U.S. OPEN
August 29, 2016
Gael Monfils
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








G. MONFILS/G. Muller
6-4, 6-2, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. So when you crashed into the wall, did you think you had hit it that hard?
GAEL MONFILS: Ah, no.  When you are in the moment you don't feel really anything.  Just jump.  I saw was a wall, but it was quite lucky.
Q. How surprised were you when it kind of came over?
GAEL MONFILS: I was surprised, because it hurt me a little bit.  You know, could be pretty bad.  Could have fallen on my ankle or calf and could be more than that.
Q. What thoughts do you have on the situation for the big four that has dominated for so many years:  Murray, Nadal, Djokovic, and Federer, where they are right now?
GAEL MONFILS: Oh, I have no idea, you know, actually, because I don't very focus about the big four you call them.  I just focus about I know all of them, and I can beat them, you know, no matter what.
So I think Roger is out for his injury, but the other ones, still tough players for sure.  Novak is still cruising again a little bit this year.  The other ones are playing tough also.  I think we all improve all the time a little way to try to beat them sometime and to actually put them in more trouble.
Q. Who do you draw most inspiration from as far as your tennis?
GAEL MONFILS: For me?  Actually like current player?
Q. Could be current or past.
GAEL MONFILS: For me, past definitely Arthur Ashe for me.  I used to watch a lot of documentary of him.  Really love his life and what he achieve.  It's him for me I look up for most of the time.
Q. You obviously have wonderful power shots with your forehand and your serve, but you're also known for your wonderful creativity, spontaneity, and different shots.  Is that one of the things that you love about your tennis that keeps you going?  Talk about that aspect.
GAEL MONFILS: You know, to be honest, I always say that is very natural, you know.  Just instinct player, you know.  And I do what I feel to do at that time.
You know, I think I played a lot of sport when I was young and still play now other sport.  Maybe have different coordination of others, so that's why sometimes it looks a little bit different.
Q. Do some of your shots sometimes surprise you?  Was there one shot in particular that you can...
GAEL MONFILS: You know, it's tough because when I'm inside, you know, I have no look, you know, by myself.  And actually when I jump or when I dive or whatever, you know, for me it's natural.
So I have no look.  Right after if someone show me, say, Shit, it was good.  (Smiling.)
Q. Coming up obviously you had really good results right up and through the Olympics, and having the Olympic experience this year and coming out to the Open.  Are you feeling good?  Are you feeling satisfied with the way you're playing coming in?
GAEL MONFILS: Yeah, I feel good, you know.  I think I have a strong first round, and obviously I know it was a little bit worries, my back a little bit.
Today I just play tough and cruised.  I'm satisfied.  Still have won a lot of matches.  No, I just feel good and hopefully going to keep going.
Q. And you take the first set, straight sets, do you feel good the way things went out there?
GAEL MONFILS: Yeah, because this one, I think it was a bit more than a first round.  I think Gilles is just out to be seeded and he's a tough player.
I feel like to win this match straight sets was I think a good effort for me, so it give me a lot of confidence.
Q. What about the possibility of playing under the roof here?  What do you think it will be like to play indoors?
GAEL MONFILS: I don't know.  I don't know.  No one ever ask me this question.  Would be cool.  Would be more electric, I guess.  I think it's gonna be more noisy.  Yeah, actually, can be a really cool experience.
Q. You had that incredible match with Federer here.  What has been the most wonderful match in your career?
GAEL MONFILS: Honestly, the first time I beat my dad.  But in the tour, I always say when I lost to Lleyton Hewitt in 2004 in Bercy.  I lost 6-3, 7-6.  For me, it was the best match I ever play so far.
Q. When you're in the zone, you know that expression, in the zone, playing your best, how would you describe that feeling?
GAEL MONFILS: I can't, because I will do it every time.  I can't, because I think actually we practice, you know, to be at this zone.  You know, for the zone is like when you're in the top and you achieve anything, you can beat anyone, and no one can beat you.
Somehow, you know, I think maybe Novak is the one can say it most because he's not losing a lot.
But me, I can't I tell you.  I know it's a great feeling, but never happen a lot in the season, when you're in the zone, what, a match, two matches maximum?  But when you're in the zone it's very rare to have this sensation.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT