ROGERS CUP
July 30, 2016
Gael Monfils
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








N. DJOKOVIC/G. Monfils
6-3, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You started off the match really strongly, break points in the first game, he broke in the third.  What changed after that point?
GAËL MONFILS: I guess he start missing a little bit at the start.  He was missing a little bit.  I think I got some opportunities and I took them.
And then suddenly I think he didn't miss -- he was not missing.  He was going for his shot and being much better in the rallies.
Yeah, suddenly being not even solid but super solid.  When Novak is playing like that, it's very tough to beat him.
Q. Knowing that you have never beaten Novak in 11 career meetings, when you get down like that, how difficult is it to sort of get the energy to get back into a match when you have had opportunities early on and then it's hard to get back into it?
GAËL MONFILS: You know, I try to just focus on myself, try to, you know, change, as I say, my game plan, what I had.  I try to go to the net a little bit more, you know.  Try to -- no matter what, stay solid and believe, you know, still believe.  It's not because I'm down.  Even I know he's world No. 1, never beat him, but I still believe I can beat him somehow.
You know, you still believe that you can turn something, you know, and just have to keep believe.
Q. You have been playing some of your best tennis, but you have also been playing a lot of tennis.  I'm wondering a couple of things.  Did fatigue at all enter into the picture?  How did Novak turn the tables on you so quickly?
GAËL MONFILS: Yeah.  For sure I'm not fresh, you know, like two weeks ago.  That's for sure.
Is even more than that, you know.  It's like I train hard to get back, because people think I only play Washington, but it's a little work before Washington to get back.  So a lot of playing moments and play well, play a couple great matches here, as well.  For sure it's tougher, you know, but it's part of the job.
You know, I'm lucky.  I get some few pains but hopefully not major.  But, you know, you learn even when you are tired like this.  Big match like this, you learn.  And that's great lesson for me for the next time I will play against him again.
Q. You have still had a really great last two weeks.  Does this kind of play give you confidence heading into the rest of the hard court season?
GAËL MONFILS: You know, I think people are very focused about my last two weeks, but I played good, you know, before.  So, you know, I think quarters, quarters, final, but, you know, I had this confidence.  I had always said it has been from the start of the year I play good.  I think I got a lot of confidence.
As I say, I'm on the same road.  So I hope to recover and be strong for the next one.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT