MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 13, 2016
Gael Monfils
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








G. MONFILS/P. Lorenzi
6-2, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. You did the job.
GAEL MONFILS: Well, I played him in Vienna already and I knew it would be a physical combat.  On clay I expected something like that because his game is very good on clay.  He knows the angles.  He covers the court.  I was feeling good.
I believe I played well.  As soon as I was getting less intense, he was immediately stepping up.  I knew I had to maintain this intensity for the whole match.
Q. You never look at your draw, but when you went onto the court, did you know Novak had lost?
GAEL MONFILS: Yes, I was told.  They told me just before.
Q. Can you immediately focus on your own match after hearing something like that?
GAEL MONFILS: I'll tell you the truth.  You never look ahead because that means you are underestimating your present opponent.  So I didn't think about that.
I saw that Tomas had difficulties.  I heard about Novak.  On the contrary, I thought I will need to be even more solid from the start so I can show my opponent immediately that I will not give him any room.
Q. How can you explain Novak's defeat?
GAEL MONFILS: I don't know.  I didn't see the match.  I can't say.  I believe Jiri played a good match.  I'm sure he did.  I couldn't tell you.  I didn't see the match.  But I know Jiri serves well.  I know he hits hard.  He doesn't move that well.  I believe today he had an opportunity to find the way of beating Novak.  But I know Jiri is a very dangerous player.  I played him already.
Q. He said before this victory today that winning against you was his best victory.
GAEL MONFILS: It was in three sets.  He's not easy to play.  He serves very well.  He's a left-handed player, too.  He's an aggressive player.  You need to make him run.  He's quite big, so you have to make him move around a lot.
What will happen tomorrow might be more complicated because he just beat the No. 1 in the world.  In that case he must feel very confident and he must be boosted by this victory.  I'll have to be very good during the whole match.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT