AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 27, 2016
Gael Monfils
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. RAONIC/G. Monfils   
6-3, 3-6, 6-3, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What are your thoughts on that match?  
GAEL MONFILS: It was a tough one because I think Milos really serve good.  Not even only first serve, but in second serve as well.  I think his second serve was very hard to return, and today was very hard for me to pick a good corner to make him actually play one more shot.   
Then after, as I say, he improve a lot from the baseline, hitting big both sides.  Even the backhand.  You know, sometime couple shank, but have pretty good ones, lines, in the big moments.   
Was very frustrating because just for break every time on each set.  I feel that I been a little bit maybe over-rushing some time my serve, my second serve.  Should maybe serve half speed, and the first serve to put the ball in a good placement to have a chance to play at the baseline.   
I think, yeah, he played good.  Very aggressive.  But was not a bad match from me.  Happy I been improving for to play him next time.   
 Q.  How do you summarize the tournament given it's your best performance here?  How do you leave Melbourne feeling?  
GAEL MONFILS: Yeah, it was a tournament I won couple matches and was good.  Was good tennis.  Was good, I would say good focus.  Good quality in the mind.   
So I was happy with all of those wins.   
 Q.  Why do you feel that it clicked for you this fortnight?  
GAEL MONFILS: You know, I have no idea, and it's fine.   
 Q.  Does it give you great confidence for the rest of the season?  
GAEL MONFILS: Yeah.  I think I start great my season, you know.  I think I show quality, strength on this tournament, and I have a strong belief that I will keep going this season like this.   
 Q.  Do you get the sense that Milos has stepped up a level a bit in his game?  You mentioned some improvements.  
GAEL MONFILS: Yeah, definitely.  You know, I think he's returning much better.  He's playing a bit faster from the baseline.  Yeah, I think the main improvement is his return.  His return are way better than before.   
He strike the ball heavy with forehand, but I would say now his backhand getting much better.  So he's a tougher player now.   
 Q.  Do you get the sense that perhaps we'll be seeing him more often in the latter stages of the slams?  
GAEL MONFILS: Well, I guess he was No.4 in the world, which would mean he's a top quality player, top-10 player definitely.   
I think he was hurt last year, but he was in the top 10 for a while.  So definitely, yeah, you will see Milos very often far in the slam, yeah.   
 Q.  Is your hand bothering you tonight?  
GAEL MONFILS: Not really.  I just have to strap it, but not really.   
 Q.  You didn't seem as fired up and excited as you have been on court at stages tonight.  Was that just I guess you found it hard to get into the match?  
GAEL MONFILS: Well, not really.  You know, I was good.  I was good.  You know, I just was happy.  I was focus.  My play my match each point.   
No, I feel great.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT