AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 25, 2016
Gael Monfils
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. MONFILS/A. Kuznetsov   
7-5, 3-6, 6-3, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How do you feel about making your first quarterfinals here in Melbourne?  
GAEL MONFILS: I feel good.  I feel good.   
 Q.  How did the match go for you?  
GAEL MONFILS: It was tough.  You know, it was tough.  I think I knew pretty much he will come and step in, try to play very fast.  That's what he did.  I was a bit nervous so I could not hit through him for a while.  Then suddenly I think I serve a bit better and I put more pressure.  I grabbed the first set.   
Unlucky I felt in the second.  I lost a bit the momentum because at this period I thought I had him.  It was a bit tough for me to grip my racquet.  Then it was a bit tougher to play.   
He had a good second set.  Then I think I serve pretty good, try to focus on my first shot after the serve.  Till the end, you know, I was fighting.  I think he give me a good fight, so I was happy to come through.   
 Q.  How do you explain not being able to do as well in this slam as you have in a couple of the others?  Do you feel any differently coming to this one?  
GAEL MONFILS: It's a good question, and I have no answer for this question.   
 Q.  When you make shots like the dive that you did today, how painful was that?  
GAEL MONFILS: It's very painful.  I cannot even grip anything right now.  I have a deep cut.  That's nothing.  But I have a bruise.  I'm lucky to do not have fracture.  During the point, I feel that I can have it.  So I just do it because I think I have the ability to do it.   
But you know, I'm not a rock.   
 Q.  Do you ever regret doing something like that?  
GAEL MONFILS: No, never.   
 Q.  Do your coaches or anyone throughout your career tell you not to do these things?  
GAEL MONFILS: I mean, I will do it.  It's like instinct.  Like some soccer player, I don't know how to say it in English, but they jump and they do it.  It's just natural.   
I always say, people think is like why I will throw myself to the floor for nothing.  I do it because I know I can do it.  That the only thing.  People need to understand that if I dive, it's because I know I can dive.  That's it.   
 Q.  Do you ever practice diving?  
GAEL MONFILS: I told you why I will throw myself to the ground, for what reason.  There is no practice.  Is instinct.   
 Q.  Talk about your possible next opponents.  
GAEL MONFILS: Both are going to be a tough one.  If we start with Milos, Milos is in good form.  Coming in with a win in Brisbane.  As we know, a big serve.  Actually I think also a little bit he improve a lot his movement, hitting big from the baseline, a good return.   
It's going to be interesting to see with what I going to come up with.   
And Stan, yeah, Stan the Man.  Beautiful backhand, good serve.  We know he can play, like, forever on the court.  Have a big heart.  Especially loves playing here.  Is going to be a really tough one, as well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT