AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 25, 2020
Gael Monfils
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








G. MONFILS/E. Gulbis
7-6, 6-4, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Into the fourth round. How do you feel you're progressing?
GAEL MONFILS: Yeah, I feel good, no? I'm in good shape. As I say, I was very confident before I be here at a Grand Slam. I play quarters, so I was confident on my performance.
So I'm happy to be in the second week again.
Q. You have always enjoyed coming here and fans of yours enjoy watching you play. What is it about Melbourne that you enjoy playing here?
GAEL MONFILS: Quite long I liked it here, summer, people, always a great spirit. Used to work with Roger Rasheed, so I had a bit more time here during the offseason. Yeah, I just feel great.
Q. How about your hand? You're obviously building to 100% fitness in the tournament. Do you feel like you're getting close to 100% fitness?
GAEL MONFILS: Yeah, my fitness is good. I would say I move good. You know, somehow my hand -- as I say, it's misunderstanding with people, because it's obviously -- I say this in a funny way, to be honest, but it's a disgrace, to be honest with you, because I'm fine. I'm in second week, playing great tennis.
I think it's just someone who, I don't know, try to -- you know, I played ATP Cup, was fine. I practiced here for one month. I was really fine.
I never said I was hurt. Somehow, you know, playing PlayStation, this? Come on. And it's easy, because I think I'm a good name to make up good story like that.
Now you know.
Q. Upcoming match, Dominic Thiem potentially, can you give us a word on each of those potentially?
GAEL MONFILS: Both would be very tough. If I start with Taylor, he beat me last year here. Young player, coming strong. Obviously it's gonna be a rematch if I play against him.
And Dominic, he beat me most of the time we play. Always tricky and improve a lot on hard court. I think he's playing great at the moment. So, you know, I just have to be myself, try to figure out with my coach a good way to beat him.
As I just told you before, I feel fine physically, so that will help, you know. I think it's a challenge that I will have to face.
Q. What are your goals with your tennis going forward?
GAEL MONFILS: I love the game. You know, I love the game. I love waking up every morning with the goal to win for the first time a slam.
I love to play big matches. I think it's, yeah, it's that keep me, keep the fire in me, keep myself on alert. And also still I have a strong belief I can make it.
Q. You think you can win a slam?
GAEL MONFILS: Yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT