U.S. OPEN
September 4, 2014
Gael Monfils
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  R. FEDERER/G. Monfils4-6, 3-6, 6-4, 7-5, 6-2THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. What were your thoughts and emotions when you had the two match points?GAEL MONFILS: You know, nothing special, you know.  I was like saying to myself, Keep it simple, you know, and try to make him play them.  Because I knew that he will force it, like he will put the first ball in and then for sure come to the net very quick. So it was more like, you know, I be relax and just lean a bit more on my forehand return and try to make it. And then we just played those two points, and, you know, well done.Q. How would you describe what happened from then on?GAEL MONFILS: Well, then it was tough, because I think then my serve was not good, so it let me a bit down again at 5-All.  I think maybe I hit a double fault.  I think I had a point for 6-5 and could not really quite use my serve. I think the side I was was tougher because it was against the wind, so it was a bit tougher.  Then rush me with his long return, so it was very tough. But then he play good.  He played good.  He had the set.  Then physically I had a drop, five minutes.  But maybe come from mentally also, because I thought that I could have play better this fourth set.  For five minutes I think I had -- I was a little bit, yeah, tired and mentally also tired. So then it came quick.  I think then he start to be very offensive.  So then it was very tough to handle it.Q. You were saying yesterday that you wanted to try to keep your head clear, and I'm quoting you, not give a shit.  But do you think maybe after the two match points you maybe gave a shit, if you will?  Maybe he got into your head?GAEL MONFILS: Not really, because actually, you know, it happens.  When you have match point and I had easy forehand, maybe that.  But I think was cool.  I think he hit two big serves and good forehand volley and then good forehand down the line. I think, you know, I did my best, so it was okay.  Then I think, you know, what happened in the fifth is more that during the match I was focused like from the first point to the fifth, and then sort of I have a little drop.  Because I will say not really used to do this.  Sometimes, as I told to you, to keep my emotion is fatigue me a little bit.  It's tough to handle it. And then it's a matter of five minutes.  You know, I think I was down five minutes.  Roger just jump on me.  He could easy.  I don't know, maybe be relax for those first two games and then maybe it would be another story.  Those two games came like so quick, and then, you know, it's tough.Q. You were saying also talking about being able to tell your grandchildren that you played against perhaps the greatest player of all time.  Speaking reverentially about him.  You took the first two sets from him and made it a hell of a match out there.  Do you take a lot of positives away from tonight?GAEL MONFILS: Yeah, for sure, you know.  I think, as you said, I come strong.  I played good, you know.  I was stick to my tactic, you know.  I was happy that I could do it.  I was happy that also -- you know, sometime when you want to do good, it's tough to deliver, and I think did. So I was happy.  You know, I was expecting a big crowd like this.  At the end I'm frustrated, but I'm happy, you know.  I think I gave my best.  Simply Roger was too good at the end.  You know, it's okay.  I need a bit of time to forget this, but then, you know, it give me more motivation, you know, that, you know, I could make it.  I think it's very positive.Q. How does this tournament and this summer, how does this help moving forward?  How do you sort of sustain this form?GAEL MONFILS: As I say, you know, it's tough, because this summer I think been very tough for me.  I was very close the all the matches, you know.  Novak twice, Roger.  You know, it just show me that I'm not far.  I need to keep believe on myself, keep believe that I can do better. I see that I can play a high level for months, and, you know, the best part on that is more that I not get injured.  That's the best part.  It's been a while I play high level like with 100% healthy. So, you know, I'm more than happy for that.Q. Do you think you have more clarity in your mind without a coach?GAEL MONFILS: You know, it's been a year and a half I have no coach, so for me it's okay, you know.  I guess used to no coach.  This question now is bored.  I have no coach, yes, but it's fine.  I try to have one, as I say, but is no more credit or not.  It's like, I have no coach.  I do it, you know.  If I have to play with no coach, I play with no coach.  It's simple.Q. As I said, Roger, his legacy is unrivaled.  It seemed to me like the crowd out there was equally for you.  I don't know, did you feel that way?GAEL MONFILS: Not really.  I think they have been cheering more for Roger.  Then, you know, it's -- it was for sure. And then suddenly, you know, I feel it more that, because through the second set and then he start to say some come ons and he start to put pressure on me a little bit more.  Then the come forward more and more, and I think he needed the crowd and the crowd stuck with him.Q. The other day you said would you tell your children about the opportunity you had tonight.GAEL MONFILS: Yeah.Q. What do you think now you're tell your children about what happened?GAEL MONFILS: I will tell them like, Dad had a very good opportunity and he did well.  He did well. I think he believe.  You know, it's like so far, but he did believe, and that's positive.  I will say that's positive and I will make sure that my children will win this one.Q. You really were in control of the match.  You outplayed him the first two sets, no question about it.  Then he just finds that extra gear and hangs on, you know, and obviously gets to the fifth set.  I mean, you know, as the guy on the other side of the court, what does it feel like when all of a sudden Roger Federer becomes the Roger Federer that we all know and that he clearly played better as the match went on?GAEL MONFILS: You know, at the beginning I feel good, because when you have a tactic or plan, a game plan, stick with.  That's why he's Roger Federer, because he change so many times.  He start with chipping very low.  I think I handled it good. So then he stick with longer points.  It was 50-50, and then he try to come to the net like very often.  It was a bit better for him.  Then suddenly he start to mix everything.  You know, that's why he's the greatest player, because he can do everything. You know, he just feel good.  The answer is he feel good. Now the last part is, you know, like I need to find a way that I be answering.  Every time he do something, I will answer. At the end, as I told you, I think I will keep working, believe in myself, and I will find it.Q. Will you look at this as Roger took this away from you?GAEL MONFILS: Well, he did, because I think he took the opportunity.  Like, you know, I think that's a good example, you know, because he had match point, he come forward, you know, he never is tired. I think I, yeah, he took it.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT