3 IRISH OPEN
July 30, 2010
Darren Clarke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 6-under par, going well. 
 DARREN CLARKE: Yeah, a little bit frustrated today. I hit my tee shot on the first, I flushed it over the corner and hit the single tree there and finished right behind it. I had to chip out sideways and that set the tone for the day. I battled on, battled on. 

 Q. Was it tough out there?
 DARREN CLARKE: Tricky more than tough. The breeze picked up in the middle of the round rebound the rain was persistent, but no, it was tricky more than tough. 
 Nice to make three on the last. Had a good tee shot. Just didn't turn like I thought it would do and I was good to make three out of the bunker.

 Q. 12-under, Ross Fisher, extraordinary round, but you're still in the hunt. 
 DARREN CLARKE: Yeah, obviously Ross has played very, very well today and that's an incredible score around here and he's a great player. But you know, still another 36 holes to go, and there's a bunch of players obviously there on 7-under all trying to catch him and a bunch of players on 6-under. Just go out and play at the weekend and hopefully get a little bit of momentum back again. 

 Q. Harder work than yesterday? 
 DARREN CLARKE: Yeah, I got off to -- I didn't get off to a great start. I had what I thought was a perfect tee shot on 1 over the corner, hit the tree and dropped down right behind it, the only tree there, and made a bogey from there and lost momentum, didn't really get anything going after that, so it was a tough day grinding it out and it was nice to make birdie on the last.

 Q. A number of putts left short over the closing holes; were you more tentative? 
 DARREN CLARKE: Not at all. I just lost my pace on the greens and that was the story of the whole day, not just the last couple of holes. I left so many putts in the jaws short today, I struggled with the pace of the greens and when we got the rain on top of it as well they slowed up a bit more and I didn't adapt.

 Q. From what you saw of Ross Fisher this morning, and the earlier starters, did they definitely have the better of the draw?
 DARREN CLARKE: I don't know. You always get good draws and bad draws, but obviously, you know, they usually end up pretty fair. But Ross has shot 61, that's an incredible score and doesn't make any difference what the weather is.

 Q. If you take Ross out of the tournament, it's a very bunched leaderboard, you're six adrift of Ross, but only two off second place. 
 DARREN CLARKE: Obviously we can't take Ross out of the tournament but I was hoping for a bit better today. But I made a really nice birdie on the last hole out of the fairway bunker to go into the weekend, so I'm playing good enough. As I say, I just lost the pace on the greens today.

 Q. Pin placements today, what more do you think they can do with them Saturday and Sunday, because at times they seemed to be one of the few defences?
 DARREN CLARKE: I don't think they need to do. Just let the course play the way it is and let the guys play. With evident so many spectators coming in to watch, and if they are out there watching Ross Fisher shoot 61, brilliant, that doesn't happen too often. Just keep preparing the golf course the way they have done. It's fantastic what they have done so far, let's just hope for more they can see. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT