OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 4, 2010
Darren Clarke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. A little disappointed I'm sure to bogey the last, but overall how pleased are you with a round under par?  
 DARREN CLARKE: Yeah, I played really nicely today. I had the ball under control nearly all day, gave myself lot of opportunities and was very patient and obviously still very disappointed at the last. I hit a great drive and flagged my second shot and got it wrong. Still no excuse to miss from three-foot, but overall a good score.  
 We knew the forecast for this week was going to be breezy, and it's going to be breezy tomorrow and on Saturday. So overall, if you're playing the way I did today, I'm pretty pleased.  
  
  Q. How much is the ball being affected on the greens by the wins?  
 DARREN CLARKE: It's oscillating. It's not moving but it's oscillating. There are a few greens out there that are slightly more exposed than others. So you know, just have to be careful and pick your line and hit it. But it's certainly very tough out there, as you can see from the scoring. It's a stern test when the wind is as strong as it is.  
  
  Q. Are you having to factor the wind into the putts?   
 DARREN CLARKE: Yeah, a few of them. A few of them it definitely affects, especially with the greens as well as they are, are a little bit grainier this year than they have been in the past.  
 So you have a bit of breeze and get it going on the green, as well, it's going to move a little bit more. I have to make a little bit of adjustments for that.  
  
  Q. A second already; how are you feeling about your game and the season coming?   
 DARREN CLARKE: Yeah, I feel pretty good with my game at the moment. I'm swinging well and I'm hitting the ball pretty well.   
 Like anybody, I wish I was just putting a little bit better. I hit a lot of greens today and gave myself a lot of chances but it's a tough day and everybody is going to miss putts, but I had a lot of chances. I'm feeling good about my game and I'm excited and looking forward to it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT