ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 4, 2009
Darren Clarke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. A little frustrating to 3-putt the last but lowest score of the week, overall, happy? 
 DARREN CLARKE: Yeah, reasonably. I 3-putted 11, and that's never nice. I tried to cut a 9-iron in and left myself a tough 2-putt. But I played really well today again and gave myself lots of chances but a little bit disappointed.

 Q. Any sense coming into this week it would be a special one?
 DARREN CLARKE: No, I've been hitting the ball like this for quite some time. And I'm still not holing putts, you know, just hitting a lot of par 5s and giving myself chances. But most of my birdies have been close. 
 Happy with the way I've been swinging but haven't been able to turn those into scores. But this week I'm getting a little bit back. 

 Q. 79 to Race to Dubai? 
 DARREN CLARKE: Well, it's more Ryder Cup points than anything else. Race to Dubai, obviously is one of our biggest tournaments on The European Tour but I want to try to get myself back up The Ryder Cup rankings again, backup the World Rankings. If I keep playing well the next few weeks and get myself up there, then hopefully that will take care of The Race to Dubai.

 Q. Rory currently top of the board, good to play with him tomorrow?
 DARREN CLARKE: Would have been if I had not 3-putted the last but I don't think there will be a chance now. Rory has obviously had a great year and it's pretty well documented I've known him for a long time, and I'm not surprised at all with the way he's played this year. He's just going to get better and better. 

 Q. Relish the chance of playing with Rory coming up the last? 
 DARREN CLARKE: Not particularly, just trying to give myself another birdie. 

 Q. What age was he when you first played with him?
 DARREN CLARKE: I don't know. 12 maybe. No, I don't want to go back to all that carry on again. Been there and done it before. 

 Q. The occasion was? 
 DARREN CLARKE: I can't remember. 

 Q. At home?
 DARREN CLARKE: Yeah, somewhere at home in Northern Ireland.

 Q. Do you remember the last time you played with him in tournament competition? 
 DARREN CLARKE: No. We've had a couple of little gambling games, myself and Mr. Westwood against Rory and Graeme. 

 Q. You've only played him in practise?
 DARREN CLARKE: I can't remember. I'm getting older and he's younger. I can't remember. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT