ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 1, 2009
Darren Clarke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How good was that?
 DARREN CLARKE: I played nicely today. Gave a silly shot away on No. 8 and 3-putted from 30 feet away. Left the first one four feet short and made a poor second putt and missed it.
 Overall hit 16 greens and gave myself a lot of chances, so 68 is a pretty good score. 

 Q. Saw you working on the putting green yesterday, lengthening your backswing for the greens here; any difference today? 
 DARREN CLARKE: Yeah, I didn't hole one nice one on No. 6, but apart from that, I kept hitting good putts and just couldn't quite get the pace. But that's just trying to lengthen my backswing; that's going to take a little bit of time. But felt good for most of the day.

 Q. Out there with Chubby and the Lee?
 DARREN CLARKE: Lee was having a slightly off-day with him so we had to be a bit careful with how much schtick we were giving each other. Usually it's me going off and he's giving me lots of schtick so I just kept quiet. 

 Q. Atmosphere is a bit different. 
 DARREN CLARKE: It is a bit different. It's a bit of fun and sometimes the play can be a little bit slow, but you come here and you say that's the way it is. It's good fun and good atmosphere everywhere we go.

 Q. You are renowned for your ball striking and your ability to control the ball in the wind; would you like to see a breeze the rest of the week?
 DARREN CLARKE: Well, I don't think I've got much of an option. I believe it's coming so that's not down to me. I believe it is going to blow a little bit, very strong on Saturday I believe. We shall see. Conditions are going to definitely get much tougher. 

 Q. What do you say to those who are going to face this in the 40-mile-an-hour wind?
 DARREN CLARKE: Thankfully we were here today. 

 Q. That much of a difference, is it? 
 DARREN CLARKE: Well, if you take a look at the three courses, anything can happen. But if you take a look at the three courses the one you don't want to be on with the brutal conditions is this one. I think we all know that, you guys included. Stating the obvious, really. 

 Q. You're closer to putting --
 DARREN CLARKE: I hit a lot of good putts. I just didn't make anything. I think I had -- what did I have today, 32 putts for 4-under. But that's just the way it is. I'm playing, I keep telling you, I'm playing nicely. You don't hit 16 greens around here unless you're playing pretty well. 
 I hit driver, 7-iron on to the green to about 20 feet. 

 Q. Good and bad memories here; have you had nightmares around this place at all? 
 DARREN CLARKE: I think, what year was it, the year Paul Lawrie won, Carnoustie was brutal, and the other year, did Woosie win? I played that year. 
 Yeah, it can be brutal this place, brutal. 

 Q. Lee's problems? 
 DARREN CLARKE: Everybody has an off day, everybody does; and he just wasn't quite where he usually at. 

 Q. What would it mean to you to win this on Sunday? I know it's a long way off. 
 DARREN CLARKE: It's a long way off. I don't know, I'd love to win anywhere. I've had a very frustrating year so far, obviously, but I'd love to win anywhere. Yes, it would be very nice. 

 Q. And to win at St. Andrews? 
 DARREN CLARKE: Most definitely, yes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT