THE EUROPEAN OPEN
July 3, 2008
Darren Clarke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What happened after the great start?   
 DARREN CLARKE: Missed a 3-footer for par on whatever hole it was and just lost my way a little bit and couldn't get it on the fairway. And with the rough the way it is, tough to keep on greens and paid the penalty for a few wayward tee shots.  
  
  Q. Great back nine?  
 DARREN CLARKE: Yeah, I hit it really well. I was pleased I was able to do that after a frustrating time at Sunningdale; to get a couple back again was pretty good.   
  
  Q. How disappointed were you missing the Qualifying?  
 DARREN CLARKE: Desperately disappointing. I said that at the time, not just missing, but playing the way I played around a course that I know so well. But that's the way it is and I've got to do as best I can now and hopefully try and sneak in another next week.   
  
  Q. Anything that stands out from the second nine?   
 DARREN CLARKE: No. I had lots of chances.   
 I'm a broken record, that's the way I played. You wouldn't have thought it if you'd seen me in the middle of the back nine but that's just the way I've been playing all year.   
 I got a putting tip last night at six o'clock from Pete Cowen because he was with me for years and years and knows me as well as anybody and gave me a few suggestions and striking the putts has been the best it's been in a long time. A few went in and a few didn't, but better than none going in, so that's all right.   
  
  Q. The par 5, eighth hole?   
 DARREN CLARKE: Yeah, just trickled over, a horrific lie. And missed it on the last, as well.   
  
  Q. So you're not concerned about your putting?  
 DARREN CLARKE: Well, last night, the couple of tips that Pete gave me was certainly that my strike has improved.   
  
  Q. You have to be happy with your long game.   
 DARREN CLARKE: Yes.   
 Pete was with me, and with all of the stats and stuff, that's when I putted my best, but I tried to go back to a few things and misinterpreted and Pete put it straight.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT