THE RYDER CUP MATCHES
September 24, 2006
Darren Clarke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
Darren, it's nice to see a smile.  I bet you're glad you came?
DARREN CLARKE:  Yeah, you could say that.  I mean, this is just, for us, for Europeans, this is just as good as it gets.  And for the Irish, just fantastic.
Q.  What are the special memories you'll take away from this week?
DARREN CLARKE:  I've got too many to list.  To be here all week, my team have been unbelievable.  The American guys have just been the support that they have shown me, and their wives, has just been incredible.  And the crowd on Friday morning will be something I cherish forever.
Q.  How much has being part of this particular team done for you?
DARREN CLARKE:  It's done a lot for me.  It's done a lot for people to show me how much they care and how much they care about me.  It's done a lot to show that they cared about Heather, and that means everything.
Q.  Apart from anything else, you've played some wonderful golf this week, haven't you?
DARREN CLARKE:  I can play sometimes, not all the time, just now and again.

You know, it's been a difficult week, but from the minute I got here, from the minute I made myself available, I was determined to get myself ready, and I was.  I got myself ready, and I played hopefully the way Woosie wanted me to.
Q.  Can you believe the size of what it looks like the size is what this victory is going to be?
DARREN CLARKE:  I don't know what it's going to be.  I was trying to keep my emotions in check around the front nine.  Woosie told us it's one game at a time, and it's nice to look at the board and see these numbers, but at the same time I was trying to concentrate on my game.
Q.  Your captain took a little bit of a stick coming up to the matches.  What kind of a captain has he been?
DARREN CLARKE:  He's been a wonderful captain, wonderfully supportive to me and to all the team, and I think you look at the scoreboard and that says everything about Woosie as a captain.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT