BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 15, 2006
Darren Clarke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GORDON SIMPSON:  You've had some titanic tussles with Thomas and looks like it will be another one tomorrow.  Are you up for a rematch?
DARREN CLARKE:  As you guys know we're very good friends.  I'd certainly like to be four or five ahead like I could have been, as opposed to tied for the lead.  But we'll have a bit of fun.
GORDON SIMPSON:  Thomas just got it at the Irish; a nice chance to get it back?
DARREN CLARKE:  I made a few mistakes there on the way in and he played very well the last couple of holes and managed to win.  You know, we're only two ahead of a group of guys, so it's not just us.  Whoever wins tomorrow, if it is one of us, we're it's going to have to play very well again.
GORDON SIMPSON:  Did you miss a chance to put some daylight between you and the rest?
DARREN CLARKE:  Most definitely.  Today I had a lot of chances on the front nine today and didn't take them.  Had a couple poor swings again toward the end of the round and it cost me again.
Q.  Did the jet ski rider put you off at the 7th?
DARREN CLARKE:  I would love to say it was, but it wasn't that bad.  He was having a little bit of fun, let him have a bit of fun, doesn't bother me at all.
Q.  Did you shout at him?
DARREN CLARKE:  No, I was fine.  He's enjoying the weather as much as we were.
Q.  Inaudible?
DARREN CLARKE:  I've had lots of chances.  I had them all over the place on front nine, but just missed everything basically and when I did make a couple of poor swings, because I wasn't    a little extra pressure and tried to chip it and didn't quite do that either.  So I made a few bogeys coming in.
Q.  When you haven't won in a long time, do you say to yourself it's time to win again?
DARREN CLARKE:  When is the last time I won?  November
Q.  Yes, but it's been a while on this Tour?
DARREN CLARKE:  Good effort.  Good effort.  We all do.  We all want to win.  We all want to put ourselves in a position to win and give ourselves an opportunity to win and I managed to do that by hook or by crook a few times this year and I have managed to do it.
Q.  Do you think of the prizemoney for second, third or fourth?
DARREN CLARKE:  No.  Winning.  Winning.  Winning is all that's important to me.
Q.  Inaudible?
DARREN CLARKE:  No, I'll just go out and play and see how I get on.  If I give myself a chance to win, great.  And if I don't, I'll probably be a little bit annoyed again but carry on.
Q.  Does it help you to play with Thomas? Make you more relaxed?
DARREN CLARKE:  I don't know, doesn't make any difference how he plays.  At the end of the day, it's an individual game so doesn't really make any difference.  He'll be trying to beat me as much as I'm trying to beat him.
Q.  Is it a case of trying for revenge for the Irish?
DARREN CLARKE:  No.  That was my own mistake.  That wasn't    that wasn't me handing the tournament to Thomas.  You know, I had the lead, I was playing okay and I bogeyed two of the last three holes.  That was my mistake and it happened to be Thomas that won.
Q.  Are you hitting it well enough to contend in Hoylake?
DARREN CLARKE:  Some days yes, some days no.  The majority of it this week, yes.  But sometimes it just    I can't quite get it with my putter that I've had.  Some of this year I've been struggling a little bit on the greens and if you don't master them on a consistent basis, it's tough to do that.

Swing wise, I am improving.  I'm hitting it reasonably well.
Q.  Harder than when you played a Pro-Celebrity event there?
DARREN CLARKE:  I would imagine so.  Four weeks ago or five weeks ago, and the rough wasn't up much.  I'm sure they will grow it up a lot more.
Q.  Billy, your caddie, was helping with reading the lines?
DARREN CLARKE:  After today's performance, I think he'll be watching from the side.  I can misread them myself tomorrow.  I don't need his help to help me misread them.  But I know what you mean.  He has been helping me but we both had a bad day.
Q.  You let him go once b efore?
DARREN CLARKE:  I give him a little bit of time off.  Not for long.  You know, Billy's a very good player himself and he knows the way I like to putt.  I don't tend to dribble them into the hole and I don't tend to bang them in.  He's used to reading greens.  We were both a little bit off.  He may have a chance on the first or second, if not, he'll be off for the day, red card.
GORDON SIMPSON:  Promises to be a great showdown tomorrow.  Well played today and good luck tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT