BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 13, 2006
Darren Clarke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








GORDON SIMPSON:  Barclays sponsor, Barclays tournament, Barclays leader; not a bad start for Thursday morning.
DARREN CLARKE:  Hopefully keep them happy anyway.
GORDON SIMPSON:  Does it keep you happy, though?
DARREN CLARKE:  Yeah, I hit it sort of the same as last week.  I hit quite a few good shots, a few poor ones, but overall I was happy.
GORDON SIMPSON:  The form you showed last week seems to be continuing, just the last day.
DARREN CLARKE:  I'm close to playing okay but I'm just not quite there.  Mentally I'm just not quite there, making a few silly mistakes.  My Sunday scoring average this year in the tournaments I have played is very, very high which is totally out of character for me.  That bit's been disappointing.  As you know, I have a few reasons why that's happening.  But to keep on playing like I did today, hopefully get better this one.
Q.  Inaudible?
DARREN CLARKE:  I'm not really.  I might appear that way.
GORDON SIMPSON:  The trophy that Darren won last week is going up for auction today.
DARREN CLARKE:  Yeah, you know what happened, the Shot of the Month thing is going up for charity auction and it's charity for breast cancer.  And hopefully somebody will like to have it and pay quite a bit of money because it's going through a very good cause.  It's through the Web site, both DarrenClarke.com and europeantour.com.
Q.  Inaudible?
DARREN CLARKE:  Haven't really got any.  You're asking the wrong person.  I think I'm on autopilot at the moment.  I'm on autopilot and then come Sunday maybe I'll I try that little bit harder and maybe because I'm trying it force it a little bit harder I'm just not able to; I think, I don't know.
Q.  Inaudible?
DARREN CLARKE:  I was particularly disappointed last Sunday, leading at The K Club.  Obviously that's at home and I've played well.  I've won there and I had a chance again and I didn't perform.  I got home Sunday night, and I had about 25 minutes sleep on Sunday night, I was so annoyed with myself.

When I got up the next morning, disappeared a little bit.  I'm still not the easiest person in the world whenever I don't play well.  There's other things that are much more important but, you know, sometimes can't help yourself.
Q.  Inaudible?
DARREN CLARKE:  No, he played really, really nice.  It's the fact that I didn't perform at all.
Q.  Inaudible?
DARREN CLARKE:  Yeah, there were, but you know just made it that little bit worse because I didn't perform again.  I can have all the excuses and all the reasons why, but still there's a lot of disappointment when I do play poorly, and unfortunately there's been quite a few Sundays this year where I've done that.
Q.  Did you break anything or kick anything?
DARREN CLARKE:  Did I break anything or kick anything?  No, I didn't.  (Laughter).
Q.  Inaudible?
DARREN CLARKE:  Well, how I've performed and a few other different things.
Q.  Can you go through your birdies?
DARREN CLARKE:  10 was my first, I hit driver, 7 iron to six feet.

The par 5 I hit a good tee shot, 3 wood, five yards short of the green, putted it up, six foot past, holed it.

15, I pulled my tee shot in the left, only poor tee shot I hit all day.  I had a so so lie there, came out short left in the rough, pitched it 20 feet past from 40 yards and horseshoed it out.

Then 1, I hit driver, little pitching wedge to six inches.

Second, I hit driver, 6 iron to 20 feet.

Third, I hit driver, 5 wood just over the back left.  Chipped it back left it ten feet short, knocked it in.

The par 3, I hit a little 6 iron to six feet.
Q.  Inaudible?
DARREN CLARKE:  Yeah, I think it hit someone hit the tree and waited.  So it was very kind, especially on that hole, you don't want to stand on that tee too long.
GORDON SIMPSON:  Darren, thank you very much.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT