SMURFIT KAPPA EUROPEAN OPEN
July 8, 2006
Darren Clarke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Level par; that was one of the more interesting ones, wasn't it?
DARREN CLARKE:  I had some great shots and then I had some terrible shots and then I compounded my terrible shots with really poor    easy to make mistakes.
Q.  Battling away in difficult conditions?
DARREN CLARKE:  Yeah, struggled a bit with my swing, wasn't hitting the way I wanted to and it was tough out there with the wind coming in.  But I did okay.  72 is not bad.
Q.  Obviously nice to get into contention for tomorrow and potential for a home win.
DARREN CLARKE:  I'm looking forward to it.  I hope I can hit the ball a little bit better than I did today, more often than I did today.  I've got a couple of poor shots that cost me three or four shots, and that's a mixture of getting used to a couple of new things and a mixture of just not being competitively sharp.  I'm trying.
Q.  Would you prefer to be    inaudible?
DARREN CLARKE:  Most definitely.  I would love to    I would like my putting to have work a bit more and my iron shots, but I'll take whatever comes.

As I said at the start of the week, this is what I want to do, give myself a chance to compete and get into contention on Sunday.  I'm two shots behind the lead now.
Q.  Horrible day for golf but in the end you're in contention.
DARREN CLARKE:  Overall 72 is not a bad score.  I left quite a few out there but I ground it out, as I was saying yesterday, and 72 is not bad.
Q.  You're keeping your head, which you have to do in these conditions.
DARREN CLARKE:  Yeah, the easy one up the hill, 14, after just making a birdie on the hole before and I just played the hole very poorly and made bogey there.  Almost came off it but managed to cling on.  Birdied the next.  Stupid double bogey from front of the green on 16.  But gave myself a chance at the last.
Q.  You said you don't know what's going to happen, but you must be fairly close to good form.
DARREN CLARKE:  There's a lot of good shots in there.  My good shots are very good.  I've had a fantastic morning    inaudible    15 feet and 8 iron on 17, real tight flag, ten feet short of the hole.  So I made a lot of really good shots but unfortunately    not too sharp.  If it weren't for those, I'd probably be another five, six shots better off than I am at the moment but I've got to take what I'm given.
Q.  inaudible?
DARREN CLARKE:  Yeah, I'm going to have to try and win tomorrow.  I just hope I've got more good ones tomorrow than bad ones.
Q.  What about Paul McGinley's performance today?
DARREN CLARKE:  The way he played this morning was fantastic.  Paul's been working very hard on his game and it has been very frustrating for him.  Hopefully he's aware he's had a break and it's fantastic he's made the most of it.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT