SMURFIT KAPPA EUROPEAN OPEN
July 5, 2006
Darren Clarke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
How are you feeling golf-wise?
DARREN CLARKE:  Just the same old stuff. I don't have much to tell you. Playing a little bit, some good and bad as evident at the U.S. Open, but I've been practising a little bit at home so we will see. I haven't had a look at the course yet, no.

I remember the odd little bit about it last year. I think it will be much fairer this week in decent weather.
Q.  Have you spoken to Kenneth Ferrie since the Irish Open? You are playing with him.
DARREN CLARKE:  Apparently so, but no I haven't. I think he figured it out for himself and doesn't need me to say anything.
Q.  I suppose you will say you have no chance and no hope of making the cut?
DARREN CLARKE:  Exactly! I have no idea how I am going to play from week to week. I am making changes with Ewen (Murray). I've been doing that since the Irish Open and I will keep on doing what I've been doing with him and it certainly feels okay. Just a question of doing it on the golf course.
Q. You nearly won the Masters and the Irish Open. So if it ain't broke, why fix it?
DARREN CLARKE:  Nearlies don't count! It's broke enough or I would have won.
Q.  What are you working on?
DARREN CLARKE:  I am just changing my takeaway a little bit. I've been too 'handsy' or a couple of years and I am trying to take the hands out of it. My putting has been average as well, but having not played a lot of competitive golf I'm not as sharp as I should be. I haven't been playing a lot.
Q.  Your prospects?
DARREN CLARKE:  A totally honest answer - I have no idea.
Q.  Are you capable of winning it?
DARREN CLARKE:  Of course I am capable, but I don't know the answer. The weather was terrible last time, so we will see.
Q.  Ryder Cup - the European Team?
DARREN CLARKE:  I haven't looked at the risk. It's fantastic to see Padraig up there. He's playing well again and has had a couple of chances to win recently. He's knocking on the door. In terms of the Ryder Cup it's certainly fantastic to see him playing well again. We need Padraig. The team needs Padraig.
Q.  Have you taken any notice of the American team then? Zach Johnson, Vaughn Taylor, Brett Wetterich, J.J. Henry etc? Not exactly household names?
DARREN CLARKE:  No, but very good players. I know these guys can play. They may not be familiar to people over here but not to those of us that play on the PGA Tour.
Q.  Won't they have a shock in store here?
DARREN CLARKE:  I don't know. It has the possibility of difficult weather but if they qualify they will be good enough. There is no point in jumping the gun and saying that we've never heard of some of these players, because they are all very good players.
Q.  Would you like to play tomorrow?
DARREN CLARKE:  Well, if we did, I would have to get my finger out! I would love to play. I want to be part of the team. I haven't looked to see where I am on any list. I haven't had that many opportunities to play golf and it's been tough for me. I need to play well in the next three weeks.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT