SMURFIT EUROPEAN OPEN
July 1, 2005
Darren Clarke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You seem to be hobbling quite badly on your knee (right), is it anything to worry about?
DARREN CLARKE:  No no, it is just a little bit sore but I will put some ice on it tonight again and it will be fine for the morning.
Q. Is it ligaments or cartilage?
DARREN CLARKE: I'm not quite sure to be honest. It is just something at the front of my patella they have told me but I'm not quite sure. But it will be fine for tomorrow.
Q. Did it affect your swing?
DARREN CLARKE:  No I don't have a problem over the ball or hitting shots, it is just when I am walking between shots that I have a bit of a problem.
Q. You are in a good position now?
DARREN CLARKE:  Yes, I am pleased with where I am and with my score. I didn't quite expect myself to be in as good a position as I am but I played a lot better today than I did yesterday and gave myself a lot of chances and stayed very patient even when I was burning the edge of the hole a lot, but 71 is still a good score today.
Q. Does it help coming to a course where you know you can perform?
DARREN CLARKE: It is not the same golf course though. I suppose it does help a little bit but it is a much, much sterner test than it used to be and you can't get away with very much out there now.
Q. Do you think the fact the tournament next year will be played across the river, do you think that is a good or a bad idea?
DARREN CLARKE: I don't know, but I hope they have a nice time!
Q. The question still stands.
DARREN CLARKE:  It is difficult to get a venue up to scratch for a regular tournament, and certainly a Ryder Cup. If they got poor weather for the first week, then it would be very tough then to try and get the course into shape. I would assume that the guys on the verge of the team would much prefer to be playing on this golf course, but sometimes they have to take a look at the bigger picture and what has to happen to get it ready for two and a half months later.
Q. That is remarkably diplomatic.
DARREN CLARKE: Thank you very much, I'm getting older. But the first comment was spot on.
Q. Too early to think about winning this tournament?
DARREN CLARKE:  Oh, yes, I have just got to go on and try and continue what I have been doing. Coming into this week, winning wasn't really in my thought process at all and it is still not. If it happens, it happens and I will see what happens on Sunday.
Q. Are you more relaxed because of that then?
DARREN CLARKE: Probably, probably. I gave myself a lot of chances today and I don't know if you saw it on the television or not but I hit a lot of good putts which burned the edges and if they went in, they went in, and if they didn't, then so be it. I'd like to be like that all the time.
Q. Is it a calmer, cooler Darren then?
DARREN CLARKE: Well, I don't know, extenuating circumstances we'll say.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT