MCI HERITAGE
April 17, 2005
Darren Clarke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TODD BUDNICK:  We welcome Darren Clarke, runner up here at the 2005 MCI Heritage.  Darren, a very difficult day for both of you out there.  Just some comments on your round today.
DARREN CLARKE:  I got off to a great start, thought everything was going well, and just started making some bad swings, and it went from bad to worse, and I seemed to be fighting that hook all day.
TODD BUDNICK:  It was back and forth all day.  At any point did you feel like it was -- obviously the beginning of the day you had four birdies and it was going your way, but the momentum kept swinging.
DARREN CLARKE:  Yeah, it was going everywhere.  I got it back again playing No. -- which is the little par 4 around the corner, 13?  The wind was swirling about a little bit, and I pulled a wedge a little bit up against the sleepers there and didn't get it out, ended up making double, and I gave some back again.  I was probably a little bit greedy on 18 with the way that I had been swinging all day, fighting going left and trying to take an 8-iron in and take the flag down proved to be foolish.
Q.  On the hole -- when you had the ball stop in the crack of the wood, did you think maybe the momentum would turn in your favor or that was a break for you?
DARREN CLARKE:  Not really.  I had hit bad shots before and it was just another one.  It didn't make any difference.
Q.  Have you ever seen a shot stop in a crack in a wood two inches from the water or had to play that before?
DARREN CLARKE:  Things happen out here that you don't think are going to happen.  I didn't think I was going to shoot whatever I shot today.
Q.  What was going through your mind when you were walking up 18 fairway?
DARREN CLARKE:  You could not print it (laughter), so I'd better not tell you.
Q.  Was there a single point where your swing went from feeling good to feeling bad?
DARREN CLARKE:  No, it just got progressively worse, no real point where I could say it went -- I hit some pure shots, and then around this golf course, as tight as it is, standing on the tees with not much confidence, it's a pretty tough golf course.
Q.  You seemed to struggle with the bunker shots.  Were they just tough shots or has bunker play been something you were struggling with?
DARREN CLARKE:  My bunker play has been great.  The one that I couldn't get out of was up against the sleepers on 14, I couldn't do anything about that.

The one on No. 7, the par 3, I had a bad lie.  The bunker hadn't been raked properly and I couldn't get underneath the ball and I had to land it on a very small area to get it close.  I couldn't do anything with it.
Q.  Is there any sense of disbelief given where you were with 13 holes to go with --
DARREN CLARKE:  Yes.  The honest answer is yes.  I can't believe I've done what I've done.
TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you very much, Darren.  Appreciate your time.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT