VOLVO MASTERS ANDALUCIA
October 30, 2004
Darren Clarke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Obviously a disappointment bogeying the last, but pleased with a 68?
DARREN CLARKE:  Yeah, obviously very disappointed to make bogey from the middle of the fairway on the last, but overall I played pretty well.

Q.  6-under par for 53 holes, what's the key to that success?
DARREN CLARKE:  I've just been playing reasonably well.  My short game has been good, and just unfortunately there I made a mistake and chose the wrong club on the last.

Q.  How about the breeze today?
DARREN CLARKE:  It's pretty tough with the breeze; it's tough to pick the right club.  I managed to most of the time today and it's gusting, as well.  You think you've hit a decent shot and it catches a gust.  Anything off the greens around here, it's tough to get up-and-down.

Q.  After taking an 11 on the 17th yesterday, how did you manage to overcome that?
DARREN CLARKE:  I just played the same golf as I did again.  I got a nice round of applause and managed to make 5 on 17 today, which was nice.  Disappointed not to be in red numbers after yesterday and making that mistake on the last.

Q.  What were the emotions over the third shot today?
DARREN CLARKE:  Hit it on the grass and don't come back in the water.

Q.  Take us through the day today; pin positions were difficult and the wind was up.
DARREN CLARKE:  Yeah, the wind started to pick up after seven holes or so.  But after a good start, I was 3-under after five, and had a 2-footer for birdie on 6 and I missed that.  That stopped the momentum a little bit, but kept on going pretty well all day and then just threw away another stupid shot there at the last again.  I've had quite a few of those this week.

Q.  And over two days, you've taken 17 shots on the 17th.  What was going through your mind playing that hole today?
DARREN CLARKE:  Well, the flag is back right so there's a bit of long grass right of the flag. So I thought if I could get it in there, at least I can't spin it back in the water, and that's what I managed to do.

Q.  You got a nice reception, as well.
DARREN CLARKE:  It was a nice day, obviously.  They obviously enjoyed my 11 more than I did yesterday, so it was good to make 5.

Q.  Level par, do you still have a chance?
DARREN CLARKE:  Depends if the wind is going to pick up more or what's going to happen, but I think somebody is going to finish probably 5-, or 6-under.  I think I'm too far back, but I would certainly like to finish in red numbers as opposed to level par.

Q.  And putting this week has been good?
DARREN CLARKE:  My short game has been good this week.  I've chipped it close an awful lot of times this week and that makes it a lot easier if you're tapping them in than holing putts from six or eight feet.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT