WGC AMERICAN EXPRESS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 3, 2004
Darren Clarke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DARREN CLARKE:  I'm up there on the PGA Money List, so that's going to put me in decent money.  I'm disappointed I didn't win one more this year and then make the Tour Championship.  I don't know, I'll have to see at the end of the day.  I mean, it was good to go out and shoot 133 on the weekend.

It was a decent start.  It's always lucky when you hole a shot.  I just hit a nice wedge in there and it was very fortunate for it to go in.  On a day like this you need a couple good things to happen.  I played pretty well all day.
Q.  Did you feel that you had a shot?
DARREN CLARKE:  No, I was too far back, but I had a few things on my mind.  Number one, just trying to make the Tour Championship.  I'm 33rd I think going into this week, and hopefully today this will jump me up a little bit.  Whether I've got to go play another tournament or not to see if I can get in, I'll take a look at that at the end of the day.
Q.  Will you make a pursuit to try to do that?
DARREN CLARKE:  If I'm very close I will try, because I played it for the first time last year and it's one of the biggest and best tournaments in the world and I'd love to get in.
Q.  Good start, great finish.
DARREN CLARKE:  Obviously very difficult conditions, but I played well, hit the ball well again today, as I have for the past couple of days.  I shot 133 at the weekend in very, very tough conditions and that's pretty good golf.
Q.  You must be pretty proud to do that in those conditions.
DARREN CLARKE:  Well, pretty much so.  You know, especially after the first day where I started with 15 pars and then threw away a stupid shot.  To keep on grinding, keep on going and turn it into a decent finish, whatever I'm going to finish, 4th or 5th or whatever, you know, it was pretty good.  I'm getting there eventually.
Q.  Two great scores, and you holed a few putts?
DARREN CLARKE:  Yesterday I did.  Today I didn't.  I don't know how many I had today, 30 I think, so that's quite a lot in conditions like this, but I hit a lot of greens, gave myself a lot of chances, and I'll keep on doing that and hopefully manage to get a win by the end of the year.
Q.  (Inaudible).
DARREN CLARKE:  Yeah, trying to get into the Tour Championship has been one of my goals, and I'm 33rd going into the Money List.  I believe 33rd.  You guys will be able to check that.  I was close to that going into this weekend, and hopefully that's going to lift me up into that top 30.  If not, I'll be closer to the top 30, so I might have to go over and play another tournament.  If that's the case, I will do it.
Q.  What tournament will that be?
DARREN CLARKE:  It'll either be I think Disney or Tampa, are the only two that could fit into my schedule.  I played the Tour Championship last year and I want to play it again.
Q.  Why the big improvement on Saturday and Sunday over Thursday and Friday?
DARREN CLARKE:  I have no idea, no idea.  Typical me, isn't it?
Q.  (Inaudible).
DARREN CLARKE:  Well, I don't have one.  I just holed a few putts yesterday and got off to a good start today.  I didn't think I swung it any different, I just kept hitting it.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT