THE RYDER CUP MATCHES
September 19, 2004
Darren Clarke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  A great shame about the final putt.  I guess you would have taken a halve at the 16th tee, though.
DARREN CLARKE:  Yeah, yeah, definitely it would have done.  Davis and I had another great game today.  It's tough whenever you're playing against a real good friend.  I'm smoking his cigars that he brought me up here this week.

But we had a real good game.  I think overall I'm disappointed with missing that at my last, but Davis missed one there, as well, and I think a halve was a very fair result for both of us.
Q.  How difficult was it early in that match when you could see all that red going up on the board?
DARREN CLARKE:  Pretty tough.  But that was one of the things that we said to each other last night in the team room, to keep going; everybody's point is as important as everyone else's.  Focus on your own game and that's obviously what the guys have done.
Q.  Are you going to go out and watch Westwood?
DARREN CLARKE:  Yes, yes, I am.
Q.  You've got to be pretty happy with what transpired for you during the week of the Ryder Cup.
DARREN CLARKE:  Yeah it's been pretty GOOD.  Obviously a little bit disappointed there.  But Davis, I got a little bit of a good break on 17 there.  So I think a halve was a very fair result.
Q.  You've got to be happy with the overall performance of the Europeans.
DARREN CLARKE:  Yeah, I think people didn't expect us to perform this well, and unfortunately for the U.S. guys, we played very, very well.
Q.  You played in the very best spirit and you so nearly pulled the iron out of the fire there.
DARREN CLARKE:  Yeah, I did.  But I'm obviously disappointed that I didn't make the putt and win.  But I think that it was good and bad that I'm playing against one of my best friends out here.  I'm going around there smoking Davis's cigars that he's brought me up here this week.

So I think I got a bit of a break there on 17 by holing the putt, and I would have loved to have holed that to get a full point, but I think a halved match is a great result.
Q.  Great integrity he showed by not taking relief on the 18th.
DARREN CLARKE:  Yeah, I believe so.  But that says everything about Davis Love.  He's one of the nicest guys out here.  That's Davis.
Q.  Langer said he was expecting two points out of the top three games; he nearly got it.
DARREN CLARKE:  Nearly got it.  It wasn't looking that way for quite some time, but 1 1/2 is pretty good.
Q.  Nearly there.
DARREN CLARKE:  We're nearly there, yeah.  I think it's going been a fantastic performance by all of us guys here this week.  The whole team has performed unbelievably well.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT