THE RYDER CUP MATCHES
September 18, 2004
Darren Clarke
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Not the result you were looking for.  You went down early and couldn't get the momentum.
DARREN CLARKE:  We had our chances to get back in the game a little bit.  We just couldn't quite mount the charge we needed.
Q.  Ian, your first experience of Ryder Cup, how did it live up to expectations?

IAN POULTER:  It was a frustrating day.  We hit some good golf shots out there and just nothing went in.

The first and second, it was difficult.  They got up early and they just kept doing that.
Q.  It was a very different atmosphere out there today.  The crowd was really up for it.  What's it like to play in front of an audience that's very vocal but they don't want you to win?
DARREN CLARKE:  It's always the same.  It's the same for us over here all the time, and it's the same in Europe all the time for those guys.  But unfortunately, we gave them a little too much to cheer about this morning.
Q.  Talk about the match this morning.
DARREN CLARKE:  We had our opportunities to make some putts and to gain some momentum and unfortunately we couldn't do it.  We hit putts on the lines that we thought and we didn't make anything.

And we got that pair, Tiger and Riley, they got the momentum and didn't give it up.
Q.  You must have been very excited playing against Tiger in your first Ryder Cup match but disappointed now, I suppose.

IAN POULTER:  Absolutely, it's not the sort of day I wanted to have.  We just couldn't get anything going.  It was a tough day.
Q.  You hear these roars right now, it's such a different day today from yesterday.  Did that have an effect on you?
DARREN CLARKE:  Doesn't make any difference.  We expected roars and knew they were going to come.  We had a very good day yesterday, and the Americans are playing very well today.  So that's the Ryder Cup.
Q.  Tiger made pretty much a statement on the first tee when he cracked his drive down the middle.  You must have been expecting that from him.

IAN POULTER:  Of course, he's No. 2 in the world, I guess.  You know he can play and he makes lots of birdies.  And especially in this format, you just have to make as many as you can.  And we just couldn't hole our fair share.
DARREN CLARKE:  If you don't make putts, you're not going to compete at this level, and we didn't today at all.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT