DEUTSCHE BANK - SAP OPEN TPC OF EUROPE
May 23, 2004
Darren Clarke
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Just too much left to do today?

ERNIE ELS:   Yeah, I think that 7 I made in the second round really cost me.  I lost my momentum there.  As I said, I didn't play very well yesterday, but got it going a little bit with the putter today.  I wasn't hitting it straight but hit it decent and made some putts today.
Q.  Yesterday you had 30 putts in your round and 26 today; that's an improvement?

ERNIE ELS:   Yeah, I got the ball up and down when I needed to and missed some greens which I haven't been doing the last two rounds.  When I did hit some reasonable shots, I made some putts today, so that's a big difference.  As I said yesterday, I wasn't too far away.  I've still got some work left going into next week, but I'm feeling a lot better now.
Q.  Living on the property, is it like a home event for you next week?

ERNIE ELS:   Absolutely.  I've really contended at the PGA.  I've never won it.  Yeah, I like the place, we have a home there; I live there

in.
Q.  What do you think of Immelman

ERNIE ELS:   He's becoming an important player now here in Europe.  In America he's got to find his feet still, but over here he's had a lot of success and he's one of the top players.  It's no surprise.
Q.  Another frustrating day out there?

DARREN CLARKE:  I haven't been putting the way I wanted this year.  But there's not much that you can do.  It is frustrating; they are not going in and there's nothing I can do about it.  Certainly it is testing my patience.  Well.
Q.  As good as they come

DARREN CLARKE:      probably will be very pleased, I think so.  The two guys up front, they are having great success.
Q.  You just can't win a tournament of this magnitude

DARREN CLARKE:   No, you can't.  And I gave myself a lot of opportunities to be a lot closer, finish a lot closer to the two guys and it's frustrating, coming out third or fourth something like that.  But pleased the way I hit it from tee to green and in general.
Q.  Another big week next week, what can you do in the meanwhile?

DARREN CLARKE:   I think probably I willc be delving into the putters     it could be one of those belly putters we've been talking about, one of those.  I'll find something and keep on working on it.  One of these weeks, they will go in, and I just hope it's the next week at Wentworth or a couple weeks after that at the U.S. Open.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT