THE 145TH OPEN
July 17, 2016
Darren Clarke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Must be pleased with your play today?
DARREN CLARKE: Yeah, I played nicely.  Disappointing to bogey the last there, but missed just my second shot in and stuff.  But I played nicely.  So all in all, pretty good.
Q. (Inaudible) what have you learned?
DARREN CLARKE: Well, we're not finished yet.  So we'll see how the rest of the guys go.  Well, there's a lot of guys playing pretty good, but it's tough conditions, obviously for everybody, especially the guys that got the -- which side of the draw was it?  Early, late, or whichever side it was, it was tough conditions.  I think the leader, there was a big gulf in the scoring and stuff.  So it's been tough.  It's good to see there's a lot of Europeans up there grinding it out as well and doing really well.
Q. Someone like Andrew Johnston doing well, and do you think he's still got a chance?
DARREN CLARKE: Yeah, everybody's still got a chance.  There is a long way to go yet.  Obviously this is a huge one in terms of points.  U.S. PGA is another one that has a massive amount of points.  But there's other events as well between U.S. PGA and Made in Denmark.  There's other chances.  Guy goes in and wins back-to-back, then they come into consideration.  There's still quite a way to go.
Q. (Inaudible).
DARREN CLARKE: No, it's winning tournaments.  That's what it is, or having strong finishes, that's what it's all about.  And that correlates to points.  But obviously playing well this week is going to push a few of them further up, and a few of them more into contention.
Q. Should Henrik (inaudible)?
DARREN CLARKE: Yeah, it would obviously be wonderful.  Henrik's been knocking on the door for such a long time.  I saw his record on television briefly, and he's finished how many seconds does he have in majors and thirds in majors and all that sort of stuff.  So he's been knocking on the door a long time.  Henrik's a wonderful player.  He's been playing very well for a long time, and if he was to win today, that would be great.
Q. The U.S. PGA, will you play that?
DARREN CLARKE: No, I'm playing, after PGA, my next tournament will be Made in Denmark and then I'm playing in Switzerland the day after and it will be a couple weeks off.
Q. (Inaudible).
DARREN CLARKE: Well, obviously whenever he won at Valderrama he showed everybody he can play.  But he's coming from such a long way behind from where the other guys already had a head start on him.  But it's great to see him playing well.  He's a character.  The crowds love him, and it's great to see.  He needs obviously to have a really good day today and then a good U.S. PGA to get him somewhere up there in the rankings.
Q. If he wasn't a rookie, would you have a different consideration for him?
DARREN CLARKE: No, because there's only a certain amount of places that I would go down to considering in terms of a pick.  So because he's still quite a way outside those points, no.  There's got to be a line.  There is a line in my mind that I wouldn't really go below a certain number looking at picks.
Q. In terms of captain's picks, are you still thinking about rookies?
DARREN CLARKE: I didn't say that.  I said that I would balance it up whenever I see, whatever I see fit.
Q. So it depends on the likes of (inaudible)?
DARREN CLARKE: Yeah, yeah, as I say, I can't really say I'm thinking about it because we've got to wait to see how everything finishes and try to balance the team out.  Should that be, for example, if two of those guys got into the (indiscernible) match, then we were to get more rookies in there to balance it out, then yes.  If they don't, would I go for experience?  Possibly yes.  But I can't stand here and say what I'm going to go for until the automatic 9 is finalized.
Q. (Inaudible).
DARREN CLARKE: Only a little bit, yes.  My own game's irrelevant compared to what's going on with the other stuff.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT