WGC NEC INVITATIONAL
August 23, 2001
Darren Clarke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DARREN CLARKE:   Yeah.  I played nicely today -- again today.  Seems from the way I played last week -- buried the putter; got the putter working a little bit better.  I drove  -- had quite a few poor drives, but managed to get away with most of them.  
 
DARREN CLARKE:  I think some of the pins were certainly more accessible, but with the rain softening it up, you could spin it back an awful lot on the greens.  So you had to be very careful of not hitting it in the wrong places and what have you.  But overall, the course was pretty fair, but gave everybody an opportunity to shoot a good score.  
 
Q.  Eagle on 2?
 
DARREN CLARKE:   Hit driver, 5-wood to four feet.  
 
Q.  Followed it with  --
 
DARREN CLARKE:   A drive, 9-iron to six inches. 
 
DARREN CLARKE:   That's a pretty nice start.  (Laughs).  That's about 6 better than usual at this place for me. 
 
DARREN CLARKE:   I think so.  The course does not give birdies away easily.  There is opportunities, but there is a lot of opportunities for dropping shots, also.  It certainly was  very good for me to get off to a good, solid start today. 
 
Q.  You had plenty of time to reflect on last week, Darren?
 
DARREN CLARKE:   I did.  Thank you.  It's just that I putted poorly.  I played very average last Thursday and then played nicely on Friday.  Shot 69  -- sorry, 64 net 69 on the card, so missed by one.  I played okay and couldn't quite manage to make anything.  But seems a little bit better this week.  Found a key to work on and certainly the ball is rolling a little bit better, so far.  
 
Q.  You found that key personally?
 
DARREN CLARKE:   Yeah.  
 
Q.  What was it? 
 
DARREN CLARKE:   It was just my hands were too far behind the ball.  Just something very simple. 
 
Q.  Did you come down here early to practice?
 
DARREN CLARKE:   No.  I went back to Philadelphia.  I've got friends up there.  I played at a new course up there owned by a friend of mine called Pine Hill and I played at Merion on Monday morning.  I thought the weather was going to be better in Philly, so that's why I went up there to practice, as opposed to staying in Atlanta where it was too hot and humid to do any productive work. 
 
Q.  What do you think of Merion? 
 
DARREN CLARKE:   Merion is fantastic.  Pine Valley is the best course in the world, but Merion is pretty good.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT