WGC AMERICAN EXPRESS CHAMPIONSHIP
November 12, 2000
Darren Clarke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. It's fairly close to call, the Order of Merit, isn't it?

DARREN CLARKE:  No.  I think Lee will do it quite easily, the way he's playing.  I had a chance, obviously, coming in to finish at the top if I played well enough; and I wasn't able to do that.  So, yeah, I've only got myself to blame.  But in fairness, you'd have to say that Lee's been a lot more consistent this season.  He played better than I have on a more regular basis.  If he finishes No.  1, then I think that's a fair result. 

Q.  That's very generous. 

DARREN CLARKE:  Well, it is a fair result. 


Q.  (Inaudible.) 

DARREN CLARKE:  No, but I just think that's  -- if he does, I think Lee deserves to finish No. 1 more than I do. 

Q.  If it pans out like that, how disappointed will you be?

DARREN CLARKE: Yeah, of course I'd be disappointed.  It was yesterday that did myself the damage I did myself.  As I just said there, I gave myself the opportunity to do it.  I couldn't produce the sort of golf that I needed to.  So... (Inaudible).   I was looking forward to the week, but I couldn't play well enough.  (Inaudible.) 

Q.  Were you nervous?

DARREN CLARKE:  No, I was up to the week.  I wanted to play well and try to, but it just didn't materialize.  I actually hit the ball okay, but I just  -- I couldn't  --.

Q.  You seemed a little bit anxious at times. 

DARREN CLARKE:  No.  Just nothing was happening for me.  I was trying to force it a couple of times and things like that, you know, hitting good shots into some holes, what have you.  Not converting chances, then you tend to push a little bit harder, push a little bit harder; and that's when I made mistakes. 


Q.  (Inaudible.) 

DARREN CLARKE:  Yeah, exactly.  You know, that's one of the sort of weeks I've had.

Q.  Is it the strangeness of the challenge, Darren? You're operating sort of on two levels, you know?

DARREN CLARKE:  Yeah, it was difficult. 

Q.  You haven't had to do that?

DARREN CLARKE:  No, I haven't.  I haven't.  It was difficult to try and keep playing, but I thought I did that well enough without worrying about anything else.  But it was yesterday, really  -- yesterday on the back nine when things got away from me a little bit. 

Q.  Did you look at leaderboards today to see how Lee was doing?

DARREN CLARKE:  Well, he didn't tee off until I was 14, or what have you. 

Q.  Then did you see it at all?

DARREN CLARKE: Yes, I did.  On -- what hole was it?  16 or something. 

Q.  He had two birdies. 

DARREN CLARKE: Yeah, something like that. 

Q.  You must be proud of how composed you've remained so far.  I mean, it has been difficult?

DARREN CLARKE: Yeah, it has been pretty difficult.  But you've got to try and learn from your mistakes; and hopefully, again, this is another one where you want to try and learn from. 

Q.  At the start of the year, you might well have taken successive (inaudible). 

DARREN CLARKE:  (Inaudible.)  I haven't been able to convert my chances into wins.  Ultimately, that's what Lee does; and that's why, I think, he deserved to finish in No. 1.  He takes his chances more often than not. 

Q.  You mentioned you weren't probably having dinner together, but were you in the same restaurant?

DARREN CLARKE:  No, we were in different ones. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT