DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN HOSTED BY THE RORY FOUNDATION
May 21, 2016
Darren Clarke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tell us about your day.
DARREN CLARKE: It was going okay, and then seems for a couple of days, stupid mistakes down the end.  Sort of missed it from a foot on the 15th hole, just not even thinking.  Just went up to tap it in and a bogey at the next and caught one of the heavy rain showers trying to go for the second on 16 and had to lay up.
And the last, I hit it in the water again, another rain shower over the top of the hill.  Again a, lot of good shots and just some poor ones.
Q. So much have been made about conditions this week.  How were they today?
DARREN CLARKE: They were fine.  It was nice, a little bit of a breeze early but nothing too difficult.  Then just around the storms, a couple of those heavy rain showers and the wind picks up.  But it's the Irish Open; that's what we're supposed to have here.
Q. Frustrating finish for you?
DARREN CLARKE: Again managed to do it all week this week.  Hit a lot of good shots but again, just keep throwing shots away.  That's just from not being competitively sharp, with not playing that much and competing that much, I'm making silly mistakes.  I'm really angry about it today.  I should have finished much much better off but I didn't.
Q. How frustrating was it, you were ticking along really nicely after ten holes playing lovely golf.
DARREN CLARKE: Felt like throwing half the set of clubs into the Liffey.  My score, I just messed up again.
Q. Patience is hard when things don't happen?
DARREN CLARKE: I don't have any when it comes to my own golf.  I have patience for lots of things but not for my own golf.
Q. Tough as well in the weather conditions?
DARREN CLARKE: Yeah, as soon as you get some heavy showers come in there, I just got caught in two of the wrong holes in the wrong time in the heavy showers.  That's the way it is.  Everybody's got to deal with it and I just didn't deal with it very well.
Q. One good round to finish hopefully?
DARREN CLARKE: Hopefully tomorrow I'll go out and get my good round.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT