EURASIA CUP PRESENTED BY DRB-HICOM
January 17, 2016
Darren Clarke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You must be an extremely happy man?
DARREN CLARKE: Yeah, the team have played fantastic this week.  I've thrown a couple of my ideas at them and aside from that, the team bonding that they have had -- Lee and Poults, both of them 100 per cent.  Lee to get the winning point, it's brilliant.  You know what those two have brought to the team room is priceless.  They have been very, very good.  All the young kids have listened to them.  They have all learnt from them.
I think it's been a hugely beneficial week.  Let's not forget we've still got a lot of matches to go but I wanted every guy to think about their own match and not watch the leaderboards.  It's a difficult thing to do but they have obviously, all the golf I've watched, they have played brilliantly again.  This team was a strong team and the way Europe have played this week, I have been very, very impressed.
Q. How important will this week prove to be for you as a captain, looking forward to The Ryder Cup?
DARREN CLARKE: Yeah, I think there's a lot of things that I've learnt this week.  Time being one of them, I don't have an awful lot of.  There have been a lot of positives this week.  Obviously looking towards some Ryder Cup things that's going to come together.  I've learnt a few things, and hopefully I'll do a better job come September.  But if the players don't play and don't perform, you can be the best captain in the world and you're not going to win.  This belongs to the players; the quality of the golf this week has been brilliant.
Q. Everyone has been extremely complimentary to you as a captain.  Have you enjoyed it?
DARREN CLARKE: I've enjoyed it immensely.  It's been a wonderful learning experience for me.  I've been around the game a long time and done most things in the game and been fortunate to do so.
This is different.  I really enjoyed it.  The guys seemed to listen to what I had to say, and if my little part of it has helped them along, then well be it.  I'm really looking forward now to, we'll go back out the next couple weeks and sit down with The European Tour and figure out what I did well as a captain or what I could have done better and work on those areas and hopefully become -- get the whole package even better for September.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT