ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 1, 2015
Darren Clarke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How positive are you coming into The Open de France here at would this wonderful venue?
DARREN CLARKE:   Decent result again last week.   Didn't hit the ball well particularly well but the short game was sharp.   I game correctly to here from Munich last weeks and got a lot of hard work done.   Spend a lot of time Monday working on a few things.   Got a new driver from TaylorMade which going a lot further than my old one thankfully, and new set of irons, new set of edges.   Everything is a little bit new, but looking forward to it.

Q.   I gather another tiplast week ‑‑
DARREN CLARKE:   Yeah, he was very good.   The first two days were particularly frustrating on the greens last week, and I think it's been that way for quite some time.   Pablo and his caddie took a look at me and gave me a little tip, said the ball was too far forward, etc., etc.   So my eyes were slightly askew. 
Moved the ball back a little bit, started rolling it a lot better so my pace was better and managed to knock in a few putts.   When you're knocking in a couple of putts, makes a big difference.

Q.   People at home are thinking:   Why is Open Champion needing a tip from a four‑time champion.   But it's the nature of the game. 
DARREN CLARKE:   Yeah, we all need tips sometimes.   We are not always aware of what we do wrong ourselves.   That's what makes The European Tour the way it is.   Everybody is so keen and eager to help each other.   That doesn't happen in many other tours around the world, and the guys out here are only too willing to help each other and that is what makes it more special. 

Q.   Are they all the more keen to help you now?
DARREN CLARKE:   I had not quite thought about it that way but any help I can get is gladly received.

Q.   Is it any different coming into this event as a Ryder Cup Captain knowing this will be a Ryder Cup venue in the future? 
DARREN CLARKE:   It would be if I was captain here, but obviously not.   Hazeltine is why it's going to be at. 
But in terms of The Ryder Cup here, this is going to be a sensational Ryder Cup with the golf course the way it is, the way it was constructed as a Stadium Golf Course.   The viewing is going to be incredible.   The excitement is going to be incredible with the holes and so much water involved. 
You know, I think because we played here for so long, I think the Europeans will have hopefully a little bit of advantage because they know the golf course.   It's tough but it's very fair and you've got to know where you can miss it and where you can't. 

Q.   As we've played here for so long, you can see the developments and enthusiasm of The Ryder Cup coming to this venue?
DARREN CLARKE:   Everything as I just said, it will be a wonderful venue.   The golf course is in wonderful shape and I know they are shutting it down right after this for some time to put in to modernise the irrigation, etc., to have perfect conditions for when the Ryder Cup does come here. 
But the course itself is such a wonderful test.   It's fair.   If you get too aggressive, there's a lot of water in play and this week, it's a little bit different because of the dry spell they have had here.   The rough is not quite as thick as normal and the greens, they are going to have to throw so much water on the greens to keep them alive because of the heat forecast for this week so they will be a little bit softer. 
So that's not quite the conditions we have come to expect coming here.   I think the scoring this week could possibly be a bit lower than normal but you're still going to have to play very, very around here.

Q.   With your captain's hat on, any business we should be enquiring about? 
DARREN CLARKE:   Not yet.   I'm just working on my game and watching a few of the young guys, just watching how they are getting on.   Things will start getting busy for me in September.   As soon as Russia starts, that's when things are going to get really busy for me and I'll start paying possibly a bit more attention to how some of the guys are playing. 
There's not an awful lot I can do; there's things going on behind the scenes that I have to make some decisions on but in terms of the players and stuff, I can't do anything until‑‑ I can't do anything full‑stop and there's no real point in paying too close of attention just yet. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT