DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN HOSTED BY THE RORY FOUNDATION
May 29, 2015
Darren Clarke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   That seemed to be a battling round of golf in difficult conditions today?
DARREN CLARKE:   I had both extremes going on today.   The ball‑striking was probably right up there with one of the best rounds that I've ever played and my putting was right up there with one of the worst that I've ever done.   I had both extremes going on.   I kept giving myself chances and chances, hardly missed a green.   It obviously was nice to have a better score than yesterday but with the way I hit it, it should have been a lot better today.

Q.   Both extremes for you, but I think we had every single extreme of weather conditions.   How difficult does that make things? 
DARREN CLARKE:   The course is hard enough in good weather but it's just that little bit more.   You get some gusts out there, as well, when squall showers come in.   The wind could go blowing one in, and all of a sudden you get a squall shower comes in and changes direction and picks up 20 miles an hour.   Can make you look very stupid, very quickly.

Q.   You're not here to make cuts but you are here for the weekend.   How good do you think you can do at the weekend? 
DARREN CLARKE:   I have to go to the putting green and try to figure something out, some method to hole a few putts.   Certainly a big difference from today to yesterday.   Just got to keep on striking the ball like that, figure out the putting, because the game is very, very close. 

Q.   Nine shots back, do you think the leader is catchable? 
DARREN CLARKE:   Anything can happen around this golf course.   As you can see, a really good score around here is 2‑ or 3‑under par.   That's a real, real quality score.   I'm probably too far back but I'll go out and play as well as I possibly can. 

Q.   What did you make of that?   It was a tough front nine for you, the back nine was better. 
DARREN CLARKE:   Yeah, I missed one green on the front nine and had obviously birdie putts, hit it close and missed everything.   Got very, very frustrated because my tee‑to‑green game was probably as good as it's ever been.   I made one putt on 15 today for birdie‑‑ whilst the ball‑striking was good, a shame to not make more and shoot a much better score. 

Q.   Looks like you'll be here for the weekend. 
DARREN CLARKE:   Well, I don't come just to make cut but obviously with the Irish Open and here at home at Royal County Down, I want to play. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT