DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN HOSTED BY THE RORY FOUNDATION
May 28, 2015
Darren Clarke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DARREN CLARKE:   Didn't play well, didn't do anything well.   Hit the ball poorly.   Wrong clubs.  
   
 Q.   Just not your day?  
DARREN CLARKE:   No.   Just a bad day.   Course was great.   It was tough but fair, and you know, I just didn't play well.  
   
 Q.   And Rory is further behind.   He's struggling out there today.   Is it just probably the pressure?  
DARREN CLARKE:   Well, the golf course is very, very difficult.   Once you get in a little bit of a bad spot, you can drop a shot very easily, and obviously Rory is doing that as well and a few other guys, so you know what, just a tough golf course.   We all want to play well, but sometimes the ball doesn't realize that.  
   
 Q.   Tomorrow's another day.   
DARREN CLARKE:   It is.   It is.   It's a long break between now and tomorrow, so I'm going to go to the range and work on a few things, hopefully play a bit better tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   A lot of support out there.   
DARREN CLARKE:   Yeah.   The crowds have been fantastic.   You know, it's great to see the support, everybody coming out here cheering everybody on.   Not just the home guys, but everybody, so it's wonderful to see.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel just with Rory getting off to a bad start?  
DARREN CLARKE:   He's got a lot of stuff going on.   He's a busy man.   He's a busy man everywhere he goes, and I'm sure he obviously wants to play well this week, but that's golf.   That's just the way it is.  
   
 Q.   Summarize your round for us.   
DARREN CLARKE:   Didn't hit it well.   Got a lot of wrong clubs between the caddy and myself and didn't putt well.   All in all, pretty poor day.  
   
 Q.   Just how difficult are the conditions out there today?  
DARREN CLARKE:   Yeah, it's difficult, but you know, obviously Luke Donald played really well.   And you can score out there, but the golf course is‑‑ if you're a little bit off, this will highlight a lot of that.   I was a lot off today.  
   
 Q.   And what was the problem for you?  
DARREN CLARKE:   Just everything.   My distance control was off, and I still couldn't get it within 50 feet of the hole a lot of times and you can't really afford to do that on this golf course.   There's holes you gotta take advantage of and I was making bogeys on those holes.   So all in all Royal County Down is too stern a test to do that and anybody that isn't quite at the top of their game is going to have that on this course today.  
   
 Q.   Especially in very windy conditions it looks like.   
DARREN CLARKE:   Yeah, but that's links.   That's Royal County Down.   You ought to be able to play on these things.   That's what it is, it's gotta be tough but fair.  
   
 Q.   Rory McIlroy is the host here this week.   He's having a bit of a first round nightmare today.   I'm sure you feel for him.   There's a lot on this week.   
DARREN CLARKE:   Yeah.   He's a busy man for hosting this tournament, and we owe him a lot for this week and I'm sure Rory will be disappointed.   But that's golf.   That's links golf, you have a couple of bad breaks and things aren't quite going for you.   It's very difficult to give yourself really good birdie chances unless you're on top of your game, and obviously Rory is a little bit below standard for him.   But you know, Rory is Rory, a couple of days from now he might be back up there.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT