MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2015
Darren Clarke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You had two doubles‑‑
DARREN CLARKE:   You'd think that I've been here enough times to know where I should miss and where I shouldn't miss, and the two that I did miss, I was absolute‑‑ the best I could have done on either of them was to get it to 30 feet and didn't manage to do that.   Went three feet past the hole and up.   That's Augusta. 
I didn't mean to hit them there.   One was a poor shot and one had a little bit of mud on it that I didn't see.   I didn't see the one on 7; if there was mud on it, I didn't see it. 
But all in all, hit it really close at the start and had lots of chances.   2‑over is not what I wanted, but not bad. 
3‑putted 13 for par, as well.   Hit two lovely shots on there, and then 2‑putted 15 for birdie.
My speed was a little bit off.   Two nice 6‑ , 7‑footers there on the last two holes for two good saves. 

Q.   What did you hit into 6?
DARREN CLARKE:   A little 7‑iron. 

Q.   12‑foot? 
DARREN CLARKE:   Something like that. 

Q.   Different person, different man altogether; transformed by this responsibility? 
DARREN CLARKE:   Well, I don't know, you're a better judge of that than me. 

Q.   Do you find you're standing up straighter, shoulders back more?
DARREN CLARKE:   Not particularly.   Not yet.   Maybe at some stage. 
At the end of the day, I still want to compete myself, never mind The Ryder Cup captaincy.   I still want to compete myself and wanting to go out and do as well as I can. 
Having been here so many times, to make the couple of mistakes that I made, and I know walking up there, I know that they are dead, as people have been here before.   But I didn't mean to do it. 

Q.   Butterflies on the first tee?
DARREN CLARKE:   Yeah, everybody gets nerves when they come play Augusta.   Even you come play with John Kerry, you get a bit of nerves.   No, everybody gets it; if you're not with a bit of nerves on the first tee at Augusta National in the Masters, there's something wrong.

Q.   Did you squeeze in the opening ceremonial tee shots?
DARREN CLARKE:   No, because we were so close.   What were we, half eight, we were too close. 

Q.   When have you seen the course like this, so benign?
DARREN CLARKE:   The wind is still changing a little bit about there.   You don't feel it an awful lot here, but it's still gusting amongst the trees and it's switching directions.   It's Augusta.   It's difficult.   It's there in front of you, and it's much more difficult than it appears. 

Q.   Three more rounds, the way you played today? 
DARREN CLARKE:   Yeah, I played nicely.   As I told you, I'm playing okay.   Got to hole some putts.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT