MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2014
Darren Clarke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DARREN CLARKE:   It was pretty calm and stuff this morning, so it was good.   But the breeze is picking up and starting to swirl about again.   We got it from about 13, 14, it started swirling about and got it wrong a few times but all in all it was tough.   It was a grinding day. 
Yesterday I hit the ball nicely, and today, wasn't quite on it today.   So you're going to have 6‑ to 8‑footers, and you're going to have chips to get to six to eight foot and you're going to have them, but it was nice I holed my fair share of them, which was good.

Q.   Confidence from that?
DARREN CLARKE:   Yeah, definitely, because you know, my wides aren't as wide and there's more in play, and my short game has been pretty good this past couple of days.   But again, I missed it in a couple of wrong places where a great chip is to six or eight feet, and unfortunately that's just with the wind swirling, got a couple clubs wrong and that's what happened.

Q.   Feel fortunate to get in?   Looks like it is going to be tricky and breezy and tough this afternoon. 
DARREN CLARKE:   It was tricky and breezy and tough yesterday afternoon.   So all's fair in love and war. 

Q.   Go to the range in these conditions?
DARREN CLARKE:   I'm going to the range and then to the gym.   I won't watch a shot. 

Q.   Looking back on the two days‑‑
DARREN CLARKE:   It was okay.   I told you at the start of the week, I'm hitting the ball not bad.   Swing is starting to feel better again.   I hit an awful lot of really good shots.   Today I wasn't quite on it, wasn't quite as sharp as yesterday.   But go and hit a few balls and hopefully play the weekend. 
The course is difficult.   The greens, I don't know what they have done, I don't know if they have sanded them or whatever but they are a lot firmer today than they were yesterday.   So it was difficult, again, to get close to the holes on a lot of them.   The pins were a little bit softer than yesterday, but still, takes an unbelievably good shot to get close to a lot of them.

Q.   You must have confidence in your putting. 
DARREN CLARKE:   I didn't make anything yesterday, but knocked in some good ones today whenever I had to.   I haven't been sitting on my arse.   It's nice for some of them to go in.   I hit a lot of good ones.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT