PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 2013
Darren Clarke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   That was a really good round of golf.   
DARREN CLARKE:   Yeah, I didn't play particularly great, but hung in there, I ground it out and gave myself a couple of chances and knocked in a couple of putts.   All in all 1‑under was probably better than I deserved, but it's nice to open with an under‑par round.  
   
 Q.   Is it good to be able to say 1‑under is better than you deserved‑‑  
DARREN CLARKE:   Could be the other way, played much better and scored much worse.   But it's nice on a really tough golf course, got a way with a few shots, but obviously also hit a few good ones and holed some putts.   
   
 Q.   You worked hard to get yourself back into this sort of shape and Muirfield was a good experience for the most part?  
DARREN CLARKE:   Muirfield was pretty good.   I had one poor hole‑‑ a few other mistakes obviously, but I had one poor hole and I paid a big penalty for it.  
All in all, Muirfield, I hit the ball very nice from tee‑to‑green, and could have finished a lot better than did I.  
   
 Q.   Apart from working hard, has something clicked?   Has something switched?  
DARREN CLARKE:   No, as I said, today I didn't play particularly great but maybe just a little bit more patient than I have been this past while and got around.  
   
 Q.   You must be looking forward to the next few days?  
DARREN CLARKE:   Yeah, hopefully play a little bit better tomorrow and get a few more under par, but if I can do that, that's what I'm here to do.   
   
 Q.   How much did the conditions change from the rain delay at all?  
DARREN CLARKE:   The greens, obviously they are spinning a little bit more but not that much.   
   
 Q.   You were talking about you played well at Muirfield, coming here, does this golf course suit your game, do you think?   
DARREN CLARKE:   I don't know.   If I play well, I should score well anywhere.   There's no particular course that suits me better than others, but as I say, I didn't play by any means as well as I can, but I have got to rely on sometimes a reverse is a little bit better.  
   
 Q.   Bob Rotella going to help this week?   
DARREN CLARKE:   Yeah, I spent a lot of time with him at The Open and spent a lot of time with him again this week.   Whenever I am over here, get the opportunity‑‑ and at The Open, he was over there.   It's always good to spend as much time with him as I can, and I was fortunate the last two tournaments to have quite a bit of time with him.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT