BMW MASTERS
October 24, 2012
Darren Clarke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  STEVE TODD:   Darren, thank you for joining us.   Just start by taking you back a few years, last time we had a BMW event in Asia, you were the champion and your first win in five years, so must be special memories coming back to China.
DARREN CLARKE:   It was my first win on The European Tour; but it was, the Thompson club was a really nice event.   The golf course was great and obviously it suited me.   But it was great to see a sponsor as good as BMW back in Asia again. 
STEVE TODD:   It's obviously a fantastic field this week.   Just your thoughts on the week in general and hopefully competing as part of the field.
DARREN CLARKE:   As you said, it's a really strong feed.   We have four of the top five in the world, have we?   That's a fantastic achievement for a European Tour event, and not just those four, but all the rest of the players that are here.   It's a fantastic event with lots of World Ranking points. 
The course, it's my first time playing the golf course and it's playing really nicely at the moment.   The greens are tough because of the severity in the slopes, but all in all, I'm sure it's going to be a very exciting week. 

Q.   You've been in China for a week; how did you enjoy it? 
DARREN CLARKE:   Mission Hills was great last week.   Hainan Island, a fantastic event they have got down there.   We had a really good week with the girls from the ladies tour, as well, and all of the celebs.   It was good fun on a great golf course.   It was good fun, as well. 

Q.   After watching The European Team win The Ryder Cup a few years ago in the upcoming Ryder Cup back in Europe, would you prefer to be the captain or the player? 
DARREN CLARKE:   I would prefer to play in any Ryder Cup Team but that's two years away yet.   So you know, I think the guys are still proud of what they achieved on Sunday at Medinah and deservedly so. 

Q.   If you're at a venue with not a lot of spectators, does that affect the energy of the players?
DARREN CLARKE:   I don't think so.   I think because of the field that we have that we're fortunate to have this week here, that BMW have assembled, I think the World Rankings in themselves push us all on.   I know what you're saying; it may not have the biggest atmosphere, but I'm sure everybody will be trying to win because of the World Ranking points. 

Q.   Do you see much difference between the course in Thompson where you won and the course you played here the last couple of days? 
DARREN CLARKE:   This one is much longer and much more difficult (grinning).
STEVE TODD:   Thanks, Darren. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT