BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 25, 2012
Darren Clarke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  STEVE TODD:   Darren, many thanks for joining us, your debut here in the Ballantine's Championship.   If you could start just by reflecting on the week and your thoughts on being here in Korea.
DARREN CLARKE:   Yeah, it's my first time here.   I have not played it before.   Obviously heard a lot of good things from the tournament and about the golf course from Lee, etc. 
So, you know, it's another good field again.   Lots of World Ranking points on offer with the field this year, and I'm sure it will be another great week. 
STEVE TODD:   You've had a couple of weeks off since the Masters, and you got married in that time, as well.
DARREN CLARKE:   I did. 
STEVE TODD:   So it's been a special couple of weeks for you.
DARREN CLARKE:   Yeah, it's been good to have another little break again and get down there and obviously get married   again.   I feel very lucky.   But back to work again now and try to get back into my golf again. 
STEVE TODD:   You've had a bit of success in Asia before and you brought a trophy with you this week, the Claret Jug, and it's always nice to bring it to a new country, isn't it.
DARREN CLARKE:   Yeah, the Pro‑Am dinner went really well last night.   I had the Claret Jug there last night and there were a lot of pictures take with it and what‑have‑you.
It's certainly a privilege for me to bring the Claret Jug with me most places where I go. 

Q.   I was wondering if you had a chance to look over the course, and if you have not been able to look at the course, I'm sure you've heard from your fellow colleagues about this course, and what sort of information did they share with you? 
DARREN CLARKE:   I have not seen the course as yet because I only arrived the early hours of yesterday morning.   I just practiced yesterday.   But I have heard lots of good things of the course, especially from Lee.   It's tough, challenging, but very fair.   So I'm looking forward to getting out and seeing what it's like. 

Q.   If you would talk about the state of your game?
DARREN CLARKE:   I don't know.   I've had a couple of weeks on the beach.   Not quite sure.   I practiced a little bit when I was there, and you know, I'll be a little bit rusty this week, but hopefully get back into it from tomorrow morning. 

Q.   This doesn't have to do with the game itself, but when you are on these tours in other countries, if you could tell us three things you must bring, three things you must pack in your bag when you go on these overseas tours. 
DARREN CLARKE:   Golf clubs.   (Laughter) I've not been asked this one before.   It's quite tough, this. 
Obviously golf clubs, making sure you've got the right clothes with you, if we have to go to dinners or things like, that functions.   And hopefully a golf game, as well.   So that you play okay. 

Q.   So you have to answer again, because his question is specifically that you can actually pack in a bag, so golf game could not be packed (laughter). 
DARREN CLARKE:   Watches.   So that I don't turn up late. 

Q.   So when you visit other countries, I'm sure that you have a chance to experience the different cultures in those countries, and this is your first visit to Korea.   So is there something that you would like to experience or do?   Maybe it's something that you've heard a lot about in Korea and that you want to try here in Korea. 
DARREN CLARKE:   On this particular trip, I've been all around the world, so I'm trying to catch up with some sleep.   I've had about six hours' sleep so far in two days, so that's more important than anything else.   But maybe next time when I get back to Korea I will have time. 
STEVE TODD:   Thank you very much, Darren, all the best this week.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT