VOLVO GOLF CHAMPIONS
January 29, 2011
Darren Clarke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Third round, 5-under par, how do you feel about your day's work?  
 DARREN CLARKE: Yeah, pretty good. Miss-hit a few shots out there but kept giving myself chances on the back nine and just kept misreading greens, and luckily I managed to roll one in there on last so all in all a pretty good day.  
  
  Q. Nice to see you hole a putt like did you on the last; do you feel like this it could be the start of something?  
 DARREN CLARKE: It definitely has been an awful lot better. Even the putts that I've missed this week have been better, which sounds stupid, but they have actually been better quality strikes. A lot of the putts I've missed this week has been due to mis-reads, not due to mis-strikes, which is a very, very pleasant change for me.  
  
  Q. Francesco Molinari has also changed his putting and seen signs of improvement, and he says he seems more relaxed on the greens and his attitude is better; same with you?  
 DARREN CLARKE: I think so. I'm working really hard. José Maria told me it will take a while, along with what Phil Kenyon has told me, and I'm working away and working away and feels good. When it comes off the putter head, I know I've hit a good putt.  
  
  Q. How do you feel about your position in the championship now?  
 DARREN CLARKE: It's pretty good. Paul obviously played nicely today. I'm doing okay. Today my driver was a little bit off, but for the most part this week -- I got a brand new TaylorMade R11 driver and I've been hitting it really good. I missed a couple with it today but it's helped me a lot into the breeze, but today it wasn't so breezy out there.  
 Hopefully I bet back in the groove with that tomorrow and really looking forward to it. It will be good fun.   
  
  Q. Players a little uncertain as to how this Pro-Am format who work out. You looked like you were really getting into it?   
 DARREN CLARKE: Oh, Kevin was brilliant, our amateur partner today. He's a 3-handicapper from Woburn at home and he was fantastic. When was out of the hole, he picked it up. And not that he was out of that many; I think he made four or five birdies himself. He was brilliant, very nervous going out, but we had a really good time and he played great.   
  
  Q. Third round, 5-under par, 15-under par for the tournament; how pleased are you with yourself?  
 DARREN CLARKE: Pretty good. I had a lot of chances today. The back nine I gave myself a lot of chances from 10- to 15-foot and didn't make any of them until the last. But all in all, 15-under is pretty good. I'm excited about going into tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Seeing you on the course, get the impression you enjoyed it?  
 DARREN CLARKE: Very much so. We had good fun today with our amateur partner. He really enjoyed it, and both Paul and I played nicely. So all in all, it was a very good day.  
  
  Q. What are you expecting tomorrow for the final round?  
 DARREN CLARKE: Just go and play and hopefully have a bit of fun and play well and see where I finish come tomorrow afternoon.   
  
  Q. Talk about playing with Kevin in the format today?   
 DARREN CLARKE: Kevin was fantastic today. He was very nervous going to the first tee, but both Paul and myself hopefully made him feel very much at ease and he played very, very well. He's a good golfer, he's a 3-handicapper and when he calmed down a bit, he enjoyed himself.  
  
  Q. Do you think that having the amateurs joining you today in a way relaxed you?   
 DARREN CLARKE: I tend to enjoy the Pro-Ams anyway so, it was good fun, and Kevin really got into it. You know, he was a perfect amateur partner in a Pro-Am format. He picked up his ball when he was out of the hole, not that he was out of that many, but that obviously helps get on with things and really good, really nice guy.   
  
  Q. So you enjoyed it?   
 DARREN CLARKE: Yeah, it was good. For something different it was good.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT