THE SHARK SHOOTOUT
December 12, 2010
Darren Clarke
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DAVE SENKO: Darren and Graeme, thanks for coming in. I know you're on your way to going back home. Maybe just some quick thoughts on your day, and then we'll get some questions.  
 DARREN CLARKE: It's been fantastic. All week has been fantastic. You know, playing with G-Mack, I really enjoyed it. It's probably the most fun tournament I've had all year, so it's been absolutely brilliant.   
 You know, it's the first time I played in the tournament. What Greg and Merrill Lynch do, it's a brilliant event. I don't think we could have really had much more fun this week, apart from going out a little later in the evenings. The golf got in I way of that, so we had to behave.   
 But it's been a brilliant week, brilliant job.   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, absolutely concur with what Darren says, of course. It's my third year here. Merrill Lynch and Greg Norman, his company did a great job. Golf course, Tiburón, is the best I've seen in three years, and obviously raises some great money for charity.   
 Great crowds as well the last few days, and the weather was kind to us. I mean, we played as good as we possibly could today. We really threw everything at the boys. I'd say we made two mistakes: We didn't get it up-and-down on 7 from just short, and we didn't get it up-and-down on 10.  
 Apart from that, I can't say that we left too many out there. You know, the boys just did their job.  
 DAVE SENKO: Questions, guys.   
  
  Q. When you got back to two on 12, it looked like you were in at that point.   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, absolutely. I mean, we birdied 12 to get back to it in two. You know, we all birdied 13, 14. Ian followed us in on 15; Darren had a fabulous shot that nearly went in. Ian follows us in and makes the putt. You know, fair play. I mean, he's a great pressure player. He played the golf today, and Dustin hit a few bombs out there.   
 Like I say, they did their job. They did what they had to do. In that format, when the guys play well, you know, we shoot 59, it was really tough to do much more than that.   
  
  Q. So was 15 the one where it kind of just slammed the door?  
 DARREN CLARKE: A little bit. Yeah, you know, we were stiff and Pouls knew we were stiff and had a great shot in on top of us and holed a good 7-footer from a behind the hole right in the middle. You know, that was it. That was tough.   
  
  Q. The chip shot on 15 over the bunker, pretty skinny; that was a key spot there, too.   
 DARREN CLARKE: We were hoping was much tougher than it was. (Laughter.)   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, they obviously got a good break there. It was pretty unplayable actually above the bunker, but the club length that we get in scramble, you know, gave them a bit of a stance.   
 You know, Dustin didn't hit a very good pitch. Ian is one of the best chippers of the ball in the world, and he was the man for the job. He was pretty clutch today. He played great.   
 Like I say, 15, when Darren nearly holed it, you know, the door was open. To get within one with a few to go would've been a chance, but two behind was a bit of a difficult one.  
  
  Q. And your shot over the flag at 18, were you thinking for a second?  
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, you know, it was just one of those ones. I had to chose but to have a rip at the pin. I was kind of between clubs and went with a longer one. It just came in like a bullet right at it obviously.   
 You know, wasn't to be, and the boys did their job anyway.   
  
  Q. Club?  
 GRAEME McDOWELL: I had a 2-iron. With 200 yards back into the tee with the wind, it was playing about 225. Hit my 2-hybrid, and it just came out like a missile.   
 DARREN CLARKE: Can we go have a beer now?   
  
  Q. Yeah.   
 DARREN CLARKE: Thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT