3 IRISH OPEN
August 1, 2010
Darren Clarke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DARREN CLARKE: Overall, very good, I played really, really nicely again today, but I misjudged my second shot into 17 and I got a poor lie in the bunker, the fairway bunker there on 18, so I finished bogey, bogey yesterday and I finished bogey, bogey today. You know, that's disappointing way to finish the tournament.  
  
  Q. Regrets?  
 DARREN CLARKE: No. A lot of positives. I played really nicely. I'm very happy with the way I played.  
  
  Q. The venue, what's it been like for you?   
 DARREN CLARKE: I think it's been fantastic. I really hope that they decide to stay here for another couple of years. I think Killarney has come out on top. I think all of the people that said -- probably myself being one of them about the scoring, that the guys would take it apart, 20-under par, I don't think that's going to happen. I think the crowds we've had, the venue, all of the players love it. You know, ideally they keep the 3 Irish Open here, that would be great.   
 I think it's been a huge success having it here. You take a look at it, the course setup, the rough has not been too bad, so the guys have a go at it, and if they get the wrong side of the pins, they have no chance of making birdies. I think it's been hugely positive. The crowd is all in there.   
  
  Q. What has been the reaction from the other players?  
 DARREN CLARKE: Players love it. It's been great. Because the convenience of all the hotels right beside the location, you know, you can have a relaxing week; if you're partial to the odd pint, there's plenty of places to go in town; and if you don't, you've got the hotel there. The Hotel Europe has been fantastic this week. The hole thing has worked really well. That's my opinion and all of the players love it, as well.  
  
  Q. Will it help to bring other players back, a lot of guys are not here?  
 DARREN CLARKE: There is a lot of guys that are not here but that's tough, scheduling is always a different thing and guys have got their own schedules set out. It's tough to do it. But if you take a look at this week, I think we had a really good field.   
  
  Q. Will you go to the next tournament and say, listen, the Irish Open is back, Killarney is a great place, come and play?  
 DARREN CLARKE: Well, you could get more guys coming back that way. But you know, the sponsorship obviously that 3 put in is a huge prize fund and they have I think a fantastic venue. Let's hope they do stay here and some of those guys do come and play.  
  
  Q. The Irish Open is back more or less where it belongs; how about Darren Clarke?   
 DARREN CLARKE: I'm pleased with my golf. I'm really pleased with my golf. I've left an awful lot of shots out there this week, you know, obviously finishing bogey, bogey yesterday and bogey, bogey today, disappointing, but I'm happy and I can't wait to get out and play. I want to play and I feel as if I'm hitting so many good shots out there.   
 I just want to play.  
  
  Q. A lot to look forward to over the next few months?  
 DARREN CLARKE: This was an important week for me to get up there as far as I could. I played well enough.  
  
  Q. Feel something good coming on?   
 DARREN CLARKE: I do. I'm playing nicely. I'm working well with Brendan and hitting an awful lot of good shots. I'm not making as many putts as the chances I'm giving myself. I'm giving myself a lot of chances and just not taking them. All in all, it's come a long way from where I was in Paris a month ago. So I'm pleased. Obviously disappointed with the finish but I'm pleased.   
  
  Q. Why did you like Whistling Straits so much?  
 DARREN CLARKE: Because it's the closest thing they probably have to links, isn't it, it's one of those sort of courses. I'm going to fly out next Saturday and get a bit early.   
 Probably will be a different setup this time than last time but looking forward to getting back again.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT