CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK HOSPITALS CLASSIC
October 20, 2011
Derek Lamely
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Breezy day, but 6-under in the afternoon on the Mag is a pretty good start.   
 DEREK LAMELY: Yeah, great start.  
  
  Q. Maybe just talk about the round a little bit. (Indiscernible.)  
 DEREK LAMELY: Yeah, well, I mean, I think they're both playing probably interesting today. There was some gusty winds. Kind of started switching around a little bit in the afternoon. Made some of the holes pretty tricky. End up making some birdie holes, even if you didn't make birdie it was still all right.   
 But, no, I been hitting it better. I got off to a good start on 10. Had a little mud ball in the fairway and end up still making birdie and just kind of get it going.   
 Birdied the holes I should have. Made a good birdie on 16.  
 Misjudged a chip shot -- well, a second shot and a chip shot and a putt on 18 and made bogey.   
 And then, yeah, I mean, I played pretty good. Made couple swings that were kind of very reverting back at the end from some of changes I've been making. But other than that, pretty good.  
  
  Q. Without getting too technical, can you talk about the changes and when that occurred and when it started sort of the clicking in for you?   
 DEREK LAMELY: Actually got a new opinion Monday of Vegas.  
  
  Q. So recent?  
 DEREK LAMELY: Yeah, very recent. So I had a long-time teacher -- well, a guy I worked with many years ago, I went and saw him again. It was great. My body feels good again, so it's easy to make the changes and stuff again. So it's still not perfect, but it's significantly better - obviously.  
  
  Q. And maybe just summarize your year. Last PGA Tour event. You had a big week Greenbrier, I think.  
 DEREK LAMELY: Yeah, it was -- no, Greensboro.   
  
  Q. Greensboro, yeah.  
 DEREK LAMELY: Yeah, Greenbrier was kind of when I first started feeling good again. So just had wrist problems, back problems, ankle problem. So it's been a not-so-fun year. Game kind of left me due to that.   
 So game is coming back. Kind of wish it wasn't the last event of the year, but I still have next year and I still -- gives me a couple months to get things back to where I would really like them to be.   
  
  Q. Okay, well good luck and play good tomorrow.   
 DEREK LAMELY: Thank you.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT