PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY BANCO POPULAR
March 12, 2009
Derek Lamely
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   NELSON SILVERIO: Derek, thanks for spending a few minutes with us here. Currently in the lead. I believe you Monday qualified on the opposite course. Talk about your week so far going from Monday qualifying and leading up to the first round.   
 DEREK LAMELY: Pretty fun to be up here. I've always wanted to do this.  
 NELSON SILVERIO: Yeah.   
 DEREK LAMELY: No. Monday qualifying is the hard part. There's only four spots. There's always good players. So it could be anything to get through. So it's kind of hectic trying to figure out what you need to do to get through. And I played well enough to get through, obviously, and then the real fun starts to come in and try to learn the golf course in one practice round.   
 Fortunately, I had some friends out here and I got to talk to them on Monday night, and they kind of told me a little bit, couple things here and there. And then I got to play on Tuesday.   
 And luckily I got to go out and play nine Wednesday morning. I got to play at 6:30 before the Pro Am.   
 So it's just a long week, and early to bed and getting up at 5:30.   
 But it's a lot of fun. This is what I've wanted to do since I can't tell you when. This is what I've been trying to do for forever. So it's great.   
 It is a long week. Having to go Monday qualifying makes it a longer week, but it's great.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible question).  
 DEREK LAMELY: This year?   
  
  Q. Yes.   
 DEREK LAMELY: This is my fourth one. I've gotten through two of them. I lost in the playoffs in another one.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible question).   
 DEREK LAMELY: I think there's a lot of things, but yeah, I played well in finals. I played well all last year, and then I lost in the playoff in the Sony at the beginning of the year to get in.   
 I got in in Cancun a couple weeks ago, which is probably the bigger one. That was the one that helped because I got to go play, and it was really the first tournament I got to play in all year. So it really helped. I got to go home, work with my teacher for about a week on a couple things that I felt needed some work, and then I still had a week to practice and I got to come down here, so it works out well.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible question).   
 DEREK LAMELY: Yeah. It's kind of like Florida. It's windy. The weather is nice and warm. So I mean it's -- yeah. It's a lot like Florida, and it's a lot like Cancun. So it's more of what I'm used to. So it wouldn't be like going out to California. It would be a little harder for me.  
  
  Q. What was your best shot, the driver or the second shot? What was it?  
 DEREK LAMELY: I hit some good chips to help me save par on a couple holes to really kind of keep me going, and I made some good putts, so it was the first time I've actually made some putts --  
  
  Q. (Inaudible question).   
 DEREK LAMELY: Right. I've been putting well for a while, but nothing's really been going in.   
 A friend of mine works for Callaway, and he helped me out with a putter on Tuesday, and I started practicing with it Tuesday afternoon and Wednesday. And I put it in the bag Wednesday, and I putted well. It made a big difference, it seems like. At least it did today.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible question).  
 DEREK LAMELY: 28. I live in Fort Myers, Florida.   
 NELSON SILVERIO: Did you play college golf?   
 DEREK LAMELY: Yes.   
  
  Q. Where did you play?  
 DEREK LAMELY: I played college golf at Florida Gulf Coast University.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible question).   
 DEREK LAMELY: This would be my sixth. Started playing in '04.   
 NELSON SILVERIO: All set? All right. Derek, thanks a lot.   
 DEREK LAMELY: Thank you, guys.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT