THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 28, 2011
Derek Lamely
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 5-under par. Nice start.   
 DEREK LAMELY: Yep, start was good. So the front nine was a little scratchy, so I had trouble playing good on the front. (Indiscernible) kind of pulled us along a little bit and kind of got us going.   
 You know, it was -- I kind of got a little more settled on the back and made five birdies.  
  
  Q. What did you think of the course?  
 DEREK LAMELY: I liked it last year. Definitely more difficult this year. The greens are much firmer. Actually, I liked it last year and I like it even more this year.  
  
  Q. Take a while to get a feel for the greens?  
 DEREK LAMELY: Actually, I played yesterday afternoon Pro-Am, so I actually had a pretty good feel going in. So that was kind of a plus.   
 They were a little softer than they were yesterday afternoon, but I don't think that's -- I think they'll be back to being just like they were yesterday afternoon probably starting pretty soon.  
  
  Q. Birdies that stand out today?   
 DEREK LAMELY: 9 maybe; my chip in was really good. Had a great lie. It was as easy of a chip as you could ever hope for.   
 And even on 8. So 235, and I hit it three or four feet, so those two were really good.  
 Probably the best one was just on 4 just to kind of get it going. So that was probably the one that definitely spurred everything. Got the momentum going the right way.  
  
  Q. How far was that?  
 DEREK LAMELY: Ten feet maybe, eight, ten feet, something like that.  
  
  Q. And your season so far this year?  
 DEREK LAMELY: Hasn't been pretty. (Laughter.) Yeah, I've had some issues of my own. You know, I've had some good work. You know, everything has finally been going the right way.   
 I haven't seen a whole lot results for the last month, but everything has definitely progressed and gotten much better.   
  
  Q. Derek, nice, calm, easy round. Twelve straight pars. Just kind of going through it all. What happened? You birdied five of the last six.   
 DEREK LAMELY: Well, it wasn't that easy on the front. Actually had one pitch-out where I ended up getting up and down for par from 100 yards. So wasn't all that easy in those 12 holes.  
 But, no, actually had some good opportunities on the back and early on the front. Just didn't really capitalize. Made all the ones I needed to for par. Finally got one to go in and took the lid off.  
  
  Q. How good is lunch going to taste when you chip in for birdie on the last hole?   
 DEREK LAMELY: Yeah, making birdie when it was a 235-yard par-3 before that. Yeah, it'll be good.   
  
  Q. You've been struggling. You've been fighting it a little bit. Are you feeling like you're starting to see something, and what is it that you're seeing?  
 DEREK LAMELY: I'm just hitting some good shots again. I'm not going to put it on anything. Just I hit it bad. You know., my golf swing kind of got messed up through injuries or whatever, and, you know, myself and my caddie, Jason, and Jim Suttie, we've done a bunch of stuff.   
 You know, it's been getting better every week, every day, so just I haven't seen anything of it.  
  
  Q. Did you try to do something extra when you finally won in Puerto Rico? A lot of guys will try to change things after they win.   
 DEREK LAMELY: No, I didn't really try and change things. I was actually hurt at the end of '09, so I kind of found something for that month. Thought I played well.   
 You know, other than that, my swing really did get off. By winter, I didn't practice that whole winter. Did a lot stuff in the gym just stretching and trying to do a lot of stuff.   
 I've actually had some issues off and on over the last year, so I'm feeling pretty good and got things coming back.   
  
  Q. Off to a great start this week. Good luck to you.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT