PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY BANCO POPULAR
March 14, 2010
Derek Lamely
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   NELSON SILVERIO: Let's get started. Talk about your day, your round.   
 DEREK LAMELY: I hit a bad drive on the first hole, on 10. I had a little melon ball that went between the palm trees, I hit a really good shot, just kind of had a good shot. So I gave myself some opportunities for birdies.   
  
  Q. How is the course holding up with all the rain we've had?  
 DEREK LAMELY: It's getting better. Last year when I played it was really firm, really fast.   
 You gotta play the golf course. It's still wet and still run out. Still the same golf shot. So in that respect it's holding up great.  
  
  Q. Good vibes coming back here? Last year carry over?  
 DEREK LAMELY: You know, it's a whole new tournament with the fact that the golf course is soft, but it helps more in the respect of I've been through six time zones and 16 courses in like two months, so I think this week I've already seen the course.   
 I got to relax a little bit. I got to rest a little more. I haven't had to work so hard. I think that's one of the reasons my body's feeling better. I feel like I have more energy, and I feel better the last couple months. I got hurt the end of last year. So just kind of a couple different things.   
 So kind of my game's kind of coming back. So yeah, my game coming back and the rest I think that's kind of -- I think that's a big key.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).   
 DEREK LAMELY: You know, I think things just kind of went a little better. The shots just getting a little more rested. The shots are getting a little better. My brain's working a little better. I think I just got so beat up there for a little while, just traveling all the time.   
 I took the red eye a couple times. Monday, crawling in golf courses you haven't seen. You get to a point where you don't have a whole lot of energy. You kind of get a little -- you get grumpy easier. I think you just kind of -- it doesn't lend yourself to playing as well as you need to out here.   
 So I think -- I think being rested and my attitude's definitely better. I think just having more energy and just everything. I think has a lot to do with it.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).   
 DEREK LAMELY: Make a lot of birdies. (Laughs).   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).   
 DEREK LAMELY: For whatever reason, when I get on the greens, I can really see the lines. You know, I feel really comfortable on the greens in that respect, speed, speed of the greens. I've got greens like this at home. So for whatever reason, I feel like my lines are good. My speed is pretty good here. Just kind of a good fit.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT