SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
November 2, 2017
Kim Meen-Whee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What a terrific round, 6-under 65.  You just played beautifully from tee to green.  When you did miss a green, you got it up-and-down.  Talk a little bit about your form today?
KIM MEEN-WHEE: Yeah, I think I played pretty decent.  It was pretty calm in the morning for the first nine holes, and as soon as I finished our 12th hole, the wind picked up.  It was a little tougher, so I missed a couple tee shots on the last few holes.  But I think I had a really good up and down there.
Q. You were fourth in the CJ Cup over in South Korea.  You're 27th in the FedExCup.  What does it mean to you to get off to such a great start for this wraparound schedule?
KIM MEEN-WHEE: Yes, like you said, it's a nice start.  I feel more comfortable.  I played really good, and my fans were really happy.  I finished fourth in South Korea for my first event.  Yeah, it's nice.  I think I'm in a really good position on Thursday right here in Las Vegas.  I feel really comfortable.  Just happy.
Q. We look forward to seeing what you can do the rest of the week.  All the best.
KIM MEEN-WHEE: Thank you so much.
Q. Nice performance to start the morning.  It looked like it was one of those smooth rounds from outside the ropes.  What was it like for you inside the ropes?
KIM MEEN-WHEE: It was very comfortable, no bogeys, six birdies, that was a good start.  I think I judged pretty good the wind.  It was actually so easy in the morning because there was no wind.  Little cold, but soft conditions.  But as soon as I finished the 12th hole, when I was on 13th tee ground it was like hard wind, so I tried to control the trajectory, and I think I did pretty good.
Q. At what point during the round could you tell with how you were hitting it?
KIM MEEN-WHEE: Well, I had a really good putting all day.  Didn't miss any putts.  I think I didn't do any stupid mistakes all day.  I think that was key.  The greens were a little slower than what I expected like the last two years.  But it was still fast and firm.  It's going to be more firm in the afternoon.  But the wind is coming up, so I think it's okay.
Q. You mentioned you were fourth place in Korea.  How was that confidence-wise being among your fans and getting things to go forward coming here as well?
KIM MEEN-WHEE: Yeah, well, it was a big event.  I think that was a really good home advantage.  I played really good.  So they told me every single hole I finished they would tell me cheer up, cheer up.  Keep it up, keep it up.  That was really powerful.  So it did really good.  I think the good tournaments are coming in for me.
Q. You've had a couple of near finishes and near wins.  How have those experiences steeled you, if you will, for another chance here this week?
KIM MEEN-WHEE: Well, I think it's the first time I started leading the tournament on Thursday.  I feel much comfortable after I finished fourth and very strong in South Korea.  Trying to keep it up like that momentum.  So still trying to work hard.  I think I'm not going to change any plans for the next three days, so we'll be okay.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT