NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v SPURS
May 24, 2014
Patrick Mills
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Well, what do you expect up there?   Ibaka is probably going to play, it's going to be crazy up there.   I'm sure you've been filled in on the history that the Spurs were‑‑ this team has been here before, up 2‑0 and then got stunned with four straight.   
PATTY MILLS:   Yeah, I think we remember that well being in this position a couple of years ago, and we're back in it again, but we're going to expect‑‑ the same thing pretty much, Western Conference Finals basketball, we're going to their home now, and they're going to be loud and crazy like they usually are, and they always play great in front of their home crowd, so expecting nothing less than a great performance from them.   
I think it's going to be important for us to not react to their first punch.   I think it's important that we come out swinging, as well, and not be the ones reacting.   It's going to be very tough, but like I said, Western Conference Finals basketball for sure.  
   
 Q.   Given the success you guys have had on the road, does it give you a little more confidence going anywhere on the road in the Playoffs?  
PATTY MILLS:   Yeah, look, road games, especially in the Playoffs, they're always going to be tough.   They're going to be more tough than any other games.   But knowing that we've been here before and losing that, I think that's really in the back of our minds and what we need to do to take care of business.   And like I said, it's going to be very tough, and we respect them and we respect everyone that's playing and the game plan, but we've got to execute and do what we have been doing well.   
   
 Q.   Given how well you guys have played the first two games, does it kind of matter to you if Ibaka plays or not?  
PATTY MILLS:   No, I don't think so.   I think if anything it's great that he plays.   No one wants to be sitting out of any playoff game.   I was in that situation last year in The Finals having to miss out, and it's a horrible feeling, so I can imagine how bad he wants to play, and it's good.   It's going to be great.   We want to play against the best, and we're going to play against a strong‑‑ fully‑strength side, so him coming back is going to be great, and I'm looking forward to it.  
   
 Q.   It was almost a foregone conclusion as far as you guys were concerned, right?   You all expected him to come back sooner or later?   I know Tony kept saying I don't believe it.   Even Game 1, he said I believe he's still going to be out there and stuff.   
PATTY MILLS:   Yeah, and like you said, when you're this far into the season, when you've come this far, nothing is going to hold you back.   Obviously Tony is going through injuries that he's playing with, with his hamstring and stuff.   Yeah, no surprise, really.   You do whatever you can to get out on the court and play at this part of the season, and I think he's in that situation.  
   
 Q.   What's it like to be in that locker room and a few minutes before you go out for the last time before the game starts when you look and you've got Tim Duncan, you've got Manu Ginobili, you've got Tony Parker, three guys that have won more playoff games than anybody else, any other trio in the history of the NBA.   What is it like to have that kind of experience in big games on your side?   
PATTY MILLS:   Yeah, it's great to have.   Everyone else on the team is very lucky and fortunate to be in this position.   It's an opportunity for us to learn from those guys.   We don't know how much longer they're all going to be around together, so this is the opportunity to grab their knowledge and go with it.   Obviously they've got a great playoff record, and they're great teammates, great leaders and great to have as friends, and on the flipside of that, I think us younger guys give them a good boost of energy, let them know that we've got their back and we'll follow their lead in any way, and I think that's been really an underestimated factor throughout the couple of years here.   They're great leaders, and we're following their lead.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT