LAVER CUP
September 22, 2019
Taylor Fritz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Where would you rate your performance today and the result of this match?
TAYLOR FRITZ: I played very solid. You know, I played really well. Maybe not the best sometimes in the first set to put myself down a lot of breakpoints, but, you know, down those breakpoints I found very solid tennis.
End of the first set, really great tennis. In the 10-point breaker, I played amazing.
It's just a really big win and a massive win for our team. It means so much more when it's a win for all of us and not just myself.
Q. But on the actual win for yourself, if you had to rate it, where would you put it?
TAYLOR FRITZ: It's one of my best, for sure. You know, I have had a couple top 10 wins and I have had a couple of close matches with Dominic, so I knew I was capable.
But, yeah, it's definitely one of my best wins. When you take into account the occasion of, you know, whoever wins that match, you know, is one win away from winning the Laver Cup, so when you take into account the occasion of the match, it was one of my biggest wins ever.
Q. How soon or late or whatever did you know that you were going to be going out there to play? And your thoughts going when you were told?
TAYLOR FRITZ: Maybe about when the doubles was starting, so maybe two hours before, I was told, Hey, get ready, you might be playing.
So that's kind of when I went into the mode of -- you know, I don't like to think the "might," so I just told myself I'm going to play. So I started getting ready.
So two hours before. And then I was told for sure I'm going, like, for sure, I knew about 30, 45 minutes before I stepped out there. But I already had been getting ready for two hours.
Q. And the experience of having these guys alongside you, teammates like John and Nick and Jack and then having John and Patrick as captain and vice-captain, has it been a bit of a pinch-me moment?
TAYLOR FRITZ: I mean, it's been great. You know, I told Nick before we even got here I was so excited to have him on the bench, and also have him come up and kind of talk me through the matches, because a lot of people don't realize how, like, how much of a genius he is when it comes to tennis strategy and tennis knowledge. He's very, very smart.
So just the energy that everyone's brought to me to pump me up, and then also -- I mean, having JMac as the coach gets me kind of nervous, honestly, because I don't want to screw up. I don't want to let him down. I don't want to let the team down. The nerves run so much higher when you're playing for a whole team and not just yourself.
There is so much more on the line. I'm the kind of person that really doesn't want to let my team down. It's just been great to feel the energy and have them help me on the court. That got me through today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT