LAVER CUP
September 22, 2019
Taylor Fritz
John McEnroe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You have won a tour event before. Explain what that was just like.
TAYLOR FRITZ: That was just such a big match for Team World to win. We really needed that win. So now we're four points in the lead, one more match for the win. It was just so crucial.
To let my team down on the first day and to come back today and just contribute to the team and show up like that, just give my team the win, it means everything to me.
Q. It's been a strange day. We weren't expecting you to come on out, and I don't think at one point you were. How, in your own mind, did you get yourself ready to come out and play so well?
TAYLOR FRITZ: Well, you know, luckily last night I got a good night's sleep. I did all the right things. I felt pretty good this morning.
You know, maybe two hours before, Nick came to me, said he wasn't feeling great and I might need to hop in. So I hopped on the practice court, got ready. Felt like I was hitting the ball well, prepared for my match.
That's just how it goes sometimes. I was ready to go.
Q. Where do you rate that in terms of your short career so far?
TAYLOR FRITZ: This has to be one of the biggest wins of my career, just because it's just -- it means so much to do it for the team. Tennis is an individual sport, so you're usually just playing for yourself. It means so much more when you're playing for other people, as well.
Q. You go back inside now, and you guys have got a good lead. What do you do and say to John Isner as he's about to come out and take on Roger Federer? What are you going to say to him?
TAYLOR FRITZ: I'm just going to tell him to go after it. My job's done on the court, and I just have to get on the bench and go nuts with these guys.
Q. We are going to wander over here and talk to John McEnroe. John, what a day this has been. It's been an incredible turnaround. You have had plenty of fire out there. You have driven your guys so well.
CAPTAIN JOHN McENROE: Well, we have been battling ever since this Laver Cup started. We got a break going our way. Expect the unexpected. We didn't know that Rafa was going to play. I wasn't sure about Nick in the morning, and so here we are now, but one more and we've got this thing.
Q. What do you say to a young guy like that who has just come out under extreme pressure and just played flawlessly?
CAPTAIN JOHN McENROE: Well, first of all, Taylor played really well the other day. He was a bit unlucky to lose that one. He's a great teammate. He called me months ago and said he wanted to be part of this.
So I'm happy and proud that I could sit there and see him battle the way he did. He played awesome. Dominic picked it up big, and he had to step it up in that tiebreaker. It was an awesome way to end it.
Q. And John next?
TAYLOR FRITZ: John knows something about holding serve. Roger, he's not too bad, either. So we know what we're up against. It's going to be a hell of a battle.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT