NATURE VALLEY INTERNATIONAL
June 29, 2019
Taylor Fritz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
T. FRITZ/S. Querrey   
6-3, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Congratulations.  How special was that?  
TAYLOR FRITZ: It's, like, it's unbelievable.  The feeling still hasn't fully set in.   
I have wanted to win a title for so long, ever since making the final in Memphis when I was so young.  So it's been -- you know, I have been thinking about it for a long time.  I'm so happy I final got it.   
 Q.  You seemed very relaxed on match point, as well, the final game.  
TAYLOR FRITZ: Yeah, I don't know.  It was weird, because I was very nervy in my quarterfinal and semifinal, I think.  Maybe that's just because I have been expecting myself to get to the final.  I have lost a lot of quarterfinals and semifinals, so maybe those matches I was a little, like, I really don't want to lose these.   
But, yeah, I surprised myself today with how I came out the whole match.  I felt so calm, so relaxed.  I just tried to take it one point at a time.  I tried to not think about winning the title.  I just tried to, you know, stay calm.  When I stepped up to serve out the match, I felt totally relaxed.   
 Q.  What allowed you to be able to handle that?  Just experience?  
TAYLOR FRITZ: I think I'm -- I have just kind of always been like that.  That's how I am.  I think some people handle pressure well and handle big moments well.   
I think that's always been one of my strengths.  That's how I won my first two challengers I ever won.  Just everyone was playing -- everyone was dominating me, but I was just winning the big points.  That's how I made the finals in Memphis.  That's how I got through my quarterfinal and semifinal here.  So it's always been a big part of my game.   
 Q.  How old were you for the Memphis final?  Is that your only other final?  
TAYLOR FRITZ: Yeah.  I was 18, and it was my second ATP 250 event.   
So when you have success that early on, you start expecting -- for me, anyway, once I do something once, I start expecting it to be a more regular thing.   
So it's caused me a lot of unease, I guess you could say, over the past couple of years that I haven't been able to win a title.  It's been on my mind a lot.  So I feel like a huge weight has been lifted off, winning my first title.   
 Q.  You seemed to be able to find the first serve when it mattered the most.  Do you think you are mentally stronger this week?  
TAYLOR FRITZ: Yeah, like I just said, I feel like I can always come up with my best in the big moments, or if I'm not playing my best, I can just kind of find a way to tough it out and come through in those moments.   
It's one of the biggest strengths that I have.  Yeah, it's just coming up with what I need when I need it.   
 Q.  You mentioned the Memphis final.  Even though you're only 21, how much does this all feel like a long time coming because of that?  
TAYLOR FRITZ: Incredibly long.  And I said that (smiling).  It feels funny to say I have been waiting for a long time to win a title when I'm only 21, but when you, you know, have that idea of I could have won a title when I was 18, it's in my head for a long time, wanting to get that first title.   
So it's just, like I said, a huge weight lifted off my shoulders.   
 Q.  There is clearly a lot more to your game than just your serve.  I wonder if that was the key?  You seemed to be moving a little better than Sam and have a little more variety in your game.  I also wonder if being on a grass court where things happen so quickly that might help you, because there isn't really time to think or plot your way around the court?  
TAYLOR FRITZ: I'm not sure about the time thinking, because, I mean, before, before this week, you know, I thought my best surface was clay (smiling).   
 Q.  Really?  
TAYLOR FRITZ: I mean, I have no clue.  I always felt -- when I was younger, I thought it was grass and hard, and then since I turned pro I thought it was clay.  Now maybe I'm leaning towards grass (smiling).   
I don't know.  But I am someone who doesn't really doubt their shots.  I see my chance and I like to take it, so I guess grass does reward the quick-thinking and no-hesitation game that I like to play.   
Yeah, you know, I have a very -- you know, serve is one of the strongest parts of my game, but there is a lot more to my game than just the serve.  I like to attack with my forehand, work points with my backhand, use my slice, come in to net, use my dropshot.  I like to do a bit of everything.   
I have been working hard to expand the variety of my game so I can kind of do a little bit of everything and be good on all surfaces.   
 Q.  You've worked with your current coach, Paul Annacone, for a while now.  What have you learned from him?  
TAYLOR FRITZ: Well, I'm with Paul and David Nainkin.  I don't want to take any credit away from David because he's been with me since I turned pro.   
One thing we have all worked on as a team so much is working on my net game and coming in to net more, because with the big groundstrokes, you get a lot of, you know, balls that you can finish the point at net.  So it's been a long process trying to work on that.   
We are still working on it.  We have worked a lot on my serve consistency, because one thing that's been a problem about me winning a title or going deep is I'll serve good, serve good, serve good, and then just have one day where I can't put a serve in the court.  We have worked a lot on that.   
My serve's improved so much.  That's one thing I stress to them as a player, telling the coach, is I want to improve, you know, where I'm not that good but I also want to strengthen my best shots so they become even more dominant, and so that's something we have all worked on.  And also tons of work in the gym, getting stronger, getting faster.  Yeah, it's all showing.   
 Q.  Do you find it is more of a help or hindrance when you play someone you know so well like Sam?  
TAYLOR FRITZ: I'm not sure.  Some situations it's good; some situations it's bad.  I think because I've played him so much I was maybe a little more on to his serve than other people would be.  But I'm sure it worked the other way.  He would have been on to mine, as well.   
Playing someone who you know, it doesn't really matter.  I got super used to it in the juniors, playing tons of Americans.  I don't mind it too much, but, yeah, certain tricks and things I do, I can't do because Sam knows that I'm going to do it.   
But it also helps me know, certain shots that I hit every single time in practice, I know he'll expect me to hit that.  So certain points I can do something that's very unlike me and know that he won't really expect it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT