U.S. OPEN
August 29, 2016
Taylor Fritz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. SOCK/T. Fritz
7-6, 7-5, 3-6, 1-6, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. I know it's a tough one to lose.  After Australia, you were positive after that match because it showed you you could stay at that level.  What do you take from this?
TAYLOR FRITZ: You know, I've always been a fighter and someone who competes till the end.  I don't know what I really take from it.  I think I've proven I can come back from two sets to love down; never really out of it.
It's just really tough to do everything that I did, get back to the point where I was at, and then after all that lose the match.
Q. Must be hard to go from day to night on a court.  Were there visual conditions that were difficult?
TAYLOR FRITZ: In the very, very beginning of the match, first set, it was kind of tough with the shadows that were coming across the court, but those went away pretty quick.
So I think the whole second set and on the shade covered the court, so it wasn't tricky with the sun in your eyes or anything.
Q. How about the color of Jack's shirt?  Does the ball ever get lost in that?
TAYLOR FRITZ: No.  Didn't seem like that to me.  I mean, I was wearing the same shirt, so...
Q. Looked so similar.
TAYLOR FRITZ: Never.  Didn't see a ball come out and thought, Wow, the shirt did something.  I never even thought that was an issue at all.
Q. What's next for you?
TAYLOR FRITZ: I play doubles here.  Afterwards I'm going to have a couple weeks to myself to just train and get stronger.  It's been a while since I've had a nice long training block to get stronger and really improve my game.
So I'll do that.
Q. Where will you do that?
TAYLOR FRITZ: Probably in Carson.
Q. Do you work at all with Christian Groh anymore?
TAYLOR FRITZ: When I'm in San Diego we work, but I'll be in Carson, USTA.
Q. Does he work with you at Carson, too?
TAYLOR FRITZ: No.  At Carson I work with mainly David Nainkin, and Mardy Fish comes in sometimes, too, to supplement and help out.
Then my first tournament back is going to be in Tokyo.
Q. You're a little bit further along in the year now.  Quite a bit further along.  In January you were looking ahead.  What do you think you've gotten in this year so far?
TAYLOR FRITZ: I've had a lot of ups and downs in this year.  I feel like overall when I look back at it, it's better than I expected.  I have to be proud of being where I'm at at the age I'm at.
It's tough because I just set the expectations so high for myself.  I want to do better and I want to do more than I've done.  Didn't want to have any of the lows in the season.
At the end of the day, need to step back and look at the big picture.  I'm 18; I'm 50 something in the world.  It's way farther than I thought I'd be at this point a year ago.  I have to stay positive and keep looking at the positives that I can take out of this year, and there are a lot.
Q. What are the tournament highlights of this year for you?
TAYLOR FRITZ: Memphis, for sure.  Memphis and Acapulco were two great tournaments for me.  I've been to a lot of great places.
But towards the end of this season I haven't had the results I've been looking for, even though I felt like I've been playing some pretty decent tennis.
I'm not too worried, though.  I think if I keep playing well, the results will come.  It's just I've had some close matches I've lost and some tough draws.  I'm not too worried.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT