ATP CUP
January 5, 2020
Taylor Fritz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. KHACHANOV/T. Fritz
3-6, 7-5, 6-1
Russia - 1
United States - 0
Q. Really well played in the first set. Could you just give me an assessment of the performance overall?
TAYLOR FRITZ: Yeah, I started out like the first set and a half playing like just really, really well. I was stepping into everything. I felt like I couldn't miss a backhand, was hitting it really hard and cross, and then just like anytime I kind of got a look at a forehand, I was just crushing it. It felt great. It's definitely like I was thinking like this is the kind of tennis that I like envision myself playing and I want myself to play. But as the match went on I felt like he made some adjustments in the point structuring, started moving his backhand line a bit more. As the balls are getting worn out, I felt it was a lot tougher for me to penetrate through. I felt like I wasn't getting as many free points off my serves. He started serving a bit better. He just made some adjustments and I didn't quite keep my level.
Q. Did you feel as if you had got to the second set tiebreak it might have been yours in straight sets?
TAYLOR FRITZ: It could have been. But the real chance was at 3-2, it was the ball, it was the game before the ball change and I had 30-love that game and I got broken. At 30-15 I had a really good look at a forehand inside in that I wouldn't, like I just wouldn't usually miss ever and missed it. And if I make that, I'm probably going to hold that game and then I'll have new balls and I'm two service games and new balls away from winning the match. So I think that's where the match was, that's where I really could have given myself the best chance to win, is just hold there.
Q. Having played the way that you did, particularly in that first set and a half, does that give you confidence for the rest of the week?
TAYLOR FRITZ: I think it just, it gives me confidence like I know where I belong. I don't think I really needed the confidence though. I feel, I'm not surprised with how I played and I know that's where my level of tennis is. It's hanging with those guys that are in the Top-20, and I think that's where I belong. I just need to as the year goes on maintain that level literally for 10 more minutes and then I'll win the match.
Q. You hit 11 aces for $1100 for the bush fire victims --
TAYLOR FRITZ: Awesome.
Q. -- how important is it for tennis players to pledge their support?
TAYLOR FRITZ: Well it's great what the tournament's doing. I think I served eight the other day, so it's almost already $2,000 that I've helped contribute to this. It's something -- it's great to see that it's finally getting some awareness outside of Australia. Worldwide, people are pitching in and doing their part. So it's awesome that I can just serve aces and help out.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT