ATP CUP
January 7, 2020
Taylor Fritz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. TRAVAGLIA/T. Fritz   
7-6, 7-6   
Italy - 1   
United States - 0   
 Q.  It's a tough loss tonight, he served really well. Did you think you could do anything differently?  
TAYLOR FRITZ: That's what I've been trying to figure out the last like 20 minutes is what I could have done differently, but no, like from the ground I think maybe I just could have tried to be a little more aggressive, but with how like worn out the balls were getting, I didn't feel like really confident like driving the ball. I feel like when the balls get worn out it's tough to kind of do anything. And then when I -- and I, the ball, like it's tougher for me to control the ball a bit, so I just felt like in both those tiebreaks I was just kind of playing within the margins that I felt comfortable playing in and not missing. And he was hurting me serving really well. So it's one of those matches where I kind of just kind of have to say, too good.   
 Q.  When you look at your three singles matches this week they may not have all gone your way but what positives can you take out of this week?  
TAYLOR FRITZ: I think the biggest positive I can take out is how I played for the set and a half against Karen the other day. I thought I played really good tennis. I was playing how I want to play and if I play like that, I know I'll be able to have a lot of big results this year, go deep in tournaments, and kind of push towards my goals of like being top 10 or top-20, top-15, going deep in the big tournaments. So it's good that I know have I that level right now, I know that I'm capable of playing that level, but, yeah, today he just, he played so well, it was tough to do anything.   
 Q.  Have you enjoyed the ATP Cup experience overall, just the general feeling, fact that you're on a team and everything like that?  
TAYLOR FRITZ: Yeah, it's awesome. It's unfortunate how the week went for us. I think losing to Norway the first day kind of really took the wind out of our sails as a team, just because that was, we're in such a tough group, that was one that we really needed to win and especially after I won the first match, so it just, it, I think that hurt us, but I think, I mean I'm really excited to come back next year and give it another go and contribute as much as I can to the team and I could see us going deep, it's just that's what's good about this event, it's very, I feel like anything can happen.   
 Q.  What's your plans for the next week and a half before the Australian Open?  
TAYLOR FRITZ: Well, now I have some time before I play, I go to Adelaide and play, but I have a couple of extra days, so I'll probably just get in the gym, work out a lot, touch up on some things I feel like I can work on and just train a bit since I have a little bit of extra time before either Monday or Tuesday when I play.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT