THE LPGA DRIVE ON CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY VOLVIK
March 5, 2021
Carlota Ciganda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. (Wind interference) 65.  To us watching it seems so effortless.  Does it feel effortless to you when you shoot a number like that?
 CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Today I played great.  I think playing golf is never a promise.  I think always have to grind. And, yeah, hit some good shots.  Yeah, I feel comfortable since yesterday.
 I thought my driver was pretty good.  Hits lots of greens.  I think with two bogeys, but I was happy finishing 1-under in the afternoon, and I knew I was playing good.
 And, today, yeah, I just hit some good shots, make a few good putts.  That's always helps.  Yeah, very happy with my round.
 Q. You spoke about playing in the afternoon yesterday.  What are some of the differences you saw from playing in the afternoon to the morning?
 CARLOTA CIGANDA:   In the morning I think greens are better; you can make more putts.  (Wind interference) In the afternoon the back nine I think it's harder to make some putts because everyone has played the course and these greens are quite (Wind interference.)  I think you have to be very patient out there.
 I mean, I just really like playing in the afternoon because I like sleeping in, so I like my afternoon rounds.  I don't like getting up that early.  Today, I mean, it was 5:00 am and I wasn't very sleepy, so I think it's going to be a good round today.
 Q. Terry McNamara back on the bag for you.  How comfortable are you now that he's back, and does it give you more confidence?
 CARLOTA CIGANDA:   I love Terry.  I think he's one of the best guys out here.  He's peaceful, calm, and I really like that.  All the experience and all the tournaments that he's won, I mean, he (indiscernible).
 So, yeah, we are back together.  I'm very happy.  I do want to send a (indiscernible - machinery) because he had heart surgery last I think two, three weeks ago and he's recovering, so hopefully he's doing better.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT