MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY DANA
August 7, 2020
Carlota Ciganda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Carlota, how do you feel about your round today?
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah, very happy.  I think I played very tidy, very smart.  Hit lots of greens, gave myself lots of birdie chances.
Yeah, I made four birdies, one bogey, same as yesterday.  Pretty happy.
Q. Yeah, speaking of four birdies and one bogey, what are you looking for tomorrow in terms of birdie chances?
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah, I'm just going to try to do the same.  Try to hit as many fairways, as many greens, give myself lots of chances, and hopefully I can make a few more putts and be there for Sunday.
Q. And yesterday you had a later round; today an earlier round.  How did the course change?
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah, so yesterday was playing a little more firmer.  The ball was flying a bit more.  Today seven feet still the ball wasn't flying as much.  The greens were really nice and very pure.
The course is in great shape.  Played a little longer this morning, but I love this place and, yeah, it's been great.
Q. You have two more rounds.  How does it feel to adjust compared to last week's three rounds?  How does it feel to come back to the tour and have four and rounds again?
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah, I like playing four rounds.  I think it's the normal for a golf tournament.  Yeah, two more days to keep going up in the leaderboard, keep making birdies, to keep hitting good shots.
It's just nice to be out again and to be able to play golf events.
Q. Last question:  Just curious, what do you do to relax?  What are you going to do tonight to relax and get ready for tomorrow?
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah, I played late/early, so that's a lot of golf in 24 hours.  I'm just going to take it easy.
Q. Listen to music?
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah.  I mean, I love watching golf, so I might Rory and Tiger and Justin Thomas play the PGA Championship.
I mean, just relax, some stretching, talk to my family, have a nice dinner.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT