NORTH TEXAS LPGA SHOOTOUT
April 26, 2013
Carlota Ciganda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome Carlota Ciganda back to the interview room today.   1‑under par 70, but you said you actually really played well today.   Just talk about your round.   
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah, I started playing really good my first five holes, hitting really close to the tee.   And I even made those putts for birdie, but I birdied No. 4, the par‑3.   So I was 1‑under after six, and then I made two bogeys on 8 and 9.   I even hit the green and I couldn't make the putts, but then I played really solid the back nine, shooting 2‑under, and I think that's good because the conditions were not easy.   The wind is picking up and it was raining a little bit, so I'm happy with my round.  
THE MODERATOR:   That was my next question, the conditions.   You're the first player we've talked to today.   Just how different was it today versus Thursday?   
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yesterday was windy, too.   Today the only thing it was more cold and it was playing a little bit longer maybe.   But I mean it's a course which it can be really windy.   It's not easy to putt well because it's uncomfortable.   They are big greens out there.   So just try to hit it as close as possible and then tried to make some putts.  
THE MODERATOR:   Just if you would, just take us through how you got involved in the game of golf.   
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   I started when I was five years old, so very young.   And I live very close from my golf course which is a small town called Lorenzo which is 20 minutes from Pamplona.   And I started with my dad and his friends.   They used to play golf every day, and I used to go with my dad all the time.   So I still play with them and they play really good golf and I really enjoy my time playing with them.   So it's great.   Thanks to them I'm here.  
THE MODERATOR:   And just tell us, you mentioned to me on the walk up, your caddy is a very good friend of yours.   How does that relationship work?   
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah.   He's now my caddy; he's a really good friend of mine.   He is helping me a lot.   He started last year with me in Turkey.   So we have been for one year, and last year it was great, but this year has also been really good.   He's really close, always happy to help, and it's a big help for me because we travel together and it's very nice to have a friend always with you.   So I'm very thankful to Javi because he has a lot of patience.   
THE MODERATOR:   And what's his name?   
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Javier Urquizu.   
THE MODERATOR:   If we have any questions for Carlota, we'll take them with the microphone.   One more from me.   You mentioned for the last eight weeks you've been here in the States.   Obviously a little bit different than playing the European Tour.   What's your favorite thing about being over here and maybe any interesting experiences you've had since you've been traveling here in the United States?   
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah.   I've been here for the last seven weeks, and I really like the U. S.   It's a great country.   I studied here, and I mean I love it here because everything is easy.   I mean the courses we play, they are great and the people are very, very nice.   
I just take my weeks off in Arizona, which it was really nice to go back there and see my friends.   And Europe, it's nice, too, because I am closer from home and I can go home in the weeks off.   But I love it here and I think the future is to be here.   So I'll be playing in the U. S. and Europe this year, and then next year I'll try to go more here.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned that some of the putts weren't going in.   If you look at your numbers, you had the same number of fairways, same number of greens.   Were there long putts you weren't making or some short ones you weren't making ou there?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   I think they were hitting a little bit closer to the pin, so I made a few shorter ones, but then I also made two ones for birdie on No. 4 and 16.   So I would be happier with a few more putts if they would drop in.   But I mean I'm happy with my round.   I think I played similar to yesterday.   Just those putts that didn't go in, that's the difference.  
   
 Q.   What was the length on the long one?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   On hole No. 4, the par‑3, it was about five meters, about 16 feet.   And then 16, about the same, four or five meters.   
   
 Q.   And how much when you play in Europe, how does that affect your schedule over here and traveling overall this year?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah, I'm going to go next week back home.   So I'll stay there for one week, and then in May I'm going to play in Europe.   I'm going to play in Turkey, Holland and Germany, so I won't be playing here in May.   
And then I'll come for the LPGA Championship for the women's in June.   And I'll play those three events, the LPGA, the one in Arkansas and then the U. S. Open.   And then I think I want to take some time off because otherwise the year is too long, and I want to keep looking forward to playing golf.  
   
 Q.   So you don't want to burn yourself out is what you're saying?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah.   That's right.   I mean this is my eighth week here.   I mean I love it and I love to compete, but I think you need to take some time off, go home, go out, have fun.   Otherwise it's too much.   
   
 Q.   That sounds like a very Spanish mentality to me.   
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   I mean I think when you work, you need to put 100 percent and try your best, but then when you go home and just see your family, your friends, I think it's good to go out, to have some fun and party a little bit, too.   And then I think you are ready to play the next tournaments.   
   
 Q.   You went like 25 holes without a bogey.   How important is steady play like that, especially when it starts getting windy out here?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah.   I mean I think making putts really good because bogeys are very easy to make with these greens and then with the wind.   
I was trying just to hit fairways and greens.   I didn't hit lots of fairways.   But I mean I was hitting good second shots and then hitting good putts.   Some they went in, some they didn't, but I was trying to be really patient.   And I think that's what I'm going to do over the weekend, just try to enjoy and stay patient and stay in the present and let's see how it goes.  
   
 Q.   Are the greens still fast and what kind of challenges have they presented so far?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   It depends on the wind, but I mean if you are putting downhill, they are very fast and then up the hill they are a bit slower, but I mean they are fast.   
   
 Q.   Did I hear that you're now working with Sergio Garcia's manager?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Do you know Sergio at all?   Have you played any golf with him?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah.   We are good friends.   My dad is really good friends with his dad, so he came to two tournaments last year, so did his dad with me.   And we have a really good relationship.   Yeah, I love Sergio.   He's talented the way he plays.   And yeah, I am working with his manager, so I'm very happy to work with him.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned when you get away from golf you want to have some fun.   You made it clear to us yesterday you don't run with the bulls.   That's for the crazy people.   So what do you do when you get away and have some fun?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   I go home, I like playing other sports.   I like tennis and a game we play, paddle.   I don't know if you guys have ever heard of that.   It's similar to tennis, but smaller courts with walls behind, and then it's very popular in Spain and Argentina.   I really like playing that.   
And then I just like to relax at home.   I relax there with my family, with my brother, just go out with friends, have a good dinner.   I don't go out a lot, but I mean next week I'll go at least two or three days.   
THE MODERATOR:   Anything else?   
   
 Q.   Would you mind telling us in Spanish why a young girl should play golf and what you like about this tournament.   
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Say that again.  
   
 Q.   In Spanish would you mind telling us why young girls should come out and play golf, more girls should play golf?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   In Spanish.   Answer in Spanish?   
THE MODERATOR:   All right.   Thank you so much for coming in, and continued good luck for the rest of the weekend.   
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT