OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 6, 2012
Carlota Ciganda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Carlota, how honored are you feeling to be Rookie of the Year this year?   
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   I feel very happy, because I think it's important to win all these awards.   It has been a great rookie year for me.   I have been playing really good golf, very happy with my game.   
I'm very happy to win but I don't think too much about winning on the course, just try to play my own game and if it's good enough, I'm happy.   And if it's not good enough, I just try to get better.   I think it's great.   
   
 Q.   The highlights, the best memories from the season?   
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   For me, the best memories, they have been winning the two events.   The first one in Holland, it was very special because it was my first one.   And it was also my birthday week and my mom was there, my uncle, so that was nice.   
Then winning in China was also great, because I played really good golf, and I had a lot of fun.   I really like the course over there.   
But I mean overall it has been a great year, I really liked it on the Tour.   The people are very nice and always happy to play with them.   I felt really good.   
   
 Q.   Looking to next year in 2013, will you reassess your goals?   Solheim Cup must be high on your priorities.   You're leading that ranking and you've been on the junior team, so you've seen what it's like.   
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   I would love to go there but there is a lot of time and lots of tournaments, and that can't happen until August.   
Yeah, that's one of my goals, I would love to be on that team playing with Europe and against the Americans, but I think first I need to‑‑ first, play this week, then take some time off at home and stay with my family and have some fun, and then in January I will start again practicing a little bit and I will go to Australia in February and play a few events there.   I'm going to play here and maybe a few events also.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT