OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 6, 2012
Carlota Ciganda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Carlotta, how did that compare to yesterday, your golf today?   
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   I played good today.   I made no bogeys.   I started with a birdie on the 10th hole, which was my first one.   And then I made all pars until my 10th hole, and I also birdied the third hole which is the par5, 12 for me.   
So I was 3‑under and then I was just making pars, hitting good shots and good chances for birdie.   But the second nine holes, it was more windy.   So at the end, I ended up with a birdie on my 17th, but I'm happy with the round.   
   
 Q.   You said yesterday you are just trying to concentrate on your own golf, not worry about the tournament or the Order of Merit.   But you could be just two days away from winning the Order of Merit.   Can you still block that out of your mind?   
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   I think it's a big thing, but I'm just trying to stay in the moment and just to play my own game.   When I am on the course, I like to go to my game and just stay in the present and outside just have fun.   My family is here; I'm going to go have lunch with them and have some laughs.   
I just want to enjoy the time that I'm here, because it's great to be here in Dubai.   So I feel very lucky about that and I don't really think about the result or the Order of Merit.   We'll see in a few days.  
   
 Q.   Having said that, do you notice what Caroline is doing around you?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah, I'm playing with her and we have the scorecard.   She's playing great and she's hitting great shots.   I'm very happy for her, because she's a great player and a very nice girl.   Good luck the next two days and we'll see who is the best.  
   
 Q.   You seem to have a really good relationship, and you've come through the Tour together this year almost, winning tournaments together and moving up the leaderboard together; is that the case?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah, we played a lot of amateur golf together, match plays and she played with Germany and I played with Spain.   Then she went to college for one year; I was there, as well, so we have been playing a lot.   She's one year older than me.   And then on Tour this year, we have played a lot and she has always been really nice and always very kind and happy to help.   So I really appreciate it, and I wish her always the best.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT