THE LPGA DRIVE ON CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY VOLVIK
March 5, 2021
Carlota Ciganda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Carlota, a nice bogey-free 7-under 65 today.  You said you had a nice early wake-up call.  Don't really like those, but a 7-under will make it all worth it.  How did it feel to put together that round?
 CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah, I mean, very happy.  I think every time you shoot 7-under it's a great round obviously.  No bogeys and I started playing really well, hitting many greens and making a few putts.  I birdied four holes in a row on the front and then I birdied 9, so I was quite happy with that front nine.
 Then on the back I kept hitting a few, yeah, good shots.  I missed one on 13 but get it up and down, and then good two birdies at the end for 7-under.
 Q. You mentioned a 5:00 a.m. wake-up call, but you said you were awake.  A little different than you're used to?
 CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah, I'm Spanish, so Spanish people like to sleep in and start the day a little later than 7:38 tee time.  But just have to do what you have to do.
 I was pretty awake today at 5:00 a.m.  I had a nice dinner, slept good, and I was ready to go.
 Q. You mentioned your kind of fascination for Laura and your respect for her game.  Take me through what it was like to play with the dame?
 CARLOTA CIGANDA:   I love playing with her.  I think she's amazing to play with.  I think her talent is unbelievable, like everything she does with her different shots.  She's very creative.  Lots of imagination.
 I always enjoyed that.  I think she can hit shots this no one here can hit, so I have a lot of respect.  I think she's just so good for golf, so good for the Tour to see her playing so good, making cuts.  She shot 3-under today, no bogeys.  I mean, it's just a lot of fun to watch her play.
 Q. The attitude she has on the course seems very laid back and relaxed.  Is that something when you were playing with her over the last couple days helped you?
 CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah, I love how quick she is.  She just goes.  She doesn't think.  She just hits it, find it, and then hit it again.  I love how she plays.  It's just pure talent.
 Q. Will you be playing all the here at 57?
 CARLOTA CIGANDA:   At 57?
 Q. That's how old Laura is.
 CARLOTA CIGANDA:   I mean, I don't know.  Like I don't really think -- that's a lot of years.  I'm 30 right now so I think I'll see how it goes.  I love playing golf, but think I want to have a family and a normal life one day as well.
 I love competing and playing so I'm sure I will miss it when I don't play because I love competition too much, but I'm not sure.
 Q. You have Terry back on the bag.  When did you renew that relationship and why can?
 CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah, so, I mean, Terry and I, we had great four years together.  Last year with 2020 and COVID I think he wanted to take a little break.  I always enjoy working with him.  He's very peaceful, experienced, very calm.  I always enjoyed that.  I think that's what I need on the course.
 And we just have a great connection.  I love him, his values, how he is.  I think he knows me very well and I feel very comfortable with him out there.
 Q. You had an arm injury last year?
 CARLOTA CIGANDA:   So after Lake Oconee, so I think it was the end of October.  I went back home for a few weeks and I was playing wall tennis in Spain that I played my whole life and I had a bad fall, twisted my left ankle, and then I fall on my -- fell off on my right elbow and had a little fracture on my radial bone.
 Yeah, it wasn't fun, but I had lots of rehab and I did play U.S. Open and CME but I wasn't feeling great, to be honest.  So I'm happy that I'm feeling good again, no pain, and I can compete again.
 Q. You said it was tennis?
 CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah.
 Q. Wall tennis?
 CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah, wall tennis.  So it's a big wall.  It's similar to squash but a bigger wall that we play in the north of Spain, and I played since I was five, six years old.  I mean, I am going to keep playing because I like it and I'm stubborn.
 Q. And you're pretty good probably.
 CARLOTA CIGANDA:   It was just a bad fall.  So, yeah, was a little unlucky.
 Q. What is your favorite replica hole out here?
 CARLOTA CIGANDA:   I really like 11.  That par-3 reminds me of the Masters a lot.  I think that's one of the best ones out here.  Just being right there, I mean, you just want to play the Augusta, and hopefully we can get a tournament there.  I think that's my favorite one.
 Q. Have you played Augusta before?
 CARLOTA CIGANDA:   No, I been there.  I was there in 2000 and I think 13 with Sergio.  He invited me with him and his family, so I went there for the Masters week.  That was, yeah, a lot of fun.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT