MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY DANA
July 12, 2019
Carlota Ciganda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Carlota, you found yourself at 8-under par.  Yesterday you told me you were exhausted, and this is in fact your fourth in a row.  Seven out of eight weeks you've been playing.  How have you been able to manage your energy so well?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: I mean, I been playing pretty good.  To be honest, I was really tired starting on Tuesday, and I pulled out of the pro-am because when I woke I had a headache and I wasn't feeling very good.
But then I was like just try your best.  I had no expectations yesterday, just to try to play my best.  Yesterday I just started very well hitting like 70, 80%; today the same.
I'm just happy to play and post a good number.
Q. Are you surprised with how low you're scoring?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: A little bit.  To be honest, I didn't think I was going to play very good this week.  It's golf, and I think I didn't think too much about the results so I'm happy to be where I am.  I have two more days.  I really like the golf course.  It's in great shape, and it's always nice to play here.
Q. We are a result-orientated society, and you've won twice on tour.  It's been three years.  How badly do you want to win and what do you really need to do this weekend to raise another trophy?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah, I mean, I really want to win.  As you said, it's been three years now and I've been close.  Times.  Just going to keep doing what I'm doing, try to hit as many greens, play golf.  I don't want to think too much about results.  Just play golf and whatever happens on Sunday I'll be happy with.
Q. What was your approach coming into today?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: To be honest, I didn't have much expectations.  I was just like, Go out there, have fun.  I'm hitting the ball pretty good.  I think I'm swinging a little bit slower, which sometimes is good.
Yeah, I mean, I hit many greens.  I started really good with two birdies.  Shot 4-under on the front.  Birdied the last two par-5s, 17 and 18.  I had a couple of bogeys.  I missed a couple fairways on the back.  But I'm happy.  I'm happy with the round and happy to be up there.
Q. Now, the greens seem to be pretty receptive so far over these last two days.  Has that allowed to you take aim more at the pin?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah, you can be more aggressive, especially playing in the morning.  The greens are a little bit softer and they're rolling really good.
I think it's always nice to play early and get a good score.  I think in the afternoon it gets a little bit more firm and it's harder to score.
Q. After putting together another nice round, how do you handle that momentum going into tomorrow?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: I'll just try to do the same tomorrow.  Don't expect too much.  Just go out there and play and try my best.  Hopefully I can get two more rounds and be up there on Sunday.
Q. The greens, how tough are these compared to any other major you've been to?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: The greens are in good speed.  Maybe a little slower than majors.  They're rolling really good.  I think for poana it's really, really good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT