PURE SILK CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY VISIT WILLIAMSBURG
May 24, 2019
Carlota Ciganda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What a round out there.  Being able to finish also with the nice looking birdie on 18.  Explain what was so comfortable for you out there?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: I think it's been good these two weeks.  I feel rested.  I feel ready to go again.  I was quite tired after San Francisco.  I went back to Spain for two weeks and just rested, stayed with my family, friends, eat some good food.
I been playing good the whole year so I'm excited to play golf again.  I like the course.  I been hitting lots of greens and putting good so far, really good speed, so I think yeah, everything is going well for me.
Q. Explain how that trip back home to see your friends, family really boosted your confidence coming into Kingsmill?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah, I love playing golf, but I think it's good to have a balance.  For me it's important to go home to just play other sports, stop playing golf for eight or nine days, and just, yeah, stay with family, friends.  Just have a little bit of a normal life.  I don't think this is very normal what we do every day.
Yeah, it was great.  I saw my friends.  I play some paddle tennis with another friends.  Really good dinner with my parents.  I'm happy.  I'm in peace.  I think that really helps me.
Q. You also had a nice looking eagle.  Take us through the strategy on that par-5.
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah, so that was on 15.  I hit a really good drive and the second shot hit it on the right, but actually it was quite a good miss just short of the green on the right.  I made a really good chip from maybe 15, 20 yards.
It was a little lucky.  The ball was down; I hit a high one; it was going a little hard and hit the pin and came in, so sometimes you have to be a little lucky and I was today.
Q. From the outside this looks like a near-perfect round.  No bogeys.  What are you looking to improve going into the weekend?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Just going to try to do the same.  Try to hit lots of fairways, greens, stay very patient out there.  Good attitude, and enjoy myself.
Q. When did you come back to the states?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: I went back home on the Monday.  I was in Spain and I came back last Friday; went to Charleston; played a practice round on Saturday, and came here on Sunday.
Q. Oh, practice round for the Open?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yes.
Q. I see.  You clearly don't need much practice here.  Top 10 here two years ago; is that right?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah, I played good here two years ago.  I didn't play last year.  Yeah, I mean, I like the place.  It feels good.
Q. Suits your eye?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yep.
Q. How much of this tournament is kind of like a practice round for you going into the Open?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: I think it's good after having two weeks off.  It's good to play at least one before the Open.  I mean, I been playing a lot the whole year so I'm not too worried.  I think I have the game.  It's just more being patient and trying to play your game.
I think it always helps.  I like playing the week before a major, yeah.
Q. You played the last two days with Nasa.  What have been your impressions of her?  She's played like 95 consecutive holes on this course without a bogey.  She just seems to be really dialed in.
CARLOTA CIGANDA: I think she's a really solid player.  Doesn't make many mistakes.  Good putter.  Made some good putts for par.
Yeah, very solid.  Lots of greens, lots of fairways.  Yeah, she should be up there on the weekend.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT