ANA INSPIRATION
April 7, 2019
Carlota Ciganda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Bogey-free final round here at ANA.
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah, that's pretty good.  I mean, it was playing tough all week.  Yesterday I didn't hit fairways and I went to the range and hit few drivers and I was like, I have to hit more fairways, otherwise it's just tough to hit greens and hit it close.
Today I think I hit a few more fairways and that made it a little bit easier.  The ball was flying a lot so I had short clubs to the green.  I made some good putts on the front; on the back I hit it pretty close.  I putted good.  Just didn't go in.
I'm happy.  Just one bogey on the weekend on this course.  Yeah, happy with the week.
Q. Would you say the strength today was the practice that you put in yesterday?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: I been very patient this week, and I think that was key, especially with how the course was playing.  The setup was very narrow and the rough so thick.
So I thought I have to be patient and just accept every shot and stay in the present.  I think I did that pretty good.  I was happy with that.  And then I played today maybe the best day.  Like lots of fairways, lots of greens, and yeah, gave myself a few birdie chances.  I made a few.  Not as much as I would like to, but still happy.
Q. You are a very consistent player.  We see you doing pretty well out here.  What are where you goals this season?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: I would love to win again.  I won three years ago and I would like to win.  I mean, I don't want to be upset with that, but I want to keep playing and keep hitting lots of greens.  I have a great guy with me with lots of experience so that's going to help me.
Just enjoy myself here.  I love it.  It's a great family and I love being here on tour.  I feel very lucky to play here, and I think life is great.
Q. You have your parents out watching you.  How meaningful is it for you?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah, I mean, they are now retire so I want them to enjoy.  My parent, they love following me, they love golf, and they are very relax.  They never put any pressure on me.  They just tell me to have fun and enjoy.
I love them having here.  I like Spain and home is Spain, so I like seeing them at least once every four or five weeks.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT