BANK OF HOPE FOUNDERS CUP
March 21, 2019
Carlota Ciganda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Bogey-free; three birdies on each nine; what was the key to your round today?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: I'm just trying to hit lots of greens.  It's a tough course that you have to make birdies.  Always the scores are pretty low here.  I'm trying to be patient because I been playing pretty good.
So I think if I hit lots of greens I'm going to have lots of chances, and then it's just a matter of making a few putts a day, try to play good the par-5s.  So on those holes, I was good.  Yeah, just playing good.
Q. As you say, playing really well.  You were third in Thailand.  When you start the season in good form, that must give you a lift of confidence for the year to come.
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah.  I mean, I been on tour now for eight years.  I think I'm just learning and getting better.  I think experience helps a lot.  I have a great caddie with me and always learning every day, so I been very lucky.
And then I'm just enjoying.  I love competing.  I love playing golf.  I'm just trying to have fun out there and try to play my best.
Q. Nice way to finish with a birdie on 18.  What length putt was that?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: It was maybe five meters, 15 feet.
Q. And the putter clearly working well all day.
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah, it's been working well.  Made a few good putts, but always helps to make some birdies.  Yeah, been playing good.  Didn't make many mistakes and no bogeys, so that's always good.
Q. Is this a course you normally like playing?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: I wouldn't say it's my favorite.  I really haven't played that well in the past because I feel on the front I cannot really hit that many drivers, I cannot be that aggressive.
On the back nine I think I can be a little bit more.  I wouldn't say it's my favorite course, but if you're a professional golfer you have to play on every course and have to try to play good every week.
Q. Final question:  It was a fun group you had today.  Inbee, the defending champion, and she opened with a 3-under round, and Dame Laura, who had a very good run here last year.
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah, I had a great group.  Very honored to play with both of them.  I love playing with Laura.  We played a lot my first two years in Europe.  She's so much fun to play with.  The shots she hits, unbelievable how good she is.
Inbee as well.  It's unbelievable she's still playing for such a long time and then she comes back and hits all these great shots.  Very consistent.  So you can always learn from these really good players.  Yeah, we had a great group.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT