HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
February 28, 2019
Carlota Ciganda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Can you talk about your round, how you found the course conditions?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: The course is playing quite firm, it's very windy, so it's not easy to get close to the hole.   
Started very well my first six holes with three birdies and then I 3-putted on 7, lost a ball on 8, but then I try to hit fairways and greens.  I didn't play that well and my putting was really good, so I did lots of saves.   
Then two birdies on the back nine kept me going, so very happy with my round and excited for tomorrow.   
 Q.  And how did you lose your ball?  Where did it go, in the water, in a bush?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah, in a bush with my driver.  I just hit it to the right.  Just a bad shot.   
 Q.  How did you get your momentum back on track after playing such a good first six holes?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: It's only the first day, so just trying to hit as many greens as I can.  Pars are good on this course, and if you can make a few birdies every day, I think 3-, 4-under every day is a really good score in these conditions.  That's what I'm trying to do.   
 Q.  Have you played the three weeks before now?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: This is my third one.  I started in the Australian Open, Thailand and Singapore.   
 Q.  Are you feeling happy with where your game is at?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: I'm happy.  I've been playing good.  Finished good last week and I'm excited for this week.   
 Q.  Are you finding some of the girls, saying the course has really settled since it got redone.  The greens are all playing very fast and it's maybe playing a little bit longer.  Are you finding the same?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah, the greens, they are very quick and very firm.  So it's hard to stop the ball.  The course, I mean, I don't think it's much longer, but a few bunkers, a few more trees, and very similar to last year.   
 Q.  And the fast greens, is that to your advantage?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: I like fast greens, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT