TOTO JAPAN CLASSIC
November 4, 2018
Carlota Ciganda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A 4-under round, it's going to be just a little short but still you have to feel good about how you played this week?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah, I'm happy.  I like playing in Asia and I think I've been very consistent every week.  I've been close many times, I just think I have to keep doing the same.  Of course, I would like to win, but I think if you are in the Top-10 every week and giving yourself good chances, one day it will come.  That's what I think and I'm going to keep trying.
Yeah, I'm happy the way I played.  No bogeys today.  Two bogeys for the whole week.  So I think it's good golf.
Q. At one point today you were actually tied with NASA when she had a hiccup.  Did you watch the leaderboard?  Did you know?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: I didn't really watch much but on 14 or 15, we were tied and I think she birdied 14 or 15.  Then I had a good chance on 17 because I hit a great driver and I was between a hybrid and I 3-wood and I tried to hit a cut 3-wood and I hit it to the right.  I couldn't make it up-and-down, and then a good shot on 18.  Close to making a birdie.  But it's golf, and she played great.  Very happy for her to win in her country and many congratulations.
Q. You said it yourself, you've had a great Asia Swing.  You haven't finished out of the top 11.  What's going right with your game so far?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: I feel very relaxed here.  When I play here, I like the people.  There's no cut, so you just go and play golf, three, four days every week.  Don't really think too much about anything else.  Go play, try my best.  Having a great time with Terry out there.
I really love coming in here.  Yeah, seems to be good for me.
Q. How much did you rely on Terry and all of his knowledge and that handwritten greens book?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah, he has so much experience.  He's been a lot of help for me because he's very calm and very relaxed, especially in those tough moments where you have to keep calm.  I think it's important to have someone with experience, and yeah, he's been great with me.  We've been three years together, and I mean, I love Terry.  I wouldn't be here without him.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT