TOTO JAPAN CLASSIC
November 3, 2018
Carlota Ciganda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Another super solid round today.  You must be happy with how today went?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah, really happy.  I really like this golf course, especially the front nine, and playing good, especially the par 5s.  I've been hitting lots of greens.  Yeah, I would like to play good tomorrow and finish a good Asian stretch, swing, and yeah, all good.  I'm very happy.
Q. You got off to a really good start in terms of the Buick in Shanghai, and going into the final round you were in which a chance.  You finished fourth last week, as well?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah, I always like playing here.  I feel very relaxed.  Always play three full days, no cuts.  I like the courses.  I like the way they treat us.  I always enjoy coming here, and I always play pretty good.  I like it here.
Q. You have a secret weapon on the bag every week, I think we can say, with Terry McNamara, but with this week he has a little bit more knowledge.  He was on the bag for an which a when she won, and I believe he's given you a bit of wisdom this week?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah, he came here like seven or eight times and he said that when he first came -- his yardage book, they were not great, so he made his own.
I've been carrying this with me this week, and you can see how he made all the holes, and it's been great because you can see, all the ups and downs on the greens.  The knowledge, the yardage books are better but it's always nice to have this information.  He's been here, I don't know how many times he's won, I think seven times, so I think he knows the course pretty well.
Q. Has he given you anything in specific to focus on out there?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: He has told me a couple instances to stay below the hole.  I like playing aggressive, and he's like, yes, be yourself, play aggressive and have fun.
Q. And that's the game plan going into tomorrow?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah, I'm going to try to hit every pin and try to make as low as I can.  I saw Minjee is playing very good, so I need to shoot a low score tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT