THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 14, 2018
Carlota Ciganda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 1-under par.  How would you describe your round out there today?  Few frustrations?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah.  I missed a few short putts on the front nine on No. 6 and then 11.
I mean, really I'm happy because I been playing solid, hitting lots of greens, lots of fairways.  So, I mean, I'm playing good.  I'm happy where I am.
Two more days, and I just want to be there in the top 10 on the weekend and have a chance on Sunday.
Q. You are a pretty long hitter.  How much of an advantage o you feel like that gives you around this golf course?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: It does give me a lot, especially on the a par-5s.  I mean, if you hit a good driver, I mean, I can hit it to the green in every par-5.  I don't think many of the girls can do, so that's an advantage.  Have to hit the fairway.
But, no, I mean, I think if you hit it long it's always a big advantage in any course.  I mean, I been hitting good drivers, hitting lots of wedges to the greens, so that helps.
So then I just need to make a few more putts.
But I'm happy.
Q. In contention at a major over the weekend.  How important would it be to you to be the first female major winner from Spain?  What would that mean to you?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah, it would be a dream come true.  I mean, I don't want think that far.  I think I just want to go relax tonight and then start tomorrow again.  I just want to keep playing my plan.
I think if I do that I'm going to have a chance on Sunday.  I been playing good all year, especially on the majors, so I think I'm ready.  I have a great caddie with me, so that's a big advantage.
I think I'm ready to fight.
Q. Finally, how important is it to you to have that lie-in tomorrow morning?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: To have that?
Q. Lie-in, to get your sleep?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah, I like sleeping in, yeah.  I like long nights and sleeping in, so I'm excited to have a good dinner with my family and then take it easy tomorrow and then go and fight in the afternoon.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT