THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 13, 2018
Carlota Ciganda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Opening with a bogey-free 65 here at the Evian Championship.  Take me through the round out there today.  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah, it was great round for me today.  I played very solid.  Off the tee I hit all the fairways and then I was hitting close on the greens, especially the back nine, which was my front nine.   
Also my putting was very solid.  I make some good putts.  Save on 16 for par.  Then I play really good on the par-5s, 3-under.   
I love this place.  I love playing in Europe.  My friends are here, some friends, so really like the atmosphere.   
 Q.  What are where you thoughts on the course here?  You finished tied for 17th a few years ago.  Do you like the layout and the setup here?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah, I think it's a tough course.  You have to play very good from the tee; the rough is quite thick.  It's really important where you hit to the greens, because the greens are very slopey.  You have to play smart.   
I think I have a good plan, and I'm excited for the next three days.   
 Q.  Seems like you've been in the mix all season long; five Top 10s so far.  What do you think you need to do here this weekend to break through and get the first win of the year?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: I just want to keep playing, just try my best.  I been playing very good so I know I'm close.  I don't want to get obsessed.  Just keep playing.  (Indiscernible - background noise.)   
 Q.  We were just talking before the interview about the new logo on your shirt.  Tell us the connection and the story behind that.  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah, I'm wearing this shirt because my home course, the kids, it's like a club, like a juniors.  They just starting wearing these shirts.  They like -- it's like Carlota, so we need to have my name on it.  They sent me a few, so I'm happy to wear them.  I like they have the Spanish flag.  I'm very attached to Spain, so I really like them.   
 Q.  Good round today.  Bogey-free 65.  Describe your round today.  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: It was very solid day today.  Very solid from the start.  I played really good on the par-5s 3-under.  And then I felt like I played very good tee-to-green.  My putts were really good, too.   
I'm happy with my round.   
 Q.  You came in third at the U.S. Open and tied for seventh at the British.  You think perhaps this week might be your week?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: I like tough courses and I like playing go that majors.  I know I have to be mentally tough, and I like that.  I like the challenge.   
I been playing good, so I'm just going to try to keep playing the same.  I don't want to think about winning.  It's only the first day.  Three more days to play lots of golf, and so just keep playing.   
 Q.  I saw that you were leading the driving distance so far today.  Has these drier conditions helped you at all?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah, the course is a little drier than years before and the ball is playing a little bit more, running more, so I been hitting my driver quite a lot.   
But yeah, I just played very solid like from tee to green and make a few putts.   
Very happy.   
 Q.  I'm very curious, because you have that logo on your shirt says Carlota.  That your own logo, your own brand?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah, so been starting with the kids and the juniors on my home course from Pamplona.  They decided they wanted to have my name on their shirts when they go play tournaments away from -- like in their region.   
They send me a few and I quite like them, so I'm just going to wear them.  I feel very attached to my home course and Spain.   
 Q.  Last question:  Obviously you have the afternoon off.  What is your plan for the afternoon and game plan moving forward?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah, I'm just going to take it easy.  There is three more days, so lots of golf to be played.  There is a football game this afternoon, so I'll go maybe watch that.   
Not a very long afternoon, but just get some food, some practice, see the physio, and then rest.   
 Q.  Last but not least, the tournament is moving to July next year.  How do you feel about that?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah, I think it's great.  It's great to play in the summer because I think the weather should be better.  This year it's been great, but usually we get thunderstorms and the course get very wet.   
I'm happy to play.  I love playing in Europe, but I think it's good to play Evian and British at the same time because it's only one trip instead of twice coming here.   
Whatever it is, it's good with me.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT