ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
July 28, 2018
Carlota Ciganda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Good round of golf in those conditions?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah, I was pretty happy with my 3-under today.  In the beginning it wasn't bad but then after five, six holes, the wind just picked up and it was very windy.  Just trying to hit the ball to the fairways, the greens, make some pars and I made some good putts.  Good birdie on 11 on the par 5.  Made a good putt on 14 and then I 3-putted 15 and 16 but I finished with a good birdie on 18.  I think it's tough out there, so I think 3-under, it's pretty good.   
 Q.  How far was the drive on 18?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: To be honest I don't even know.  I think it was 260 metres to carry the bunker.  I can't tell you right now.  Maybe 300 metres to the front.   
 Q.  Is that closest to your longest ever?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Maybe.  Yesterday I hit it 350 yards with the wind helping, 356.  So maybe more like 360, 370 yards.   
 Q.  You seemed to manage it well, though?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah, I like playing in tough conditions.  When we come to the U.K. I'm expecting tough conditions and wind and rain and it's playing tough, so I like that.  Today I think was the first day playing tough.  The first two days it was just really nice weather.  It was lovely.  But I like these conditions better.   
 Q.  Were you aware that the leaders were coming back?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Not really.  I didn't really look much.  I was just trying to play my game and trying to hit all the spots I have to hit.  Just too tough to focus on what everybody else is doing.  I think I'll be close enough to have a chance for tomorrow.   
 Q.  Is your father a pretty good footballer?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: That's my uncle, my dad's brother.   
 Q.  The wind there today, is that the strongest you've played in?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: I think last year was stronger.  We played at Dundonald.  That was maybe stronger than this.   
 Q.  And you like links golf?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah, I like it.  I mean, we don't get to play much when we come here, so this is real golf.  I love playing here with the tough conditions.  It really is different.   
It depends on the wind.  One hole you can hit a wedge one day and the next day you can hit a 4-iron on the same hole.  It's funny.  It's a challenge.  You have to think.  Even for the caddies, they have to be very good at it.  It's a lot of thinking and more fun.   
 Q.  And tomorrow you'll be in the mix when you start off, how big would it be for you to win here, especially before next week?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: I mean, I love links golf, and I love playing in Scotland, the Home of Golf.  It's always fun to come here.  I would love to, especially before next week.   
 Q.  I think you're leading the long driving stats.  What's the secret?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: I mean, I just try to hit as far as I can.  The wind helped because it was downwind, but I don't really think much else.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT