KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 29, 2018
Carlota Ciganda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Nicely done.  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: I'm tired.  I can't even think.   
 Q.  Has it been a while since you've been that hot when you were playing?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Maybe -- I mean, the last few weeks, U.S. Open, Arkansas last week, it was hot.  Just so much thinking, and this course takes time, and I think it's a tough course, so you have to play smart.   
 Q.  You have a very experienced caddie on the bag in Terry; how much does he help you on a tougher course?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah, I think he's really good.  He's been here so long, so he just knows how hard the course is playing.  He helped me with -- not like conservative plan but more hit it safe.  We are trying to hit lots of fairways, lots of greens.  Only one bogey in 36 holes, so I think that's pretty good.  The afternoon was a little bit more windy than yesterday morning, which made it play tougher, and I think the course is getting harder and more firm, so I think on the weekend it's going to be tougher.   
 Q.  Is this a golf course that you immediately like?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah.  I mean, I like -- yeah.  I came two weeks ago to practice, and I played 18 holes.  I like trees.  I like playing with tree-lined courses.  There's so many lakes here, but I like tough courses where you have to think or at least you have to -- I like to be challenged.   
 Q.  Do you always come early like that for majors?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Not always.  I mean, I try.  Depends what weeks I'm playing.  But not always.   
 Q.  Your reason for coming, are you getting more serious about wanting to win a major?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah, I mean, I want to win every week.  Yeah, I mean, obviously I think I have a good chance at the majors because you don't have to shoot 20.  I think if you are between 10 and 15-under, you're able to win one.  So I like these courses where you have to hit longer shots to greens, par-3s are longer.  I really like that.   
 Q.  Women's golf in Spain right now, what would a Spaniard winning a major do for that?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: I mean, I think more would start playing.  They do a great job with the national team and they send girls to every tournament in Europe.  I think that's really good.  And obviously if a Spanish girl wins any tournament, even a major, it would be unbelievable.  I want to just try to keep playing my best, try to follow my strategy, my plan, and see how it goes.   
 Q.  You've been doing this for a little while now.  What is the most important thing you've learned about being patient in a major?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah, I think it's really important to hit greens.  If you hit greens, you're not going to make many bogeys, and then if you make two, three putts every day for birdie, I think 2-, 3-under every day is a good score.  I think hitting greens is the key.   
 Q.  Do you still work with Jorge?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah, I'm still working with Jorge.  Yeah, three years now.  He knows my game, and I think everything is working good, and yeah, I'm happy with him.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT