U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 3, 2018
Carlota Ciganda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  If we could ask you do answer the first two questions in English first and then in Spanish.  
 You finished the Women's Open with three sub-par rounds and a third place finish.  How do you feel about that?   
CARLOTA CIGANDA: I'm very happy.  I think I played really good the whole week.  I think it's one of the toughest weeks of the year.  Have to be mentally tough, you have to accept every shot, you have to try to play your game, your strategy and I think I did that.   
I stayed in the present all the time and I feel very good.  I'm happy the way I played, the way I putted.  I'm very happy with my week.   
 Q.  During the course of the round, Ariya starts to backup a little bit and you're starting to move closer.  Are you a scoreboard watcher and did you start to play based on that or not?  
 A
I looked and I saw Ariya and they were out there so I mean I just did what I could, my best and very happy with the 3rd place.   
 Q.  Your fourth straight Top 15 finish.  What's really clicking for you right now?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: I started the year slow.  I take a big break during Christmas.  I like to stop, five, six weeks no golf and have time off with my family and friends.   
At the beginning of the year I'm a little slow and after I play five, six events I think I started getting, start warming up.  I like the summer.  You have the biggest tournaments now so I just try to focus on those ones, all the Majors and all the big ones.  I have really good events the last month and a half, very happy with my game.  I just want to keep working and win a tournament.   
 Q.  What are you working on right now?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: I mean I've been with the same coach with for three years now, Jorge Perida, more things.  We are not working too much on my swing, little things and then trying to hit more greens.   
I think if you hit greens you're going to have always a good chance.  Yeah, just keep working, keep playing and keep having fun.   
 Q.  On the 11th tee you're 4-under for the day.  
 What are you telling yourself, just keep it going or --   
CARLOTA CIGANDA: I just wanted to make more birdies.  I only took it to 10-under.  That was my goal for the weekend after two days and I thought if I go to 10 I had a chance.  12 was playing really long, they put the tee on the back so I had a bogey there with -- it was fine because it was a long hole.   
And then good birdie chance on 14.  15 I almost made that putt.  16 really good up and down from the back of the green.  And then good birdie on 17.  And 18, I just hit it to the right and I hit it close to the green make a bogey and go home.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT