U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 1, 2018
Carlota Ciganda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Well played today, Carlota.  Tell us where you made your birdies, and that's a good score today.  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah.  I started playing pretty good.  My front-9 I birdied 2, 4, 7 and 9.  I think I hit 16 greens today so I think that was the key.   
I mean a tough course, it's playing tough conditions.  The greens are hard and the course is still wet.  It's not flying much.  Then I made some good putts, really good putts on the front and a few good saves on the back.  I bogeyed 17 but parred 18 and I'm happy with the round.   
 Q.  Were you surprised to see a double digit number up on the leaderboard at the top?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: I was.  Yeah, I mean it can happen.  I think at the end of the four days not many people will be there because it always happen in the U.S. Open.  I'm not too worried.  I'm just trying to play my game, follow my strategy and try to hit fairways and greens and I think there can be a few good scores but not many.   
 Q.  Of your practice rounds, whatever, how much has the course changed?  Significantly?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: It dried a lot.  I walked a few holes on Monday, nothing on Tuesday, played 18 on Wednesday and even yesterday was wet.  I got some mud on the ball and I think more players, too.  Today I mean still a little wet a few places but much better.  I think it doesn't rain anymore it will be fine on the weekend.   
 Q.  Less mud balls today?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: I think similar.  Maybe a few less, yeah.   
 Q.  Mud balls on a case by case basis you kind of guess what you think is going to happen, you would take less of a chance sometimes or maybe gamble a little bit and say I'm still going to try to hit the same shot I might anyway?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah.  I think it's really hard to control because the ball can do anything.  I try to hit it to the safer place.  I know if the mud is on left, the ball will go right.  You have to play with that.   
But, obviously, it's something really hard to control and especially if you are hitting to tough pins and you have lakes.   
It's the same for everyone and they make that decision.  Just have to play.  I think it's beautiful golf course.  I really like the design, and the greens are in really good condition and I'm sure they're working really hard and it's just luck.  You can't really do anything against the weather and just have to play your -- I mean I don't think it helps if you complain.   
 Q.  Carlota, Sarah Jane Smith played out here a long time, very consistent but hasn't won.  Do you know her game well?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: I think it was my first time playing with her the Korean, right?  Yeah.  All the Koreans are so good, lead very consistent.  They don't miss many shots.  They all have similar swings, really good rhythm.  Good putters.  They do everything really good.   
I think mentally and emotionally they are very -- they stay the same all the time so I think for golf is great.  She played good, very good.  She scored better yesterday but she's someone that has been really good and is going to be up there.   
 Q.  He meant Sarah Jane.  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Sorry.  Sorry.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  I know Sarah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  I'm very happy to see her up there.  I think she's great player and better person.  I mean she's been playing solid the last two years, two, three years and I mean she's a tough one to beat and I mean 10-under in two days here is unbelievable.   
 Q.  Where you stand on the leaderboard now do you become more aggressive tomorrow because you made a good move today or what do you do?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: I think the key here is hit as many fairways as you can, as many greens and if you miss the greens I think it's tough to make up and down so I mean you want to make birdies but, at the same time, you don't want to make silly mistakes.  I think if you shot 3, 4-under tomorrow and then 3, 4-under on the weekend you'll have a good chance.   
 Q.  Does it help to play with somebody who is steady like Inbee?  Is it steadying to play with somebody like Inbee?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Who?   
 Q.  Inbee Park.  You played the opposite side.  Sorry about that.  
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT