BLUE BAY LPGA
October 20, 2016
Carlota Ciganda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Another really great round today, 4-under, and you finished with a birdie on the 18th.  Can you give an overall sense of today's game?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah, I like this course.  I played the last two years and I feel comfortable, even we don't play a practice round.  I like the place.  I played very solid.  Starting with two birdies on it and 3, hitting the ball pretty good, hitting lots of greens.   
Made a good birdie on 6 and then I 3-putted 8, but I was playing solid, hitting fairways, hitting greens.  I made two birdies on the back nine, 13 and 18, a couple of good putts for par on the last few holes but I'm just happy.  I'm just enjoying, having fun and it's all good.   
 Q.  Really strong finish with a birdie on 18.  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: It was downwind, so it was good for long hitters.  Almost everyone maybe could hit on two but the pin was left next to the water, so it wasn't an easy shot.  Hit it a little right past the pin and a good up-and-down.   
 Q.  So you didn't get any practice at all yesterday?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: No, I thought it was better to rest.  I knew the course and my caddie just went and walked the course.  Just hit some chips and putts to try to get the speed of the greens.  No practice.  Just go and play.  I like it.  Keep it simple.   
 Q.  Do you feel after your win in Korea last week that you were able to enter today with more confidence and how that impacted your play today?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: I think so, yeah.  I feel confident.  I've been playing good the whole year and I think now it's showing up.  I think now the results are getting all together.  I'm just happy, whatever happens, I just want to accept and just keep playing.  All is good.   
 Q.  What did you do the night after your win in Korea to celebrate and the days after?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA: So Sunday night, we went out just next to the hotel.  There was a bar there, so just went with a few caddies and players.  We had some dancing and a few drinks.  That was good.   
I can't wait to go home and celebrate after Malaysia with my family and my friends.  Then stayed in the hotel Monday, in bed all day, very lazy day, trying to talk to everyone and respond to the messages.  And then Tuesday, work out and then flew -- what time did we fly, four o'clock.  A little tired because it was an early wake-up Wednesday, but it's just what it is.  It's all good.  We are all here, good weather, good hotel, good golf, all good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT