JTBC FOUNDERS CUP
March 19, 2016
Carlota Ciganda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. The eagle on 11 just kind of really get everything going?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah.  That was really good.  To make an eagle on that par-5, I got on 2 and I made like 15-meter putt.  So it was really good to make that eagle.  And then on 13 with the tee up, I put it on the green as well, so 2-putt for birdie, and then yeah, it was really good on 14 and 15.  I made another two birdies.
So I like the course.  I like Phoenix.  I studied here.  Good memories.  Good weather.  Life is good here.
Q. Do you get to see a lot of old friends from ASU when you come here this week?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah.  I will see after Singapore.  So before this one I stayed here and I went to ASU and see the coach and some of the girls.  It's always nice to come here because it's like my second home.
Q. Did you go in with a pretty aggressive mindset today knowing that you had, as low as the scores have been, that you had to go out and get one today?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: I've been playing good.  I just tried to stick with my plan, tried to hit fairways, hit greens.  Yeah, it's working.  I think my putter it's going good, which I wasn't putting that good, so I think that's helping a lot this week.
I don't want to think too much about this course because there's always great low scores.  So if you want to make birdies, it's hard to make, so just play, try your best and at the end of the run you'll see how it was.
Q. Do you have any of your former teammates out here today or anybody following you?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: I'm not sure.  There are a few more playing.  The coach, she came on Thursday and a few of the girls.  They are to play next week, so they can't be here, but I know they want me to do well.
Q. Be honest, were you celebrating when U of A lost in the NCAA tournament?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: No.  I'm not like that.  I just like to focus on my game of golf.  I mean I think at the end we just want to play good, and I'm not happy when someone plays bad and loses.  I don't like that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT