SOLHEIM CUP
September 19, 2015
Melissa Reid
Carlota Ciganda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Why is it working so well between you two?
MELISSA REID: I don't know.  She's a great girl.  She hits it a mile.  It's a lot easier when I've got one foot or less to the hole.  I don't have any stress with Carlota.  If I hit off her, I have absolute faith in her.  She's just a -- she's a Spaniard, she's a Sergio, a Seve, an incredible player.
Q. Incredible form, Carlota.  This morning, to take it into the foursomes, how did you continue that?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: I played very well and it was very simple to play with her, because we played as if we were playing fourball.  We play our game.  We were very relaxed and we played well.
Q. People are saying you're the female equivalent to Ian Poulter when it comes to playing for Europe.  That's quite a nice comparison, isn't it?
MELISSA REID: Yeah, maybe this one.  I felt like I had a point to prove for this one.  Yeah, I'm actually buzzing, I'm really happy the way things are going.  Hopefully we can get the Cup home.
Q. Carlota, a final word about the support you've had this week, it's been absolutely incredible?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: I can't describe it.  It's unbelievable.  So happy there's so many fans having such a great time.  And I hope we can win this just for them and for the team.
Q. Mel, great game.  Another point on the board for Europe.  You must be, to quote you, buzzing?
MELISSA REID: Yeah, I've used that word a lot this week, haven't I?  Got off to a great start this morning.  Obviously birdieing 18 was what we planned to do.  And then great half point there.
And then we played great.  Had a bit of a wobble for two or three holes.  She's a great player, she's a good friend of mine.  And we had a lot of fun.  It was fun.  It was obviously nice to finish that way.
Q. A lot of fist pumps out there, a lot of high fives.  How do you keep the energy going?  It must be pretty draining.
MELISSA REID: I don't know, to be honest with you.  We're getting about six, seven hours of sleep at night.  I was absolutely buzzing.  I could hardly sleep last night, I was so excited.  Your adrenaline just kicks in.
I think maybe Monday I'm going to be a bit tired and Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday.  But something like this, the crowd gets you going and the team gets you going and the adrenaline kicks in and it keeps you going, I guess.
Q. Overall, the situation right now, are you happy where Europe is?
MELISSA REID: Yeah, we did great to get the half point for our match.  The girls birdied the last, as well, to get a half point this morning, the German girls.  It was huge for us.  Every single half point counts.  Yeah, we're very happy the way things are going.  We made points up yesterday.  If we do that every day, we'll be fine.
Q. Carlota, here we go again.  Another point for Europe.  You have four at the moment.
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah, very happy with the point.  Melissa was very easy to play with.  We were stress-free.  We played pretty good.
Q. You seemed so pumped up out on the course, really keeping each other going.  It was a good vibe between you two.
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah, I think that really helps me.  We like to celebrate the good shots, the good putts and that's what we did.  We made many birdies.  It was nice to start 3- or 4-up in the six, seven holes.  I'm very happy to win a point for the European team.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT