KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
October 9, 2020
Carlota Ciganda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   Here with Carlota Ciganda, who just finished up a 1-under 69, two birdies and a bogey.  Ashleigh was just saying she thought the course was firming up this afternoon.  What are the changes you saw from yesterday to today?
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah, I think she's right.  I think it was playing a little bit more firm for sure.  I think the greens, they were bouncing a bit more.  A few tougher pins, I think.  We played a couple front pins with the wind helping, so obviously it's tough to hit it close.  I think it's important to have discipline and just hit it like five, six past and just putt to the pin.  The game felt good.  I played very solid, 17 greens.  I had a good three, four chances at the end that I didn't make, but I think I am where I want to be for the weekend, and very happy with the result.
THE MODERATOR:   Were you thinking about -- maybe not taking it easy today but not pushing it, or what was the game plan going into today?
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   The game plan is always to hit as many fairways, as many greens, especially in majors.  Try to be patient out there, make a few putts, try to not make many mistakes, so I'm very happy with only one bogey.  I would have liked a couple more birdies because I had those chances, but I mean, it's golf.  I am right there.  I have two more days to keep fighting, and hopefully I can play good on Sunday.
THE MODERATOR:   You did have your birdies on 12 and 16; can you tell us about those birdies?
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah, so on 12 I hit a really good driver and then I had 150 meters to the pin, and I hit an 8-iron and maybe came 20 feet short, and I made a good putt.  And then 16, they put the tee up, so I hit a really good driver, 185 meters to the pin, the wind left to right helping, and I hit a 5, hit it to like 25 feet, almost made eagle, so that was an easy birdie.
Yeah, and then on 4, I hit it to the bunker on the right and didn't make up-and-down, so that was my bogey for the day.
Q. You've won out here, you've played on big Solheim Cup stages.  Is winning a major championship kind of the next progression for you do you feel?
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah, I mean, I feel like I have the game.  I think I am right there.  I like tough courses.  I like when it's playing hard, so it's a good week for me.  I love the course.  It really suits my eye with the fairways and the greens.  I mean, I think it's long and tough, so I like courses like this.  I think we should play more courses like this one.
Yeah, I mean, I'm ready.  I'm always ready to win, but yeah, I think it's a good week for me.
Q. On the last hole here, No. 9, what did you have in on your second shot?
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   I had 240 meters to the pin, yeah.  The wind helping, and I hit a 3-wood, landed like five, six on, just back of the green.
Q. You had so many good looks at the end.  How hard are these greens to read?  Is that the biggest issue?
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah, I mean, they are big greens.  I think afternoon rounds it's harder to make putts because obviously everyone has played in the morning, and afternoons I think the greens don't roll as pure as in the morning, so I think you have to be a bit more patient.  But yeah, I think hopefully tomorrow less players, it will be nice and smooth and I can make a few more putts.
Q. I know you had a lot of looks at birdie; how important is it to just leave that behind when you walk to the next tee?
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah, I mean, I think it's important to be in the present, especially playing majors.  I think you just want to try your 100 percent on each shot.  That's what I've been trying to do, especially on a course like this.  I think it's real easy to lose your patience and to get angry, but I think if you do that you are giving an advantage to the other players, so I'm just trying to be patient, trying one shot at a time and enjoy the golf course.
Q. I know you've been asked this question a million times, but how are you feeling and how long did it take you to get back in your normal health status and golf status?
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah, so I had the virus for five weeks, and I was quite tired.  It took me like a month and a half to get back to my normal energy and to feel good again.  Yeah, it's been long, but I'm happy I had it, and I'm happy that I'm playing again and feeling pretty good again.
Q. We talked yesterday about how much you like Sergio.  Were you able to watch his Masters victory on television?
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Masters?  Yeah, I watched the whole 18 holes on the Sunday, yeah.
Q. Where were you?  Where were you watching?
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   I was in Hawai'i.
Q. Was it emotional for you?
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah, yeah, I ended up crying.  I know Sergio and he's a good friend of mine, so yeah, him and his family and my family, we've been good friends and he's helped me a lot when I was starting, and I played with him a couple times.  I love his swing, I love how he plays.  I think he's one of the best players from tee to green, no doubt about that.  And then if he putts, normally he's going to be there every week.  He's just so talented, and I'm just so happy that he won last week.  He's playing good again.
Q. What's the best advice he's ever given you?
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   The best advice?  I can't remember anything right now because I used to be with him many, many years ago, so I don't -- I can't remember anything right now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT