ANA INSPIRATION
April 5, 2015
Carlota Ciganda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  A nice little run for you on the back nine to get you to your second straight 68.  How happy are you?  CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah, I felt really good over the weekend.  I was playing very good overall, and I had a great week.  Especially my putting was lots better.  I was playing as good in the first two days.  When you make putts (Indiscernible).  So I'm very happy with the week that I've had, and now I'm happy to have two weeks off.   Q.  How are you going to build off of this result?  This is quite a result at a major.  CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah, usually (Indiscernible), I think I have to keep practicing, keep playing, keep having fun, and I'm very happy with the course outside with my team, and I look forward to keep playing the same.   Q.  Run me through what you were thinking?  Did you think you had a shot at making a run there late on the back nine?  CARLOTA CIGANDA: I thought it was tough.  I wasn't thinking of winning.  I was just playing one shot at a time, and I was playing really good.  And I made a few really good putts on 11 and then 13 and 14, and I'm just happy with the result.  Then on 18 I tried to make the eagle because I had 4 on my second shot, and I tried.  But my chip was very close, and then I made the putt.  So I'm happy with my week.   Q.  Does it mean more this year because of the Solheim Cup?  Do you think about that at all?  Have you thought about it?  CARLOTA CIGANDA: I think about it, but at the same time I'm trying to stay in the moment all the time, and I'm just enjoying being out here, playing this great event.  Of course I am thinking of just staying in the present.   Q.  How often do you look at the standings?  CARLOTA CIGANDA: Of the Solheim Cup?   Q.  Yes.  CARLOTA CIGANDA: Not much.  Maybe the Rolex Rankings and maybe once every two weeks.  I don't like numbers too much.  I just go out there, play golf, and whatever.   Q.  Will you watch The Masters next week?  Who are you pulling for?  CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah, I'm going home next week, so I'm very excited, yeah.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT