HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 6, 2015
Carlota Ciganda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   66; you were awesome today.   
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Thank you, I had a very good day.   I'm very happy with my score.   Yeah, I feel very comfortable out there on the course and had a great playing with Stacy and Hee Young Park.   I really like this course, and I'm playing good, so I'm really looking forward for the weekend.  
   
 Q.   You hit the ball massive distances, but you control it so well.   But is that sometimes your problem with inconsistency, is the control?   
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah, yeah, that's very true.   I hit it far but sometimes I can hit it everywhere.   So I'm hitting the ball good this week.   I change my 3‑wood this year and I'm very happy with that.   
So I'm really looking forward to keep playing tomorrow and Sunday and we'll see what happens.   
   
 Q.   You're looking still for your first win and you had one on the LET, you're looking for your first win but do you feel like the season, the experience of being on the LPGA for a while, do you think you're ready?   
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah, I think I'm ready and I think it helps being here a few years.   So last year, I finished playing really good in the LPGA and LET.   I'm confident, I'm happy, so I'm going to try my best.   And if I win, good; and if I don't win, I just want to keep learning and just keep playing.   
   
 Q.   We're in beautiful Singapore, so not all the time is spent on the golf course.   What have you been doing when you're not here?   
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   In Singapore, we went yesterday for dinner to the Marina Square and then I went to the old town, and it's very nice, great people, great food, and the course, everything, the sponsor, I really like this place and I just want to say thank you to everyone for hosting the event.   
   
 Q.   I understand you play very well when your father is around, and your father is here.   Tell us why.   
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   He's been a really good influence to me my whole life, and yeah, when he comes, he's very positive and when I'm playing good, he's always telling me to have fun out there, to enjoy playing golf.   I think that's the main thing.   
   
 Q.   Does he feel nervous when he watches you play?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   He's very used to it, because he's been traveling with me quite a bit and following me at tournaments, so he's used to it.   He loves the sport and he knows that we can win or lose.   
   
 Q.   You are in a great position, possibly to win your first LPGA title.   How are you feeling right now?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   I'm feeling good.   I'm feeling confident and happy, hitting the ball good.   I'm happy with my caddie.   My dad is here, my uncle and other friends.   We are having a great time outside the golf course and I think that's also very important to enjoy yourself when you're not on the golf course.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT