PORTLAND CLASSIC PRESENTED BY CAMBIA HEALTH SOLUTIONS
August 30, 2014
Carlota Ciganda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Another very solid day.   You seem very relaxed. 
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah.   Yeah.   I'm very‑‑ I'm happy, and I'm just enjoying the time out here.   I like the course.   I'm having good talks with my caddie.   He's telling me ‑‑ like we're just talking a lot, and I just feel like I'm playing at home.   Just a normal day, and I'm playing good, hitting the shots.   So can't wait for tomorrow.

Q.   What has been the strongest part of your game do you think this whole week? 
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   The first two days the ball striking was really good, and obviously my putter yesterday, it was‑‑ it was really hot, and today I didn't start playing that well, I didn't put the ball that close from the hole.   But my putting was good.   I made really good saves for par and made a few good birdies out there.   So I'm just excited for tomorrow and let's see what happens.

Q.   Last time you were co leader going into the final round was Dallas.   What did you learn from that a year ago?
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Have to be very patient out there.   I mean the golf is long.   Tomorrow it's 18 holes.   So I don't really care if I start with two doubles or two birdies.   You have to stay in the present all the time and play until the last hole, the last putt. 
I don't want to think too much about the result.   Just keep having fun, keep trying to hit good shots and don't think too much.

Q.   You've been playing really well, some consistently.   Some not.   What would it mean to get a win here, trying to close out the season and get some momentum going into the Evian and Asia?
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   It would be unbelievable.   I mean I think after the International Crown that was very nice tournament.   My confidence was, I mean went back, and winning that tournament, playing against the best players, it was great.   So after that I felt more confident, and I'm just trying to, yeah, to play my game, don't think about too much, like about other's game, just my golf and have fun outside the golf course, and I think that's the key.

Q.   Bummed to make bogey on the last hole?
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah.   Not the best, but I mean that's a tough hole.   I hit it into the bunker and it wasn't an easy shot, and I didn't make the putt.   It's just remember no.   18 holes, I missed one hole.

Q.   Would a win mean more after what happened losing your coach a couple weeks ago?
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah, it would be unbelievable.   I know he's watching up there, and I would love to win for him.   Yeah, everything I do from now on, it's going to be for him.

Q.   When you're out there, are you thinking about any of his advice from the past or anything?
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah.   I can hear him, like when I'm hitting balls and when I hit one bad shot on the right or to the left, like I knew what he would be telling me.   So I have him very present in my mind.   We spend 20 years together, so that's a lot of time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT