PORTLAND CLASSIC PRESENTED BY CAMBIA HEALTH SOLUTIONS
August 29, 2014
Carlota Ciganda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Gotta be doing pretty well right now.   65.   Couldn't have scripted that much better.   
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah.   Great.   I've been playing good the last couple of weeks, so I'm excited to be here for the weekend.  
Yeah, today was a great round of golf.   I made eight birdies and one bogey, and I was very comfortable, hitting the ball good.   The putts were going in.   So one of those days that everything goes well.  
   
 Q.   How did playing in a two some like that affect you?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah, it was a shame that Mo Martin wouldn't play yesterday.   I wish her all the best, and hopefully she can play in the next weeks.   
But I mean you can't do much.   I mean I was playing at 2:00.   We were waiting a little bit.   But you know you can take your time.   You know you're not going to be on the clock at all.   So it's kind of nice to just play very relaxed and very calm.   
   
 Q.   How do you accredit to playing so much better recently?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   I think I'm very relaxed.   Something bad happened to me like three weeks ago.   I was with my coach for I've been for 20 years, and he passed away.   He died.   So playing now is just for fun.   I mean I'm just playing because I want to play, and I just want to play for him, and I would love to win for him.  
And I'm just very relaxed and I just try to have fun.   If I want to play, I play.   If I want to rest, I rest.   I think there are higher things in life, so I just want to do whatever I feel in the moment.  
   
 Q.   What was his name?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Rogelio Echeverria.   Yeah.   That was tough.   I mean he was 73 years old, and he had cancer but in three weeks he was gone.   And like a month ago I was practicing with him.   And it sucks.  
   
 Q.   How much did he have to do with getting you here today as far as teaching you the game and everything?   What was his role?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   I mean‑‑ I can't speak.   He's the one that taught me everything.   Like I mean I'm here because of him.   And he means everything to me.   I love him, and it's hard.   It's hard to be without him, and I'm just going to play for him, and I would love to win just for him.   
   
 Q.   Did he coach anyone else out here?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   He used to coach Maria, Maria Landis.   But not anymore.   Like maybe he coached for maybe six to eight years, but then she stopped.   
   
 Q.   Between that and obviously playing well at Crown, do you feel like kind of almost a new golfer?   I mean you played so dominantly at Crown.   It seems like you have more confidence recently?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah.   The Crown was big.   I mean winning the tournament with your friends, I think that was ‑‑ for me, like I wasn't playing good leading up to that tournament.   Everything kept going better, and it was one of the best weeks, playing with Azahara for Spain, and winning, you can't really ask for more.   It was great.  
   
 Q.   I was thinking back to when you and Azahara and (inaudible) were down in Eugene, back in 2008 for the Women's Amateur.   
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   What's your memory of that?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   That was good.   Our family, the host family is here.   And we had a great week.   I remember following the final playing against Amanda Blumenherst, and I think she lost in the last hole.   Then I lost in the semifinals against Azahara.   And I played very good, too.   
It was a great week, and again, I mean we are friends, we have been always really close growing up.   It's just so nice to be with them here and playing.   Then you play for yourself, but it's nice to have friends around all the time.   
   
 Q.   What would it mean to win this week after that happening three weeks ago?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   It would be a dream.   I just feel like I'm stronger now and I feel like I can really do it.   Before it's not that I felt like I couldn't, but I mean maybe I didn't have a lot of confidence.   But now I'm feeling good.   I'm feeling comfortable.   I know it's not easy because there are so many good players, but I'm playing good and I would love to win for him.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT