INTERNATIONAL CROWN
July 24, 2014
Carlota Ciganda
Azahara Munoz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   I'm now joined by the victories Spanish team of Azahara Munoz and Carlota Ciganda.   You guys just defeated Onnarin Sattayabanphot and Pornanong Phatlum.   First points of the inaugural International Crown.   How big was that win for you to put the first points up? 
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   I think it was very important.   Carlota and I kept saying all week just keep adding points and even if it's just two, I mean, obviously two, but even if it's just a one.   So from the beginning we started playing really well and kept hitting fairways and greens, we had many chances. 
So we played really well today.   So we're extremely happy to get those two points.

Q.   You guys said the pairings for your Spanish teams, they were very natural, it was a very easy decision.   Carlota, how easy was it for you guys to play together and how much were you guys vibing off each other? 
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   We played a lot amateurs and we also used to play on the teams together, also in the Solheim Cup.   So it's great to play with her.   We're great friends, and on the course everything is very easy and we feel very comfortable.   I can't wait for the next two days playing again with her and beating other teams.

Q.   You looked very comfortable out there.   Take me back to the first tee, you guys standing out there with your other two teammates, hearing that Spanish National Anthem play.   Azahara, what was going through you're mind and how much of the emotions were running high?
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   It was really amazing.   It brought me back to amateur days when we used to play for Spain.   And if you win, you hear the anthem. 
So it was such a good feeling.   And thankfully we got to hear a few of them when we were amateurs.   And this morning it almost brought tears to my eyes because it's so special.   Mike Whan said on the dinner the other day, you know, how in a few years when you look back you'll see how special this is.   I think sometimes we take it for granted, because we are used to playing for our country and things like that, but it is so special. 
So we are really proud to be here and super happy.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT