INTERNATIONAL CROWN
July 24, 2014
Carlota Ciganda
Azahara Munoz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  KELLY THESIER:   Good afternoon everyone, we would like to welcome you to the first day of the International Crown.   Pleased to be joined by two members of Team Spain, Azahara Munoz and Carlota Ciganda, who earned the first two points in International Crown history.   
It's got to be a pretty neat distinction, Azahara, to be the first ever to record points in such a special event.   
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Yeah, it's extremely special.   We have been talking all week, it's really important to just keep adding points, even if it's one or obviously two is great.   
So we are very happy we got to play together.   We always have such a good time out there together.   I actually hadn't thought about the first two points, so that's actually really special.   
KELLY THESIER:   Carlota you guys won 4 & 2.   You guys got to play one time together last year at the Solheim Cup, but I know you two are very close friends.   Does being close friends and having that experience at Solheim Cup help you guys here when you're out here playing in this format?   
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah, I think it really helps.   I think if we are good friends with your playing partner, it's everything much easier.   Usually I play with Azahara lots of years when we were amateurs.   Then we went to school together, we played last year at the Solheim Cup, and so it's a great experience.   
Playing today with her it felt like always, so comfortable out there, just having fun, laughing, and making birdies.   
KELLY THESIER:   You two are two of the few players out here who are familiar with this golf course.   You played it back in 2009 at the NCAA Championships and you guys were members of the winning team at Arizona State.   What did you guys know about this golf course coming in and how did that help you today?   
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   I do remember it playing a little shorter than today.   But I actually remember every hole, so as soon as I stepped on every tee, I knew how I played the hole.   I actually even remembered the clubs I hit five or six years ago.   It's really special to be back for us and obviously bringing us great memories.   
KELLY THESIER:   Questions for the players?   
   
 Q.   I was talking to Bea and Belen about there about the National Anthem, and even talking to them after the round they teared up thinking about it.   How special was it hearing it out there and what emotions were you feeling as it was being played?   
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   It's really special for us.   We love playing as a team, we played a lot in Europe.   Usually when we listen to the anthem, it's because you win.   So that's in Europe.   
So here listening on the first tee was unbelievable.   Great memories.   I had goose bumps.   So it was very, very nice.   
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Yeah, it's, obviously we're really proud to be Spanish and we never play for country anymore.   So it's so special to be here and having something like the anthem on first tee, I actually didn't know until yesterday, I thought it was so cool.   
So they asked us if we would be there and we're like, Of course we will.   
So I was actually tearing up on the first tee.   I'm like, Come on, girl, just get it together.   
So, I don't know, I think that we are all so proud to be part of where we are and it's really, really nice when you get to hear it.   
   
 Q.   Were you able to calm down and kind of compose yourself before you hit those first tee shots?   
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Yeah, yeah, for sure.   
   
 Q.   Similar question, with the Solheim Cup, you're playing for a continent, today you're playing for Spain.   So how different is that?   
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   It is very different.   I've been saying all week that at Solheim Cup you almost feel like you are either with me or completely against me.   Here, everybody is kind of supporting everybody.   And obviously people are going to support the States more, but like you walk by people and they're all like, Oh, great shot.   They clap for you.   
So it is really different.   And at the same time, it's really special because in Europe, we play a lot as an amateur.   Every year we have the European Team Championship.   So that's where Carlota and I always used to play together.   And you represent your country, but that doesn't happen anymore.   So it's really special to be able to do it here.   
   
 Q.   Seve was the master of match play.   Did he leave a legacy with the Spaniards or some inspiration?   
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah, I think all of the Spanish players, we love to play match play and, yeah, Seve was unbelievable.   So I watched him a lot.   Like I remember when he won the British Open and the shots he used to hit and it was really, really nice.   
Then Sergio, he played so many Ryder Cups and Azahara already has two Solheim Cups.   So I think Spanish people, we like to play match play and we like to support each other.   And especially playing as a team, it's really good for us.   
   
 Q.   Are you old enough to remember when Seve and Jose played together in Ryder Cups?   
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   I remember when Seve was a captain in Valdarama, just because I'm from there, and I remember watching it on TV with my dad.   But, no, I don't remember when they used to play together.   I've seen it, but not when it happened.   
   
 Q.   Wondering if you both could compare nerves here compared to the Solheim Cup.   
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   I was a little nervous on the first tee, but, no, nothing like Solheim Cup.   Every year, I've hit the first shot at Solheim Cup and I thought I wasn't going to be able to tee it up.   So I've never felt anything like it anywhere else.   Obviously I was nervous, but not even close.   
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   I have the same feeling.   I was really nervous and we have the adrenaline.   But I remember at the Solheim Cup, I mean I was shaking so bad.   
(Laughter.)  
   
 Q.   Have there been any pleasant surprises this week?   I think that we didn't know what to expect about this tournament.   Has anything pleasantly surprised you in how it's gone so far?  
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   To be honest, everything.   I knew they were building it up big time.   We had a lot of media things to do.   But I really didn't want to expect anything, so I wouldn't be, not disappointed, but, you know, you just never want to expect really good things to happen.   
But so far everything's been amazing.   We love the clothes, we love the golf bag, the head covers, how everybody's treating us.   We got a super nice bracelet from Pandora, and the gala dinner, everything, they ever put out such a good show for us.   The golf course is amazing.   So far everything has been incredible.   
KELLY THESIER:   Pretty incredible experience and now Team Spain walks away with three points after your teammates halved their match.   How do you guys feel going into day two?   Do you feel pretty good walking away with three points from the first day?   
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Yeah, if you tell me I would get three points today, I would take them any day.   But we still got the UnitedStates and Taiwan to play against.   Obviously we're super happy and we're really proud today and we have to enjoy it.   But just focus tomorrow again and keep going, because everybody's really good out here, so our job is not done yet.   We still need more points to get.   
KELLY THESIER:   You guys have until later today, 30 minutes after the final team tees off to turn in your pairings, but have you guys as a team yet talked about what your strategy is for day two?   Are we going to see any changes?   Have you thought about how you're going to approach that?   
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   We thought about it, but it's a secret.   We can't say anything now.  
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   We thought about it because we thought we already had to turn it in.   But I guess not.   So, or we have already almost turned it in, but we'll see later.   
KELLY THESIER:   Thank you very much, ladies, best of luck the rest of the week.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT