SUNRISE LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 25, 2013
Carlota Ciganda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Good day out there?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah, played pretty solid today, 3‑under on the first nine, hitting great shots, making good putts and I birdied No. 10, so I was 4‑under after that.   I 3‑putted 11, but I was hitting good shots and really confident.   
So I just kept trying and I made a really good birdie on 12.   
And then 13, the par5, I hit it to the fairway, and second shot and also on the green, maybe five feet from the hole.   I hit it too hard and then I had a putt downhill and I made 3‑putts from there.   That was a bit tough, making four putts to make a double.   
But, I mean, I have good feelings, I'm playing good, and I think it was hard to play out there today, very windy and tough conditions.   So I think shooting under par, it's good.   
   
 Q.   That has to be pretty positive, knowing that you played well in these conditions.   It seems like it's always windy here.   Does that boost your confidence at all?   
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   It's my first year here, so I'm just trying to learn, trying to get to know every course.   I'm very young; it's my first year playing in the LPGA, so I'm just trying to enjoy myself and I feel very lucky to be here playing.   
I have two more days to enjoy and I'll try my best.   
   
 Q.   It seems like you have fun out here.   I know you hang out with Belen and Aza a lot from college, does that help at all, having them?   
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   It really helps, I love them and it's so nice to just finish your round and you can talk to them, you can go for dinner, you are laughing all the time.   I think that's great.   The more Spanish we have on Tour, the better.   I love Spain and I support my country.  
   
 Q.   You're up there in the International Crown standings.   How exciting is that tournament?   
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   I can't wait to play as a team.   Solheim Cup was unbelievable and playing for your country, it's great.   So I hope I will be there with my friends Aza, Belen and Beatriz, and I think we have a really good team that we can do well.   So we try our best.   
   
 Q.   Speaking of Solheim, you partnered with Suzann this year.   It's looking like you two will play together tomorrow.   Are you excited about that?   
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah, Suzann, on the course, she very focused on her game and she is very confident.   I really like the way she plays.   I think it's a good example to follow, and if I play with her tomorrow, it would be great, because I mean, it's always a great learning experience to play with good players.   
But I'm just going to try to focus on my game and stay aggressive.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT