NORTH TEXAS LPGA SHOOTOUT
April 27, 2013
Carlota Ciganda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   All right.   We'd like to welcome third round leader, Carlota Ciganda to the interview room at the North Texas LPGA Shootout.   Welcome back. 
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Thank you. 
THE MODERATOR:   Another fantastic round for you, 66 5‑under par.   You've got a two‑shot lead going into the final round, looking for your first‑ever LPGA victory, but before we start I have to ask you about your 12th hole.   You hit your drive into the drainage ditch.   It was a little bit submerged in the water, and somehow you got up‑and‑down for birdie there.   Just tell us about the 12th hole. 
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Well, it was unbelievable.   I wasn't very comfortable with my driver, so I hit it to the right, and I was, yeah, in the hazard in the water.   So I was thinking to hit 9 or 8‑iron and I had I think 140 yards to the pin, so Javi told me to hit just the 8‑iron in case because the ball was in the water. 
I didn't think much.   I just tried to hit it as well as I could, and I think I was pretty lucky.   It bounced really well to the right, and then I was lucky again to make that putt.   So I think it was a pretty good birdie.
THE MODERATOR:   Six birdies on the day, one bogey.   You act like you've been in this position a hundred times.   This is your first time really in the hunt on the LPGA.   Certainly you have been on the LET, but how are you so calm out there? 
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   I was just trying to focus on my game, just trying to play my own game and stay in the present.   I wasn't very nervous.   Just a round of golf.   I love playing golf and I feel very lucky to be here on the LPGA.
I had a great match with Caroline.   She's a really good friend of mine, and then Moriya, too.   So I couldn't be happier to play with them, to be playing golf.   Sunny day.   I was just trying to enjoy my time out there.
THE MODERATOR:   During the Golf Channel telecast, Jerry Foltz interviewed your friend Belen Mozo who was following you and supporting you, and she said that you're one of the most amazing athletes, not just golfers but athletes that she's ever met.   What's it like to get a compliment from one of your friends like that? 
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   I mean that's great, and I'm very happy she said that.   Belen is a great friend of mine.   She is so funny.   She's always happy, always trying to make everyone happy, and I mean it's so nice to have her here, and she was following me the back nine with her brother.   So very thankful to them, and yes, thank you, and they know that I love them and I wish them all the best.
THE MODERATOR:   Have you heard from anybody back in Spain, family, friends, other golfers, about seeing your name on the leaderboard every day this week? 
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah, I have.   I had a few messages last night on the phone.   But I mean I just tried to just stay in my game and just stay focused on the tournament and then next week when I go home I'll see everyone and we'll have some fun.
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Carlota.   Right here. 

Q.   Obviously you knew you were playing for the lead.   After you saw Caroline struggle, she had the double bogey at 1 and you had a par to kind of go with the lead, do you watch the leaderboard much or do you just kind of play your game at that point, because at that point you took the lead, and I don't think anybody ever passed you up the rest of the day. 
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   I wasn't thinking of the lead or the numbers.   I was just thinking to play one shot at a time.   Yeah, Caroline struggled on the first hole, but she's a great player.   She's playing great.   She's very confident. 
I played a lot with her last year in Europe, and I know her game, so I know she's going to play great.   I just tried to play my game, to stay in the present all the time, and I didn't really look at the leaderboard. 

Q.   That No. 1, double bogey, you are the only one in the Top 10 that's played that hole under par this week.   What is the secret to your success on that hole?
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   No. 1? 

Q.   Yes. 
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   I just tried to hit my driver like left middle of the fairway, and then just try to hit a good shot into the green and then the putt goes in, birdie; otherwise par. 
I don't think too much.   Just try to hit the yardage and then try to hit good putts.   But I try not to think much on the course.   Just hit the ball and let's see what will happen.

Q.   Can you talk a little bit about the differences between the LPGA Tour and being out here versus the European Tour and how they differ, the golf courses?   Are the speed of the greens in Europe as fast as they are here?   Just some of the differences. 
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah.   I really like the courses here.   I think they are more harder.   I think the greens are faster, bigger greens, too.   And I think it's harder to score here because playing conditions are not easy and the courses are always longer, and you get to play some good golf here to score.
In Europe maybe they are a little bit shorter, and there's not as much grass as here.   And I think that would be the main difference.   I mean I love playing in Europe.   I love playing here.   I think this is great because we are playing with the best players in the world.   And I mean I feel very lucky to be here. 

Q.   You're 6‑under on the par‑3s.   Does that indicate that you're hitting your irons very well?   Is that really the strength of your game right now?
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah.   This week I'm hitting really close on the par‑3s, and I did lots of birdies.   Today I did on No. 6 and 17 I hit it really close.   So yeah, I'm confident with those irons, and let's see if I can keep it tomorrow the same. 
THE MODERATOR:   We'll close on this one.   There are only three Spanish winners in the history of the LPGA.   Of course, Beatriz Recari, who won earlier this year, and 2010, your friend Azahara Munoz, who won the Match Play last year, and Marta Figueras‑Dotti, who won back in the 80s.   How nice would it be to join that club of Spanish winners tomorrow? 
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   It would be unbelievable.   It would be a dream.   I mean winning is always great, but I just want to try to focus on each shot.   Just like today, have a great round and then at the end if someone plays better, just congratulate.   And I think sometimes you have to lose.   So just try my best, try my game and let's see what happens. 
THE MODERATOR:   Carlota, thank you so much.   Best of luck tomorrow. 
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT