NORTH TEXAS LPGA SHOOTOUT
April 28, 2013
Carlota Ciganda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Everyone, we'd like to welcome Carlota Ciganda into the interview room.   Thank you so much for joining us this afternoon.   I know not quite the finish you were hoping for, but a great day out there and a great battle with the No. 1 player in the world.   Just take me through the entire experience of today and what the day was like for you.   
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah.   I'm very happy with my round and with my week.   I think it's a good week for me finishing second.   Obviously I wanted to win, but I mean only one player can win this tournament.   
And I played great.   I had such a great day with Inbee.   She played really good.   I think that's why she is No. 1 in the world, and I think she deserve it.   She played, I mean great shots today.   I was trying my best.   I had two bad holes on the back 9, 14 and 15, hit it to the water and that was tough.   But I tried to fight until the end, and just tried my best.   
I mean it's always nice to win, but I think when you finish second or even worse, I think you learn more from it.   So I think it's a great experience, and I'm happy with my week.  
THE MODERATOR:   Take me through the front nine, you seemed after an early bogey you got things going.   What was really working for you early on in the round?   
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   I hit pitching wedge on my second hole, but it had back spin, so it was a little bit short and then I couldn't make the putt.   And then I was hitting good shots.   I putt really good today, too.   
I made birdie on No. 3 and No. 6 and No. 7, so I was 2‑under after 9, and then I made another birdie on No. 10.   So I was happy and playing good and having fun and enjoying the day.   And then I think, let me see, the hole it bounced to the right, but I had a bogey there and then hit it to the water on 15.   
I mean I finished with 2 pars and a birdie on the last holes, and I think it was a good round of golf shooting under par for the day.   So I can't complain.  
THE MODERATOR:   Take me through on 14 it looked like it clipped the tree.   Is that kind of what happened on that second shot?   
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah.   I was thinking to hit a bounce shot or high and I didn't hit it with my 52, and yeah, it went into the trees a little bit so I was short.   And then my chip wasn't very good and then my putt even worse on that shot, so I couldn't make the par.   And I hit a good 5‑iron off the tee on No. 15, and then I wasn't comfortable with the wind left‑to‑right today, so I hit it to the right.   I think that was one bad shot I didn't have to miss, but I mean I'm happy.   
THE MODERATOR:   I was going to say there's a lot that you can take out of this for sure.   And having had the experience last year, you'd won on the LET, but then to come here and play as well as you did this week, what will you take from your game from what you were able to accomplish this week?   
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   I think my attitude was really good.   Javi, my caddy, too, we just stayed in the present all the time.   We just tried to enjoy every minute.   I think I was hitting good shots, feeling comfortable.   I was making good putts, so it was a great week.   And I would say my attitude of being positive and wanting to fight until the end.  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Carlota.   
   
 Q.   14 and 15, two tricky holes for you.   Can you just talk about those and how you played them this week?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah.   14 was not an easy hole, especially from the tee, because it always bounced to the right.   So I was trying to hit a 5‑wood a little bit to the left of the fairway.   
But it was tough.   So I was a little bit long and I was over the fairway.   And then my second shot I didn't know how to hit it low or high.   I decided to hit it high and it touches the tree a little bit, so I was short.   And then 15, I think I made three putts on that and made a double.   The perfect blend is to hit it to the fairway and then just the middle of the green, but today I was not very comfortable on my second shot, especially with that wind left‑to‑right.   
And I think it can happen.   One bad shot, and I think that's it.   I don't think you have to think too much.  
   
 Q.   One thing, what did you hit on your approach on 15 and did it surprise you to see the ball go in the water?   Did you think you'd hit a good shot or were you surprised when you saw it bounce in the water like that?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   I didn't know because I saw the ball bouncing on the green, so I thought that maybe it was there long.   But when I was approaching the green, I could see that the wind was hard and the ball was in the water.   
So I mean I just tried to make up on that, and I missed my putt, so then it was a 6, and that was it.   I think that was the key hole because until that time I think I was winning by two and then by one.   
   
 Q.   What club did you hit on your approach?   
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   I hit my second shot on 15?   
   
 Q.   What did you hit on your approach?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   I hit a 7.   I had 160 meters to the pin, and the wind was hooking a little bit left‑to‑right, so I knew that it was going to hit 7, and I may have hit it a little bit to the right and it bounced really hard.   And yes, straight the water.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the differences, playing on the LPGA tour and the LET, difference in the courses, the difference in the conditions, anything else you might tell us about the differences?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Playing in the States I think it's harder to score.   The courses are I think you have longer courses.   You have more rough usually, and the greens are usually bigger and faster.   So I think it's great to play here because you get better.   You also play with the best players in the world, and you are competing every week with great players and you have more tournaments, so you can play more weeks in a row.   
Where in Europe it's a little bit more.   You don't have as many tournaments, so you can't compete as much, and then it's great players, but not as much as here.   So I was happy last year because being from Spain and playing, it was great, and the weeks off I could go home and just be with my coach and with my family.   I love that.   
And this year when I play both tours in the States and Europe and maybe next year I'll try to play more here.   But I mean I would like to play here in the future because it's where the best players are and I think you can just get better and improve.   
   
 Q.   How much do you take out of ‑‑ you were playing with the No. 1 player in the world, and I know on the front nine I got to watch some of it and you were basically stroke for stroke with her.   You guys traded birdies.   You traded those par saves at 9.   And you even pumped your fist a couple times.   How much did that do for you knowing that the only difference was probably a couple holes today?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   I was trying to play my game, just trying to stay in the present all the time, and I was telling my caddy just focus on our game, just go shot by shot and just don't think about the other, don't think about Inbee or other players because you can't really control what they are doing.   
I was just trying to focus on my game, and it showed and I think we did really good.   You can always have mistakes, and I'm very happy and I think he did a great job.   
And playing with Inbee, I knew that she was going to play good.   She is No. 1 in the world.   She has won I don't know how many events this year.   She won the Kraft.   So I mean she's playing great, and yeah, I think I just need to congratulate her on her game and her caddy, too.   
THE MODERATOR:   Carlota, from watching Inbee, what most impresses you about how she's playing at the moment?   She has like five wins in her last 18 starts.   Pretty hot stretch.   
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   I would say her putting.   I think on the greens she is one of the best players I've seen.   And yeah, I would say she's unbelievable.   From anywhere she can just hole a putt, and I played with her in China, too, and yeah, she holed so many putts.   And I would say her short game is really good.  
   
 Q.   First year for this event, what did you think of the crowds and how the tournament played out?  
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   I think it's great when people come to watch us play and then all the tournaments are on TV.   We don't have that in Europe yet, so I really love when people come to watch and it motivates me more, so I love that.   
And I want to thank everyone who came to watch the tournament, all the people here at the course, every volunteer, you guys of the media, you guys always do a great job, and I feel very lucky to be here, to be part of the LPGA, to be playing here.   So I don't think I could be more thankful.   
THE MODERATOR:   Any more questions for Carlota?   Well, thank you so much.   Good luck when you head over into Europe, and we look forward to seeing you back here playing again in June.   
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Thanks a lot.   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT