NORTH TEXAS LPGA SHOOTOUT
April 25, 2013
Carlota Ciganda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We Welcome Carlota Ciganda into the interview room, 5‑under 66, she's in second.   If you would just tell us a little bit about your round.   You shot a nice 66 today.
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah.   I started playing good golf today with a birdie on the second hole, which was the 11th, the par‑3. 
I made another birdie on the second par‑3.   I made two birdies on the par‑3s.   I played really good those ones, and I think the difference was that I made a lot of putts today. 
I was playing very good the last week, so I was feeling comfortable with my game.   And I just putted much better than other days.   I was patient out there and just to enjoy the beautiful golf course.   I'm very happy with my round.
THE MODERATOR:   So last year you did something very interesting.   You won the Money List and the Rookie of the Year title on the Ladies European Tour.   You were the first player since Laura Davies in 1985 to do that.   How cool is that? 
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah.   That was a great year for me.   I didn't have a lot of expectations last year.   It was just my first year on the European Tour.   It was a lot fun, getting to travel Europe, []getting to know a lot of people, traveling all around the world.   And it was great.   I was playing just to have fun, to keep enjoying myself. 
I won two tournaments.   And yeah, at the end in Dubai I won the Money List and it was very special when Laura gave me the trophy. 
THE MODERATOR:   So some other players who won the Ladies European Tour Rookie of the Year include Laura, Annika, Suzann Pettersen, Karrie Webb.   How nice is it to be in the same class as those players? 
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah.   Those are very big names.   So it's for me an honor to be part of the rookie Ladies European Tour.   So I'm very happy, and now I'm just trying to win here in the States. 
Last year it was very difficult, and I'm just trying to play my best golf here and try to enjoy myself here.
The MODERATOR:   You tied for sixth at the opening event in Australia this year.   You haven't had too many great finishes since.   How do you explain the nice 67 today? 
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   I think the main defense was my putting today.   I think playing good golf, when you are not putting good, it's hard to score, and I think today I made 27 putts.   So that's really good for me.   So I think that was the key today because I've been hitting good shots, good driver.   So I'm just going to try to keep playing good and let's see if I can make putts.
THE MODERATOR:   Are you thinking at all about the Solheim Cup later this summer? 
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   I mean that would be awesome.   Playing the Solheim Cup with Europe, that would be unbelievable.   I think every European wants to be on that team, and I would love to.
THE MODERATOR:   If there's any questions for Carlota, we'll take them now.   I do have one more.   We have quite a few young Spanish players on the LPGA right now, Azahara, Belen, Beatriz Recari, all of whom have had a lot of success.   Have you looked to them for some advice for any type of friendship out here? 
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah.   They are very good friends of mine, especially Aza and Belen.   We used to play a lot in amateur golf.   When I went to Warrington Estates, Aza went too.   So she was like my sister.   She was always helping me and trying to make me happy all the time.   So it's very nice to come here your first year as a rookie and be with your friends, because you are far from home.   So it's really nice to have those girls, people with you.   So I'm just very thankful that they are here and they are helping me a lot. 

Q.   I know stats can be deceiving, but it says 4 of 13 fairways.   Or were you just a little off the fairways?
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   How many fairways?   4? 

Q.   4. 
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   4?   I didn't know that. 

Q.   Yeah.   But you were still in control is what I'm trying to get at. 
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yes.   It's no problem. 

Q.   With your putting. 
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   I hit a few to the left, but I mean there's not a lot of[] rough here and you can hit it from the rough easily.   So I didn't know that.   But I think the key was my putting today. 

Q.   (Inaudible). 
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   I made a few long ones.   So probably 10, 12 meters.   Yeah. 
THE MODERATOR:   Last one before we go, you're listed as your hometown is Pamplona.   Have you ever run with the bulls? 
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   I didn't.   I think that's really dangerous.   Only crazy people do it.   But I mean I will cheer every year.   It's from the 7th to the 14th of July, and I have watched from the balcony when all those crazy people run; South Americans and Australians.   They're great. 

Q.   (Inaudible). 
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   Yeah.   When they see I am from Pamplona, they always ask me about the Running of the Bulls and if I run.   Yeah. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks so much for joining us and for your patience before.   We appreciate that. 
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   No problem.   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT