ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE OPERATION BASKETBALL
October 16, 2013
Kammeon Holsey
Daniel Miller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  JEFF FISCHEL:   Time to talk Georgia Tech, the upcoming season. 
Give me a season where Georgia Tech picks up this season. 
DANIEL MILLER:   We had an okay season.   We got a little better from the year before.   We lost a couple games by about two or three points that really could have turned our season around.   Thinking we can just build from where we were.   We've added some key guys, some new players that can score and really play ball.   Hopefully that will put us over the edge. 
JEFF FISCHEL:   You improved five wins last year.   How many this year? 
KAMMEON HOLSEY:   It's going to be more than five.   I feel we can improve a whole lot more.   With the addition of Trae Golden, brings a lot of depth and experience to our team.   A great guard. 
I feel like we're going to surprise a lot of people this year. 
JEFF FISCHEL:   We'll take questions. 

Q.   What kind of impact will Trae have on the team? 
DANIEL MILLER:   He has a lot of experience.   He knows game plays.   He knows what play to make, where to be.   He's a real good basketball player. 
He can really push the ball up the floor.   He can get us easy buckets in transition, things like that.   He's just a tough guard.   He'll be really valuable to us. 
JEFF FISCHEL:   You have Trae coming in.   There's a lot of scoring and rebounding on this team.   You must be confident about the fact there's a lot of experience on this team. 
KAMMEON HOLSEY:   No doubt about that, sir.   There's a lot of experience.   The addition of Trae, he brings a lot to the program, to the team.   He has a great scoring ability, awareness of the court, hard worker.   It's going to be exciting to see us play this year. 
JEFF FISCHEL:   Let's talk about Brian Gregory.   What is he like a coach? 
DANIEL MILLER:   He's tough.   He means what he says, but he's a really good coach.   He wants to get to know us, get to know who we are, coach us according to that.   He's not just business.   He loves us.   He wants the best for us. 
KAMMEON HOLSEY:   I would say he's a guy with a lot of swagger (smiling).   He cares about the team a lot.   He cares about what we're doing in the classroom first. 
He always said, You take care of what you do in the classroom, off the court, it will transfer back over to the court.   It's true.   You treat people right, do what you're supposed to do in the classroom... 

Q.   Can you talk about the youth of this team.   Can a young team have success in this league? 
DANIEL MILLER:   Yes, sir.   They helped us out a lot last year.   We put a lot on them really for them stepping up like that.   Those are the kind of players they are.   They're scorers.   We expect more out of them this year to really help us.   We'll have to score from other places as well, not just from them. 
KAMMEON HOLSEY:   I agree with Daniel.   I mean, they're a great group of guys.   Coach put a lot on them, wanting them to do a lot more.   This year I feel they have the experience to do it and the confidence to do it.   I agree with everything Daniel said. 
JEFF FISCHEL:   Let's talk about individually your games.   Daniel, you can score, rebound.   Most fun part of your job blocking shots? 
DANIEL MILLER:   I'd say so.   I'm getting up there among the tech leaders.   I don't think I'll ever pass number one, Alvin Jones.   I take a lot of pride in that.   I've always been good at that. 
JEFF FISCHEL:   Describe your game for me, Kammeon. 
KAMMEON HOLSEY:   Bring a lot of energy, a lot of aggressiveness.   Be a game‑changer.   Just playing hard and doing the little things on the floor, rebounding.   Also, when I get a chance, one‑on‑one, go to work on the inside. 
JEFF FISCHEL:   What does coach think of going one‑on‑one?
KAMMEON HOLSEY:   He wants to attack.   No one can stop you one‑on‑one.   I love it, one‑on‑one. 
JEFF FISCHEL:   How about working down low, Daniel? 
DANIEL MILLER:   If you're in the post, he definitely wants you going one‑on‑one when it's appropriate.   He want us to have a guy doing one‑on‑one the whole game.   When he sees it needs to be done, he wants you to do it. 
JEFF FISCHEL:   Would he be cool with you firing off a three? 
DANIEL MILLER:   Oh, yeah.   He says if I'm open, to shoot.   I got the green light. 
JEFF FISCHEL:   Twitter, what does coach think of you being on Twitter?   Does he allow it? 
KAMMEON HOLSEY:   He don't think very highly of it.   Actually, I don't tweet.   I'm not a Twitter person.   That's a good thing. 
No, we're not allowed to tweet during the season anytime. 
DANIEL MILLER:   He tells us we're not allowed to have one.   He met with us to make sure he had one to promote the program. 
JEFF FISCHEL:   Were you okay with that? 
DANIEL MILLER:   Yeah, he tweeted a picture of us at the airport yesterday.   He's actually enjoying it. 
He's telling us about his followers, things like that (smiling). 
JEFF FISCHEL:   I asked a bit earlier about what it's going through a day like this.   I realize you have to answer a lot of questions.   Is it a fun day, though? 
DANIEL MILLER:   Yeah, I came last year.   I was excited to come this year.   It is a long day, but we get to come and have a good time with all the other players, get to talk to some people, things like that. 
It's also practice, getting ready for giving a speech in your class, things like that. 
JEFF FISCHEL:   You have a speech class? 
DANIEL MILLER:   We're always giving presentations, so... 
JEFF FISCHEL:   What is the last one you gave in your class? 
DANIEL MILLER:   I had to present a game show about three weeks ago.   It was exciting (smiling). 

Q.   Talk about the influx, the new blood coming into the conference with the additions of Syracuse, the like. 
KAMMEON HOLSEY:   It means a lot to the program.   I always thought the ACC was the best conference.   Bringing along Syracuse, Pitt, Notre Dame, all the great schools that have achieved great things in the past.   I feel like it's a great boost for the league. 
DANIEL MILLER:   You're adding some of the best teams in the country to our division.   It's definitely exciting.   Those games, we have to play just as hard every night.   You can't take a night off. 
JEFF FISCHEL:   Give me the three things Coach Gregory is setting out for you guys this season. 
DANIEL MILLER:   We want to win the ACC.   That's one. 
KAMMEON HOLSEY:   NCAA tournament, at least winning 20‑plus games, not setting any limits. 
JEFF FISCHEL:   Last thing.   When we talk about goals for the team, do you have input with them or is something coach is saying, This is what we need to do?   Is it a group thing? 
DANIEL MILLER:   I guess we were all sitting in the theater room when we were talking about it.   He was saying what should be some goals for us.   You're not going to really get those goals unless we all believe in it.   We won't even have a chance. 
Everybody is getting on the same page and we have to do it together. 
JEFF FISCHEL:   Thanks for joining us here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT