U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2019
Andy Ogletree
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Welcome, Andy Ogletree, of Little Rock, Mississippi.  5 & 4 winner over Blake Hathcoat of Fresno, California, advancing to the quarterfinals of the U.S. Amateur.  That has to bring a smile to your face and sound pretty good, I'm sure.   
ANDY OGLETREE: Yeah, there's no doubt.  This is my fourth U.S. Amateur, but I also played one U.S. Junior, and I made it to the quarterfinals there and got eliminated.  So a little extra motivation for this one.   
 Q.  What was the difference today?  What did you do well to win?  
ANDY OGLETREE: I hit a lot of fairways.  He didn't play as good as I'm sure he wanted to, and just kind of took advantage of that, and every time he was out of position, I seemed to hit a pretty good shot.   
 Q.  Are you finding yourself more comfortable with No. 2 as time passes and finding the right places to miss, which is really critical here?  
ANDY OGLETREE: For sure.  Yeah, I was just talking about that.  The greens out here are really tough, and if you miss on the wrong spots, up-and-downs are almost impossible.  Not only hitting the greens but hitting it in the right spot, uphill putts.  The greens kind of have different quadrants that you can hit it to, and you can't really go at every pin, so that's a little different than a lot of golf.  But yeah, I really like it, and it makes you think on every shot.   
 Q.  You had a pretty tight match this morning.  What did that do for your confidence going forward?  
ANDY OGLETREE: That was huge.  He played really good.  He didn't miss a fairway.  Devin and I were talking earlier, he hit 14 fairways, which is pretty impressive out here, so I felt like every time I thought I had that hole, or every time I'd smoke a driver, just something like that, he answered.  You can look at the score cards, and it was just back and forth on the back nine.  We both shot under par, and unfortunately he bogeyed the playoff hole.  But it was a really good match, and it was definitely not given to me, so that was huge for my confidence going forward.   
It was good to play that match because you never know what you're going to see down the road.   
 Q.  And then you were 4 & 3 in your round of 64 match, another pretty easy victory, an early victory today.  What can you take away from those kind of rounds when you're playing so well?  
ANDY OGLETREE: It's good to get ahead and stay ahead.  That's huge for your confidence.  I just want to keep doing that.  I mean, obviously match play is all momentum, so once you get it going, you can't really let off.  You've got to keep hitting fairways out here, keep putting yourself in good positions, and if you get behind, you can't really chase pins, and that's the biggest thing that I learned.  I've never been more than 1-down because I played the North and South earlier this summer, and I think that was really good as match play.  Same deal as this.   
I got behind at North and South and started chasing pins and learned a lot.  You just have to make pars out here.  You don't have to make birdies to win.  18 pars is -- you've got a good shot.   
 Q.  I was going to ask you about the North and South, but you answered a little bit.  How are the course conditions different from North and South back in June?  And second part of the question, curious to see how much your game -- what part of your game has improved in your three years being at Georgia Tech?  
ANDY OGLETREE: Yeah, my game has gotten a lot better since I got there.  When I got there, it was just see flag, hit flag.  I was not very well-rounded with my game I would say.  My short game wasn't there.  I had some incredible rounds because I could hit it pretty good.  But I wasn't an all-around player.  I've kind of learned and learned and learned and gotten better with my short game, and my scoring average has gone down a stroke a year.  So it's been really good.   
And the course conditions here this week are honestly pretty similar to North and South.  The greens aren't as fast, but everything else is the same.  You can't really change the rough out here.  There's no rough.  So it's all the same sand dunes.  Fairways are the same.  And the pin placements are pretty similar.  I was talking to Devin in our practice round, like hey, they had it here in match play, hey, they had it here in stroke play, and they've been pretty similar.  The North and South is -- I thought it was a really good move to play that tournament to get ready for this.  It's two days of stroke play, same courses, and then match play.  Really glad I did that.   
 Q.  The quarterfinal is going to be a Bulldog and a Yellow Jacket.  Are there any extra bragging rights on the line there?  
ANDY OGLETREE: No we're really good friends, so we're looking forward to that.  We actually said earlier in the week, hope it gets to that point.  No, we're both happy just to make it this far, but obviously we want to move on and get to that championship match.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT