U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2017
Andy Ogletree
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Must have been nice to finish with a birdie on 18, huh?
ANDY OGLETREE: I actually made par.
Q. Oh, you made par?  Okay.  They said you were 3-under, right?
ANDY OGLETREE: I was 3-under.
Q. Take me through the birdies.
ANDY OGLETREE: Well, birdied 1, actually; made like a 40-footer, so that was a really good start to the day.
I feel like 1 and 2 out here are the hardest holes to me, and to get off to that good start was really crucial today.
I birdied 1; I birdied, let's see, 7.
Made a bogey on 8.
It was good to bounce back with a birdie on 9.  Really kept my round going I feel like.
So I turned at 2-under and birdied 11 and bogeyed 12.
Birdied 16 and then just parred in.  So it was really good day.  Really solid.
Q. You said No. 1 is the hardest hole.  You start with a birdie.  Must get you off to a great start mentally.
ANDY OGLETREE: Well, I mean, starting in these tournaments you really want to get off to a good start.  Ale only two days of stroke play.  If you make some really bad numbers you're just done pretty much.
So it was really good to just get that birdie under my belt and get going on the day early.
Q. The fact that you got a bunch of Georgia Tech guys here probably is helpful to have a little camaraderie.
ANDY OGLETREE: For sure.
Q. Kind of have a little bit of a home feel for the event, right?
ANDY OGLETREE: Right.  We all hang out and some of us are staying together.  It's been a really fun week so far.  I hope they all play well, too.
Q. You're 3-under at Riviera, which is good feather in your hat to start the Am.  Everybody wants to get to match play.
ANDY OGLETREE: Exactly.
Q. How did you play at Bel-Air in your practice round?
ANDY OGLETREE: Yeah, I feel like I'm from the sounds, so Bel Air has Bermuda.  I'm used to Bermuda.  I feel like the course fits me really well.  Greens are good out there, too.
I feel like there is definitely a good number out there.
Q. Did you have any kind of expectations at all about how you were going to play this week?
ANDY OGLETREE: I mean, I played good all summer, so I felt like coming in I was playing good.  Just stick with my game plan and make some putts.
Q. Okay.  So is this your first Am?
ANDY OGLETREE: No, second.
Q. Second one.  When else did you play?  Last year?
ANDY OGLETREE: Two years ago at Olympia Fields.
Q. Okay.  Los Angeles experience here at Riviera, is that something that got you a little bit more excited about trying to get to the Amateur?
ANDY OGLETREE: Yeah, for sure.  Missing last year was really -- that hurt me a lot.  Obviously everybody's goal at the end of the summer is to play good in the Am.  Not getting to go last year, I didn't like that at all.
Helped me.  I think got me a little more prepared this year.
Q. What is the strength of your game?  How does it play into these two courses?
ANDY OGLETREE: Probably driving the ball.  Drove it really well today.  I think I only missed one fairway.  Out here that is really, really crucial.  It's pretty demanding off the tee.  It's a pretty long course.
I think Bel Air is pretty much the same thing:  a lot of drivers.
Q. How many drivers did you hit today?
ANDY OGLETREE: Oh, goodness.  I don't know.  Let me think.  I think I hilt 11.
Q. Wow.  And only missed one fairway?  That's good.
ANDY OGLETREE: Yeah, really good day.
Q. What's the key with the Bermuda do you think?  You mentioned that specifically.
ANDY OGLETREE: Well, the grass out here the grain grows straight up.  The grass, the bermuda has grains, so it grows in a certain direction.  Chipping out here the club kind of bounces.  Chipping in Bermuda it kind sticks in the ground if you're into the green.
A lot of people aren't the used to the bermuda and it gives them a hard time.  I feel like just growing up on bermuda I know how to play it.
Q. If someone tells you you're 3-under at Riviera in the first round of the U.S. Amateur, what do you say?
ANDY OGLETREE: I feel like that's a really solid round out there.  You obviously have to make some putts out here to have a good day.
There are just some good holes if you get in some bad spots you're going to make bogey.  You have to really make some birdies out here.
Q. You seem like you're a guy who's pretty composed and you're definitely not somebody who is going to talk big about their game.
ANDY OGLETREE: Right.
Q. Does that help you when you play?
ANDY OGLETREE: I think so.  Just staying in the moment every shot just like it's the first shot of the day.
Can't really think about -- like when I made the turn, can't really think I'm 2-under at the U.S. Am at Riviera on the hard nine.  You got to just think, All right, let's start over every shot and just play every shot to the best of my ability.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT