MASTERS TOURNAMENT
November 14, 2020
Andy Ogletree
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ANDY OGLETREE: Yeah, I got off to a good start. It's a long day. I played eight holes this morning, was playing pretty good to start the morning, and then kind of picked up right where I left off. I made a good putt on 12, made a good save on 11, first of all. I laid up, had like 106 yards, saved a par there, made a good putt on 12. Two‑putted 13 for birdie. So 2 under through four. Playing 10 and 11 is great any time. 
So I felt like I was off to a good start and then just kind of coasted. I couldn't really get any putts to go in. I couldn't hit it close enough. Made a couple of bogeys and then a birdie on 8, but it was a good day. I had it bogey‑free for a long time, then made a couple of bogeys. Got in a couple of bad spots off the tee. So clean that up and get after it tomorrow.


ANDY OGLETREE: Yeah, I know. I've played five rounds in major championships, and I've played with Shane every time I've played. So definitely getting to know him pretty well.


ANDY OGLETREE: Yeah, we had a fun group. I actually played a practice round with Ian in the U.S. Open, so familiar with both of those guys. They're obviously really funny guys. So we talked a lot, and we all played pretty good, so that was fun.


ANDY OGLETREE: Yeah, definitely feels a lot more comfortable starting today. It felt like a weight off my shoulders to make the cut, first of all. Not only just playing with Tiger, but to make the cut╩‑‑ yeah, I mean, there was definitely some pressure playing with Tiger. Every shot that you hit is watched all over the world. I mean, I'm not going to shy away from that. That's how it is, but there was a lot more people out there this morning. Not so much this afternoon, but it was still super comfortable. 
I felt like after the first few holes playing with Tiger, I was comfortable yesterday and today. So not much different.


ANDY OGLETREE: I don't know.


ANDY OGLETREE: I'm sure there's a lot of people watching. I know I've gotten a lot of texts, a lot of support from back home. I'm looking forward to getting back there. I don't know when I will, maybe Thanksgiving or so. So I'll get to see everyone, and I'm sure everyone will have their congratulations and show their support.


ANDY OGLETREE: No. I'm just trying to make as many birdies as I can and play my best golf. If that turns out to be low am, I'm super thrilled with that. That's every amateur's goal that plays here is to win low am. Yeah, just go out and try to make as many birdies as I can. Thanks. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT