U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2019
Andy Ogletree
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Andy Ogletree, U.S.Amateur champ, how does it sound?  
ANDY OGLETREE: Sounds pretty good to me.  
   
 Q. It would to anybody. You to me showed so much tenacity and you were so relentless, especially after getting 4‑down after 5. What do you say to yourself? What do you do? How do you kick yourself?  
ANDY OGLETREE: To be honest, I didn't play that bad. John just got off to a great start. He's a great player. I knew it was going to be a tough match, and it's a long day. 36 holes is a lot of golf, and you can't really beat yourself up over the first six. I really did a good job of staying in it, and I just knew if I kept hitting fairways and greens and keeping myself in position, it would work out.   
   
 Q. It is a long day, especially when you never get the lead until the 32nd hole. Now what do you say, you've been chasing him all day now, now you have the lead, now what do you feel like?  
ANDY OGLETREE: I didn't feel anything different really, just keep going, just keep sticking to my‑‑  
   
 Q. Come on now.   
ANDY OGLETREE: I really didn't. Yeah, I mean, just trying to keep hitting fairways and keep hitting greens out here, that's huge, and if you can do that, you're in pretty good shape.  
   
 Q. Do you realize the names on this trophy, Bobby Jones, Jack Nicklaus, Arnold Palmer, Tiger Woods, and now yours?   
ANDY OGLETREE: Yeah. I think it's going to take a while to sink in, but it's unbelievable.  
   
 Q. You decided to lay up on the 13th hole. You hit it on the green, made birdie. He didn't. Big change there?   
ANDY OGLETREE: Not really. I mean, I don't think there's a wrong play there because we're both really good wedge players. I kind of figured John would lay up and he went for it, and sometimes it pays off and sometimes it doesn't. I hit a really good wedge shot and he had a good look at birdie, too. So I don't think that was a big turning point there, just went my way and didn't go his way, that's all.  
   
 Q. You're still such a young man, but I'm sure you somewhere along the way had big dreams. Did you ever allow yourself to dream this big, the Masters, the U.S.Open, the Open, now holding the Havemeyer Trophy?  
ANDY OGLETREE: Yeah, I don't know if I've gotten that far yet, but it's reality now, and it's unbelievable.  
   
 Q. You did it at a fantastic place, Pinehurst No.2. Congratulations, enjoy and have a good year at school.   
ANDY OGLETREE: Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT