NCAA WOMEN’S GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2016
Julianne Alvarez
Wenyung Keh
Mary Lou Mulflur
Ying Luo
Sarah Rhee
Charlotte Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We are joined this evening by the Washington Huskies, head coach Mary Lou Mulflur as well as student-athletes Julianne Alvarez, Wenyung Keh, Ying Luo, Sarah Rhee and Charlotte Thomas.  We'll do some quick opening statements and then take questions from the audience.  Mary Lou, talk about the excitement for your program getting to the championship match tomorrow.
MARY LOU MULFLUR: Just thrilled for these guys.  They've worked so hard.  You have two seniors that they've been through a lot in four years, and it's a long process, and it's long hours and a lot of work.  Then you bring in these three new freshmen that just have been unbelievable this year, not just as players but as teammates and as people.
You know, you have to earn everything that you get in life, and I feel like they've earned this opportunity.
THE MODERATOR: Ying, talk a little bit about as a senior, talk about the excitement of being able to get to the championship match for yourself tomorrow as well as your teammates.
YING LUO: It's amazing, like unbelievable.  I feel like I can't believe what Sarah did on her 19th hole.  That hole-out was just amazing.  Like we are so excited.  Before we came, we came for a title.
THE MODERATOR: Charlotte, same question for you.  Talk a little bit about the excitement of getting to the championship match tomorrow and your expectations as you go against Stanford.
CHARLOTTE THOMAS: Yeah, like Ying said, our freshmen have been unbelievable and they literally won today for us.  They won all three points for us, and that's a testament to who they are and what they've done this year.  It's been unreal, like working with them and having them as teammates this year.  It's been really, really cool.
But senior year, every round at the national championship could be your last one as a college golfer, and there was a chance that that was going to be the case for me and Ying today, and the fact that Sarah did that was just the most incredible thing.  It was like a roller coaster of emotions, and it's just really, really cool to be here.  Like Ying said, we came here to win it, and that's what we're going to try and do tomorrow.
THE MODERATOR: Sarah, obviously everybody is talking about not only your teammates around the country, but talk a little bit about your mindset as you stand there over that shot and what you're trying to get done there, and obviously we saw the results, but take us through the mindset.
SARAH RHEE: Just walking down the 19th fairway, I feel like I worked really hard the last three holes, and I didn't want to go back after working that hard.  I just stepped over the shot, and my mind just went blank, you know, and it ended up going in.
THE MODERATOR: That's a huge shot for yourself.  Have you had anything that compared to what you experienced today?
SARAH RHEE: No, that was by far the biggest of my career.
Q. Wenyung, take us through your mindset.  You're a freshman, obviously haven't been through this before, but as you go into tomorrow's match and kind of your expectations, your thought process.
WENYUNG KEH: Just have fun tomorrow.  Patience -- I forgot what I was going to say.
THE MODERATOR: Julianne, talk about your expectations going into tomorrow.
JULIANNE ALVAREZ: My expectations going into tomorrow, obviously Sarah and Ying said it, we came here to win, and that's what we're going to try and do tomorrow, but as far as my expectations, yeah, just have fun, like Wenyung was saying.  Got to focus on the present moment and just stay in that and then just -- yeah, go have fun.
Q. Mary Lou, talk a little bit about the match tomorrow and just trying to get your mindset right.  What kinds of things will you tell your team tonight and tomorrow?
MARY LOU MULFLUR: It's going to sound silly, but having fun.  Our goal this week is to have the most fun of any team, whether you're 3-up or 3-down.  It doesn't matter.  And those guys, they've just absolutely embraced it.  If you were in on any of our van rides, it's just hilarious.  They really do have fun every minute that we've been here.
I just can't tell you how proud I am of them, and to embrace that as freshmen, because a lot of times, what, this isn't fun, this is da-da-da-da-da, and they know when to work and they know how to work hard.  And Sarah, that was a great statement:  I worked hard; I'm not going back.
It's just an amazing accomplishment to do it with two seniors and three freshmen, to have the opportunity to win a national championship tomorrow.
Q. You've been through this many times obviously as a head coach.  Talk a little bit about -- you talked about the pride of going into the championship match tomorrow, but when you started this week, the last Thursday's practice, and now here you are coming into Wednesday to play again, did you expect your team to be here?
MARY LOU MULFLUR: That was our intention.  That was our intention.  But you know, you have to have a lot of things.  You need a little luck.  You need skill.  You need hard work, and more than anything, you've got to want it.  We beat some great teams today, and everybody wants it.  Everybody works hard for it.  It just -- it's a remarkable accomplishment, and it's just going to be a blast.  It's like playing our best friends tomorrow.  We love Stanford.  We spend a lot of time with them at tournaments and talking with them back and forth, and it's like a dream where Anne and I were like pinching ourselves.  We couldn't believe it.  It's unreal.
Q. I know Eugene Country Club has meant a lot to you.  When you were I think maybe nine years old you won a championship here?
MARY LOU MULFLUR: Yeah.
Q. But here you are many, many years later, but talk about being here in Eugene and how special it would be if you were to win the championship tomorrow?
MARY LOU MULFLUR: Yeah, being from Oregon and growing up in Portland, Eugene was always a great place to be able to play growing up.  It's an incredible golf course.  The membership has been unreal, staff, everybody here.  You know, this is coming home for me.  My dad was here today, and that was pretty special.  It just is -- it is.  I can't think of a better place to have this happen than in this state.
Q. Charlotte, kind of talk about as a team what you're going to try to do over the next less than 24 hours, try and get your mind right, take this into Wednesday, then coming back tomorrow and what it's going to take to win the championship?
SARAH RHEE: The first thing up is our trainer has to carpool karaoke on the way home.  She's got to put on noise-cancelling headphones and play a song and sing it for the whole car, so that's first.
And yeah, then we're just going to try and go home and get a good night's sleep, have fun, just chill, probably do some homework realistically, get up tomorrow morning and just get ready for the day and try and enjoy the moment as much as possible, stay in the present, and yeah.
THE MODERATOR: Congratulations.  Look forward to seeing you tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT