PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2013
J.C. Anderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   76 today, you're the last group to tee off, were conditions a lot different at the time of the day?   
JC ANDERSON:   I think if there was an opportunity to have Oak Hill at its easiest, my tee early/late was it.   We haven't had to play in any rain.   The course was soft and it was there for the taking.   In the two times I've played the PGA here, during the week, the Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday practice rounds, the course was incredibly hard.   But this week, the last two days, it got easier and I think you could see in the scoring, I didn't see 63s and 64s here in the practice rounds.   
But you get soft greens, and, hey, these guys are good.   
   
 Q.   Which holes did you find particularly tough?   
JC ANDERSON:   Well, you know, 17, 18, 8 and 9‑‑ 7, 8 and 9 are all good finishing holes on both nines.   You can't miss a shot, or you're struggling to make par because of the rough.   Even when it's laying down a little bit today, it's still over half a stroke penalty to hit in the rough.   And that's what I did a couple times, and I paid the price.   I hit in the rough and made bogeys.   Every time I hit in the rough, I made bogey.   Like I said, it's almost a stroke penalty.   
Yesterday I was able to punch it out and get up‑and‑down for pars a few times.   I didn't do that today.   
   
 Q.   What do you think it will be like this week?   Do you think it will be a little tougher with it drying out a little bit?   
JC ANDERSON:   I think it will.   I hope it will.   I want to tell people when they look at my scores and then they watch it on the weekend, they go, hey, this is a hard golf course.   I think it will firm up a little bit, although it's really mushy out there in places still.   But I don't think the greens, I think The PGA of America would like the greens to be a little firmer.   But you're susceptible to what Mother Nature gives you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT