THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 11, 2012
Charlie Wi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Seven birdies, obviously rolling it the way you want it to?  
CHARLIE WI:   I hit the ball really close today, as well, so when we teed off, I was third group off and the greens were in perfect shape, so there's no excuses.   If you can get it on‑line, you're going to make some putts out there.  
   
 Q.   Do the conditions favor the morning, based on the fact you played yesterday afternoon?  
CHARLIE WI:   I'm not sure what the conditions were like yesterday morning.   But yeah, I played almost nine holes without wind, so that was very beneficial and I was able to roll off four birdies in the meantime.   
I know the wind is picking up a little bit, so I'm sure the course is going to get a little bit trickier and tougher.   
   
 Q.   Is it a golf course where you had to grind all day today and pay attention to every shot?  
CHARLIE WI:   Yeah, whenever you play Sawgrass, the greens are so difficult; if you just relax for a second, you miss it in the wrong spot, and it's very easy to make a bogey or double, and I've done that many times in the past.   
It's a place where you have to stay focused and be ready for the shot that's coming up and make sure that you're fully committed.   
   
 Q.   What happened on 18?  
CHARLIE WI:   I saw Francisco Molinari's chip go right by my mark, and it was really fast.   I thought I hit a pretty good putt and I had a 3 1/2 footer downhill and just pushed it a little and missed it.   
   
 Q.   What do you feel like you've done well the last two days?   
CHARLIE WI:   Well, yesterday, I just kind of salvaged 1‑under, but today I hit the ball a lot better, and I was able to make some putts.   
   
 Q.   You've been in position going into the weekend a few times recently.   Do you feel more comfortable?   I know you've been on TOUR for a while, but getting more comfortable with the experience?  
CHARLIE WI:   I think the more you put yourself in position to win, I think that it just becomes habit.   
I think that one day, I'm going to break the door down here soon.   
   
 Q.   How about in terms of the course, how it played this morning, seems like it's getting a little breezier out here; a lot of guys are going low this morning.   
CHARLIE WI:   I think there's a few guys that shot really low scores in the afternoon, as well.   So the greens are still very receptive, so if the wind stays like this, I'm sure there will be some good rounds out there.   
   
 Q.   How does this rate in terms of how you've seen this play in the past in terms of difficulty?   
CHARLIE WI:   Well, condition‑wise, it's perfect.   I've never seen it better.   You can tell always by when you get to the 11th tee box, usually there's no grass there but this year, it's just perfect.   
The conditions of the golf course is perfect, and you know, it's always great to play this tournament.   
   
 Q.   There was no winter here.   
CHARLIE WI:   The conditions, it's perfect out there.   
   
 Q.   What did you work on from day one to day two, or what did you do better in your ball‑striking?   
CHARLIE WI:   Nothing.   It was such a quick turnaround.   I didn't get home until almost 8:00, and I had a 4:30 wake‑up call this morning.   My main goal was to shower and go to sleep.   
   
 Q.   What's the toughest hole out here for you?   
CHARLIE WI:   You know, I don't know why‑‑ I was kind of going over the round yesterday, and as soon as I get to the 16th tee, my nerves kick in.   I don't know why.   Yeah, it's just really weird and yeah‑‑  
   
 Q.   Your second shot‑‑  
CHARLIE WI:   I pushed it in the rough and had to lay up to the left.   But I hit a good tee shot on 17 and made birdie there, so that was good.  
   
 Q.   Why did you get up at 4:30?  
CHARLIE WI:   Because I had a 7:30 tee time.  
   
 Q.   What kind of routine do you have that requires you to get up at 4:30, unless you're staying in Orlando for the week.   
CHARLIE WI:   It takes me a while to get going.   So 4:30, and I'll stretch and do a little warm‑up in my room.   Get out of here about an hour and a half before and have some breakfast and get ready to go.   
You know, three hours before your tee time, that's‑‑ I think most players, as well.  
   
 Q.   You must be thrilled for that 9:00 start when you go early.   
CHARLIE WI:   You mean the later morning?   Yeah, yeah, I love that.   I hate the first group off or something.   It's just too early for me.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT