ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 23, 2012
Charlie Wi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Obviously you followed up a good round one with a good round two; how did you do? 
CHARLIE WI:   You know, I played really well.   You know, I didn't hit the ball quite as well as I did yesterday, but I was able to shoot 4‑under, very pleased.

Q.   You started hot at Pebble, now at Bay Hill; is there something in your game that's clicking? 
CHARLIE WI:   My ball‑striking has been pretty consistent.   It's just a matter of making putts.   My pace has been really good. 

Q.   Good iron play, good putting, precision; is there anything in the last six months or beginning of the season that you've learned?   I know every now and then some people have certain things that pop in their mind that they apply to their game. 
CHARLIE WI:   I know do I get rattled out there, but I'm able to overcome it easy.   I think my self‑belief and confidence, that's showing. 

Q.   You want a victory, wondering through your experiences, do you have any new approach or different approach on how to handle pressure down the stretch in contention? 
CHARLIE WI:   Well, you know, that I can't really answer, but I know that I've been there just recently a couple of months ago. 
So I'm sure I'll draw on a lot of the experience that I had at Pebble Beach on Sunday when it does get close.   We still have a long way to go and I'm not thinking about that quite yet.

Q.   Playing with a player tomorrow that attracts so much energy, noise, crowd, however you want to experience it; what are your experiences and plans with playing with him? 
CHARLIE WI:   Well, I've known Tiger since junior golf days, so I've known him for a long time and I'm comfortable with him.   Hopefully I can get some of his energy towards me. 

Q.   Have you had a relationship from junior days; is that somebody that you may have comfort with? 
CHARLIE WI:   I've known him since I was 13 and we played in college.   We've been friends a long time and I'm really good friends with one of his best friends.   Tiger is a good guy and I look forward to playing with him tomorrow.

Q.   Do you cherish those moments? 
CHARLIE WI:   Yeah, that's the reason why we play out here.   Tiger is the man, and it's going to be fun tomorrow.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT