AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 12, 2012
Charlie Wi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Tough day early, you fought all day, comment on the day as a whole?
CHARLIE WI:   I started off with a 4‑putt and that's probably not very ideal.   I hung back in there and to come back and shoot even par I was pleased.   No regrets out there.   I know missed some short putts but I know that I'm a good putter.   Second place finish, I'm pleased and disappointed that I didn't get to win but my time will come.

Q.   Did nerves play into that first hole at all?
CHARLIE WI:   Definitely.   The pin was in a very tricky position, and my second putt broke probably about two inches outside of the hole.   My third putt broke two inches outside the hole.   Those are pretty good breaking putts and nerves definitely had something to do with it.

Q.   When a guy shoots 64, it's tough to feel like maybe you didn't‑‑ he went and got it.   Phil went and got it today?
CHARLIE WI:   I guess so.   I missed a lot of short putts out there, and if that wasn't the case, I would be right there next to him.   But that's golf and I'll be there again soon. 

Q.   You talked candidly about your self‑doubt, how hard was it to shove negative thoughts aside after the first hole? 
CHARLIE WI:   You know, I'm very pleased with myself, the way I hung in there, because after doubling the first hole, you could definitely let yourself get away but I kept fighting and I give myself a chance at the end. 

Q.   What was it like following the group in front of you, I know obviously following Tiger‑‑
CHARLIE WI:   It wasn't too bad.   First, we are used to it out here a little bit.   And the first few holes were very slow.   So there was a lot of waiting and hitting.   But once we got going, it wasn't too bad at all. 

Q.   So you talked about how it's up to you, the outcome of the tournament was on you, will you look back and think if you had made those putts and shot 68‑‑
CHARLIE WI:   There's a lot of ifs.   I think that we put a lot of emphasis on today because it's the last round but I'm sure there's putts that I missed in the beginning of the week that I'm sure I want back, as well.   So I'm pleased with the result and I'm looking for a good one next week at Riviera.

Q.   How different was it when you played it previously? 
CHARLIE WI:   Conditions were about the same.   The greens were still very firm and you couldn't short‑side yourself out here, otherwise it's an automatic bogey unless you are making a 15‑footer.   I controlled the ball very well and I'm happy. 

Q.   How surprised are you with what happened?   We all know Phil has 64s in him but for Tiger on a Sunday‑‑
CHARLIE WI:   I don't even know what he shot actually.   So I couldn't worry about Phil or Tiger.   I was worrying about Charlie Wi out there. 

Q.   Where was the pin on 1? 
CHARLIE WI:   It was front left and it's a really dicey pin and I'm really surprised that they put the pin there with the speed of the greens. 

Q.   You talked about winning internationally, some very good tournament, but how restless are you to win on this tour?   You've given yourself so many chances now?
CHARLIE WI:   I don't know.   I just know my time will come and the more I think about it, the more pressure I put on myself, I don't think it's doing me any good.   So just keep plugging along and I'm sure it will happen soon. 

Q.   Do you think you're getting closer, like these experiences? 
CHARLIE WI:   Definitely today, the way I fought back and hung in there, because the 4‑putt on the first hole, I was really shooken up pretty badly and my strokes were pretty iffy at best.   So to fight back, it was really good, and I missed a short one on 6, short one on 15, so I hung in there all day. 

Q.   You said you missed a bunch of short ones‑‑
CHARLIE WI:   I 3‑putted 6 and I missed the 3‑footer on 15 straight up the hill.

Q.   When you got to the 2 tee, what was the conversation like with your caddie? 
CHARLIE WI:   No, nothing.   I was still leading the golf tournament so I said, you know, I told them, winning a golf tournament is never easy.   And that's how I looked at it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT