AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 9, 2012
Charlie Wi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Welcome Charlie Wi to the interview room here at AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro‑Am.   Charlie, just some opening thoughts on your round today.   You took it low.   What might have clicked out there? 
CHARLIE WI:   You know, first three weeks I wasn't making the putts when I had it close, and I wasn't able to convert when I had my opportunities.   Any time you're shooting 9‑under, you're making putts.   It was really nice to see the ball go in today.

Q.   (No microphone)?
CHARLIE WI:   Birdies on 3, 4, eagle on 5, and then I went‑‑ is that right?   No, no, I birdied 4, 5, and eagles 6.   Parred 7 and birdied 8, 9 and 10.

Q.   When you got that 8 through 13, and it's a par 70‑‑
CHARLIE WI:   I didn't know it was par 70.   I was looking at the scorecard like what's the par here?   I did not know it was par 70.   I thought it was par 72.   Yeah, that 59 never crossed my mind, not once. 

Q.   Is that a good thing? 
CHARLIE WI:   Yeah, I mean, you know, 59 is a special number, but I wasn't trying to stay at nine.   I was trying to make more birdies, so it wouldn't make much difference.

Q.   (No microphone). 
CHARLIE WI:   Yeah, I made some long ones.   On four, about 18 feet, 5, it was about 20 for birdie and 6, about a 15‑footer for eagle, a driver, 5‑wood.   Then on 8, hit my driver, 6‑iron to 12 feet.   Made that.   About 9, hit it to about five feet, and made that.   On 10, I made a 15‑footer.   So I made some good putts out there.   What else?   I hit one close to 13 to about a foot.   I made about an 18‑footer on 15.

Q.   You said you weren't putting and the ball wasn't going in the hole the first couple of weeks.   Did you change anything? 
CHARLIE WI:   No, I wasn't getting it started online.   I love Torrey Pines, but I think I was starting it online and I maybe wasn't getting the right bounces there. 
But can't blame the greens.   Last week, the greens were so nice.   Sometimes they go in and sometimes they don't.   So I kept doing the same thing, practicing the right way.   I knew that eventually the tides will turn.

Q.   Even on a day there is no wind on the first day of a tournament, did your mind tell you I've got to go low today? 
CHARLIE WI:   No, not at all.   I'd never been that successful at PCC, and I thought if I shoot two, three, four under, that would be a good score.   I didn't have a score in mind.   I just wanted to make sure my execution was good out there, and luckily I was able to drop some putts.

Q.   Did you win a state amateur here at all? 
CHARLIE WI:   Yeah, 1990.   My first amateur tournament ever, right out of high school.

Q.   Details, please? 
CHARLIE WI:   There are no details.   I beat Paul Stankowski in the semis.   And I beat a Stanford guy in the finals, Jerry.

Q.   (No microphone_.
CHARLIE WI:   No, I have not tried them.   I told the guys, the product they had last year, they were fantastic already.   They said the rocket ball with a 3‑wood is 15 yards further.   How much gap do I need between my 3‑wood and my 5‑wood?   So I haven't given them a try yet.

Q.   What kind of affinity do you have for this tournament? 
CHARLIE WI:   What kind of feeling? 

Q.   Yeah, do you have any feeling coming here? 
CHARLIE WI:   Oh, Pebble is probably my favorite course.   It's the number one course in my mind.   That's my favorite.   Winning the state amateur means a lot.   Since I went to school at Berkley, I have a lot of friends that come down to cheer for me.   It's really nice to be up here, especially when the weather's nice.

Q.   (No microphone)?
CHARLIE WI:   Yeah.

Q.   Was everything at Pebble? 
CHARLIE WI:   No, the qualifying rounds are at Cypress.   Cypress and MPCC, the one that we play.   Then the match play was at Pebble.

Q.   That was your first amateur? 
CHARLIE WI:   Yeah, that have the first time.   I never even set foot on Cypress before.   I did not play a practice round at any of the courses because I couldn't afford it.   They were really expensive.

Q.   You had to pay for practice rounds?
CHARLIE WI:   Yeah, yeah.   I didn't play any practice rounds.   I just said, oh, well, my first amateur tournament, and whatever happens, happens, and it happened.

Q.   (No microphone)?
CHARLIE WI:   Yeah, yeah, like today was good.

Q.   How bad did you beat Stankowski? 
CHARLIE WI:   I beat him on the 19th hole.   Ask him.   He'll still talk about it.

Q.   Which was the 19th hole, the first? 
CHARLIE WI:   Yeah, number 1.

Q.   How bad did you beat him? 
CHARLIE WI:   3 and 2, 36 holes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT