FRYS.COM OPEN
October 8, 2011
Charlie Wi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Charlie, another 64 back in the same group, ties the course record. Kind of talk about your round today and we'll have a few questions.
 CHARLIE WI: I hit the ball really well today. Kept giving myself opportunities and I was able to make some puts. I don't know what you guys want to hear, but you guys can ask questions. 
 THE MODERATOR: Questions? 

 Q. Did you get anything at all out of Kevin winning last week, a guy that had been out here a long time and finally broke through? Does that help you at all? Slightly similar story to yours that he moved over here at a young age?
 CHARLIE WI: I played with him in the last group on Saturday and he played really well. I'm sure you saw the the whiff on TV as well on 15, because that was very well talked about. He played very well. I feel like you give yourself enough opportunities and you're going to break through. I know that I give myself a lot of opportunities and eventually it's going to happen. 

 Q. (Inaudible.) 
 CHARLIE WI: Yeah, you know what, I hit a good driver and 5-wood just over the green, and I chipped to four feet and I don't want to make any excuses, but it was going into the hole and it hit something, it kicked right and lipped out. I made a 30-footer on 16, hit it in the left bunker on 17 with the driver and got it up-and-down, hit a great second shot on 18 to about 10 feet and made that. I hit a lot of balls at the pin and I was able to convert a lot of those opportunities I had today.

 Q. (Inaudible.) 
 CHARLIE WI: When I was in college, I never played here. Last year was the first year I got to see it. I think the course is growing on me. When we first got here, I thought whoa. I know that when the greens get firm, it will be a very challenging and great test of golf when that happens. 

 Q. (Inaudible.) 
 CHARLIE WI: Well, that was a long time ago. I mean, I've had a lot of up-and-downs since then. I just know that I like being near the lead and it's fun. That's why we practice so hard. The final group, I was in the final group and I draw some of the experience I had from that. Golf is just a funny game. Today you can have a great day and tomorrow you don't know what is going to happen. I'll just try my best and see what happens.

 Q. (Inaudible.) 
 CHARLIE WI: I think he was burnt out trying to follow Tiger with all those people. So he came and said I'm going to follow you. There weren't that many people watching me.
 I have got to say something about Adam. He is such a wonderful player. I got a chance to play with him today. I know he finished third or -- from Canada. I was very impressed. 
 I also played with Bud Cauley on Tuesday. These kids, I mean, they are like five-seven and they hit it so far that it's scary. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thanks a lot, Charlie. Good luck tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT