AT&T NATIONAL
July 1, 2011
Charlie Wi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How good are you feeling about your short game right now? 
 CHARLIE WI: I mean, I'm striking the ball really well. I gave myself a lot of chances out there today. I've always had a pretty solid short game, and I've been working really hard on my driving. My driving hasn't been very good the last couple years, so driving is the most important part of scoring out here. If I keep driving the ball well, I'm going to be right there.

 Q. What do you like about this place? What sets up about it well for you? 
 CHARLIE WI: I don't know. I've done really well on tough golf courses out on the TOUR, and I think that I stay really patient and maybe that my focus is a little bit tighter when the golf course gets harder.

 Q. 5-under for you, pretty good round, but seemed like you had to really scramble there on 9 but you did it and had a great par save. 
 CHARLIE WI: Yeah, I didn't finish off the round like I wanted to. I played really well for 16 holes and hit some loose shots coming in. But overall shooting 4-under out here is really good, and I'm very pleased with it.

 Q. What was the key to you scoring that low round today?
 CHARLIE WI: I drove the ball really well, hit a lot of fairways, and on this golf course you have to hit fairways to give yourself a chance at birdie, so I was able to do that today. If I maintain doing that hopefully I'll be in the running for Sunday.

 Q. Did you see where you are on the leaderboard? Obviously at one point you were at 6-under, but you must have seen that you were one stroke back. 
 CHARLIE WI: Yeah, I'm really good friends with K.J. Choi who's leading the tournament, so on the last hole I was in the middle of the fairway and I told Mark -- I didn't tell him, but he goes, you've got to play to the right of the pin, and I thought in my mind --

 Q. You're going at it?
 CHARLIE WI: Yeah, because he's a good friend of mine and I would have loved to have played with him tomorrow. Yeah, but I was pleased to make par, and we'll see how it goes tomorrow. 

 Q. Going into the weekend now, you're set up pretty well as far as a couple strokes off the lead. What do you have to improve on? 
 CHARLIE WI: Well, I guess you've got to stay aggressive and play smart out here. You know, this is the kind of golf course where you can run up a bunch of bogeys. You've got to really stay patient, and par is a really good score out here. You're really not going to lose too many spots if you make par. If you stay patient out here, that's probably the most important thing. 

 Q. Can you give us your birdies and bogeys? 
 CHARLIE WI: No. 11, hit it to about ten feet, driver, gap wedge to about ten feet.
 On 12, I hit my driver, 9-iron to about 12 feet, made that. 
 Then on 18, I chipped it in from 20 yards away left of the green, so that was really nice. 
 No. 1, I hit driver, 9-iron to about 30 feet and made that.
 And No. 3, hit my driver, lob wedge to about five feet and made that. 
 7, I hit 3-wood, pitching wedge to about four feet and made that. So yeah, hit the ball pretty solid today.

 Q. On 9, can you just take us through that hole?
 CHARLIE WI: Yeah, it was a left-to-right wind and was trying to draw it back into the hill and pushed it out, and when I went to hit it, it was in the right rough. I actually hit a really good second shot out of the middle of the fairway and pulled a third shot left of the pin and made a very good up-and-down. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT