AT&T NATIONAL
July 2, 2010
Charlie Wi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 65, that's great playing. Just comment on a great round on a difficult course. 
 CHARLIE WI: Yeah, you know, I stayed really patient. The pins are really difficult today, and going out in the afternoon the greens were really firm out there. There were a couple times when I went for the pin and went over the green, and I could have really kicked myself. But I kept telling myself to be patient, and I was able to roll some putts in today.

 Q. What's it like, this kind of week with the golf course set up so tough? What does it add to the event?
 CHARLIE WI: I think it's awesome. AT&T has always done a great job hosting at Congressional and here, two of the best courses we play on TOUR. You don't get to play enough of these courses, old style courses, so it's really nice to play them when we do.

 Q. Describe your season coming into here. 
 CHARLIE WI: I've been very consistent. I haven't had too many high finishes, but I've always been right there in the 20s. You know, playing really well, and keep doing the same things I'm doing.

 Q. Some guys this morning who came in and shot well, they said they thought the course would become a little bit easier as the wind died down this afternoon, and sure enough, most of the guys at the top of the leaderboard played in the afternoon. Did you see a marked difference? 
 CHARLIE WI: Well, the greens are very firm. I don't care if the wind was blowing or not blowing. I don't know how hard the wind was blowing this morning, but those greens are really firm, and it was like -- humidity is down, so the greens are really firm out there. You still have to hit the right shots at the right time, and I don't care how easy it might seem on TV, but it's very difficult out there.

 Q. Compared to yesterday morning how were the greens?
 CHARLIE WI: Oh, it was definitely firmer. Yesterday we were able to go for some pins and not worry about going over, but they were rolling out probably five to ten yards.

 Q. Did that affect your choice on the tee? 
 CHARLIE WI: Well, 8 is interesting because it actually slopes left to right, and I know the pin was back right, but it's actually almost better coming from the right-hand side because you're chipping uphill, so that's probably not a good example. But when the greens are firm and the pins with tucked, you usually take a wider line.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT