TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 24, 2010
Charlie Wi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MARK STEVENS: Charlie, thanks for joining us for a few minutes. Bogey-free 64 in Round 1, very successful Round 1 at that. Obviously you gotta feel confident about the way you're playing and the fact that you got the round in today. Sounds like we might have some weather. Just some comments on the round.
 CHARLIE WI: I played really well today, obviously shooting 64 is good anywhere. The conditions were perfect when we teed off, and the winds didn't really start picking up -- it didn't start blowing until I got to about the 7th hole, so I was able to make a couple birdies when the conditions were perfect. 
 And even the winds blowing out there, greens are very receptive, so if guys are hitting the ball solid, they're still going to have a lot of opportunities out there. 
 MARK STEVENS: Okay. We'll open it up for a few questions.

 Q. The last four or five holes, can you just talk about what all happened there?
 CHARLIE WI: Yes. On 10 I hit a great driver, hit 8-iron to about four feet and made that. And on 12 I hit driver, gap wedge to about 15 feet and made that. 
 The next hole, I hit driver, 6-iron, sand wedge to about 20 feet and made that. And hit a driver 7-iron on 14 to about 15 feet and made that. So I really rolled the ball really nice today. 

 Q. The course pretty much got rolling near the fairways and greens are pretty receptive?
 CHARLIE WI: Yeah. I know the winds have picked up out there, but if the rains come, it means they're going to be really soft, and even though it's windy out there, the greens are going to be very receptive in the afternoon also.

 Q. Just reading back, I didn't see your name in the last three weeks. Did you try for the U.S. Open? What all happened?
 CHARLIE WI: Yeah. I played from PLAYERS to Colonial, played four straight, and my intentions were to go back home for a couple of weeks and play the Open. And I tried U.S. Open qualifying in Sacramento and missed that, so I had a nice three weeks off. It went by fast, though.

 Q. Did you do anything different?
 CHARLIE WI: No. I didn't do anything. I don't know where the three weeks went. I mean I wish I could have been home longer, but it was time to come out here and play some golf and make some money. 
 MARK STEVENS: Okay. Charlie, short and sweet. Thank you. Keep it up.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT