ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 25, 2009
Charlie Wi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. If you keep hanging around that lead, something really good can happen on on Sunday?
 CHARLIE WI: Yeah, I hope to make some putts tomorrow. I had my chances. Other than the bogey on 17, I played really solid today. The course was very difficult out there. 
 I know that if I keep making pars and get a birdie once in a while, I'd be near the lead. So we'll see what happens tomorrow.

 Q. How much has green speed and the greens changed from Thursday going into the final round? 
 CHARLIE WI: Well, you know, for me, the greens look so fast, but believe it or not, in the afternoon, there's a lot of growth. So it's very deceiving. I left a lot of putts short. 
 Really shiny and down grain, but by the time we come to it around 3:30, 4:00 o'clock, the greens have slowed down a lot. So tomorrow I better adjust to that, and hopefully get some putts in the hole tomorrow.

 Q. It's also difficult when you're playing downwind and we've had some breeze today, and they put the hole location in the front end. It's difficult to get that ball in there tight?
 CHARLIE WI: Yeah, definitely those holes in the front. We didn't have as many as we did yesterday. It was a lot easier in that sense. But at the same time, the course played really difficult out there today.

 Q. Did you like them moving up the tee on 16? 
 CHARLIE WI: Well, you know, I don't know how many guys went for it. But it's the right idea to have an exciting finish. But with the wind conditions, it was really tough for guys to go for it. So I'm pretty sure 90% of them laid up.

 Q. You look at the scoreboard and you're seeing scores from guys like you, bogies on the last holes. It's not an easy closing stretch here, is it? 
 CHARLIE WI: No, it's very difficult with the wind conditions. Especially on 17, you get it next to the water. And you make mistakes there. I've put it in the water several times there. So I know not to go anywhere near the water. 
 So I bailed out right, and I had a tough chip to get up and down. It depends where they put the pins tomorrow, it will be an exciting finish.

 Q. Let me ask you about that. We've got Jerry Kelly out in front, but a pretty bunched leaderboard after that. How do you weigh being aggressive with the wind blowing like it did today? 
 CHARLIE WI: You really have to stick to your game plan, because, you know, one bad move, you could easily make a bogey out there. Especially when it's bunched up, you could go from third to tenth. So you got to be careful what you do out there, and you stick to your game plan. You want to be aggressive but conservative at the same time.

 Q. Any idea why you think this course has had four straight first time winners? 
 CHARLIE WI: I don't know. It's tough for me to answer that one, but I hope to be one tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT