THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 5, 2009
Charlie Wi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Thoughts on the day?   
 CHARLIE WI: I thought we might get a break this morning, but the wind started blowing when we went to about 12, so we had two holes without really much wind.  
 My playing partner John Huston said it best: This course is relentless coming up to the last hole. I played really nice today and made some putts. I'm very pleased with my round today.  
  
  Q. You had the lead at one point and go to six and you had a double-bogey, what happened?  
 CHARLIE WI: I overdrew a drive into the water, and when you do that, it becomes a par 5. I felt like I just made a bogey and just went on to the next hole.  
  
  Q. What was the key to your round today?  
 CHARLIE WI: I hit the ball really solid. I mean, that's probably the most important part; when it's windy, you have to hit the ball solid so the wind doesn't affect the ball so much. Hitting the ball solid was the key to the round today.  
  
  Q. Is this course geared towards your game?  
 CHARLIE WI: I don't know, I've had some good rounds here. It's hard to say. Golf is a funny game. I've played really well a couple of years ago, and I didn't do so well last year. So we'll see how it turns out this year.   
  
  Q. 3-under par, you got done in the morning, played in a little bit of wind, what, about 12 holes in; when did the wind pick up for you?  
 CHARLIE WI: You know, it picked up pretty much right away. We played the first two holes without the wind and when we got to 12, it really started blowing, which was our first nine.   
 This course is so relentless, to shoot 3-under par, I feel really good.  
  
  Q. When you teed off this morning with no wind, there had to be a part of you that thought, "Okay!"   
 CHARLIE WI: I did look at weather.com, and said it might be calm till about 9:00. That was totally wrong, because we teed off at 7:00 and the wind started blowing at 7:30.   
 I know the guys in the afternoon, it's going to be really tough for them out there. So, you know, luckily the greens are pretty soft, where the shots are pretty receptive.   
 So TOUR officials did a good job keeping the greens pretty soft so that we can actually stop is on the greens.  
  
  Q. We saw the rough is not up as we've seen in years past, but the wind, it seems like the wind has put the teeth back into this course even without the rough.   
 CHARLIE WI: Oh, definitely. A 420-yard hole I'm hitting driver, 5-iron; driver, 3-iron. I mean, I don't think you need much rough when you're hitting 5-irons and 3-irons into these small greens.  
 I know a couple of years ago, the rough was really thick, but there's spots out there that it's pretty thick out there. So you still have to hit the fairways and still hit the greens.  
  
  Q. What are you happiest about with your game going into Friday now?  
 CHARLIE WI: I'm really rolling the ball well. I'm seeing the lines well, which is important when it's windy and playing tough. I'll just keep doing the same thing over and over again.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT