VALERO TEXAS OPEN
October 12, 2008
Charlie Wi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Charlie, I don't know what your travel plans are but you're going to have to stick around here for a little while, my friend.
 CHARLIE WI: Yeah. That's okay. You know, supposed to head to San Jose for a the Pro-Am with a bunch of guys here. Hopefully they'll wait around for me.

 Q. What a great round of golf, 61, 9-under par. You did everything you could. 
 CHARLIE WI: I talked to you this morning and I told you if I make some putts out there I'll give myself a chance but Zach went pretty low, he has some birdie holes coming in. We'll see what happens.

 Q. 124 into the flag stick on your 72nd hole and you go from gap wedge to pitching wedge. I thought you hit it right on line.
 CHARLIE WI: Yeah. The wind is kind of tricky out there, especially the last couple of days. First two days we had -- it was normal prevailing southeast wind straight down. Yesterday and today was a little bit more cross and into. It was really that way. I would have liked it a little bit closer but I was happy.

 Q. Great putt, too, that had 30 written all over it. Just nose dives at the end?
 CHARLIE WI: Just told myself to make the motion. I thought I made that. We'll see how it goes.

 Q. Absolutely. You have to be so proud of yourself with the effort today. 
 CHARLIE WI: I hung in there today, kept giving myself chances and made some putts today which helped me shoot 61. I'm very pleased.

 Q. Stick around we'll see how this plays out.
 CHARLIE WI: Thanks.

 Q. Talk about 61, got to be a pretty special round out there today. 
 CHARLIE WI: Yeah. You know, before I teed off Elkington shot 61 so I knew it was out there but I didn't think I was going to do it. I'm very pleased and was able to make some putts. It added up to 61.

 Q. Still searching for your first victory on Tour. You're in the hunt now. 
 Did you feel like you were in the hunt out there or trying to go as low as could you?
 CHARLIE WI: I was pretty far back starting today so I knew that I needed to make some birdies out there. I just kept pressing myself to make more birdies and more birdies and, you know, this is why we practice so hard, to be in contention and it was a lot of fun out there.

 Q. The driver, the irons, what was working, everything? 
 CHARLIE WI: I'm, overall, a pretty good ball-striker. I've been working on stack and tilt, Mike Bennett and Andy Plummer. I was able to make some putts and that was the difference today.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT