PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2008
Charlie Wi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about your day?  
 CHARLIE WI: You know, I don't -- I still haven't felt very good the last couple of days and I thought I found something, but obviously the last round I didn't hit the ball well at all. But I was able to hang in there.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 CHARLIE WI: Yeah, it was a lot of fun. I turned to my caddie and said, "This is a lot of fun, isn't it." It was really cool.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 CHARLIE WI: Yeah, you know, I played with him in L.A. this year a little, Padraig and I, and he did the same thing. He just hung around, hung around, made some pars, and it turned out he finished third.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 CHARLIE WI: Yeah, a little bit tired, maybe, you know, but I feel okay. But I'm tired probably mentally more than physically.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 CHARLIE WI: Yeah, you know, the first hole is a really good putt I hit there. But I'm pretty happy with how it all worked out. I'm not disappointed at all.   
  
  Q. How nice would it have been if that putt had gone in at 18?  
 CHARLIE WI: That would have been cool. Yeah. That would have been awesome. But a 2-putt from down there is pretty good.   
  
  Q. Was there a point where you thought that you wouldn't win and so you started --  
 CHARLIE WI: Well, I was 2-under after four, and I hit a couple of loose shots. I think the biggest thing was when I was on No. 6 again and I made a bad decision. I thought that I was making the right decision but hitting 4-iron off the tee and trying to wedge it close, but that was a poor decision.   
 I should have hit driver up there and hit it close and try to make birdie that way. And then I pulled it in the left bunker and I made bogey and that was it.   
  
  Q. You hit a good drive, though.   
 CHARLIE WI: Yeah, but it was just a pulled approach shot.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 CHARLIE WI: Yeah, yeah, you know.  
  
  Q. Are you disappointed with the way you finished?  
 CHARLIE WI: No, I tried my best. Having this experience under my belt is definitely going to help me next time.   
  
  Q. What did you learn from this?  
 CHARLIE WI: I learned that I can compete with the best, and I just need to keep playing my game and keep believing in myself, and I'll be right there again.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 CHARLIE WI: Well, I'm currently sitting pretty far down.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT