PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 7, 2008
Charlie Wi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What did you think of the course?  
 CHARLIE WI: Well this is probably the hardest course I ever played in my life. But luckily the course was playing fast enough where when we played on Tuesday the fairways weren't rolling out as far so the holes were much longer.   
 But the fairways were so dry that you could hit 3-woods on some of the 500 yard holes and still have 6-irons in. So that made a big difference.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 CHARLIE WI: Well, I mean the thing is that every Major, whatever, you have to have thick rough. So we should be used to that. It's not like it's the first Major that they have done it.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 CHARLIE WI: Yeah, yeah, I mean, sure.   
  
  Q. Did you just play one hole after?  
 CHARLIE WI: Yeah, we were waiting on the ninth tee when they blew the horn.  
  
  Q. Could you tell any difference, was there enough rain to make a difference on that green?  
 CHARLIE WI: Maybe the speed of the greens. But the firmness is still there. It's going to slow down just a bit though.   
  
  Q. You said you should be used to it, but it is your first Major.   
 CHARLIE WI: Well, on TOUR, on the PGA TOUR, we play rough like this every week. I mean pretty close to it.   
 So if you -- when you're hitting it in the rough, I mean it's a penalty. So it's not like -- I guess it's probably as fair a Major as in any, any other Major, because the rough out here is, it isn't thicker than some of the ones we play. Like the ones we played in Canada, that was probably thicker.   
  
  Q. But you still think it's fair it sounds like. I mean it's tough, obviously, but.   
 CHARLIE WI: Well, it's fair for this week. But I wouldn't want to play here every day.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 CHARLIE WI: Just got carried away, I should have been, I hit a bunker shot that rolled off to about 18 feet and I just kind of went brain dead, hit it about three or four feet by and you can't do that out here.   
 When you make a mistake, just take a bogey and you just can't make double bogeys out here.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 CHARLIE WI: It was very difficult. I had a probably a 3-footer and probably had like a 6-footer coming back.   
  
  Q. Was that sort of an example of like you say, making a mental mistake?  
 CHARLIE WI: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Or a brain lapse and you really pay for it?  
 CHARLIE WI: Exactly. Bogeys are fine because you can recover from that, but doubles are really difficult because that's two birdies instead of just one. Because at a Major par is always a good score.   
  
  Q. Looking ahead you got to be happy with where you're standing.   
 CHARLIE WI: Yeah, you know, but I don't know, I mean I don't think anything of it.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 CHARLIE WI: But that I got it close? Yeah, like on 11 I had it about two feet.   
 12, about three feet.   
 10, I mean 1, I hit it to about 10.   
 2 it was about six feet.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 CHARLIE WI: Yeah, and I missed that, it hit something. I hit a good putt there.   
  
  Q. All in all a good first start to a Major?  
 CHARLIE WI: Yeah, sure.   
  
  Q. You got to be pleased even no matter whether there's three days to go or whatever.   
 CHARLIE WI: Yeah. No, just I -- I don't know, it's hard for me to say because I know it's a Major, but it doesn't seem like any other different in any event than on the PGA TOUR.  
  
  Q. It doesn't have that feel right now?  
 CHARLIE WI: I mean it does. There's a lot more people out here on Tuesday and Wednesday, but you go to a Phoenix Open, there's 100,000 some people, you know.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 CHARLIE WI: Yeah.   
  
  Q. I go there every year, I know what you're talking about.   
 CHARLIE WI: Yeah. So it's not like, you know, I could see the guy that I played with, Eric, he struggled a little bit. I don't think he's ever played in any events before and I could see how that was, because I remember my first year out on TOUR I was nervous just around the putting green because I feel like everybody is watching me. But now you don't notice that any more.  
  
  Q. Did you have any different set of nerves than any other tournament going to the first hole?  
 CHARLIE WI: You know, believe it or not I didn't. I was very surprised, I thought I was going to be more nervous, but I wasn't.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 CHARLIE WI: Did I? Oh, I'm good friends with him. I haven't played with him in a while but.   
  
  Q. He talks about playing golf with you.   
 CHARLIE WI: Yeah, yeah, we have a friend that owns a restaurant in Westlake. So we hang out there a lot together. He likes wine and I like drinking wine too, so.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 CHARLIE WI: Yeah, he and I. Yeah.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 CHARLIE WI: Well, we're a friend of the family, I guess. Come on along, you know.   
  
  Q. Tomorrow you're off early, good day to get out there and --  
 CHARLIE WI: Yeah, the greens really firmed up today, so hopefully they will water a little bit and then soften it up a little.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 CHARLIE WI: No, but, yeah, but the thing is that they will probably have three holes left. But their tee time is not until 9:30. Even if they stop at 7:30, they will just finish and then start. I don't think there will be any delay.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 CHARLIE WI: I'll start probably right at 7:30.   
  
  Q. That's true because those holes will be open, won't they.   
 CHARLIE WI: Yeah.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT