THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 1, 2007
Charlie Wi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   CHRIS REIMER:  65, finished with birdie, birdie there on 17 and 18.  Just talk a little about your day and happy to be in this position I assume. 
 CHARLIE WI:  Yeah, I hit the ball very nice.  I really had two good practice rounds Monday and Tuesday, and I didn't hit any balls because I was hitting it so good.  
So I came out today and I think I missed one fairway today.  Pretty much hit most of the greens.  So I gave myself a lot of opportunities and was able to make some putts.  So, you know, that was the last couple of weeks -- the difference this week is I made some putts today.  And I've been striking it good all year, it's just a matter of making putts. 

 Q.  Pretty easy course, Charlie? 
 CHARLIE WI:  No, it's so tough. 

 Q.  Not very long, not very windy out? 
 CHARLIE WI:  When I first got out here on Monday, I was going, this is probably the hardest golf courses I've ever played, one of the hardest.  Because like No. 10 was into the wind, 11 was into the wind and they were playing both 520 and 480 and we said, "oh, my gosh."  But luckily the wind changed.  I believe this is the prevailing wind we had today.  It still was tough but they had some of the tees up, so it made it a lot easier for us to get around the golf course. 

 Q.  Just getting to 5 today, you're probably pretty confident that's going to hold up, to finish the way you did too, also it's got to be just a huge, huge emotional lift for you. 
 CHARLIE WI:  Yeah, it's just Thursday.  We've got three more rounds to go. 
 I had a good start in San Diego, shot 9-under.  So I've been near the lead before.  So, I mean, it's always good to be near the lead.  It's a lot more fun than when you're in the middle of the pack.  So I'm really looking forward to tomorrow's round.  
 Q.  Did you think starting when you did that you would catch a break with the wind, because that wasn't the case, but when you saw the times, were you hoping that you might get a few holes before it really started blowing? 
 CHARLIE WI:  No, you know, actually I didn't even think about that.  But it blew pretty good starting on hole 1.  So I'm glad it was fair conditions for everybody. 

 Q.  Do you generally like to play in windy conditions?  Do you consider yourself a good -- 
 CHARLIE WI:  You know, I grew up in California, so I didn't play in too much wind.  But I've had some success in the wind but also I've had some -- shot terrible scores in the wind, so I've had both.  So I really can't -- I really don't think I'm a great wind player, but when you're striking the ball really well, I think that it really helps in the windy conditions. 

 Q.  I'm sure that you probably have few complaints about the greens, a lot of guys are saying that they are just fantastic. 
 CHARLIE WI:  Yeah, the greens, they are really rolling so nice.  I mean, you know, they stay on line very good out here and it's very true out here also. 
 CHRIS REIMER:  What's your year been like so far? 
 CHARLIE WI:  I had a Top-10 at San Diego, and finished like 20-something at I think Phoenix and then missed the cut the rest. 

 Q.  Did you come here with some frustration then or how are you doing? 
 CHARLIE WI:  No, you know, my coach said it best.  He says, "It's not a sprint.  It's a marathon."  You know, when he said that to me, it made a lot of sense, because missing the cut last week, I mean, I hit the ball nice but I didn't putt very well.  But I think it can get to your head.  He just said, "You know, you're striking it beautifully and there's no need to panic.  It's not a sprint."  Just thinking that way really helped me just calm down and just play my game. 

 Q.  I'm not asking this to be funny, but when people who don't know you or are unfamiliar with you, people, fans out on the course, when they hear your names, how many times have you been asked if you're related to someone? 
 CHARLIE WI:  You know, surprisingly I don't get as much as you think.  Because maybe the difference in spelling or something. 

 Q.  But out there, they probably don't realize that if it's just the casual fan who hears the name -- 
 CHARLIE WI:  Two years ago at the John Deere when Michelle played, my caddie overheard one of the spectators saying, "Oh, that's Michelle Wie's dad.  He got a sponsor invite, too."  That was the funniest thing.  This was in Iowa.  I'm not knocking on Iowa.  That was hilarious. (Laughter.) 

 Q.  What about approaching this year, is there anything special or different in your goals or preparation for this year? 
 CHARLIE WI:  Well, my first year in 2005, you know, could you say I struggled quite a bit, but learned a lot.  So being out here the second time, you know most of the players and you've seen some of the courses. 
 So I felt a lot more at ease when I started the year, and I knew that my game has gotten a lot better the last few years, also. 
 You know, I'm just more confident, and I'm just more relaxed out there. 

 Q.  Can you tell us what it was like to stand at the 15th and 17th tees, those two difficult par 3s in the Bear Trap, what that's like when you go plug your ball? 
 CHARLIE WI:  Very difficult.  I hit 7-iron on 15, probably cleared the water by a couple of yards and hit 4-iron, great 4-iron on 17 to about 15, 18 feet.  So, you know, when you're hitting the ball solid, when it's your day, I think that you're able to pull those shots off. 
 But, you know, when you're struggling a little bit, it could be a difference in missing the green or something and making a bogey.  Today was definitely my day, hitting the ball, and I'm really happy that when you have the opportunity to capitalize on it, that's really important to me. 
 CHRIS REIMER:  Let's go through your clubs here and your other birdies and bogeys.  You started off on 1ment. 
 CHARLIE WI:  Hit 5-wood, wedge. 
 2, hit driver, 8-iron. 
 CHRIS REIMER:  How far was the putt on 2? 
 CHARLIE WI:  Probably about 15 feet. 
 4, hit 3-wood in the bunker and then hit my wedge in the bunker and didn't get up-and-down. 
 Birdie on 7.  6-iron to about 25 feet. 
 9, driver, wedge about 12 feet. 
 CHRIS REIMER:  Easy 10th hole. 
 CHARLIE WI:  Driver, 3-iron in the right bunker and didn't get it up-and-down.  I told my caddie, "That's a good par."  
 13, I hit driver, 7-iron to about 40 feet. 
 18, I hit driver, 4-iron, wedge to about 15 feet. 
 CHRIS REIMER:  So you rolled some good putts today. 
 CHARLIE WI:  Definitely.  I was actually playing pretty conservatively out there because it's so windy, you know, just trying to give myself chances.  You know, I was able to make some putts today. 

 Q.  Just a 5-under day on a windy day like this has just got to be -- is it beyond your expectations? 
 CHARLIE WI:  When I started, you know, I figured shooting 1- or 2-under would be a good score.  But you know, I had the -- the difference between me now than maybe I was like two years ago when I was out here is like when the opportunity comes, I know to go and get it.  You know, there's no reason to be happy if you're 2-under par, because that was -- maybe if that was your goal teeing off. 
 Shooting 5-under, I didn't even expect that, but able to just keep telling myself to, you know, go get it instead of being just content at being at 2-under.  Yeah, 5-under is a great round. 
 CHRIS REIMER:  All right, Charlie, thanks so much.  Good luck. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT