RENO-TAHOE OPEN
August 2, 2013
Charlie Wi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Charlie, nice playing out there.   Give us some comments on the round.   
CHARLIE WI:   Played well.   The course plays very difficult, as you guys know.   We were able to calculate the numbers properly today and make some putts today.  
   
 Q.   Greens a little quicker today?  
CHARLIE WI:   They were definitely a lot more smoother than it was yesterday.   So it was nice to play in the morning.  
   
 Q.   Wind not nearly what we saw yesterday.   How much did that help?  
CHARLIE WI:   You know, yesterday, on Wednesday when we played the Pro‑Am, you know it was blowing pretty hard.   But it was going just one direction.  
But yesterday it was going all over.   That's why it was so difficult.   And today, playing with the nice conditions, it was really good.  
   
 Q.   I think I talked to you about this the other day:   You're in a good spot.   What would it mean to win?  
CHARLIE WI:   I have some friends here.   But it's always nice to win anywhere, so I look forward to that.  
   
 Q.   You like this format?  
CHARLIE WI:   It's a lot of fun.   Yesterday I got off to a rough start.   It was minus 3 after nine holes.   And I just told myself, couple birdies I'm on the plus side.   I just tried to chip it away one at a time.   Here I am now.  
   
 Q.   Is there any difference between that first nine and the last 27?  
CHARLIE WI:   You know, the first nine played really tricky, especially 16, 17, 18.   The wind was all over.   So the only thing different was that the winds calmed down a little bit in the afternoon for us.   So there were times when we could shoot up the pins.  
   
 Q.   What do you think is the difference in your play today?  
CHARLIE WI:   Just my short game, made some nice par saves, need to shoot a low round.   And I made some key putts, such as I made an eagle on 13, which was very important.   
So I think Stableford form is pretty fun because I just jumped plus five and I was in the top ten, and I said that's pretty cool.   
   
 Q.   Obviously you want to win anywhere, but the win here would be pretty special considering you're a Nevadan?  
CHARLIE WI:   Yeah.   I had dinner with a friend of mine, Chris Flanner and his kids.   It's nice to come back and see friends you don't get to see very often.   So it's always nice to come back to a place where a lot of people are friends.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT