CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK HOSPITALS CLASSIC
November 9, 2012
Charlie Wi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CHARLIE WI:   There were a couple of shots that I would like to have back, but I'm pretty pleased with the round.  
   
 Q.   Yesterday was pretty simple, wasn't it?   It was a simple round of golf.   Today not so much.   This is a much more difficult golf course, I think.   The other golf course if you drive it straight, pretty straightforward.   If you find all of your tee balls, not a big deal.   Over here, though, you gotta hit it ‑‑ it played long, but was it nice playing earlier today?   Was it warmer today do you think than it's been earlier in the week?   
CHARLIE WI:   It wasn't too bad today actually.   We kept our sweater on for about four holes and then the sweaters were off.   
Looks like they're going to have a great afternoon.   Looks like the wind is calming down, so I think you're going to see some good scores this afternoon.  
   
 Q.   What are you going to work on for the weekend?  
CHARLIE WI:   Nothing.   Just going to keep doing the same thing over and over again.   
   
 Q.   Charlie, I love the way you play, I love your smile.   I love everything about what you do.   Keep it going, man.   You gotta win a golf tournament.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned yesterday playing the Palm you gotta take advantage of it.   
CHARLIE WI:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   I guess you take advantage of it so that you can have days ‑‑ not so you can have days like this, but so you can deal with days like this.   
CHARLIE WI:   Yeah, yeah, yeah.   Definitely Magnolia there's some really tough par‑3s and if you're not quite on, it's very easy to make bogey out there.   
I thought 1‑under par that's a pretty good score.   I shouldn't be upset about some things.   I did make some mistakes, but that's part of golf and I feel like I'm in position for the weekend and I'll just keep doing the same thing over and over.  
   
 Q.   When you start on the Palm and go to Magnolia, I think the top dozen scores were all Palm yesterday.   Do you run out fast and then Friday you kind of just watch to see where everybody else comes, they chase you the guys that started on Mag and switch today?  
CHARLIE WI:   You know, I started on No. 10 which is a reachable par‑5.   So I birdied that and kind of gets you in a good rhythm.   So I think starting on 10 was a big advantage for me where I reeled off a couple birdies right away, and felt like I kept my momentum going, but I made a couple of mistakes coming in.   So yeah, it's just a much tougher golf course.  
   
 Q.   Yeah.   And it's ‑‑ just in golf it's difficult, isn't it to take one really good round and then follow it up with another good round?  
CHARLIE WI:   Yeah, I don't know what that is, actually.   I didn't even think about that.   I wish I would have had a crack at Palm again today and see how it was.   Magnolia is a totally different golf course.   
Actually I slept well and didn't even think about what I shot yesterday.   1‑under, I'm pretty pleased.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT