NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 8, 2013
Matt Bonner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MATT BONNER:   Team concept.   Puts the team first.   We have each other's backs.   We do whatever we need off the court to be ready if our number is called.   And there's no egos.   It's all about winning.   
   
 Q.   How is Pop different from anybody else who has ever coached you?   
MATT BONNER:   Every coach is different.   I've played for some great coaches, and they're great in different ways.   Coach Pop is obviously one of those great coaches.   It's been an honor playing for him.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about your days in Messina.   It's a long time ago.   
MATT BONNER:   Yeah, I played my first year after graduating from the University of Florida, go Gators, in the Italian League for Messina, Sicily.   It was one of those experiences that makes you appreciate having the privilege of playing in the NBA.   You just take nothing for granted.   Over there it was‑‑ I think I only got two or three paychecks the whole year.   I had my electricity cut on my apartment twice.   Dealt with an eviction letter.   No Internet, no phone.   Just the kind of off‑the‑court adversity makes you realize how lucky you are when you have everything here.   
   
 Q.   Aren't you the kind of guy who would enjoy the cultural experiences and the food?   
MATT BONNER:   Absolutely.   Culturally, life experience‑wise I would never trade that year for anything.   You can't put a price tag on it.   It was amazing.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel at home here a little bit with all these Gator people around?   
MATT BONNER:   I've been getting "Go Gators!" everywhere.   Even people with Miami Heat jerseys walking down the street.   People yell at everyone else and they'll see me and wait for no one to look and say "Go Gators!"   
   
 Q.   That's got to make you feel pretty good, huh?   
MATT BONNER:   Yeah.   The whole spectrum.   Older Gators, younger Gators.   It seems like everyone‑‑ six degrees of separation, here it's like two or three degrees of Gator separation.   If the person didn't go there, one of their parents did or one of their siblings or sons or daughters.   Everybody has some connection, it seems like, to the University of Florida.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT