NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: GRIZZLIES v SPURS
May 23, 2013
Matt Bonner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What do you think about Tim and Tony getting the all‑NBA honors today?   
MATT BONNER:   Just happy for them, proud of them.   They've obviously done a great job for us all year and deserve those accolades.   
   
 Q.   Is there any sense of the history of‑‑ I don't imagine there's ever been a 36‑, 37‑year‑old man on the all‑NBA first team, just what an accomplishment that is at his age.   Is there a sense of that for you or among the guys?  
MATT BONNER:   Yeah, he hasn't slowed down a step it seems like.   His early‑on nickname "The Big Fundamental" has held true.   I think as you get older your fundamentals stay as your speed, quickness, vertical, athleticism dissipate.   He relies on a high basketball IQ, high skill level, fundamentals and a great leader.   It's awesome playing with him.   He doesn't seem to slow down.  
   
 Q.   What do you imagine Tim's vertical was at his peak?  
MATT BONNER:   I don't know, that's a good question.   I don't know, I'm going to ask him that.   
   
 Q.   Do you see any difference in some of the younger guys in their experience after going through this last year and being here again this year?   
MATT BONNER:   I think mentally we know we have to continue to stay focused.   We were up 2‑0 on Oklahoma City last year and in basically the same situation and lost four in a row, and Memphis is a team that's shown they can win four in a row.   They did it against Oklahoma City and against the Clippers after dropping the first two.   There's a long ways to go in this series.   They're a great team.   They play hard, play great defense, have a lot of depth, and we know we have our work cut out for us moving forward.  
   
 Q.   Does anybody even have to bring that up from last year, hey, you guys were up 2‑0?   I'm assuming Pop hasn't mentioned it at all.   
MATT BONNER:   Not really.   We were all here last year.  
   
 Q.   You remember?   
MATT BONNER:   That's the thing about this year's team.   We basically have the same team from last year, and hopefully that experience‑‑ we can learn from that experience.   It's a hard lesson to learn, but hopefully we can learn and be prepared mentally for what we need to do to advance and get to The Finals.   
   
 Q.   Did you tweak something in that game the other night?  
MATT BONNER:   I just got a knee to knee, so it was like one of those funny bone situations where for two minutes it kills and then once it goes away you're fine.  
   
 Q.   So it's fine now?  
MATT BONNER:   Yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT