CHICK-FIL-A PEACH BOWL: FLORIDA VS MICHIGAN
December 28, 2018
Gary Stokan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Good morning.  Welcome.   I'd like to introduce to you Gary Stokan, the CEO and president of the Chick-fil-A Peach Bowl.   
GARY STOKAN: I want to welcome our chairman, Bob Somers, who is in the back.  Wave to everybody, Bob.  Bob is our chairman of the Bowl and vice president of global sales for Delta.  Welcome, Bob.   
You have at your seats, we won't go through it, but there's a lot of milestones that we were able to achieve this year, kind of State of the Bowl address, so please take a look at that.   
Also, last, I want to thank our volunteers, the Hyatt for hosting us, and the best staff in the bowl business.  Matt's done a wonderful job this week, along with everybody on the team.   
Take advantage of their efforts and if you need anything, please communicate to them, and we'll take care of it.   
Today, I'm here to announce a special award that we're involved in.  In 2014, Peach Bowl, Inc., officially assumed management and presenting sponsorship and partnership of college football's most coveted college coach of the year award, the Dodd trophy.   
In 1976, the Dodd trophy was created and named for legendary Georgia Tech coach, Bobby Dodd.  There are three pillars that the award stands by.  Obviously, you have to win on the field.  But off the field is just as important, in the classroom, as well as what you do in the community.   
The three pillars are scholarship, leadership, and integrity.   
This year's recipient led the program -- led his program to an APR rating score of 966 and finished with the third-highest NCAA graduation success rate among all FBS programs.   
In the community, his foundation has donated nearly $3 1/2 million dollars to local, national, and global causes, including cancer research, disaster relief, boys and girls clubs, among others.   
On the football field, this year's winner currently shares the title for the winningest active coach in the FBS with 231 wins and also owns the ninth-best career winning percentage among all FBS coaches.   
Under his leadership, he's guided his team to a perfect, undefeated season, and his school's first ever college football playoff berth.  On behalf of the Chick-fil-A Peach Bowl and the Bobby Dodd Coach of the Year foundation, we're proud to honor Notre Dame coach Brian Kelly as the recipient of the 2018 Dodd trophy.  We'll celebrate the award at tomorrow's game on ESPN and in the spring time, we'll go on campus at Notre Dame and have an official banquet to let the Notre Dame family enjoy the success of their program, along with Coach Kelly.   
So thank you for that, and, again, have a great couple of days here in Atlanta.  We appreciate you being here.  Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT