NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BRUINS v BLACKHAWKS
June 11, 2013
Zdeno Chara
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Andrew Shaw said because of height difference between you two, you won't be able to see him, he'll be able to stay in front of net longer.   Your reaction? 
ZDENO CHARA:   I don't know how to really answer that.   Next question, I guess (smiling). 

Q.   How do you continue to maintain to have so much ice time?
ZDENO CHARA:   I've always been saying I'm always comfortable with whatever the coach decides to use me, how he approach different matchups. 
You know, I think we've been really good so far making it a little more easier with the way we play, the way we making changes and matchups.   But I'm just trying to help the team as much as I can. 
Some games obviously we had some where we had a few overtimes, maybe that's why the average is a little higher than previous playoffs. 

Q.   Can you talk about your relationship with Marian Hossa. 
ZDENO CHARA:   Yeah, we know each other for many years, from back home.   Obviously we cannot ignore that we know each other, we know the families.   But we all know that right now our jobs are play for our teams and compete and do whatever it takes to win games. 

Q.   Having not played Chicago this season, how do you prepare to play them now in Game1?
ZDENO CHARA:   I think the preparation is pretty much the same as always.   We know that we haven't faced them this season because of the schedule and shortened season.   But we have to prepare same way as we've been preparing for any team.   Just do as much as we can. 
Obviously I think once we start playing, we going to have better feel how we going to approach next games, next shifts, so on, so on. 

Q.   This is Marian's fourth final in six years.   Do you take pride in that achievement, coming from a small country? 
ZDENO CHARA:   Yeah, for sure in a way it's an accomplishment to be in the Finals.   We were obviously very happy for him when it happened for him for the third time.   I've been saying that for many years.   He's one of the best players in the league. 

Q.   What can you tell us about growing up together? 
ZDENO CHARA:   What do you want to know? 

Q.   What do you remember about him?
ZDENO CHARA:   I remember a lot of things.   I remember a lot of things.   What do you want to know?   Ask me specific question. 

Q.   Your friendship, how close are you?
ZDENO CHARA:   We pretty good friends.   We live really close to each other, knowing each other from very young age.   So, yeah. 

Q.   How often do you communicate during the season?
ZDENO CHARA:   Not that often.   Once in a while we call each other, text.   But not that often. 
Obviously, with the schedules we have, we play on different days, so sometimes it's hard. 

Q.   What kind of a neighbor is he? 
ZDENO CHARA:   Very good neighbor. 

Q.   When you're down in a series, how does experience help?
ZDENO CHARA:   We know it's so hard to even get to this point that you just got to do whatever it takes.   Every year is different. 
You can probably use some of it, but I'm sure you got to be preparing in a way that's almost like your first time. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
ZDENO CHARA:   There are some similarities from two years ago.   Most of our guys are still here from those two years ago.   We know what we can probably expect from each other. 

Q.   You said you have to prepare like normal for the Hawks.   Is there a line or player that you're really looking out for?
ZDENO CHARA:   I think you just have to be aware of every player who is on the ice, not just one specific player.   You're playing against five guys at the time on the ice.   You just got to be always aware of whoever is on the ice and try to do your best. 

Q.   What kind of challenge do they present?
ZDENO CHARA:   They're skilled, fast, a lot of depth on their team.   I'm sure it's going to be a challenge. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT