NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BRUINS v PENGUINS
May 31, 2013
Zdeno Chara
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   The lockout first, and you didn't play that many games, and then you played a whole bunch of games and then you sat around for two or three weeks; how much does that affect you?   
    ZDENO CHARA:   I don't think I was sitting around for two or three weeks.   
   
 Q.   But all that, you played a bunch of games and then sat around, does that have any sort of effect on you guys?   
    ZDENO CHARA:   Personally speaking, you know, I started the season in Europe and then obviously we started the season over here.   It was a busy schedule.   Then once the regular season was over, we started playing right away the playoffs.   This was probably the first time in a long time that we had probably four or five days without a game.   
   
 Q.   Is there a point, though, where that stopped‑‑ like the rest is good, but is there a point where that stops and you feel like maybe you're getting rusty?   
    ZDENO CHARA:   It depends how you use it.   I think it's not a bad thing to have a few days to rest to, get ready for the next round.   So depends how you use it.  
   
 Q.   Is there one thing that you absolutely need to do to slow down the Penguins offensively, and what would it be?  
    ZDENO CHARA:   I'm not talking about what the game plan is.   Sorry.   
   
 Q.   You've seen a lot in your career, what do you have to do against those two to keep them in check?   
    ZDENO CHARA:   Okay, what do you mean‑‑ who you mean? Who you mean?   You said "those two."   
   
 Q.   Crosby and‑‑  
    ZDENO CHARA:   Okay.   Be more specific.   
    You know, they are probably the best players in the game, there's no question about that.   So any time you can take space and time from any player, it's probably more difficult for them to do things.   So, for sure, we are going to try to do that.   
   
 Q.   Is it harder to go against‑‑ inaudible‑‑  
    ZDENO CHARA:   I think‑‑  
   
 Q.   ‑‑ is it more difficult‑‑  
    ZDENO CHARA:   Yeah, is he that good.   Yeah, it is hard to challenge him but it's possible.   
   
 Q.   Inaudible ‑‑ Crosby, is there anything that he does in particular?   
    ZDENO CHARA:   I think that they do everything pretty much, what you're looking for from the best players in the league.   They have speed, skill.   They can make plays.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT