NHL AWARDS CEREMONY
June 19, 2012
Zdeno Chara
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
ZDENO CHARA:   Yeah, I've been in this position a number of times.   It's great to be nominated, but it's even better if you win because you know how hard it is to get nominated.   
If you can win it, it's basically you finish the road and you go all the way.   Something maybe like if you made it to the finals, if you don't win, it's a big disappointment.   
On the other side, you are kind of happy that you made it all the way there.   Yeah, it would be really nice if this could be the year.   
   
 Q.   Are you preparing in the off‑season as though the season will start on time?  
ZDENO CHARA:   Yes.   I'm trying to be in my best shape as possible.   Towards the end of September, I'll see how it goes.   
Obviously, you can be kind of calculating.   You just have to be ready at that time when it comes and then we'll see what happens.   
   
 Q.   At this point do you have any thoughts on it?  
ZDENO CHARA:   I think it's still pretty early at this point to be kind of calculating if something is going to happen.   We'll wait and see.   
   
 Q.   What was your reaction when you heard Timmy's decision?  
ZDENO CHARA:   I think surprise, surprise like everybody else.   Obviously, he never mentioned anything to me or us as a team.   But that's his decision.   He has to probably deal with it.   
   
 Q.   Have you talked to him?  
ZDENO CHARA:   No, I haven't.   I've been busy right after the season.   I think the announcement of him possibly not be playing came out right after.   I was traveling again.   Went to Florida, spent some time with my family.   Really tried to stay away from hockey.   
I kind of sit back and relaxed and spent some time with my family.   
   
 Q.   Any thought to trying to convince him to come back?  
ZDENO CHARA:   Well, I think he's a mature person.   When he said something, probably he stands behind it.   If he change his mind, then he change his mind.   
But it's something that really you probably have to ask him, talk to him.   We have to be ready with or without him.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
ZDENO CHARA:   Yeah, we all know he's a really solid goalie.   He had really a great year.   He's played extremely well.   Last few years he's just been dealing with some injuries.   He didn't have that many chances to play.   
Now he's going to be getting the chance.   It's going to be totally up to him.   He's showed before that he can be our number one goalie.   Had a chance to play a few games last season.   He played really well.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
ZDENO CHARA:   Well, again, it's something that I have to think about.   For someone to be able to be at the meetings, you have to be really involved, more likely stay in North America to be able to attend those meetings, shorter distance.   
Right now my plans are going back to Europe and see if I'm going to be approached or asked to be involved more.   If so, then I'll make that decision.   
But I think it's always better to have players involved because those are the guys who represent obviously the 700‑plus players.   They know from their point of view what would make the game better.   
   
 Q.   Do you think this is going to get done?  
ZDENO CHARA:   I do believe it's going to get done.   But, you know, anything can happen.   Just like in any negotiation, it can be smooth, but also it can be really tough one.   
We will wait and see.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT