NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BRUINS v CANUCKS
May 31, 2011
Zdeno Chara
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Zdeno Chara.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 ZDENO CHARA: Obviously it's very challenging. We all know they are great players. They play a very skilled game. They know about each other even when they are not looking at each other. We just have to be ready.   
  
  Q. What's the key to beat them?   
 ZDENO CHARA: You just have to be able to, or try to, take away as much time and space from them as possible.   
  
  Q. It will be the first time in a Stanley Cup final that the captain will be from Europe. Any pride from that?   
 ZDENO CHARA: I think both of us are very proud of being where we are. It just happened that you have two teams with European captains.  
  
  Q. Do you feel you've been long enough that you have that style of leadership to win the Stanley Cup?   
 ZDENO CHARA: Well, it's something you have to be born with. I think it's something you have to have in you. It's not something you just learn. You learn on the way to be a captain. You also have to have some kind of instinct, be born with some kind of leadership skills. Obviously using some advices, things on the ways you learn.   
 I think most importantly you just have to be yourself.   
  
  Q. (Question regarding the power-play.)   
 ZDENO CHARA: Probably trying to have different looks, try different things. It's just one of the options we are able to use. So it's pretty much that, simple as that.   
  
  Q. Do you think it's an effective way, given your size?  
 ZDENO CHARA: Well, we just try, specifically against that goaltender, in that series, tried to have more traffic in front and create more traffic in front. We just had to use that in that series.   
  
  Q. You'll use the same strategy against Vancouver?  
 ZDENO CHARA: We could.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 ZDENO CHARA: It's nice the way to look at it, but obviously this is different. We know it's going to be tough. It's going to be a very close series. We know they have a good team. We just have to get ready and play the way we are capable of playing.   
  
  Q. Talk about trying to shut down the twins and the rest of the guys Vancouver has.   
 ZDENO CHARA: Yeah, I just said, it's going to be challenging. We know they're good players, very skilled players. Just have to be always aware of them, where they are on the ice, and play them very tight, try to take as much as we can away from them.   
  
  Q. Does it feel more like a reality now?  
 ZDENO CHARA: It feels normal to me. I mean, since day one in the playoffs, that's what you are playing for and going for. It's nice to be in the position we are at.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 ZDENO CHARA: They can say whatever they want. You cannot say that. We knew in the past it's been tough to swallow those losses in a Game 7. But obviously this is new year, we really take a lot of pride in those games, Game 7s. We just playing to win them.   
 You know, maybe in the past we were more hesitant, tried to be a little more patient. But now we know those are such crucial games, you just have to play to win them.   
   
    
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT