NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 22, 2009
Zdeno Chara
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


   DAVID KEON: Good afternoon, everyone. I'm David Keon of the National Hockey League's public relations department, and I would like to welcome you to today's call. With us we have the Boston Bruins captain, Zdeno Chara. Thanks to Zdeno for taking the time to join us and to answer your questions and thanks to Eric Tosi of the Bruins public relations staff for arranging the call.  
 In ten days Zdeno will take part in the NHL's annual outdoor game when the Boston Bruins host the Philadelphia Flyers at historic Fenway Park on New Year's Day in the 2010 NHL Bridgestone Winter Classic. In his 12th NHL season, Zdeno leads the Bruins in average ice time with 24 minutes and 35 seconds per game. He leads in shots with 97 and in blocked shots with 50. He is tied for the team lead in plus minus at plus nine, ranks second on the team and is tied for 13th among all NHL defensemen with 20 points on two goals and 18 assists.  
 A native of Trencín, Slovakia, he is the cornerstone of the Bruins defense that posted the least goals against per game last season and is fifth this season coming off last night's 2?0 shutout win over the Ottawa Senators. Thanks to Zdeno for taking the time to answer your questions. .  
  
  Q. With Tim Thomas playing so well, what are the differences in your preparation when one of those goaltenders or the other is about to get in the game?  
 ZDENO CHARA: My preparation for the games is the same no matter who is playing in the net. I think we all feel confident in both of our goalies. They are playing extremely well this season, and it's great to have two solid goaltenders playing behind you.  
  
  Q. Leading up to the Winter Classic, what's the mood in Boston and how are the fans reacting thus far?  
 ZDENO CHARA: Well, I think everybody is really excited, especially the fans and the whole organization. It's basically for most of us, a once?in?a?lifetime experience, and I'm sure it's going to be great.  
  
  Q. Just curious, if you look at you guys offensively, kind of been inconsistent, having trouble scoring goals; do you think maybe some help up front is something that should be targeted, would you like to see that?  
 ZDENO CHARA: It's been a little bit different this season from last season. We scored more goals last season than this season at this time I think.  
 But you know, I still believe that we have good enough players to put up the numbers. Obviously if the management feels that they need to add and improve our team, it's obviously up to them and it's their decision. But obviously it's up to us to perform and be more productive.  
  
  Q. What difference are you seeing this year? Why do you think the offense is having a hard time getting going?  
 ZDENO CHARA: I think that it's all around the league. I think that a lot of teams, it's now ?? basically, it's hard to score goals. Everybody is playing so well defensively, and it's just harder to score goals. A lot of the shots are getting blocked; goaltenders are playing extremely well. Overall, the game is really improving and it is hard to score goals.  
  
  Q. And last thing, before the Winter Classic, you guys have a couple of games against Atlanta. Just your thoughts on playing Kovalchuk and matching up against him?  
 ZDENO CHARA: I think we all know that Ilya is an extremely talented player with a lot of skill and a lot of speed in his game. He's a natural sniper and that's what he does, what he does best, scoring goals, and for sure, he's very dangerous. Any time you play against a guy like that, you have to be on your toes and be ready to play the game and try to take away the time and space from him.  
  
  Q. So far in the Winter Classic, there has not been a fight yet, and with the Flyers coming in there and with all of the guys on there that like to fight, and you have a few fighters on your team. Do you think this could be the first year where we see a fight in the Winter Classic?  
 ZDENO CHARA: I don't know. It could be. It all depends on how the game goes. For sure, both teams are well known for their physical play and just we'll see how the game goes.  
  
  Q. Do you think it's something that players might shy away from, since it's like a big event and on national TV; that it's something they might not want to do in a game like this?  
 ZDENO CHARA: I don't know. It's totally up to the players and obviously, like I said, you know, in different situations, the teams react differently. It's totally ?? I think that we all have to realize, it is an important game. I think it's a big event; everybody is going to be watching it, but at the same time, you are playing for two points. We'll see.  
  
  Q. Has it reached a point now to where you are looking ahead to this game and starting to get excited for it?  
 ZDENO CHARA: Yeah, it's coming closer and closer, that's for sure. But personally what I do, I'm just looking at the next game, what is ahead of us and which at this time it's tomorrow's game against Atlanta. I'm not thinking about the January 1 game yet.  
  
  Q. Just wanted to ask about your preparation for the Winter Classic game. Have you asked players that you know that have participated or will you rely on what you knew when you played outdoors when you were a kid?  
 ZDENO CHARA: Well, I think when I was a kid and playing outdoors, it's totally different. You just cruise around and you had a lot of fun with your neighborhood buddies. It was totally relaxed, and this is more business?wise.  
 For sure, it's going to be way more intense. With a 30,000, 40,000 audience, it's going to be a totally different atmosphere. But I'm going to prepare the same way I prepare for every game.  
  
  Q. Were you able to see previous games, watch them on television, and what's your thought of the whole concept of playing one game a year outdoors?  
 ZDENO CHARA: I had a chance to watch some of them. I don't think I watched the whole thing. I think it's great for the game. I think it's  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT