US OPEN
August 31, 2003
Jiri Novak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  Obviously, it took a lot of energy from you, but was it a good match?
 
JIRI NOVAK:  Yeah, definitely it was a great match for both of us, I think.  But, you know, I'm just disappointed because I lost 7-6 in the fifth set, you know.  And I was just fighting almost four hours.  Then it was just the question of the one point, you know.  That's terrible.  That's very bad feeling.  But what we can do, you know, that's the sport and it could happen, you know, to him as well. But, you know, from the beginning I just felt great on the court.  I just lost once my serve.  But I just turn around and I just lost in the tiebreak first set.  Then I was playing great tennis.  I think that the both of us was playing great tennis from the baseline.  I think that he was serving very huge.  His serve was big advantage for him today.  But it can happen. 
 
Q.  Just talk a little bit about the atmosphere out there on Grandstand.  Have you played under conditions like that?  How do you think it affected you and kind of pumped him up when he needed it the most?
 
JIRI NOVAK:  Yeah, I played in this atmosphere many times.  The atmosphere was great because the people were supporting both players.  You know, the only bad thing, because I never won the match on the Grandstand, you know.  I was playing always let's say the second, third or fourth round on the Grandstand and I am also losing, you know, so... So I just continuing, you know, this score. 
 
Q.  You've played on Grandstand before?
 
JIRI NOVAK:  Yeah.  I'm just saying that, you know, I played there so many times, but I was always losing on that court, you know. But the atmosphere was great.  I think that the atmosphere help us a lot.  I think that they made a great, small Grandstand court.  They just took it off the restaurant, and they just make the nice area for the people who were just eating there.  So the court was very, very nice.  
 
Q.  The fact that you went to a fifth-set breaker, the US Open is the only one that has a tiebreaker in the fifth set.  Talk a little bit about that and how different it is, to know it comes down to that one tiebreaker.
 
JIRI NOVAK:  I mean, we know from the beginning of the match there is a tiebreak in the fifth set.  I think that this is a good way to do it.  I think that if you are playing almost four hours in the court, you are just very happy that the match is finishing, you know.  And if you have to lose, it doesn't matter if it is gonna be the tiebreak or if you will lose the serve and you lose in different two games. So I agree.  I think that this is the good way, you know.  Sometimes on the Wimbledon days, the match is let's say 20 or 18 in the fifth set.  It's not really the tennis.  Also in the Australian Open it was Roddick, El Aynaoui playing I just remember it was five hours.  The players are almost dying on the court, you know.  It doesn't have nothing to do with the tennis already anymore. 
 
Q.  Talking about players dying in the fifth set, the last few games of the final set, was it down to fitness?  Do you think fitness had some role to play in it? 
 
JIRI NOVAK:  I mean, it's always a question of fitness, you know, because you are running a lot during the whole match.  But I felt great today.  I was fighting until the last point.  I think that Younes was doing the same way, you know.  I think that we been  -- I mean, physically ready for this match, very good.  
 
Q.  When you broke back at 4-all in the fifth set, was it that you played a great game or that he blew it?
 
JIRI NOVAK:  I think that I played a great game because I just made four really nice returns.  He didn't make mistakes.  I just killed I think two or three points.  Maybe he was making the  -- I mean, he did it maybe one mistake, but it wasn't a question of him.  But it was the question of me because I played I think that game great.  
 
Q.  Did you know at that point that the momentum was shifting your way?  Do you think at that point maybe you had control and you could win the match? 
 
JIRI NOVAK:  I mean, I was just trying to do it, you know.  But, I mean, I had the great chance when I was leading 5-4.  I had 30-15.  We played a great rally from the baseline.  I made a mistake from my backhand side.  There was this call 30-all.  It could be let's say 40-15 for me.  I was supposed to have two matchpoints.  So everything could be let's say little bit different, but it wasn't.  
 
Q.  What was your game plan going into the match?  You appeared to have found his backhand more than most other players.
 
JIRI NOVAK:  Definitely, I was just trying to attack his backhand.  I was going today very often to the net.  I think that we played also some great tennis from the baseline.  I was just trying to play my game, but I was just playing a little aggressive today.  
 
Q.  You both played a great match from the baseline, but you have quite opposite temper.  Younes likes to show some emotions with the racquet.  You're very quiet.  Are you always like that, very similar to Karol Kucera, for example?
 
JIRI NOVAK:  I'm trying to be like that, you know.  You should see on the court.  I'm not the kind of the person which is breaking let's say four or five racquets, like Younes was doing today.  He didn't get a warning, you know.  So it was pretty strange.  He was hitting let's say when was the point finish, he was let's say hitting the balls, you know, to the fence and hitting the balls to the ball boys and something like that. I don't care.  I'm just trying to be myself.  I'm just trying to keep concentration for my game.  That's my personally. 
 
Q.  For what part of your game are you most dissatisfied today?  What was the difference? 
 
JIRI NOVAK:  What was the difference, he was maybe little bit lucky, maybe little bit better.  I am pretty disappointed.  I was fighting almost for the four or five hours.  I'm just here for the US Open.  I was just ready today let's say for some great result.  I was in the third round, so it can happen.  I can be disappointed.   
 
Q.  There's been a big fuss about Roddick's behavior on the court.  If Younes does similar things, he doesn't seem to get under people's skin the same way.  Is there a different attitude toward him?  Is there real exuberance from him?
 
JIRI NOVAK:  I mean, I don't care what he is doing, you know.  I'm just, how I said, I'm just try to be myself.  If this is doing Younes, it can happen to the other players, you know.  They are just trying to do something with the crowd and something with the people. But it can be just the help for that game, but I don't care.  
 
Q.  Who is your closest friend on the tour except Radek Stepanek, somebody else from other countries? 
 
JIRI NOVAK:  I think all the Czech players, you know, because we are let's say living all the times together.  You've got plenty of doubles players.  I mean, I think that I'm very good from let''s say  -- it's tough to say. But I don't have a problem with anybody, you know.  But I cannot say if I will say that somebody is let's say a better friend.  I prefer to stay with the Czech people, the Czech players.  We are the group together.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT