DAVIS CUP - CZECH REPUBLIC vs USA
April 7, 2000
Jiri Novak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 USTA: Questions for Jiri? 
 
Q. Congratulations. Do you feel that if you hadn't saved those breakpoints the first
two times, it would have been an entirely different match?
 
 JIRI NOVAK: I think so. It was the most important thing in the match because I start
believing. Pete had maybe ten breakpoints in the first set, especially in the second to
three games. I think really it was the most important point for the match. I stayed in the
match and then we played the tiebreak, and in the tiebreak I think I was much better
because I was making maybe four or five, I won the tiebreak 7-1 or 7-2. And I think the
first set was the most important. 
 
Q. Jiri, is this the best you have ever played?
 
 JIRI NOVAK: It's tough to say, you know, but I think this is one of my best results.
But what about a game, you know, it's tough to say because I was playing against the
player which is playing the serve-and-volley, he is playing very aggressive tennis, you
know. I was playing better match of players, let's say the Spanish players, that are
playing from the baseline. We are hitting a lot of balls. But I think one of the best
ones. 
 
Q. Do you recall that match at Flushing Meadows? It went five sets. He didn't remember
a thing about it. He may remember this, I don't know. But do you recall that match? You
came close to winning it, didn't you?
 
 JIRI NOVAK: Yeah. Maybe he don't, but I always remember the match because it was also
an incredible match for me. I was 19, 20 years old, playing against the No. 1 player in
Flushing Meadows, at Center Court. It was amazing for me. I was playing five sets, and I
was remembering this match and I was trying to play the same game like four years ago,
but, you know... I think it was pretty good match for me. 
 
Q. Jiri, at what point during the match did you believe seriously that you could beat
Sampras?
 
 JIRI NOVAK: Maybe when I was up 2-Love in the sets, you know, then I made -- he was
serving, when was the score, 0-0, I made a break. Then I was staying with my serve and I
did it for the 2-Love. Then I was believing that I can win the match. But I was just
trying to concentrate for my game, you know, because this is one of the best players in
the world and you never know, there just may be one, two points and can match -- just turn
around, you know. So... 
 
Q. Were you surprised he never seemed to make much of a charge?
 
 JIRI NOVAK: I don't know if I'm surprised, but I think that I was playing very good
today. I was very good returning; I was hitting the ball very hard. I was playing just
from the baseline, and I was serving very well because I didn't lose a serve, you know. 
 
Q. Whom do you have with you from the Czech Republic? Do you have some family and
friends here? How many people have travelled with the team?
 
 JIRI NOVAK: Not family here, but I have a lot of friends that came from my home city
and a lot of friends that live in the United States. We had a very nice support here. I
don't know, maybe 50, maybe 100 people was supporting me. So... But the team is maybe like
10, 15 people. 
 
Q. Do you think they're dancing in the streets in Prague as a result of your win?
 
 JIRI NOVAK: No, I don't think so because there's maybe midnight. (Laughter.) 
 
Q. Jiri, were you trying to use Sampras' serve-and-volley technique against him with
all the passing shots you had, particularly the backhands, the winning backhands you had?
 
 JIRI NOVAK: If I play against Sampras would I -- 
 
Q. No, if you were using Sampras' serve-and-volley attack against him with all the
passing shots you had, you were scoring off of?
 
 JIRI NOVAK: You know, I was very good returning and he was little bit changing his
game, changing his tactic in the beginning of the third set. After service, he was staying
in the baseline, and then I thought, "This is very good advantage for me," you
know, because he kills the balls very, very fast. We can play rarely from the baseline. 
 
Q. Did you think you won basically because of your terrific passing shots? Was that the
key to your victory?
 
 JIRI NOVAK: Yeah, I think so. 
 
Q. Usually he dominates with his serve. Did you have a lot of problems with his serve
today, or did you read the ball pretty well?
 
 JIRI NOVAK: Yeah, I think so, because in the match, wasn't so many breakpoints. I had
maybe five, six breakpoints and I did it always when I had the breakpoint. And very
important for me was that he was playing a lot of second serves, you know, because he had
the first serve and the first serve was very difficult for me to catch it. So...  
 
Q. Were you surprised how much he served your forehand in the deuce court?
 
 JIRI NOVAK: Yeah, he was serving good. 
 
Q. Did that surprise you?
 
 JIRI NOVAK: I don't know because I know him and I knew that he serving like this, you
know. So this is the best show in the Pete Sampras serve. 
 
Q. How did you feel when John McEnroe kept saying they should win all the matches? Did
it inspire you guys at all?
 
 JIRI NOVAK: I feel very good. We made the first point. I think this is big surprise for
us and especially for the US Team because they thought after Saturday the match would be
over. But our captain said we would be very happy if we would play on the Sunday, the
best-of-five sets. So we are very happy with the first point. 
 
Q. Jiri, did Sampras seem a little bit slow to you? He didn't seem to be moving that
well.
 
 JIRI NOVAK: I don't think that he was moving very slow, but, you know, he was trying to
play his game, serve-and-volley. From the baseline, I was today much better I think. 
 
Q. Jiri, did you feel, particularly in the third set, that Sampras may have just lost
it mentally; that maybe his mind was not on the match in the third set?
 
 JIRI NOVAK: I was just trying to keep the concentration for the game and just keep the
concentration for winning the match, you know. It was much important for me, and I was
playing just my game. And how I said, he little bit change the tactic because he wasn't
playing serve-and-volley all the time in the third set. It was good for my return. I made
a return, I played a lot of forehands from the baseline. 
 
Q. When you play a team with the No. 1 and No. 2 ranked player in the world and the No.
1 doubles player in the world, how do you get yourself ready for that?
 
 JIRI NOVAK: I feel pretty comfortable because I beat the player -- the former No. 1
player, and maybe the best player in the history. So I think that the match is still open.
We are leading 1-Love and I think that now we're starting another match against Andre
Agassi, and Slava doesn't have nothing to lose. He can play without the pressure, and
maybe tomorrow win the doubles. So you never know. This is just sport. 
 
Q. I just meant beforehand, even before today?
 
 JIRI NOVAK: About his forehand? 
 
Q. No, no. Before the match, the last few days.
 
 JIRI NOVAK: Before the match, I felt that also I don't have nothing to lose. I can play
without the pressure, and I was just trying to play my game. But on the surface, which is
very favorite for Pete, it's amazing for me to beat him.  
 
Q. Jiri, did you find it easy to play his backhand, to play Pete's backhand today?
 
 JIRI NOVAK: Yeah, it was one of my tactic, to play a lot of balls to his backhand
because I thought I have to hit balls to his backhand because then I can make a lot of
points. But I was trying also to play some points to the forehand because he was expecting
that I will play a lot of balls to the backhand. So I was just playing the rally. I was
playing the right, then the backhand so... 
 
Q. Your record in Davis Cup is far superior to what it is in other matches. What is it
about these Davis Cup matches that seem to inspire you like this?
 
 JIRI NOVAK: You know, for me, the Davis Cup is special event because this is -- tennis
is individual sport and we are just playing for ourselves and just for the families. But
when we are playing the team matches like a Davis Cup or team matches in the clubs, you
know, there's a special feeling because you are playing for the people that support you
and for the people in the city or the country. So we are playing for everybody, and that's
such a nice feeling for us. 
 
Q. In the early stages of the match, when you were hitting passing shots, did it
suddenly come over you as it even does for hackers like me, "Boy, I've really got it
today, I've got the touch"? Was there a feeling like that?
 
 JIRI NOVAK: Yeah, I think so because I was really playing very nice shots. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT