US OPEN
September 5, 1999
Jiri Novak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. He retires two points in the end of the match, is it an insult? 
 
 JIRI NOVAK: I think this is not normal, you know, because maybe I was waiting a whole
match for this moment because I knew that he was playing very difficult match two days
against Gambill. And Gambill retired; the score was 4-0 in the fifth set. So I heard that
he retired yesterday from the doubles, and I didn't know what happened, you know. So I was
just waiting, what will happen in this match, you know? So I was just keep for that match,
and I was just playing my game. He was just trying to play the serve and volley, and I
return the volley, so he was just trying to kill the points very fast. But I think he was
moving pretty good, you know. So I don't think he had the problem with the leg. I don't
know if he was injured, but I don't know why he retired just two points away from the
match.  
 
Q. What was going through your head when he said that he was going to retire? Were you
shocked? What were you thinking?
 
 JIRI NOVAK: You know, it's always pretty difficult to play because you see on the other
side of player, just playing just the match very easy, and he is just trying to kill some
points, and he is smiling all the time, you know. So it's very difficult to play against
those players, but I was just concentrate for my game, and I was playing my good game.  
 
Q. It's sort of like saying you can't beat me; I quit. Seems like if you're going to,
you know, play at least three sets, two points, what, finish it up, let the winner have
the glory of winning. 
 
 JIRI NOVAK: I don't know answer, you know. I don't know why he did just two points away
from the match.  
 
Q. Does it make you mad?
 
 JIRI NOVAK: I think that he could do it off the first set, you know, because I won 6-1
and it was so easy for me. Then I won 6-Love, so I was just waiting for that moment. But
it's up to him, you know, maybe just trying to play and was very difficult to do. What was
the score, 6-1, 6-0 with me, because it start a little bit of rain. So I was just little
bit scared, you know. I said, "Oh, my God, cannot start to rain because I don't want
to play tomorrow the rest of the match, you know." So I was lucky with the weather,
and it was good.  
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT