U.S. OPEN
August 30, 1996
Jiri Novak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Did you get a little tight, Jiri, with the two double-faults there?
 
JIRI NOVAK:  It was very difficult moment in the match because I had 15-Love down and I think I make the ace, the serve was good, and I lost the concentration, then I make the two double-faults.  But then I had a little bit chance.  Two balls, then very good ball, and he break me. 
 

Q.  Was that the moment of the match, though, where it got away?
 
JIRI NOVAK:  I think it was the most important moment in the match. 
 

Q.  Were you surprised?  You hit a very beautiful lob on match point, were you surprised that he got it?
 
JIRI NOVAK:  I know it was a very good ball, but he play very good from the lob.  I have a smash.  I don't know what I can say.  I was a little bit nervous because it was maybe the last point in the match.  I made a very easy mistake from the forehand.  
 

Q.  Is this a case of you playing very well and him not playing that well?  What was it like out there?
 
JIRI NOVAK:  I think it was very good match for me because I play first time against the player which is No. 1 in the world, first time on the Grand Slam tournament I played on the center court.  I think it was the best atmosphere and the best match in my life for me. 
 

Q.  Was there a point where you thought about winning this one?
 
JIRI NOVAK:  Excuse me? 
 

Q.  Did you ever think you were going to win this one in the fifth set, beginning of the fifth?
 
JIRI NOVAK:  Yeah (laughter). 
 

Q.  You were not intimidated or anything by playing Sampras, the defending champion, all that stuff out there?
 
JIRI NOVAK:  It was my first match against Pete Sampras.  I think it's a bit different than when I play Sampras on a normal tournament than in a Grand Slam tournament, because he has the big advantage.  I play first in my life on that center court.  There was a very big atmosphere, very good match.  I'm very happy that I could play with him in five sets because I have nothing to lose. I was playing very well. 
 

Q.  Which part of Pete's game did you find the most difficult? 
 
JIRI NOVAK:  I think -- I know he's the best player in the world at this moment because he is No. 1.  He's playing on every surface and he has very big serve, playing from the baseline very good, playing also very good volleys.  He is a very difficult play against him. 
 

Q.  How would you describe what the atmosphere was like?
 
JIRI NOVAK:  Excuse me? 
 

Q.  You said you liked the atmosphere.  How would you describe what it was like out there?
 
JIRI NOVAK:  I like this atmosphere because -- I don't know what I can say.  When I'm on that center court and there is, I don't know, 15,000 people, I don't know what I can say. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT