TMS - MADRID
October 20, 2002
Jiri Novak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 

Q.  When did you know for sure you aren't able to play?  

JIRI NOVAK:  It was like two or three hours before the match, because I just came here and I was visiting the doctor, and we've been discussing already yesterday evening after the match because the problem happened to me already yesterday during the match against Santoro.  We just decide today that I'm not able to play. 

Q.  When did it happen during the match exactly? 

JIRI NOVAK:  I don't know exactly what was the score, but I had a tough ball, and I was just trying to hit the ball.  I just felt in my leg a pain, you know.  But, you know, my body was warm, so I didn't feel any big pain.  After the rest was the pain much bigger and bigger. 

Q.  Obviously you must be devastated. 

JIRI NOVAK:  Yeah, definitely.  I didn't know yesterday after the match that the problem was going to be that big, you know.  I'm very disappointed because this is my first Super Masters Series experience.  I couldn't play, especially here in Madrid, for the first time in a final against Andre Agassi, so I'm very disappointed.  But that's sport, that's the tennis life.  It can sometimes happen. 

Q.  Do you know exactly what you have and how long it will take for you to recover?

JIRI NOVAK:  I don't know exactly right now, you know, how long it's going to be take.  You know, the doctor say that I need the rest for the couple of days, then we will see. 

Q.  So you still hope to play next week?

JIRI NOVAK:  No, no, no.  I already pulled out from the St.  Petersburg.  I hope to be ready for Paris, but I'm not sure right now. 

Q.  Is it the first time you have had such an injury?  Have you had another injury like this in the past?

JIRI NOVAK:  You know, it didn't happen to me that very often.  This is maybe for the second or third time when I'm pull out from the tournament.  This is for the first time it happen to me, let's say, during the tournament, an injury like this. 

Q.  What was going through your mind last night when you felt you would have to withdraw from such an important match and final?

JIRI NOVAK:  I was getting for sure a little bit scared because I didn't know what the problem is.  But, you know, I slept pretty well.  I was just, you know, trying to stay concentrate for the match.  Just came here in the morning.  I was just discussing with the doctor. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT