TMS - MADRID
October 19, 2002
Jiri Novak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  With Agassi, your record against him is 4-0.  What do you expect in the final match tomorrow? 

JIRI NOVAK:  You know, it's the first final for me on the Super Masters Series tournament.  I will play the final against Andre Agassi.  I know he is very tough to beat, especially for me because I had four meetings with him and I never won a set.  In this case, I don't have nothing to lose because, you know  - how will I say it - I never won a set.  This is amazing for me to play the final on this event like this.  I don't know exactly right now what I have to do, what I have to play tomorrow.  But I will just try to fight for every ball, and I will just try to beat him. 

Q.  What did you think of Santoro today? 

JIRI NOVAK:  It was a little bit of a surprise for me that I, yesterday evening, came to the hotel and saw the result, that Federer lost against Santoro.  It was a big surprise for me.  I was a little bit, let's say, happier and luckier.  I didn't want to play to Federer because he beat me last week in Vienna.  I was just expecting the tough match.  Against Santoro, I was pretty scared, as well, but not as much as like against Federer.  I lost to Santoro this year in Dubai 7-6 in the third set.  But definitely I felt very good today.  I was hitting the balls very hard, very fast, and I was moving very fast.  I think that I was playing the best tennis during this week. 

Q.  Are you still coached by Jan Kukal? 

JIRI NOVAK:  Yes. 

Q.  But he's not here?

JIRI NOVAK:  He's not here. 

Q.  Your wife is here?

JIRI NOVAK:  Yes. 

Q.  Which is your favorite football team?

JIRI NOVAK:  Zlin.  Yeah, Zlin from my city where I was born.  They are playing the second division in Czech Republic.  I know you want to hear Real Madrid because we are in Madrid.  You know, I'm just watching the football like a fan.  I'm not supporting any teams.  I'm just trying to watch the best football. 

Q.  Apart from gaining a lot of points from this victory and being now in the final, your position in the Masters Cup is still not decided; a lot of you are fighting for these points.  How do you see that?

JIRI NOVAK:  Yeah, it's tough to say.  I'm a little bit in front of the guys which are on the spot 7 or 8, but I know that we got still two tournaments to go.  I know all these players will fight very hard to reach the Tennis Masters.  I have a little advantage because I'm a little bit in front of them.  I will do everything what I can do, you know, to reach the Tennis Masters in this moment. 

Q.  You've been on the tour a long time now.  Back in January, how surprised would you have been to find yourself in this position in October: fifth, in a Masters Series final?  Did you expect anything like that?

JIRI NOVAK:  No, definitely not.  I'm just living my dream, you know.  This is so exciting because in the beginning of the year I was, let's say, the No.  30, 35 in the world.  I didn't expect in the end of the year I'd be in the Top 10 and I will have a chance, you know, to reach the Tennis Masters Cup.  This is just amazing for me. 

Q.  You had been losing six semifinals in a row, then in Vienna you had this victory, reaching the finals.  How did you feel about that?

JIRI NOVAK:  I felt great because I reached the second final in a row, especially this year because I lost six times in the semifinals.  I just broke something in my mind, you know, last week.  I was always losing in the semifinal, and I reach the final.  It was much easier to think about this, you know, today because I knew that I can do it.  I was just trying to do it again. 

Q.  What will be your strategy against Agassi?  The fact that he's getting so much support from the Spanish public, is that going to maybe make you lose focus?

JIRI NOVAK:  I have to say that I don't care what the crowd is going to do tomorrow, you know, because I was playing in the first round against Robredo and everything was against me; second round, Moya, everybody was against me.  It's going to be the same problem tomorrow because I will be playing against Agassi.  I think everybody wanted, you know, to win this event for Andre Agassi.  I don't care anything about the crowd.  It's tough to say what is going to be the strategy for the tomorrow.  I said a couple minutes ago that I never won the set, you know.  We got a similar game.  We are playing both of us from the baseline.  He is playing better in this position.  I think I have to fight, first of all, then I will see what's going to happen tomorrow. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT