DAVIS CUP - CZECH REPUBLIC vs USA
April 9, 2000
Jiri Novak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







USTA: Questions for Jiri.

Q. Jiri, did he wear you out physically towards the end? He was moving really well.

JIRI NOVAK: I didn't hear you. What?

Q. Did he wear you down physically towards the end of the match? Were you tired at all?

JIRI NOVAK: Yeah, I think I was getting pretty tired but he was playing unbelievable
tennis today and I didn't get a chance to make one set. It was the big rally from the
beginning. From the beginning of the match we were playing, I think, very nice tennis. We
were playing a lot from the baseline. I was just getting tired and tired.

Q. How did your victory over Sampras on Friday motivate your performance for today?

JIRI NOVAK: Yeah, I had very good motivation, you know, because I beat No. 2 or No. 3
player in the world right now. And I had very nice confidence for this match, especially
after the doubles yesterday. But Andre was playing very different game, you know. He was
playing from the baseline; not like Pete on Friday, he was playing serve-and-volley. This
is completely different game, and he was much better today than me.

Q. If you were hitting from the baseline with him, which is really difficult if you're
tired, did you consider coming into the net more today?

JIRI NOVAK: Yeah, I was trying to do that, but there wasn't the chance, you know,
because he was playing so fast and the ball was from him very long, very close to the
baseline, so I didn't get a chance to play, let's say, many balls from the net.

Q. Jiri, you played fantastic tennis this weekend. How will you carry that momentum on
to the regular Tour schedule?

JIRI NOVAK: I think I can take some confidence, you know, from this week to the ATP
Tour tournaments, because I was playing really great tennis this week. I didn't expect
that I could make two points against the US Team, so I've got the big confidence and I
hope that I will take this confidence for the other tournaments on the claycourts.

Q. What tips did you give Slava for playing against Pete?

JIRI NOVAK: I said to him he must play the game like me on Friday, you know.
(Laughter.)

Q. At what point did you get tired today in your match with Andre?

JIRI NOVAK: The tired?

Q. Yes. When did you get tired?

JIRI NOVAK: It's tough to say, but Andre was much better than me from the beginning of
the match, you know. So it's tough to say which moment was very important. I think every
point, because I was running, you know, all the time, to the right and then to the left.
Then I was just getting tired. Maybe after first and second set, you know.

Q. Do you think you might have done better had you not played doubles yesterday, had
you let Damm or someone else play doubles?

JIRI NOVAK: No, I don't think so. I think that Andre was supposed to win today anyway,
you know, so I'm very happy that I made the second point yesterday. I was playing doubles
and I was just trying to play my best tennis today.

Q. Was there a crucial stage at the game, fifth game of the second set, 2-all, 40-15,
you made four errors. Do you feel the match left you at that stage?

JIRI NOVAK: He made the four errors?

Q. You did. From 40-15, then he broke you.

JIRI NOVAK: Yeah, I was under big pressure, you know, he was playing very, very fast.
And I was just major defense and I made maybe three, four errors, but I didn't won it.

Q. Do you think you're naturally more comfortable against serve-and-volleyers?

JIRI NOVAK: No, I don't think so, but this is special kind of player, Andre Agassi.
He's really killing the balls very fast from the baseline. I was playing against Alex
Corretja last week in Key Biscayne, he was playing also from the baseline. But this is a
special kind of players, you know.

Q. Were you pretty shocked by Andre's serve, 12 aces?

JIRI NOVAK: Yeah, he was playing very well and especially serving. He was making a lot
of points from the first and second serve.

Q. Regardless of what happens in this next match, what does it mean to the team to push
the tie this far?

JIRI NOVAK: You know, I think that Slava have nothing to lose. He can play without the
pressure, I said already many times. We are very happy that we had the score 2-0 right now
and we are playing the fifth match for the victory, you know.

Q. How much better does Andre return than Pete?

JIRI NOVAK: I think much better. But I said to Czech News that when I was playing the
first serve, I had serve from much faster back, you know, in my legs in the baseline. So
maybe was better to play just for the percentage because they said that I didn't make a
lot of the first services, you know. So...

Q. Do you think Slava can beat Pete?

JIRI NOVAK: You never know. I think that they've got very nice chance.

Q. In this match, I think you had to expect it if you involved yourself in a lot of
long rallies, considering what you'd gone through in the previous two days, you were going
to get tired. Why didn't you do more to shorten the points?

JIRI NOVAK: I was just playing my game. It's tough to change completely my game when
I'm just playing the tennis from the baseline, and I think that Andre's too good, also, if
I will play the serve-and-volley because my serve is not so good like let's say Pete's or
Rusedski or Philippoussis. I think I can just play from the baseline.

Q. On a personal level, you've done very well this weekend. Do you think this could be
the springboard to the best period of your career?

JIRI NOVAK: Yeah, I think so. Because I think that I can play right now with the top
players. I beat Sampras, we beat in the doubles O'Brien-Palmer. I think it's a very good
experience for me and very good confidence for the next -- my tennis life.

Q. Off the court, what has been the best part of coming to LA and southern California?

JIRI NOVAK: You know, I didn't see it much, but we just arrive from Sunday and we visit
the Lakers, Lakers team was playing. And we were all the time in the stadium, we were
practicing a lot. We were practicing maybe three, four hours per day, and then we were
just coming back to the hotel around six or seven o'clock in the evening. We just had
dinner. Everything was just concentration for the game. But I think that it was very good
for us. This is very good experience for us, and we were really enjoy it.

Q. Would you like to come back to LA some time?

JIRI NOVAK: Yeah, sure, because it was my first visit in LA. I was just many times at
the airport when I was travelling to Palm Springs or somewhere else, but I would like to
visit some Hollywood and some parts of LA.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT