SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2009
Don Pooley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Does this round get you right back in the mix?  
 DON POOLEY: I hope. It's hard to shoot a low score out here. There's a lot of trouble if you make any mistakes at all. It's just a very demanding golf course. It's a great course. I like it a lot. Very fair, but very tough.  
  
  Q. 68 ties for the low round today and you've improved each day. Today you were 2-under through your last four. You got to have a pretty good feeling heading into Sunday?  
 DON POOLEY: I do. I'm hitting the ball better and I made all the short putts today. Just the 5-footer and in putts that I missed the first day and -- but it was fun to make them all today. It sure helps the score.   
  
  Q. The margin for error here is so small, tomorrow, if you get to that position on the back nine where you need a birdie or two, do you dare to be aggressive or is that asking for trouble?  
 DON POOLEY: Oh, absolutely, you got to go for it. You don't get that many chances to win a PGA Championship.   
 If you have a chance on the back nine, you need to do what you can to get in there.   
  
  Q. Do you feel like --  
 DON POOLEY: I hope I have a chance.   
  
  Q. You wait 14 holes for a par-5 and then you got two in a row. Do you feel like tomorrow you'll have some guys going after it if they need those birdies?  
 DON POOLEY: I think you always go off that one, 15 is reachable. 16 I don't think is. They have got all the rough going up the hill, I don't think anybody can fly it on there.   
 I thought about going for it today, but I would have been just somewhere up on the rough and so I laid back and made birdie that way.   
 But I hit the green on 15 in two and, sure, if you hit a good drive there, you're going for it there for sure.   
  
  Q. You made mention of making all your reasonable five footers and all that, are any of those more important than others? A couple of those for par?  
 DON POOLEY: A bunch of them were for par. They were birdie putts and par putts and bogey putts that I made from two feet to five feet that are missable out here. So it was good to make all those little ones.   
  
  Q. Has that been the difference from your first round to today?  
 DON POOLEY: Absolutely. The first round I hit a fewer errant shots, but the putting was definitely the difference. I made most of them yesterday and the short ones, I didn't miss very many yesterday. I didn't miss any short ones today.  
  
  Q. Is it hard to get a feel for the greens out here?  
 DON POOLEY: Yeah, it wasn't that I didn't know the roll on the first day, I just didn't hit the line I was trying to hit the first day. But I've been hitting the line the last couple and it's a lot more fun.   
  
  Q. Would you go over your birdies today?  
 DON POOLEY: I birdied number 7. I hit a 7-iron in there about five feet. One of those good five footers I made.   
 I bogeyed 8.   
 I birdied 11. Hit another 7-iron in there about three feet. Another good 3-footer. One of those putts that you got to play outside the hole to make.   
 I bogeyed 14 with a series of bad shots there. Deserved a bogey for sure.   
 Then I birdied the two par-5s.   
 I 2-putted 15.  
  
  Q. From how far?   
 DON POOLEY: I was pin high on the right fringe and knocked it about five feet by and made another good 5-footer.   
 Then 16, I hit a little 40 yard wedge up there about four feet and made that one. So very pleased with making all those little putts.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT