FORD SENIOR PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
July 9, 2005
Don Pooley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Don, maybe just get us started.  7 under today.  Other than the little blip at 18, you're right now tied for the lead.  There's a four way tie at 10 under.  Talk about your day.
DON POOLEY:  I hit the ball very solid today.  The difference between today and the other two days is I made some putts today.  That always helps, obviously.

Really, played pretty well all three days, this day more so than the others as far as hitting good shots, solid shots, good drives, and of course some putts.

Really the 1st and the 18th holes are the only holes I can remember having any trouble on.  I misjudged my iron into the green on 1, flew it over the green.  I was kind of looking at a 6.  Way over the green on 1.  Hit a pretty decent chip to get it on the fringe, chipped that in for par.  That's how I started the day.
THE MODERATOR:  How far was the chip?
DON POOLEY:  About 25 feet probably.

Kind of let one get away on No. 3.  Hit a drive in the bunker, had to lay up.  Didn't birdie 3, which is kind of a bad par.  But after that I played pretty flawless.  Had to make a little putt on 4.  I did birdie 5, didn't I?
THE MODERATOR:  Yes.  5, 6, 7 and 9.
DON POOLEY:  5, how far was I?  I made about an 18 footer on 5.  Made about a 6 footer on 6.  I 2 putted 7 for birdie.
THE MODERATOR:  How far?
DON POOLEY:  My eagle putt was about 35 feet.

Then I made about an 8 footer on 9 for birdie.  Made a 4 footer on 10 for birdie.
THE MODERATOR:  Can you remember what you hit?
DON POOLEY:  On 9 I hit an 8 iron.  10 I hit a sand wedge.  Sand wedge on 6.  8 iron on 5.  3 wood on the green on 7.
THE MODERATOR:  13?
DON POOLEY:  Birdie 13.  Hit it pin high, chipped up about six feet, seven feet, made that for birdie.

Had a makable one on 14 that I didn't make.

Then 15, I made about a 25 , 30 footer there.  Hit a 5 iron in there on 15.

16, I had a makable putt that I misread.

17, I went for the green.  I was in perfect shape in two.  It's not a good green to go for in two normally.  I figured I'm never going to have a better chance than right here.  I had perfect yardage.  I had 225 on an up slope.  It was a 5 wood shot.  Thought, "I got to go for this."  I sent the 5 wood straight up in the air.  It went just over the green.  Pretty risky shot.  Tough chip from there.  I was in kind of a funny lie.  I chipped it about 10 feet short, but I made the putt for birdie on 17.

18, I hit some good shots to make bogey.  I hit a real good 3 wood off the tee.  Driver I felt like would go too far into the hazard.  I laid up with a 3 wood, hit right where I wanted to.  That big tree to the right was blocking me out.  Had to hit a low shot under the tree.  Solid, but just kind of went too far.  Had some fluffy lie on the right of the green on 18 about pin high.  Hit a decent shot out of there about, oh, eight, 10 feet.  Misread that.  Hit a good putt, but missed it.

Unfortunate to end with a bogey, but I made some good shots to even make bogey.  Pretty happy with that.
Q.  It's changing on a minute by minute basis.  At the moment, there are 11 people within one shot of the lead.  Where do you expect to be going into tomorrow?
DON POOLEY:  I'm just hoping to be within two or three shots.  That would be terrific.  Then another round like this, I've got a chance to win it.  That's all I was hoping for.  I was so far back starting the day.  I was eight shots behind the lead starting the day, so I was hoping just to make up part of the ground.  I really made up most of the ground, at least to this point.  You don't know how it's going to end up.

I think I'm going to be in good shape for tomorrow.
Q.  Are you surprised at all by how many players have a shot at winning this title?
DON POOLEY:  No, not really.  It's getting so competitive out here now.  Just about everybody in the field could win this tournament, I mean, starting the week.  No, I'm not surprised.  To have that many that close is unusual.  It's not surprising all the people that are up there that have a chance.  Make for an exciting day.
THE MODERATOR:  Thanks, Don.
DON POOLEY:  You bet.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT