U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 29, 2004
Don Pooley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  We're now joined by Don Pooley.  If you could start us off by running through the bogeys on your card, please?
 DON POOLEY:  I birdied 11 and 12.  Do you want me to talk about that boring stuff, huh?  I started on 10 -- actually I played well all day.  I hit two bad shots and made bogeys on both of those holes.

I had birdie putts on 16 of the holes and made five of them.

I birdied 11.  I hit a 7-iron -- no, a 9-iron, yeah, 9-iron on 11 about 12 feet.

I birdied 12.  I'm trying to remember the holes.  I hit an 8-iron in there about 25 feet.

I hit a bad drive on 18 and made bogey.

I hit a 7-iron into 1 about six feet and made that for birdie.

I hit a 5-iron into 5 about 20 feet and made that for birdie.

I hit it stiff on 7 with a 7-iron about a foot away, maybe two.  That was my birdies.

I had a lot of good chances for birdie.  I misread some putts, but I hit a lot of really good putts, so I'm very pleased with the round overall.
Q.  You must be super pleased.  There is something happening here.  You had a lot of good shots last week in Ireland.  Is there a continuum here?
 DON POOLEY:  I hope so.  I played well last week for most of the week.  I had a few mistakes there each day.  It was a tough course.  It was perfect conditions today.  The course is in perfect shape.  The greens were very soft today, a lot softer than the practice rounds.  That's why we're scoring so low.
Q.  When you only miss one fairway, that would lead to a lot of chances for birdies?
 DON POOLEY:  I had a lot of opportunities today.  I made five of them.  It was a good day, good start.
Q.  Are you familiar with the weather for tomorrow?
 DON POOLEY:  I have no idea.  Thunder showers?
Q.  Heavier later in the day.  Maybe you will get done in the light rain.
 DON POOLEY:  God, I would hate it if that happened.
Q.  Are you jet lagged at all?
 DON POOLEY:  No I feel great.  I had a nice flight back.
Q.  Are you serious?
 DON POOLEY:  I'm serious, I had a nice flight back.
Q.  Did you go home first?
 DON POOLEY:  Straight here.
Q.  Commercially or --
 DON POOLEY:  No, privately.  It was a nice flight.
Q.  You didn't feel you were at any disadvantage coming straight?
 DON POOLEY:  No, I paid extra money to do what I did, and I feel real good.  Last year, I flew commercially over to Boston and I felt horrible that week.  I didn't want to do that with the US Open.  A bunch of us went privately, and I think it worked out great jet lag-wise.  It didn't work out so good financially-wise.
Q.  It could yet.
 DON POOLEY:  It could pay for itself.  That's what I'm hoping.

All right, thanks, guys.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT