SENIOR BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 23, 2004
Don Pooley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DAVE SENKO:  Maybe just get us started, talk about the day.  I guess it was survival out there for most people.
DON POOLEY:   I got off to a great start.  I 2 putted 2 for a birdie.  I hit it close on 3, about three feet on the third hole for a birdie.  And then parred 4 and then made about a 12 footer on 5 for a birdie.

So I was 3 under through 5 and the wind was howling out there.  Coming it I was just trying to make par, made a bogey on 18, wasn't too happy with that, but overall it was a good day.

Bogeys on 6,9 and 18.  6, I hit a 5 wood left of the green and tried to putt it from there and didn't get it up and down.  It was a long shot.

Then 9, I hit it in the right rough on my second shot, but the club     caught the club and shoved it down and hit it in the left rough from there and didn't get up and down.  That was a disappointing bogey on 9.  Yesterday, I eagled 9 and 10, and was 4 under through hose two holes.  That was a big turnaround there for me.

18, I hit it in the left bunker, my iron shot, I played my iron shot left in the bunker and didn't get that up and down.  I made a lot of good saves today.  I'm very pleased to be tied for the lead at this point at the halfway mark, at least right now.
Q.  How long was the putt?
DON POOLEY:   The last hole?  That was about ten feet.
Q.  Inaudible?
DON POOLEY:   Well, the shot, that disappointed me was the irons in the fairway.  It was straight downwind and all I had to do was get it started straight and it was going to run up there somewhere.  I pulled it left into trouble.  That's the thing about this golf course, you hit a shot off line and you've got a lot of work ahead of you to get your par.

So it's a very difficult golf course.  The wind was a little different today as you know, and so the course played a little differently, which was fun, fun to play a different course every day.  So it's a real challenging golf course.  I like it a lot.
Q.  Do you enjoy playing these conditions?  How often have you played links golf?
DON POOLEY:   Not very often.  I've been over here five times for the British Open, and then played in last year at Turnberry for the Senior British and now this year.  The first time I came over for the British Open, I didn't qualify, but I played in four British Opens after that and the last two Senior Opens.

I love links golf.  You get a variety of shots out there, you can play a variety of shots, and it's just, you know, you need to use your imagination and have a good feel for different shots.  And it's fun golf.  I like to play it that way.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT