SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE MEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 14, 2019
Billy Kennedy
Savion Flagg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Mississippi State-80, Texas A&M-54
THE MODERATOR: We are ready to start with Texas A&M.  We'll stay with some opening thoughts on the game by Coach Kennedy.
BILLY KENNEDY: We ran into an experienced, well-coached Mississippi State team.  I thought they were razor sharp, came out of the gates with a lot of energy.  Unfortunately for us, I thought last night's game took a little bit out of us.
But you have to give Mississippi State credit.  They were very good tonight.
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Savion.
Q. What was it about Mississippi State tonight that kept y'all off balance?
SAVION FLAGG: Fresh legs.  They were coached well.  They came out with a lot of energy, were hitting shots.  Lamar Peters hit two big shots to start off the game.  I feel like that really got them going.
Q. You mentioned fresh legs.  Your coach mentioned last night's game taking something out of you.  Were y'all tired tonight?
SAVION FLAGG: I would say some of us were tired.  I wouldn't use that as an excuse as to why we lost the game.
THE MODERATOR: Savion, we'll excuse you.  We'll continue with questions for Coach Kennedy.
Q. I know y'all had lots of roster losses during the season.  How difficult was this season to get through with all the adversity?
BILLY KENNEDY: Well, you could tell just the first type of minutes of this game there was a difference in personnel.  Mississippi State's physicality and experience, their depth against our guys, I thought our guys fought hard and did the best they could, but it's been a grueling season.  When you're only playing six and seven guys, playing a couple of guys 40 minutes a game, it wears on you.
It's just been that type of year.  Last night we played really well, played with a lot of energy.  Tonight, I mean, we weren't razor sharp.  You can't win at this level in this league against the type of teams we're playing against if you're not at your best, at full strength.  It's hard to win.
Q. Sorry to bring it up in this setting.  There was a report before the tournament that you weren't going to be back next year as a coach.  What update could you give us?  Have you heard anything about your job status?  Has anybody talked to you about what the future holds?
BILLY KENNEDY: I wish I knew.  I don't know anything.  I haven't talked to any of my administrators about it.  Coming into this game, when you hear something as you're walking in a gym, you hear it off the Internet, it's not the way you want to hear something like that, going into a tournament and trying to play for a championship, trying to win games in the SEC.  It's an unfortunate situation.
I'm not sure.
Q. How much of a distraction was that for you this week?  Didn't seem like it bothered you last night.  What did you tell the team going in?
BILLY KENNEDY: I didn't want it to be about me, so we tried to focus on beating Vandy first.  Made it all about the game, beating Vandy, representing Texas A&M in the best way possible.
Like I said, it's hard enough to win games, win championships, win at this level with any adversity.  I'm sure that didn't help.  But that's not why we got beat.  Mississippi State was really good tonight.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT