PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 14, 2011
David Dixon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DAVID DIXON: I've been playing good, believe it or not over the last four or five events and just been putting really terribly. You know, Chris and I have been working a bit on it and we found something different this week, and tried it out and yesterday it didn't start off very well.  
 But then the back nine I started to hole a few and then today was really good. I holed some really good putts under some severe break, and yeah, it was really good. Just got some reward for a change for playing good. So very pleased.   
  
  Q. Without baffling me, what did you find? What did you change?  
 DAVID DIXON: It was just something in the grip that Chris had done himself. He's a good player himself. And just I think he tried once and he told me to try, and it was really good, just a slight change on my grip and it just enables me to keep my stroke more square through impact. It was breaking down through impact. Without getting too technical, it's nothing too serious but it's cool.  
  
  Q. Not one of those things where you laugh in the first place and then he says that you tried, and you think, you're right, grudgingly.   
 DAVID DIXON: Not really. It felt quite comfortable to be honest, and I wouldn't take the mickey, he's a bit sensitive.   
  
  Q. And certainly he's got the reward, you've gone right up the leaderboard shooting into contention?  
 DAVID DIXON: This time of year, I'm in a position unfortunately I didn't want to be in and I need a good week. I've got nothing to lose and everything to gain.   
 Like I say I've been playing well the last few weeks and just letting things get on top of me with my short game and stuff. Today just sort of go out and have a bit of fun and I like this course. I played well here last year and unfortunately I holed a few putts and things are much rosier, thank God.   
 So looking forward to the weekend and keep the same kind of momentum hopefully going and who knows what can happen.  
  
  Q. It was obvious, this is the kind of course you can have fun on, a holiday track in a way, isn't it.   
 DAVID DIXON: Yeah, this suits my eye this course. Easy to say when you've shot 64 but last year I played quite well around here and I just like it. I like the course. There's a few holes that you can attack out here, and I quite like attacking, especially par 5s and stuff. They are not too long like normal weeks.   
 So, it's cool. After two days, you want to be in the Top-10, and going into the weekend, because you've got yourself a good chance of being in contention on Sunday. So you know, we'll go out there and try to keep the same positive attitude on the greens and hopefully I'll be chatting to you on Sunday.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT