VOLVO GOLF CHAMPIONS
January 28, 2011
David Dixon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DAVID DIXON: It was a slow start and a good finish, so, yeah, happy with that. 

 Q. Why such a slow start?
 DAVID DIXON: Well, I just struggled. It was a bit windy actually this morning so it was a bit tough out there like last night when we finished. It was a bit trickier and a few long irons into these greens. And you know those greens, if you hit a long iron in and it doesn't get the right slope, you've had it. And a couple of silly little 3-putts to start in the first four holes, which was a bit of a kick in the nether regions. 
 But just hung on and made one good putt on the 9th and it kind of snowballed a run of good putts, and then hit some good shots on the back nine. So it was a really good way to finished, really pleased.

 Q. Were you cursing your luck at one stage, getting up at an ungodly hour, and then it has to rain during your round. 
 DAVID DIXON: In all fairness, these things go in roundabouts as you know, because last week, I played late/early and we got away with the weather off and on the Friday afternoon, which was even worse than the weather we enjoyed yesterday.
 I kind of thought, this is a bit unlucky really because it was quite cold and windy this morning. In all fairness, we got lucky last week, so it's kind of one-all now. 

 Q. You were pretty tidy in Abu Dhabi, weren't you. 
 DAVID DIXON: Yeah, I know, I started off nicely. I had a couple of good day asks then the weekend, I played solid and just didn't really score. I just got in the rough one too many times and just found it difficult. I've gone two steps forward and three back sort of thing. Disappointing really, because I played nicely but this week is another week and just got to keep grinding away. 

 Q. Do you appreciate that you're in a fine position on that board?
 DAVID DIXON: No, absolutely, this is a good field again this week and if you're in the Top 15 two weeks in a row, it's nice. Just got to capitalise now and try not to make any silly mistakes and keep calm.

 Q. Dare I ask how winter was? Do anything much or does it feel a long time ago already?
 DAVID DIXON: Actually it's the first time in a long time that I've spent any it time in the U.K. and it's probably been the worst winter ever, hasn't it. I spent five weeks in the winter in the U.K. before I went down to South Africa, and that was brutal. 
 So yeah, I don't know, I'm thinking about maybe getting somewhere abroad I think for the winter. But no, it was okay to nice actually spend some time at home and I had a few things to sort out for this year, but I don't really think it's the future thing for me. Don't like the cold anymore. 

 Q. Does this part of the world appeal in that frame of mind, moving to Dubai, Abu Dhabi, Bahrain? Good for the flights?
 DAVID DIXON: It is what it is down here, isn't it. It's a great stretch of tournaments and you get spoilt when you're down here, which is really good. Not my most favourite place, I must admit, I've never really done that well down here. It's a place I come to and if I have a good week or two, I'll be happy with, but it is good here. 
 You do get spoilt, as well which is nice and it is nice to get down here in the winter in the January, February, time and be playing good, quality golf against good quality players. It's good, isn't it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT