VIVENDI CUP 2010
September 23, 2010
David Dixon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What happened today?
 DAVID DIXON: It was really good. I played great in Holland, really, really good in Holland and just could not get a putt in. The greens were a bit ropier to be fair and I felt like I was stroking it better. But it's hard when you're not holing any to feel like you're actually getting there with it. Today, like I said, I worked on a few things, and I've been at home and driving it mad with different things. 
 Yeah, I went to something really simple and just put a line on the ball, a nice thick back line, so I could get the line right. I knew I was stroking it well so that seemed to work quite well today. Hopefully fingers crossed, it will keep going like that this week. But you know this game.

 Q. That is one of the most basic things to do, isn't it. So what took you so long?
 DAVID DIXON: I don't know. I used to use a line on the ball and I think, you know, certain technique of mine wasn't quite right and I wasn't feeling like I was aiming it in the right place and I got confused with it. Now I've got my stroke, and my putting stance or whatever right place and it seems to work really well. It worked well today obviously, so you know, really pleased with it.

 Q. On the easy course?
 DAVID DIXON: Yeah, well, I couldn't say -- well, they are quite easy to be fair. They are pretty generous. I've been driving it great, as well, hitting the driver really good and putting myself right up by the greens. And my wedge play as has been really good as well, been working on that a bit. It's easy when you're hitting it off the fairway with a wedge in your hand and getting the yardages spot on and then the putts drop, as well. That's a bonus, isn't it.

 Q. I was only joking. You just made it look easy today. 
 DAVID DIXON: No, it was one of those days today. And I was just playing along nicely and not thinking about it too much.
 And you know, like I say, I got a bit of confidence early on. I hit a bad tee shot on the first into the forest and hacked it out and put it on the green and holed about an eight-foot putt for a par, and then I thought, that's just nice, made a really good par, and just feels good and gives you that bit of confidence over the next few. And made one on the next and made one on the next; so instead of being 1-under or level, I was 2-under and things were going well. So it's just a nice confidence boost there really. 

 Q. This week, the first two days, it's about team work, so what can you tell about your amateur?
 DAVID DIXON: Well, he struggled a bit on the front nine. He was a bit nervous I think, but the back nine he improved on four shots. So we were like 30-under, which was great. I think he started to relax a bit more on the back nine and he played much better golf. 
 Yeah, he's happy now so he'll be all right tomorrow. Probably get all of the nerves out of the way today, and you never know, might rip it tomorrow and that would be nice.

 Q. Are you relaxed in that format in the team format? 
 DAVID DIXON: Well, you have to be, don't you, really, because you choose to come and play in this format and you have to accept it, isn't you. 
 To be fair I like playing Pro-Ams. It's a bit more relaxed. I play a few at home with my mates and I love them and we have such a great scream when we are playing at home. Yeah, I love the Dunhill, as well, and you know, it's just different, isn't it. It's just a bit more relaxed and it's not so stressful as normal tournament golf. So yeah, it's good fun. 

 Q. Well, your attitude has to change, doesn't it, and you've just got to be courteous about the guy alongside you, whether you know him well or not?
 DAVID DIXON: Well, these guys pay fortunes to play in these things and you've got to try and make sure that they kind of enjoy their receives, otherwise they tournaments won't go ahead, will they. I think my man has had a good day today. He finished off having a good day and birdied the last, so that was pretty cool. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT