BREEDERS' CUP WORLD THOROUGHBRED CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 1, 2014
Alan Cooper
Maria Niarchos
Stephane Pasquier
Jonathan Pease
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Ladies and gentlemen, the winner of the Breeders' Cup Mile is Karakontie, and the winning connections are joining us on stage now.   They were just here two races ago, or at least Maria Niarchos, and Electra Niarchos were with us just a little while ago.   We also have trainer, Jonathan Pease, and Alan Cooper, the racing manager for Flaxman Holdings.   Congratulations to all of you.   Jonathan, if we could start with you, and just describe the race for us from your perspective, what you saw today?   
JONATHAN PEASE:   Well, I was a bit worried about the draw, but Stephane Pasquier got him into a great position, which he held.   There was a horse that took them a long way, and he was able to pick up the pieces at the end and it went well.   
THE MODERATOR:   We're joined by Stehane Pasquier.   Congratulations to you as well.   Jonathan was just taking us through the race a little bit, but if you would do the same for us?   
STEPHANE PASQUIER:   I was a little bit worried about being 14 of 14.   But we had a dream run, listening to the letter of Jonathan's instructions.   And he won like a horse with an enormous amount of class over a mile.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you for that.   Alan, if you could just talk about the second half of the year since the French Guineas, and the progress that this horse his made since then.  
ALAN COOPER:   Yeah, after French Guineas, we went for the Breeder Jockey Club.   Karakontie finished 6th or 7th, but didn't get home on the trip.   That race took quite a lot out of him, so Jonathan gave him a break.   He hoped to get him back for the Prix de Moulin, the beginning of September, but that came too soon for him.   So he went for the Prix de la Foret on Arc Day, where we had a bit of a stock car bumping race, and Karakontie was completely‑‑ any chance he had was wiped out.   
So the horse‑‑ Jonathan mapped out the idea of coming to the mile for quite a long way back.   And the colt, Karakontie came out of the Foret in good shape, and he's really enjoyed himself since being here, and we've seen the results.   
THE MODERATOR:   Maria, your impressions of the race?   
MARIA NIARCHOS:   My impressions of the race is I can't believe it.   I'm really delighted.   We've always believed in the horse.   He was born in Japan.   He has his own story, and we're absolutely thrilled that he's come back and proved his own worth.   
THE MODERATOR:   Jonathan, your second win in this race.   If you could just talk about bringing this horse here after two disappointing performances and what gave you the confidence?   
JONATHAN PEASE:   Yes, well, Alan has taken you through his last two performances, but the fact was he was the best.   He was one of the best 2‑year‑olds in Europe.   He won the Guineas in the spring.   He was a very, very good horse in the spring.   So didn't need to lose faith in him.   He's been training really well recently.   So, you know, it all came together today.   But he is a very good horse.   He hasn't had any‑‑ he hasn't perhaps had the credit that he deserves.   
He beat Charmed Spirit, too.   He won the Lagardere, which is a top 2‑year‑old race in France.   He won the French Guineas, so, you know, he is a worthy winner today, and he showed what a good horse he was to all the doubting punters particularly as he went off 30 to 1.   
   
 Q.   Jonathan, I wonder what you saw particularly in the horse that made you think he would be suitable to this style of racing?   
JONATHAN PEASE:   Well, I was going to say he's American bred, but he is really American bred because his sire was by Storm Cat, and he possibly is better on the faster track.   When he won his two Group 1s in Europe, it was very soft, so that could have moved him up a bit today.   
   
 Q.   What does the future hold for him now?   
JONATHAN PEASE:   Well, I think I better ask to the right and left of me.   
MARIA NIARCHOS:   We're going to enjoy today, and we'll think about tomorrow, tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Stephane, I saw you win the Arc in 2006.   Now you've won on the world's biggest stage.   How special is this to you?   
STEPHANE PASQUIER:   Every race is special for me.   I'm delighted to be associated with horses like Karakontie, Manduro, Rail Link (Indiscernible).   I work hard in order to be associated with those types of horses.   
   
 Q.   Are you planning a trip to India this year?   
STEPHANE PASQUIER:   I've had a very busy year.   Maybe I will, but I'm also going to have a good holiday.   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT