GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 6, 1997
Chris Woodruff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JOE LYNCH: First question for Chris.

Q. You must be disappointed about those two tiebreakers?

CHRIS WOODRUFF: In what way?

Q. (Inaudible.)

CHRIS WOODRUFF: It was a tough match.

Q. Could you explain your emotions, you save two matchpoints, then you doublefaulted,
how emotionally you felt there?

CHRIS WOODRUFF: I was a little frustrated. Just a bad serve, nothing -- no pressure
really or anything -- terrible, terrible serve. Never had a chance, the ball toss was so
low. Obviously, my emotions, after that doublefault, a little frustrating. But he hit an
ace. It is not like I could have got the ball back into play anyway. Not too much of a
high, really. Just, you know, in this game you can't get too high or too low. Just try and
stay even keel out there. 

Q. The last two weeks, especially have been especially good for you. Is this a
breakthrough couple of weeks for you to get to another level?

CHRIS WOODRUFF: Definitely I'd say it is pretty -- I'd say it is definitely a
breakthrough.

Q. How much have you learned about, you know, coming off of a tournament win and coming
into a tournament and have to prepare play back-to-back like that?

CHRIS WOODRUFF: Before I was used to beating top guys but had trouble stringing them
together. But this has taught me to -- I think it is really good that I beat all those top
guys last week and then I came here and prepared. And, now I know what it is like at least
- if you win a big tournament to come to the next tournament. I had really no preparation
of these courts, never really got used to these balls. I went right into my first round
match really not too prepared to play here, but I think I learned a lot.

Q. What if anything would you have done differently considering the draw that you had
to play -- was there anything that you would have done differently?

CHRIS WOODRUFF: No. Not really. I couldn't have gotten the flight out of Montreal, I
don't think I could have made it to get here on Sunday. Maybe that would have been the
only thing, but nothing -- no, I wouldn't do anything differently. It is tough to -- yeah,
because the mind wants to become satisfied. Out here seems like you never really can
become satisfied because there is always another week.

Q. Would it have been great to have a week off to think about the win?

CHRIS WOODRUFF: No, I think it was good that I came here and played. I think it is good
that I got this tournament -- definitely I got it out of my system now and I can drive
back to Knoxville today and go back and relax for a couple of days. Get away from the
tennis scene.

Q. Did you actually discuss how to go about handling that or (Inaudible.) --

CHRIS WOODRUFF: I have had -- I have played out to the semis and stuff and got out on
Monday, but we never had to really deal with a big win like that one. So, it is tough. It
is tough. If I were a golfer I would have teed off on Thursday and maybe had a couple more
days to get the mind and everything into it.

Q. I know you said yesterday last week was over and everything but now that you are out
of this tournament did you allow yourself to say can, oh, now I did a lot of things right
last week --

CHRIS WOODRUFF: Haven't really thought about it yet.

Q. Will you, though?

CHRIS WOODRUFF: I don't know. I am going to go home to just kind of try to rest up,
really. I am sure it will -- I am sure I will think about it and enjoy the victory. Be
nice to get back home for a couple of days.

Q. No delayed celebration or anything?

CHRIS WOODRUFF: No. Indianapolis next Monday.

Q. A year after being on the Tour having to struggle, could you foresee -- you even had
thoughts of quitting in your mind, could you foresee at this time that you would be 30th
in the world winning a Super 9?

CHRIS WOODRUFF: No, I don't think you can predict what is going to happen.

Q. What was the turning point? When did it come?

CHRIS WOODRUFF: I don't know, really. Just got used to playing out here. Got used to --
I used to -- playing these top guys and getting the way they hit the ball and the level of
competition, really. I don't know if I can put my finger and say well there is one turning
point. I just got adapted out here.

Q. Was it more mentally than having to adapt (Inaudible.) --

CHRIS WOODRUFF: It is a lot mental out here that is for sure. That is definitely mental
a lot of mental.

Q. The top players, the top 10, the top 5 go into every tournament thinking that they
are going to win the tournament. Guys that are lower ranked, what do you go into the
tournament thinking? Do you put a round that you want to reach? Do you think you can win
the tournament? You have obviously done it. But before last week, what did you go into
every tournament thinking?

CHRIS WOODRUFF: Just try to go in there with an attitude take it match by match and
everyone in there trying to shoot -- you know, set a goal that I was going to get to the
quarterfinals or just try and win this one, second round or whatever, I went always in
there thinking I had a legitimate chance of winning the tournament and I always try to
take it match by match.

Q. Did you feel at all physically tired today or mentally tired at all?

CHRIS WOODRUFF: That my legs are a little sore. A couple of points I could remember
clearly that I didn't have my legs I needed.

Q. He talked about the advantage of may be having a couple of days off before playing
Indianapolis on Monday. Can you talk about that event? Can you talk about the Indianapolis
event and the challenge of being in another quality event three weeks in a row and that
event itself?

CHRIS WOODRUFF: Obviously Indianapolis is a great tournament. It is one of my favorite
tournaments on the Tour. I imagine there are going to be good players there, but I have to
approach it like any other tournament. They treat the players -- they are really nice to
the players. Not to mention they have a lot of golf available. That is nice.

Q. Do you have a handicap in golf?

CHRIS WOODRUFF: I have a 3 handicap.

Q. Do you find you have time to play very much lately?

CHRIS WOODRUFF: Not lately. But, I will try and find time to play maybe 18 or 36 holes
when I am home a couple of days.

Q. Did you ever at any point consider going that way?

CHRIS WOODRUFF: Golf?

Q. Yes.

CHRIS WOODRUFF: Never. Never.

Q. Do you play during the weeks of the tournament?

CHRIS WOODRUFF: Golf?

Q. Yes.

CHRIS WOODRUFF: Usually I play when I am out of a tournament. Not too much while I am
in. Occasionally I will play on Monday, have Tuesday off and play 9 holes. But I don't
really play too much when I am at tournaments.

Q. There has been a lot said about the state of American tennis among the men. What
situation do you think the men's game is in?

CHRIS WOODRUFF: Great. Great shape. I think American tennis is in great shape.

Q. Why do you say that?

CHRIS WOODRUFF: Well, you have like myself, Alex O'Brien. You have -- I guess the big
thing that people don't realize is -- let us just take a look at here. I won Montreal.
Chang won Washington. Courier won Los Angeles. Jim and Courier and Chang are what, 25, 26.
Pete, I think, how old is Pete? 25. Those guys are going to be around now for five, six
more years. Hopefully I will be around and can carry the flag. So we don't have to worry
about that for six, seven years. Now maybe six, seven years from now, you ask me that
question, maybe it will be a different answer. I think the general knowledge of the public
always wants to focus on the negative and let us focus on the positive. These guys are
going to be around for six, seven years. We have the 1 and 2 players in the world.

Q. Do you think it is a bum wrap seeing that the media coverage that American tennis is
not great right now?

CHRIS WOODRUFF: I haven't paid attention to it too much because I think state of the
game is in good shape so it doesn't really concern me or bother me too much.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT