U.S. OPEN
August 28, 1996
Chris Woodruff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Following up on your Philadelphia success. Tough day today?
 
 CHRIS WOODRUFF: Yeah, obviously. 
 
Q. Dave saw the match, I didn't. I understand you had three match points?
 
 CHRIS WOODRUFF: Yeah, three match points. He played those points pretty well. 
 
Q. When you beat Agassi at the French, lose here first round, is this part of the
learning, getting experience on the Tour?
 
 CHRIS WOODRUFF: Yeah. Well, I'm pretty experienced. The bottom line was, this loss is
very disappointing. Has nothing to do with experience. I'm three years out here; had
nothing to do with the experience, just a poorly played match. 
 
Q. You figure at this point you should be able to get a couple rounds in, at least?
 
 CHRIS WOODRUFF: Oh, yeah. No question. Well, just the way you lose. I don't care about
getting a couple rounds in. Never really come off the court feeling good from a loss, but
particularly if you do the same thing over and over. 
 
Q. What was it today you thought you did?
 
 CHRIS WOODRUFF: Phased in and out of the match. I started out playing pretty well, then
played poorly, then well for the third set. I went in and out of the match. 
 
Q. After Philadelphia you lost in the first round four tournaments in a row, then
finals in Carl Springs. I know in Philadelphia, you had to go through qualifying. You said
you were tired by the end of the tournament. Was that a carryover?
 
 CHRIS WOODRUFF: I can't even remember. That's too long ago to remember. 
 
Q. You beat Agassi at the French. McEnroe just said on TV that now you're not just sort
of another player out there, your opponents know you better. Do you become a good win for
them now?
 
 CHRIS WOODRUFF: I'm top 50 now. Any time you win a guy in the top 50, I'd say that's a
pretty good win, I don't care who you are. 
 
Q. Are you surprised there aren't more Americans in the top 100? When you get below the
Top 10 or 15, it's pretty thin. 
 
 CHRIS WOODRUFF: It's tough out here. I don't really pay attention. We're all trying the
best we can. It's just tough. It's only getting harder. 
 
Q. You've talked about and your coach talked about the time in France, talking about
quitting. I'm not implying you're thinking of quitting. You've taken this loss hard today,
I guess it's natural. Can you shrug it off by next week or is this going to stick with you
for a while?
 
 CHRIS WOODRUFF: I don't know. 
 
Q. What I'm getting at, maybe you could handle it better now than you could have a year
ago?
 
 CHRIS WOODRUFF: Probably not. Probably not. You lose like this, it's tough to take.
Maybe I'll deal with it. I don't know. We'll see. 
 
End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT