AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2001
Chris Woodruff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Was it the heat?

CHRIS WOODRUFF: What's that?

Q.  Was it the heat that got to you? What turned the match around?

CHRIS WOODRUFF: No, it was not hot out there at all.  I think I became a little too predictable with the way I was playing and he seemed to get a good groove and I just  -- I didn't think I thought as well out there as I could have.  I was playing really smart in the first set and a half.  The struggle started long before he broke me at 5-4 in the second set.  I think it started about 3-all things started to get a little harder. 

Q.  How are you holding up, though? Just mentally and physically I guess at that point. 

CHRIS WOODRUFF: Fine.  I tweaked a little something in my leg and it may have cost me some mobility mainly out to the right side, but other than that, I felt fine out there.  It's a beautiful arena.  No, it wasn't windy at all in there.  I couldn't believe it.  It was a magnificent atmosphere, and really nice to play in there. 

Q.  A guy who's won here before the ropes.  How tough do you take a loss like this? Do you move on from here, you played a pretty good match?

CHRIS WOODRUFF: I don't take the loss very hard.  Beating myself up about losing a match, I'd like to think those days are behind me.  I think I had a good tournament.  You're right, I did have a tough draw.  That's an awfully tough  -- I was playing well enough to keep on participating here in the Australian Open, but it was unfortunate in some ways that I had to come up against him.  We've played several times, and he's starting to get the best of me.  And the matches are always close, but it was a bit unfortunate that I had to play him in the third round. 

Q.  You learned your lesson last year, you're going to go back home or stick around to hear what's going on with Davis Cup?

CHRIS WOODRUFF: Well, you know, he's already told me that I'm going, so that's not really an issue.  I'll probably leave on Monday.  I'll let my body calm down tomorrow before I sit on a plane, go back home to Tennessee.

Q.  When did he tell you that and what was your reaction to the news?

CHRIS WOODRUFF: Well, he kind of insinuated that a couple of days ago.  And I think the win over Gambill was, you don't want to say like it was a college challenge match, but I think that had some weight behind it.  I think he sees I'm playing pretty well.  Hitting the ball very cleanly right now.  So I think we're going to  -- three guys are pretty definite who's going over there, myself, Jan-Michael Gambill and Todd Martin.  I think the fourth guy is still up in the air.  Maybe it's his brother. 

Q.  That would make it interesting. 

CHRIS WOODRUFF: Wouldn't be surprised. 

Q.  Really?

CHRIS WOODRUFF: To be honest --

Q.  Just a gut feeling or...

CHRIS WOODRUFF: I'm not  -- I don't know.  Maybe more than a gut feeling, but I'm not going to say because I really don't know.  I know there are about four or five guys for sure who he's looking at, and I know his brother may be one of them. 

Q.  How would you feel about having John come along?

CHRIS WOODRUFF: Well, just as long as those two don't clash and tussle over who's the captain, it will be okay.

Q.  Yeah, especially for you.  Might lead to a little confusion.  Went through so much with John last year, then you'll see him sitting there again. 

CHRIS WOODRUFF: Yeah.  We have a good team, we'll be quite capable of winning. 

Q.  Do you have any opinions to offer on this whole prize money debate?

CHRIS WOODRUFF: Well, I don't know what's been said.  I know that Kafelnikov came in here and said that we weren't paid   -- he thought we were underpaid.  And is anybody else  -- has Todd or Pete or Andre, they had anything to say?

Q.  They take different positions. 

CHRIS WOODRUFF: They have.  They think we're overpaid or  --.

Q.  No.  I think Pete did.  Pete said that. 

CHRIS WOODRUFF: Pete thinks we're overpaid. 

Q.  Todd said the same. 

CHRIS WOODRUFF: Well, I guess what everybody has to understand is relative to the professional golfers we don't get paid nearly as much as they do.  His point is very well taken.  In fact, a friend of mine won the Tucson Open who went to the rival high school in Knoxville, Tennessee, I know him very well, Garrett Willis (ph).  I think his payout was $540,000.  That is what I would categorize as winning Memphis.  It's about that level.  I think the payout at Memphis is 125,000.  So relative to golf, we're definitely underpaid.  Compared to golf, I want to emphasize that.  I think for Pete to say  -- if Pete in fact did say we're overpaid, it's easy for him to say that, you look in the player profile, he has $42 million in career prize money or 41.  I think everybody has to be realistic.  It's a very, very nice life style out here if you're successful, and we make   -- I think we make a very nice living.  But I think Yevgeny, what he meant to say was relative to the professional golfers, we don't make nearly as much as they do and so...

Q.  You understand how that sounds to like just the average Joe, though, working?

CHRIS WOODRUFF: Yes.  I'd assume, you know, probably to  -- but he speaks his mind and maybe it wasn't the most appropriate thing to say because I don't think tennis is as popular as golf is right now either, and that's pretty obvious.  But, yeah, you have a good point about  -- but I think he meant   -- like I said earlier, I think he meant that relative to golf.  I don't think he necessarily meant that we're underpaid in general.  My understanding was he was comparing that to golf, is that correct?

Q.  Uh-huh. 

CHRIS WOODRUFF: So what he says is accurate then.  We are underpaid relative to golf. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT