RCA TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
August 14, 1996
Chris Woodruff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 

Q. If you could go through the match today, I guess you broke him in the final game of the first set and then he got you back once in the second.  Was it that evenly matched did you feel?
 
CHRIS WOODRUFF:  Yeah, first of all, the conditions of the grandstand court we are playing today is very windy, so it was conditions I thought were very rough to play in.  I hadn't played in tough conditions all year that way.  That was an adjustment.  Mark and I are really good friends, as well, so it was tough to play him.  I think he felt the same situation, you know, he was in the same position I was.  There wasn't a lot of emotion.  You want to hold in your emotion because you respect your friend, so it was kind of tough.  
 

Q. What was the difference in the third set to get up  4-1?
 
CHRIS WOODRUFF:  Well, when we sat down at the changeover in the second set, I told myself to move my feet and reach up for my first serve.  Like I said before, it was windy, so I had to -- I kind of lost my footwork in the wind.  You really have to move your feet extra.  Then I started serving well.  I really didn't notice until actually the last game that something was wrong with him. 
 

Q. There were no indications before?
 
CHRIS WOODRUFF:  I really couldn't tell.  The points, I noticed he was trying to make the point shorter, but he had been doing that pretty much the whole match trying to get into the net.  He was trying to force the issue of play out there.  So I really never noticed until the point that he retired on that he didn't even move for the shot, so..... 
 

Q. About breaking into the top 50 for the first time, is there any sense of awe or wonder or is it something that you were planning on accomplishing this year?
 
CHRIS WOODRUFF:  No sense of satisfaction whatsoever to that.  I think I am glad I did it.  But something I had -- I always knew I could do, but for me to sit back here and say I am happy or satisfied and, you know, walk around for the next eight years and say I am 47 in the world, and settle for the mediocrity, that is not going to cut it for me, so there is no sense of awe or anything.  
 

Q. When you turned pro then you played a lot in the Challenger and Satellite series a lot for about a year and a half.  Were you expecting a quicker move or was that something that you had planned to do for a while?
 
CHRIS WOODRUFF:  I came out here with no expectations.  I have to admit, starting out, I was a little impatient, so maybe I thought-- really was not used to losing because in college and, you know, juniors, I had done so well and was -- always seemed like I was always winning.  Then to come out here and lose week after week after week, it got tough.  So I had to persevere through some hard times. 
 

Q. At this tournament last year, you had a small breakthrough with your first Tour win.  Was that something that was sort of a special moment, a kind of a moment that you broke into where you wanted to be?
 
CHRIS WOODRUFF:  Yeah, I remember last year whenever I was playing a tournament like this and I would just win a round, I thought it was the greatest thing since slice bread, whenever I would do that, but now, it seems I like to - I have kind of changed my goals around and I think I am capable of winning a tournament like this, so I just -- it was special all last year whenever I have a win at a tournament like this. 
 

Q. Not just particularly this tournament, but was there any point either late last year or early this year where suddenly things clicked in and you felt now I belong here? 
 
CHRIS WOODRUFF:  Not really.  I mean, I started out the year with a tournament in Germany that I won and I have just continued to play steady tennis.  I feel -- I finally feel like I belong out here.  Philadelphia, well, that was the breakthrough tournament.  Well, technically I got to the finals there, but I had worked very hard to get to that stage, so I was bound to get some wins sometime. 
 

Q. If you could comment on now that you are in pretty much the main draw right off the bat, how much easier that is compared to, you know, having qualifiers and a tougher road each week to enter -- in the first couple of rounds of a tournament?
 
CHRIS WOODRUFF:  Well, qualifying obviously is very tough.  You have to play three rounds most of the time to get into a tournament.  When you get into a tournament you could play a Sampras or an Agassi or some top gun like that, and you pick up like six or seven points, so, it is tough for somebody to come to a tournament like this and qualify because 90% of the names -- I check their name and they lose first round because, one, they either play somebody who is better than them or they are just tired.  So it is definitely, if you have -- what I would recommend is to work your way up kind of like I did, play Satellites Challengers, until you can get into tournaments on your ranking rather than have to come in and qualify.  
 

Q. So that was a conscious effort for you to do that rather than beat yourself up for qualifying?
 
CHRIS WOODRUFF:  We initially started to come to tournaments like this and play and I would lose and next week lose, so it -- kept on going and going until finally we had to reevaluate; got some advice from other people who told us, you know, look, play Satellites, use your ranking there to get into Challenger main draw; then if you do well in Challengers, then come here.  I think the days like the Connors or McEnroes or people like that just come out here and light it up, those days are over.  
 

Q. Talk about playing Todd Martin tomorrow.  What do you know of his game?  What are your expectations?
 
CHRIS WOODRUFF:  I will just say that he -- obviously, he is very good.  I know a lot about his game.  I have seen him play on TV numerous times when I was still in college.  In terms of expectations, I have no expectations tomorrow whether I am going to win or lose.  I just want to go out there and give it my all.  I don't think my focus can be to go out there and get caught up in, oh, I am playing Todd or got to win, I think those are all wrong thoughts.  I know I am as good as Todd is.  And I know if I play well the results will take care of themselves, but I am not going to go in thinking about winning because obviously he is a very good player.   
 

Q. Could you go back to what you were talking about a few minutes ago as far as what you did to overcome the anxieties or the temporary loss of confidence when you were losing right out of college when you were playing in the ATP tournaments before you started that -- what caused -- what was the analysis or what is your analysis in retrospect of your genesis of -- I am not phrasing that very well. 
 
CHRIS WOODRUFF:  I don't understand what he means.  What was it like to come out here and lose or -- 
 

Q. No.  Was it simply just the fact that you didn't win right off at the top level that caused you to do it or was there anything else?  Was it the technical analysis of the game and deciding to work on certain parts of the game.....

Q. How did you get reborn?  How did you get turned around?  What did it take?
 
CHRIS WOODRUFF:  My career?  
 

Q. Yes. 
 
CHRIS WOODRUFF:  It just took, for me, just hanging in there. I had to. 
 

Q. Did you have to change any of the stroking as he has asked you?  Did you have to go back --

Q. I was talking to Scott yesterday.  He was telling me some things.  Could I hear it from you, maybe, as to what you changed technically?
 
CHRIS WOODRUFF:  Nothing really technical changed in  my game.  I -- now, I think maybe it is a bit too late to change things.  I am a little bit too far along in my career to change my serve or something like that.  So it was not technical in my game.  I think mainly it was in my head.  That is where all the problems were. 
 

Q. You said you matured a lot during that process and that the combination of him kind of being the manager and then with your family, the right kind of support from your family and just your own -- he explained it kind of like a triangle type of relationship which was responsible a lot for that maturation process.  Is that the way you look at it kind of?
 
CHRIS WOODRUFF:  Yeah.  Pretty -- that is pretty much correct. 
 

Q. Can you speak about the family support; how they supported you and how they kept their distance in certain ways --
 
CHRIS WOODRUFF:  Well, just my family, they have always been very supportive of me and they have never put any pressure on me to win.  They have always -- I have never felt any pressure from them that, you know, you got to do well or they are trying to live their dreams through me.  And growing up, I played all sports, golf, basketball, baseball, so they were very supportive and I owe them a lot of credit for things I have done in tennis so far. 
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT