NHL ENTRY DRAFT
June 22, 1996
Marty Reasoner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Well, I haven't even thought about that.  It's to the point right now I am -- I've been able to play for everyone all my life, so I don't think I'll really have too much of a problem. 
 
I consider myself an offensive player, but I also think that I can play both ends of the ice. You know, I'm not the most physical player, but I think I can create a lot of things for other players, and you know, I like to be out in decisions or you know, face offs at the end of the games and being the guy that's out there at the end of a game to make a difference in the win or the loss. 
 
I don't know.  For a while there I was sweating.  I wasn't sure what was going on.  And no one throughout the whole thing let their cards down, so. .  It was kind of a long process, I -- being a college age kid, I was supposed to be drafted last year, and they changed the age and it's been kind of a long process.  And I'm really happen about it and I look forward to the future. 
 
I think definitely.  I think that was one of the biggest things for me.  I needed to get a lot  stronger and mature as a person.  I think it helped that one year and I put on about 15 pounds of strength, so you know, I look forward to being part of the organization. 
 
Yeah, I think that was the biggest flaw in my game was probably strength, and I think I really dedicated myself this year and it really turned out pretty well. 
 
Yeah, I just remember, you know, being eight, nine years old skating on the pond in my town and just always taking the face off or playing on line with Wayne Gretzky in the Stanley Cup finals and it's almost a dream come true.  I grew up in the mid-80s, which is, you know, the Oilers dynasty, so he was always the guy that everyone loved, so it's unbelievable. 
 
I don't know.  I think there's a lot of different scouting services that had me rated from all different areas, and I tried not to focus too much on them and not where people had me and just concentrate on my game, and I think I improved in the second half of the season at the World Junior Tournament and played well for my team. 
 
Uhmm, Craig Jannis (ph) had a -- he's had a great year as a pro player, but I think, you know, the players are kind of at Deerfield Academy and Boston College; different players that played different styles of the game. 
 
I think that's up to the Blues, I  guess.  I don't know.  I just want to, you know, be a"Blue" as soon as possible and that's my ultimate goal, to play in St. Louis as soon as possible.  So I couldn't answer that right now, I guess. 
 
I had goose bumps.  I mean, it was a thrill to be able to be drafted in St. Louis, and it's almost -- it's like a dream come true.  It's unbelievable. 
 
I think I may go into it, yeah. 
 
Yeah, I don't know. 
 
It may.  Right now I'm undecided. I'm not sure.  I think the classes that I had taken in school this year helped me deal with the media and interviews and things like that, and I think that's probably the biggest reason for being a major, I guess. 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT