MLB WORLD SERIES: NATIONALS VS ASTROS
October 29, 2019
Adam Eaton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tim Bogar is a finalist for the Mets managing job. He does infielders, you're not. I'm wondering how much interaction have you had with him? And have you got a feel for him as a manager?
ADAM EATON: I told him when I got on the bus today I saw him on the back of my Cheerios box. He's been, I feel like, all over the news. Kind of in our face. It's part of kind of what we do.
You hope that everybody in this game just goes up from there and works to a better position in their mind, whatever can benefit their family. And good for him. Hopefully -- like I said, whatever can benefit his family and going forward he can make happen.
We're happy for him and his opportunities.
Q. Have you seen qualities that make him --
ADAM EATON: Yeah, I love him over there. I have a three-year-old and he's taken time out to help him with ground balls and fielding and whatnot. And he has a very big heart. In my short time in the big leagues, I feel like people with big hearts usually do a pretty fantastic job with that. And again, involving families and really being able to manage people.
So like I said, I've really enjoyed my time with him.
Q. When you all came here the first time to face Justin Verlander, you were coming off the winning streak coming out of NLCS. Is it different now being down 3-2 facing him again for a second time?
ADAM EATON: To be honest with you, I don't think many guys really think about the series in its entirety. I think more guys just try to have -- plan on going in and trying to accomplish the goal of winning today.
If we think that this is win-or-go-home type game, it makes it more difficult on you as an individual, as a team. But if you just go out there and try to go 1-0 today, just like Davey has said all year, and go pitch by pitch, I think success is easy to come by.
I think we're just trying to formulate a plan like we did the first time. I'm sure he'll have a different look than he had the first time, not in a sense because you hit him or anything like that, but I think they've done such a terrific job of keeping us off balance all series.
Pitch one has an effect on pitch four, I feel like that's what they've done a really good job with, and setting us up throughout three or four at-bats, I feel like they've mapped out our at-bats ahead of time. It's quite amazing. But it also shows you how well they execute pitches.
It goes to be nothing short of what he brings today.
Q. You said the other night after Game 5 that you guys had earned the right to be here, that you weren't just looking at this as a moral victory, we're happy to be here. How does that manifest itself in a game like tonight?
ADAM EATON: We don't have anything to lose. I think, like I said, if we simplify things and that we have a type of pride about us going into the game, that this is a very good team we're facing, but we're just as good. And, like I said, proud to be around one another one more day.
I think like I said, we keep it as simple as that. Let's be around each other one more day. Let's win another ball game and earn another spot to hopefully have a Game 7, which would be pretty remarkable and exciting for all of us in this room as well as in the clubhouses.
I think it's just a pride thing and we're proud to be here and I think we deserve to be here. We're going to put our best foot forward.
Q. Have you talked to Max today? I guess he was out throwing in the outfield earlier.
ADAM EATON: Did he have a neck brace on? No?
I feel so bad for that man. You want to talk about a guy that absolutely puts everything in his work, into just his life of just baseball. I don't know how he's ever going to function outside of baseball because he's literally part of baseball in the sense of how he -- everything he does is wrapped around his starts, his work. And it's, just like I said, my heart goes out to him. My heart hurts for him. Like we've discussed many times before, we're a family here, and we truly believe that.
All of us guys know that if he could take the ball in any way, shape or form, he would. Sad to see it. Like I said, our heart goes out to him. But you know what, next-guy-up type of mentality.
Since he threw today I'm not really sure if his -- what he's able to do or capable of doing. I don't have any insight on that. But like I said, if that guy can go out there he's going to go.
Q. And if he can tomorrow, how much would that fire up the group?
ADAM EATON: They'd probably make a movie about it, I bet, if he could. He could come back from the dead.
Like I said, we'll -- again, I have no speculation, but I'm telling you if he has any way, shape or form could take the ball he will.
But like I said, I don't know -- I've talked to him briefly, just giving my condolences to him. Because like I said, I know he's more disappointed than he's ever been in his entire life not to be able to take the ball. But like I said, if there's an opportunity to do it, it would be pretty sweet, honestly. I think guys would really feed off it.
Q. You mentioned the way they've mapped your at-bats. How do you guard against thinking too much about how they're approaching you? Is there a balance between just hitting and also knowing what's going on in terms of their preparation?
ADAM EATON: Yeah, it just depends on what type of hitter you are. Some people stick to your approach. Some people try to play along a little bit and kind of get a step ahead of him.
But the way they've went about this whole series, and it's probably just a credit to the catchers and the pitching staff that they have. But again is execution is huge. If you can't execute pitches, I don't care how good your game plan is, it doesn't really matter.
Like we've discussed prior, they were throwing pitches that he's thrown 3 percent all year, and he's thrown three to me in one at-bat and then I don't see it the rest, my two other at-bats versus him when it's in the back of my mind like he just threw a 3 percenter to me. Just those little mental mind games and mental warfare that they've used for me, anyway.
But like I said, guys have different hitting strategies, different structures. Like I said, some guys just sit on their pitch and wait for it, and when they get it they don't miss.
But like I said, it's been an awesome series. I wouldn't want to be anywhere else competing against the best players in the game. And like I said, their pitching staff is really impressive so I've really enjoyed it.
Q. I know you're all about tonight. If you'll permit me one big picture question. Beyond the obvious goal of what you guys are doing here tonight and potentially tomorrow, how do you want this team to be remembered? How do you think this team should be remembered?
ADAM EATON: I can't answer that. I want to, I do. I want to step outside my body and not know I have Game 6 tonight. But I can't answer that.
You have my phone number, we'll talk later (laughter).
Q. After seeing the Astros up close, five games and winning three in a row, is there one thing that impresses you most about their club?
ADAM EATON: For me their excitement level, honestly. I think they have such exciting players on their team. For me their pitching staff is their pitching staff, of course. But their hitters, I've really -- I mean, I don't enjoy it, but from a fan standpoint they are electrifying when they get to the plate. It seems like everybody can do damage at any given point.
They seem like they have a camaraderie over there, much like ours, as well. They care for one another. And it's something, like I said, I'm a baseball fan just as much as anybody else. You see that, and it's pretty neat to see on their side. But like I said, I think we've had the same type of mentality, family feel.
But they're definitely electric in really all aspects.
Q. You just touched on the pitching staff that they have there and you guys have the starters as well. After a season where there were so many runs scored, do you think it speaks to the game still being dictated by pitching that these are the two teams that these are the two teams still in the game, still playing the World Series or specific to the starters you guys have?
ADAM EATON: No, I think so. I think I could probably talk both sides of that point. I think you see so many home runs and so many runs scored that pitching's emphasis is off the charts, and you really, really need good pitching because of how good the offense is. So you can say that hitting is baseball. But also by the same token, well, if you have good pitching you can compound it in a sort of way.
I think that's the beauty of baseball. I feel like you can argue on both sides of those points. In a temporary set, for me, I have to lean on pitching. Good pitching can beat good hitting really any day in and day out.
So it's kind of neat to have two teams that are in the World Series that do have good pitching. Defensively I know that we've been very good most of the year. I'm not really sure on Houston's side.
But I think good pitching, good defense usually can get you -- and once you're playing in a game. And for me, that's a little more old school baseball than it is new school. I like that.
Q. How do you get a young guy like Soto to know the magnitude of this game? How do you get him to come in to say being so young to play in this type of magnitude down 3-2?
ADAM EATON: That's a great question. This year since Spring Training, him, Robles, and I have really come a long way, very long way. Spring Training was fun and interesting. How far we've come since then has been tremendous.
Those guys have -- Soto seems like he's playing like a 30-year-old, like his mentality. He seems like he's played ten seasons. Robles is the exact same way. The poise that both of these guys bring is day in and day out is remarkable.
You guys all think what you were doing at 20, 21 years old. You weren't hitting 98 in The Show, in the World Series, I'll tell you that. We were sneaking around doing something that we probably weren't supposed to be doing and staying out way too late.
The poise that man has, I don't have to say a word to him at this point. His feet must be made of glue, because whatever he steps in it sticks. It's unbelievable. His motor is so fast. His thought process is so quick. He picks up little things that none of us even pick up. And the communication that he is able to contest to every single day with us is remarkable. I've never seen anything like it.
I don't have to say anything at this point. Like I said, he's learned so much. He's picked up so much. Nothing phases him, as you can tell. It's like I said, it's remarkable what he's done and what he's going to continue to do.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT