NL DIVISION SERIES: NATIONALS VS DODGERS
October 4, 2019
Adam Eaton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Your first two postseason games now this week. I guess, what's it been like? What's your impressions of how it's different, how it's not?  
ADAM EATON: Yeah, no, to be honest with you, expectations were high for myself on an individual level. But I think from my own standpoint I haven't been nearly as nervous as I thought I would be. Two pretty large crowds as well. Nationals really showed up and L.A. is always a light show, so to speak. So I've enjoyed it, I've really enjoyed it, but I'll enjoy it when we're hopefully winning tonight. A little more difficult to take the losses. But playoff baseball is pretty legit.   
 Q.  Davey was talking earlier about trying to get everyone just to sort of remember who you are and not to try to be something you're not, stay loose. The team's been good at that this year. How practically do you go about doing that when there is a big situation, a big moment like this?  
ADAM EATON: No, I agree with that. I think that one of our strengths has been being loose and never really panicking. Almost taking the kind of Tony Rendon-type mentality, enjoying one another, having fun. But since we have been in the playoffs, I think the seriousness level has peaked. Like all of a sudden we have to be serious or somebody that we're not. But after the game last night a lot of the guys had some things to say, and I think it's going to translate today for us, get us to stay loose and have a perspective that has been so successful for us all year long.   
 Q.  I know you might not be able to or want to share some of the things that were said, but, like, you guys don't really meet or anything a lot. Was there a meeting?  
ADAM EATON: Losers have meetings, you know that. No, there was no meeting. Just as it always is, veterans speak up and have their voice heard. And most of it is funny stuff, just chirps and little tidbits that get guys laughing and loosen up a little bit. But the meeting's still there, by the same token, it's a little passive aggressive talking. But it's fun, it's all good fun. It gets guys in the right mindset and gets you a little more focused. And again, let the seriousness be to the side and just have fun, go play baseball.   
 Q.  As a left-handed hitter and even for some of the right-handed guys, Kershaw and Ryu next two games. What's the most important approach you guys have to have against those kind of pitchers?  
ADAM EATON: I think get on base, honestly. When they make a mistake, make them pay for it. The two guys don't make very many mistakes, so if they give us a little crack in the door we have to bust the door down. Our big innings have to be big. They're both quality pitchers, both veterans to the max and they have been there and done that. So, like I said, if they give us any openings or any crack in the armor, we have to take full advantage of it. If we don't, we're going to be in a little bit of trouble. But there's opportunities here and there for that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT