CURTIS CUP MATCH
June 12, 2010
Rachel Jennings
Mary McKenna
Sally Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  RHONDA GLENN: Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to welcome you to the Saturday afternoon news conferences, and we have with us Mary McKenna, the captain of the GB&I team, along with Sally Watson and Rachel Jennings. First, Mary, how do you feel about your position? I know you're in a tough spot here, and what's your strategy going into tomorrow? 
     MARY McKENNA: I think after yesterday, it's like we were very happy after yesterday's performance, and I know we came out this morning with great hopes. 
     I mean the standard of golf that was played this morning was absolutely phenomenal. I mean we were just hit with a birdie blitz basically and they just got more birdies than we did. And at some stage in the matches there was a whole slew of them coming through, and we didn't. And then in the afternoon we were kind of behind, we got back to level and then we slid back again. And again, it was birdie, birdie that really kind of caught us. 
     So it's all playable tomorrow. We've got eight matches. Who knows if we're capable of taking the eight. Might be a little bit of a miracle, but if we take seven, I think that maybe will do it.
     RHONDA GLENN: I want to ask Sally, you hit 155 yards, second shot on the 18th out of the high rough, although you did have sort of a good lie, and what did you hit, 7-iron? 
     SALLY WATSON: Actually hit 6-iron. 
     RHONDA GLENN: Oh, 6-iron, all right. TV said 7-iron. In my mind that was the shot of the match, in a desperate circumstance. It just rolled up there about 10 feet maybe?
     SALLY WATSON: Roughly, yeah. 
     RHONDA GLENN: Tell us what you were thinking when you were standing over that ball. 
     SALLY WATSON: I mean, to be quite honest, sometimes it's easier to hit the best golf shot when you really have no other option but to do so. So yeah, I just had to stand up there and I was lucky enough that I could just see the pin on the right side of the trees in front of me. You know, and it felt pretty good. 
     You know, I was still believing we could get our half, and you know, we wanted to get it so bad, so there was kind of only one thing left to do, try and get up-and-down from there, and I gave my best effort. Just came up a little short. 
     But yeah, it was a good golf shot. Probably shouldn't have been there in the first place, but just committed to it and it worked out well for me.
     RHONDA GLENN: How about this afternoon, Rachel? Tell us about how that match went. I know you were doing okay, you were all square, and then you lost 14, 15 and 16. Tell us a little bit about those last three holes, what happened in your experience. 
     RACHEL JENNINGS: The American team fought a lot and were knocking it close. I didn't actually realize we lost 14, 15 and 16. 
     But we just didn't hole the putts, and I hit one loose tee shot on 15 and the Americans just capitalized on it, and it wasn't -- I can't even say we played bad golf. We played good foursomes golf. They were just better on the day. The Americans were better than us on the day.
     RHONDA GLENN: And what are you trying to do tomorrow? 
     RACHEL JENNINGS: Win all eight matches.
     RHONDA GLENN: And how do you prepare for that? 
     RACHEL JENNINGS: Well, I think the six who played in the Vagliano back in Ireland knew that we were so close when we played against Europe last year. There's no reason why we can't win all eight matches. 
     I know it's tough and I know it's going to be hard, but the Great Britain & Ireland team want to win, and add that in to trying to get that cup back to Great Britain and Ireland. 
     RHONDA GLENN: Questions? 

 Q. Several players of both teams have played all four matches. You came out and you were leading all the afternoon matches and you had the lead in all three at some point, being a factor, talk about dropping -- you have several girls that have played all foursomes. Would that be a factor at this point in some of those matches?
     MARY McKENNA: I don't honestly think so. I mean our girls play international and they can play for three days 36 holes a day, and European team championships they can play for five days. So county matches they can play for five days playing two rounds a day. You know, so they're used to that kind of play. I mean I really don't think so. 

 Q. And you got off to a quick start in all three matches. Even when there was a one-point lead. Was getting off to a good start this morning something you talked about?
     MARY McKENNA: No, but I mean I think we all would hope to. First few holes are always important, but if you look at the figures, the Americans started birdie, birdie, birdie in the top match. They were birdie, birdie in the second match. I mean we just didn't match it. 
     And I'm not sure, but I think in the top match there was something like 15 birdies in 17 holes. I mean it was something phenomenal. As Rachel said, on the day they just got more birdies than we did. 

 Q. Rachel, could you tell us more abou the Vagliano?
     RACHEL JENNINGS: We were -- Great Britain and Ireland were six points behind when the final singles and we ended up losing by one and a half points. So it was a great team, especially in older caps know that we can still win, you know. The scoreboard says we can still win and we won't give up fighting until that final putt is dropped. 

 Q. How important is it, Mary, to kind of stack your lineup tomorrow to win the early points, or do you try to make it even or do you go straight to the end? What's your philosophy?
     MARY McKENNA: Well, with a team like mine, the strength is right down the team, but I certainly would guess I would go maybe my strength down line, from the top down. 
     RHONDA GLENN: Questions? All right. Thank you so much for being with us. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT