VIZIO FIESTA BOWL: BOISE STATE v ARIZONA
December 29, 2014
Austin Hill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  THE MODERATOR:   Questions. 

Q.   Will it be emotional at all, big‑time bowl game? 
AUSTIN HILL:   I'm not too much of an emotional person.   But I think it's going to be hard for me just because it's my senior year and I'm going out for the last time with the team. 
Some of the guys I've been playing with for five years.   I think it's definitely going to be tough running out with them for the last time.   At the same time, I think I'm going to be happy and pumped up 'cause it is a big game.   Not a lot of people get to play in the Fiesta Bowl. 

Q.   Talk about the atmosphere this week specifically, the excitement level. 
AUSTIN HILL:   I mean, it's definitely exciting.   Definitely one of the biggest bowl games I ever played in.   Especially it being on the national stage, it's always fun to be able to go out there and try to showcase yourself and the team on a national level. 
It's definitely exciting.   It's definitely fun to be treated like this.   It's not every day you get an army of cops escorting you to practice.   It's fun, definitely fun. 
A lot of our fans are going to be able to come to this game.   It's going to be basically like a home game for us.   It's going to be fun to go out there and showcase ourselves in front of the Arizona fans for the last time. 

Q.   Their secondary has been so good, turnovers.   What have you seen from them as far as their aggressiveness?   They like to jump on the ball.   How does that factor into your preparation?
AUSTIN HILL:   They definitely play the ball well.   They're very aggressive.   They come up when they see certain offensive keys.   They definitely like to jump and come up.   We've noticed that on film. 
They definitely make big plays.   But it's up to the receivers and Anu to make the right reads, for us to run the right routes and get open. 

Q.   Taking on the darlings of college football.   Do you talk about that at all?
AUSTIN HILL:   Not really.   We kind of just like to take it just as a game.   It's its own unique game.   We just got to go out there and be consistent as an offense.   The defense will go out there and do their thing. 
We know what we have to do as a team to get the win.   It doesn't really matter what Boise State does, as long as we don't beat ourselves.   I think it will be a good game. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT