VIZIO FIESTA BOWL: BOISE STATE v ARIZONA
December 28, 2014
Austin Hill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions.   
   
 Q.   Talk about their team.   
AUSTIN HILL:   They'll mix up their coverages, blitzes a lot.   I think with a couple more days of film work, we'll be able to find the windows and find the holes.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
AUSTIN HILL:   You know, a little bit.   I don't really like to key in on one particular player.   That's just not how I am.   
I like to see the defense as it is, see the whole defense.   But, you know, I definitely know they have some really good players in the secondary.   They're going to definitely try to make plays.   
   
 Q.   How about the new quarterback?   You redshirted last year.   At the same time, a freshman quarterback, how long did it take you to buy in?   
AUSTIN HILL:   Probably first game I definitely realized, you know, just because the whole summer, the whole camp, it was just a lot of quarterbacks going in and out, in and out, in and out.   I didn't even know which quarterback was throwing me the ball most of the time.   I'd look back and there would be five quarterbacks.   I'd look back, Who threw me that one?   That was a nice ball.   
That first game definitely opened my eyes about how composed he was, being so young.   The types of throws he made, the types of reads he made in his first start ever, you know, as a college quarterback definitely opened my eyes to this kid could be really good one day.   
He's getting better every single day, every single week this year.   I can only imagine how good he's going to be in the future.   
   
 Q.   First year, goes to the Fiesta Bowl.   
AUSTIN HILL:   Definitely, it's crazy.   The types of quarterbacks I've been blessed and honored to play with.   I played with the likes of Nick Foles, Matt Scott.   I definitely see a leader and a good quarterback in a 92.   I know in a few years, the years after, he'll be a great leader and great quarterback for this team.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
AUSTIN HILL:   It's been really important just because we do have a young quarterback.   He hasn't been in college long enough to really I think want to take those big hits.   I've been with older quarterbacks who will sit in the pocket and take a hit right to the face just to throw a touchdown, throw a nice ball.   
It really helps, especially when teams are bringing blitzes, that the offensive line is able to protect as long as possible for Anu and let Anu gain that confidence early in the game so he'll be able to make good throws.   Once he gets in his zone, he's in his zone.   
I think it's really important as the offensive line to help the quarterback get in the zone early in the games.   
For the explosive plays, as the receivers, we love those plays.   With this offense, we're definitely big play‑makers, and big plays come.   
I think we're really young at the receiver corps, except for me obviously.   We're really young.   I know that they're going to get even better in the future.   
But even now, I think we're a very good receiver corps, and we make a lot of big plays for Anu.   That's our job, to make the quarterback look as good as possible, even when he's making the wrong throws and wrong reads.   We still try to make big plays for him.   
   
 Q.   You guys have a swagger on offense, great offensive performances this year.   Is there a swagger when you go up against your opponents?   
AUSTIN HILL:   Yeah, definitely.   I think as an offense, you always have to go out there wanting to score.   As an offense, our job is to score.   
No matter how much we're down by or how much we're up by, our job is to score as an offense.   I think we have to have that swagger.   I know we have it at the receiver corps and I know we have it at the QB level.   
The offensive line, they've been starting to jump around a little bit and get a little swagger during the game.   
It's definitely important to our offense to have that confidence.   I definitely think we have it as an offense.   We just got to be a little bit more consistent.   I think we've showed a lot of inconsistency.   It's definitely important for us to be consistent and go out there and make big plays in big games.   
   
 Q.   What have you learned most about yourself this season being moved around a little bit?  
AUSTIN HILL:   I think the biggest thing I've learned is just that I didn't realize I could do well in different positions, being a different type of player.   
You know, the move to tight end, I wouldn't say it was hard.   It was definitely different, but it wasn't hard for me to do that because I pride myself on being a smart athlete, learning defensive fronts, stuff like that.   It just really came naturally.   
I've definitely learned a lot about myself, especially just the fact that, you know, I never thought I was such a physical being or I could be a physical being in there, especially how much I weigh, how skinny I am.   I never thought that I could be as physical as I've shown.   
I really pride myself on that.   
   
 Q.   How important was it to buy into what coach wanted, that mentality?  
AUSTIN HILL:   It was definitely important.   I just wanted to help the team out as much as possible.   You know, at the same time two years ago when I was thrown into being kind of the star receiver, really got the ball thrown to me a lot by Matt, you know, I kind of took on that responsibility.   Of course, I wanted to, but I didn't really expect it.   When I was thrown into it, I took it on head on.   
I knew this year, with the receivers we had, I didn't think that was going to happen.   With my position being moved around as a receiver, from inside to outside, outside to inside, I knew it wasn't going to be the same as two years ago.   
When I was thrown into tight end, I really took on that team mentality, that team‑first mentality.   I really took it head on.   If they needed me at tight end, if they thought I could help the team out as much as possible there, I would.   
That was definitely important to me, to try to really help out the team.   I think it's made me a better player overall.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT