COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
February 4, 2011
Richard Finch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Two 2s, a nice way to finish, isn't it?
 RICHARD FINCH: Yeah, Desmond, as I call it, a Tutu. I was getting a little bit impatient my caddie was telling me on the 15th when I hit a 9-iron very close to the flag and was not pleased with myself. He was telling me to be patient, which I was disagreeing but it was nice. Great way to finish, eagling the 16th and birdieing the 17th, which was nice.

 Q. Talk me through 16. 
 RICHARD FINCH: Driver off the tee. Tried to fade it a little bit so that it went a bit higher and stopped a bit quicker but didn't quite work out that way, it went quite low and must have landed in the rough and run on to the green and I had about probably a 40-foot putt. That managed to go in the middle and that was lovely. 
 Good tee shot on the 17th with a 9-iron to four feet. 

 Q. Was it the reward for patience? 
 RICHARD FINCH: I think you've just got to keep going. It was a combination. I was hitting a few poor shots and a few times getting the wrong clubs and not being near enough to the hole. So I said to my caddie, it's not a case of patience, it's just a case of hitting better shots. And that's what I managed to do at the end, and that obviously helps with the scoring.

 Q. Does frustration come because the conditions are that much more benign than they were on the opening day?
 RICHARD FINCH: I think so. Your expectations with the conditions being easier, all of a sudden you're trying to make birdies and you're seeing birdies out there. Whereas yesterday, it was really just a battle and keep trying to make pars. 
 Yesterday I was looking to make a few birdies, as well. But they came as a result of just really playing for pars to be honest. 
 Today you have to be a bit more aggressive and you can see by the leaderboard that the scoring was improving and obviously the tees were still up, because obviously I think they were expecting higher winds than eventually came today. It was a scorable day and nice to get around in the 60s which was the goal at the beginning of the round. 
 Not far away, a couple back I think. I'm pleased with the day's work, and just trying to get myself in and around there on Sunday afternoon. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT