COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
February 3, 2011
Richard Finch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Talk us through what happened on the 9th green?
 RICHARD FINCH: I was just addressing my 12-foot putt for a par, didn't feel comfortable when I stood over it. Decided to back off and start again, and as I was sort of walking back and taking two or three paces, my caddie said, "I think the ball may have moved. I think I saw it oscillate, move. I'm not sure." 
 It was news to me, that never occurred to me at all. So then asked the playing partners and they said they didn't see anything at all. Then we called for the referee, obviously because of what happened with Pádraig, it was important to get it right, if you like. 
 And obviously the referee came over and we got to the bottom of it. On the TV there was no evidence that it moved, in my mind, it had not moved and my playing partner's mind, it had not moved and my caddie could not be certain. It may have oscillated but it didn't move. He didn't say certainly had not moved but he was happy it had not moved. 

 Q. And you were sure you saw nothing?
 RICHARD FINCH: Yeah, it was news to me when he said it. I never saw, felt, or anything like that. It was a slightly disturbing moment. But I think I'm happy with myself that it was dealt with correctly and the right outcome was there. 

 Q. Was there a danger of balls oscillating on other greens, as well, today?
 RICHARD FINCH: Yeah, certainly on the exposed ones, Nos. 7 and 10, the ones that are wide open and receive the most wind. 
 Yeah, there were certainly times -- there was an instance on the fourth hole as well where I was about to tap it in and I didn't ground my putter but it did move just a couple of millimeters, so that was a lucky escape. There was a couple of instances where it sort of oscillated.

 Q. Talk us through your round of golf, you made four bogeys on the back nine, your front nine; was it easy to pick up birdies on the back nine?
 RICHARD FINCH: I don't know. I certainly played better on my first nine holes. I had a couple of -- just took the chances when they came really. 18, I managed to be on there in two. And 16 was just short of the green and chipped up to the hole. Just being patient, really. Very difficult to get close to try and make birdies, but I was fortunate on my first nine holes. 

 Q. Are you relishing shooting some good scores at the moment, 63, course record last week?
 RICHARD FINCH: Yeah, it was nice to pick up where I left off really on those nine holes. Yeah, comfortable and quite happy with where my game is and certainly tough out there, but it's the same for everyone, so just have to try to make the best of it and stay patient. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT