PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 15, 2010
Richard Finch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Seven birdies in your round and no bogeys, does it always sound better when there are no bogeys on the card?  
 RICHARD FINCH: Yeah, definitely. There's certainly tough holes out there and if you can keep your bogeys off the card, hopefully pick up a few birdies on the way in and that's what I managed to do today so delighted with it.  
  
  Q. How solid is your game at the moment?  
 RICHARD FINCH: Yeah, pretty solid. I've worked hard last weekend at the Dunhill, obviously quite windy and I wasn't too thrilled with how I played on the weekend there. But came here on Monday morning, and worked hard Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday on my game and certainly got it where I feel like I've got a bit more control and that's thanks to Pete Cowen and Mike Walker really. So getting there.  
  
  Q. Do you look at your position in The Race to Dubai in terms of The Dubai World Championship is coming up in six weeks' time?  
 RICHARD FINCH: Yes, I'm aware of it.  
  
  Q. 62ndI believe.   
 RICHARD FINCH: Yeah, at the minute. So having just slipped outside the Top 60, gives you a bit of incentive to try to go forward and get back in there really. That's the No. 1 goal at the minute and I've got a good few weeks coming up where I can get in that position in the Top 60.  
  
  Q. Were you part of this committee meeting this week; European Tour Members have to play 13 events next year. Are you part of that?  
 RICHARD FINCH: Yeah, it was unanimously decided that we thought that was the best way forward for The European Tour, and I think it will be a success.  
  
  Q. Why is it the best way forward?  
 RICHARD FINCH: I just think, you know, The European Tour is a strong, strong tour, and the proof of the recent major victories and The Ryder Cup and things like that; there's a lot of people that get things from The European Tour and it's good that the Europeans that now hopefully some of the guys can support more of the events.   
  
  Q. Where did that come from after yesterday?   
 RICHARD FINCH: Wasn't far away to be fair. I was a little bit disappointed because yesterday I holed a few good putts and I felt coming in at 2, I didn't really capitalise on those. A few errors that I made, I left a few shots out there, so when you have a couple of nice breaks, it's nice to capitalise and you can throw a good, five 6-under par round in which I felt it just got away from me a bit yesterday. But came out this morning and right from the word go, got very close on the first two holes for two tap-in birdies and managed to keep the train going.  
  
  Q. The kind of thing that gets the confidence up, thinking, this is going to be my day?  
 RICHARD FINCH: Certainly. After nine holes, I think I was 5-under par and I missed a reasonable birdie chance on the 8 from probably ten feet and 3-putted a par 5 that I hit in two. You always try to look at ways of improving but at the end of the day, it could maybe have been a bit better here and there. At the end, I was disappointed with 15 and 17, two good birdie chances, I ended up scrambling for pars on both those holes to chip-and-putt for par. Didn't capitalise on those but played the last nicely.  
  
  Q. Are conditions any easier today than the winds you had to contend with on the first day?   
 RICHARD FINCH: Playing in the morning, the wind seems to be not strong for a start and also the fact that the greens early on are in great condition, but as the day progresses because of the footprints on them, they do become a little bit, edgy, shall we say, come later on in the afternoon. It's the same for everyone sort of thing so you have to try to make the best of it really.  
  
  Q. Are you surprised to be top of the tree at the moment?  
 RICHARD FINCH: I don't think it will last long if I'm honest, looking at the scores that took place yesterday morning, most of the guys got first run on it and they have seen how to make their birdies. I don't think come the end of the day, it will be at the top but it's half-time as it were if I'm in a good position coming the back nine on Sunday, I'll be in with a chance.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT