JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 26, 2010
Richard Finch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MICHAEL GIBBONS: Richard, many thanks for joining us, 66 to lead the tournament. Give us your assessment of quite a colourful day out there, I believe.
 RICHARD FINCH: Yeah, the scorecard doesn't really tell the whole story I suppose, but to go bogey-free was quite remarkable probably. Yeah, took the slightly scenic route at times, and I'm delighted with the result. 6-under par anywhere is a great score, and on the first day, so that was good. 
 But it was just from the word go, I think I was 1-under par after five holes, and I one-putted every hole to get to that point and thought I was going to be in for a long, difficult day, which I managed to just make the best of it and score well. 
 I feel as though the last sort of few months I've been playing better than my scores have been showing, and today it seemed to make up for that. 

 Q. Are you as caught up in the whole Ryder Cup race as everybody else is? Do you spend your time looking at score boards when you're out there? 
 RICHARD FINCH: No, not at all really. I mean, I'm aware, being on the players tournament committee, but I'm not involved in any way, shape or form with Colin and the assistants and what-have-you, but obviously taking a keen interest if you like and seeing how things are. And also there's a lot of speculation amongst the guys as to what may or may not happen, but I think Sunday when the dust settles, until we know the actual fact of who is going to be in in the first place, it's all just speculation I suppose at the minute. I'm aware it's going on but it's not really in my thoughts as it were. 

 Q. Does The Ryder Cup factor make this tournament harder to win than the normal European Tour week?
 RICHARD FINCH: Possibly. I would say almost certain for the guys certainly involved in The Ryder Cup showdown, if you like.
 But for the people that aren't looking like qualifying, or on the verge of qualifying or looking at picks, looks like the rest of us go a little under the radar because most of the attention because all of the attention, or a lot of the attention is on The Ryder Cup and what may or may not happen. 
 I think for probably 90 per cent of the guys, it's a business-as-usual sort of thing really.

 Q. As a member of the committee, what's your view on the players who played in America and not come to this tournament? 
 RICHARD FINCH: I think at the end of the day, that's their decision. And they have the option and they have chosen to do that. I think from a European Tour point of view, that's slightly disappointing, but by the same rule, at the end of the day, it's a European Team, not a European Tour team. 
 So I think for Colin and all of the guys, the European guys that play on The European Tour, I think they also would like to see them here and qualify as of right. 

 Q. (Should there be changes in the future with scheduling)? 
 RICHARD FINCH: I mean, it's a mine field to be honest. You can move tournaments here and there but then other tours have tournaments different places and it's just a very difficult schedule to try to keep everyone happy everywhere all the time. It not going to happy, basically. 
 Possibly might be a tweak, minor tweak here or there might be beneficial in the future, but I really wouldn't say that I thought that is the case -- I don't think that is the case really. 

 Q. Going to ask a very interesting and non-golf question. I'm a lawyer; if you are playing your championship and you whack somebody over the head with a club, who pays? 
 RICHARD FINCH: Not a clue. I don't know. I mean, like you say, that is a legal thing. My job is hitting golf balls, not sorting out lawsuits. So I wouldn't honestly know the direct answer. I think it's a combination, and obviously there's insurance policies the tournament organisers have. I don't know if the tour have a policy as well. I don't know the ins and outs of it but that is my guess.

 Q. Would that be a job for you, your agent or your caddie?
 RICHARD FINCH: What job? 

 Q. If you smacked somebody in the head with a club. 
 RICHARD FINCH: With a club? Well, it would certainly be my fault -- if I smacked someone in the head with a club? I don't know. Obviously depending on the scenario of how it came about. 

 Q. A spectator leaned over --
 RICHARD FINCH: Generally speaking with a clubbing scenario we would make sure that that was not going to happen, if you like. You know, accidents do happen at times, but I don't know the legal stance of how that all works out. Can't really answer that I'm afraid. 
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: I think this court is adjourned. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT