BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 25, 2009
Richard Finch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Thoughts on that?
 RICHARD FINCH: Nice to get off to a good start. I think everyone involved with the tournament has done a great job. Got thoroughly drenched in the Pro-Am and this morning was a little bit damp as well. The course has held up really well considering the greens. They are really amazingly quick, as well. That's the surprising part, especially the last few weeks, comes as a bit of a shock. Had a couple of weeks off, but the course is in good condition and I played quite nice and solid and steady. 
 I made a bogey on 16. Hit my tee shot a lot further than I thought, went in the bunker and from there went in the water and that was a bogey. Then I 3-putted during the sort of the slight delay we had straight after that. From there, it was a long putt and I misjudged it and thought it would be a little bit wet and it wasn't and it just sailed on past down the hill and nearly off the green. So that was a bit disappointing.

 Q. What was your first shot after the delay?
 RICHARD FINCH: The putt, the first putt from, I don't know, 30, 40 feet away sort of thing.

 Q. How fast past did you end up? 
 RICHARD FINCH: Ten, 11. Once it got past the hole, it was all away and nearly off the green. Then to bounce straight back the next hole and eagle there and birdie the next. It went real well and it was nice to finish with a birdie on 9, my last hole, as well.

 Q. Details? 
 RICHARD FINCH: Driver down the middle of the fairway, then a 4-iron just left the pin, a fraction past, about 22-foot putt, just over 20-foot. 
 Birdies, after that,7th, that was driver, 7-iron short of the pin and a nice long one about 35 foot. 
 Then 8, just missed birdie, left it on the edge which again was a good par 3 there. 
 Birdied the 9th, laid up in two with a 7-iron and then wedged on and holed a 17, 18-footer. 
 Certainly been frustrating the last couple of months. I feel like I've been doing a lot better than I've been getting results sort of thing. I missed four cuts in a row, a couple of them by a shot. I feel like I've been playing okay, but it's not quite been happening, so nice to get off to a good start this week.

 Q. Do you plan to make a habit of upstaging the higher World Ranking players? 
 RICHARD FINCH: I mean, generally speaking, the fields are quite strong in depth on the Tour, so any week, it seems like that. If you do well, it's a good quality field. 
 Yeah, I would like to keep making a habit of, it definitely. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT