MERCEDES-BENZ CHAMPIONSHIP IN COLOGNE
September 11, 2008
Richard Finch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT










 SCOTT CROCKETT: Richard, thanks, as always, for coming in and joining us, and many congratulations on a good opening day. Give us your thoughts. It was a great start, and you must be fairly pleased with the whole day.
 RICHARD FINCH: Yeah, delighted. Obviously the first time I've played this tournament and other than yesterday when I first played a practise round in the Pro-Am, but the first time here.
 So yeah, of course the course is in great condition, and at the start of the day if I could have shot something in the 60s I would have been pleased; and with a 66, delighted.
 SCOTT CROCKETT: What was the secret, 5-under after 7, that was some going.
 RICHARD FINCH: Yeah, nothing in particular that I can say really caused that to happen. But just basically again, the whole day, plan was to try to get the ball in the fairway off the tee, and when I approach shots try to give myself a chance, to give myself a chance for a birdie. It was difficult, there were quite a lot of flagsticks I tried not to aim at, just a few yards, to give myself a chance lot of room for error, and I managed to roll a few in. 
 SCOTT CROCKETT: What happened with the two dropped shots, 8 and 9; what happened there? 
 RICHARD FINCH: A long difficult, par 3. Paul McGinley hit 3-wood and Peter Lawrie hit driver. Just missed the green there. Chip didn't really come out very well, just on the green and then 2-putted. 
 Then 9, drive just off the fairway, couldn't reach the green in two, short of the green and pitched on and missed from about 15 foot or so.
 SCOTT CROCKETT: Three birdies to finish on the way in, what did you hit in? 
 RICHARD FINCH: 7-iron, right between 7 and 8 and to about 13 feet.
 The one par 5, 13, I hit a good drive and 5-wood left in the it back of the bunker on the grass and pitched onto four feet and hold it. That was the 13th. 
 The 15th, I hit it in the bunker, 9-iron out and wedge on. 

 Q. It's a far cry from Mallorca tournament last year when I remember how relieved you were at just making your card. It must be a bit of a whirlwind for you this season. 
 RICHARD FINCH: Totally, yeah, even this morning sort of thing, I was checking the scores out after the first stage of the qualifying for the Tour School that's going on at the minute, and so I've got a few friends and what-have-you playing in that. 
 So I'm having a look to see how that is going, and to be honest I did think to myself, I might have been looking at doing that this time last year. But I did get in with the event last year and to be in with a chance is great, and to be in with a good score is better still. 

 Q. Been a bit of a funny season all around, two wins, a third, a seventh, and the missed cuts; anything to explain the inconsistency?
 RICHARD FINCH: Not really. Before Ireland, I was really consistent, and then after Ireland, quite a lot of change has been going on. I wasn't playing that bad, but just seemed to keep missing the cuts a couple of times. 
 Yeah, I enjoyed the experiences in the major and the World Golf Championships, and Gleneagles, I played absolutely awful, full-stop and that was that one and last week I played really nicely but just didn't score.
 A lot of the scoring hasn't been great sort of since Ireland, but it's not been so horrific. I've had a couple of bad weeks but overall just not quite been firing, so that's golf, I suppose.

 Q. Was it difficult or is it difficult to adjust to being a sort of multiple winner and having different tournaments to get in for and different goals?
 RICHARD FINCH: Yeah, definitely. I try not to think of it as any different but you try and do the same things and all of a sudden there's slightly more demands on your time here or there. It's been nice and I've enjoyed the position I'm in, but then I'm also conscious of fact that as soon as you think golf is a great game and I'm doing all right here, before you know it, you're playing like an absolute idiot. 
 I've tried to keep working and keep improving, and be obviously my goals have changed as the season has gone on and new targets and working towards those now.

 Q. Can you let us in on that secret, what they are?
 RICHARD FINCH: It's not so much a secret but obviously targets regarding Order of Merit, trying to get as high up in that, try to qualify for the majors next year and things like that. Obviously improve my World Ranking position and try it and get in the Top-100. 
 But things like that come through playing good. You play good and it all sort of snowballs which I've found out from what I've done earlier, playing in different tournaments like this one, like the Bridgestone when I played in America and the majors and things. It's good, but it's obviously a little bit different, but that's not a problem by any means. 

 Q. You are like a handful of golfers this year who have won two tournaments or more, going by what you said and some of the questions that have been asked of you this afternoon is there a tinge of regret that you didn't sort of make that flight to Kentucky next week or not or does that come in the future? 
 RICHARD FINCH: No, I never thought -- after Ireland, it became a possibility and something I would never have thought of it until then and after that, some people pointed it out, and if I had played well in the tournaments after Ireland, at Wentworth and things like The European Open, but unfortunately I didn't. 
 So that would have -- if I would have it would have become a factor but to be honest it's never been a factor. I wish the lads all the best and hopefully further down the line and that's what I'd love to do but this year, it never became a goal or anything like that. I just never really felt I was in a position and I think I've got to play in many more majors and World Golf Championships before that. 
 SCOTT CROCKETT: Richard, thanks very much. Good luck tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT