ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 19, 2013
Richard Finch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How good was it in all this weather? 
RICHARD FINCH:   Yeah, it was a true British day I think, is the best way of putting it.   Yeah, constant squally showers and not the warmest, but I was delighted.   The front nine wasn't so clever, and certainly early on in the front nine, I would have taken anything under about eight the way I started.   But I hung on in there and then really played a really good back nine, so delighted with that.

Q.   What made the difference?   Application?   Determination?   Anger? 
RICHARD FINCH:   No, not really anger.   A bit of everything, I suppose, other than anger.   I was just trying to hang in there and not get angry.   That's the last thing I need to do.
It wasn't pretty very often but I managed to get the job done and maximised and got the most out of the day.

Q.   Were you conscious that other players were shooting low and moving right up the board?
RICHARD FINCH:   I was a little bit.   But at the end of the day, I've just got to play my own game, and the way I was playing, I was delighted to be scrambling pars‑‑ I had no idea what the leaders were doing but I can only worry about my game.   I just tried to knuckle down and fortunately for me on the back nine, there was some good results and got some nice birdies.

Q.   And seeing those leaderboards, you'll know you're in a fine position into the Sunday. 
RICHARD FINCH:   Yeah, not too far away.   There or thereabouts.   This course, there's a lot can happen around here.   It's a real risk/reward golf course.   You make a good shot, you've got a really good chance at a birdie because the greens are brilliant.   Miss the greens in the wrong place and you're doing well to hit the green on some occasions. 
It's not easy, but if you play it good, you can do good, so hopefully that's what I'll do tomorrow.

Q.   We spoke yesterday about your position in the wider scheme of things and trying to stay relaxed; does it get edgier knowing your close to achievement? 
RICHARD FINCH:   It did but I try to spin it around in a positive way thinking, I'd rather be in this position having a chance than missing the cut and be six, ten shots worse than I am at the minute. 
Whilst it's not ideal for the situation, the position I'm in is a good one, so I'm trying to think of it as a positive and I could save myself a lot of walking around PGA Catalunya if I get my finger out tomorrow and do a good round.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT