IRISH OPEN
May 17, 2008
Richard Finch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   RICHARD FINCH: There's still other people out there playing, so whatever happens, happens. I put myself in with an opportunity of winning and I'm pleased with that and hopefully try to have a good day tomorrow.  
  
  Q. What about finally just the experience here in Adare; are you enjoying it?   
 RICHARD FINCH: Yeah, loving it. I came last year and obviously it's warm weather this year and that's a nice change. It's a stunning place and having a nice time.   
  
  Q. Was the last day in New Zealand a nerve-wracking one that you can learn a lot from?  
 RICHARD FINCH: Yeah, because there was so much at stake. Winning the tournament was one thing, but what winning means, I think, as well, in terms of exemptions, qualifying, tournaments, things like that; it was that to deal with, as well as winning as such.  
 But you know, it's a good business and you've got to enjoy that and if you don't enjoy that, that's the fun of it. It's when you're at the other end of the leaderboard, at the bottom of the leaderboard, it's not a lot of fun.   
 Yeah, I put myself in with a chance and there's a lot of guys there or thereabouts with a chance.   
  
  Q. Normally we're taught about learning things when you don't succeed but you learn when you do, as well?   
 RICHARD FINCH: Yeah, definitely, obviously New Zealand was a strange situation and a three-shot lead and that group after nine holes and then it was a case of trying not to make mistakes, which if I had the opportunity again, I wouldn't view it like that really.  
 It's always easy in hindsight. Just see how you play, see how it goes and try and do the right thing at the right time. Sometimes you will and sometimes you won't.   
  
  Q. You've come a long way since the end of last season.   
 RICHARD FINCH: Yeah, that's right, yeah. It's nearly 18 months where I really struggled playing-wise, and you know, you keep trying and whatever but it's not a lot of fun and not overly enjoyable when you are struggling with your game.   
  
  Q. Are you a goal-setter once you had the win?  
 RICHARD FINCH: Yeah, my psychologist and I looked at goals and looking farther down the line and trying to keep the momentum going and progress. I had a year and a half where I sort of in a lot of ways went backwards. My first year on Tour was a great year and I had a good start to my second year but after that, it was not so clever.   
 Yeah, I think everyone has the down times and the lulls and that's what makes -- when you're playing better.  
  
  Q. What became the No. 1 target for this year?  
 RICHARD FINCH: I've got a few, really. I don't like to really go into too much detail about what they are, but I don't seem to like do short-term. More long-term and leading up to further down the line rather than thinking too short term and got to do this and got to do that. A lot of it is playing it by ear a bit.  
  
  Q. Majors and things like that?  
 RICHARD FINCH: Well, I've not played in a major yet and that's a target and when the qualifying coming up, that's something I'm looking at putting in a slightly higher priority. My priority the last couple years has been staying on The European Tour, not necessarily trying to play a major, so that's something now I'm looking towards. So I'd like to try and do something like that.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT