EMAAR-MGF INDIAN MASTERS
February 7, 2008
Richard Finch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Tell us about a good start?   
 RICHARD FINCH:  Delighted, really.  Played pretty nicely all day.  Obviously got off to a great start birdieing the first hole and then holing my second shot on the second for an eagle, so that was probably my best start ever to a round, 3-under after two.   
 Then found it a bit hard going after that.  Didn't really hole many, I think the next one-putt of the round came on the 13th hole which I birdied.  So yeah, took a while to get going and then was obviously pleased with the finishing holes, so all in all pleased with the start.   
  
  Q.  What did you do at the second for that eagle?   
 RICHARD FINCH:  2-iron off the tee down the middle and I had about 130 yards I think it was.  I was going to hit a pitching wedge, but just as I was about to take the club out of the bag, the wind blew, so I put that back out and got a 9-iron out.   
 I said, "that's got to be good," was words to my caddie in the air, and it landed where the green was, a little downslope and I couldn't quite see, saw it bounce and pop up and I thought it was probably short of the pin.  But then it was a nice surprise nearer to the green.   
  
  Q.  A few twists and turns to bite you.   
 RICHARD FINCH:  Yeah, I think everyone is going to have their fair share of bad shots and dealings with the bushes this week.  You though, I knew from playing the Pro-Am yesterday and I walked the course on Tuesday, I think the premium is on keeping it out of the bushes and on the short grass and giving yourself a chance with the approach to the green.   
 So yeah, I did that pretty well today, and if I continue to do that, should be in good result at the end of the week.   
  
  Q.  Kind of course you like?   
 RICHARD FINCH:  A lot different to what you normally play.  I think I hit the driver twice today, I was contemplating putting my driver in the bag and I did hit it twice.   
 But it's a different course.  I certainly don't dislike it, but it is unusual, is the best way I can put it.  Obviously hitting so many irons off tees and things like that, it's not what we're used to.  But I don't dislike it by any means.  I think the greens are quite a lot like what we've been used to in Abu Dhabi and Qatar with the grain on them, and they are in good condition, a lot of slopes on them.  And certainly if you hit it on the right level of the green, a lot of the green have different sort of putters and you can have a chance for a birdie.   
  
  Q.  Are the greens like anything in Hunter Side (ph)?   
 RICHARD FINCH:  Not much around here, the wildlife is not quite the same.  It really is a walk of life, there's dogs and all sorts of wildlife around.  It's quite amazing.  But I just tried to focus on the golf and what-have-you, and hopefully not get too near the wild life.   
  
  Q.  You stayed focus on the golf, but do you enjoy that, does it break up the round a little just to look around and see what there?   
 RICHARD FINCH:  I don't know, obviously when I'm playing -- if I was having a social/friendly game, I would probably be more into the things that are going on around and about.   
 Really it's business when I'm at a tournament, so I try not to really -- you do see it and what have you and had a good laugh on the way around with David Howell and things.  But in terms of studying too much of what's happening around, I don't really notice that much to be honest.   
  
  Q.  I'm sure you haven't had that much time to look around in Delhi, but what are your impressions so far?   
 RICHARD FINCH:  I had a trip to -- I think it's the Indian gaya (ph) I went to yesterday for an interview with European Tour Weekly and played a little bit of cricket with the locals and saw things for sale and what-have-you, it really is an eye-opener, it's a different world really, one that I think you've got to see it to believe it so I enjoyed that, had a trip out yesterday after the Pro-Am.   
  
  Q.  How was the cricket?   
 RICHARD FINCH:  I got ball the first ball.  Got my eye in after that, I was a bit better after that.  I managed to hit a few possible sixes, shall we say.  There was no boundary but in my eyes, it was sixes.  That was good, but yeah, first ball was a bit embarrassing.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT