PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 13, 2012
Richard Finch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Part of a good three days?
RICHARD FINCH:   Yeah, delighted, tough day sort of thing really with the wind gusting and fairly strong at times, slightly changing directions, so it keeps you on your toes.   Pleased overall.   Delighted to go around in 66 and to slightly move up on the leaderboard.   Hopefully slightly move up a bit, remains to be seen I suppose.   Yeah, delighted, couldn't ask for much more.   Gave myself quite a few chances and managed to convert one or two and birdies on the fives, which is good. 
All depends how the guys leading finish off the round, there are certainly some birdies available with good shots, but you don't have to do a whole lot wrong and you can soon make bogeys.   There's some thick rough in place around the greens and the par3s aren't easy.   We'll have to see. 

Q.   You mentioned the wind, it seems entirely different somehow this afternoon, it's twist and turn‑‑
RICHARD FINCH:   Just moving slightly, especially when you have a crosswind, the greens are fairly firm, as well, difficult on a couple of the par3s trying to stop the ball on the green.   Land it on the front and then it was trying to throw the anchor onto stop it.   Didn't really succeed to be honest but it's the same for everyone so you have to make the best of it. 

Q.   Nice to be involved with Mark Foster? 
RICHARD FINCH:   Yeah, we are good friends.   We have played a couple of times the last few years at Gleneagles in the third round, and once in the fourth round and both times, we had been going well and both had absolute shockers.   So we were a bit apprehensive today; that we are doomed every time we play together, we seem to have a shocker.   Managed to putt that to bed. 

Q.   A double take when you saw each other on the first tee?
RICHARD FINCH:   Beforehand we were chatting with the guy who looks after all the travel and he had the same outfit on, as well, so we looked like a Pro‑Am team.   Yeah, just one of those things but it was all good fun. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT