VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
May 18, 2012
Richard Finch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Relieved to be through? 
RICHARD FINCH:   Yeah, pleasant surprise.   Obviously Martin being the player he is, I didn't expect that.   A few testing greens‑‑ I almost felt like giving it to him to be honest.   The greens are brilliant, don't get me wrong but with the wind blowing and gusting like it is, it's not easy.   So put it down to one of those things.
It was a good game, and never really too much in it.   Slightly surprised that I've gone through. 

Q.   How do you feel about your own play? 
RICHARD FINCH:   On the whole pretty good, yeah.   A bit disappointed the last hole wasn't very good, lost a lot of iron shots coming in, which made it difficult to make a par at the last there but apart from that hit I hit some really good shots and I was pleased with it.   A couple of holes where I thought where I made an error and spun it back into the water and another one, an unbelievable shot to the pin and 3‑putted.   But just tried to keep there or thereabouts. 

Q.   This morning you had a tough match, how was that? 
RICHARD FINCH:   This morning was brutal.   He obviously played yesterday, so got into competitive mode.   I was delighted how I played this morning.   Played nine holes yesterday, played awful.   Only dropped one shot this morning and made at least four birdies I think, so that was tough. 
But the end in match play, just have to try to beat who you're playing against. 

Q.   In the afternoon you played Martin Kaymer, World Ranking No.9, a very tight match which was won on the 18th.   Some thoughts on that match? 
RICHARD FINCH:   It was close all the way really.   I was up early on and then he won three holes in a row and got a couple up on me, and you know, we were both battling away.   It was tough to hole any putts.   Tough to get close to the holes with the wind.   Tough to hole the putts with the slopes and the speed of the greens and the wind, as well.   So it wasn't a birdie fest as such, but came out on top in the end.

Q.   How happy are you going into the weekend, Saturday? 
RICHARD FINCH:   Yeah, looking forward to it.   Beyond expectations so far, so everything for me is a bonus, and try and play as well as I can tomorrow and see where it takes me. 

Q.   You'll play against Graeme McDowell tomorrow; some thoughts on him?
RICHARD FINCH:   Every match is tough.   Obviously he's the U.S. Open Champion and he's a great player, and it will be a tough match.   But that goes for every guy at the group stage, there is no easy match in.   If I play well, I'll have a chance. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT