COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
February 2, 2012
Richard Finch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Tied for third.   How good a score is that in these conditions?
RICHARD FINCH:   Yeah, I'm pleased overall.   3‑under par is a good score in that wind. 
A little bit disappointed to close with a couple of bogeys on the 8th and the 9th to finish, but at the end of the day 3‑under par is a good score and it leaves me in good position going into the last three rounds.

Q.   Did you have any moments when it wasn't windy out there?   The first couple holes maybe?
RICHARD FINCH:   Yeah, it gradually built up.   I was on the range warming up, and I think a lot of us couldn't believe what was happening, because obviously the forecast was pretty bad, and it was dead still and calm really, and that was like, you know, is this what's going on here? 
So that took us a little bit by surprise, but yeah, right from the word go really, the first hole which I played which was 10 was a little bit downwind, and then gradually as time progressed it picked up and got stronger and stronger, so yeah, being I was off in the morning, obviously later in the morning, you would think it would be rough very early, probably got the best of it, but that's the way it goes.

Q.   We're used to all sorts of weather here in Doha, but I think it's the crosswinds that are trickiest probably. 
RICHARD FINCH:   Yeah, definitely.   Even sometimes downwind can be tricky.   If you can't line up on the green when the pin is towards the front, you're almost down there thinking‑‑ you know, you saw the shot I think quite early on in the round on the 12 back tee shot into the rough, and you know, had to land it on the green to get it over sort of a rock face, and there was no way I was ever going to get it anywhere near the hole.   So you just gotta accept that and try and think your way around the best you can and try and leave yourself shots into the wind if you can around the greens, whether they be putts in or chips in or whatever so that you've got a realistic chance of getting close to the hole.

Q.   It isn't quite so obvious the effects on the greens.   It is to you, but for us watching.   What's it like when the wind buffers you?
RICHARD FINCH:   Yeah.   It's just keeping your balance and your rhythm, you know.   You're judging your line on judging the grain of the grass and judging the slope and then you've got the wind as well.   At the minute that's the biggest factor.   So it's difficult to judge and work it all out, but you just gotta do the best you can, and there will be times when you can hit good putts and they'll miss and there was a few times today when I hit putts that I didn't think were very good and they went in, so that was good.

Q.   Okay.   So as long as the leader finishes the morning session, are we going to get through the afternoon?   It's pretty steady at the moment, isn't it?
RICHARD FINCH:   Yeah.   I don't know if it's getting too much worse.   There's a balancing act when it's really windy or when it's unplayable.   The tournament people are well experienced in dealing with where the line is I'm sure they'll make the call, but hopefully it'll all get played today. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT