ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 27, 2012
Richard Finch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Thoughts on the day?
RICHARD FINCH:   Tough, as everyone will say it's a tough, demanding golf course and it's difficult to make birdies.   Just keep giving myself chances. 
Didn't quite hole as many putts as I would have liked to have done but felt like I started more of the putts where I wanted to and that's just the way it goes.   A little bit disappointed not to birdie any of the par 5s because they are the only chance you do get; if you do get the ball in play, two shots, you go in with a short iron. 
So would have been nice with a couple of birdies on the par 5s maybe.   But overall in a good position, couple back and looking forward to the weekend.

Q.   That does equate to a good score around here, doesn't it. 
RICHARD FINCH:   Yeah, it's just tough.   You just cannot‑‑ there's no letup at all.   You've got to‑‑ even the so‑called easier birdieable holes that you think you've got a chance on, you missed the fairway and all of a sudden it's a scramble for a par. 
So, yeah, I've played‑‑ happy how I've hit the ball so far.   Just try to keep giving myself a chance and it's not easy to get near the hole and I've just accepted that and trying to give myself slightly longer putts, but hopefully a few will drop over the weekend.

Q.   Memory serves that you've played well here in the past and had opportunities?
RICHARD FINCH:   I think I finished fourth a couple years ago here.   So yeah, it's not ideally a course I would say that suits me.   I'm not one of the longest hitters out here and a few of the par 5s, some of the other holes, a long booming drive will certainly help. 
The par 5s are all out of range for me in two shots.   So I just have to plan my route slightly differently.   The end of the day the course is the same for everyone and just have to do the best I can. 

Q.   You got off to a fast start and you're actually in decent shape. 
RICHARD FINCH:   Yeah, I had those couple of weeks in South Africa, I suppose I come in here a little bit more match‑fit, shall we say, rather than a few of the guys who have had a few good weeks off and Christmas.   But I was boarding airplane on New Year's Day morning, so I've done a few weeks already.

Q.   That was hard, wasn't it? 
RICHARD FINCH:   Not really, no.   Wasn't too bad.   After Christmas, I've had enough nights out and enough alcohol to last me, so it was an early night on NewYear'sEve and that's not the end of the world. 

Q.   Have to ask if you've avoided any water hazards?
RICHARD FINCH:   Yes, I've managed to.   I've not been in the hotel in question since, so, yeah, I've managed to not fall in anymore water recently. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT