COSIDA CONFERENCE CALL
October 9, 2018
Laurie Bollig
Kevin Lanke
Craig Hicks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
LAURIE BOLLIG: Hi, everyone.  Thanks for attending today's Teachable Tuesday webinar.  I'm Laurie Bollig, the director of membership engagement for CoSIDA.  I would like to thank two sponsors today, Capital One, who is a year-long sponsor of our continuing education program, and then also Google Cloud who is our title sponsor for the Academic All-America program.   
So today, also, I will -- well, I will thank -- he's not a panelist, but I would like to thank Mark Beckenbach who is the chair of the Academic All-America Core Program Committee, and joining us today to talk about best practices for nominating and voting for Academic All-America, our Vice Chair Kevin Lanke from Rose-Hulman, and Operations Director Craig Hicks from Denison.   
So I will take the first few slides, and then I will hand it off to those two gentle men, so that they can talk about, get into the real meat and potatoes of the program.   
So today, you'll notice that I've got the logos of all of our participants, well, all of our major participants.  We do have some other schools that are not affiliated with those organizations, but as you'll see, we've got an NAIA division this year, and we'll talk a little bit more about that later.  Then another division, which will encompass two-year colleges, Canadian institutions, et cetera.   
So if we could advance the slide.  Our agenda for today will be really brief, and we will certainly have time for questions.  So if you do have a question, please put that in the chat box, and it will be forwarded to one of the panelists.  So we'll talk a little bit about why the program is important.  Make sure you are ready for when nominations begin.  There will be a pretty quick tutorial on how to nominate and how to vote.  But also some information on who to nominate and who to vote for, and then questions, really, at any time.   
If you've heard me talk about the Academic All-America program before, you have heard me mention many, many times that this is CoSIDA's signature program.  And student-athletes routinely say this is the most important award they received during their college career academically and athletically.   
So to be that significant, I think our members have a great privilege of participating in this program.  So one thing that as we've all heard that most student-athletes don't go pro after they graduate.  Well, this is an award that helps distinguish them when they go on to their careers after graduation.  It's important.  It's respected.  It is longstanding, and it's the only Academic All-America program of its type.   
So this year, as most of you know, nominations for the fall sports men's soccer and women's soccer specifically open next Tuesday at noon eastern time.  We'll also follow that the next week with women's volleyball and football.  Then in the winter, men's basketball, women's basketball, that will be sometime in late January that we'll open nominations for that.  And then the spring sports, a plethora of spring sports, baseball, softball, men's at large, women's at large, men's track and field cross country, and women's track and field and cross country, and those nominations begin in late April.   
So something to talk about, as I mentioned before, is we will have a new division or divisions.  And I say that because it is impossible right now to know whether that will be one division of two-year colleges and Canadian institutions that are not affiliated with the NAIA or the NCAA.   
We also have the NCCAA schools and the U.S. CAA schools that are not affiliated with the NCAA, or the NAIA.  Whether we have one program or two in the fall -- I'm sorry, in the spring, will be determined by how many nominations we get from those groups.   
So, very important to note that if you are a two-year college member or if you're a can a Canadian institution that does not have affiliation with the NCAA or the NAIA, you are not going to be nominating your student-athletes until the spring.   
So when we open soccer, if you are a two-year program with a soccer program, please don't nominate.  The system is set up to say you can't nomination, but it's important to know that your nomination for all sports will come in the spring.  We will definitely have a better idea of what that's going to look like as we begin to formulate how many nominations are needed and that sort of thing.   
So, certainly stay tuned.  Ask any questions if you are in those constituencies, please contact me or Kevin or Mark or Craig, and we can advise you as to what the plan is for the spring.   
So a few things that we ask you to do.  Well, one that you have to do, and a couple other things that we ask you to do, is, as we all know, nominating and voting for Academic All-America and All-District, those are privileges of being a CoSIDA member.   
So your dues have to be renewed before that -- before the end of the nomination periods.  So I will just tell you that next Monday is the last day of regular priced dues.  Then October 16th begins a late fee being added.  So make sure your dues are up to date.   
When I say up to date, if you have given your business office an invoice and they've sent a check, I'm just going to tell you sometimes checks don't make it to us.  We have to have the payment in hand before you will be allowed to nominate or vote.   
So if you say, hey, my business office said the check was mailed two weeks ago, if we don't have it, we cannot allow you to nominate.   
So just checkup on that.  Check with me.  Check with Wilson to see if we've received it.  We will do everything we can to get you legal to vote and nominate next week.   
So sometimes in an emergency situation, we ask that you pay your dues with a credit card and we'll tear up the check when it arrives.  So just look at your dues, make sure they're where they need to be, and contact CoSIDA staff if you have any questions.   
The master calendar for all dates or nomination periods opening, submissions of updated statistics, voting periods for district, national, every date that can be associated with this program is on a master calendar on CoSIDA.com.   
I would suggest printing that PDF out, getting those dates on your calendar, setting reminders.  CoSIDA sends emails, text messages, we post on social media.  We have stories on CoSIDA.com.  Everything is covered on all CoSIDA communication vehicle.  When the nomination period opens, when there is an update period, and when there is a voting update and close.   
So I do hear from people, hey, I didn't get the email.  Well, email is one way you're going to get notified, but you're going to be notified six ways to Sunday.  So even if you didn't get the email, you're still expected to know, and that master calendar is right there for you.  So please print that out.  Set the reminders and be on the lookout for the information whenever those dates approach.   
Then, of course, all the time, check your spam folders.  Add the CoSIDA email address if you ca, and that might take care of it.  But I know universities have very strong firewalls, so if we can help you in any way to get that taken care of, then please contact us.   
Kevin, Craig?  Craig.   
CRAIG HICKS: Hi everybody, Craig Hicks from Denison University in Granville, Ohio.  I'm going to take you through the nominating portion of this.  We're going to kind of start at the beginning, and the place that you're going to be for nominating, voting, whatever it may be is CoSIDA.com/awards.  Okay.  That's the page that you're seeing right below.   
So whenever you log in with your CoSIDA log ins, you're going to see this.  So let's say you were to click, again, I'm covering nominating in this portion.  Kevin is going to take the voting.  So if you were to click on nominating, go into next slide.  We'll show you what your dashboard is going to look like.   
That's right here.  So this is where you're going to see what you've got already started, and how many nominations that you have complete.  So you may have something sitting there that has not been finished that you can go back to.  But all of the information is going to be right there for you.   
So whenever you're, again, whenever you're starting your nominations, one thing that I would recommend, and you can go to the next slide, and that talks a little bit about the nomination process.  I know for me in doing this, and for most of you, that the day can be very busy.  We have a lot of people coming in and out of our offices, we have people stopping by just to ask quick questions, we're getting email all the time.   
So anytime I'm doing my nominations, in order to do them well and really the most efficiently, I try to do them either early in the morning or later in the afternoon, after our coaches have gone off to practice, kind of the after 3 o'clock thing.  That just seems to work better for me.   
I know that probably -- I'm not the only one who has probably started a nomination, and then had gotten distracted or had to go down the hall to something, come back, and maybe in the old system you got timed out, something like that would happen.  That doesn't happen now, thankfully.  But just I think to put your most focus so you're not going to make a mistake, and we're going to talk about some of these things in the nomination, to limit mistakes, trying to do them either early in the morning, at night or when you're at home, that may be a good thing for you.   
So whenever you're going through this, the nomination process, you want to make sure, first of all, that that is you.  That you're logged in as yourself.  That it's the correct school.  That you're in the correct district, correct division.  If you're not sure of your district, you can go to CoSIDA.com, and just click on the Academic All-America Committee listing, and that will show your state and where you are supposed to be.  So, if I find Ohio, I know I'm in that district.   
If you have questions, you can always email your district coordinator as well.  So having that link and that committee listing in front of you or book marked is a good idea.   
Again, trying to limit the mistakes is one of the biggest things.  What are the biggest mistakes that we see in nominating?  Obviously, listing the wrong gender is probably numero uno.   
So, I think I'm nominating for men's soccer.  I've got a male going, but I accidentally click the drop down for women's soccer, you don't catch it, that goes through.  We hope that our coordinators will catch that, but they may not.  So we don't want to have that happen, and that starts with you, the nominator.  Okay.   
So I think we're through most of that now.  Going down through positions, gender, sport, and then mailing address, okay.   
Now some of your must-haves for nominating.  You must be a starter or an important reserve with legitimate athletic credentials.  And I understand that that does leave things open to discussion, but, again, this person that you are nominating should have an impact on the team.   
They should be in a regular rotation.  They should be playing.  They don't necessarily have to be a starter, but that's what we mean by important reserve.  Okay.  With legitimate credentials.  They should have participated in at least 50% of the team's games, so, unfortunately, if an injury takes them out, they're not going to be eligible.  They need to be playing.   
Grade point average, 3.30 is very important.  We want to go out to that one-hundredth.  Whenever we see a nomination that comes through that may be listed as 3.4, well, we're probably going to have to call and verify and check on that as a coordinator of a district.  We want to have those out to the hundredths.   
If it's 3.30, you can expect a call to your person whoever you list on your nomination if it's your registrar or someone in your department that handles the compliance, okay.  So that is something that can't be rounded up.  That needs to be out to the hundredth point.   
They must have reached sophomore academic eligibility at your institution.  So true fresh men, red-shirt fresh men, and transfers are not eligible.  They must have completed one calendar year at your institution.  So if they come in in the spring semester, and then they're playing for you in the fall, that's not enough.  They will need to be there one year, okay.   
Point number five:  Completed nominations must be submitted by the deadlines.  Late nominations are not accepted.  There are deadlines for a reason.  Once those deadlines hit, a lot of work has to happen for us to get these things turned around.  So that is why those deadlines are there.  That's why we hit you with so many emails and we're on Twitter and doing all of that to make sure you know those deadlines.   
So I would strongly suggest taking a look at the calendar on the CoSIDA page, looking at the deadlines for each of the sports, putting them in your calendar now.  Just so that does not get missed.  Because we know we're all busy and things can get missed, okay.   
All right.  This is a good one because we do hear this a lot.  Now, who should I nominate for academic All-America?  Some schools and at different times per sport, you're in a position where I may have five or six people or more that we could nominate, that all qualify, that all play, that are all over the 3.30 requirement.  So what do we do?  Who do we nominate?   
These are conversations that have to happen probably on every campus.  They should probably involve your coach, and they should maybe involve your staff, if you've got assistants, and you can sit around and decide that on your own.  Is it always best to nominate everyone who meets the minimum requirements?  Probably not.  Again, that's up to you.  But taking the strongest is probably the best way to get your people nominated.   
We had a suggestion emailed to us by Ken Johnson at MIT.  We know MIT is a great school.  They have a lot of academic All-Americans.  And he talked about one thing that they do is they ask for resumes.  Once they decide -- once they see the People that do qualify, they ask for resumes from those students, and then they judge them that way and decide who they're going to put forward that way.   
At Denison, there are times when we have many, many people, especially in the at-large section that are qualified, certainly qualified.  So we have to make some tough decisions.  We always meet with our coaches, we take a look at closely at their student-athlete questionnaires where they list all of their extracurriculars, and we touch base with them and then we've got to decide and make those decisions.   
At Denison, that happens between myself and the coaches typically.  But I do agree with Ken's recommendation that the resume idea.  Again, that can be a little tough for fresh men sometimes, sophomores, juniors obviously by the time they're juniors and seniors they'll have resumes, but the sophomores may not quite have those yet.  But I like that suggestion.  So I thank Ken for giving that to us.   
I hope that helps a little bit explain some of the best chances of being selected.  Again, we can't tell you who to nominate or what to do.  If you've got people that qualify, they can certainly be nominated, but with watering down the balance on the with six, seven names, in my history, isn't the best way to go.   
Now, if your student-athlete is selected to the academic all district team you'll be notified.  And one thing that does get forgotten at times because of the short turn around is to nominate -- not only nominate, jump in after they win the all district, but update their statistics.   
That's something in the past that our district coordinators did a little bit of, and we've really tried to steer them away from doing that now, because that's hours of their time that they should not have to do.  That should be on you as the SID to get in there and update their information as they move forward to the academic All-America ballot.   
So, Laurie.  I think your mic's off.   
LAURIE BOLLIG: Yes, it was off.  Sorry about that.  I wanted to throw a couple different things in.  First of all, going back to the district.  So districts for Academic All-America are slightly different than districts -- than your CoSIDA district.  So, especially in Division Two, there is a district breakdown for schools that involve sports other than football, and then there is an entirely different district alignment for football for Division Two.   
So those maps, I believe, are on CoSIDA.com.  If not, we'll get them on.  Also, I did want to throw in that resume idea.  I thought that was really great.   
And Craig, you explained a great use of it.  But another use is when you as an SID is deciding who -- what information to include on a nomination, I would think that those resumes would be pretty updated.  And what's important to that student-athlete would be some of the good things to have up high on those bullet points, and would include everything that they've done.   
So not only can you use it to weed out potential people that you might not nominate, you can also use it to have the most updated information about that student-athlete as possible.   
CRAIG HICKS: Yeah, that's a really good point, Laurie, because I know like most of you we collect our student-athlete information in the fall, so by the time it gets around to spring, that's why we're always trying to do our due diligence to find out if those baseball players have added any organizations that they're involved in, if they've been a part of any new honoraries, possibly.  So I like the resume idea a lot.   
KEVIN LANKE: I agree with you, Craig.  I'm Kevin Lanke of Rose-Hulman, and I'm here to talk about the voting process.  I want to add two things about nominations that I feel like are really important when you're evaluating nominations.  One, when you get to the men's and women's at-large contest in the spring, you're actually restricted to a maximum of four votes per gender.  So when you get to that point, you'll need to limit your ballot to four nominees for the at-large, those are all the different contests that don't have their own individual contest.   
The other one I would point out, a lot of times when you're trying to evaluate numbers to nominate, look at whether or not it's a position sport.  So if you have offensive linemen, running backs, quarterbacks, and they all hit the criteria, those are all different contests versus a basketball contest where you're voting for five.   
So putting five or six people on the ballot may not be productive.  So sometimes positional contests you'll want to nominate more than non-positional contests just because of the way they're handled.  I thank Craig and Laurie for their comments as well.   
I'm here to talk about the voting part.  One thing we talk about a lot is nominations.  We don't talk as much about voting.  One of the things that's really critical in this process is to follow through and vote.  You've taken the time to nominate.  Please take the time to vote.  Even if you didn't nominate someone, you could help the schools in your conference with familiarity of which student-athletes are their top by voting.  So the voting aspect is very important.   
So when you first log on, you'll see the screen below.  You'll have the division, the district, the affiliation of record, and then if everything is correct, you'd check that box.  Again, immediately, if you notice errors there, just like you did when you nominated, you'll want to contact Laurie and the CoSIDA staff.   
The voting module.  So this is what your voting module will look like.  Your first screen is a table of candidates for your district.  And those are all sortable.  So if you wanted to click the GPA tab, the major tab, you wanted the eligibility to get all your seniors up top, you can do that.  You can actually look at this information in three different ways.   
You can view each candidate separately by clicking view.  So if you look at that screen shot, there is an add to ballot and view.  When you want to vote for someone, you'll want to click add to ballot next to their name.   
When you want to look at their information, you can click view.  There is also that top part above I am not participating in this ballot, it says download all nominations to PDF or Excel.  So if you want to download in PDF, you can get each candidate into one document, so it will download your 60, 70 candidates into one PDF.  That will limit each candidate to one full page, so if you print that, you may end up with a 70-page document, but at least you'll have all the PDF.  S there is also an Excel spreadsheet which you can sort all the different columns and we'll talk about that in just a minute.   
The review of the on-screen information.  So when you click the view button, you will actually get this window.  It will have the name, the category, your GPA, win/loss record, all their stats and accomplishments.  Their accomplishments are those five bullet points of 100 characters per bullet point.  This screen opens up in a new window, and you can go back to the list of athletes by going back to the previous window.   
So you can also review by PDF.  This is a way that I tend to use is the PDF function, where you can take a look at all the information on one page about a nominee.  You can print those PDFs, but your football contest may have a hundred nominees per district, you're going to printout a hundred pages of PDFs.   
What I like to do is open them up one at tie time, and maybe I'll make note of which ones I thought were really strong candidates and why.  So in this case, I might write Sanborn, and I might write their points per game, and I might write one bullet point and their GPA.  Whatever it was that made me think they're a really strong candidate.   
The review by itself spreadsheet is a really nice way that the new system has helped voting.  The best thing about the new academic system is not only is it easier to nominate, this voting process makes your time much easier when you're looking through it.  Now, don't fall into the fact of just sorting by GPA, looking for some stats and being done.  There are bullet points off to the right of this slide that you can use to read and evaluate your candidates.  It's all the stuff that's on the PDF.   
So each one of these Excel files is sortable.  So if you want to sort by GPA, you click the undergraduate GPA button.  If it's football and quarterbacks and you want to know passing yards, you can sort bypassing yards.  You can sort by name, you can sort by institution, you can sort by academic year to bring all your grad students and seniors up front.   
It's a very versatile sheet that will help you narrow it down quickly.  I use this Excel spreadsheet a lot to help me get an initial view of maybe if it's the basketball contest, may be based on the GPA and the stats and team's record, I can usually narrow it down to 10 fairly easily.   
Now we're only voting for five.  So now I'll look at the additional information to take that number from ten to five.  But definitely click all of those columns, because they're searchable and sortable by whatever you want them to be done by.   
The other thing about those spreadsheets.  Like we said, you can download those to your computer, view them on your computer screen.  There are extra columns that you might not consider very important.  It might be games, games started, and you might not care as much about turnovers, for example.  You can delete all the columns that you're not interested in.  You can sort by whatever sort of GPA.   
Just like Excel, you can sort by GPA and then points per game.  You can use multiple sorts if you're really familiar with Excel.  That also allows you to highlight your top collections or your selections.  You can also just cut from the document, and then you know who your five that you're going to vote for are.  Then when you return to the voting module, you'll just click add to ballot for each of the individuals that you choose to select.   
So then, when you cast your ballot and hit the add to ballot button, all the different individuals come up in this particular format.  So if you choose too few, you'll get an error message.  In the basketball contest, for example, you vote for five.  So you can't vote for six, and it won't let you submit with four either.  You have to vote for five.   
So then you can hit save to save your work, or when you're ready to vote and submit, you'll hit save and next.   
Saving these votes does not cast your ballot.  You have to go along the process, and the next stage of the process is to hit save and next.   
So then when you get to the very, very end, that button right in the middle will say save, or save and submit.  Your ballot will not count until you hit the save and submit button.  So that is a critical thing to do.  Also the voting period is one week.  So if you saved your work and don't click save and submit, it will not take your nomination until you hit that save and submit button, but it will be open for one week.   
The deadline is promptly at 9:00 p.m. that is also the case in nominations as well.  So when you see that those nominations are at 9:00 p.m. on Tuesday, you have to be done voting by then, and you have to be done nominating by then, and have hit your submit button.  Not just your save button, but your submit button, on both nominations and votes for them to count.   
Laurie, you want to chime in?   
LAURIE BOLLIG: Yeah, I wanted to go back to whenever you pick your -- the prescribed number of student-athletes that you need to advance.  In that regard, none of those votes -- those student-athletes don't have to be put in any order.  You need five.  You put five.  Doesn't matter who you put first or last.  However, that changes when it's time to select the Academic All-Americas of the year.   
So we ask for three selections, and that's another reason that spreadsheet is so handy.  If you're looking at it, and you highlight yellow for the ones you're going to pick for the Academic All-District or Academic All-America team, but maybe you highlight in blue the ones that are the top three.  Those three need to be submitted one through -- in rank order, one through three.   
So the first student-athlete you submit gets the most points, and the back end of the system, to be able to determine who will actually be the winner of that distinction.   
So, again, no ranking necessary for all the other votes, all the other selections, but ranked one through three with one being the top, your top selection, and three being your third is important for the Academic All-America piece of this.   
KEVIN LANKE: That is correct.  So on both the District and Academic All-America, just to emphasize what Laurie's saying, the rank order does not matter until you get to Academic All-America of the year, then the rank order matters greatly.   
So now the next question is how should I vote?  How do I pick who I think the best Academic All-Americans are?  And everyone has their own different ways of evaluating this.  That is part of the beauty of it, and it's why the student-athletes value this so much, because it's not just a cut and dry I have a GPA.   
So therefore I'm on the Academic All-America team.  You have to be selected and voted if.  So what we try to look for as a committee, we're hoping that this Academic All-America team is the best combination of athletic and academic success.  How much weight do I give to community service and leadership?  That's really up to you.  But at the end of the day, we're trying to look for a team that shows great academics along with athletic accomplishment.   
So a 4.0 GPA that scores one point a game in basketball is probably not what the committee would view as a better Academic All-America vote than a 3.5 GPA that gets 18 points a game.   
So the question is, when you get into the middle, who do you vote for?  That's always a challenge, and that's why we love this so much.  As part of your CoSIDA membership, you now get to vote on both the Academic All-District, and the Academic All-America teams in your division.   
So you have a lot of power to help determine these teams.  But you want to weigh both of these.  Don't just view GPA.  Sort it by GPA and vote for the top 10 GPAs that are 4.0 and 3.99, we're looking for the combination of the two.  Look at what they've done statistically in their sport, if it's volleyball, it's kills, it's digs, it's assists, whatever you value as a voter to show their ability, but then also combine with the GPA.   
Other Academic All-District or All-America awards could be taken in there as well.  I tend to.  A lot of times a good example of this is in track and field our voting takes place before the outdoor national championships in some of the divisions.  So what they did last year may be the only criteria you have to go with.   
You also don't want to take somebody that was maybe an All-American last year, the coach changed and now they get two points a game.  That could be a whole different discussion.   
So take both of those into account, because the bottom line is we're trying to recognize the most outstanding student-athletes in college sports as a combination of athletic and academic success.   
Again, beauty of this program is you'll vote differently than I do.  But as long as we're looking at those combined factors, we know we're going to get great teams.  And as a committee, we want great teams.   
If you have any questions along the way.  Mark Beckenbach is the coordinator of the internal operation for this program.  You can contact Mark, you can contact Craig Hicks at Denison you who you saw earlier, you can contact myself, and you can contact Laurie with assistance on the processes and procedures.  We're certainly here to help, especially if you're a new SID reaching out.   
The first time you're voting and you've never nominated for this, I'm sure any of us on this committee would certainly be willing to help if you have questions while you're going through the nominating process.  There is also a best practices document on CoSIDA.com.  Your CoSIDA digest from earlier this fall had an article about these same topics.  Take a look at that article, and we also did summarize that article in the best practices document that's online at CoSIDA.com.   
If you have any questions for us, please type them into the chat box, and we'll have a chance to go ahead and discuss those.  Do you want to add anything before I look at questions?   
LAURIE BOLLIG: Yeah, I'm going to add, first of all, we're appreciative of everybody that took time this afternoon to listen to this webinar.  There will be an on-demand version of it and a transcript available later this afternoon on CoSIDA Connect.  So if we went too fast or if you have a peer who may have had to miss this, you can certainly direct them to CoSIDA Connect for the recording and the transcript of the webinar.   
KEVIN LANKE: The first question we have is a great question and a common question that we get.  The question is:  What are some of the best practices for the five bullet points?   
And Craig, since you were talking about the nomination process, I'll let you start with that.  If you've got a hundred, you've got five bullet points that are a hundred characters a piece, how do you maximize your value of those bullet points?   
CRAIG HICKS: Again, you have to judge them.  You've got them laid out in front of you, and I'm always going to try to put what I feel is the most important at the front.  So maybe that person was the Player of the Year in the conference, maybe that person was an Academic All-American in the previous year.  I feel like that to me is something that I try to get right up there in the front.  I want to put those things there.   
I understand especially that maybe they're not going to get through the five bullet points.  I hope that you would as a nominator, as a voter.  But as a nominator, we've got to put those most important things at the top, and that is going to be subjective for everybody.  But there is a way to work down through those things when you have it laid out on paper beforehand.  That's probably a pretty good way to go about it if you need to.   
There are times when you may have ten things that you would like to list.  But because of those bullet points, you've got to whittle that down to five and make those decisions.   
KEVIN LANKE: I completely agree with that.  What I'd like to add is as a nominator you think I want to get all this stuff on the ballot.  Then what happens when you go to vote?  There's a hundred people on that ballot, and you as a voter, sometimes even though we'd like to read all five points on every single person, there are times I'm going to look through the first two bullet points, and if you haven't made your case as to why you're really strong in those first two bullet points, I may not get to three, four and five.   
So like Craig says, give me your best shot with point one.  What is the one thing I've got to know about your kid?  What is the second thing I've got to know about your kid?  Because a number of the nominators and voters aren't going to make it past that second or third bullet point.   
CRAIG HICKS: Yeah, I like what you said.  Think of it as though you're sitting there voting as you're doing the nomination.  Think about that, okay, because we all vote.  You nominate.  Think about it as a voter as you're doing your nominations, and you'll get the most out of it.   
LAURIE BOLLIG: I would just add that use your bullet points wisely, because you don't want to repeat things that have already been up higher in your nomination.  So there is no need to put how many games your student-athlete has started or how many points they're averaging or what their major is, or how they've got three majors.  That's all information you've already inputted.  So you're basically wasting your space if you repeat that information.   
KEVIN LANKE: If you have any other questions, go ahead and send them in right now.  We still have a little bit of time to take those.  The other thing I would point out, one effective use in those five bullet points sometimes can be to talk about team success.   
So right now our women's basketball team, for example, is on a 35-game home winning streak.  Well, that might be a point, if you don't have anything else to talk about on your student-athlete, let's talk about that they play on one of the best teams in the country and they have these stats.  So there are times where your team's success can be really helpful.   
I know Craig's had a ton of success with the sport of swimming.  I know when you nominate at-large candidates you'll talk about how many national championships the team has won in addition to just the individuals.   
Do we have any other questions out there?  Right now we've not been sent them, so this is your shot to ask any other questions.   
If not, definitely, if you have questions as you're going through the process, don't hesitate to reach out to myself, to Laurie, to Craig, to Mark Beckenbach or any of the other folks on our committee.  We thank you for joining us today for this conference.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT