U.S. OPEN
September 4, 1992
Jimmy Connors
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.   Jimmy, as we saw the game, the errors, you made a lot
of unforced errors.  You know? 
 
 JIMMY CONNORS:  Nobody is perfect.  I was the one forcing the
action.  He just stayed out there and bunted the ball back.  I
was the one that was being aggressive and forcing the action.
 So I guess when you do that, then you are going to make a few
more errors.  I don't think I played too badly.

 Q.   He feels very comfortable on the baseline and you never
tried to pull him to the net--

 JIMMY CONNORS:  It is like pulling teeth.  He just refuses to
come in.  He doesn't play anything like he used to. Before, he
used to come over that backhand.  Now, you know, talking to Vitas,
he said he almost plays with fear now, just to bunt the ball back.
 He is satisfied with bunting the ball back, which is different
than the way he used to play.  He used to come over the ball and
whack it from the baseline.  I don't think he does that much anymore.
 But pulling him in, I was hitting balls short enough with some
angle only to bring him in.  He refuses to come.

 Q.   Jimmy, how do you feel physically, right now?

 JIMMY CONNORS:  I feel all right.

 Q.   No problems?

 JIMMY CONNORS:  No.

 Q.   That first set, how well do you think you played?

 JIMMY CONNORS:  It's pretty sweet to be able to play like that,
still.  Unfortunately, you know, I go through it.  I expend so
much energy now, in a set like that.  It would have been a lot
different if-- I think at 2-All or something, in the second set,
I think I had a breakpoint, at 2-All?  And if I would have won
that game, to go up another break, and keep the pressure on him,
it would have been interesting, a little more interesting.

 Q.   What now, Jimmy?  After this, what does the future hold
for you. Do you think about it at the moment?

 JIMMY CONNORS:  For tennis?

 Q.   Yes.

 JIMMY CONNORS:  I mean, I have got a busy year.  I have got a
match with Martina coming up in two weeks.  And I have got a full
schedule in tennis-wise, and I have a book coming out this fall.
 I have to do some work for my book coming out.  That's going
to be a lot of fun.  I have got a full year coming out the rest
of this year.  Tennis-wise, and otherwise.

 Q.   Jimmy, when you play a guy like Lendl, Lendl has got
such a history with you.  Do you have any special feelings when
you play a match against a guy like that, or is he just another
match?

 JIMMY CONNORS:  I guess you got to treat him as just another
match.  I mean, ten or twelve years ago he had-- actually, more
that that.  Twelve or fourteen years ago he had the opportunity
to jump in the Borg, McEnroe, Connors triangle, and he didn't
do it.  He could have made it pretty interesting, you know, with
the four of us.  He didn't do that.  He chose to bide his time
a little bit more.  That would have -- I don't feel the rivalry
with him as I do with Borg and McEnroe, or I did not feel that.


 Q.   You have had a career full of memories, but if you had
to choose just one favorite memory, Jimmy, in your career, what
would it be?

 JIMMY CONNORS:  It is impossible to do.  I think playing here
last year and coming out this year for the first match and even
tonight was-- you can't buy that.  That is what I worked 22 years
to hopefully get from the people, and the people make it all worthwhile
for me now.  You know, to come out try and play as well as I can,
they were excited out there and that is the way they were when
I was the best player.  You know, 15, 20 years ago, and that,
to me, is worth everything.  You know, for me to still be able
to create some excitement so that they can yell and scream and
be part, it's been a part of the tennis.  It is impossible for
me to say that was the most exciting one night of my career. 
It is impossible to say that, because every time I play here,
it is something new it is something different, and something that
creates a fonder memory for the next year, more so here than anyplace
in the world for me because of the people.

 Q.   Jimmy, when you talked about -- you talked about this
year having a busy schedule.  Do you hope or when do you start
to sit down and try to plan next year, do you have a busy schedule,
can you even look that far?

 JIMMY CONNORS:  I already started planning my next year.  I am
going to play maybe eight tournaments on this tour and I am hopefully
play six, hopefully eight for the 35 and overs.  And then play
some from -- some special and some exhibitions, but I am going
to play less and start spending a little more time on my outside
work, and with my family.

 Q.   Can a Grand Slam be in there?

 JIMMY CONNORS:  The French, I don't think so.  As much as I love
playing the French, and love the  place, and the city, I will
go there for the time, but I don't think I can play the singles
there anymore.  It is just too tough.  I will play doubles, though.
 I am going to resurrect my doubles career.  I have got a new
partner now and we are in there. We skyrocketed to 975 on the
computer after Indianapolis. But doubles I am play, just because
I enjoy the city so much.  You know, Wimbledon, it's a different
story Wimbledon, if-- because if I am feeling good like I am playing
here and feeling like I played here, the points are shorter, and
I can work a little free points and get by with a lot there, so
that is a possibility.  And here, I mean, I feel like I played
well enough today, I could have beat a lot of guys tonight.  He
just happened to be one that I couldn't.  But that is part of
the draw I have always wanted to be a dangerous floater in a draw,
but I didn't want to be it when I was 40.  I would have preferred
to be it when I was 30, but it is okay.

 Q.   You have never been really close to Ivan, have you, personalities?

 JIMMY CONNORS:  No.  

 Q.   Has there been any residue of the bitterness of the Masters
and those sort of things --

 JIMMY CONNORS:  Not from me there isn't.

 Q.  -- Floated down the years?

 JIMMY CONNORS:  I don't know.  You should ask him that, I don't
know.  Not from me.

 Q.   In your case?

 JIMMY CONNORS:  I don't care.  That was happened one night and
it is over.  That is his reputation that follows him.

 Q.   When you played that sweet tennis in the first set, what
does it feel like?  Did you just feel like everything was going
in that first set?

 JIMMY CONNORS:  No, I came out with a plan of not staying back
and hitting more than five balls.  And anything short, I was going
to take advantage of and get to the net.  I served and volleyed
as well as I have ever done in my life.  And then -- I expended
so much energy in doing that, that, you know, then I found myself
playing back and hitting seven balls a point and then trying to
get in and then it was too late.  Seven balls was too many.  Five
was perfect and then I had an opportunity on the fifth ball. 
I didn't take advantage of, so I started slowing down a little
bit.

 Q.   You had one point where you finished up -- you saved
the point, but you were draped over the clock after it.

 JIMMY CONNORS:  I wanted to see what time it was; how much longer
do I have.

 Q.   What time was it?

 JIMMY CONNORS:  It was about 10:27 and getting near time to go
home.  No, it is, you know, I do that -- actually, I felt better
here than I felt all summer, physically, and mentally, and I ran
down a few balls, and kept the ball in play, and that takes it's
toll on me, but it doesn't last long.  The problem is that it
lasted-- if it lasts a point that is too much, it gives them a
chance to come out and get a free point next point, whereas, maybe
six years ago or five years ago, I would be right back in there
ready to play another tough point.  That is a little bit tough
to take, but, you know, that is just part of it.

 Q.   Do you know that going into a point like that that point
is going to be awful hard for you if he hits it back over?

 JIMMY CONNORS:  I know it is going to happen, yeah, but I am
not going to change my style now.  And I have made my reputation
after, about trying after everything that no matter where the
ball is I am going for it, and that is what the people still like
to see, and they don't mind seeing me drape over a clock too,
so I mean it is --

 Q.   It works?

 JIMMY CONNORS:  Yeah.

 Q.   Jimmy, did it matter to you tonight that this was Lendl
that you lost to Lendl?

 JIMMY CONNORS:  What do you mean?

 Q.   Well, I mean you have got such a history with him.  You
have played each other 100 times.  Would it be better or easier
to take or whatever if you lost to somebody else instead of him?

 JIMMY CONNORS:  No easier to take on either side.  It is not
easier, it is probably -- I mean, it doesn't affect me either
way who I lose to.  I don't like losing to anybody, still.  Maybe
that is one thing that keeps me in there, I guess like I am, but
like I said, I think I could have beaten a lot of guys tonight,
I can get by with muscling a lot of guys still, and going in and
playing my game, and muscling them.  You know, I couldn't do that
with him.  He was content just to stay back and bunt the ball
back, and he is eight years younger and a little bit-- he is bigger
and stronger and he is in a little bit better shape.  So he is
content to- (Jimmy makes sound)- do that a lot of guys wouldn't
get by with that.  That is what happens.  It is all right.  I
am not going to go home and commit suicide, that is for sure.
 Not tonight, anyway.

 Q.   Is there any player you would like to see have a run
like you had last year?

 JIMMY CONNORS:  Hell, no.  Why?  Why do I want to see that? I
mean, first of all, I don't know if -- that couldn't happen, because
of -- I think because of the age of all of the players.  -- The
people got into that because number one because I played some
pretty good tennis but because of the age factor, you know, the
people in the stands are not 25 and under.  They are 35 and over.
 And I think that played a big part in what happened last year,
and even here, the first night, and then even tonight, I mean,
the crowd, and the feedback, and the enthusiasm and the thrill
of me walking out there and seeing that crowd but those were all
the people that were out there 20 years ago when I first started.
 A lot of them didn't like me then.  Some of them did.  They stayed
around for all of this time to still come out and watch me play,
and because of that, they feel a part of me, and vice versa. 
I feel a part of them, too. That is why I love coming here because
I have a relationship with these people, that is beyond tennis.
 It is beyond what I do.  It is the sportsfan and their attitude
that makes me what I am here.  Can you understand that?  

 Q.   Yes.

 JIMMY CONNORS:  You do?  Explain it to me, then, will you? It
is different here than anyplace in the world for me.

 Q.   Jimmy, why do you suppose if they didn't like you 20
years ago they like you now?

 JIMMY CONNORS:  I don't know you better go quiz them on that.
 That is tough for me to answer.  I mean, I think my attitude
was different then.  They had not seen or they -- I was new. 
My attitude was new.  My game was new.  How I went about things
was different.  I was not a country club player.  I came from
a small town.  I was public parks player and I had the attitude
of that.  And tennis was just then starting to leave the country
club and start growing in people that weren't just the real tennis
expert.  So when they started coming into tennis establishment
was always, did you see what he did, Jesus Christ, he is a bad
boy, and kind of didn't like my attitude which was fine, but that
kind of attitude is what brought fun, the people, the real sportsfan,
who weren't afraid to say, hey, this isn't too bad.  I mean, the
kid is out there grinding his guts out.  He is not afraid to say
what he thinks and do what he wants to do, but he is playing some
damn good tennis, so whether you like me or you hate me, you still
enjoyed coming back the next day.  And that is -- that is what
they still -- I guess enjoy seeing now, that I still am not afraid
to go out there and share my thoughts and my attitude, and things
in the open so that they can see just how I feel.  I mean, everything
does not go right all the time.  You are sitting writing an article
and you might get upset too, but you don't -- nobody sees that.
Unfortunately 20,000 people see my feelings out there, which I
like.  I like that.  I like them to know when I am happy and when
I am sad and I like them to know when I am upset, and I want them
to know when I am, you know, I mean that is me, that is just my
attitude and what I am on the inside I want them to know.  I think
they can relate to that because they know that everything doesn't
go 100% right for them every time either.  So that they can relate
a little bit.

 Q.   Two more questions please,?

 JIMMY CONNORS:  Put pressure on them.  Thanks everybody.   

 End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT