U.S. OPEN
September 2, 1992
Jimmy Connors
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.   In the past, you got the problem with the foot, and you
have new type of shoes.  You don't have any problem with the foot?

 JIMMY CONNORS:  I have had each foot operated on though in the
past.  But I don't want to go through that anymore and I have
no problems, so I am okay.

 Q.   You just said that you and Ivan Lendl knew each other
so well that you couldn't surprise each other. Are you going to
surprise him in any way, anything new?

 JIMMY CONNORS:  It is too late.  It is too late for me to change
my game now.  I am stuck with the kind of game I play, and it
can't be that bad a game.  It has held up over 22 years.  It is
not that bad.  If I am playing well, then I have got a shot to
go out and try to do something pretty good out there and that
is win the match.  I am not going to all of a sudden change my
game for one match.  I am not going to do that.

 Q.   Jimmy, does 40 mean anything to you as a number, a milestone?

 JIMMY CONNORS:  No.  I mean, it does as far as, you know, where
I am in my life, and what I have done in the past and where I
am going in the future.  But as far as the way I feel and what
I do right now, it doesn't bother me.  And basically, I don't
really think about my birthday, and my birthdays in the past because
I am always playing here and I have been too busy to think about
it and worry about it. I may have a problem when I don't do this
anymore on my birthday.  Then it might be a little bit of a problem
when it can take effect a little bit.  Right now, I am so busy
playing tennis and with my family, and getting outside things
going that I really don't have time to think about it.

 Q.   You were all ready to play at night on Friday.

 JIMMY CONNORS:  I will play any time.  I think they would like
to play us on Friday evening.

 Q.   Can you talk a little bit about the crowd tonight.  How
did that play into your game?

 JIMMY CONNORS:  It is no secret that I like playing here, and,
you know, the kind of crowd that was here last year and even tonight,
I mean, it is something that I work my whole career to get and
last year was really the kind of feeling-- that they gave me the
feeling that they still enjoy the way I play, and by still coming
out.  Even tonight, I mean, it is my birthday and they come out
and I mean, it is a big party for me, really.  And that is the
way they feel, too.  They come out.  They enjoy it.  They get
into the tennis.  They yell.  They scream; have a good time, and
it is just a big  place to have a party.  Why shouldn't I have
fun and go out there and I talk to the people.  I try to play
good tennis, which they allow me to do because they are so into
it, and have a pretty good time.  I enjoyed it.  You know, I think
they did too. Can't beat that.

 Q.   Is there a way you can put into words the feeling once
you step out there with that crowd?

 JIMMY CONNORS:  Can you put what into words?  No.  I cannot.
 That is something that is beyond all.  You know, why don't you
ask him what it was like when he walked out there.  Be better
to ask him.  And because, you know, for me, it is just-- it is
that moment that those people are there to be a part of what I
do.  It is unexplainable.  I can't explain it.  I know that over
the years that is probably one reason I have broken my back to
do what I do so well, because of that.

 Q.   Have you ever found yourself in his position at the beginning
of your career?

 JIMMY CONNORS:  Sure.

 Q.   How did you feel about that?

 JIMMY CONNORS:  I handled it okay, because I was a different
attitude than all these guys.  My attitude and what I felt at
the time was probably not like they do.  I played Rosewall in
the finals of Wimbledon and at a time when he was 39, and it was
more or less the same thing.  But, you know, my attitude and my
upbringing was a lot different from a lot of other people.

 Q.   Like what, Jimmy?

 JIMMY CONNORS:  Just about handling situations and handling that
part of, you know, of my life at that young age, to go out-- I
mean, that was my opportunity at the time, to go out and to play
Rosewall like that.  I mean, I knew he was  -- he was the man.
 He was the legend.  He was the one who had put his reputation
on the line for 25 years, and that was my opportunity to enter,
where he had been for 25 years.  And so my upbringing was that
of -- I don't want to say no respect, but I had no respect when
I had to play that way.  That is the way I play.  And I knew that
if I didn't get on him, then I may never have another chance.
So I had to take full advantage of that.  Maybe the game today
is a little bit different.  You know, I don't want -- players
are very satisfied with where they are, and what they make, and
with what they do, without having to put forth the effort of feeling
that number one is the only thing that they can really grasp on
to.

 Q.   Was there any way that this young man could have somehow
shown no respect or no mercy for you tonight? Could he have gotten
to you somehow?

 JIMMY CONNORS:  No.  That is also, I mean, my attitude 22 years
ago is still my attitude today.  And would I allow that?  No.
 I would have stayed out there for four hours if I had to accomplish
what I wanted to do out there, especially tonight, with you know,
playing Wednesday night, my birthday, with the people here.  I
would have done anything to win that match tonight, anything,
no matter how long it would take.  What I had to do, if I had
to stay serve and volley, whatever, I would have changed my game
to do anything to win that match.  Now,, yeah, I mean, he could
have accomplished it.  He would have had to be strong in a lot
of ways; not only his game, but his game was really secondary
to his -- to his mind and his will.  I mean, is he willing to
stay out there for four hours with me facing that all night? 
I don't know.  I would have, if I would have been in his position.
 You know, tonight would have been his night to really make an
impact on his career.  That's the way he should have looked at
it.  But he didn't, so I appreciate it.

 Q.   Can you sense, really, when the player is not willing
to do battle with you for four years?

 JIMMY CONNORS:  There are points in a match where you feel that
things are turning your way.  In the first game or two, I think
he was willing to stay in there, but then he really fell off for
a set and a half and at 5-1 down in the second set, he started
hitting the ball a little bit harder and playing a bit more  aggressive.
 By then, it is a little bit late and then I got on him in the
third set and it was a good night for me.  I mean, I played good,
firm, solid tennis which is really what I went out there striving
to do, not to do anything out of the ordinary but just to play
good, aggressive, solid tennis and not try to do as if it was
a first match.  I wanted to get into the first match.  I wanted
to get stuck into it in a way where I felt comfortable.  I did
that from the very beginning, which was the best way to start.


 Q.   When you said that his will, you say this is sport or
more than sport today?

 JIMMY CONNORS:  Is it sport?  

 Q.   Or more than that?

 JIMMY CONNORS:  It is more than that.  It is entertainment. 
It is -- the whole atmosphere around here was beyond tennis. 
It is the way tennis was, I hate to say this, it's the way tennis
was in the '70s and the early '80s when you walked in and there
was electricity here; when Borg was playing and Gerulaitis was
playing player and Nastase. When you looked at your sheet, you
didn't know where to go.  You didn't know where to go.  There
were too many great matches.  It was buzzing, and today, I mean,
I walked in here, whoa, for me, it kind of even set me back a
little bit.  I said, boy, it is not supposed to be like this anymore.
 It was really a fantastic feeling just to be around today for
me.  And then, when I walked out there, I mean, it was just, whoa,
it was almost like -- if I would have let it, it could have taken
the importance of tennis away.  And basically that is my main
reason of being here to play tennis.  It just happens to go along
with a lot of other things, which was super.

 Q.   What would you imagine Friday to be like then facing
him?

 JIMMY CONNORS:  Come on out and see.  I am going to.  That is
all I can say.  You know, every time I come here and play, I don't
know what to expect.  And that is the unbelievable thing about
coming out here and playing, you know, the people come and they
can leave in the middle of the match if they don't think things
are going well, they can stay forever if they want to see you
win.  If I can go out and get stuck and there is a good crowd
there; if I can get stuck in the match on Friday night, we could
have one hell of an evening.

 Q.   At least you will expect he will give you his 100%?

 JIMMY CONNORS:  I don't really care what he gives me.  It is
what I do that is the most important for myself.  I mean, you
know, I would expect nothing less from anybody walking out on
a tennis court to give me anything less than 100% if they give
me anything less than 100%, they are not very professional in
my books.  So--

 Q.   What I meant, like today, this guy was willing to play
with you.  Lendl probably would--

 JIMMY CONNORS:  He is a younger player.  He is young.  And tonight
was a good education for him.  It was very good. He has beaten
Lendl before.  He is not a stronger to the game.  He beat Lendl
in the French Open which is a strong task for anybody.  So he
is no stranger to the game.  As far as Lendl goes, he has been
in -- he is more experienced.  He has been in a lot more situations
than this young fellow.  I expect he will be out there giving
it his best shot.  I never expect anything less from him.

 Q.   What did tonight's game mean to you taking into account
your birthday, turning 40, and also plans for the future?

 JIMMY CONNORS:  It is the 35 tour.  It is not the senior tour.
 It is the 35 tour.  But I mean, it is no secret, I am not going
to play a full schedule on this tour.  I am going to play a shortened
schedule, eight tournaments. Then six or eight, 35 events.  I
mean, tonight in turning 40 had nothing to do with that.  I was
planning on doing that anyway.  As long as I keep my game up and
I feel I can compete; then I am going to stay and play some tournaments
on the major tour.  Only because I like it.  I still like it.
 I like the actual playing against the young players and the competing
against the kids that are half my age. But on the other side on
the 35 Tour, that is all my buddies.  That is all the guys that
I grew up with, that I have played from some -- I played from
when I was eight, ten years old, and they have more for me than
this tour does, as far as communicating and being a part of and
being around and offering more.  It is-- I have been on here for
about 8, 9 years by myself without all my buddies that I grew
up with.  It is lonely out here for me.  It really is.  I walk
in the lockerroom and I see McEnroe in there but he is with his
friends.  He is the closest one to my age, but the other guys
are, you know, half my age and there is a gap in there someplace,
a huge gap.  I mean, I am looking forward to continuing to play
here for a number of events, but I am also looking forward to
playing the 35 Tour next year.  And being a part of that, and
making that hopefully as successful or going towards the same
way that the senior golf tour has gone.  That would be pretty
exciting to be a part of that.

 Q.   Follow-up with that, would you say that kind of -- to
sum it up, the adrenaline keeps you in this?

 JIMMY CONNORS:  The adrenaline.  Adrenaline is a pretty weak
word for that, I think.  I would say a lot of things that enter
into why I still do this.  One is my game, and where it started
and where it is now.  Who I started against and who I am playing
now.  There has been about four generations in there, so my game
continues to keep up with the best of the day.  And then I just
love competing against the great young players of today.  That
is my fun.  As long as I have fun doing it, then I will continue
on.

 Q.   Jimmy all week, every single player in here was asked
if they can see themselves playing at 40.  Every single one said
no, except Monica Seles today said that as soon as a couple of
days go by and she doesn't play tennis she misses it.  Does that
tell you anything about-- does that sound like a different kind
of drive today?

 JIMMY CONNORS:  Well, there is a difference between playing tennis
at 40 and doing this at 40.  You got to be-- like I said, that
is-- my attitude is different from all everybody else's.  I don't
do this because I have to do it and I don't do it because I need
the money.  And I don't do it because you know, I want to get
away from home.  I mean, I do it because I really love playing
tennis and if this was a $50,000 tournament, it would be interesting
to see how many guys would be here playing this event.  I would
be here.  Just because I love the game.  And I don't know if there
is that actual love for the game out there as far as the desire
to be the absolute best, like there used to be.

 Q.   From anybody?

 JIMMY CONNORS:  I don't know.  I can't say from anybody because
I don't sit down and talk to them.  You should find that out when
they come in here.  But the drive and the desire was different
20 years ago than it is now.  There was no money.  Guys today,
they make so much money by not winning, by not winning, they are
pushed and they are marketed; they are advertised and everything,
even when they don't win; whereas, before, if you didn't win you
never gotten anything else.  So, I mean, it is a whole different
era than it was when I started.  I loved it then and I like it
now, so that should tell you something.

 Q.   In a sense, you are disappointed that these younger players
don't drive you as hard?

 JIMMY CONNORS:  I am not disappointed.  I am not saying anything
about the younger players towards me.  I am not saying anything
about that.  I am saying you know, I love playing the younger
players.  I really do.  That is my fun.  Playing this kid out
there-- he can't be more than 20.  He is half my age.  That is
fun for me.  But--

 Q.   Why is that fun, what--

 JIMMY CONNORS:  Why wouldn't it be?  I am 40 years old.  I am
putting my game against his game that has been around for four
generations -- I mean, for years.

 Q.   His generation doesn't have the drive, you told us.

 JIMMY CONNORS:  But wait.

 Q.   That yours did.

 JIMMY CONNORS:  Let me finish.  And I am putting my physical
abilities still against his at 40.  So, I mean more enters into
just going out and playing him than the tennis itself.  Tennis
probably is secondary in a lot of ways, so I mean, going out and
my drive to stay in shape and to stay fit and to do this, you
know, I mean, fun comes in a lot of packages.  It really does.
 You know, so why if I say it is fun do you have to dig down any
further than just saying, hey, I accept it, he is having fun.
 Why do you have to dig down any further than that?  I mean, I
am not saying if they push me hard or they don't do -- back 15
years ago, screw 15 years ago and screw now.  That is the way
I look at it.  What I am saying is I like what I do.  You know,
I maybe one of the only guys you could look up to and say, hey,
this guy really likes what he does.  So -- what is wrong with
that?  Give me a tape of this.  I don't  know what the hell I
said.     

 End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT