U.S. OPEN
August 31, 1994
MaliVai Washington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Mal, I counted about a dozen shots tonight that no other human being could have
gotten to. 
 
 MaliVAI WASHINGTON: Who got them me or Michael.  
 
Q. Michael. 
 
 MaliVAI WASHINGTON: I didn't get any?  
 
Q. You had 7 or 8? 
 
 MaliVAI WASHINGTON: Oh.  
 
Q. He chased down some of your great shots, do you feel that way too? Is it frustrating
to put the ball in the corner and see it come back and put it in the other corner and see
it come back? 
 
 MaliVAI WASHINGTON: Is it frustrating? It makes it more interesting because you got to
do a little more and you can't just bank on hitting one or two good shots to get the point
over with, you know, that's one of his assets. He can get back a lot of balls, but, you
know, when I go out there and play him I expect that, you know, and I'm ready for that.
You know, he was just able to get one more ball back, you know, than I did.  
 
Q. Is this a friendly rivalry or -- 
 
 MaliVAI WASHINGTON: Oh, I hate him-- no. I mean, it's a good rivalry. How could -- it's
hard not to like a guy like Michael because he's a class act on the court and, you know,
he just goes out and does his business and leaves. No BS'ing around with him and it's good
to play a guy like that. And I'm the same way. I'm just out there to play tennis, and you
know, the best man will win. He won today, I won a couple weeks ago. When you fight like
that -- I thought it was a good match. When you fight as hard as you can, you don't -- you
know, you go up and shake the guy's hand and wish him luck.  
 
Q. Did you sense yourself winning over the crowd; could you tell? 
 
 MaliVAI WASHINGTON: I could see that I had a lot of support. It was great. That's what
was pulling me through the final set. I was having a few tough games on serves towards the
end of the fourth and he was holding easy on his serve and a couple times I got down, I
think, Love-40, Love-30 that kind of thing, and you know, I'd come up with a big serve and
the crowd would really get into it. They would go nuts and that would spur me on a little
more. So it was great to have all the -- you know, so many people just loving the tennis.  
 
Q. There was a point where you had a big run, you won like, I think, 10 of 12 points, I
don't know, 9 of 11, 10 of 12; did you do anything? 
 
 MaliVAI WASHINGTON: At what point was that?  
 
Q. After the third -- I have to look -- 
 
 MaliVAI WASHINGTON: Yeah, I think I went up 3-0 in the fourth.  
 
Q. You won the first game of the set at Love and only dropped one or two points in the
next, was anything accounting for that? 
 
 MaliVAI WASHINGTON: When I was out there I was hoping to serve as good as I could
throughout the whole match and my serve was bailing me out a lot, and it was working for
me, which I was happy about. I think at that point, I was just putting that third set
behind me and I wanted to get off to a good start in the fourth. It just so happened that,
you know, I was able to get off to a good start in every set and -- you know, but I never
sustained it. I went up a break in the second, third and fourth, and a break isn't any
good if you're not going to hold all the way through the set, which obviously I didn't do.
 
 
Q. On that same note, you won the first game, broke him -- won the first, set broke him
to start the second set, went up two nothing and came back with six straight, did
something go wrong there that you attribute to anything? 
 
 MaliVAI WASHINGTON: I think he just played tough. I could see that he had cut down on
some of his errors and he was just playing hard ball. I mean, that's all you can really
say. I don't think I was doing anything wrong or differently. At that time, he was just
playing a little better tennis.  
 
Q. MaliVai, are you ever surprised with your matches with Michael, two guys as quick
and good on-court coverage as you are that there aren't more points that come to a
conclusion as quickly as they do? 
 
 MaliVAI WASHINGTON: Am I surprised at that?  
 
Q. Yes. 
 
 MaliVAI WASHINGTON: No, I'm the kind of guy who's out there and I'm looking to run down
a lot of balls too. We're not the type of players who are just going to rush the net a
whole lot. I probably will so more than him, but even still, I know when I'm out there, I
got to work the point around. I -- I'm not a serve and volleyer, so I'm not just going to
be coming in on anything. I work the point around it until I get the shot I want or I
create the shot to come in on, and when it's like that, you're going to have a lot of long
points and a lot of running and a lot of great gets and a lot of great winners. It just
makes for great tennis.  
 
Q. Any point in the tiebreaker, any moment in the tiebreaker that just finished it for
you; anything that you thought called the end of it? 
 
 MaliVAI WASHINGTON: I thought the match point finished it for me when I hit that volley
winner at 3-All -- to go 3-All, that was a good point and I felt good at that point. I was
hoping -- I was hoping he would throw in an error or something like that, but he played a
solid tiebreaker. I'm not so sure he made a single unforced error in the tiebreaker.
That's how you got to play the breakers. I look forward to playing him again.  
 
End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT