U.S. OPEN
September 5, 1993
MaliVai Washington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Mal, the first set you break him to go up 4-2 then you come back right after that for a couple of doublefaults; basically gave the game to him.  Seemed to have fallen apart after that.  What happened in that game, did you lose concentration?
 
MaliVAI WASHINGTON:  I don't know.  It is just -- I don't know, it is just one of those things.  I don't know what it was.  Just threw in a couple of doubles.  I don't know.  I guess I look at a double just like it is just like missing any other shot.  Just so happens that I doublefaulted.  I mean, it is not good when you get up a break and just throw him a couple of points like that.  I think I had doublefaulted three times, but I don't know, it happens.  I don't really think it was a lack of concentration.  Just threw them in at that particular time. 
 

Q. You returned his serves well.
 
MaliVAI WASHINGTON:  Is that so? 
 

Q. Yeah, I thought that in the second, okay, the end of the first game and the second. And the beginning of the second when you got up two, three?
 
MaliVAI WASHINGTON:  I think there were times I was returning well, but, I don't know, I don't think I really put a whole lot of pressure on his serve, I got to.  I broke that one time.  I think a couple of times I had, maybe a breakpoint or so, maybe at Love-30 on the serve, but I was-- never really did much to challenge him on his serve, I don't think.  I think that was the big difference. 
 

Q. When you get chances like you had at 4-2, to like against a guy like Courier to not hold right a way, is that a bigger let down to a guy like him; you feel you have --
 
MaliVAI WASHINGTON:  I feel you get a few less chances against the No. 1 guy in the world than you might against No. 20 or 30 guy, but still, I don't know, you just got to, no matter who you are playing, you got to really try to convert when you break. I just didn't -- I just wasn't getting a whole lot of first serves in.  I know my percentage wasn't that high and, I mean, that was the difference.  I didn't return serve and not too much on my serve. 
 

Q. I just walked in.  Seemed to happen so abruptly up 4-2 in the first set; lost 4 games in a row lost first game of the second set; anything specific during that five game span?
 
MaliVAI WASHINGTON:  I don't think so.  It just happened.  It was just one of those things.  I think at that point I might have thrown a couple of more errors that I had thrown in the first six games, but I don't know.  I don't know if there was any specific thing that made that happen. 
 

Q. At 4-2 did you feel him turn up the juice all of a sudden, his shots getting harder going for more winners?
 
MaliVAI WASHINGTON:  Not particularly.  I think he played pretty much the same throughout.  I didn't feel like he was hitting the ball any harder or doing anything differently.  He played -- he played a solid match throughout all three sets, I thought. 
 

Q. Are you going to take some time off after this or...
 
MaliVAI WASHINGTON:  I don't know.  I don't know what I am going to do.  I am taking a couple of days off.  I might hang in New York for a little while, just go out a little bit, but I don't know.  I am not going to take too much time off because Davis Cup is coming up pretty soon and I want to be healthy and feeling good come Davis Cup, so I am not going to take too much time off. 
 

Q. He is playing Pioline next round, what do you think about that match?
 
MaliVAI WASHINGTON:  I didn't win.  You should probably ask Jim.  I don't know.  I don't know if they ever played before.  I think Jim has pretty good form right now.  So I think he will go on and do well. 
 

Q. A lot the analysts talk about strategy on-court with most sports.  How would you compare your strategy versus, obviously, Courier in the way it appeared, again, would all due respect, his strategy was to hit the ball as usual, away from the opponent at some point; while yours seemed to be hitting the ball toward him.  I mean, that is the way it looked from a novices' standpoint.
 
MaliVAI WASHINGTON:  You are right.  I was definitely trying to hit it straight to him, so he could make me run and then I could move more.  That was my strategy.  My strategy was to run as much as I could and to give him as many forehands as possible.  That was my strategy.  High forehands. 
 

Q. Thanks a lot, Mal.    


End of FastScripts....
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT