U.S. OPEN
September 8, 1992
MaliVai Washington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.   Mal, it was very close for three and a half, four sets,
then he kind of slipped away from you.  What was the difference
at the end? 
 
 MaliVAI WASHINGTON:  Probably just his consistent play.  I think
the last half of the fourth set and throughout the fifth, he was
real consistent.  He wasn't making a whole lot of errors, and
I think that is the thing to do when you get to those fifth sets.
 You just got to be real consistent and, you know, make the other
guy play, make him feel the pressure.  I think that is what he
was able to do tonight.

 Q.   Were you surprised that he came to the net as much as
he did?

 MaliVAI WASHINGTON:  I mean, I didn't think he came to the net
a whole lot, tell you the truth.  I mean, he played like I thought
he was going to play.

 Q.   Seemed like in the third, fourth set, he started to hit
the ball higher, maybe changing the pace a little bit.  Do you
think that had any effect on the match?

 MaliVAI WASHINGTON:  Well, I think at that point, he had just
lost the third set, and I think he wanted to kind of throw in
a change-up, and obviously it worked.  Whatever he was doing,
the first set, wasn't working in the second and third.  You know,
he just started changing the pace of the ball; changing the height
of the ball, hoping, you know, it would affect me somehow, get
me out of my rhythm.  I thought -- I thought I handled it pretty
well.  He just was able to counter, you know, when I attacked.
 I thought that that is what he did best in the last set.

 Q.   How many times did he hit shots that you didn't see how
in the world he could have hit?

 MaliVAI WASHINGTON:  He came up with a lot of good shots, shots
from where he was on the dead run, and you know, hit shots past
me that were on the line or close, you know, to the line.  At
that point, you know, you just got to say too good, yeah, maybe
I could have hit a better approach or little harder or little
deeper, though they were good approaches, and he just came up
with better shots, so I don't know, I guess that is why I am not,
you know, real upset about the results.  I thought I did what
I wanted to do.  He just came up with better shots when he had
to.  

 Q.   Were you disappointed that this match wasn't played in
the stadium tonight?

 MaliVAI WASHINGTON:  It is always nice to play in the stadium.
It's a bigger court, bigger crowd, everything.  It would have
been nice to play it in there.  We both agreed you know, because
what time is it now?  I mean if we--

 Q.   12:00.

 MaliVAI WASHINGTON:  -- Had gone according to plan, we would
have been going on as soon as this match is over so obviously
it was good to go out to the grandstand.

 Q.   Mal, you spoke of his fifth set consistency.  You have
had some difficulty in fifth sets, the record and all that which
you heard before.  Is there anything that you could work on to
improve your consistency at that point in a match; do you think?

 MaliVAI WASHINGTON:  Improve my consistency?

 Q.   When you are deep in a match, is there anything that
you can do to prepare yourself for that situation or do you have
to wait until you are in it?

 MaliVAI WASHINGTON:  I don't know.  I mean, when I get to the
fifth set, I do what I have been doing, you know.  I don't think
I play poorly in fifth sets.  I don't know, maybe I should grab
a gun and shoot the guy, or something and maybe I will win the
fifth set, but you know, the guy -- I don't think it's a matter
of me just, you know, being way up and just losing it because
the thing gets tight.  Some of the five setters I have lost, the
guy just played better.  I don't know, you can't do too much about
that.

 Q.   Did you think -- you had him frustrated or about to in
the fourth set, maybe not -- were you surprised that he had kind
of a reserve tank in the fourth set to come on?

 MaliVAI WASHINGTON:  I didn't think he was tired.  I didn't expect
him to run out of gas at all.  I think at this level, I mean,
you got to expect guys to go four, five hours, so I wasn't banking
on him running out of gas.  In that fourth set, I was trying to
close it out.  I think one of the turning points was when, I don't
know, might have been the third game or the second game, something
like that, of the fourth set, where I had a breakpoint to go up
a break.  I can't remember exactly.  I just missed the return.
 Then I remember I missed the return at deuce and then, at that
point, it just seemed that that was the little boost he needed,
came back from a breakpoint or whatever, and was able to hold
me off throughout the rest of the match.

 Q.   When it got into the fifth set, was it all instinctive
and reactive on your part or were you thinking "I have got
to do something" and thinking about what you had to do to
win the fifth set?

 MaliVAI WASHINGTON:  I wanted to do the same thing I had been
doing because like -- I thought that was pretty successful.  Like
I was saying before, he just continued to come up with good shots.
 I mean, it was that simple.  I mean, you saw some of the passing
shots he was hitting, you know.  It is his good fortune that he
can hit those, you know; my bad, that I couldn't reach them.

 Q.   Do you look at you and Michael as pretty similar players
and, if so, is that one reason that everybody was having trouble
holding serve?

 MaliVAI WASHINGTON:  I mean, I suppose we are -- I don't know,
we are kind of similar, I suppose.  Tonight, we were kind of similar.
 I don't mean either one of us were serving a lot of bombs.  Actually,
he probably had more aces than I did.

 Q.   Thank you.

 MaliVAI WASHINGTON:  Great.   

 End of FastScripts....


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT