U.S. OPEN
August 29, 1996
MaliVai Washington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What did you know about him before this match?

MALIVAI WASHINGTON: I don't know. I think we played a couple of years ago. I think I
kind of had an idea about what he was going to be doing.

Q. But you knew he was hot coming in? Does that change your game plan at all?

MALIVAI WASHINGTON: No. You get out there, you play the best you can. He's going to
play the best he can. You put your game on the line and see what happens. I don't know. I
didn't really think about, you know, his success of late. I don't think that really had an
impact on the match for me anyway.

Q. What did have an impact on the match?

MALIVAI WASHINGTON: I don't know. I think I would have liked to have served a little
better, higher percentage of first serves, you know, just hit the ball a little cleaner
than I did. I think the only thing good about today was that I actually played a little
better than I did on Monday, but that was about the only good thing about tonight, I
think.

Q. Came into that fourth set and broke you to open up. Looks like he might have been
able to run away with it. That was actually the third set. But then you started rallying
back. Was there a point where you thought the momentum was shifting a little bit into your
favor?

MALIVAI WASHINGTON: Well, I think you're out there, he's up two sets to love. You just
kind of keep fighting and you keep trying to make him play a little bit. I think he got a
little tight at a couple moments. I don't think the momentum really switched until maybe I
was back even. When you're down two sets, momentum definitely isn't in your favor.

Q. When you get it to two sets all, don't you feel like at that point you fought so
hard to get it even?

MALIVAI WASHINGTON: Don't I feel what?

Q. Don't you feel like you have some momentum going into the final set?

MALIVAI WASHINGTON: I think going into the fifth set I felt pretty good. You win a
couple sets and I was hoping I could get an early break, but it just wasn't meant to be. I
think he served pretty good when he had to.

Q. Have you been in a lot of five-setters?

MALIVAI WASHINGTON: Yeah, I've played a few. 

Q. After the match, do you think you should take more risk in the game?

MALIVAI WASHINGTON: Pardon?

Q. After the match, do you think when you analyze the match that you maybe should take
more risk in the game?

MALIVAI WASHINGTON: What do you mean "take more risk"?

Q. By, for example, going more to the net.

MALIVAI WASHINGTON: No, I don't think so. I thought I played like I wanted to play,
other than I didn't execute as well as I would have liked. I don't think I would have done
too much differently.

Q. So he was just better?

MALIVAI WASHINGTON: Pardon?

Q. It seems he was just better?

MALIVAI WASHINGTON: Well, yeah, he was better tonight. That's why he came out with a W.

Q. He seems to be the kind of player that just keeps coming at you, just gets the ball
back, like playing a wall for you. Does he not have one big weapon, just keeps getting the
ball back?

MALIVAI WASHINGTON: I think Alex's strength is, you know, he has an all-around game.
That's working good for him. He can be tough.

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT