AMERICAN CENTURY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 14, 2018
Terri Upshaw
Anna White
Corinna Osborne
Gary Quinn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








GENE UPSHAW MEMORIAL SCHOLARSHIP PRESENTATION
THE MODERATOR: Welcome to Edgewood Tahoe once again.  I'd like to introduce our group that is up at the table today.
On the left is:  Corinna Osborne, General Manager with Edgewood Companies; Terri Upshaw; our award winner, Anna White, and from NBC Sports, Mr. Gary Quinn, VP of Programming and Owned Properties.
The Gene Upshaw Memorial Scholarship started with Gary and his relationship with Gene Upshaw.  Give us some background on how this concept came about and why the tournament is doing this every year.
GARY QUINN: I've said this every year.  This is my favorite moment of the week.  Just because when I started this 24 years ago, Gene had always put his arm around me because he knew that I was going to, you know, take on more and more responsibility with the tournament.
And he had obviously unbelievable leadership skills.  But I didn't understand why at the time he took such a liking to me.  And to this day, I still don't know why.  But I think it's just the kind of person that he was.
He would always be just a mentor every year and just somebody that, when he passed, it really hit home to me.  What I wanted to try to do was create something where I could reconnect with his family.  I loved being able to see Terri.  Love being able to meet Justin and be able to stay in touch with them.
I also love the fact that the nominees have to research what Gene's life was all about and that even though they had no idea, maybe never -- didn't know who he was, to be able to look back and see why he was so successful both on and off the field.
That to me, is a really worthwhile thing to do on an annual basis.  And it's also very special when you look at all the nominees and how much they've accomplished.  I mean, you're blown way by it.  You only hope that your kids can do the same.
This is extra special for me this year because this is the first time that I know the recipient.  And I'm very close with their family.
It's easy to see why Anna is such a great kid because she has two of the best parents that you're ever going to want to meet.  And Janeen and Mark, they've become close friends of mine for the past 10 years.  Janeen is probably the secret weapon of this entire tournament and nobody knows it.
But she does such an unbelievable job providing an unbelievable entertainment platform for us this week and we all owe her a debt of gratitude.  I know they're proud of Anna.  We're very proud of Anna.  She's only a junior for goodness sakes and always a state champion.  She's a champion in the classroom and off.
We're really, really proud of you.
ANNA WHITE: Thank you.
THE MODERATOR: Let us talk about the scholarship.  The scholarship is for a Whittell High School student.  Whittell is a high school on the Nevada side about five miles from here.  $5,000 scholarship.  NBC kicks in $2,500, as does Edgewood Companies every year, because of that relationship with the community.
I would like now to turn it over to Corinna Osborne, the General Manager of Edgewood Companies, to say a few words as well.
CORINNA OSBORNE: Thank you very much.  Stewardship is extremely important for Edgewood.  It's part of our core values.  And to be a part of this scholarship in conjunction with NBC Sports is truly an honor to be able to contribute and fund the dreams of our future leaders such as Anna is certainly something to be proud of.
And we're very proud as Edgewood to contribute to the scholarship as well.  And Anna truly exemplifies I think what Gene Upshaw was looking for.  And that is leadership, community service and certainly athletic and academic achievements.
And Anna White has certainly achieved all of those that Gene I think would be very proud of.  So we're very honored to be a part of this special day for Anna.
THE MODERATOR: Terri, it's a pleasure having you here.  We know it's a big week for you because you have your annual fundraiser on Monday up at Truckee this year at Schaffer's Mill for the Gene Upshaw Memorial Foundation in Truckee.  We know that's what this is all about.  We'd like you to talk a little bit about that as well.
TERRI UPSHAW: Thank you.  Congratulations, Anna.  I'm blown away by, number one, your accomplishments at 17 years old.  Reading your essay about honesty and leadership and these qualities that that was so much Gene.  And I know you did your research.  You were very young to know who Gene Upshaw was.
But I believe that Gene would be honored by this scholarship, by seeing the recipients for the past 10 years.  It's amazing what these young adults have accomplished so far.  Gary, I'd like to thank you for, number one, your kind words, but for the past 10 years for stepping up, for doing this in Gene's honor.
I know why Gene liked you.  You are a likable guy.  And Edgewood, also, for always being so much a part of this.  It's truly an honor.  And again 10 years, it's just amazing and that we continue to honor Gene's legacy by the scholarship and young kids coming up through school, researching who he was, means a lot to me, just knowing that you take the time, you research it.  You get to know who this man was, because he was an extraordinary man and did so much for so many people, and I hope that with this scholarship you will continue to live out your best and do your best.  Congratulations.
ANNA WHITE: Thank you.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Terri.  There's couple other introductions I'd like to make before we introduce our special guest.  And, Terri, you mentioned legacy.  And I think part of that is in the room, too, with one of your son's Justin who is sitting here.  And Anna's family.  You heard Gary talk about the folks, but great folks in town that have been friends, Janeen and Mark White, son Jack and, of course, Caroline's best friend, Caroline Krolicki, sitting here too.
Also from Whittell High School, counselor Estela Gerlinger.
When we look at, like Gary said earlier, and Terri mentioned and Corinna did as well, when you look at the kids that apply for this, there's six different students that applied this year.
And we don't know who they are, when those things are being reviewed.  And it's numbers one through six, you don't know who they are personally.
But every one of them, when you look at it, you go, "My God," you think back to our days in school, it's like, uh-ho.  But I didn't know you could get a 4.45 GPA.
GARY QUINN: I did want to reinforce because I do not know -- I did not know that Anna was one of the nominees.  So this was definitely a blind draw and we're just happy the way the cards fell.
CORINNA OSBORNE: No one knew who the candidates were.
THE MODERATOR: Nice way to do it.  We appreciate the high school setting it up that way.  Any how, when you look at the grades, you look at A, A, A, A, algebra, chemistry, English, science, world history, you're going wow this person's a player.  Then you look on the other side as far as, you know, as well as the academics, the honors and awards.  Class president for student council.  Varsity soccer captain.  Community activities.  Hospital volunteer.  Community center activity volunteer.  Canned food drives.  Child care for multiple families.
You're going, "Wow."  This is a person that's 17 years old.  Talk about a list of accomplishments.  So Anna it's time for you to talk a little bit -- we're looking at your review here of Gene and the paper you put together.  There's four things you said, honesty, hard work, concern and leadership are the four most important qualities for an athlete and that Gene Upshaw inspired you when you read those and saw those when you did your research.
So why don't you tell us a little bit about why you're excited to be here and what this award means to you.
ANNA WHITE: Thank you, Phil.  First off, I wanted to thank NBC and Edgewood for awarding me this scholarship.  It meant the world to me.  Second off, I want to thank my parents for always supporting me and always being there for me.  My little brother, Whitey, even though he can bug me sometimes.  I love you.  (Laughter.)  And my best friend Caroline for always being there for me.
The scholarship means a lot to me because Gene Upshaw was such an amazing man.  I'm not going to lie, I didn't know him before the scholarship, but after researching all his accomplishments, what he did as a man and as a player on the field and off the field.  It was such an honor to be awarded this scholarship.  And I could not be more grateful.
Gene was definitely, from my research at least, the epitome of a great athlete, not because of his athletic ability, but I think it was more because of his four qualities that I wrote about in my essay, honesty, leadership, hard work and concern for fellow players.  And that makes you the great athlete.
And I am so honored to have written about him and his accomplishments really inspired me in my essay to learn about him and write and just be a part of this whole experience.
THE MODERATOR: Questions?
Q. I'm curious what you plan to do with the scholarship, where you're going to go to school, where that money will go and what you want to study?
ANNA WHITE: I plan on going to school either down in San Diego at San Diego State or in Arizona, at Arizona State University.  The money will probably go towards books and tuition, and just helping pay for that because it's both schools are out of state, so it's going to be pretty expensive.
And as far as what I want to study, I'm kind of torn between becoming a nurse or studying environmental sciences, because both are very helpful and that's what I want to do with my life.  I want to help people.
And so volunteering at the hospital, it really opened my eyes to show me that that is something that I'm very interested in and I actually worked in the OB department.  And being able to help moms and seeing new babies born that was amazing for me.  That's definitely something I'm thinking about.
And I also really like environmental science, because it's such a new and growing field and I've always been drawn to science and I love the ocean.  So I'd probably want to do something with that.
Q. I guess I'm not surprised you want to give back.
Terri, I wanted to ask you if you could maybe share a story about Gene when he was in charge of the NFL PA.  Is there maybe a favorite story you have when he was working with all those players, anything that jumps to mind?
TERRI UPSHAW: I can't right off the top of my head.  Well, one particular instance.  Wow.  I'm trying to think of one.  I can just tell you this about Gene.  There were so many sort of sides to Gene, and you would see the football player, the executive director, the husband, the father, but the bottom line, who Gene really was was just this kind of humble, down-to-earth guy from Texas that wanted to live a very simple life.  And just -- it was never about him.
So running the Players Association, he would take beatings.  He would take people agree, didn't agree with him.  It didn't matter.  Gene did it for the good of the game.  Whatever it was, it was about the players.  It was about making this game better for the players and spending so many years learning and getting to know many of those players, he would take phone calls.  It didn't matter what time of day.  This was before cell phones.  The phone would ring, the player would have an issue, have a problem, Gene would take care of it.
His door was always open.  He wanted to help.  He wanted to make the game better.  He wanted to make it a good experience for families, for fans, and that's who he was.
So to give you a particular story, I can't off the top of my head, but I can tell you that he was a very humble, down-to-earth guy.
I always kind of joke about we'd come to Tahoe and he'd go to the hardware store.  His shirt might be inside out because he's working in the yard, and I'd say, "Turn your shirt around.  The tag's showing."  "I don't care.  I got work to do."
It wasn't about an image.  It was about this is who I am.  I'm a simple, humble man getting the job done, whether it's home, family, work, office, it didn't matter.
He gave 110 percent, and it was never about him.  That's who Gene was.
GARY QUINN: Just to follow up to that, the one thing that left a great impression on me is the respect and reverence that the active and former players had for him at this tournament.
I can remember conversations, being a third wheel in those conversations, but how much respect and reverence they had for him.  So everything that Terri said, they really looked up to him as a guide and a leader, and that was something that I'll never forget.
Q. Anna, you're looking at ASU.  Herm Edwards is walking around, catch up to him.  He's a nice guy.  Can't give you a football scholarship, but never know.  Make contact?
ANNA WHITE: Who knows.  I can kick.  I can kick pretty well.  (Laughter).
Q. Anna, when you were doing your research on Gene, what was the most impressive thing that you learned about him?
ANNA WHITE: Personally, for me, being a college athlete is something that is so difficult.  And the fact that Gene was in high school, multi-sport athlete playing baseball and football, being that athlete in high school and then carrying that on to being a football player in college, that's something that I really look up to as a young person that might go into college hoping to play soccer or run track.
And being able to be that dedicated to a sport.  I mean, obviously, he was since he went into the NFL, and he became such an amazing athlete and so talented.
Being able to get through that hard part of the college sports and having to go to school as well and trying to manage and balance all this time.
I mean, obviously, Gene was an amazing man.  So he wasn't just playing football and going to school and he was helping out around the community.  And just getting through that time in his life, that was probably the most impressive to me.
THE MODERATOR: Anna, before you got up there, we were talking a little bit about this scholarship and the fact that the check is going to be made out, I believe, to your name versus parents; is that correct, guys?
(Laughter)
I think mom and dad cringed a little at that one.  Congratulations to you for all your hard work, for all your community service, and we're all really, really proud of you.  Congratulations.
Q. Have you had a chance to walk around the course and see the players, do you plan to do that?
ANNA WHITE: I plan to do that today.  I've done it in years past, but I haven't gotten to yet this year.  I've been really busy with work and stuff.  I have a job over at the local beach grill.
Q. Is there any one particular player that you're interested in or any particular hole that you want to hang out at?
ANNA WHITE: Yeah.  (Laughter).  I mean, like the athletes are all very cool and stuff like that, but I really want to meet Chase Crawford again.  He was on my favorite TV show.  He's not even in the tournament.  My mom told me he was here.  (Laughter).
So hopefully I get to see him.  As for the players, I mean,  like, I know my little brother is a big fan of Steph Curry.  I see him on the TV a lot because he's always watching the Warriors play and stuff like that.  He would be really cool to meet.  But Chace Crawford is the one I'm looking forward to.
Q. Do you play golf?
ANNA WHITE: My dad really wanted me to for a long time.
Q. Well, we've seen your dad play.  We're hoping you're a little bit better.  (Laughter)
ANNA WHITE: He tries his best.  But I have played in the past.  I'm not very good at it.  But it's just kind of a fun walk-around sport, it's just something that I plan on getting better at as the years go on.  But it's not something I do competitively.
Q. That's what we've all planned but it didn't pan out.  Congratulations once again.  Real deserving winner.  It's great to have you here.  Thank you so much.
(Applause)






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT