U.S. TEAM OLYMPIC TRIALS: SWIMMING
June 25, 2012
Peter Vanderkaay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Here with Peter Vanderkaay. 

Q.   How does it feel to be an Olympian for the third straight Games? 
PETER VANDERKAAY:   It definitely feels good, I wanted to come in here and get on the team in my first race and I'm excited about it.   It's funny because I remember Klete Keller a former teammate telling me the third one was really hard to make.   That was definitely true tonight.   I had to gut that swim out. 

Q.   How did you decide to start training under Coach Troy? 
PETER VANDERKAAY:   Originally I've been training in Michigan for about eight years and I feel like I needed to change it up and I got out of my comfort zone a little bit and going down to Florida accomplished that.   I have a ton of respect for Coach Troy and the Florida program.   In fact, he recruited me when I was coming out of high school so I've known Greg for a while and it seemed like a good fit for me. 

Q.   Can you talk about the similarities and the differences between Michael Phelps and Ryan Lochte's training. 
PETER VANDERKAAY:   Now you guys know the real secret.   I'm just kidding.   I've been very fortunate to be able to train with both of those guys.   They're tremendous guys and excellent teammates and a lot of fun to train with.   I've been able to learn a lot from both of them. 
It's been a great experience and hopefully I can give something to them that will help them improve as well. 

Q.   What's it take in the next six weeks to get to where you need to be? 
PETER VANDERKAAY:   That's a good question.   The time I had tonight wasn't where I wanted to be.   I think I just might be a little bit in between a training phase right now, and that's not very much fun. 
I have some things to work on, and I think I have a lot of improvement that I can make in the next couple of weeks to hopefully compete with those guys. 

Q.   Were you worried heading into this week? 
PETER VANDERKAAY:   Honestly I didn't know what I was going to do.   I thought I would be good, but I thought I would be a little bit faster.   I might just need a little more rest from the intense training we have been doing to get down and drop a few more seconds.   That's something I will have to talk about with Coach Troy. 

Q.   Were you surprised by Connor's swim today? 
PETER VANDERKAAY:   Not at all, we go head‑to‑head in just about every practice and it's been fun to see him develop and make the team.   That means a lot to us being training partners so I think all that hard work has paid off. 

Q.   What's your schedule for the rest of the week? 
PETER VANDERKAAY:   For sure I'm in the 200 Free tomorrow morning, so I'll have to pony up for that one in the morning. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT