BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 25, 2017
Rikard Karlberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You twice started with bogeys and twice had three birdies in a row.  
RIKARD KARLBERG: The bogeys seem to be the difference today to have a chance.  But I played really good today, and I really played to win, and came a little bit short.  I hoped an eagle on last maybe would be enough but I think it's going to be 16, 17, to win.   
But I'm really happy with this week.  I played good, and it's been fantastic.   
 Q.  Reviewing your week, how disappointing is that 72 on Saturday, regarding the other rounds you played so solid and always under par?  
RIKARD KARLBERG: You know, the whole week I played solid from tee-to-green I think.  It was just that the putts didn't drop, and I mean, that's the difference.  It felt like the greens were a little bit quicker yesterday.  They dried out a bit, and I think that got me a little bit insecure on the greens, how firm I've got to hit it and how much they have got to break.  Things like that is the difference, and that's something I have to work on.   
 Q.  There are a couple of important tournaments coming up.  How did your confidence, change, as well, by playing so good?  What can you take into the upcoming weeks?  
RIKARD KARLBERG: I haven't played that great this year, and I just really worked the last two weeks to get my mind-set on winning again.  I think that's the important thing for me; that I had that mind-set, and even if I had a 72, I'm just a little bit short this week.  It just means that I'm there and the right mind-set is there.   
 Q.  How was that for you?  
RIKARD KARLBERG: It was really good today.  Even if I didn't get to the start I wanted, I just want to go out there and tried to somehow have a chance to win.  And then you need a quick start, and didn't really get there.  But I had a few straight ones and all of a sudden I was there and it was not that much happening for the other guys at the start.  So I thought, just give it a rip and we'll see.   
I'm very happy that I actually had some kind of chance in the end.   
 Q.  Maybe just a little bit outside, but are you going to wait around at all?  
RIKARD KARLBERG: I'm going to go to the players' lounge, yes.   
 Q.  Your best result in a while, how much confidence will this week give you?  
RIKARD KARLBERG: I think a little bit like the week in itself, of course, is a good result and I've been doing the right thing.  But even if I would have finished like 20th, I would have felt the same way there.  Of course, it's a nice result to have.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT