BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 29, 2016
Rikard Karlberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  65 with two bogeys and an ace on the card, one of the more eventful rounds of your career so far?  
RIKARD KARLBERG: Yeah, definitely.  I was a little bit tired today after Ireland.  It's a tough course.  It takes a lot out of you.  And started with a bogey, I thought, oh, well, but hit a great shot and it went in the hole.  I got pumped after that and just ride that wave.   
Very happy with the round.  Fortunately then I had some tough numbers into the pin and between clubs, but really happy.   
 Q.  It's a great finish for you, you've set the clubhouse target, and whichever way it falls, it's a lot of money's worth of toys for the new baby girls.  How is life for a dad of twins these days?  
RIKARD KARLBERG: It's a lot.  They take a lot of time but it's great.  They are soon six months, they start to see each other good, friends, and they are just beautiful and they enjoy every second of it.   
 Q.  How thrilled are you to shoot a 65 with a hole-in-one to close this tournament?  
RIKARD KARLBERG: I'm on clouds, I would say that.  When I came here and played my first practice round on Thursday -- sorry, Tuesday, it felt so tough.  Really tough golf course.  To be able to do that on a Sunday, I'm very thrilled.  Started, I was a little bit tired today.  It's been a lot of tough golf this week and Ireland and so on.  That hole-in-one gave me a boost there.   
 Q.  Start of play, you were a long way back, even further back after the first hole.  Talk us through the second, what you did and how it inspired you.  
RIKARD KARLBERG: I just thought, okay, let's take it easy.  We're a little bit out of balance.  Talked to my mental coach about it last night, so it's easy to get out but it's quick to get into, you never know.  Just tried to put a solid swing on it, 135 shot, my caddie said, just swing it like that, that would be good.  Just hit it perfect, and I just said, be good, and almost a slam dunk.   
 Q.  Were you aware when you hit top spot here and how did you react of that?  
RIKARD KARLBERG: I didn't really see the leaderboard or anything.  I knew we were going to be up there around the 12th hole.  I had a great look on eagle there, but I didn't hit a great putt but it's also, even if I hit it good, it would have missed to the right with the wrong read.   
But, you know, when I saw that, I just thought, okay, let's keep on take one shot at a time and try to do birdies, because it felt a little bit more scorable than yesterday with the pins and so on.   
You never know what you're going to end up, but I thought, I set the target minus ten when I was out there for the last few holes but didn't really get it.   
 Q.  What is the gut feeling now; good finish but not quite enough?  
RIKARD KARLBERG: Yeah, I think it will be at least two from, but you never know.  You never know.  It's tough.  The greens are quite firm.  The wind is blowing up there and the crosswinds coming down from left-to-right and then it's not the easiest thing when you're a right player, I think.  So you never know.   
 Q.  Presumably, though, this is good, isn't it, ahead of the U.S. Open qualifiers, as well as the Nordea Masters next week?  
RIKARD KARLBERG: Yeah, first going to play 36 holes tomorrow.  It's a lot of golf.  Put on a lot of fluids and nutrition in the body to get ready for that, and then the home tournament in Sweden.  I'm thrilled to go there and play and see my family, see my twin girls again, and also a lot of friends will be there.  So it will be a fantastic week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT