ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 2, 2015
Anthony Wall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What are your thoughts on 11-under at halfway?
ANTHONY WALL: Yeah, it was a good day.  I didn't really do much going on that back nine to start but I managed to have a good run on the front, so I had my back nine, great total.  Any time you get double figures in two rounds is good golf.
Q. Including a whole run of birdies on the back for you, as well?
ANTHONY WALL: Funny enough, I couldn't get the honour because James Morrison had four of the same as me so we were chuckling about that.  Good day, very slow today, it was tough.  All the cross fairways makes it difficult and funny enough it was probably warmer now than at nine morning so probably a good draw for us.
Q. The winds have changed so much today on you, haven't they?
ANTHONY WALL: Yeah, I think they changed three times and actually once it made quite a difference for us and then it played a little bit tougher to finish.  I think at the end of the day, it's beautiful weather with the sun shining.
Q. Presumably, you've played this course in so many different conditions that anything when the sun is shining, you'll relish it anyway?
ANTHONY WALL: Beautiful and I think everyone is enjoying themselves.
Q. When you're playing, are there memories of July?
ANTHONY WALL: Absolutely.  I found myself commenting a number of times, which is difficult because you're trying to stay in the moment.  My wife said to me this morning:  Remember what you did, remember your children were there and I did that and I really enjoyed it today.  It's just great memories and I'll have them forever, and especially doing it here, as well, is even more special.  Hoylake was fabulous but to do it at St. Andrews in my 40th year, as well, and I'll always take that with me.
Q. How does Carnoustie compare?
ANTHONY WALL: I love Carnoustie, I have to say.  I think it's one of the best links ever made, if not the best.  I've always played well around there and I look forward to another good day.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT