THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2015
Anthony Wall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Anthony, another good round.ANTHONY WALL: Yeah, it was a great week.  In reflection, it's a tough back nine.  I hit three 3-woods into some of the par-4s coming in, so that says how hard it's playing.  A couple of putts would have gone in on the back nine, missed a makeable one at the last, but as it happens it probably hasn't cost me getting into next year, so that doesn't feel quite so bad.  Great week.  Unbelievable experience to have my family with me.  I've just loved every minute of it.  It's been fantastic.Q. Was the goal to make next year?ANTHONY WALL: Absolutely.  Absolutely.  When you get off to a good start, you want to be there or thereabouts in the weekend, and coming down the back nine, certainly after five off six holes I thought we could win this, but the main thing was just to have a solid back nine, which was difficult I have to be honest.  I did try really hard, but it was hard work.Q. Tell us about your family.  Now they've seen what dad does, what's their reaction?ANTHONY WALL: Just they've loved every minute of it, Patrik and Nicholas.  They love their golf and all their friends love their golf.  It just inspires them to play golf, and it's a great way of learning through your childhood, learning respect with people and golf clubs and things, and I think sometimes people lose that, so if they can keep having that mentality through their lives, I'll be happy.Q. You're coming back from injury.  Do you sort of appreciate this more because of that?ANTHONY WALL: Yeah, it's a funny thing, isn't it, when you're 20, 25 you don't think too much, but now I'm 40, I'm happy to be still doing the job I love, and long may it continue.Q. What's next for you?ANTHONY WALL: I'll probably cut the grass tomorrow.  (Laughter.)  I do love cutting grass.Q. Have you got a good mower?ANTHONY WALL: I do.  The back will be fine.  I'll be fine.  The wife will be backing me up.  We'll have a great time.  We love being at home as a family.Q. (Inaudible.)ANTHONY WALL: I think so, because Hoylake was fantastic, I loved every minute of it, but I probably didn't know what I was doing at the time.  This means so much more because I've got children with me, I've got a beautiful wife with me.  All those things are just fantastic.  The weather has been rubbish at times, so I've battled through all of those things and to come out the other side after one or two issues I've had, I've really enjoyed it.  It's been fantastic.  It doesn't get any better.  It's the best place to play golf, St. Andrews.Q. Did you start to think maybe if I can just carry this on, I could really be setting a target?ANTHONY WALL: Well, absolutely, yeah.  I felt like I was birdieing everything.  That's how it felt.  But you know, it's difficult.  I've played so many times that back nine, and in big tournaments coming down the last few holes playing well, and the top few, as well, you know it's going to be difficult, so you just have to -- you've got to hole a few putts, and I hit a putt on 16 which I thought I was robbed.Q. 14 seems to be catching a lot of people out today.ANTHONY WALL: Well, there's nowhere to hit it off the tee.  You're hitting it straight into those bunkers.  I hit a soft driver to play short of the bunkers that you don't normally even look at.  That's how hard it's playing.Q. (Inaudible.)ANTHONY WALL: I think I was one off the lead at the time, yeah, which is fabulous.  I loved it.Q. Where are you now in the Race to Dubai?ANTHONY WALL: I'm in the 50s, so I don't know where this will put me.  It might push me up a couple, but there's loads of events to go.Q. (Inaudible.)ANTHONY WALL: For someone like myself, the goal is always to win tournaments and also to finish in the top 60 in the Race to Dubai.  Then you feel like you're doing well and the work you're putting in is justified.Q. (Inaudible.)ANTHONY WALL: Yeah, it's a tough phase, that, when you've been on Tour 19 years.  Because journeymen don't last 19 years in modern-day golf.  The average lifespan of a golfer is about seven years so I'd look at it as I'm slightly more talented than that.  But yeah, it is a journeyman actually.  Most blokes in the world work quite hard at their jobs.  If I'm a journeyman, that's fine, because I'm doing the most I can do.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT