COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 23, 2014
Anthony Wall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Anthony, 66 around a course that you obviously enjoy?  
ANTHONY WALL:   It's a lovely course, I did putt well, but I didn't make many mistakes.   Today to convert as I did, probably holed five or six normal putts that you need to hole to be at the top of the leaderboard.  
   
 Q.   Bogey‑free and seems to have pushed you into a lovely position?   
ANTHONY WALL:   Absolutely.   It's a long day, it's only half past ten in the morning, it's eight hours of golf or something to play but great position to be in.  
   
 Q.   And playing with Thomas Levet and nobody else, so you're always having to wait on the group in front?  
ANTHONY WALL:   We hang back and tried to play as slow as possible the front nine so when we get to the back, we weren't waiting.   We took our time and didn't catch anyone until 15 so it wasn't too bad.   
   
 Q.   Tell us your story, because we saw you play well not only here, but Desert Swing last year and then you took seven months off and you came back and you've still got some issues, haven't you?  
ANTHONY WALL:   Yeah, I've had a bad hip which led to quite a bad ankle, because I spent all my time leaning on my right ankle, so when I stand, I'm sort of on the way but I've still got a little bit to go, so I sort of sympathize when I see tennis players like Andy Murray, obviously a different level of fitness than me and ten years younger but he's still not right and it's been four months, and mine is eight, nine months.   It's difficult because you're trying to practice hard, as well, and you're not settled.   
If I was at home messing around it wouldn't be so bad but because I'm trying to get out and do my job, it's harder to keep the level you need to play.   These are big, strong courses, and you have to hit it hard, these young kids are strong, and just to keep up you have to hit it hard and you have to throw your body at it.   It's difficult, but I'm managing it.   
   
 Q.   Do you have to treat yourself and go to the physio?   
ANTHONY WALL:   Yeah, I'll probably have a second breakfast, it's so early and I have a second physio that's come over with me, he's here for three weeks with me and it's just a case of trying to keep everything loose, because they all just want to bind up all the time, they are all protecting the hip, that's the trouble.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT