ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 13, 2012
Anthony Wall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Three birdies early on, what was the reason for that brick wall?
ANTHONY WALL:   Hit one bad drive in the bunker and had to chip out and hit the wrong club into 9, went just over the green and ran into one of the collection areas and just left me a difficult chip.   Probably should have putted it.   Then took me a little while to get back into it, played 10,11, 12, solidly, birdied 12 and that got me back on and then all was fine.

Q.   Is it galling when you drop shots and the conditions are as good as they are? 
ANTHONY WALL:   It is two lovely days and you do expect to be making birdies and you don't want to drop too many.   All in all a pleasing day.

Q.   And the picture overall is good, 9‑under on this course is lovely after two days?
ANTHONY WALL:   Yeah, I really struggled with momentum here.   I didn't know what to expect, but sometimes you find courses and you expect you never seem to get there, but that's not the case today, so that's great. 

Q.   We touched on this at Royal Portrush, but what is it about links golf in particular that you like? 
ANTHONY WALL:   Well, probably a little bit more space.   I think visually, it's probably actually makes you more concentrate. 

Q.   You say about the space, but essentially it's the accuracy of finding the fairways more often?
ANTHONY WALL:   It is.   It is.   But I think the key over last few weeks has been the short game.   I've hit the ball really well and putted beautifully since I've gone to a new putter and where I've always struggled on links golf is sort of 15‑footers.   These last few weeks I seem to be getting better; so long may it continue. 

Q.   How do the greens shape up at Castle Stuart?
ANTHONY WALL:   They are a good surface.   They are actually a little bit inconsistent because the slopes are so severe in places, it's actually quite difficult to judge.   It adds another dimension to a links green.   But they are a good surface and they will be around for a long time. 

Q.   Finding the right places on the greens?
ANTHONY WALL:   That's the key, actually, there's no point in being above the hole.   It's difficult because you'll get a quick one and then the next you'll be up the hill and it's very slow so you do have to think about that.   But all in all it's been a great day. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT