THE IRISH OPEN
July 1, 2012
Anthony Wall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
For myself, I don't know what happened at the second.   Hit three terrible tee shots, found the second one, and then it was always going to be difficult, because on a demanding, championship golf course you're trying to find your swing; tough circumstances, which I battled along.   
I held some great putts, which is great, because that's always been a weakness in my game.   So to have a feeling like that was great.   
So I just kept going, and on the last, I had no idea where I was in the tournament.   I knew I was two behind, and I thought, well, if I hit the fairway, whether it be a 4‑iron or a 6‑iron, second shot, putts a bit of pressure on him.   
But the shots never got any easier, whether I hit the fairway or not, it was a difficult tee shot.     So you had to hit the good shots.   And fair play to him.   Great week but overall I am disappointed I have to say.   
   
 Q.   After that horrible number at the second, you had to be proud of yourself the way you fought back; you could have fallen away.   
ANTHONY WALL:   Well, I picked six shots up after that, so that says it all, even with dropping one at the last.   But I'm proud of myself, but obviously I will go home disappointed.  
   
 Q.   One of those things that I think when you reflect you'll feel a little better than do you right at the moment.   
ANTHONY WALL:   Probably.   Because I expected to win today.   Just wasn't there.   I think if those tee shots had not have happened, it might have been, the way I was putting.   After the first three rounds, I was probably going as good as anyone, so it is disappointing.   As I say, there's some great hope there for the future.   
   
 Q.   With the trials and tribulations you've had and the back problems, it bodes well, doesn't it?   
ANTHONY WALL:   It does, that putting is now a strength, because it's been a weakness through my career, not holing enough.   I've always been good on the little ones and the long ones, but mid‑range, I don't hole enough, where this week I've holed bundles and that makes me feel that I can compete, because my long game normally is pretty good.   
   
 Q.   And overall performance on a tough golf course in very changeable conditions?  
ANTHONY WALL:   It's pleasing.   As I say, it's disappointing, but I'll take stock and move onto next week.   
   
 Q.   You did mention Jamie, that's a terrific victory for the man you played alongside, isn't it.   
ANTHONY WALL:   Yeah, people have doubted him a little bit.   I've never doubted him.   He's a class act and a super, super player, and he deserves everything he gets because he does work hard and he's got loads of talent.   So good luck to him.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT