BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 27, 2012
Anthony Wall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Quite different playing conditions from yesterday to today, and also your score has changed.   How was it today? 
ANTHONY WALL:   It was gorgeous out there this morning.   It was pristine.   Went from being tough yesterday to very playable today.   The greens were superb, so it was a good day for scoring. 

Q.   Looking back to last week, your game was very good, you came back at the weekend strongly; what do you feel this week? 
ANTHONY WALL:   Yeah, game's good.   There's no real problems with it.   You know, last week a little bit rusty early on, so I found my feet towards the weekend and I think I've just carried that on.   So, exciting for me. 

Q.   Looking at your excellent round on the weekend last week, what's your strategy for this afternoon and the weekend? 
ANTHONY WALL:   Rest this afternoon and then Saturday and Sunday, just do the same again.   There's lots of birdies out there.   I was lucky to hole a couple of good putts today and I hit a lot of good tee shots.   So if you find the fairway, you could give yourself some good chances. 

Q.   Two markedly different days?
ANTHONY WALL:   Yeah, yesterday I tried to sort of not play myself out of it.   It's very difficult, you could have had anything yesterday.   But then it was surprisingly calm where you were hitting the ball from.   There's a lot of sheltered areas. 
So today, you knew the scoring would be good.   I thought it might be better but there's still a long way to go this afternoon.   It's been certainly a tale of two halves, I have to say.   Today was very scorable this morning and yesterday was just a hanging around day. 

Q.   Almost you have to feel your boots when the weather is like this?
ANTHONY WALL:   Well, we are around such good players nowadays.   Years ago there was probably only half the field, and now they are all really good.   So you've just got to get stuck in early on.

Q.   Yet it is stressing this is a difficult track regardless?
ANTHONY WALL:   It's not easy.   It's not a pushover.   It's a hard walk, as well.   Been out a couple of weeks and backwards and forwards on the bus every day, it does take it out of you, and you have to be mindful of that, and you've got to concentrate hard, because it will bite you. 

Q.   I bet you like that buggy ride from the first to second, that's a very steep hill?
ANTHONY WALL:   I ran it on Wednesday, and I've been recovering ever since.   I think there should be buggies on every hole but that's just me.   (Laughing).

Q.   Give an indication of what it's like playing with such elevation changes out there. 
ANTHONY WALL:   It's difficult because most of the elevations seem to be from high down, and it always feels like the fairway is narrow.   Where I think going uphill, it always feels wider.   And there seems to be an awful lot of downhill shots.   So it does make it trickier.   You just have to sort of pick your number and stick with it. 

Q.   Tricky in judging that length, because visually you'll think one thing and presumably the numbers tell you something else. 
ANTHONY WALL:   Yeah, there's a bit of width in places.   You just have to make sure you use it. 

Q.   What are your thoughts with your position on the board?
ANTHONY WALL:   I'm happy.   I drove the ball well, really well.   And I actually holed a few putts today, which was encouraging.   I actually holed a couple of 20‑footers for birdie which doesn't often happen which was great.   But the greens are perfect, and so I'm looking forward to a good weekend.   I think there will be a lot of Europeans and a few Koreans up there.   I think it will be an exciting weekend.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT