THE ABU DHABI GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 18, 2009
Anthony Wall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ANTHONY WALL: It's been a brilliant week; I would have been happier if I would won, but second, third, quite happy. First week out, you don't know what you're going to get. This is a good score, and I've had four good scores the first week out and I couldn't be happier, really.  
  
  Q. Sounds ridiculous to say you're 18-under and only fourth, marvellous scoring?  
 ANTHONY WALL: I think 10-under is 32. That's 2 1/2 under a day, you're breaking 70 every day and you're still not in the Top-30, so that says how strong The European Tour is.   
  
  Q. It does say how strong the Tour is, because that's not a weak and easy course by any means, is it.   
 ANTHONY WALL: No, I'd put that in the top -- it feels top five or six in the year of difficulty, whether it plays that way because the condition is so perfect, some courses we play, they will be easier but because the conditions are harder with wind and cold and stuff and the greens not being as quality as these, sometimes it doesn't even itself out.   
 But no, it's a brilliant scores and it is difficult. You miss fairways and you drop shots.   
  
  Q. I guess you've seen that in the past, if the wind blows here, you are in trouble.   
 ANTHONY WALL: It's been nice to have a week like this, not too difficult weather-wise and get the tour back to where it should be.  
  
  Q. When you were playing the back nine in particular, were you aware of the way that Paul Casey was frittering shots?  
 ANTHONY WALL: I all feel that Paul Casey will always fritter shots. He's mega-talented but he always seems to like to give someone else a chance coming down the nine. It's amazing, I don't know whether he switches off because he's five, six ahead, I don't know what it is, because he's got bags of talent and he's long, but it seems to happen and seems to happen regularly.   
 I think you'll always get a chance, doesn't matter who it is, you'll always get a chance and when I birdied 10, I thought come on, push on, and I birdied 13 and I thought, you know, and you look at the boards are you're still five behind.   
 But you never know, and I just wanted to push on, but dropped two bad shots and missed two fairways and two bogeys. So I felt like it was going to be a chance, but I think when I saw the board at 12 and saw he was 24-under, I thought that was it, but then he did give us a chance.   
  
  Q. Lovely start to the year, though.   
 ANTHONY WALL: Yeah, brilliant, great start. Yes, brilliant start. It's a great field, lots of World Ranking point points I would imagine they in, and especially me 2-putting the last from all that distance, I wouldn't have practiced many of those this winter so nice to get it stone dead.  
  
  Q. On to Qatar and Dubai?  
 ANTHONY WALL: Yeah, I can't wait. I play those two and I have two weeks off and I'll play Perth and Bali.  
  
  Q. Perth is a wonderful track and the wind always blows there.   
 ANTHONY WALL: Yeah, two of the top golf courses and Dubai is a slight different test again, it's the same condition, perfect as always, but a few more dog-legs and have to shape it a little bit more. So three brilliant weeks.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT