THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2006
Anthony Wall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








STEWART McDOUGALL:  Ladies and gentlemen, Anthony Wall, 5 under par, 67.  Did you think at this stage you'd be leading The Open Championship?
ANTHONY WALL:  No reason why not; I have two legs and two arms.  I played some good golf.  You need the luck.  That's the main thing, and here I am.
Q.  Did you come in knowing that since people didn't have a lot of experience at this place that anybody playing well may have a chance?
ANTHONY WALL:  I think so.  It's the total unknown quantity.  No one really knows how to play here.  There has been no big events here for quite some time.  But it is a quality golf course.  And if you play well you will score well, there's no missing around that.  I think the keys are to hit the fairways, because there are birdie shots there.  But I think the bunkering here is as good as anywhere in the world.  I think if you start to be too greedy, you will come a cropper.
Q.  Can you confirm that your father is still a Black Cab driver?
ANTHONY WALL:  No, he hasn't been a cab driver for many years.  He's been either retired or watching me.  He's been retired for a few years.
Q.  Until you got to Troon or Sandwich a few years ago, were you to begin to despair of ever playing the event, let alone leading it?
ANTHONY WALL:  I missed qualifying six times with one or two shots.  I've been playing well this year, and all the Orders of Merit, I was missing by a place or two.  When I holed that putt to finish second, it was a huge bonus for me.
Q.  Can you tell us about what you learned from Nick Faldo as an amateur?
ANTHONY WALL:  His dedication was probably the big thing.  He played in a different era, and I think without his sort of    his knowledge that you could watch on television, I don't think English golf would be quite where it is today.  But I think he made one comment years ago when he won at St. Andrews, he had a different plan for all four winds, and that's what I had this week, because I think position plays is the way to go.  And I took that on board.
Q.  I understand you used to practice with him?
ANTHONY WALL:  Yeah, he often used to hit balls.  It was great to sit and watch him.
Q.  How much has Paul Casey, what he's done, been an inspiration to you?  You began together at the Fox Hills Foundation and all that years ago, and he has gone on to do what he's done.  You've been sort of just in his shadow a bit, but how much has that been an inspiration to you?
ANTHONY WALL:  Paul's a quality player, always has been, ever since we were 12 or 13.  Again, just proves to me that it's the game of golf on a day, and anybody that works on the right things can achieve.  And he's a prime example of that.  We used to play together and we were always working hard.  And it's proved    he's come through and that's what it's about.  It's about working hard on the right things, not taking things for granted and keep grinding away.  Because eventually something good will happen for you.
Q.  You've got broad shoulders, I think broad enough to take the lead into the second day.  Are you going to be able to take that pressure?  And talking of pressure, what is it like being a QPR fan these days?
ANTHONY WALL:  I think we're struggling to be honest, the QPR.  I think we have a poor season, fingers crossed we don't.

I value every shot and I've sort of worked things out a bit more in my mind the last year or two, I've grown up a lot.  Obviously it's a massive event in the sporting world.  You've got to
Q.  What age were you when you first watched Faldo, and did you have to work up courage to approach him and ask him things?
ANTHONY WALL:  He's a top notch guy.  I was about 14 or 15, and he was pretty top man at that time.
Q.  You weren't daunted speaking to him, you went straight up to him?
ANTHONY WALL:  I was slightly daunted.  I think people still are now.  They won't talk to certain players, even someone of    even of Tiger, anyone like that, they're all such great players, and if they've achieved a lot.  But as I say, you keep working hard and there's no reason why you can't beat these blokes.
Q.  Assuming this is the highlight of your Open career to date, what would you consider the previous best moment?
ANTHONY WALL:  Of the Open?
Q.  Yes.
ANTHONY WALL:  I think I shot 1 under in the third round at St. Georges.  Only a few people shot under par on the third.  I started bogey, bogey, so that was quite an achievement for me.  That was my first Open, I made the cut, and to go out and shoot a good score under tough conditions was very satisfying.
Q.  You seem to be remarkably composed given your situation.  Is this the way you are or has the enormity of the situation not gripped you or why are you so nonchalant?
ANTHONY WALL:  I've got two kids; I'll be changing nappers in an hour.  I'm happy to be here.  I'm happy to be playing well and know I'm playing well.  And I'll go and do my best tomorrow, and worrying about it isn't going to make me play any better.
Q.  Does having two children, does that explain why you were up so early the other morning?
ANTHONY WALL:  I like getting up early.  I've always been an early riser.  It does help; one wakes you up at half past 4:00 and you're watching the clubhouse from across the road, watching people wandering around and sitting around doing nothing.  It makes you twitchy; you want to go out and play.
Q.  What time do you usually get up?
ANTHONY WALL:  Most mornings probably about 5:00 now with the kids.  I think I might try and do something different tomorrow.
STEWART McDOUGALL:  Thanks very much.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT