UBS HONG KONG OPEN
December 1, 2011
Jason Hak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:   We have Jason Hak with us, 1‑under par 69.   A great start in these tough conditions.   Just talk us through your day.  
JASON HAK:   It was a really windy day.   The course plays tough, and I had some consistent starts, making some pars, but went into some bogeys and finished my front nine with two over.   
On the back nine, my caddie told me, just stay focussed, stay in it.   We have got more holes to go, and eventually we started making some birdies on the par5, and there was a great hole‑out from the bunker on 16, two pars coming in.   It was a round of 69.   I felt really good in this wind, and just tried to do whatever I can to continue this good play.   
   
 Q.   You've had many good rounds here over the years, where would you rank this one today?   
JASON HAK:   I think this one came harder, and I tried to grind it out there a lot.   I had some great up‑and‑downs and holed some great putts for par.   
I think it definitely played the hardest of previous years.   
   
 Q.   With the wind blowing when you started the day, did you set a number in your mind before you teed off?   
JASON HAK:   I don't really like to set a number.   It's kind of putting pressure to look at that number.   So just try to do it hole‑by‑hole, shot‑by‑shot.   Just whatever it takes to play well.   
   
 Q.   Can you just talk us through your year in America, what you've achieved over there in the past few months or so.   
JASON HAK:   Actually my parents came back to China starting last year in January.   I've been living on my own with my brother, taking care of him.   But we have a guardian, though.   I played a couple of junior events, the AJGA events.   I won at Innisbrook and the Rolex Tournament of Champions, and I got my ranking up to No. 1 in the States, which is pretty exciting.   
Just looking forward to next year going to college and I just can't wait to go to Georgia Tech.   
   
 Q.   How much do you like coming back and playing here?   
JASON HAK:   I just love Hong Kong.   I was born here and I'm from here.   I just love coming back.   It definitely felt like home coming back.   Just giving me a lot of support, giving me a lot of confidence.   Just really appreciate all the support.   Really built up my confidence.   
   
 Q.   In previous years, you've essentially almost been under the radar to some extent.   This year, you're the centre of the media focus, you're turning up at the big events.   Being ready for the event, has that been a challenge?   
JASON HAK:   I guess when you are not on the radar, you're more relaxed and not as much pressure.   But if you want to be great player, you always want to take those challenges.   You want to solve those problems so you can be a great player.   
I hope I can do that.   That's also a great learning experience, since I'm such a young age like 17, because not many people get to have a chance to learn this experience this young.   
So I definitely feel good about it to take it.   
   
 Q.   The first two years, you had your father caddie for you and this time you have your coach where you started playing golf caddying for you.   What's the difference?  
JASON HAK:   I mean, when my dad caddied for me, I do feel really comfortable having him.   He gave me a lot of support, tried to keep me in the game, even though if I like lose myself in the golf course.   
But this year, I had my original coach from China caddying for me.   We talked a lot on the golf course, and tried to plan how we are going to play this golf course.   
I guess just my coach did help me a lot.   I think it doesn't matter who is on your bag.   You just try to play your own game.     
   
 Q.   What was your experience like on Tuesday and Wednesday being on stage with the leading golfers, and what can you learn from them?   
JASON HAK:   Having an opportunity to enjoy Tuesday and Wednesday with all of the top players at the press conference and going out and getting all of the media attention, it's a wonderful experience.  
Right now I'm still an amateur but hopefully one day I'll become one of them, because there's a lot to learn from each one of them.   They all have their specialty, and maybe if I can pick their brains and get a specialty from each one of them, maybe I'll become one of the top players in the world in the near future.   
   
 Q.   Talking to Rory just outside, is that the sort of role model you would like to follow?   
JASON HAK:   Definitely.   I love Rory.   He's great player.   I always look up to him.   
Rory McIlroy is still very young, but to me I can still learn a lot, because no matter if it's inside or outside the ropes, he really knows how to control himself and perform at the highest level.   That's something I would love to learn from Rory McIlroy.  
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:   Jason, thanks very much and good luck.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT