UBS HONG KONG OPEN
November 21, 2008
Jason Hak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  SHENTON GOMEZ: Jason, two 70s for you, very good round. Just run us through, how did it feel for you being a 14-year-old and with all of the attention, how has it been for you the past two days? 
 JASON HAK: It was pretty good. I talked to a lot of people and I just feel maybe a little nervous, but still pretty good. 

 Q. You've never played this course before, right?
 JASON HAK: Right, until the practise round. 

 Q. So these are pretty good scores; how did you deal with the golf course for the first time?
 JASON HAK: I thought it will be a little more windy, but the weather has been pretty good and it's nice. I think it makes the golf course easier, and the greens really bounce and that makes it a lot harder. I just play to keep the ball in play and do my best. 
 SHENTON GOMEZ: You've managed to play in a strong field. Have you managed to speak to any of the players, or did any of the players approach you or did any of that happen this week.
 JASON HAK: Not yet. I said hi to Bernhard Langer, and I speak to Liang Wen-Chong and Zhang Lian-Wei, and they were nice to me. 
 SHENTON GOMEZ: Did they give you any tips? 
 JASON HAK: No, they told me to play well. Everybody is pretty nice out here. 

 Q. If you make the cut this week, do you know that you would have broken the record? 
 JASON HAK: No, they just told me. 

 Q. This is the record, but possibly you are the youngest player to qualify for not only the Hong Kong Open, but also an event on The European Tour. How do you feel about that? 
 JASON HAK: I feel pretty happy. I played pretty well and tried my best. I think that's important, and that's it. 

 Q. I just wanted to ask, have you got a Web site? Where do we go to find out information about you, because you're not particularly well-known at the moment. 
 JASON HAK: No, I don't think so. 

 Q. You maybe need one after this week. 
 JASON HAK: (Smiling).

 Q. Who is your golfing idol, your favourite golfer? 
 JASON HAK: Tiger Woods, definitely. 

 Q. But do you know whose record you have broken? 
 JASON HAK: They just told me it was Sergio García. 

 Q. He is the World Ranking No. 2 now. 
 JASON HAK: Yeah, I always watch him on the TV. He's a really, really good player. 

 Q. After this round, will you think of turning pro or any idea of turning pro? 
 JASON HAK: I have no ideas of turning pro, because it's only one tournament here. It doesn't really tell the whole story. 
 SHENTON GOMEZ: You have a busy golf schedule. How do you balance yourself, your studying in school right now, how do you balance golf and school? 
 JASON HAK: My school let me go on-line and check out the homework and do it. It was the ones that I can send to my teacher, and then I would send it to them. And if it's not, I will keep it and wait until I get back to give it back to them. 

 Q. What's your home course?
 JASON HAK: Timacuan Golf and Country Club. 

 Q. Where is that? 
 JASON HAK: It's back in America. I live in Orlando at Lake Mary, and that's where I practise and where I always play. 
 SHENTON GOMEZ: Thanks a lot, Jason. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT