THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
July 19, 2020
Bo Hoag
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. You played here in 2012; how did this experience differ from that year?
 BO HOAG:   You know, I was just kind of a kid at that point.  I didn't really know what I was taking on.  But yeah, it was incredible to play right out of college in the hometown PGA TOUR event.
 You know, I've gotten a lot better as a player since then.  It was a little different without the fans out there this week, but still incredible to play the event on such a good golf course.  Golf's greatest champion, Jack Nicklaus, it's his event, so it was an honor.
 Q. Conditions were pretty brutal out there, obviously.  Have you ever seen the golf course this difficult?
 BO HOAG:   No, not even close.  I've never seen it play this difficult.  I had maybe a little bit of a disadvantage because I've played it so many times the other way, when it's soft, so it's such an adjustment to what I normally do.  But yeah, it's fair.  It's a good test.  I think there needs to be more tournaments like this on TOUR if they could do it.  So yeah, whoever wins will certainly earn it.
 Q. I know it's not the result you were looking for, but what were some things you felt like you did really well this week and what were some things you struggled with?
 BO HOAG:   Yeah, just gutted out a good round on Friday to make it to the weekend.  Played a great round on Friday.  I struggled the other three days.  But I think all in all, this is the first time I've kind of played a course in these conditions for four days in a tournament.  I don't think we've seen anything like this on the Korn Ferry TOUR, and this is my first year on the PGA TOUR, and this is probably going to be the fiery event of the year I would say.  Just a good learning experience.  It's the first time I've seen the course play like this, so put it in the memory bank and build off of it.
 Q. How many times have you played this course?
 BO HOAG:   I don't know, probably in the hundreds somewhere probably.  Yeah, hundreds.
 Q. Can you describe the level of difficulty?
 BO HOAG:   Oh, I can't put a number on it.  Geez, I'd probably say just from an average day, it's probably seven shots harder, seven or eight shots harder I would say.
 Q. You haven't experienced anywhere else, playing anywhere else that's this difficult?
 BO HOAG:   I mean, I've played some tough ones in college with the cold weather and whatnot that were really tough, but as far as controlling your golf ball and having a good game plan -- I think whoever wins this thing is going to certainly deserve it.
 Q. Was this week what you wanted it to be?
 BO HOAG:   Yeah, yeah.  It's my first year on the PGA TOUR, so to put things in perspective a little bit, a year ago I was kind of just trying to earn my card.  If you told me I could play the weekend a year ago, I think that would have been a good little goal.  I'll just take this year and build off of and get ready for next year.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT