FRYS.COM OPEN
October 23, 2009
Nick O'Hern
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q. (Question regarding today after being so hot yesterday.)  
 NICK O'HERN: Yeah, I hit a lot of good putts. I thought I had 30 or 32 putts today. 24 yesterday. I was probably hitting the ball pretty similar. I didn't hit it as close as I did yesterday. 15, 20-footers today were just sort of burning the edge rather than going in the middle. That always makes the difference.  
  
  Q. 9-under par through two days. You've got to be really pleased with where you stand.   
 NICK O'HERN: If we get another 9-under for the next two days I think we'll probably be a good shot. You know, it's hard to say. The weather is obviously gonna be very good and I think scoring will be good. Hopefully I won't be too far from the lead by the end the day.   
  
  Q. Tell me what happened on the second hole.   
 NICK O'HERN: Yeah, just a driver, 3-wood short of the green. About a 35-meter pitch up the hill. I didn't actually see it. I just hit a nice shot and just I heard the pin rattle and it went in. The caddie told me it went in.  
  
  Q. How far out were you?  
 NICK O'HERN: About 35 meters.   
  
  Q. Nice. You're gonna make me do the math.   
 NICK O'HERN: Sorry. 38, 40 yards.   
  
  Q. After 28 on that nine yesterday, are you playing that nine and tend to press a little bit if you're...  
 NICK O'HERN: Well, it's completely different conditions. I mean, I hit driver 5-wood into 12 today, so that kind of -- you know, whereas yesterday I was playing a lot shorter.   
 The course is complete plea different this morning. Second nine was pretty similar when it started to warm up. You take each day as it comes. You shoot 28, 35, so be it.   
  
  Q. First off this morning.   
 NICK O'HERN: First out. We got (indiscernible) greens that front nine. I didn't really take advantage of it. It's a bit too early for me, 6:45. Took me a few holes to wake up.  
  
  Q. When you did eagle that hole, were you thinking, Here we go again?  
 NICK O'HERN: A little bit.   
  
  Q. Hoping, anyway.   
 NICK O'HERN: I was hoping that, yeah. I was playing well, and I thought, Well, that's as good a start as I'm gonna get. Just keep the momentum going.   
 I just hit one bad shot on 18. Probably was a little too aggressive with my second shot. I didn't want to miss the green left, and probably would have been better than missing it right.   
 It wasn't a good way to finish that nine, but as I said, I was happy with how I played the second nine just to get over that as quick as possible and shoot a couple under.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT