QUAIL HOLLOW CHAMPIONSHIP
April 30, 2009
Nick O'Hern
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Nick, tell us about the round and how it went out there for you today.   
 NICK O'HERN: Yeah, I played pretty nicely. I got off to a good start, a couple under on the back nine, which was my first nine, and then decided to do an Aquaman impression on 18 and hit it in the water and got in there, had a go at it and made a double, so that was interesting.   
 But I played really nicely on the other side, shot I think four birdies in the last six holes, so 3-under was about what I should have scored.  
  
  Q. Were the conditions good for scoring today?  
 NICK O'HERN: Conditions were great. There wasn't much breeze about. The greens are a little firm, but they are receptive and they're rolling beautifully. It's one of those golf courses if you play well you can shoot a good score.  
  
  Q. In terms of the conditions, the way the golf course has been set up, the rough being down a little bit this year, are you guys enjoying that? Is it a good change?  
 NICK O'HERN: I always enjoy the rough being down, yeah. It's good. The one thing you don't need is long rough when the greens are firm. The easiest way to toughen up a golf course is to firm up the greens. You don't need a lot of rough, you just need enough so that it's tough to control the ball out of, which is what they've done this week, and it's just perfect conditions.  
  
  Q. Getting off to a good start obviously is important, but now following that up tomorrow with the afternoon time.   
 NICK O'HERN: Yeah, I go in the afternoon tomorrow so I've got a lie-in, and it's a long way to go until Sunday. We're just trying to put ourselves in position.   
  
  Q. How fast were the greens?  
 NICK O'HERN: They're rolling pretty good, yeah. I almost putted one off I think it's the 5th green, the par-5, today, and it was a couple rolls from going off the front. They're rolling really quick. The downhill putts are very, very slippery. I'm sure if the sun comes out and they dry out, they'll just get quicker.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT