VALERO TEXAS OPEN
October 9, 2008
Nick O'Hern
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   CHRIS REIMER: Nick, 5-under, solid round. 
 Just talk about what went right out there today.
 NICK O'HERN: I got off to a bit of slow start. Started on the back-9 and bogeyed my first hole of the day, No. 10. Pretty scrappy, but I found a nice rhythm and made a birdie on that 9 to turn level and I think I made four in a row on my second 9.
 So I'm just trying to get on a bit of a roll with the birdies there and the course kind of suits my game. Reminds me of what we play in Australia. Length isn't a factor. Shape it around there. If you can get the putter going on these greens, you can shoot a good score.
 CHRIS REIMER: Questions?

 Q. The putter, I know -- Tim Herron was in here a second ago and said the greens were a little thatchy. He was able to get some putts going. That's always been the secret here. How was it for you as far as the greens today?
 NICK O'HERN: Yeah. Little bit all over the place. But the key, if you hit a solid putt it would roll true. When you miss it, the putt really got exaggerated and you look like a 15 handicapper, really. 
 If you hit solid putts, you got the ball rolling, you had a good chance to make plenty and with the way the course was set-up today, lots of short clubs in your hand because you can really roll it out there on these fairways and plenty of wedges into greens. That's just a matter of time and give yourself lots of chances.

 Q. Speaking of that, I know you shoot 5-under, the tournament 5-under, you will feel terrific. Probably going to be among 15 guys at 5-under. At this tournament in particular, everybody seems to go low.
 NICK O'HERN: It's the first time I've played here. The golf course sets up that way. I mean 5-under is a good score. I felt okay but I felt I could have shot quite a few better. I'm sure a lot of the guys will always say that when they shoot 5-under.
 It's one of those courses that looks as though something towards 20-under is going to win the week, I imagine. Depends on the wind, I would think. 
 It looks at though on the weekend it's really going to firm up nicely and maybe 1, 2-under might be a good score by the end of the week. I don't know. As I say, I haven't got much experience here and I was just taking it as it comes.

 Q. Reputation of this course obviously on the Tour, you knew it was going to be a long hike. Was it everything you heard it was?
 NICK O'HERN: Yeah. I didn't know much about the course but got here Tuesday and caddy says, "Yeah, you're going to feel it by the end of the week." I'm going to take a week off next week. We'll see what happens. I played everywhere in the world. I've seen worse.
 CHRIS REIMER: Anything else guys?

 Q. It being your first time here, just aside from the long treks, your impression of course.
 NICK O'HERN: Really good track. You want to keep the ball on the fairways here because that rough, you know, you're going to get some jumpy lies when the sun comes out. Little bit of dew on the grass this morning, didn't fly so much. 
 This afternoon, these fairways, it's going to be tough to control the balls on the greens because you can't get any spin on the greens. It kind of reminds me of some of the courses we have back home in Australia and you need to shape the ball around here, which is great. Length isn't a factor, which is perfect with me because I'm not the longest person out here but if it's like this every week I would be very happy to play.
 CHRIS REIMER: Thanks Nick.
 NICK O'HERN: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT