AT&T NATIONAL
July 5, 2008
Nick O'Hern
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Kept your card bogey-free on 18.   
 NICK O'HERN: Yeah, I was close to getting a drop from the hospitality tents, but I was just in that fine line where I just didn't quite get the drops. The water played a bit of factor in blowing out to the right a little bit and made 4.   
  
  Q. This course, it's there to be had, but nonetheless, there's trouble lurking everywhere, isn't there?  
 NICK O'HERN: There is. I shot 3-under without a bogey but could quite easily have been 3-over. I had a lot of 5- and 6-footers for par today, which if I don't make on these greens, all of a sudden the round is going backwards and I'm fighting an uphill battle. I made those crucial par putts when I needed to and kept it close.   
  
  Q. Eager for a win?  
 NICK O'HERN: Yeah, I've always put myself in good positions going into Sundays from time to time, and now it's a matter of closing the deal. I'm playing solid enough and putting well enough which has always been my downfall maybe when it comes to Sundays, I don't quite putt well enough, but I'm putting beautiful at the moment.   
  
  Q. Solid round of golf.   
 NICK O'HERN: Yeah, very similar to yesterday, where I struck the ball okay. A bit hit and miss on some holes but really the key was holing some good par putts. A few 5-, 6-, 7-footers on these greens, which I don't necessarily want but I made every one of them and that kept the round going. If you make a bogey early on, you can be fighting a bit of an uphill battle.  
  
  Q. Only one shot out going into tomorrow, what are your thoughts on that?  
 NICK O'HERN: I'm in it good position. Today starting the day four back, I was trying to close the gap and get into some position where I could challenge the leaders tomorrow and hopefully lead at the end of the day. That's not going to happen but I'm in a good spot. Playing well, putting well so see what happens tomorrow.  
  
  Q. The birdies on 10 and 11, there's always talk about 11 being a very difficult hole. What does that do for your confidence and moving to the rest of the round?   
 NICK O'HERN: Oh, it's a great birdie there. Felt like eagle because I hit 5-wood in there. Not too many par 4s you hit 5-wood into.   
 Last year this course just manhandled me completely, and I really struggled. This year for some reason, I've just found a way to play the golf course, and short game probably has something to do with it. If you can chip and putt, you can keep your round going and take your chances when the birdie opportunities arrive. 10 and 11 you're just trying to go par, par and birdies are a bonus.  
  
  Q. Do you expect more of the same tomorrow?  
 NICK O'HERN: Yeah, I think they are going to put us out a little early with the weather coming in. It will be soft, the course and if you're playing well you can shoot 5- or 6-under and if you're not you can easily shoot 5- or 6-over. There's a very fine line in this game.   
  
  Q. Huge galleries, boisterous galleries, how did that affect your game?  
 NICK O'HERN: Oh, I had a good time. At one point they started cheering for me but I think they actually realized that it was me hitting the shot, not Steve, almost turned into the dark side there. A lot of fun, a couple of loud ones out there but that's all part of the fun.  
  
  Q. What's your mind-set tomorrow?   
 NICK O'HERN: It's that old cliché, one shot at a time. With me it's more about just trying to get the mind right and then think positively, very simply as that. If you hit the ball solid it just becomes a mental game and at the moment I'm in a great spot and I'm thinking well out on the golf course and I'm to the being distracted by too many things. If I can put myself in position tomorrow and putt well, I should be able to give it a good show.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT