TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 22, 2013
Nick O'Hern
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Nick, that's real solid golf in the third round, 2‑under.   We spoke yesterday.   Did you get out of this round what you had hoped to as far as the game plan was concerned?  
NICK O'HERN:   Yeah.   I played very solid tee to green again, a little bit of a scrappy start, but through the middle I had a nice run of 3s going, which always helps.  
I found on the back nine they really put some tough pins, so you had to be a little cautious there.   I could have shot one or two better, but I'm very happy because it was pretty tough conditions.  
   
 Q.   I was going to ask you about the conditions.   Did you have to adapt to change of wind and maybe the greens speeding up or slowing down in your estimation?  
NICK O'HERN:   Exactly.   The greens are firming up.   A little bumpy late in the day, but that's poa for you, but they're still really good greens obviously.   Ball was traveling a little further today.   The air is a bit drier, I think.   And you gotta be careful hitting into the greens.   You gotta allow for a bit more bounce in them.   So rather than fly at the flags you gotta land it ten short, which is always interesting.  
   
 Q.   How exciting to be in the mix in the final 18 here at TPC River Highlands?  
NICK O'HERN:   Very.   I had a good result here a few years ago.   The course suits me really well, and I'm looking forward to tomorrow.   My game is really in good shape, so I think I can have a good run tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Go get 'em, Nick.   
   
 Q.   All right, Nick.   Third straight round in the 60s.   How would you assess your play here on Saturday?  
NICK O'HERN:   Pretty solid.   Had a little scrappy start, but I played really nice from about the fifth, sixth hole onwards.   Tee to green was very good again, just whether I made a few putts or not.   
Rolled a few nice ones there in the middle, and could have made a couple more coming in, but I'm in a good spot, so should be fun tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Speaking of being in a good spot, probably a little chasing to do.   What's the game plan and how aggressive can you be on this course as it gets firmer and faster?  
NICK O'HERN:   Yeah.   There were some tough pins out there today, especially on the back nine.   We had to be a little cautious firing at some of those flags.   I had a look at some of the pins tomorrow and it's going to be the same story.   A lot depends on conditions.   If it's dry, windy, the scores won't be too low, so we'll play it by ear and hopefully roll in a few putts tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Nick, bogey on 5, birdied 7, 9, 10.   What was the switch there that turned it on?  
NICK O'HERN:   Well, I was playing pretty good golf.   Just didn't get a pretty simple up‑and‑down on 5, which I missed.   Gave myself a bit of a kick in the butt.   Made a good par on 6, I think it was, the par‑5, and then from then I really hit some nice putts.   Through the 10 I made maybe three out of four birdies there, which is always pretty good on those holes.   Had a lot of chances coming in, but couldn't make any.   But I'm in a good spot.  
   
 Q.   How was the course playing on the back nine coming in?   Bubba is starting to come down a bit.   
NICK O'HERN:   Yeah.   I can see why.   There's some pretty tricky pins, a lot of them on the tops and knobs and the shorter holes par can be a good score and you really gotta leave yourself in the right spot.  
And I found I couldn't attack too many pins today because the greens are starting to firm up and sometimes they'll bounce 10 or 12 yards which makes this golf course very good.  
   
 Q.   How exciting is it to be in a situation like you're in now to come back tomorrow knowing you can get to sleep, getting yourself ready?  
NICK O'HERN:   It's nice to be in contention.   The juices are flowing.   I'm playing good, so everything is aligning nicely.   It's just a matter of can I execute.   So it's why we play the game, why we practice and it's been a while for me to be in this position.   The good news is my game is in really good shape.   And it's just a matter of rolling in a few putts, so we'll see.  
   
 Q.   What will you have to do tomorrow?  
NICK O'HERN:   It's going to be hard.   The pins are going to be tucked away again which I've seen.   The conditions will determine that.   If it's dry like today, who knows how many under will win, but I don't think you'll see very low scores if it's like today.   If it's a little softer, well, then sure, we can fire a bit more.   Sundays are always different.   It's a matter of who handles themselves the best and that's what we're all trying to do.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT