TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 23, 2007
Nick O'Hern
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  June 23, 2007 

 Q.  You guys are supposed to be worn out when you get here.  You've taken it as a revitalization. 
 NICK O'HERN:  I played well at the Booze Allen, and I thought, well, coming into this week after the finish last week, everything is going to seem a little bit easier.  When you hit it in the rough, you have to hit a 5 or 6-iron as opposed to a wedge.  So in that sense, it doesn't take so much out of you. 

 Q.  You had a bad bogey run yesterday right in the middle of your round.  You were standing at the 12th tee 1-over par.  We were thinking cut instead of leader at that point.  What has been the difference in really getting you going? 
 NICK O'HERN: That rain delay really helped me yesterday.  I got 5 or 6-over in four holes, just playing like an absolute dolt, basically.  That rain delay gave me some time to regroup and just think about getting back to basics.  And that's all I've done basically, just kept playing positive today.  It's more about trying to get back into it, after looking like I'm missing the cut, to pretty close to the lead. 

 Q.  You hit 15 greens.  You were looking at a lot of birdie putts, and then the putter worked long distance early and then you made some short ones late. 
 NICK O'HERN:  I mean I started struggling a little bit with the ball-striking.  The wind on the last few holes exposes you a little bit.  And I made some good par saves.  I had a shot into 18, from where I was bogey wasn't too bad a score.  In the end, 4-under is a great round. 

 Q.  Do you feel it's good to get in early?  Do you help the wind starts blowing? 
 NICK O'HERN: It's already blowing, don't worry about that.  I just hope it doesn't stop.  Tomorrow I'm not sure what the conditions are going to be like.  But I'm playing well and I've given myself a chance and that's all I can hope for. 

 Q.  You're 25th in the world, and yet you're 11th on your own Presidents Cup list.  It's a hard team to make, isn't it? 
 NICK O'HERN: It certainly is.  There are a lot of good international players, especially Australians.  It's something I would love to play. 
 I played in the last one and I loved every minute of it, and I think a lot of the internationals are really looking out to get on that team. 

 Q. The man from Perth ought to have some fun in the wind if it does get windy again tomorrow.  Thanks for joining us. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT