THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY MORGAN STANLEY
June 1, 2007
Nick O'Hern
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   NICK O'HERN:  It caught the lip of the bunker and rolled all the way back to the back of the bunker.  I was just trying to figure out a way to get it out.  I knew if I got it to the back of the green it would come back, but I couldn't figure out a way to get it there.  I figured I'd chip to the front of the green and make my bogey and that'll do. 
 And then so I pretty much would make double down that way, so I might as well make double down this way, so I'll give it a go.  I picked it up like it was buried and hit down as far as I could, and it somehow popped up.  It was a matter of trying to get it over the lip, and somehow I did it.  As soon as it started rolling back, I thought, this looks good.  It was a complete fluke. 

 Q.  You'll take it? 
 NICK O'HERN:  It's the best golf shot of my life.  Actually, no, it was the second best.  I've holed one to win a tournament before, so that was the second best. 

 Q.  How was it out there today? 
 NICK O'HERN:  You know, I actually played all right.  I had a very strange round.  I shot 74 but I felt as though I could have easily shot about 4-under.  I had about four or five holes where the ball just went about ten meters further than I thought it would, and I racked up probably four bogeys and a triple bogey in those five holes. 
 I hit the shots I wanted to, I just didn't have the distance control for some reason.  The ball seemed to be going an extra club further.  It's a shame because I played quite well. 

 Q.  Was the course any different today than yesterday? 
 NICK O'HERN:  A little firmer, which is what I was hoping for.  But the score wasn't what I was hoping for, but I played how I wanted to.  You know, some days you play as good as you can and 74 is the best you're going to shoot, and that was what happened today.  I played well, so I'm happy. 

 Q.  So far the Australians are doing very well at this tournament.  What's going on? 
 NICK O'HERN:  Well, we're all good players, that's what's going on.  Come on.  Scotty is like Top 5 in the world and Rod is having a good year.  I see they've shot a couple of good rounds.  I'll look for them on the weekend, and hopefully I can shoot a good score tomorrow and get back in. 

 Q.  You beat Tiger twice in match play and now you're stealing a page out of his play book with that shot.  What's going on? 
 NICK O'HERN:  I've been fortunate enough to play well whenever I play him.  That one was just a complete fluke. 

 Q.  Did you really -- I mean, obviously you were trying to convince yourself on that practice swing.  What did you think your odds were of just getting it over the lip? 
 NICK O'HERN:  I thought worst case, don't hit it into the cameraman at the back (laughter).  Not the best swing thought, but I thought, okay, I'll play this where if anything I'm going to fat it and it'll hit the lip of the bunker and come back in and I'll get up-and-down for bogey.  If it gets out over the lip, so be it.  Hopefully we'll get lucky.  It was a 1 in 1,000 shot there. 

 Q.  At what point did you start thinking like it could actually go in? 
 NICK O'HERN:  When it was about five feet short.  It kept rolling and rolling, and I thought, this can't reach the hole, it can't come all the way back, and it did.  My caddie went nuts.  He was giving me a bear hug. 

 Q.  What did he say? 
 NICK O'HERN:  He just said it's the greatest shot he's ever seen. 

 Q.  Are you going to buy everybody a drink? 
 NICK O'HERN:  Yeah, maybe after Sunday if I win. 

 Q.  Why did you take the option to the right out of the next -- 
 NICK O'HERN:  Well, the way the lie was, it was virtually almost impossible to get it up over the lip from where I was, and in the end I just manufactured something.  I could have quite easily have thinned it or fatted it or shanked it, so -- 

 Q.  The thinking was the worst case it's a bogey, whatever way you go, so you might as well try for the back? 
 NICK O'HERN:  Well, the worst case was double, and I thought if I go to the front of the green I could quite easily still make double, so what's the point in doing that?  We might as well have a go at it and hope to get lucky.  I think I'll go and buy a lotto ticket now. 

 Q.  You mentioned the bunker shot you holed to win a tournament.  Describe that shot. 
 NICK O'HERN:  That was the end of last year, the Australian PGA, it was the fourth hole of the playoff with Peter Lonard, and I was in the back bunker.  It wasn't a difficult bunker shot, but just sort of splashed it out, rolled in to win the tournament. 

 Q.  What did he say after that? 
 NICK O'HERN:  "Well done." 

 Q.  That's it? 
 NICK O'HERN:  No, Pete is not a man of many words.  He congratulated me.  He's won that tournament, I think, a couple times. 

 Q.  How long was that? 
 NICK O'HERN:  Oh, it was probably about a 15-yard bunker shot.  It wasn't that difficult a shot.  It was more the situation.  In that case if I go too long it was going in the water, so I hit a pretty good bunker shot. 

 Q.  So that one was more important? 
 NICK O'HERN:  That one was more important.  This one was ridiculous (laughing). 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT