FRYS.COM OPEN
October 12, 2012
Nick O'Hern
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Good job.   
NICK O'HERN:   Yeah.   Got it around.  
   
 Q.   You have to be pleased with 9‑under.   
NICK O'HERN:   I would have taken to start of the Thursday.   I left a few out there today.   Didn't play obviously as well as yesterday.   Probably had nine more putts, so there is the nine strokes.  
I didn't quite hit it as close as I did, but all in all I'm pleased.  
   
 Q.   I was curious about your decision to layup at the 15th.   Just an in‑between number there, a par‑5 for your second shot?   
NICK O'HERN:   Yeah, I mean, I could have got home but I would have had to hit the perfect shot.   I thought I would play to my strength and layup with my wedge.   Unfortunately I didn't hit a good wedge in.  
If you miss it in the right trap there it's no good and left is the hazard, so I didn't hit a very good tee shot.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned putting.   You had 30 putts in the second round, 23 in the opening round.   I thought you had a lot of good holes, a lot of good rolls.   You couldn't roll it any better than you did at the 18th and not good in?  
NICK O'HERN:   Exactly.   Yeah, no I hot a lot of god putts today which didn't go in.   It's tough to expect those 20‑, 25‑footers to go in.   You just got to hit it close.  
Yesterday I hit it close all day and made everything I looked at.   Today I putted basically the same but just got to hit it closer.  
   
 Q.   You know your position on the Money List, just inside the top 150.   Did you attack the weekend any different because there is so little time left on the PGA TOUR season?  
NICK O'HERN:   No, not really.   My objective this week was to win the golf tournament.   That hasn't changed.   If I do that, it'll take care of the rest.   
   
 Q.   Absolutely.   You owned the course yesterday in terrible conditions and you get better conditions today and...  
NICK O'HERN:   Yeah, I was hoping for rain.   (Laughter.)  
You know it's always tough to back up a score like yesterday where everything just seemed to go right.   With a 5:00 am wake‑up call you're not quite feeling as alert as I guess a 1:00 tee time.   I wasn't as sharp today.   Pretty plain and simple.   
I putted nicely, and that's the key for me.   If level par is as bad as it gets, I'm pretty happy.  
   
 Q.   Are you going to watch the leaderboard this afternoon to see if anybody is close?  
NICK O'HERN:   No.   I'm just going to be checking the baseball results and see what happens there.   
No, I'm taking the afternoon off.   I won't worry about it.   I'll just find out my tee time tonight.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT