THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY MORGAN STANLEY
May 31, 2007
Nick O'Hern
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  It appears like you took advantage of a day where you could score? 
 NICK O'HERN:  Yeah, if you're hitting the ball well you're going to have a lot of birdie opportunities.  It's a matter of getting the putter going.  A round like this has been in the makings.  That's pleasing. 

 Q.  How fun is a day like this? 
 NICK O'HERN:  When you're playing well, it's just nice to see the ball going in the hole.  It's been, as I say, a long time coming.  I put in a lot of hard work and it's starting to pay off. 

 Q.  Three-way tie after one day? 
 NICK O'HERN:  Yeah, it's nice.  I played well here two years ago in my only other trip here, and the course fits my eye well, and if I'm playing solidly hopefully it'll show on the weekend. 

 Q.  I guess we're a little surprised -- we had heard it was very fast and dry and yet you guys were pretty much able to attack it. 
 NICK O'HERN:  Yeah, it's not that fast.  You know, the fairways are dry, which is great.  I think usually they tell me it's pretty wet out here, so it's nice to be able to run the ball a bit.  The fairways are pretty generous, so it's not too often you're going to miss too many fairways.  It's all about second shots; like the courses in Melbourne, down in Australia, hitting the tee shots aren't that big a deal.  Once you get on the dance floor it's a matter of holing some putts. 

 Q.  The greens are rolling good? 
 NICK O'HERN:  The greens are beautiful, just a nice speed.  If the sun stays out they're going to get very, very quick and scores will be probably a little bit higher over the weekend. 

 Q.  Keep your mindset going into tomorrow? 
 NICK O'HERN:  Yeah, just keep playing well.  The old cliché, one shot at a time.  It's just nice to get off to a good start. 

 Q.  I know three guys for sure withdrew.  Phil is out, Zach went out with strep throat.  You're feeling good? 
 NICK O'HERN:  Yeah, I haven't been ill for a while, so I'm actually feeling good myself.  Since we've been in the States we keep picking up some bugs, and the last month or so is the best I've felt.  Hopefully we're past all that and looking forward to some good golf. 

 Q.  What do you think they'll do to toughen it up?  Do you feel when you guys go out and shoot a 7-under do you think the tournament gets a little scared that it's getting too easy or what do you anticipate? 
 NICK O'HERN:  A lot depends on the weather.  If the sun stays out, it's going to get firmer and faster and the course will get harder.  The first guys always shoot the lowest scores of the week because there's no expectations.  As soon as you get into the weekend, scores automatically get higher because we're getting towards the end result.  I don't think they need to do too much.  They'll probably speed up the greens and tuck the pins away.  That's probably the only defense. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT