WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 24, 2007
Nick O'Hern
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Tough way to finish.   
 NICK O'HERN:  Yeah, it was.  I hit two lovely shots into 17, and Henrik let me get 1-up going down 17.  I was thinking, let's make 4 here and try and win the match because I knew he had a tough bunker shot.   
 The ball just didn't come out how I wanted.  One place I couldn't leave it was where I left it unfortunately.  I hit a lovely second chip, hit a good putt, misread it.   
 Then on the last hole Henrik made a great four, and I don't know, I had a four-footer and pulled it.   
  
  Q.  Was it difficult going out there and getting yourself up again after the emotions of yesterday?   
 NICK O'HERN:  Yeah, I mean, I'm absolutely knackered at the moment.  It was pretty tiring.  But if you're not up for this, you're not up for anything.  I was ready to play 36 for two days for sure.   
 But yeah, it's a pretty disappointing way to finish.  The golf I played today, especially.  I played lovely.  I had a couple of mishaps in the middle there.  It's one of those things where you take it on the chin and move on.   
  
  Q.  It was a four-footer that saved you yesterday and it cost you today.   
 NICK O'HERN:  It got me today and did me today, yeah.  It's a funny game, this.  I really don't know what to say, to be honest.  It's just very disappointing at the moment.  I felt I've played really good golf over yesterday and today.   
  
  Q.  Quite a few positives to take out of the week, though, obviously.  You've had some big wins, and no bigger than yesterday.   
 NICK O'HERN:  Yeah, it's obviously nice to beat Tiger again.  But yeah, it was a pretty frustrating way to finish, the way I played and where I was in 2 on 7.  It was looking pretty nice, and I just thought, Let's let's make 4 here and hopefully it's game over.  At worst I'll go 1-up down the last.   
 To make 6 from where I was pretty much inexcusable.   
  
  Q.  And then also with Henrik in the cactus on the last, as well?  You must have thought, I've got a good chance.   
 NICK O'HERN:  Well, no, I still expect him to make 4.  I just figured where I was, I'd have to get up-and-down, keep it going.  As it turned out, in match play you have to expect that, and I knew he'd hit a good shot and he did.  All credit to him.   
 I hit a lovely chip up there.  Didn't quite release as much as I thought, and then the four-footer just kind of didn't start it on the right line.  So be it.   
  
  Q.  Which side did it miss?   
 NICK O'HERN:  On the right, the right-hand side.  It was kind of a firm -- it was a little left to right and I was trying to hit it firm and straight because I figured, Well, Henrik is making his.  I just pulled it a touch.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT