WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 22, 2007
Nick O'Hern
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Good going, well played.   
 NICK O'HERN:  It was a tough match, yeah.  There was a couple of big momentum shifts through the match there.  I think the most important one was when Rory drove it on 12, the par 4, and I've laid up and wedged it on to 10 feet.  He's two-putted and I knocked one in.  That sort of sent a bit of a message that I wasn't going to go away quietly, and that was to keep the match square with six to go.   
 I won the next hole, and yeah, it was a good match in the end, a real hard-fought match play.  The golf was okay.  I think we were 1-under or something like that, so it wasn't scintillating golf, but it wasn't easy, either.   
 Some of those pins were just crazy.  The last hole, the 17th, I three-putted that, but the pin positions -- if it went three feet past it was off the green.   
  
  Q.  It was close all the way through, but you managed to sneak ahead at the end.  It was important to get through that round?   
 NICK O'HERN:  Absolutely, yeah.   
  
  Q.  Now you've got a big draw?   
 NICK O'HERN:  Now we've got Tiger tomorrow.  Looking forward to that.  I just need to play better than what I have been.  Hopefully the weather will be nice and the course doesn't play too long.  If it's not good tomorrow it's going to be a bit of a problem.   
 It's a long golf course, and I've just got to be patient.  If they keep tucking the pins the way they are, par is a good score on a lot of these holes.  I had a couple almost borderline pins out there today.  If they keep doing that, that might actually work in my favor.   
  
  Q.  You say it's a long course.  You're not one of the longest hitters, but you seem to be getting around all right out there.   
 NICK O'HERN:  Yeah.  No, I played better yesterday than I did today, but match play is a whole different ballgame.  I tend to play the first nine, play my own game, see how we're rolling along.  Then the second nine I tend to play the opponent more, which is what I did today.  I tried to keep my nose in front on that back nine.  I had a putt on 16 to win it -- not to win it, but to really make the killer punch there and didn't quite make it.  But in the end it worked out pretty good.   
  
  Q.  Do you enjoy this match play?   
 NICK O'HERN:  Love it, yeah, absolutely love it.   
  
  Q.  It suits you?   
 NICK O'HERN:  It does.  You know, we play stroke play so much.  20-under is the winning score every week.  It's not boring, but it's a bit of a hard slog for someone like me where par is a good score on a lot of golf courses.   
 You're playing match play, and especially I get to hit my second shots into greens first all day long, and that's going to be the case tomorrow against Tiger obviously.  You're almost putting the pressure on your opponent, which is what I love about match play.  It's all about momentum shifts and swings.   
  
  Q.  Have you played Tiger before?   
 NICK O'HERN:  Played him a couple years ago in the match play and managed to get past him then.  I'm going to have my hands full tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT