WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 21, 2007
Nick O'Hern
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  4 and 3, talk me through the match.  What were the keys?   
 NICK O'HERN:  Just good consistent play.  I just hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens early on, and I think Lucas probably knew that birdies were going to win holes, not pars.  I just felt as though I kept the pressure on him all day, and any chance he had to get back in the match, I sort of closed the door a little.   
 You know, he didn't play as well as he would have liked.  I played nice and solid, probably shot 4-under or something like that, so I was very happy.   
  
  Q.  Do you have the sense that you can beat anybody when you're playing well considering what happened with beating Tiger two years ago and everything?   
 NICK O'HERN:  Absolutely.  Match play, so whole different kettle of fish.  Top 64 players in the world.  Anyone can beat anyone.  If you're playing well, you know, you might shoot 6-under and lose or shoot 2-over and win.  It's one of those formats where you expect the unexpected, I guess.   
 It's a format which I love to play because I'm not the longest hitter in the world so generally I'm hitting my second shots into greens first, so I put a little pressure on the guys and make them think about it a little bit.   
  
  Q.  Do you play different in match play versus stroke play?   
 NICK O'HERN:  A little bit, yeah.  The first nine holes I tend to play how I normally do.  If he's making triple bogey I'm going to play obviously a little bit more conservatively, and then I just see how the match goes.   
 On the back nine it's a matter of what's my position.  Am I down, am I up, and go from there.  I find a big key with this format is to get up early and just kind of put your foot down basically and go from there.   
  
  Q.  You did that here.  Going into round two, now more familiar with the Gallery.  What's your strategy?   
 NICK O'HERN:  Same as today, fairways and greens.  That's such a key in match play is to just keep the pressure on the opponent, and if you putt well, you can win a lot of matches.   
 If you've always got the ball in play and always got a chance on a hole, that's the key.  You don't want to give any free holes away and just keep the pressure on the opponent.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT