THE COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 27, 2007
Richard Green
Nick O'Hern
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  Nick, Richard thanks for joining us, unusual but you guys are tied with Retief.  Richard, you can start please.   
 RICHARD GREEN:  It was a nice day.  I played pretty nicely from the word go.  Gathered a nice bit of momentum and played pretty nicely, just a bit of a shame about the last hole.   
 CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  Nick?   
 NICK O'HERN:  Yeah, blew out of the bunkers for two birdies the first couple of holes and thought here we go, and gave them straight back.   
 Front nine was a bit scrappy, but got it around and played lovely the back nine and gave myself plenty of chances for birdies which all you can ask.  Just wait for the putter to get hot.  Made a few, missed a few, so it's a pretty good day all in all.   
 CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  Obviously looking for one another out there today?   
 RICHARD GREEN:  We're trying to beat each other.   
 NICK O'HERN:  Yeah, as much as we're trying to beat each other, I'm wishing nothing on Green and I'm sure he probably wishes nothing on me.   
 You just play your heart out and whatever happens, happens.  We have a long day ahead of us tomorrow, and it's nice to have someone stand on my side of the tee for a change.   
  
  Q.  Can you take us through the last hole?   
 RICHARD GREEN:  The wind was out of the right and I always struggle when the wind it out of the right there, especially with a driver in my hand.  I was trying to not play that shot, and so maybe focused a little bit too hard on not trying to play that shot and played it.   
 So a bit of a shame, an unplayable and scrambled my way to the hole from there.   
  
  Q.  Would you have thought at the end of the day that a two-stroke cushion would be sufficient?   
 RICHARD GREEN:  It would have been nice.  It would have been nice obviously.  It's still, it's late in the tournament, and we'll probably be a little bit more aggressive tomorrow rather than so much defensive than I suppose might have been if I was two shots in front.   
 It's probably a little bit better frame of mind for me to play in tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  You're both Australians, did you go out and celebrate Australia Day?   
 NICK O'HERN:  I was in bed.   
 RICHARD GREEN:  Green was in bed by 7:30.   
 NICK O'HERN:  He was in bed by 7:30.  No, I had dinner with the Danes.  No, it's a special day for us, obviously being Australian.  When we're home would he like to celebrate, but this week we have got a job to do.  Maybe tomorrow night.   
 RICHARD GREEN:  Celebrated it on the golf course I think yesterday, a couple of good scores.   
  
  Q.  Maybe I missed the point you were making at the beginning about your round, but I thought he played very well considering what everybody else did.  There were few players who played better than you did aside from the 18th hole.  You said yesterday you play well in the wind.   
 RICHARD GREEN:  I did.  I played nicely most of the day.  It was very -- not trying to focus too much on the negative and look at 17 positives really, and that's what I'll take into tomorrow.   
 The game is good.  Just got to go out there tomorrow and do the same things and see if we can produce a score.   
  
  Q.  Retief was just in and he said may feel under a bit of stress tomorrow having not won in two year; how do you two guys feel about it?   
 NICK O'HERN:  I feel pretty good about it because I won two tournaments ago.  So I'm feeling pretty good going into tomorrow plus I'm playing well.   
 So, you know, can't ask for more to be going into Sunday with the lead and playing well.  If you can do that, you've got a real good chance.  If someone goes out and shoots 6-under, conditions like this, it's going to be pretty tough to do something.  You've just got to play as well as you can, and come that last few holes, we'll see what happens.   
  
  Q.  Were you a bit surprised considering the way he was playing for the first three days he made a double-bogey on the 18th?   
 NICK O'HERN:  It was surprising yeah.  But it's a tough shot though.  I had the same shot being a left-hander when the wind is off to the right.  You struggle to hold the ball on that wind, and if it just goes on it can get away from you a bit.  Sometimes you hit into those rocky areas there and you get away with it and you get a shot and other times you don't.  It's part and parcel of the game.  Other than that, he played lovely.   
 CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT