THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
June 3, 2005
Nick O'Hern
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
How sour do you leave when you do something like that on 18, when something like that happens on 18?
NICK O'HERN:  It was fine.  I hit a good putt and it didn't go in.  There's still a long way to go.  I was happy to shoot 70.  I didn't really play that well to begin with but then I started playing well the back nine, and 70 is not too bad.
Q.  The two day total you're taking into the weekend?
NICK O'HERN:  Exactly.  I've never played the course before.  Today I found a few of the spots where you're not supposed to go.  Yesterday I didn't know where they were so I didn't hit them there.  The more I get to know it, probably the worse I'll play.  It's just a matter of hitting fairways and greens around here and leaving yourself below the hole.  I think the two times, I made bogey.
Q.  Did you misclub on 18?
NICK O'HERN:  No, I hit the right club, just pulled it.  I was aiming about 15 feet right and hit it about 30 feet right.
Q.  What was it?
NICK O'HERN:  5 iron.  It's a tough shot.
Q.  Now you know what to avoid?
NICK O'HERN:  Exactly.  I mean, I looked at the pin.  I thought, well, is it better to miss it left or right, which side of the hole do I want to be, and I didn't really know, so probably the right side is the best side, and I just pulled it too far, and as it turned out probably the left side was better.
Q.  How comfortable are you with two days under your belt now?
NICK O'HERN:  Pretty comfortable.  I mean, I had a good look at some of the pins for tomorrow out there so that I know where to go, and that's a big thing, not knowing where to put the ball on the greens.  My caddie is doing a good job trying to figure out where to go on everything, and I'm feeling comfortable, playing pretty solid.  I played a bit better yesterday, but I'm pleased.  I'm putting well and that's the key.
Q.  Does a dryer course favor you if it stays dry this weekend?
NICK O'HERN:  I hope it does stay dry so I can roll some of the tee shots out there.  When it's all carry I do struggle because I'm not the longest hitter in the world.  The firmer it is, the better for me.
Q.  I mean, 67 70 can look a lot different when you just see the numbers than actually    the way you went today, you gave a little back, left some there.
NICK O'HERN:  The first two holes I could have had four bogeys and made four pars, so that kept me in it.  I started playing better in the middle there and through the back nine.  I could have had a couple better but I could have easily been a few worse.  70 is about the number I should have shot.
Q.  Is that settling or unsettling when you start like that because you're scratching out pars?
NICK O'HERN:  Exactly.  Well, it's a good thing because you haven't given any shots back, and you think, well, sooner or later my swing has got to kick back in, and it did, and we played pretty well.  If I would have made a couple bogeys I would have had a hard time trying to shoot 75.
Q.  As we move halfway through today pretty much there might be a 9 or a double digit maybe if somebody goes deep, but 8, 7, you're going to be in those final couple of groups?
NICK O'HERN:  Exactly.  That's what it's all about, trying to put yourself in position for the weekend, and tomorrow is another day and hopefully I'll wake up on the right side of the bed and shoot another low one.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT