BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2005
Nick O'Hern
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
Great run, you must be happy.
NICK O'HERN:  Yeah, it's pretty much about as good as I can hit the ball from tee to green.  I think I had 34 putts today for 69, so it shows that you I'm hitting the ball solid.  Just a matter of getting the ball in the hole.  The greens were tough to read this afternoon.  I hit a lot of good putts, just didn't go in.
Q.  What about the conditions?
NICK O'HERN:  Yeah, it's nice.  It's nice to get the jumper off our backs and feel nice and warm out there.  Hopefully the forecast is the same for the weekend.
Q.  And your form, you're carrying it on then?
NICK O'HERN:  Yeah, I played well in Ireland last week and I was swinging the club great.  It's just a matter of, as I say, trying to get the ball in the hole, and these are probably the toughest greens to read on Tour I think, and definitely showed why today because I kept missing putt after putt.  But it's nice to be playing on.
Q.  You said the pins were very bouncy, the pins at 17, never seen on TOUR before, really U.S. Open style pins?
NICK O'HERN:  Yeah, my caddie commented a couple of times, I think the one on 7 was five on and four from the left, and never seen it there before.  So you're playing like 15, 20 feet behind the hole.  That's what happened to me today.  I had a lot of 20 footers and it's hard to hole those putts.
Q.  Ernie said the course was in desperate need of water on the greens.
NICK O'HERN:  If they don't put any on tonight, they are going to have some problems over the weekend.  We are kind of used to it back in Australia, the firm conditions we play in, so the firmer the better, I say.
Q.  Birdie at last?
NICK O'HERN:  Yeah, it's nice to have a one putt.  Only had a one putt on the second for par.  All of my birdies today were to putts and on the par 5s.
Q.  McGinley and Harrington, do you go out there chasing people at the top tomorrow?
NICK O'HERN:  No, just going to play my game.  I played with Cole the last two rounds last week and had a lot of fun with him.  It's only Friday at the moment, so there's still a long way to go.
Q.  Once again, the O'Hern name up on the leaderboard going into the weekend.
NICK O'HERN:  Yeah, it's nice to get that one extra up there.  What are we, running second at the moment, so we'll see how we go on the weekend.
Q.  Do you want 34 putts each day?
NICK O'HERN:  I've been putting all right of late, like last week I putted great, 27, 28 putts.  Today I putted well but it's hard to make 20 footers all day.
Q.  Have you always used the long putter?
NICK O'HERN:  Yeah, about ten years.  I had the short one in the bag last week because of the bay.  The wind was blowing, it was that strong, but I chickened out.
Q.  Aside from the greens, what everybody else has been talking about, do you get on this first tee knowing that you have to treat this course with respect, or are you that familiar with it?
NICK O'HERN:  Well, today no one was really making a move.  Paul this morning obviously had a great score.

It's similar to playing in other courses in Australia where if the weather is hot and the greens are firm and the wind is there, 2  or 3 under is going to be a good score.  If the weather is the same tomorrow, maybe 10 under might be leading at the end of the day.
Q.  You've often said links courses suited your game, working your way around?
NICK O'HERN:  Well, you don't need to bomb it around here.  You need to shape the ball.  A lot of the tee shots around here I can still hit my driver, but I can work the ball right to left and left to right, so you have to think your way around, so suits me.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT