BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2005
Nick O'Hern
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Another good tournament last week in Ireland?
NICK O'HERN:  I didn't have much of a chance going into the last round but when I finished, the way the weather was I thought I might be in with half a shot. Then the weather turned nice again as it had done all week. But I was pleased with the way I played and nice to get some form coming up to these big events.
Q.  You have come close but the win is still eluding you?
NICK O'HERN:  I am still knocking on the door. I had my best chance earlier in the year in the Heineken Classic when I lost that play-off. But it has been a solid start to the year again  which has been nice. I am heading back to America again after this week for three weeks with the US Open being one of those which is nice. I have never played that one so that will be a lot of fun. Then  back for the K Club and the British Open. It is nice to have the choice of where we want to play.

I am looking forward to this week. The course is in great shape. Hopefully it will get some sun and it will get nice and firm and fast and if I keep playing well, hopefully this will be the week.
Q.  How has your record been here?
NICK O'HERN:  I have shot some low rounds, some 65s and 66s and really got off to some fliers. I have had some top tens but nothing out of the blocks. I don't think I have had a top three or anything. I like the course and feel I am due a good one.
Q.  What does it mean to you to be established in the top 50?
NICK O'HERN:  It means this year we have had a good look at what is going on in America and able to play there a bit more. Played the Masters and the Match Play earlier in the year and some other tour events. If you can do well in them then you just keep cementing your spot up there. And just to compete against the top guys week in week out is what it is all about. At the end of this year the schedule will be divided 50-50 playing the same events here as in America. That's a lot of travel and very tough to do. That's where you need the old private jet. That's where Ernie has the great advantage over us where he can just hop on his plane whereas the rest of us do it commercially. At the end of the year we will decide which direction we take, whether we keep playing here and hop over there for the odd week or go there full time. I am not sure so far. It has all been based on lifestyle so far rather than where the dollar has been and we are enjoying what we are doing.
Q.  This course suits the way you play, shaping the ball?
NICK O'HERN:  It is nice to play these courses where you don't have to bomb it up there and length is not the all-important factor. The way the wind swirls around here you have to hold your ball up against the wind. You need a lot of control, which suits my game and you also need a really good short game which again plays into my hands. I should have done better than I have in previous occasions but maybe I am due for a low one.
Q.  And maybe due for that week?
NICK O'HERN:  That would be nice. I am playing well enough.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT