WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 25, 2005
Nick O'Hern
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
NICK O'HERN:  I really am playing well.  In this game anything can happen.  I just kept hitting fairways and greens.  It was a matter of the least amount of mistakes possible.

Tiger was unlucky with some putts where he hit a lot of good putts and they didn't go in, and I think that made the difference.  The greens are pretty bumpy, so it's a bit of a guessing game if they go in or not.
Q.  Were you expecting a run from him?
NICK O'HERN:  Absolutely.  I knew it was going to be tough coming in.  I thought if I could keep playing solid I'd have a good chance.  It's match play, and I knew I was playing well.  It's a matter of hitting the shots at the right time.

The last hole was the best shot I've hit so far, that second shot in.
Q.  Do you feel like this is an upset or one you could have from the start?
NICK O'HERN:  Absolutely.  I thought if I played well I'd have a real good chance, and he'd have to play some really good golf to beat me.  We had a really good match; it was a lot of fun.
Q.  Every time you needed a big shot you came up with it.
NICK O'HERN:  Yeah, similar to my match against Charles Howell yesterday.  In the end I hit some great shots.

The course is almost completely new to me.  It's very soft out here, and it doesn't advantage the short hitters like me.  But the good part there is that I get to hit my second shot first and make the green, so I can put the pressure on them.  I expect this afternoon it will be the same thing.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
NICK O'HERN:  You can think that way, but it's never going to be reality.  I played Tiger Woods, and I thought, what do I need to do to play well and hopefully beat him.  That's what I did today.  I stuck to my game.  Lots of fairways, lots of greens.  I think I probably shot 2  or 3 under, and that was good enough.
Q.  Talk about the shot on 17, the second one.
NICK O'HERN:  It was a matter of hitting it straight.  It wasn't that a tough a shot; I had some room under the tree.  It was a matter of hitting it straight.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT