NHL DRAFT
June 26, 2015
Timo Meier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible).   
TIMO MEIER:   I'm really excited.   I mean, being drafted by such a great organization, I'm really honored to be a part of that organization.   
   
 Q.   What was the experience like for you?  
TIMO MEIER:   It was a lot of fun.   I got the chance to share that moment with my family.   They're here supporting me, so it's definitely really a special day.  
   
 Q.   Did you talk to the Sharks a lot before they drafted you?   Did you expect them to be interested in you at that spot there?  
TIMO MEIER:   Yeah, I had a couple meetings with them, but at the end, there was a lot of teams showing interest, but I'm really excited that the Sharks took me.  
   
 Q.   How do you describe yourself as a player?  
TIMO MEIER:   I'm a power forward that likes to take pucks on net.   I'm a physical player.   I use my size, and I have a good shot.   
   
 Q.   And the other side of it is what are some things you need to work on the next few years?  
TIMO MEIER:   For sure, I mean, I've got to get better on the defensive, so if you want to play in the NHL as a young player, getting faster is something I want to work on a lot and get better, get faster.   In every aspect I want to get better.  
   
 Q.   Do you know Marco Mueller?   You're from Switzerland, but did you grow up in Switzerland?  
TIMO MEIER:   Yeah, exactly.   We played together at the Under‑20 World Championships.   For sure it's really nice to know somebody there, too.   
   
 Q.   Did he know you might possibly end up here?   Did you talk to him at all?  
TIMO MEIER:   For sure I asked him a couple questions about San Jose and he told me really good things about it, so I'm really happy.  
   
 Q.   Talk about what Halifax did for your development.   
TIMO MEIER:   They've been a big part.   They were really a first‑class organization.   I've improved a lot in the last two years there.   It's a great city, a great organization.   It was really fun to play there the last two years.  
   
 Q.   Talk about your decision to play in the CHL.   
TIMO MEIER:   I mean, I've always wanted to play in the NHL, so the decision to come over here, play in the CHL, it's because I have the goal to play in the NHL.  
   
 Q.   Last year your teammate Nikolaj Ehlers was the first player selected and this year you're the first player selected.   That must be special.   
TIMO MEIER:   Yeah, it's really special.   We're really good friends, so for sure it's something special for both of us.   
   
 Q.   Do you know anybody else in the organization besides Marco?  
TIMO MEIER:   Noah Rod, he's a really good friends of mine.   He's also selected by the San Jose Sharks, so that's really exciting for me.   
   
 Q.   Are you happy to get picked No.9 just like Nikolaj was?  
TIMO MEIER:   Yeah, for sure.   It's funny, both getting picked by No.9.   It's for sure something that we're both happy about it, but more excited to be part of such a great organization.   Yeah, I'm really honored.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible).   
TIMO MEIER:   Yeah, for sure.   I mean, he's an amazing player, and definitely I was able to take some stuff from him, and playing with him was a great experience.   Definitely in practice, those things, you can learn from those players.  
   
 Q.   When do you feel like you can be ready for the NHL?  
TIMO MEIER:   My goal is to be ready for next season.   It's still a long way, but I know if you work hard and you can deserve that spot, that's what you go for in training camp.  
   
 Q.   What's the biggest (inaudible)?  
TIMO MEIER:   I mean, the NHL, they're grown men.   You've got to be strong, you've got to be fast.   All those things I want to improve on over the summer.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible).   
TIMO MEIER:   Yeah, for sure.   It's a little bit lucky for me I had that one year extra where I was able to improve, to adjust to the North American style.   I think at the end, I was able to, I know, get the first year behind me and go into the draft year with already the experience how it is over here.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT