ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 5, 2012
Magnus A. Carlsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MAGNUS CARLSSON:   I got an invite here so I was very happy about that.   My dad said, yeah, I'm definitely coming.   So he loves watching the golf here in Scotland and the links courses and these places, and well we have had fantastic weather for the couple of days, and just walking on these courses gives you a big smiling face, and goosebumps coming down 18 here. 
I've just been enjoying it.   And playing pretty solid, and, well, made some putts as well, so it's nice.

Q.   An even bigger smile when you find yourself at 10‑under through two rounds? 
MAGNUS CARLSSON:   Yeah, exactly.   I'm happy with my score but if you look at the leaderboard, Branden Grace has done fantastic.   So it's good for him.

Q.   You still find yourself in, what, third place as we speak?   And that's with the tougher course to come, I guess? 
MAGNUS CARLSSON:   Yeah, well, I've got some good memories from Carnoustie.   Played a round there at 2008 I think.   And it's a tough course, but I like playing it, and it's going to be a nice fun tomorrow. 

Q.   You mentioned the invitation, you sound almost surprised to get one. 
MAGNUS CARLSSON:   Well, a little bit, because I wasn't really expecting to get one, but after quite a few invitations this week, I knew I had a little chance of getting one, and there's a couple other Challenge Tour players who got one, as well.   I was very happy.

Q.   One of those nice benefits from winning The Ryder Cup, isn't it?   Did you watch?
MAGNUS CARLSSON:   I did but I missed Sunday, because I was traveling.   I could follow the live scoring, and I was‑‑ I really wanted to watch it when I saw the live scoring, because didn't want to miss that come back. 

Q.   You love this golf course I guess? 
MAGNUS CARLSSON:   Especially when the weather is like this, you come here with a big smile, because the courses are fantastic. 

Q.   Will you have played much links apart from amateur days?
MAGNUS CARLSSON:   Not really, no.   Just here and‑‑ well, not much, no. 

Q.   From a Swedish perspective, we have yourself up there, Joel, Fredrik Andersson Hed is nicely placed?
MAGNUS CARLSSON:   Yeah, it's all good.   Nice to see your own fellow countrymen up there, as well. 

Q.   What's the situation overall in terms of how you've been playing?   There's been some nice highlights across the season. 
MAGNUS CARLSSON:   Well, I've played mostly on The Challenge Tour and if I say been lucky to play good at the big events, which have been co‑sanctioned with The European Tour, so apart from that, I've played quite solid the whole year.   I haven't missed one single cut, which is nice, so I'm going to try and keep on working on it and just keep making the cuts and finishing high up there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT