NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: PENGUINS v RED WINGS
June 1, 2009
Tyler Kennedy
Kris Letang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Kris, can you talk about Sid's demeanor the last game or two and just sort of your sense of his overall kind of frustration level, if he has been getting a little more frustrated, how he was towards the end of the last game just based on the fact that he hasn't been able to breakthrough offensively and you guys are down?  
 KRIS LETANG: I think he obviously is a guy who racks some points a lot of time. And he played really well last night. He creates a lot of chances with Billy and Kunitz. So I think he's going to have to keep his head up and keep working the same way.   
  
  Q. Can I just ask about the officiating? Have you thought it's been pretty lenient? And has it been the kind of officiating you've seen all year?   
 KRIS LETANG: I mean, they don't call a lot of calls, but it's fine. It's both ways. I think it's been pretty good so far.   
  
  Q. Is Detroit doing a better job of taking away the point shots by keeping their guys high, then maybe the opponents you've seen in these playoffs?   
 KRIS LETANG: I mean, they play a zone coverage, and it's always tough to get some shots through because they're really spread. They cover the zone really well.   
 But when they cover the points, it means it opens the center of the zone, so our forwards have to take advantage of this.   
  
  Q. Tyler, can you just talk a little about Marc-Andre Fleury? He's taking a lot of heat for being in the 0-2 hole for you guys. And maybe just about last year and you think about Game 5 in the finals and the way he stepped up, and the confidence that you guys have that he can get it done on this stage?   
 TYLER KENNEDY: Yeah, I think we've got you a lot of confidence in Marc. We know he's going to bounce back. I think he's playing well, but everyone's expecting him to be a miracle worker. But he's going to bounce back, and we believe in him.   
  
  Q. What is the mood like for you guys today coming to the rink? Obviously you played well in the first two games but you don't have a win yet?  
 TYLER KENNEDY: Yeah, the results are not in our favor, but I think everyone's got his head up. It looks like the series against Washington. We played well enough to win, but we didn't get the results, so we have to keep our head up and keep working the same way.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about the importance of getting the "D" involved defensively with such a hot goalie?   
 KRIS LETANG: Obviously you want, yeah, it's going to be really important to bring a lot of shots to the net. Their goalie made a key save, and we have to get in the net front presence, and make sure we get all the rebounds and create from there.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT