NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HURRICANES v PENGUINS
May 22, 2009
Tyler Kennedy
Kris Letang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about coming here and how it gets loud?   
 TYLER KENNEDY: Yeah, you know, I heard it's a great crowd. They're steady most of the game, and it should be fun.   
  
  Q. I guess Malkin's third goal, what you thought of that?   
 TYLER KENNEDY: He's an amazing player. He shows he's got a lot of tricks in the bag, that's for sure. He's playing great right now.  
  
  Q. Is that really the play?   
 TYLER KENNEDY: That's a secret.   
  
  Q. Would you ever think about trying to pull that move coming around the net?   
 TYLER KENNEDY: Maybe not me, but maybe my line mates. But not me.   
  
  Q. Talk about some of the things you guys want to maybe shore up defensively before tomorrow night's game?   
 TYLER KENNEDY: Yeah, I think we want to play well at the blue line, you know. Keep the pucks deep, and try to get the puck over the line so they have to come out and go back in. So I think we try to play strong defensively and just bury our opportunities.   
  
  Q. Is that, obviously, the fans like a game like that. Would you say the players do, too?   
 TYLER KENNEDY: Well, the guys like putting points up, but I think we were more worried about winning games than putting up points.  
 KRIS LETANG: I mean, there's always like frustration in a game. When that happens like this, I saw everyone coming after the crosscheck. I mean, I really appreciate that from my teammates. When I have to fight a guy like this, it's a tough thing to do. But I try to hold my ground.   
  
  Q. Do you think that that will spill over into Game 3 in Carolina, or is that just a moment of emotion?   
 KRIS LETANG: I mean, we saw in the Game 2 like a lot of emotion. So probably with the end we're going to see a lot more emotion in Game 3.   
  
  Q. Chris, everybody was obviously excited that you guys got six past Cam Ward. But was it especially among the defensemen was there a concern that that game was 4-4 going into early in the third period?   
 KRIS LETANG: No, obviously, there's a lot of adjustments to do. When you allow four goals on four shots, you know you've got to be more strong in front of the net or along the wall. So we're going to review the play and adjust from there.  
  
  Q. Can you reenact just Malkin's goal, that third goal again?   
 KRIS LETANG: I was on the ice, and I was like right in the lane with his backhand. I was like, oh, my God, nobody can do it except him and Sid and all these superstars.   
 It was like when I guy can step up like this for a teammate, it's great.   
  
  Q. Cris, knowing what Carolina has done in Game 2 in this series do you guys sense that you need to have this game?   
 KRIS LETANG: Obviously, you want to win the first two games at home. But like I said, we heard that they never lost a Game 2, but we didn't really care about that. We were coming here and trying to have a better game than Game 1.   
  
  Q. You met some of the guys that stepped in during the fight. Miroslav is not a guy that normally fights. But especially when you see a guy like that, does that really show you what kind of team you've got?   
 KRIS LETANG: Yeah, when you see that from a guy like Miroslav, you're like, well, everyone's ready to go: Yeah, you see everyone is ready to go. Especially a guy like Miroslav, that's great.   
  
  Q. How much or how little does a 2-0 lead mean against this team?   
 KRIS LETANG: They always battle really hard. I mean, you saw against Washington they were up 2-0 against us, and we got back. So nothing is guaranteed right now.   
 We just have to go there and keep going and keep the same momentum.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT