NHL ALL-STAR WEEKEND
January 20, 1996
Paul Kariya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What was it like being out there? 
 
PAUL KARIYA:  It was great.  I wish I could have a had a camera and keep the memories.  It was a great thrill.  Smiling losing the game, but still, it was nice. 
 

Q.  Nice that it was a close game?
 
PAUL KARIYA:  Yeah, I think the fans enjoyed it.  We were into it.  Everybody was cheering when we scored.  It was a good atmosphere. 
 

Q.  (INAUDIBLE.)
 
PAUL KARIYA:  First one I -- he was sitting back in the net and looked like he was covering the lower part of the ice and when they do that, I usually like going up top.  Got it up. 
 

Q.  (INAUDIBLE.)
 
PAUL KARIYA:  In a game, I mean, it is a lot easier than the skill competition.  Once the puck drops I am relaxed, I have played a lot of games before; that was easy.  Skills competition is something different. It is one-on-one competition all the time and once it is in a team atmosphere, I relax.  
 

Q.  How did you feel walking out first today?
 
PAUL KARIYA:  I was excited.  I don't think my smile left my face the whole time.  It was great to be out there with those guys, and I learned a lot from them, and a lot of great memories. 
 

Q.  Gretzky give you any advice?
 
PAUL KARIYA:  Not really.  Actually when he scored the goal it was sort of my fault, I should have known that Wayne was behind, I tried to make a direct pass instead of rinking it around and I came back, but he just mentioned that out there. 
 

Q.  How do you feel about your overall play?
 
PAUL KARIYA:  I thought it was pretty good. It is difficult for all of us when there is five lines to try and stay loose and stay ready -- my legs were burning more tonight than ever I think this year just because you are sitting around, but overall it went pretty well. 
 

Q.  What went through your mind just prior to being introduced to the crowd?
 
PAUL KARIYA:  Nothing was going through my mind.  Just didn't want to fall or trip on a wire. 
 

Q.  (INAUDIBLE.)
 
PAUL KARIYA:  It is fine.  That is what it is all about, it is playing the game.  Yesterday when they  hit me for that target shootout, I only got one out of 8 in Anaheim and I I don't want to make a fool out of myself, so I got one better.  It was a lot of fun playing the game. 
 

Q.  (INAUDIBLE.)
 
PAUL KARIYA:  Really nice.  One of the best finishes.  Giving him the puck, he is going to bury it. 
 

Q.  (INAUDIBLE.)
 
PAUL KARIYA:  The puck sort of fumbled on me and that is why I turned it up.  I had a two on one with Wayne and I didn't feel like we had the right position or whatever and I turned it up and saw him. He is always moving. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT