NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: MIGHTY DUCKS v DEVILS
June 7, 2003
Paul Kariya
Steve Rucchin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Paul, first of all, how do you feel and what was your coach saying to you at the end of the game at the bench?

PAUL KARIYA:  I feel good.  It was a big win for our club.  We're excited about the Game  7.  Mike was just saying good job and we're ready to go.

Q.  Paul, did you see the hit coming at all?  Did you see anything like that and did it knock you out?

PAUL KARIYA:  Well, I sensed he was there, but I thought I had a little bit more time than that.  That's Scott's game.  He's very patient with his hits, and he times them right.  But I thought it was a little bit late.

Q.  Did it knock you out?

PAUL KARIYA:  No.

Q.  Paul, I guess you answered the question I was going to ask you.  Were you admiring the pass a little bit too much as well?

PAUL KARIYA: I thought I had a little bit more time when I made the pass.  I thought he was going to be backed up a little bit.  He stepped up, and those things happen.

Q.  Paul, how long did it take just for the cobwebs to clear after that?

PAUL KARIYA:  No, I was pretty clear.  He's a big guy, but I went to the dressing room.  The doctors did some tests.  I felt great.  Made sure everything was fine, got back on the ice.

Q.  Paul, Colin Campbell sent a message that it was a legal hit.  Do you disagree with that rule?  Do you think it's a bad rule?  Do you think it needs to be changed?

PAUL KARIYA:  Well, that's Scott's game obviously, and I thought he was a little bit late.  I didn't look at a replay of it or anything like that.  Water under the bridge.  It woke me up.

Q.  You said it was late, was it a cheap shot?

PAUL KARIYA:  Well, I didn't like the hit obviously, but that's Scott's game.  He's a patient guy.  He waits for his opportunity, and he's done that throughout his career.

Q.  Steve, can you talk about what type of a lift it was to have Paul come back in the game and what to expect for Game  7?

STEVE RUCCHIN:  Well, I expect the same thing from Paul in Game  7.  That's just a sign of leadership right there to come back after that and score that goal.  What a huge goal.  We got a few timely goals from some guys tonight.  I just can't say enough about that play.  What a competitor.

Q.  Steve, what were your thoughts when you saw Paul go down?  You guys have been such friends and through so much together and your thoughts on getting out to a fast start?

STEVE RUCCHIN:  First of all, I was really concerned about his well-being.  I didn't see the hit.  You see a guy laying on the ice, like I said, I was concerned about Paul and whether he was going to be okay.  You lose a guy like Paul, it doesn't matter what team he's on, that could be a huge blow.  We were playing well as a team.  I still felt confident in our game at the time, but it was definitely a lift when he came back.  And then to see him go to the net like that, you can't say enough about his desire in this situation and then to score that goal.  It was just a huge goal for us.  I expect the same from him in Game  7.

Q.  Paul, can you describe the emotion of coming back out on the ice for you personally and describe the goal that you scored in the second?

PAUL KARIYA:  Well, it was a nice ovation from the crowd.  I didn't expect anything, but it was a nice lift.  The goal, I was just going down the wing and that's where I like to put it in that situation, and made a good shot and that's it. 

Q.  I know you were probably initially mostly concerned with how you were feeling.  But was any part in your mind thinking this is Game 6, I've got to respond in a way that lifts my team?  It clearly lifted both you and your team.  Did you think about that at all as that time was going on?

PAUL KARIYA:  No, I was making sure everything was fine.  Obviously I was rearing to get out there and play again.  The doctors cleared me to go and I was back on the ice.

Q.  Two questions.  Paul, have you made any adjustments to your game offensively given that you've scored a goal and three assists in the last two games?  And, Steve, with the injuries and the death of your brother, how special, how meaningful is what's going through this right now, this Stanley Cup series?

STEVE RUCCHIN:  Well, the last couple of years have been tough definitely.  This more than makes up for it.  You can't dream of anything more, a chance to win the Stanley Cup in Game  7.  It doesn't get much better than that.  At the same time, I'm happy to be able to share this opportunity with some guys that have been here awhile.  One of them is Paul.  It means a lot for some of the downs we have had as an organization to get this chance and get some respect in the League.  That's the biggest thing I think is to be able to share this with some teammates that I've played with.

Q.  Did you make any adjustments to your game offensively over the last two days?

PAUL KARIYA:  Well, they're a very good defensive team.  They don't give any odd-man rushes.  They always seem to have three or four guys back in the neutral zone.  The biggest thing is staying patient and waiting for your opportunity.  We haven't been getting any opportunities with the powerplay and we have been struggling with it.  Just staying patient and capitalizing on the chances you get.

Q.  Paul, can you appreciate the drama of that moment obviously coming back and getting that goal before the crowd here?

PAUL KARIYA:  No, just you got to go out there and make plays.  That's my job to produce offensively.  I haven't been doing it very well in this series, so I wanted to help the team and solidify the win.

Q.  Paul, Coach Babcock said that you had been called out by the media and that you were answering that call.  Is that accurate?  Do you feel that?

PAUL KARIYA:  No.  You guys do your job and I do my job on the ice.  I haven't been playing well through the first part of the series, but I knew it was going to come.  I felt good physically, and it was just a matter of time.

Q.  Paul, did he hit you with the elbow, his shoulder, or do you even remember what he got you with on that hit?

PAUL KARIYA:  I saw a couple replays.  It looked a little bit like the elbow.  That's the way he hits, so it's a fine line there.

Q.  Paul, when you're a kid playing Game  7 in the driveway, how does it end up for you?

PAUL KARIYA:  Well, winning obviously.  But when I was a kid growing up, I didn't have that vivid of an imagination.  I was just going out there and playing.  I didn't think about it too much.

Q.  Paul, we've seen Scott Stevens deliver those hits and give guys concussions.  You have had one in the past.  Is there any reason why you didn't get one there?  Do you have a different helmet? 

PAUL KARIYA:  Different helmet and mouth guard.  I never wore one before.  It gagged me a little bit but I found a good one that worked.  I have been wearing it for four years now and also the helmet is a little thicker foam, the one that Patty LaFontaine used when he came back.

Q.  Steve, could you determine the outcome of the Game  7 when you were a kid?

STEVE RUCCHIN:  Scoring the overtime winner, of course.  The I think the biggest thing is you just dream  -- you just hope for this opportunity, and we have been given this opportunity .  We did a great job tonight to give ourself a chance in Game  7.  That's all you can ask for.  Here we are.  We're feeling good about ourselves and the way we're playing right now.  We need to continue.  Of course, it is going to be an exciting game.  But we're looking forward to it and we're ready.  We all have another long flight tomorrow.  


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT