NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: MIGHTY DUCKS v DEVILS
May 29, 2003
Paul Kariya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  (Inaudible)?

PAUL KARIYA: We're not frustrated, we haven't played our game.  We're disappointed in ourselves for not managing the puck better. 

Q.  Paul, the objective is to win but first you have to score.  You have not been able to penetrate the Devils' defense?

PAUL KARIYA: No.  We've got to create more traffic  where we will have to generate more offense.

Q.  What are they doing to you individually, Paul, to keep you from getting shots on goal?

PAUL KARIYA: They're a very good defensive team.  Obviously, they have five guys playing defensively and they have two very good guys.  We have some chances.  We have to keep pushing.

Q.  It has to be disheartening to lose again 3-0?

PAUL KARIYA: Yes, it is.

Q.  (Inaudible)?

PAUL KARIYA: We know we haven't played our best game, not even close to our best game.  We're going to come out next game and handle the puck better, Generate some offense.

Q.  How surprised are you that you're down 0-2?

PAUL KARIYA: Well, we knew coming into it that the Devils were a great hockey club, and obviously, we didn't want this coming out of Jersey.  That's the position we're in.  We'll have to come out to it.

Q.  Do you see the same thing coming out of this team the next game?

PAUL KARIYA: We're going to be strong, we're going to stay together.  This is a setback for us.  We're going to be much better next game, and we're not going to get out of our system and out of what's got us here.  There is a reason why we have had success.

Q.  When you play a defensive team like New Jersey how important is it for you guys to score first?

PAUL KARIYA: It's very important.  I think in the Ottawa series that every team that was the first team that scored, won the game.  I think we have to get a goal early and get them to open up a little bit and turn the tides on them.  The three series we played very well defensively against the other teams and Jersey is now doing it to us.

Q.  Is there any reason why after the first period the second period kills you?

PAUL KARIYA: We were better in the first period.  We played better certainly than the first game.  Second period, we got a powerplay goal.  We just didn't manage the puck well and play with our heads.  We're making poor plays out there.

Q.  After what's happening in the first two games, is there a certain amount of soul searching this club has to do?

PAUL KARIYA: Everyone has to look at themselves individually.  Everybody individually has to play better and collectively as a team, we've got to step it up.

Q.  Is there a strategy change you will have to do?

PAUL KARIYA: That's the success we have had in the first three rounds, and now they're doing it to us.  You have to release the pick quickly.  We're doing a very poor job, and most goalies are going to make the first save if they see it.

Q.  Is there a way to explain why you haven't played your best hockey, especially this game, knowing that it's an important game?

PAUL KARIYA: Obviously it was a huge game.  You have to give credit to the Devils for playing good defensive hockey, and capitalizing on their chances, but the onus has to be on us, too.  When we move the puck well we create scoring chances.  When we don't, we're giving it to them and we're attacking us.  When we don't have the puck, we're getting greedy enough on the puck.

Q.  What do you think you can change?

PAUL KARIYA: Myself?  Obviously, I can't have a game without any shots.  I have to generate more offensively.  As a team we can't get out of our system and what's got us here.  We can't open up and run a gun with these guys.  They'll eat us apart.  We have to be patient.  

Q.  (Inaudible.)

PAUL KARIYA: Yeah, you need four guys in the play to generate against these guys.  You have to move the puck well.  You have to play a 60-minute game against this team.

Q.  How much of it has been them and how much of you has been you guys?

PAUL KARIYA: It's a combination.  It's not one or the other.  They play very well defensively, but we're not doing our job out there, moving the puck and making plays. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT