WGC NEC INVITATIONAL
August 27, 1999
Andrew Coltart
Sergio Garcia
Padraig Harrington
Colin Montgomerie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  I'm very tired, physically and mentally.  35 holes was too much today.  It's unfortunate, but never mind.  Somebody said to me that this is not the sort of course you should be playing 35 holes a day.  And I said:  Not when you're as tired as I am. 
 
ANDREW COLTART:  It's been a long day and a tough one.  My front nine this afternoon was pretty good, but I took a 6 at the 4th and an another 6 on the 16th, which was disappointing.  I didn't feel any extra pressure today.  But being a Ryder Cup wild card, I've had a tremendous reaction to getting in the team.  I've been playing solid for a few months now, I've been very consistent week in, week out.  And it's fantastic to be going to Brookline.  This is a great experience this week.  Undoubtedly, it will do me go to get another tournament over here under my belt.  You need a lot of patience here, and I'm learning all the time.  In any major championship over here, and also in this tournament, level par is a helluva score.  You have to graft for 18 holes and keep patient. 
   
 
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  That was a bit better this afternoon.  I'd only had one practice round, and I wasn't sure of the lines to take in my opening round; so, I made a few mistakes.  It was not very good this morning.  I was always struggling, but as I say, the afternoon was a lot better.  To be honest, it's not a bundle of fun out there.  I have to work hard.  I should be possibly more motivated, but after the last few weeks, I feel on a bit of a downer.  I now have to try and focus over the weekend.  I know from playing in the Walker Cup that it's no fun to make the team if you don't perform.  I haven't given myself a pat on the back for making the team.  I want to do well at Brookline.  I was very pleased with the 67, and it was nice to birdie the last.  I hit a 4-iron 208 yards to four feet.  That was nice. 
   
 
SERGIO GARCIA:  It's been a very long day. At the end, I missed a good chances at 14 and 16, but  I'm happy with the result, considering the way I played.  I'll have to go and try to repair the swing. It's very tight at the top, though, and I'm have an I'm in a good position.  If I go out and shoot a good round and maybe 2-, or 3-under, that will be good tomorrow.  Paul Lawrie is playing very well.  He showed at the Open what he could do and it's great for the Ryder Cup team and he's up at the top of the leaderboard.  It was different today playing with Tiger, as I had only played with him in practice before.  Neither of us played very well, but these things happen. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT