BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 25, 2009
Andrew Coltart
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You're 5-under today, you must be delighted with that round.   
 ANDREW COLTART: I'm delighted. A bit of a low-scoring golf course and you have to try to sink the putts when you can. Today I played with guys that were playing really good golf as well and the three of us sort of inspired one another while we were out there.   
  
  Q. What were the conditions like?  
 ANDREW COLTART: Yeah, incredibly heavy under foot. It's a shame, BMW, they try so hard and they put a great deal of time and effort into producing a great championship the several times that they have one each year, and unfortunately there's been a lot of rain here. And the shower that we had out there about an hour ago, they just can't take much more. It's going to become unplayable quite quickly if we get more sporadic showers like that. It was a long walk.   
  
  Q. You've certainly come into form today. What was the key to your round?  
 ANDREW COLTART: I have no idea. You know, the putting's been pretty miserable of late. I've been working at it with my coach, Colin Brooks, he's over here this week. We were on the putting green yesterday having a wee chat with Jamie Spence, who is always pretty magical with a wand, and he offered a couple of things, and put them to the test today and they seemed to work.   
  
  Q. Any goals for this week?   
 ANDREW COLTART: No, but I wouldn't mind getting in the Top-10. I failed to qualify for the French Open next week so would not mind getting in the Top-10 and getting in that way.   
  
  Q. Where were you on the delay?  
 ANDREW COLTART: 15th green. Five minutes of that downpour and the puddles are starting to materialise in places where they just disappeared from. It's incredibly heavy. I suppose we are very fortunate we even managed to get play today with the work the guys have done overnight and stuff like that, because it's almost bordering on unplayable.   
  
  Q. Did you try to qualify for the French Open?  
 ANDREW COLTART: Yeah, Monday, Tuesday.   
  
  Q. This week?  
 ANDREW COLTART: Yeah. Tried to qualify, Chantilly, one of the best golf courses I've played, absolutely sensational.   
  
  Q. Close?  
 ANDREW COLTART: No. Not even.   
  
  Q. Did you seek an invite?  
 ANDREW COLTART: I sent an e-mail to the tournament director just inquiring what the possibilities were, but you know, it's very, very difficult these days. It's a hell of a lot of good players that they are deserving of invites. And a couple of Frenchmen, one in particular, who kept his card last year, who didn't think was going to get in off his ranking, which I think is a bit strange really when you consider he's kept his card the previous year. You may have to look at that and see, I'm not making a fool of myself; I don't think 115 is going to get in, is it? DeLamontagne is not going to get in. Anybody who keeps their card deserves to get in and play most of the events.   
 There's obviously loads of other guys, people that they are going to consider. I tried to qualify and failed to qualify by a long shot, but I did enjoy my two rounds around Chantilly. There are other ways, but if not, just get on with it.   
  
  Q. Nice to bounce back here?  
 ANDREW COLTART: Nice to hole a couple of putts, because I played pretty good quite a spell, but the putting tailed off a bit.   
 You know, this line that everybody here is all talking about is incredibly fine. One or two putts go in, all of a sudden you're playing at the weekend, or one or two and you don't; three or four go in, you're contesting. It's tight. Chantilly, 36 putts in the second round, you're just not going to do anything carrying that kind of baggage.   
  
  Q. Has that been a key? Before a run of missed cuts, you had good results.   
 ANDREW COLTART: Yeah, I've been hitting the ball pretty good for quite a while. I've been fairly confident with my swing and the way I'm hitting the ball and I'm enjoying that part of it. It's just tough when you're hitting some good shots and you're 2-putting; it looks like you're useless with the blade.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT