COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
January 22, 2009
Andrew Coltart
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RODDY WILLIAMS: Former champion, but the fact that you got your card must give you confidence for the season.
 ANDREW COLTART: My career wasn't really going anywhere other than one direction, down. I was on the career Money List, which is a funny way of looking at the best players as we have been playing for a lot more money over the last 15 years, and I was involved in that category so was not achieving anything out on the golf course, and ended up losing the card last year and had to go back to Tour School. 
 Went back to Tour School and things were going pretty well. I was working hard with Colin Brooks back in Edinburgh and things were going really well and I was quite confident going into Tour School, played well and played well and achieved something again. Played well in South Africa and managed to play well here this week after the Christmas break. 

 Q. Highlights of round?
 ANDREW COLTART: Definitely a highlight was the eagle, managed to drive it to ten feet and holed the putt. 
 Had a good one at 12, but on top of that was just steady play and giving myself chances. There were four more from inside ten feet, which was quite pleasing, because the wind was getting a bit tricky. It was nice to get those opportunities from that range. That was good. 

 Q. Just one dropped shot?
 ANDREW COLTART: I three putted the sixth. I hit a good drive just to the left edge of the fairway, hit a 7-iron. Thought the wind was going to move it to the green a little bit, got on to the edge, the top tier, about 50 feet from the hole and knocked it three feet by the side. Other than that, everything was all right. 

 Q. You have played every Qatar Masters bar one - how does the course compare?
 ANDREW COLTART: I think the golf course is very good. I'm not a fan of golf course that is set up with this foot deep rough where the professionals that end that up in that place, they just have to chop out with a sand iron. 
 A golf course that's designed with a lot of trouble around the green and when you have got rough that long -- if you drive in the rough and you wedge it, the next shot is a 9-iron or a wedge from there. 
 I like a golf course that has a little bit of rough that entices you to take on the shot and take the gamble and if you don't control your ball well around the green. The last couple of years they have done that very well here. I think it sets up fair and the rough is fair, not ridiculously thick - you can still get some bad lies and its difficult to control the golf ball and the greens are very good. They are firm, I heard some of the guys saying that although they were the Americans and they play on puddings all the time. You know, the greens are firm and you know, you've just got to keep your wits about you and obviously when the wind blows you, you have to try and play smart. I like the way this sets up here and I managed to feel comfortable. 

 Q. And the tournament, as well, strong field for a Tour event. 
 ANDREW COLTART: Isn't it amazing. That's a tremendous achievement. Yes, considering the events that we have in the Middle East and the field here in Qatar, a phenomenal achievement. Eight of the top 20. It's sensational. It's great they are here. Doha has already created a niche in the world sporting market with the Games they had and the tennis and the golf and it's marvellous. It has improved massively over the last 11 years It's sensational. I think it's fantastic and long may it continue. 

 Q. Is it horses for courses?
 ANDREW COLTART: I've been long in the tooth -- I do have good memories coming back here and I've played well the last few years at home, and coming back as a past champion and playing it. I know the golf course well, so that helps. 

 Q. Did losing your card and getting it back make you realize what you wanted?
 ANDREW COLTART: Losing the card and doing the media work, really hit home this is where I still want to be while I'm still strong enough and fit enough to compete, I want to be out here and I hope to stay out here for several more years. But it difficult out here with so many players, you have to work hard and stay fit. Hopefully I can do that, but while I can, I just want to be out here playing. 

 Q. This year you have a card?
 ANDREW COLTART: Since I got my card back, there is self worth in that. When you're just hanging on, with an iffy category, it wasn't nice asking for invited but I was very fortunate with the promoters and the sponsors that gave me invites. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS: Thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT