COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
January 26, 2008
Andrew Coltart
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ANDREW COLTART:  Yeah, obviously I've played nicely the last few days.  I've been fortunate enough to use the facilities golf centre in Edinburgh, and I've been working with Colin up there and I've been happy with what we've been working on.  The three weeks leading up to this, I was using that and obviously that worked and seeing the pictures to give myself a bit of confidence and managed to bring it out on the course and I've hit a lot of really good shots, so I'm quite happy.   
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  Obviously last year was a very difficult year for you, so what does this round and this performance so far this week mean to you?   
 ANDREW COLTART:  Well, it means a lot just definitely, obviously, to be able to shoot that score again and to get myself back into contention again.  You know, hopefully the position I'm in, people will pick up and sort of want me in their field, their tournament.  That would be very nice and obviously I'd like to try and win.   
 You know, just you guys are always a fantastic vehicle for us and just every opportunity you can get to get your name in the papers or in the television or whatever is tremendous, and it's helping me in the situation that I'm in to hopefully get one of these invites and be able to get my card back that way.   
  
  Q.  Are you taking it one step at a time?   
 ANDREW COLTART:  Yeah, just the tournaments I've got into, I've played well in the past, and anything can happen tomorrow.  There's 15 guys that are capable of winning, so there's 14 other guys thinking that they are going to do it and you've just got to play your own game, one shot at a time.   
 I don't mind looking at leaderboards and I'll do that if I'm two or three shots back with a few holes to play but you just play the course and hopefully that will take you.   
  
  Q.  It means a lot to you personally?   
 ANDREW COLTART:  Not necessarily but it means a lot at the minute to me -- yeah, because of the place that I've fallen back down to, yeah.   
  
  Q.  Hoe did you fall down?   
 ANDREW COLTART:  Ultimately it was a monumental loss of confidence.  I do believe that -- there's so much money to play for out here now.  It's a fantastic tour, and you know, golfers, they can just pull shots out of their bag one week of the year and you hope that that will salvage your season, but in doing that, you can also continue in a downward spiral and not perform and not perform and not perform and keep coming home on a Friday with no money in your pocket, two grand out of pocket and that hits you.  And then you get up, you shake yourself down and wake up on a Monday only to go home again on a Friday.   
 You almost need to take a big step back and take a lot of time off.  It's almost a case of burnout.   
  
  Q.  Does the fact that you have won here before help?   
 ANDREW COLTART:  Yeah, obviously I know what it's like being in that position, even though it's a long, long time ago but just grabbing ahead of the memories and knowing that you can do it.  And other guys are going to go out there anxious and nervous and trying not to watch what other players are doing.   
 You know, just I've been in that situation before one or two times before, so I don't have to prove to anybody that I can win because I know he can.   
  
  Q.  Is it an all or nothing tomorrow?   
 ANDREW COLTART:  Certainly won't be on the golf course tomorrow.  You know, it's the start of looking at three years to hopefully get myself back into the realms of World Ranking points from the early 90s.   
  
  Q.  How low did you get?   
 ANDREW COLTART:  Pretty crappy, yeah.  No, you could get very, very low.  You start asking questions about yourself and you know, you look at kids and the whole thing starts to smack you in the face.  I was telling the SKY guys -- these experiences are very, very humbling but very, very good because you start to appreciate a lot of things roundabout you, family and friends and the situation you're in compared to others more unfortunate.  That actually is a huge plus.   
 But you still get quite low when you come back every Friday and you're not making any money and you're not making any money and you look at your kids and they are laughing and joking which is a good thing but you're just wondering when the next check is going to come in.   
  
  Q.  You saw Lee over Christmas - did he have anything to say about your situation?   
 ANDREW COLTART:  No, when we came up, it was my father's 70th, and came up again just before Christmas and stayed for a day.  We just had a laugh.  We had a laugh about all the kids getting together and the family getting together which was fantastic.  We didn't really talk much about golf.  We had a wee chat about golf, might have been October sometime.   
 He was quite helpful, actually and it was nice listening to some of the things he said.  It was interesting that he would feel certain things that I would feel and some people out there would maybe not think he would be conscious of those thoughts, so that was encouraging.   
  
  Q.  A good result tomorrow?   
 ANDREW COLTART:  You know, I just want to get my playing privileges back, and so I'm more than grateful for a few invites if I can get them and hopefully try to take advantage of them.   
  
  Q.  Where else are you playing - how many belak weeks do you have?   
 ANDREW COLTART:  At the moment, it's about -- Indonesia, Madeira, and I don't know, what is that, 44, 45 weeks -- 46.  So anything you can do, I would much appreciate.  (Laughter).   
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  Good luck tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT