VOLVO PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2002
Andrew Coltart
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 SCOTT CROCKETT:   Ladies and gentlemen, thank YOU very much.  Andrew, thank you very much for coming in.  67, very good start.  You all have Andrew's details there. Kick us off, Andrew, nice way to finish, nice back 9
ANDREW COLTART: I think, obviously, few birdie chances out there, a few par 5s coming in.  You just got to remain patient when you are out there and not make too many clumsy errors, given these opportunities on the back nine. 
SCOTT CROCKETT:  Obviously as a member you have been asked quite a bit about the changes.  Take us through how you feel about them.
ANDREW COLTART: Well, anytime the changes affect the longer hitters, I quite like them.  And the likes of -- well, 15, two more bunkers up the left-hand side at 15, that gives them a chance to think about it a little bit because prior to that, they could just blow it right over the top, the one bunker that was there.  Now they have got to think.  16, same kind of scenario.  Again, maybe in the past been able to hit 3-wood over the top of that first bunker and natural contours of the fairway take you round.  Perhaps a little bit cause for concern for them.  13, the tees gone back.  I would imagine there perhaps they can still maybe fly (inaudible) that trap on the right-hand side; whereas the shot (inaudible).  It's made that hole a lot, lot tougher.  You are going in there now with medium to long iron; if it is into the breeze, maybe even more than that - probably got to shape your secondhand shot around the corner of the trees, and from what I can gather, it's the way the hole was initially supposed to be played, when it was designed all those years ago.  So I don't particularly have too many qualms about it. 

Q.   Seemed that you had to sort of hold on over the first few holes.  You got the wind right in your face on those first few holes.  Was that the case for you as well, just  -- to make sure you didn't do anything silly on those first few holes?
ANDREW COLTART: I think so, pretty much is always like that at Wentworth, two tough opening par 4s.

Q.   Wind right against you today; wasn't it?
ANDREW COLTART: Yeah, no, off the left down one.  And a little bit -- I think a little bit more into it up 3.  It certainly didn't make the 4th hole a lot easier.  It was playing more into the wind and that was  -- that tends to be -- you look at that one as almost a gimme 4.  You had to think about that one a bit more today.  But yeah, perhaps, a little bit of a trickier start.  Definitely 4th hole was playing a lot longer.

Q.   Can you confirm that you are physically fit and anything wrong with your back?
ANDREW COLTART: No.  I am just -- seem to be no trouble picking the ball out of the hole just like my fellow Scotsman.  He seemed to be bending down there quite the thing, no problem. 

Q.   Your form has been coming along steadily last two, three weeks; hasn't it?
ANDREW COLTART: I feel like I have been playing all right.  Just waiting for some putts to drop.  I haven't really been playing badly at all.  It's just one of these things you just go through a little stage where nothing much happens and I think it depends how you handle that, as to how quickly you can come out of it. 
Yeah, I haven't played great.  I mean, I haven't  -- the results haven't been great, but I have just been hopefully trying to learn a bit more and just accept what is happening and just walk away and work harder and harder on certain aspects of the game, and try and just be patient and try and wait and seed what transpires. 

Q.   The fact that the Tour is so long now, so much money to play for.  Even (inaudible) so many big events lots of money to play for, so many different sections of the year that you know eventually when you come out there's still a heck of a lot to play more.  The year is never over 'til it's over....
ANDREW COLTART: Sure.  Definitely.  You are always trying to get into the top 50 in the world and then -- I know Paul McGinley, when he has got into the top 50 and he's probably changed his goals a bit and try and push himself hard.  I think as a golfer, certainly as tournament professional you are continually doing that.  If you lose a bit of determination -- there should be plenty of targets out there to give you the kick up the backside. 

Q.   Talk about how you handle -- did you do that?
ANDREW COLTART: I am still in there.  One swallow doesn't make a summer, mate.

Q.   You have admitted you have to hit it --(inaudible)?
ANDREW COLTART: I think this if I was playing badly I'd maybe worry about it more, but I honestly haven't felt like I have been playing badly.  I felt like I have been going all right, again, maybe look at the putting stats, the putting hasn't been as good, but working hard at it and trying to come through out there.  Just continue to believe that -- keep -- you have goals and hold onto your goals and try and remember the good moments and the good putts going in and eventually you will start to see them go in rather than wallowing in self pity.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT