CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
December 20, 2020
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   Lexi, a fourth straight top 10 here.  You love Tiburon.  How would you assess the week and another top-quality finish?
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, I mean, I absolutely love it here.  Not only is it only an hour and a half from my house so I can drive here, which is always nice, but the course is always in great shape for us.  We got great weather once again.
Just the atmosphere of the whole event.  Hospitality we get is unbelievable.  And unfortunately we didn't have fans, but we had a few out there, so we did what we could.
Q. Take me through just the next few weeks.  We got a shortened off-season, two tiered off-season before Diamond in the middle.  What are your plans?
LEXI THOMPSON:   Spend holidays with my family, of course.  Just being home with them and just really cherish that time, because unfortunately we don't get it that often.
So I'll enjoy that.  Maybe go somewhere, have a little bit of a vacation, and get right back to the grind.  Improve on my game and get ready for Diamond and then we have about five, six weeks off after that, so more practice then.
But making sure to have that relaxing time as well.
Q. Is that something that maybe you learned from this year, to work into an event with the next couple months?  We have five weeks, an event, five weeks, two events, another couple weeks off.  Is that something you learned in 2020, how you can get rolling in 2021?
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, for sure.  This year unfortunately with how crazy it was and everything going on, but we were fortunate enough to be able to play around 15 times; I played ten or eleven.
But so we just didn't play as much.  Going into next year I know once we start playing we'll be nonstop.  Hopefully the schedule stays as is and we'll just be practicing up ready for Diamond and ready for whatever tournament starts up after that one.
Q. You birdied 13 and got it to 12, and I'm not sure what happened on 14 with the approach shot.
LEXI THOMPSON:   Uh-huh.
Q. A lot of wind out there.  I don't know if that was part of the deal or what.
LEXI THOMPSON:   Uh-huh.  I just laid sod over a pitch.  That's basically what happened.  I hit my layup about 20 yards too far.  The wind got it and hit a rock, so I got way too close.  No excuse.  I just laid sod over it.
And I bogeyed.  I had a really hard bunker shot after that.  I gave myself a few opportunities after that.  Just didn't make them.  It's golf.  I saw she was at 17-under so I'm like, I don't feel as bad now.  I was so far behind anyway.  It is what it is.
Q. What you did you see from her yesterday that you could see what she's doing today happening, particularly the way she's played?
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, of course.  I haven't played with her too much, but I have a few times, and she's just consistent.  Hardly ever makes a mistake, which is great.  Definitely won't get you in trouble much.  Her and Sei Young.  They struck it so well yesterday and made putts.  She didn't make that many putts yesterday, but apparently she is today.  She played great yesterday.
I definitely could see it out of her.  That's why she's No. 1.
Q. Last one I have for you:  Lydia mentioned the wind.  She said she had 9-iron into 18 and today she hit 5-wood.
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah.
Q. Was today maybe one of the more windy days out here?
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, definitely was.  Didn't start off windy but definitely coming mid-front nine all the way through.  I had 4-iron into 18.  They moved the tee back 30 yards, so usually they do that with the front pin because it's not accessible.
Yeah, 18 played a lot different.  One of the windier days, but that's is what makes golf interesting.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT