RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 3, 2017
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Three off the lead, wonderful opening round.  Must have been a challenging one with two weather delays.
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, it was a little bit different.  I wasn't expecting them to call us off just with the rain there, but I guess there was lightning involved.  That's a major, we get called off.  I played well overall.  It was a bit slow there at the end, so I got a little tired, but good finish there.
Q. Talk about your caddie and how much assistance he might be.  Was that the case today?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, he definitely is.  I don't know this golf course really at all besides the practice rounds that I got, and his local knowledge has helped me out tremendously.  I'm very lucky to have him on the bag every week, but especially this week.
Q. It's looking like the morning will be the better half the day tomorrow, as well.  How important will it be for you to take care of those early conditions?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, well, I don't know what the weather has in store for us.  You never know out here, it could change every five minutes basically.  I'm just going to deal with whatever it gives me tomorrow and just go out there and just try to have a solid round.
Q. There was a few challenging with the weather out there today, but how pleased are you with that round of golf?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I'm very pleased with my round of golf.  I played steady golf, hit some great golf shots, and I was stroking it very well on the greens today.  A few weather delays towards the end, so you just have to stay mentally in it.  Got a few tired with a few shots coming in, but ended with a birdie, so big confidence booster going into tomorrow.
Q. You've had a very solid season.  You've moved up to world No. 2.  How confident and comfortable are you with your game coming into this week?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I'm definitely very comfortable.  I had a week off coming into this event, so I just went home and spent time with my family and worked really hard on my game and some things that I needed to improve on, but I've had a great year so far, so I'm just trying to keep it going.
Q. You have a little bit of local knowledge on the bag with your caddie; was he giving you any help?
LEXI THOMPSON: Basically anything that he gives me out here is great help.  I don't know this golf course too well besides the few practice rounds that I got, so local knowledge from Kevin has helped me out tremendously here this week.
Q. It's very early days.  You're very well-placed after round 1, but what's going to be key to coming back tomorrow and continuing to push in that right direction?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, all weather depending really, but just focusing on my targets and committing to my golf shots, doing my routine, same thing I did today, and just be relaxed in between shots because you never know what could happen.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT