RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 4, 2017
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How special was that?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, it was definitely a slow start but I hit it great in the beginning.  Just had two 3-putts.  Hit great shots into the green but ended up 30, 40 feet away and ended up not making the comebacker.  But very happy with the back nine obviously.   
 Q.  We talked about the weather yesterday you played in; nice to go out this morning and kind of take advantage of calmer conditions?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, it was definitely nice getting done in the morning there.  But it was actually probably double the wind what it is now when we teed off.  So it was definitely windier when I teed off.  It's died down.  Hopefully for the afternoon the rain holds off.   
13, I had about 135 and I knew I had to just absolutely crush a pitching wedge, so I just took a little off it but just controlled the flight and ended up going straight through the wind.   
 Q.  Nice little moment at 15.  
LEXI THOMPSON: I never even saw that it sounded huge.  Then my caddie helped me out.  Yeah, a little distraction there.  Just had to refocus on making that putt.   
 Q.  Your caddie, Kevin, obviously a local guy, how big a factor is that for you giving you that experience and local knowledge?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Kevin's been great, not only this week but he's been my best friend on the bag through ten, 11 weeks now we've been playing with each other.  This week he has the local knowledge, so I've been trusting him so much and leaning on him.  He knows this course like the back of his hand, so he's been helping me out a lot.   
 Q.  You're 1-under for the final three.  Playing really difficult today?  
LEXI THOMPSON: They moved the tee to the back tee today and I believe I had 135, so it's just like a little chip wedge because it's downwind and you have to play for the bounce in the lower green.  But yeah, I left it about six feet above the hole and made it.   
 Q.  Thoughts heading into the weekend?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, looking forward to the weekend.  I hit it great today and hopefully just continue that going into the next two days.  But you never know with the weather conditions here, so you just have to take it as it goes.  I'm just going to focus on one shot at a time and see where it takes me.  I'm just happy to be here.   
 Q.  Five consecutive birdies to start the second round as part of a second round 68 that sees you at 9-under and tied for the lead.  How much did you enjoy that back nine today?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I would say I definitely enjoyed that rather than my first few holes.  I had a little bit of a slow start but had a great day.  I knew it was a matter of time before I made a few birdies and just got on a roll.   
 Q.  One better than your brother, Nicholas, who is leading the Web.com.  He had four straight birdies on the back nine.  You beat him on that one.  You are a competitive family, aren't you?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Oh, we definitely are.  Any time we can all get together at home in very competitive matches, it's pretty intense.   
 Q.  You've had a quick turnaround.  You finished late yesterday and out very early today, you're likely to being one of the last tee times going out tomorrow.  How will you spend the next 24 hours?  
LEXI THOMPSON: I'm going to get a little work out in this afternoon and make sure I relax and get ready for tomorrow.  I didn't get much sleep last night with the quick turnaround.  Just focus on relaxing tonight and get a good night's rest.   
 Q.  Bit windier today, but it didn't seem it affect you.  
LEXI THOMPSON: It was actually windier when we teed off.  The first few holes I was like, this is definitely going to play tougher than yesterday but then it calmed down and it was really nice conditions coming in.   
 Q.  How tough was that start?  It was pretty cold, like you say, it was windy.  A bit of a struggle to get going?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, it was definitely a little cooler this morning.  Got the hand warmers in my pocket.  Made sure to get those ready.  It was definitely a little different than yesterday but overall, no rain, so that's a positive here.   
 Q.  You met some of the Kingsbarns wildlife on 15, the bee?  
LEXI THOMPSON: It sounded massive, I didn't see it, I heard it, but it was buzzing and it landed somewhere and that's the worst sign ever.   
 Q.  9-under par now, very well situated, clubhouse leader, how do you think that will sit today?  
LEXI THOMPSON: I don't know if I'll be leading going into the weekend, but I'm not really too focussed on it.  Hopefully the afternoon players get some good conditions and the rain holds off for them.   
 Q.  67, 68 to start.  What's been the key for you so far this week?  
LEXI THOMPSON: I think really just focusing on my targets and committing to them.  It can get a little bit windier out here, so you just have to trust your lines, and having Kevin on my bag knowing the course helps a lot.   
 Q.  What's the best advice he's given you this week?  What's helped the most?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Basically every line off every tee has helped me out so much.  I didn't know what this course was going to bring.  He's told me every line and what the greens do exactly.  It's great to have that local knowledge.   
 Q.  After the two bogeys on the front, you caught fire on the back with five straight birdies.  What changed at the turn?  
LEXI THOMPSON: The two bogeys, I hit great shots, but if you don't carry it far enough or if a pin is on a ridge, I ended up having 30, 40 feet and my shots were going right at the pin and just didn't make the second putt.  I hit great shots, so I was just being patient the whole day and then just got on that streak.   
 Q.  Eighth last year and you're well and truly in the mix, clubhouse leader after two rounds this year.  You really like British golf conditions, don't you?  
LEXI THOMPSON: I'm getting used to it I would say, that's for sure.  Last year was different, Woburn, tree-lined golf course with doglegs and this is definitely more links golf than that.  Just over the years, I've learned links golf and the different types of shots.  I'm learning to like it, that's for sure.   
 Q.  Your caddie has the local knowledge; when you decided to partner up, did you have one eye on this competition and his local knowledge?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, well, this was actually supposed to be his first event on my bag and then we ended up, hey, why not try him out.  He's younger and he was a player, so yeah, we've been working together 10, 11 weeks now.   
 Q.  And he's doing all right?  
LEXI THOMPSON: He's doing great.  We get along very well.  We're like best friends out there and he always keeps me relaxed.  He's a player, so he knows what I'm going through and what to tell me.  The local knowledge has helped me out tremendously.   
 Q.  What happened at the first major of the year, the ANA, has that almost increased your determination to win a major in 2017?  
LEXI THOMPSON: You know it's definitely made me more determined than ever but I've been such a determined person in general, any time I tee it up out there to win, and that's the way it should be.  But yeah, I'm definitely determined to win any tournament I tee it up at.   
 Q.  If it's you winning the trophy on Sunday, would that be golfing redemption?  
LEXI THOMPSON: I'm not too sure.  You know, I don't really have any comments about that tournament anymore.  But I'm just going to focus on one shot at a time on this weekend and see where it goes.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT