U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
July 14, 2017
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How aware were you of what was going on with the President today and in relation to where you were on the golf course?
LEXI THOMPSON: Well, I had heard he was coming to the course today.  I tried not to focus on it too much.  I could tell at the par 5 on the end there's a lot of people around the suite so I figured he was up there and watching.  Unfortunately I didn't hit the best shot in front of him.
Q. Did you notice which way all the fans were facing?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah.  Not towards the golf.
Q. How difficult was it with all the noise to hit your tee shots on 16?  That's a lot louder than it normally would be at a golf event.
LEXI THOMPSON: There were a lot of people around that tee box.  I love playing in front of a bunch of people.  It was a little louder but I grew up with two older brothers that always made noise on my backswing.  I'm kind of used to it.
Q. In a tournament like this with Feng and the other South Korean girl at 8-under, are they currently running away with it?  Does anybody else have a chance to catch up?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I believe a few people have a chance.  I'm quite a ways back but I know I can put a low score out there if I get the putts to drop.
It's U.S. Women's Open.  It is mentally draining and the weekend always makes a lot of people more nervous.  You never know.  You have to focus on your own game and do your best.  That's all you can do.
Q. Lexi, did you take a little peak at the suite on the 15th?
LEXI THOMPSON: I took a glance.  I honestly, I just was trying to focus on my shot.  I really wanted to make birdie on that hole so I was like full determination.  Didn't really focus on that.  I knew there was a lot of people over there.
Q. What happened on that shot?
LEXI THOMPSON: I hit a great 3-wood up there left of the green.  With it being water, around the greens is already very tight.  You just have to be careful with taking loft off the chips.
Co:
I tried to bump a hybrid and got quick and hit it too hard.  Went 12 feet by.  Definitely wasn't my best but that was my first hybrid I had hit.
Q. The little girls with the Lexi shirts were way more excited to see you than the President.  Does that ever get old to see all those kids?
LEXI THOMPSON: Never gets old.  They made my day.  I wasn't expecting to see a big group like that with Lexi on the back of the shirts.  To hear them cheer me on and just to see a smile on their faces out there watching us in the rain, it speaks wonders for the fans that we have.
Q. Lexi, when you play with the President recreationally, do you get nervous or pretty comfortable?
LEXI THOMPSON: Pretty comfortable.  I've gotten to play with him quite a bit.  He plays very fast.  It's a good time.  Definitely entertaining.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT