MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 23, 2017
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  First of all, 17-under, pretty close to winning this thing except for I.K. playing out of her mind.  Your thoughts after your round?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, you know, I put up a good score.  I had a little bit of a rough stretch there in the beginning of my front nine, my back nine, sorry, but overall I'm very happy with the way I played.  You know, I was hitting a cut around the golf course, and that's usually not what I do.  But I managed to put up some good scores, which I'm very happy about.   
 Q.  You got up this morning; did you think I've got a chance to win this and walk away a champ?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Well, yeah, being only three back, I knew if I started off with some birdies and get it going, which I did, but you can't control over players.  You just have to focus on doing your best and controlling your attitude and your game.   
 Q.  Gallery-wise you had the biggest gallery of the day.  Did you feel that?  Did they kind of root you on?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, it was truly amazing just to see the amount of people out supporting us.  You know, the little rain delay, I think we lost like three quarters of the people, but still, to just have the amount of support that I did, it's a huge honor to have those people out cheering me on.   
 Q.  Talk about your mom being able to come out and watch you.  Has that given you a little more peace of mind coming to play?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, it really has.  Just knowing that she's doing better and that she's healthy now, it's definitely put me at peace of mind, and just having her around the last week, it's been a hard few months, just mentally, for all of us, but just to see how strong she is has made me a lot stronger.  It's made me able to come out here and play my best.   
 Q.  I heard your family got a little bit of an assist from Morgan Pressel.  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yes.  Yeah, Morgan and her foundation, they got her in the next day after she heard the news, which her doctor wasn't able to get her in for about two weeks, so it was a huge help.  I've been close with Morgan for quite some time doing her Morgan & Friends event, and she helped me out so much and helped my mom out, which is a big deal.  I'm ever so grateful for her.   
 Q.  You mentioned this before, but 17-under historically wins this tournament.  Is it frustrating to know that you played that well and didn't win, or are you just happy with how you played?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, exactly, I'm very happy with just the way I played, the way I handled myself out on the golf course.  You know, it's not my 100 percent ball-striking week, but I managed to do what I had to with how I was playing and how I was hitting the ball.  17-under, I'm never going to complain with that.  I did my best.  That's all I can do.   
 Q.  What did you think of the course setup today?  I think they had it like 6200 yards.  Obviously No. 9 --  
LEXI THOMPSON: Made it drivable.   
 Q.  Did you enjoy that?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Well, I birdied that hole, so I enjoyed it.  You know, it's definitely interesting to have 9 as a drivable hole.  It's very risk-reward because if you miss the green, you're 30 yards down the slope and have a really hard pitch shot.  It definitely makes it exciting, but I love this golf course.  It's always in great shape.  It's just a good setup.  Definitely a lot of birdies out there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT