KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 1, 2017
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What were your yardages on 5 and 6, and what did you hit, the two birdies?  
LEXI THOMPSON: 5 and 6, I had 164 on No. 5.  I hit an 8-iron to about four feet above the hole.  And then the next hole, the par 5, I actually had pulled my drive and had to pitch out and ended up having about 182 to the pin and I hit a 6-iron to about three feet.   
 Q.  The point is those were two really top shots.  Did you feel like you were going to kind of build on that?  
LEXI THOMPSON: You know, I was swinging it well all day.  It was just all a matter of the putts going in.  I felt like I stroked it a lot better today.  But I hit it very solid, so a lot of positives to take from today into tomorrow.   
 Q.  On the flipside, the putting on 16, did it kind of get away from you a little bit?  
LEXI THOMPSON: On 16, I hit a great second putt actually.  It's just -- it's not easy.  These greens are really tricky and there's a lot of slopes, and 16's pin location was very tough.  I think my putt probably broke ten feet it seemed like.  It's just tough to judge when a putt breaks that much to get the speed correct, and then the next one was straight uphill and it ended up being fast.   
You know, it's golf.  You're going to 3-putt out here and you're going to make bogeys.  It's all a matter of not making worse.   
 Q.  Was it drying out a little bit toward the end of your round?  
LEXI THOMPSON: A little bit.  It got a lot more windy towards the end of the round but greens are still pretty soft.  They are definitely holding a few shots, which is nice, but it will probably be a little bit more drier tomorrow, since there's not going to be any rain.   
 Q.  Do you go out there with a number in mind tomorrow or what's the approach?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Definitely have a number.  It's all a matter of weather conditions.  If it gets a little windy, it's just make your pars and go for the birdies when you can out there and take advantage of the easier holes.  There's not too many out there.   
But yeah, I'm just going to focus on doing my routine, picking my lines and committing to my shots like I have been the last three days.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT