KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 2017
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  The weather, looks really nasty over there, you just made it in last night.  Sometimes it's the luck of the draw, when you have a late/early tee time.  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, it really is.  I just finished yesterday before they blew that home and so we got very lucky.  It was actually supposed to rain all morning.  Looks like we are going to get lucky once again today.   
 Q.  Let me show you a couple of shots, lucky or unlucky that they didn't go in because these were really, really close.  That's your second at 16.  Take a look at that?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Oh, wow.  I couldn't see the bottom of the pin from there.  So that was just a 7-iron from 169.   
 Q.  And there's the replay.  You said you saw the ball mark, how close it was.  What did it look like to you?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, it looked good the whole way.  I just couldn't tell.  I knew it landed a little short, probably rolled just past.   
 Q.  How about this one at 18?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, this one at 18, 180 yards.  I hit a 6-iron.  It was flag the whole way.  So I was eyeing it.  Just a matter of distance.  Once I fixed that pitch mark, it was like, I had to be close.   
 Q.  And the eagle putt, what were you thinking here?  
LEXI THOMPSON: You know, I struggled a bit all day on the greens, and I just focused on staying very still on that putt.  It was a little bit of a slider downhill left-to-righter, and just tried to stay still over it and I struck it very well.   
 Q.  We've been talking the last couple days about your mom, and her health concerns.  How hard is it for you to concentrate this week while you're thinking about your mother's health?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, it is very difficult.  That's why I've been taking time off, going back and spending it with my mom.  Very family oriented and for that to happen to my mom, it was a big downer.  She's a fighter and that's where I get it from, so I know she's always here no matter what and hopefully she'll be recovered.   
 Q.  Right now you're four shots off the lead and you called yourself a fighter.  Is this the kind of golf course where you can make a big push, or do you need some help from the top?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Well, it's definitely not an easy track.  It's just about being patient out there.  You're going to make bogeys but it's all a matter of taking the birdie chances like when you get one at No. 18 there.  Just focus on hitting the fairways and giving yourself some looks at birdie.  Leaving it below the hole out here is definitely key.   
 Q.  What happened at the last?  
LEXI THOMPSON: I hit a great drive there.  I had 168 front and 180 to the pin, a little into the wind.  I figured if I hit a three-quarter 6-iron it would be a good club.  Looked good the whole way.  I didn't realize it was that close.  It hit about a few inches just behind the hole.  Then had a downhill left-to-righter, so stroked it well.   
 Q.  How long was your putt?  
LEXI THOMPSON: I would say it was about 25 feet.   
 Q.  As you look at the sky, are you glad you had an early tee time today and?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I'm very happy.  Looking at that sky -- but I think we got lucky because it was actually supposed to rain this morning and kind of got pushed off.  And we finished just on the bubble yesterday before they blew that horn.  We got lucky with the weather today but hopefully it will hold off for the people in the afternoon.   
 Q.  You were at Merit Club, this, Kemper Lakes.  What about the LPGA and Chicagoland?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I think it's amazing.  This golf course is absolutely incredible.  It's in great shape for us.  I think we should have more tournaments here in Chicago.  It brings a very big fan base and there's so many great tracks here.  Hopefully continue to get more and more events here.   
 Q.  Have you played any other places?  
LEXI THOMPSON: No, just the ones you named.  I've heard of a lot of them.   
 Q.  Would you care to mention --  
LEXI THOMPSON: Any of them, any of them I'm looking forward to playing.  I haven't played a lot of the well-known golf courses besides the ones we get to play.  I'm looking forward to hopefully be here more in Chicago.   
 Q.  The crowd was really behind you it seemed like.  Talk about that.  What does it mean to have the crowd?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, it means the world to me.  I love my fans and especially to see the little kids out here, that always means a lot.  They look up to us.  That means the world to us.  The more fans out here, the better for the game, supporting me or supporting Inbee or Lydia, that's all we want.  We want to see more people out here cheering us on.   
 Q.  Have you gained more fans since the way you handled the four-shot penalty?  
LEXI THOMPSON: I would definitely say yes, unfortunately; something like that had to happen.  I've grown such a huge fan base after that happened.  It means the world to me just to see the support that they have shown.   
 Q.  Because people -- how do you explain the more fandom there?  What do people say about why they are more into it now?  
LEXI THOMPSON: I think just really just how I handled it I guess.  You know, I don't know -- and the way I fought over the last six holes; the way I played and didn't give up.  I think that's what people enjoy the most.  Just seeing the determination after all that happened and seeing how I finished it off.   
 Q.  You're 4-under on the par 5s so far through two rounds.  Talk about your confidence this week being able to overpower Olympia Fields and carrying drives over bunkers.  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, the length off the tee definitely helps on a few holes out there because a few of the bunkers are about 250,255 cary, and some of those holes are actually a little bit downwind.  So I can carry them and get a shorter club in.   
Really it's just all placement out here.  You want a shot from the fairway into these greens.  Today they were a little softer with the rain yesterday, so it played a little easier just getting it closer.  But it's all about taking advantage of the birdie holes out here.   
 Q.  You're driving the ball well.  What's the difference between yesterday and today?  Yesterday was more of a grind?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yesterday I felt like I played 36 holes.  It was so much of a grind.  I don't really know.  I just felt a little bit out of it yesterday.  My tempo was off and I was just kind of steering it around the golf course.  Today I picked very small targets and just free-swung it and ended up working out.  I hit it a lot better today and only scored one better.  So that's golf.   
 Q.  Have you ever gotten to do anything fun in Chicago?  Have you ever been a tourist downtown for any stretch of time?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Not really.  I mean, for International Crown, we got to go to a baseball game but that was honestly about it.  We're so busy during the weeks with our rounds and training after, before, and with media and everything.  So it's tough.  But just being here is great.  Try to find the most time to do fun stuff, as well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT