KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 19, 2017
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Great bogey-free day for you.  How do you feel?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I feel great.  Struck it very well yesterday and continued to do that into today.
It was more of a level day.  Yesterday was very slow start; today was just consistently made a few birdies here and there, and hopefully continue that on the weekend.
Q. How did it feel after the weather delay?  I know conditions seemed to change a bit.
LEXI THOMPSON: 30-minute delay always stalls you a bit.  Wasn't too loose on the first iron shot that I hit, but, you know, it was a beautiful day out.  Not much wind.  Hopefully we get some good weather this weekend.
Q. From where we stand, looks like you're playing awesome.  How do you feel yourself?
LEXI THOMPSON: Thank you.  Yeah, I feel great with where my game is at.  I am just trying to keep my thoughts very simple, focus on doing my routine and picking small targets out and committing to my shots.
If I do that, my game is in a good spot.
Q. You have a three-stroke heading into the weekend.  Thoughts on that?
LEXI THOMPSON: I'm not really worried about other players.  We all just try to focus on our own game and try to do our best out there.  That's all we can do.  Control our games and our attitudes and see where it takes us.
Q. The group that you were in today, how much more did that push you playing with some of the top players in the game right now?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, well, playing with Ariya and Gerina, they're such great ball-strikers and great putters and just overall very, very good games.
We all played very well today.  We were making birdies all over the place and draining putts from everywhere.
It's always good to feed off each other.
Q. You're hitting a ton of fairways and a ton of greens.  How much more command are you of the ball?  Seem to play well on the front both days.  Reason for that?
LEXI THOMPSON: You know, it's just a good golf course for me.  I get to hit a lot of drivers.  Actually, a lot of 3-woods out here as well.  I just love the shape of the golf course.
It's in perfect shape for us once again this year.  Probably best I've seen it.
Q. How does Kingsmill rank as far as fans?  You hear them cheering from the stands.  How does this course rank?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, it's always great to see.  This is one of my favorite tournaments to always come back to.  Not only the golf course, but the venue in general.  We get a lot of fans out here cheering us on, and that's what we want.
Hopefully continue to tournament more and more every year to come.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT