KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 18, 2017
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Congrats on a great round today.
LEXI THOMPSON: Thank you.
Q. How do you feel coming off the golf course?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, it feels good.  I played very well.  Had a slow front nine but gave myself some chances.
Then the second nine was pretty crazy.  I hit some great shots and rolled a few good putts, so definitely helps out my confidence.
Q. Was there a trigger that turned things around for you?  How did it happen?
LEXI THOMPSON: Well, I birdied No. 1, which was my 10th hole.  You know, I was hitting it well for my first nine holes.  Just didn't hit it too close.  I was struggling with my yardages a little bit.
I knew I was hitting it solid, so staying patient really helped.
Q. I asked Gerina if it helps her when one of her playing partners is doing so well.  Does it help you or do you block that out?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, it always helps to see the other players in your group play well as well.  She played great today, too.  She struck it very well and rolled a lot of great putts.
You know, it's something that we feed off each other with.
Q. Firm, fast, difficult golf course.  You've got to be pleased to be this many under par this early?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I definitely am.  I mean, I'm never going to complain with 6-under par.
I'm just trying to focus on my game and just trying to get it more consistent, more control of it.  It's been helping out a lot, and I'm in a good spot right now.
Q. I know this course has a bit of a reputation on the LPGA.  As far as the want-to-win scale, where does this course rank?
LEXI THOMPSON: I want to win every week.  One week isn't more than another.  It's always the same attitude:  I want to win.  Everybody does.
Q. But this place seems to fit you well.  Seems like you usually get off to a pretty good start here.
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, it's just a tournament that I love to come back to.  That always helps out, coming into tournament that you want to play well in and you always look forward to coming to this venue, it helps out with the positive attitude.
But I get to hit a lot drivers and 3-woods which helps out a lot.  It's a ball-striking golf course.
Q. With the international field so strong, do you feel the need to raise the flag for the U.S.?
LEXI THOMPSON: No, not really.  The LPGA is such a global tour.  It doesn't matter where you come from.  It's a matter of what you bring to the table.  You know, I love representing my country.  Any time I tee it up, even if it's not in a team event representing my country, I'm always representing the USA.
Q. Being atop the leaderboard heading into Friday, how does change your approach for round two?  Does it change your approach?
LEXI THOMPSON: No, it doesn't change my approach at all.  I've got to go into it with the same attitude I did today.  Focus on my game and my routine, and hopefully play like I did today and see where it goes.
Q. How was the sky dive?  And any plans to do it again?  If you win this week?
LEXI THOMPSON: (Laughter.)  No plans as of now, but it was an unbelievable experience.  Supporting the SEAL Legacy Foundation is my No. 1, and just the military in general.
But the only way I would jump out of a perfectly good plane is with a SEAL on my back.  There was nothing like it.  Words can't describe the feeling.  It was just like a feeling of freedom jumping out.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT