ANA INSPIRATION
April 2, 2017
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Obviously an emotional time.  You have polarized an entire sporting community in the last two hours.  A lot of people rooting for you that never would even watch golf.  What are your emotions on what happened in the last two hours?
LEXI THOMPSON: It's great to have the fan base that I do and they really got me through the whole round.  It's unfortunate what happened.  I did not mean that at all.  I didn't realize I did that.  I fought strong through the finish and it was great to see the fans behind me.
Q. 13 when you were told walking to that tee, how were you able to sum up -- whatever it takes to make birdie there.
LEXI THOMPSON: Just regroup myself.  My caddie helped me out tremendously.  We have a great relationship and he just said, stay with it.  You can still win and we can birdie this hole and I just tried to gather myself before I hit that tee shot.  Made a great putt there.  But it's all to the fans.  I mean, they helped me get through the rest of the round which helped a lot.
Q. Ten years from now, if you have to write a paragraph what you remember most from this week, anyway to predict what that might be?
LEXI THOMPSON: What I learned most?  I learned a lot about myself and how much fight I do have in me.  And I don't know, every day is a learning process, and I wasn't expecting what happened today but it is what it is.  It happens, and I'll learn from it and hopefully I'll do better.
Q. Mike Tirico said what you did on 13 and there on after defines what an athlete is.  I think a lot of people are proud of you.  How proud are you of yourself?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I am proud.  Just the way I played coming in.  You know, I am a very emotional person.  I fought strong and that's all I could do.
Q. Can you just sum up that for me, everything you just went through?
LEXI THOMPSON: You know, I played amazing today.  Probably the best golf I played all week.  Wasn't expecting that on whatever hole that was.  I did not intentionally do that.  So to the officials, or whatever called in, that was not my purpose.  I didn't even realize I did that.  But you know what, I fought hard coming in, and I didn't give up.  I knew I could still win.  But I mean, so many players played great, so congrats to So Yeon.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT