ANA INSPIRATION
March 30, 2017
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How did it go for you today?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, it went pretty well.  I wasn't hitting it my best, but I made a few birdies where I needed to and took advantage of a few good breaks.  Got some bad lies out there in the rough, but it was overall a very steady round.
Q. What part of your game was the strongest out there today?
LEXI THOMPSON: I would say my irons were pretty good today.  Overall they were pretty solid.  I hit a few good shots in there and a few nice chips, too, which on No. 9 there I got up-and-down for birdie, so I hit a nice flop shot out of the bunker and I went for it.
Q. How will you prepare for tomorrow?
LEXI THOMPSON: Just get a little practice in later today.  I know it's supposed to be pretty windy this afternoon, but just do my same practice routine like this morning but a little later.  I get to sleep in a little bit more.
Q. How good did it feel to see that one roll in on 18?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, it's always nice to end on birdie there.  It really trickled down to the front edge.  I struggled a bit on the greens today; I had 33 putts.  But you know, I was stroking it well, just the greens were a little bit slower today.  I think they were anticipating a little bit more wind this afternoon, so they didn't make them as fast.
Q. Were you pretty thankful the weather throughout was pretty good?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, the weather was perfect this morning.  Right now it was probably the most wind, which is probably about 5 to 7.  I know it's supposed to get up to about 25 this afternoon, so I'm pretty thankful I'm not in the afternoon.  But you never know with weather.  It could be nice this afternoon.
Q. Is this exactly the first day you wanted getting out here, getting the feel of the course again?  Is it right where you want to be?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, definitely.  3-under the first day of a major always puts you in a good position, and we'll just take it one shot at a time tomorrow and see where that puts me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT