OLYMPIC GAMES RIO 2016: GOLF
August 17, 2016
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Thoughts on your first round in the Olympics? 
LEXI THOMPSON: Great day out there. Couldn't have asked for any better weather, that's for sure. Hit it well. Had a few little sketchy holes that I didn't hit too well and I scrambled, so that's what golf is all about. 

Q. Is the wind playing much of a factor? 
LEXI THOMPSON: I would say it got a little bit windier towards the end of my round but nothing too crazy. Maybe seven miles per hour, seven yards of hurt or help. 

Q. That's tough if you get in the sandy stuff.
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, it's not the easiest. It's very soft sand and a lot of footprints that I got in. But if you hit it in there, it's not the best of tee shots. 

Q. Did you learn anything today about the course that maybe you didn't know or didn't get from the practice rounds? 
LEXI THOMPSON: I would say it played pretty similar to how it was in the practice rounds. Obviously different pin locations but a lot were pretty similar to what the guys had played a few of their days. 
So I learned a lot off that. My dad and I charted the greens a lot the last two days. We got a lot of break, so I think that definitely helped us out there. 

Q. Did you speak much to the American men's team? 
LEXI THOMPSON: Well, Matt was a little busy, so I didn't get to talk to him too much. Rickie and Bubba, definitely got a little insight from them, just on a few of the holes and how they are bouncing out and where not to leave yourself. They definitely helped. They gave us a few insights on a few of those holes, especially like No. 12 and 2. 

Q. How do you balanceplaying as an individual and being part of Team USA? 
LEXI THOMPSON: We played all together yesterday. We played a practice round together. But it's definitely different because you are here as a team representing your country but it's an individual format. If one of us doesn't win, we want the other one to win that's representing the U.S. 
We just wish all the best for each other. But yeah, it's just great to be here representing my country. There's no higher honour than that. 

Q. You haven't talked about a podium sweep? 
LEXI THOMPSON: No, honestly we just really focus on our own games. That's really all we can do. We are controlling ourselves and that's all we can do. 

Q. You're not staying in the village; are you missing that at all? 
LEXI THOMPSON: I haven't been there yet but I'm going this afternoon to check it out and maybe go see women's diving. I'm definitely going to an event tonight. I'm looking forward to going and check it out and see all the other athletes. 

Q. How much is your length an advantage on this course? 
LEXI THOMPSON: I would say it definitely helps on a few of those holes out there. Like No. 12, getting a shorter distance into that hole. But like I said, it's all like placement golf, because some of the greens, you want the best angle possible to the pin location, because every time you step it up on the tee, you have to look at where the pin is and where you want to leave yourself in the fairway. So yeah, it never hurts, but I'm just trying to keep it straight. 

Q. What about on 16? 
LEXI THOMPSON: I actually hit a 4‑iron off that tee and I had 50 yards. I hit a 3‑wood or hybrid, actually, in the practice round and it went through the green all the way down in the gully and almost in the sand. It's not really a hole worth going for. I'd rather have it pitch straight up the green.

Q. Did it feel different this morning, the nerves on the first tee? Did it feel different to anything you've ever done before?
LEXI THOMPSON: The nerves were there, that's for sure. But it is a whole different feeling, just stepping on that tee, saying that you're an Olympian golfer. There's nothing like that. But it was an adrenaline rush. Hopefully we'll get more and more people out on that first tee as the days go by. But it was an amazing feeling to have. 

Q. How much of your year has been building towards this? How much preparation has gone in? 
LEXI THOMPSON: I would say ever since I found that golf was back in the Olympics, I've just been prepping for that. That was my No. 1 goal, to be on this team. I've just been working really hard on my game trying to tighten everything up and work on the mental side of it, as well, because I know that's a big factor in golf. It's helped me out a lot, and obviously the physical training aspect of it, as well.

Q. So for this year, it's above the majors, for sure, for this year, anyway? 
LEXI THOMPSON: To me, yes. I think the Olympics is higher than any major. We have five majors a year, and we only have one Olympics every four years, and golf is back in it since 1904. I don't think there's a comparison to having a Gold Medal.

Q. Do you remember where you were when Kuchar walked off 18? Were you here practicing somewhere? 
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, we watched them finish and then getting the medals. We were all out here.

Q. What was that like to watch? 
LEXI THOMPSON: It was great. Just to see, because I mean, we know what they go through and how that feeling is. To win for your country, there's nothing like that. But to win a medal for your country, it's a big deal. We've worked extremely hard to be in this moment. 

Q. What was your favourite sport to watch?
LEXI THOMPSON: I would say I've watched the last two Olympics and probably swimming and gymnastics. Those are the two I always want. 

Q. Did you dabble in either one as a young child? 
LEXI THOMPSON: Oh, no. I can't swim for my life and I can barely to a cartwheel or somersault, whatever they do. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT