HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 22, 2017
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Happy to be joined in the media center here by Lexi Thompson, defending champion.   
Lexi, how does it feel to be back in Thailand?   
LEXI THOMPSON: Oh, it feels great to be back in Thailand of this is one of my favorite tournaments here, and the course is in amazing shape for us once again.   
The fans are great here.  I just had an amazing Pro-Am.  It was so much fun.  I'm really looking forward to this week once again.   
THE MODERATOR: What memories do you have from last year at the event?  Is there a moment that particularly sticks out to you?   
LEXI THOMPSON: Just the whole week I really enjoyed.  We had a lot of fans out here which is what we always want to see.  Definitely the last day sticks out in my mind.   
Maybe the putt at final hole for par, but still just getting a little fist pump and hearing the crowd cheer for me.  It was a great feeling.  They were always cheering me on between holes, and that's what we want.   
THE MODERATOR: What do you particularly like about this course and how does it suit your game?   
LEXI THOMPSON: I love this golf course.  I get to hit a lot of drivers.  Maybe two, three holes I don't hit driver on.   
I would say the greens are the challenging part of the golf course.  There are some runoffs and few ridges in these greens, and you want to leave yourself on the right side of the hole here.   
It's just a great layout.  I really enjoy playing here.   
THE MODERATOR: Runner-up finish in the first event of the season.  Took Australia off.  What did you work on from Bahamas till now?   
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I had a good start to the season.  Brittany Lincicome played amazing there.  Tried to beat her, but I played my best and that's all I can do.   
I just focus on the same things I worked on my off-season, which was keeping my ball striking the way it was; focusing on swinging 70%, 80%; making sure everything is in control.   
Then I putted for like two hours a day for the whole three weeks.  I worked hard.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions?   
 Q.  (Question regarding new swing coach.)  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, it's very difficult.  Yeah, I haven't had a coach for a few years now.  Before the Shark Shootout in December I decided I really needed to change my golf swing.  I was way too erratic the last half of the year of that season.  I brought Kevin Kirk down from Houston and worked with him for two, three days.   
Basically what I worked on in my golf swing is swing 70, 80%, because as everybody knows, I get on my tippy toes and I get sometimes trapped behind myself.   
I was hitting huge blocks with sometimes big hooks, so 70, 80% kept me more planted on the ground and everything a lot more in control.   
 Q.  Which putter have you got this week?  
LEXI THOMPSON: The same one that I've been putting with since International Crown.   
 Q.  Okay, you kept that one.  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, kept that one.   
 Q.  Eyes are open?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Eyes are open.  Eyes have been open.  I had to get over that.   
THE MODERATOR: What particularly do you like about being in Thailand and this event?   
LEXI THOMPSON: Well, I'm pretty used to the heat because I'm from Florida, so I think just being here, the whole atmosphere at this event.  Everybody is super nice here, the staff at the hotel, the staff here at the golf course.   
I think it's just a tournament that all of us players really look forward to and enjoy.   
The foot massages are amazing that we get in the hotel.  It's just a great week.   
THE MODERATOR: From an American perspective, an outsider's perspective, how have you seen this tournament and Thai golf grow in general over the years?   
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I've seen this tournament grow.  I believe this is my fifth or sixth year.  Just seeing the tournament grow, the amount of people we see coming out to watch is quite amazing.   
Just for Thai golf I think it's a very big tournament to help Thai golf grow in general.  Just a huge fan base we get out here.  I can't say enough because the fans are pretty unbelievable.   
 Q.  Do you play much with your brothers in the off-season?  What are they up to?  Are you beating them?  
LEXI THOMPSON: (Laughter.)  I did.  I got to play with them quite a bit, which was nice.  We don't get to do it very often during our seasons, so in the off-season we always get up first off 7:15, 7:30 there at Trump International.  We always go out there to play and play matches and everything.  Curtis is on Web.com; Nicholas is on PGA TOUR, but also playing Web.Com.  So they're doing good.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
LEXI THOMPSON: No.  I mean, occasionally here and there, but not on a regular basis.  I play two tees up at Trump, so...   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT