RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
July 27, 2016
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








COLIN CALLANDER: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen.  We have Lexi Thompson, the World No. 4 with us this morning.  Thank you for coming in.
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, pleased.
Q. You were tied 17th last year.  This is a very different golf course, isn't it?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, yesterday was the first day I got to play the golf course.  It's in spectacular shape for us.  But it's definitely different than regular British Open golf course that I've played.  Usually you see a lot of fescue and a lot of wind.  I'm sure it will get windy this weekend.  Yes, this golf course is more tree-lined and doglegged.  I like it.  It's a great set up.
Q. Just coming off of a huge victory last week, when you won the International Crown.  Take us through the past two days of basking in the victory.
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, last week was an amazing week.  Any time I can represent my country, it's always the highest honor.  But to be able to win with my team, it was an amazing feeling and I didn't even have to finish my last match, which is always nice.  It's been a crazy last few days of just the media that Sunday and then rushing to the airport to get to our delayed flights to get here.
We were you will very excited to come here this week and we definitely a lot of confidence coming off last week winning.
Q. I just returned from the course, is it a patient test or can you be aggressive here?
LEXI THOMPSON: It depends on the weather conditions, I think.  If it gets windy out here, it can play very tough.  I think I hit two or three drivers out on this golf course, a lot of 3-woods.  Because of the doglegs, I run out of run.  So I lay to play back and give myself a mid iron in.
I feel like if they tuck some of the pins, it will be pretty tough to get close to some of the pins.  So it's going to be more of like 20 or 30 footers, getting pars on some of the holes that you need them.  A few of the par-5s I can go for if I just get the first tee shot, obviously, in the fairway.
Q. Just assess the state of your game right now.  What are you doing well?  What are you working on?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I've just been working a lot on short game.  That's what I work on most in the offseason.  The mental side of the game, as well, just trying to stay positive out on the golf course.  I've just been trying to simplify things, not being technical with my golf swing.  Once I start thinking about a lot of things in my golf swing, it just gets out of control.  Just been trying to focus on doing my routine and breathing exercises before I hit a shot and being relaxed out there.  I think that's when I play my best golf.
Q. Your putter, you went from the cure putter, you tried the happy putter.  Just tell us about looking for a putter, what you are looking for.  Are you sticking with the one you have?
LEXI THOMPSON: I am.  Actually, in Chicago, I think that Tuesday I went to Bettinardi, their station there, and got fitted for a putter.  I'm using Bettinardi's putter now and I feel very comfortable with it.  I feel like I'm stroking it pretty well.  I'm going to stick with that and practice with that the next two weeks when I'm home and hopefully it will go well with me this week.
Q. Do you feel like you are a streaky putter or do you think it is an area that you can get better at?
LEXI THOMPSON: I feel like with golf every area of your game you can get better at.  For me, I feel like putting is definitely an area that I can get better at.  It's honestly the only part of my game I really practice very hard on.
But it's all confidence.  It all about getting the lines on the greens, getting breaks to the putts and being confident over it.  I feel like I feel a lot more comfortable with this putter and a lot more confident.  It's all a matter of practice and getting comfortable.
Q. It's an easier transition coming to a course like this than say a links or is it a bit different than what you are used to?
LEXI THOMPSON: It's definitely a little easier transition, just because this one is more like a States golf course, being tree-lined and I would say not as firm.  I was taking some pretty big divots out there.  It is kind of links style, British Open style.  It's something to get used to.  It's all about placement golf.  You just have to get it in the fairway and give yourself an iron shot at the green.
Q. In terms of the climate, that's obviously different than what you are used to?
LEXI THOMPSON: Being a Florida girl, I'm not used to the 50-degree weather and the rain and everything else.  That is what we expect coming over to the British.
Q. The area around here, it's slightly different than what you have exposed to, has there been a lot of talk about the quaint Englishness around here?
LEXI THOMPSON: I'm sorry, what is the question?
Q. What have you made of the quaint Englishness of the surrounding area?
LEXI THOMPSON: Just the area, sightseeing and stuff?
Q. It's such a contrast.
LEXI THOMPSON: Honestly, I haven't been able to go and see many things.  I've only been here a day.  It is beautiful here.  I always love coming over here.
Like I said, the course is in great shape.  Hopefully I will get time to go out and sightsee a bit.
Q. You were at a very formal barbecue?
LEXI THOMPSON: No.  I was here with my Pro-Am group.
Q. It was a bit different.
LEXI THOMPSON: I missed that.
Q. We haven't a lot of success at this event in the past.  What do you feel like has been the biggest challenge for you?
LEXI THOMPSON: I just feel like probably just the climate change and dealing with the wind, but I feel like -- like I said before, it's all placement golf.  I feel like I haven't quite got that down yet.  And the firmer ground, me taking big divots, it's a different change for me, so I always tinker with my swing to get used to the ground firmness.
But I don't know, I feel great about this week.  I really like this golf course.  It sets up well for my shot shape off the tee, as well.
Q. What do you do with your discarded putters?  Are they discarded boyfriends, you never want to look at them again?
LEXI THOMPSON: No, they are still hanging around.  No, they are just at home in like a collection.
Q. About your schedule, how do you feel coming into this week after such a stacked summer and how do you feel like you managed it, taking some weeks off?
LEXI THOMPSON: I've taken a lot of tournaments off this year.  Just because of the Olympics, it made our schedule a lot more compact.  With the amount of tournaments that we have on our schedule now, it's pretty unbelievable.  But that's honestly what we want.  We want to see added tournaments and everything.  I skipped a lot of events just trying to avoid getting tired for the really big ones like this week.  I only played last week and nothing before that.  So I had that week off.  Then I have two weeks off after this for the Olympics.  I'm pretty all spread out, just been making sure to get that week off in between big events.
COLIN CALLANDER: Thank you very much indeed.  Good luck this week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT