UL INTERNATIONAL CROWN
July 24, 2016
Cristie Kerr
Stacy Lewis
Gerina Piller
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Cristie, did you know that putt was to win the International Crown?
CRISTIE KERR: I did when Stacy told me.  It's so complicated trying to figure out all the points, I was like, just handle my match and we'll worry about it later.
Q. After being shut out the first day, very similar to two years ago, what was your mindset going into the second round and the last three days?
STACY LEWIS: We stuck to our game plan.  We knew not to change our pairings.  We knew that we were playing good golf, and when those pairings came out this morning, I liked the way we were positioned, and Gerina and I went out there getting points early was huge, and we got Kerr through, so we got a crown.
Q. Lexi, not your best day out there, but did you know what was going on with Gerina and Stacy winning their matches ahead of you?
LEXI THOMPSON: My caddie Benji let me know that they were all up, so that made me feel a lot better, but I just tried to stay in my match.  I still shot a few under, so Jodi played great today, and that's what I expected.  She's an amazing player.
Q. All four of you played in Germany.  Eerily similar to how you guys came back to win.  Gerina, can you explain this experience this week?
GERINA PILLER: You know, that was the first time we'd done that, so I think that helped a lot that we knew we could come back.  I am standing here with three amazing players, and it just happens that we were paired with our same partners from Solheim.  That was huge.  We knew we had a big task today, and we all went out there and did it.
Q. Cristie, being the leader of this team, what did you do --
CRISTIE KERR: Well, I'm the designated text messenger.
Q. You must have had some advice to rally your girls.  What was it?
CRISTIE KERR: I don't think I had any advice for these girls.  They can handle themselves quite well on the golf course.  I just told them to go out there and try to bring it today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT