RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
July 31, 2016
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How did you find it out there in the final round?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I had a strong finish out there.  Just struggled on the greens today.  I actually stroked it very well.  Just didn't read a lot of the putts right, and 35 putts definitely hurts the scorecard.   
 Q.  Looks as if there more bounce on the course and it was tough to get close to the flags.  
LEXI THOMPSON: Well, the pins were a lot more tucked today, I would definitely say.  And then as the week went on, they definitely got firmer, the greens.  It was tough to get it close but the course was in amazing shape for us, so we couldn't have asked for anything better.   
 Q.  You've had a lot of major stuffed into a short space of time, but you've got the excitement of the Olympics coming up.  How do you feel about that?  
LEXI THOMPSON: I'm very excited.  This was definitely a great tune up, having the British Open here but having two weeks off at home and I'm super excited to represent my country there in Rio.  It's nothing like representing your country; it's the highest honor.  Going there, wearing my country's colours, and it's going to be amazing.   
 Q.  You had a win last week for America, so maybe another one on the cards?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yes, that would be amazing.  Really looking forward to it.   
 Q.  Level par, final round, 8-under total.  Tell me a little about the round today.  
LEXI THOMPSON: I hit it really well once again.  I had 35 putts and I actually rolled it really well.  Just didn't make anything.  Couldn't read a putt.  But overall, stroked it well, so I'm not too upset with it.   
 Q.  Is it just miss-reading slopes or pace?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I had two lag putts that I 3-putted; that one pin was just impossible, so I don't really blame that on me.  Yeah, it was just misreading, over reading putts I think.   
 Q.  Did you think the course got harder as the week went on; the setup was more difficult, pin positions?  
LEXI THOMPSON: I thought pins were very difficult today and then the greens were a little bit firmer.  So it was definitely more difficult to get it close today I thought.  But I think pins overall today were tough, which is what we expect on Sunday.   
 Q.  Another Top-10 in a major, so you can still get a good showing fro you.  Is there anything you learnt from this week?  
LEXI THOMPSON: It is a good finish.  I got eighth, I think as of now, and I'm just taking positives from it.  I hit it really well this week, and I rolled it very well, especially the first two days.  But just didn't make anything today.  Positives today going into the Olympics in two weeks.   
 Q.  Your next stop is the Olympics.  Is there anything else you can take from this week to get you into that?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Just a good finish.  Just the way I committed to a lot of my lines out there and committed to doing my routine on every shot.  That's really all I focused on.  I don't know, I was just happy with the way I hit it out there.  I was a lot more solid this week than the way I've been hitting it.   
 Q.  The score that's going to win this event, 15-, 16-under, did you think that was out there during the week or is that amazing play?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Coming into the week, if it was good weather, I was going to say 3- or 4-under was doable each day.  I definitely saw it being out there.   It just all depends on weather conditions here.  You don't know what you're going to get.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT