KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 22, 2016
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Pretty aggressive with the birdie putt.  I guess you had to be?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I was just trying to get it up there close.  It actually ended up being a little quicker than I thought, but I hit a great putt.  I almost thought it was in for a second.
Q. Take us through the eagle on 7.
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah.  I hit a great drive there.  I had 204 front, and then 217 -- no, 221 pin.  I hit my hybrid, and landed about seven to nine feet, and went to about -- actually landed shorter than that, but went to about 12 feet, and made the putt.
Q. Back-to-back bogeys on the back nine; way to bounce back.
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah.
Q. Can you take us through that stretch and how critical that was to get back on track?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, made two birdies.  I made a good par save on No. 14, I believe.  Got up-and-down with the pitch shot there.  And then 15, I hit a great 5-iron to the front fringe and two-putted for birdie, and then I hit it to about 15 feet on the next hole with a pitching wedge, and it was a pretty funny putt, but it sat on the lip for a little bit.  But that was definitely critical to get those two birdies.
Q. How would you sum up your time in general?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, it was good.  I can't complain with 10-under.  I played really well.  There's still some things in my game -- I felt like my swing was a little off this week, just a little out of control, but I worked with it and just tried to stick with it this week.
Q. Can you tell me a little bit about the group of volunteers here that you've grown especially fond of, the group of women?
LEXI THOMPSON: My grannies?
Q. Yeah.
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, it's a great group of ladies.  They've followed me around for years now, ever since I turned professional, and I've gotten to know them really well, go out to dinner with them, and they're just amazing supporters and just people in general.  I'm just lucky enough to have fans like that.
Q. They're local here?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I call them my Virginia grannies.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT