UL INTERNATIONAL CROWN
July 22, 2016
Stacy Lewis
Gerina Piller
Cristie Kerr
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
KRAIG KANN: Team USA is here after a three-point day against Thailand.  Let's get some overall thoughts on the importance of three points on the day.  Let's start with you, Lexi.   
LEXI THOMPSON: Well, it's very important.  Every point matters.  Coming off yesterday and not getting a point yesterday, it was important to come in today with a positive attitude and come in strong like we did, and we pulled it off.   
KRAIG KANN: Cristie, heck of a match for you and Lexi today.  I could sense just in watching you two specifically walk onto the tee that you were pretty pumped up today.   
CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, and --   
STACY LEWIS: That's every day, I think.   
CRISTIE KERR: I love golf.  I've always loved golf.  I'm a little bit of a golf geek, actually.  I watch golf when I'm not playing golf.   
GERINA PILLER: We do, too, but we don't admit it.   
CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, okay, cool.  But I'm used to getting made fun of.  It's fun.  I forgot the question.   
KRAIG KANN: The question was the importance of a big day for Team USA.   
CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, we knew we had to not lose today, and we got three out of four points.  That was really huge.  With a little bit more luck, the second match that was still out there would have got two points, as well.  I mean, they hit so many good putts that just burned the edge, Stacy lipped out a chip on the 17th hole.  We did what we had to do today as a team.   
KRAIG KANN: Gerina and Stacy, you guys have had what seems like a pretty darned good couple of days and you ended up with a halve today.  I know you were up in the match and things turned at 17, but I want to get some thoughts on your play today.   
GERINA PILLER: I think we're playing great golf.  I can't recall one hole that either one of us has been out of the hole.  You know, that's all you can really ask for.  We're making lots of birdies, making putts.  It's just one of those things where as cliché as it sounds, you just have to stay patient with it and keep doing what you're doing.  It's bound to produce results.   
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, I mean, I played great yesterday and didn't have my best stuff today, but found a way to kind of grind it out, especially there on the back nine, hit some good shots, and these putts just don't seem to want to go in.  I've hit some really good ones over the last two days.  With the law of averages of it all, they have to start going in eventually.  I think if you had asked us yesterday if we got three points today, we'd be pretty happy, but yet I think we're a little bit disappointed with our match.  So we're still got some work to do tomorrow, but I think as a team we're moving in the right direction.   
 Q.  Was there a conversation at dinner last night about maybe changing up the pairings, or was that even discussed?  
CRISTIE KERR: (Shaking head.)   
 Q.  Why?  
STACY LEWIS: I mean, we had so much success at Solheim Cup, and I just think we played so much together that why switch it up?  It was never discussed.   
GERINA PILLER: If it ain't broke, don't fix it.   
 Q.  Cristie, we were kind of listening to the TV interview in here and I may have this wrong so correct me if I'm wrong, but did you text some sort of Yoda-like message?  
CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, it was just to try to be funny and loosen up the team.  It wasn't, hey, I'm the captain of the team and I'm sending everybody a message.  No, it was just kind of like we were searching funny Yoda sayings, and it was like, it was a funny saying.   
 Q.  What did you send them?  
CRISTIE KERR: Just try not do, you must, because sometimes we tried so hard, and just tried to keep it a little more simple.   
 Q.  Stacy, the putt on 18, did you think that was going in?  
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, it was on the line that I wanted.  I think if it was just a touch slower, six inches slower, it probably goes in.  But I thought it was perfect.   
 Q.  Stacy, you guys were in probably a similar situation last year, although I think you swept on Saturday.  The second time through this format, how do you go into tomorrow, a day like tomorrow?  What's the approach?  
STACY LEWIS: It's being aggressive.  That's kind of something I told myself today when our match got all squared up.  It was like, we need to quit aiming away from pins and start going at the flag.  With two people, like she said, neither one of us have been out of the hole.  We need to play aggressive tomorrow and we've got to get four points, and I think we'll be right where we need to be.   
KRAIG KANN: If you look at the overall pool, England has five points.  I'm sure you all know the story about Mel playing by herself today.  Japan has 4.  Thailand with the United States, 3, so you obviously see the importance of the three points that you have.  As tight as this was last year, Gerina, I know you weren't a part of it, but this is probably right where everybody expected this bracket would be, this pool would be.  Your thoughts on just trying now to get into Sunday?   
GERINA PILLER: I think you've just got to stick with the process, and that's making birdies.  You go out there and you take care of your birdies and make some putts, and the rest will take care of itself.  For me for tomorrow, I'm going to have the same routine, same everything.  I feel like we played really well, and I know Lexi and Kerr played really well today.  I don't see any need to change or do anything special for tomorrow.   
KRAIG KANN: Cristie, last year you were a part of that playoff on Saturday night.  What do you take from that perhaps going into tomorrow to maybe make sure you're not even in that playoff?   
CRISTIE KERR: Well, I think we have a much better understanding of the format and the points needed to even make it to Sunday.  I think we need to at least make three points to guarantee a playoff spot or something like that, and we know what we have to do.  You know, it's a hard format, and when you make it to Sunday, then there become a lot more points available in the singles.  That's what we've got to do.  We've got to make it to Sunday.   
KRAIG KANN: Stacy, odds on Cristie sending another text message, and what might it say this time?   
STACY LEWIS: Well, there will 100 percent be another text message, but who knows.  She's awesome, though.  She's our motivator.  She's great.   
CRISTIE KERR: Thanks for saving me there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT