HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 27, 2016
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Your going to the Olympics was a good goal for you.  You had a great chance of going as a sprinter.  Great run there on 18.
LEXI THOMPSON: Oh, thanks, I didn't expect it to roll down that ridge there.  Yeah, it was unexpected.
Q. What a wonderful round of golf.  How much did you enjoy being out there today?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, it was a good day out there, very solid.  I just made sure I had fun out there and stayed positive.  I missed a putt on the first hole which got me down a little bit, but I tried to stay positive going into the next hole and fire at pins like I did the first day.
Q. How aggressive did you have played today, because the pins could be in devilish positions?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, there are some really tough pins out there and huge slopes on these greens, so you have to play smart sometimes.  Especially number 16 and that par-3 is a tough one, but I play aggressive.  I like to just fire at pins and just be confident.
Q. We so enjoyed watching you.  You have a whole legion of fans out there this afternoon.  Everybody wants a selfie or photo with you.  You're going to be here until midnight signing autographs.
LEXI THOMPSON: Probably, but it's a good problem to have.  I love my fan base, and it gets bigger and bigger here in Thailand.
Q. It's a great start for 2016 for you.
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, thank you.  So far so good.  I worked a lot in the off-season to improve on my physical and mental side of the game, so I'm looking forward to this year.
Q. Here with Lexi Thompson, 8 under 64 today to go along with the first round.  Tell us about your day today.
LEXI THOMPSON: It was a great day out there today.  The weather was perfect, so couldn't have asked for anything better.  I just tried to focus on doing my routine and played like I did the first day which was aggressive and fire at pins and relax.
Q. Your iron plays today were magnificent.
LEXI THOMPSON: Thank you very much.  It's just all a matter of commitment for me, aiming at the pins and making sure I do my routine to get the shot I want to hit.
Q. It seemed to be a little bit of a slug for everybody today.  What was the difference today?
LEXI THOMPSON: I don't really know, honestly.  I think coming off a low round on the first day it was hard to kind of top.  But I had the same attitude going into yesterday, I just didn't fire at many pins like I did today.
Q. Nine birdies today, just one bogey that came at the 16.  Very difficult hole due to pin position?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, it's a very tough location.  The par-3 just flat out is a tough par-3.  I was hitting 4-iron into that back pin, but up on that huge slope, it's not the easiest to bounce up there.  But it's a tough hole so, it's a good one to have.
Q. You wrapped it up in style with a birdie at the 18?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, ran up to that green and marked my golf ball to make sure it didn't roll back down that ridge.  So yeah, a good putt there, so very happy with the ending.
Q. You have a four shot lead going into the final round.  What is your game plan tomorrow?
LEXI THOMPSON: Tomorrow, same game plan as today.  Go into it with a positive attitude, just focus on my game, do my routine, see my shots and commit to them.  That's all I can do.
Q. What about those three in a row?  Was that just catching fire?
LEXI THOMPSON: The three?
Q. On the front nine, 5, 6 and 7.
LEXI THOMPSON: Oh, yeah, on five I hit a gap wedge to about six feet, made the putt, and then next hole I hit my lob wedge to about four feet, made the putt.  They had to move the tee up to number 7, so I had gone for it with a 4-iron, hit it on the front fringe and had 25 feet and just two-putted.
Q. And then back nine, you kind of just caught fire in that middle range.  Were you just in the zone, smiling?  Looked like you were having a lot of fun.
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I think it's all a matter of me getting comfortable on the golf course and just having fun with my caddie Benji in between shots and just keeping myself relaxed.  I know where my game's at right now.  But I also know there are a lot of great players out there, so I have to focus on myself.
Q. Can you give me 13, 15, how long those were?
LEXI THOMPSON: 13 was about 20 feet, 15 was about 12, 15 feet, and then 18 was 15.
Q. In those mid-range, longish putts, those are the ones you said once they start falling things will come together.  Do you think those have been the key?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I think today a huge key was my putting.  I made a lot of good putts today.  Even some for up-and-downs there on 8 and 9, which definitely helped out.  But the 15-footers are always nice to make.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT