HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 24, 2016
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: I'd like to welcome in Rolex Rankings No. 4 Lexi Thompson into the interview room.  Welcome back to Thailand.  You had a big week the other week, 21st birthday.  I know that sounds old to you but very young to all of us.  How was the birthday?  How was the celebration?  Give us a little background on what you did.
LEXI THOMPSON: Well, 21 in the States is a big birthday.  You can legally drink in the States.  I just had a few days down in South Beach, Miami.  First night was with family and friends and then second night was just my friends and I, so it was a good time.
THE MODERATOR: Red Bull threw you a party?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, Red Bull threw me my 21st birthday party and they went all out.  It was awesome.
THE MODERATOR: They do not go small.
LEXI THOMPSON: They don't mess around, that's for sure.
THE MODERATOR: I want to talk about just age in general, and I know this is kind of the question you get all the time, but now that you're 21 and you have the Brookes, the Lydias, you're always the youngest everything, and now the baton has kind of been passed.  Did you think that was going to take longer or did you think that was going to be your tag line forever, and can you believe that you're not always the youngest now?
LEXI THOMPSON: I definitely didn't think I was going to have those titles forever.  Records are made to be broken.  It's very cool to see how much the game is getting younger and younger with Lydia and Brooke, and there's girls behind them I'm sure that have a tremendous amount of talent, as well, and will be out here sooner than later.
It's great to see just the game of golf growing like that.
THE MODERATOR: Here in Thailand, you've played here a couple of years, some good results.  Everyone says it's a bomber's course.  Thoughts on the course, what are the keys to succeeding here?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I definitely hit a good amount of drivers on this golf course.  I think there's only two holes that I don't.  It's definitely an advantage to get it as close to the green as possible, but the greens are pretty tricky.  They have some ridges in the greens, so I think it's important to keep it in the fairway because the rough is up pretty thick, but the second shots are also very important, to leave yourself in the right areas on the greens and play the slopes.
THE MODERATOR: Good start to the season so far.  To your standards, how have you assessed it?  I know it's only two events in.  What are your thoughts on your performance so far and where your game is?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, so far my first two events I think I got like a ninth and a 17th or something like that, but I was very happy with the way I struck it in those two tournaments, and with my attitude on the golf course, so just needed a few more putts to drop to get my higher finishes, but overall I had a lot of positives to take from those two events, and coming into Thailand this week, this is one of my favorite courses and coming here.  So I'm excited to get this week started.
THE MODERATOR: I asked a couple of the other players and this is the 10th anniversary for this event.  It's been around for a while and it's pretty much helped grow golf in Thailand.  How have you seen this event grow in terms of galleries or how it treats the players?  What is your perspective on that?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I always look forward to coming back to Thailand, not only playing in front of the crowds but the course is always in amazing shape for us.  The hospitality back at the hotel, the golf course, I mean, they treat us amazing.  That's what we want at our tournaments.  It's great to see how much this tournament has grown over the years, and it's definitely one of our favorites to come back to.
Q. Are you doing a lot of the training still to improve your distance?
LEXI THOMPSON: I always think there's room for improvement.  You can always get longer.  But I just make sure I do the right exercises in the gym, always try to make myself stronger physically and mentally, but really am just working on straight back there, not really too worried about how far the ball is going.
Q. How far are you driving it?
LEXI THOMPSON: I would say I'm carrying it about 250, and then depending on roll-out, it all depends.
THE MODERATOR: Not bad.  I want to talk about the list of winners here.  It's a very -- a couple of the past champions, it favors some very good names, Suzann, Lorena, Inbee.  Why do you think that is?  Is it because this course is challenging?  Why is there such a list of esteemed champions?
LEXI THOMPSON: I don't really think this course is challenging.  There's a few holes out here that are risk-reward that you can take advantage with length or going for par-5s.  But you just have to hit it straight out here, and I think that's key because the rough is always pretty thick.  Just keep it in the fairway and then the greens are rolling really fast, too, so as long as you get your putts started on line, you know they're going to roll pure.
THE MODERATOR: Any thoughts coming into this week?  Any specific goals or short-sighted goals?  Obviously winning is there, but anything that you were working on last week that you're trying to bring over?
LEXI THOMPSON: Well, winning is always the number one goal going into every event, but I'm just going to go into this week with a positive attitude, focus on doing my routine on every shot, visualize and commit to each and every shot, and then if I hit a bad shot, from there you just have to move on and take it as it goes.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT