HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 25, 2016
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Two eagles, that's great.  
LEXI THOMPSON: Thank you, yeah.  Two eagles definitely helps out the scorecard.  We couldn't have asked for better conditions, weather-wise and golf course, so just happy to be out here.   
 Q.  A lot of the players are saying this is the best they've ever seen the golf course.  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I definitely agree, probably the best I've ever seen the greens rolling.  These greens are unbelievably fast and they're so pure, so you just get a good stroke going, get the ball rolling, and it's been great.   
 Q.  Another key is not to get past the flag too far?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, above the hole is not usually very good on this golf course, especially on No. 18 there.  But yeah, there's a lot of fast putts you've got to stay away from.   
 Q.  You did have a chance for the course record on the last, just missed out.  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I didn't even know what the course record was, but I was just trying to fire at each pin, so I just played aggressive the whole day, tried to commit to every shot, do my routine and just be positive out there.   
 Q.  No American player has ever won this event.  
LEXI THOMPSON: I didn't know that, either.  I'm just out here playing.  We'll see how the next three days go, just take it shot by shot.   
 Q.  Did you hit many drivers out there today?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I hit basically driver on every hole but maybe two holes there, so I love hitting my driver on every hole, and I'm actually using the new Cobra driver, the new King Cobra, so it's working out pretty well so far.   
 Q.  I saw you hitting a few holes and the color is pretty good.  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, it's a beautiful driver, so that definitely helps to look at it.   
 Q.  8-under par, what a great round today.  
LEXI THOMPSON: Thank you.   
 Q.  How do you feel about it?  
LEXI THOMPSON: I feel great.  I think I was just very confident out there.  I committed to all my shots, just aiming at pins and focused on doing my routine, staying relaxed, and I think that's what helped me out the most.   
 Q.  You played with a Thai player today.  What did you think about her?  
LEXI THOMPSON: She's a great player.  It was pretty impressive to watch.  I've never played with her before, but I've heard a lot of great things about her game.  But I was probably most amazed with her touch around the greens.  She's a very great chipper, just amazing touch around the greens.   
 Q.  What's your plan for tomorrow?  
LEXI THOMPSON: My goal tomorrow is same game plan as today.  Going into tomorrow with a positive attitude, focus on doing my routine and committing to my shot.   
 Q.  Have you ever had two eagles on the front nine going out?  
LEXI THOMPSON: No.   
 Q.  So first time?  
LEXI THOMPSON: That might have been the first time two eagles in one round that I know of.   
 Q.  That had to be pretty much the optimal start.  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, especially getting the first one on the first hole.  That was definitely a good start.  I chipped in on the other one, so definitely helped set the front nine.   
 Q.  How long was the first putt?  
LEXI THOMPSON: The first putt was about six feet.   
 Q.  When did you start with the new driver?  
LEXI THOMPSON: This week.   
 Q.  Was that a big decision, easy decision?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Well, I've been trying to work into it for probably the last few months, and just trying to find a shaft that works for me, and finally found something I'm very comfortable with.   
 Q.  What's the shaft, dimensions, loft?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Well, it's a 9-degree driver, Fujikura shaft, extra stiff.   
 Q.  Was it blue?  
LEXI THOMPSON: It is blue, but the driver is black.   
 Q.  Happy with the putter?  I know you said you've been working on getting the putts to roll.  Obviously the greens are in very good condition here.  Good setup for that?  Feel good over the putts?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, if you stroke the ball well out here, you know it's going to roll very pure.  I mean, the greens don't have any bumps in them or anything, and they're very fast.  But yeah, that's something I've been working on a lot.  I still left a few out there, but that's golf.   
 Q.  You would be the first American winner; what would that mean?  Obviously the list of winners here is really strong, a lot of big names.  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, it's obviously three days away, but just to be a part of the past champions, those big names, would be a huge honor, and just to be the first American to win a tournament like this, it's one of my favorites, so it would be very special.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT