LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 17, 2015
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Overall thoughts on your day, one back of Lydia, same way you entered the day?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I didn't move.  I missed a few -- about five- to six-footers that I needed to make, but that happens.  I hit a lot of good putts, but they were just off by one or two balls with the read.
Q. You have to feel good with the momentum heading into tomorrow with the birdie at the last.
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, definitely.  That always helps ending with a birdie going into the final day but going into the last day with the same positive attitude as I did with the first three days.
Q. Do you have a number in mind that you know you need to hit with Lydia in front of you?
LEXI THOMPSON: I don't really have a number.  I just know I need to make birdies, focus on myself and control my game.  That's all I can do and Lydia is playing great and she's going to make birdies, we all know that.  But it's not just her; everybody on top of the leaderboard I have to watch out for.
Q. Seems like this could be a final pairing for a lot of years to come.
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, it could.  That would be nice.  I've been paired up with Lydia so much and it's great to play with her.  She has such a great attitude on the golf course and obviously an amazing game.
Q. What's clicking this week for you?  I know last week you were a little disappointed but this week you were really hitting it well?
LEXI THOMPSON: This golf course is a lot different than last week's.  Last week's, I hit a lot of irons off tees.  I don't hit too much drivers.  This golf course, I hit driver on every hole, basically, besides maybe two iron holes.
I think just overall, hitting it better and trusting my lines and my golf swing.
Q. Have you hit it this well since you won in the desert?
LEXI THOMPSON: I think I probably hit it better there.   I mean, I'm hitting it pretty well here.  But I don't know, it's tough to compete with how I hit it there.  But I'm definitely very confident with my game right now.
Q. Control with the driver seems to be really good right now?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, the first day, it was bad.  But no, I went back to simple thoughts, controlled swing, and good posture.  Simple stuff and it has helped me out a lot.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT