LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 16, 2015
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just two back, have to feel pretty good about that considering there was a 62 out there.
LEXI THOMPSON: That was pretty crazy to watch.  Yeah, I feel pretty good with the way I played today.  It's crazy because I hit it a lot worse today and only scored one different, but that's golf for you.
I'm happy with how I was out there with my attitude and my game.
Q. Overall, it seems like the scores are a little higher today than they were yesterday.  Why is that?  Was it different?
LEXI THOMPSON: Well, there might have been a little more wind, not too much, but I think it was tougher pins.  There were a few that were tucked on some ridges, and that were just hard to get to.  I think there's going to be even harder ones tomorrow.
Q. You were kind of the youngest, the phenom coming up? Everyone was amazed by your game at such a young age.  Is it even amazing to you to see what Lydia is doing right now?  She's in the lead and you're two back.
LEXI THOMPSON: It is amazing to see.  I played with Lydia a lot on the LPGA Tour, and even since she was younger in the Australian Masters and Australian Open, and I knew she was going to be a great talent coming up the first time I ever played with her.  Just goes to show, she has an overall very strong game, not many weakness, great ball-striker, kind of sneaky long and putts it and chips it like God.
Q. Is it different when you're chasing her on the weekend, knowing that she's probably not going to give up a lot of shots to you, rather than maybe chasing someone who is inexperienced in the lead?
LEXI THOMPSON: You know, every time you have to go up against any top player out here, Inbee, Lydia, Stacy, you know you have to bring your A Game.  You know you have to top them with birdies and make more birdies when they make pars.  They are not going to make mistakes so you just have to keep on making birdies on them.
Q. What would it take for you to feel like this is a success for you?  I heard you say would you give it a 6 out of 10 right now.
LEXI THOMPSON: It kind of more like a 7.  It's tough because I had a few bad tournaments, but overall, I've had a lot of consistent finishes, which I'm very happy with overall.  In my off-season, that was my No. 1 goal, was play consistent golf and get the wins when they came.
I have four more tournaments left after this, or three, and I go into every tournament wanting to win.  But some good finishes.  I'm playing in Naples where I'm going to have all my family there supporting me, so I'm really looking forward to it.
Q. Seems like your game has really turned the last three months as far as being really, really strong.  What changed?  Did something change?  Anything you were working on or anything?
LEXI THOMPSON: I think really just working on the mental side of the game.  I've worked with John Kenny in South Florida in January, February and took me awhile to kick into my game and get used to being positive out on the golf course.  It's a huge part of it.  Golf is like so mental, and I needed to realize that.  He's helped me out a lot and I think that has helped me out on the golf course in just trusting myself.
Q. Is it trying to stay more positive out there?  It's easy to get negative in golf and it's easy to get mad.
LEXI THOMPSON: It is.  I hit some bad shots yesterday and I caught myself getting negative, but it's going to happen.  You just have to keep on focusing on the positive shots and the good shots that you hit, and keep on replaying those in your head.
Q. Has that helped your confidence going into the next shots after that?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, it has.  I made one bogey today on 10 and I was like, all right, don't get mad.  Just hit a good drive on the next hole and move on.
And you know, I made a few pars.  I hit a few bad shots here and there and I just tried to stay positive and know I could recover.
Q. I was going to say, is that kind of a process where you still have to kind of fight it in the sense that it's a process going forward where you just have to keep working on it?
LEXI THOMPSON: It's a hard process.  I've always been one to be upset if I hit a bad shot.  But to always get even with it, I always got upset but I was always determined to do that on the next shot.  That's how I grew up, with two older brothers and trying to fight against that.
But it is a process but it's a good one to have.
Q. Up to No. 5 in the world now, I know you said openly that you want to be No. 1 in the world.  Is that still the goal?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I think that's everybody's goal.  But yeah, I mean, it's a long way to that.  You've got Inbee, Lydia and Stacy up there and they are going to be tough ones to pass.  I'm just going to focus on myself and control my game and see where that goes.
Q. Lydia is making it tough on you, isn't she?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, she makes it tough on everybody, but there's so many great players out here, you just have to focus on yourself and just try to do your best.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT