DIAMOND RESORTS TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 16, 2020
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. (Indiscernible) good playing. I agree. Good ball striking. You seem to be in midseason form.
LEXI THOMPSON: I didn't take much rest in the off-season. Really seemed like I only had about two weeks off. I took one week fully off, not even touching a club, but that was about it. I slowly got back into it, and I was grinding away.
Q. Do you refresh your goals and aspirations?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I do. Like Olympics being this year, that's my number one goal. But I go into every tournament wanting to win. That's the drive I've always had. I just want to play consistent golf and keep trying to improve on everything on and off the golf course.
Q. You've been out here for a number of years. Do you make changes so that you peak at the right time?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I think overall in the off-season work, it's a lot of short game work for me, but this off-season was actually a lot of ball striking as well, trying to work on those little swing changes I worked on towards the end going into CME were big changes for me. I think that's making my ball striking a little bit more consistent now, which will be good for my future.
Q. Lexi, a solid 5 under opening round at the Diamond Resorts Tournament of Champions. How good does it feel to get back in competition mode?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, it feels good. It's a little different of a tournament playing with celebrities, but it's just an amazing feeling coming back to 2020. This is a great event. It's a lot of fun. To start off with a nice 5 under start, it's a good start to the season, just hopefully keep it going.
Q. Is there something when you can compete with other professional athletes that play at the highest level, just like you do, is there something you pick their brains about when you're out there with them?
LEXI THOMPSON: Honestly, I just try to respect them and enjoy their presence. This is such a great event for that. I don't really want to pick their brain because they get that all the time for sure. I want them to go out there and enjoy themselves. I think that's what this tournament is all about. We want to take it seriously, but at the same time, I want to enjoy being around some of the best athletes that have been in the game or in their sport.
Q. What is it about this course that sets up to your strengths?
LEXI THOMPSON: Overall on this golf course, I can hit a lot of drivers and 3 woods. I can play it pretty aggressively. A good amount of the par 5s, I can reach and go for in two, so I take advantage of that. It's just in great shape. That's what we really look forward to in every tournament we go into.
Q. You put a lot of work in in the off-season. What was working well today that you felt like was a direct reflection of that hard work?
LEXI THOMPSON: I think overall having my ball striking being very consistent today. I hit it very solid, committed to my lines a lot out there, and I made some good putts. So a lot of positives to take from today. Just hope I keep it going.
Q. Did Larry pick your brain at all?
LEXI THOMPSON: He asked me like one or two questions, but really not much of anything. We just really had fun out there, enjoying ourselves and saying good shots and just feeding off of each other.
Q. What did you think of his game?
LEXI THOMPSON: I was impressed. He hit a lot of irons off the tee, but he had an amazing short game. I was very impressed. He had great touch around the greens and rolled it very well.
Q. Any theme to this year for you? Anything new to the way you want to approach things?
LEXI THOMPSON: Really I'm just going into this year trying not to get too down on myself and my game. I've put in the work in my off weeks, in the off-season, and I'm just going to go into every tournament knowing I put in the work and just letting my game show that I put in the practice. If I struggle and have a bad day, I'm not going to let it get to me. I'm just going to try to have more of a positive outlook on life.
Q. At the end of last year, you talked about your swing and some of your footwork. Have you just built on that? Have you changed anything about that?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I'm doing the same footwork change that I worked on towards the end of last year, just trying to patent it and get it more ingrained in my golf swing. It's been working pretty well. I feel very confident with it. It's just a matter of repetition and keep going with it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT