THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 10, 2015
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Good afternoon.  I'd like to welcome Lexi Thompson into the interview room.  Lexi, pretty strong opening round there.  You have to be pretty happy with how you began this tournament?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I'm definitely pretty happy with my first round.  I had a good stretch on my first nine on the back nine there and made a few birdies and an eagle, so helped out with the scorecard.  But, yeah, overall very exciting ride.
Q. You mentioned your first nine.  Could you take us through that stretch on 12 through 15?
LEXI THOMPSON: Uh-huh.  On number 12 I hit my lob wedge to about five feet and made the birdie putt.  Next hole, par-5 I hit a 7-iron to about 20, 25 feet and made the putt.  Then I hit a 5-iron to about two or three feet on the next hole, par-3, and made the putt.  Then the next hole I went for the green with a 3-iron, came up a little short and chipped that to about a foot.
Q. So when you are dialed in like that especially in the opening of a major championship, how good does that feel and how much confidence do you carry into the second round?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I mean, it feels great to have a stretch of holes like that and hitting good golf shots off the tee or into the hole or making a few good putts out there it's important in a major championship.  But you just have to take one shot at a time and not get ahead of yourself because, I mean, shots can get away from you out here.  If you hit it in the rough, the rough's pretty thick, so you know you have to make some good pars if you miss the fairway.
Q. You've been one of the hottest golfers out here on Tour beginning with your win four tournaments ago at Meijer; is there anything in particular you've been working on that's led to this?
LEXI THOMPSON: I would say I've just been working on consistency in my game, just trying to get more consistent off the tee.  I've been working on short game a lot, which is chipping and putting.  But the big thing is the mental side of the game.  I've been working with John Denney down in Florida and just trying to stay positive going into shots, doing my routine and focusing on my breathing walking into the shot.  So I think that's helped.
Q. Finally with Solheim coming up next week, what was your mindset coming into this tournament, being the final major and then the Solheim Cup?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, well these are two really big weeks, very important.  Obviously, Solheim Cup was my No. 1 goal to be on that team to represent my country, so I'm very happy to be going to Germany next week.  But you have to focus on this week being the last major here at the Evian Championship, and this is always a great tournament to come back to.  I have great memories here and the fans are amazing, so I always look forward to coming here.
Q. Can you sort of detail what you mean when you say walking into the shot?
LEXI THOMPSON: It's more just my preshot routine.  I'll take my few practice swings and visualize my golf shot, where I want it to start, where I want it to end up.  I'm more of a feel player.  I'm not very technical, so I love to see my golf shots going into pins or how my putts roll, so.
Q. So it's not about hitting it then?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I take my two practice swings behind the ball, and then I take my last look walking into the shot and seeing the shot I want to hit and commit to.
Q. You obviously had a great stretch on your front nine.  Were there any really nice par saves or anything like that on your back nine that you could detail?
LEXI THOMPSON: Number 4 I had a good par save.  I hit it in the left rough and tried to hit an 8-iron out and it ended up just feeding over about 40 yards short of the green.  I hit it to about 7, 8 feet and made the putt.  I made another good par save on number 7, the par-5.  Ended up trying to go for the green, came up short in a bunker that was about 40 yards away and chipped it short and had about 15-footer for par.
Q. In golf you're much older than your years.  Is there anything in life where you're much younger?
LEXI THOMPSON: Everything besides golf (laughing).  I don't really know.  I mean, I'm a very laid back, goofy person once you get to know me.  It's just golf, I've matured at a young age.  I've always played in older age divisions as a young kid, and growing up with two older brothers has made me mature at a lot younger age.  But off the golf course, I'm just a regular person.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT