U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 2015
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What happened on No. 15 on the second shot?LEXI THOMPSON: Well, I got unfortunate, actually hit a good drive and got it stuck on the right side of the fairway, and as you know the overhanging tree, I had to cut it around it.  But it's pretty hard because that fairway slopes right-to-left.  I just got a little steep on it, it started right.  So it went in the tree and came straight down.Q. And then on No. 16 putt, what happened on that putt?LEXI THOMPSON: I missed it.Q. Did you read it incorrectly?LEXI THOMPSON: I didn't hit it hard enough.  It was a big breaking putt.  I only had three feet and it broke at least a ball or two outside the hole, which I mean there's a lot of putts you can get out here.Q. How do you feel about your chances on Sunday?LEXI THOMPSON: Well, it's hard to say now, because the leaders are just now teeing off.  I think if I go out tomorrow and hit it like I did today and get a few more putts to drop, I think I have a pretty good chance of, if not winning, getting a good top 5 finish.Q. How does this year feel compared to not only past seasons but past Opens?LEXI THOMPSON: I feel like -- coming into this tournament I felt pretty confident.  I've had a few good finishes, leading up to this, especially at KPMG.  I've overall felt very confident with my game, just been working a lot on the mental side of the game, just trying to stay positive in between shots, and just finding positives with each golf shot, even if I hit a bad one. I think that's a big part of golf.  I feel really good how my season is going so far.Q. You won the U.S. Girls Junior in 2008, so obviously you're already a USGA champion and you know what to expect at USGA championships.  Coming in this week, do you have to have a different mindset than say the previous week on the LPGA Tour?LEXI THOMPSON: Well, USGA championships are always played difficult.  The course is played fairly long and the rough is up deep.  You see these greens out here, they're very undulating.  Even though they're not the quickest greens, you can get 3- to 4-footers that break a cup or so.  So you get some really hard putts out here, which is what majors are all about, tough greens and thick rough.Q. So a player who plays well at a USGA championship typically does what better than everybody?LEXI THOMPSON: Probably putting and then off the tee, I think.  Getting in the fairway in USGA events is key because usually the rough is up pretty thick.Q. Was there a point in the round today where you felt like you had a chance to go deep?  Did you kind of have -- were you close today?LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I definitely did.  I started off with a birdie, which is always a big confidence booster.  But I birdied holes 3 and 4 and that's when I was 3-under through 4. So I felt really good with how I was hitting it, with how my range session went and how I was putting.  I felt pretty confident going into today's round.  But definitely getting a birdie on the first hole is a definite confidence booster which helped me.Q. 3-under after 4, is there a point that you lose momentum?  How does that sort of feel, are you thinking about, wow, maybe I've got a chance to really do it here?LEXI THOMPSON: Well, when I was 3-under through 4 and then I got it to 4-under through 6.  I was trying -- focusing on each shot, same routine, not getting too quick with it and just stay within each golf shot, and not get ahead of myself. I made a few birdies on the back, which was fortunate.  But it is what it is, it's golf.Q. You felt like you were successful in going one shot at a time and staying in the routine?LEXI THOMPSON: I felt I didn't get ahead of myself.  I did my routine on every shot.  I focused on the mental preparation I've been working on with my routine and in between shots just is what it is.Q. How is the course playing today compared to the first two rounds?LEXI THOMPSON: There's not too much wind today, so I would say it's playing easy on that aspect.  But some of the pins you have to play away from because they're tucked.  But the greens are still pretty receptive, a good amount of them.  But a low score is definitely out there.Q. Do you feel like you're back in the tournament after your round today?LEXI THOMPSON: I need to keep the pedal down even more.  I feel like I can give it a good run tomorrow.Q. So you can play aggressive tomorrow?LEXI THOMPSON: I went out today playing aggressive, I aimed at pins, focused on my target and just played aggressive, swung freely.  And usually that's when I play my best.  Hopefully do the same thing tomorrow.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT