KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 11, 2015
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You have to be very happy with that start?LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, definitely.  It was a very consistent day.  I mean, there's still a few holes I left out there that I should have taken advantage of.  Definitely a lot of positives from today that I'm going to be taking into the next three days.Q. Are you surprised how stacked the leaderboard is towards the top; that three was going to be the low number for now?LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I knew basically a few under would be leading.  I was expecting about four or five.  Usually after the first day somebody goes super low.  There's so many holes you can take advantage of and birdie like No. 10 and 9 but there's a lot of par holes, too.  Got to even it out.Q. What does your yardage book look like this week with all the notes and different things you put in it, as compared to normal weeks or other majors?LEXI THOMPSON: Well, you have to ask my caddie because I don't keep a yardage book.  I don't look at one.Q. How do you mentally put yourself through this week?LEXI THOMPSON: Compared to other weeks?  I would say really just major championships are different from others, just because you have to think about where to place the ball a lot more because the greens are usually a lot more undulated.  You don't want to short-side yourself because the greens are usually very fast. I would say just going into the greens, we usually have mapped out where we want to hit it to those pins to where they are that day.Q. When you come to a course for the first time, is it easier to do it on a course that's old like this where you don't have to worry about kind of any gimmicks where it's kind of tried and true, as opposed to a newer course that is still kind of settling in?LEXI THOMPSON: I'm not too sure.  I don't really notice a difference with newer courses or older courses.  All I know is that this one has a lot of history behind it and it is a huge honor to be playing here at Westchester Country Club.  It's an amazing layout and the course is in perfect shape for us.  The greens are fast and they are going to get faster.  I'm looking forward to the rest of the week.Q. Anything surprise you today course-wise?  Did it dry out a little bit?LEXI THOMPSON: I would say, yeah, it definitely dried out a little bit.  A few of my tee shots went further than expected on a few of the holes.  There were some tough pins, too, that I wasn't expecting for the first day.  But that's what major championships are like, tough pin positions.Q. Did you see anything different in terms of The PGA of America setup with pins or anything like that?LEXI THOMPSON: Well, yeah, I think they definitely had a say in pin placements and making them a little tougher for us.  I think that's great.  It challenges us a little bit more and makes us pull a little bit more shots off.Q. Who is with you this week?  I feel like your posse is deep.LEXI THOMPSON: I do, I have my whole family here, manager.Q. Are you staying all together?LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, we rented a house for the week.  We have them all packed in there.Q. When is the last time you did that?LEXI THOMPSON: ANA.  Major weeks we get a house.Q. Does that relax you, get to go home and hang out?LEXI THOMPSON: It's a lot more relaxing.  My mom cooks for us every night.  We sit on the couch, relax and watch TV.  Makes me feel like I'm at home and I don't get that very often, so it's nice.Q. What's your mom's best dish?LEXI THOMPSON: She's good.  We had spaghetti and meatballs last night, and that was pretty amazing, I'm not going to lie.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT