RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 29, 2015
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  COLIN CALLANDER: Good afternoon again. We have Lexi Thompson, last week's winner on the LPGA Tour. That Must feel good coming into this event I would have thought, winning last week.   
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, definitely is, coming off last week, a win gave me a lot of confidence going into this week, especially being the British Women's Open and being a major week.  
COLIN CALLANDER: You've had a few chances to see the golf course now. What are your views on Turnberry?   
LEXI THOMPSON: Oh, I think it's an amazing golf course. I got to play in the Pro‑Am yesterday and played 18 today, got all the tee shots down. It wasn't too windy the last two days. So I don't know what the weather has in store for us the next few days but hopefully we'll get some sun. But I'm ready for all types of weather coming here.  
COLIN CALLANDER: Does it present any particular challenge, Turnberry, in your opinion?   
LEXI THOMPSON: You know, I don't think it's been prevailing wind the last two days supposedly. So a lot of the holes are playing extremely long. I mean, I've had some 5‑ and 4‑irons into a few of those par 4s. I can reach a few of the par 5s which is nice. But if the wind is the total opposite, it can play a lot different.   
   
 Q. Since 2013, your majors, have been steady and consistent. Is there anything special you do in major weeks?   
LEXI THOMPSON: I would just say it's all about preparation, mentally, physically and just how you practice around the golf course. Usually major weeks, it's a lot more practise for tee shots, getting lines off the tees and a lot more short weeks. Usually major weeks play a lot tougher with the rough and the conditions of the golf course. You have to practise short game a lot and get the breaks of the greens down.  
   
 Q. Birkdale played quite tough and you had the odd problem, but if you had actually played the first and second level par last year, you would have finished fifth. Is that a little hint of your real results in this event don't reflect how much you like links golf?   
LEXI THOMPSON: Are you talking about my finish here last year?   
   
 Q. Last year, you played the first and second about 12‑over‑‑  
LEXI THOMPSON: Oh, that's not a good memory (laughing).   
Obviously I had a rough start. I think that was the second day I had a rough start on No. 1. I was extremely proud just of the way I finished that round. I think I finished 3‑ or 4‑under to finish one inside the cut line.   
So I knew after that first hole, that second day, I didn't know really what to expect with the day to come. I just tried to stay in a positive mind‑set and just fire at some of those pins because I knew I needed to make birdies with that start.   
   
 Q. Specifically about links golf, have you played it better than your results would indicate the last few years?  
LEXI THOMPSON: This is my fourth British Open. I'm still trying to get used to it. It's a lot different golf than just Florida golf. Florida golf, you get the number to the pin and then you land it there, and it stops. Here you can bomb shots and obviously it gets really windy, so you can hit a lot different shots and have it bump up and some shots it actually stops. There's a lot more thought process going into every shot.   
It's pretty cool to watch. You can see so many different trick shots and cool shots for length. I'm still trying to get used to it, but I feel like I've gotten better each year.   
   
 Q. I'm afraid Matt's question got us interested because we had forgotten what you had done at the first last year. Could you give us a cheerful rendition of what happened?   
LEXI THOMPSON: Of last year? Yeah, last year, I made a 10 on the first hole. It was not a good start. Yeah, I hit two bad tee shots and I'm not really sure‑‑ yeah, I just hit two bad tee shots in a row, got me in trouble and it was a hard starting hole.   
I would say out of all golf courses I've played, that has to be the hardest starting hole I've ever played at Royal Birkdale. It was just extremely long and it was a tough wind, too.   
   
 Q. You did a commercial shoot with Usain Bolt, if I remember correctly, and you flew on a plane with him; is that right?   
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, last year, to Italy.   
   
 Q. Did you guys discuss the Olympics, and if so, what impression did you get about being potentially an Olympic athlete?   
LEXI THOMPSON: We actually didn't talk anything about Olympics. He was super laid back. I think we talked about TV shows and movies. We didn't talk about anything too serious. It was quite an honor to meet him and hang out with him a few hours.   
Yeah, with the Olympics coming up, that is one of my all‑time goals. Just team events in general, to represent my country, it's one of my goals going into every year, it's the highest honor, putting red, white and blue on and representing your country. So that would be a dream come true to be on the Olympic Team.   
COLIN CALLANDER: Thank you very much. Good luck this week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT