VOLUNTEERS OF AMERICA NORTH TEXAS SHOOTOUT PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 3, 2015
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Just feel like you kind of ran out of holes there?
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, basically.   I mean I left a lot of putts out there for birdies.   I missed a few short putts. 
But yeah, I mean overall I struck it really well.   I hit a lot of good iron shots, so I'm going to take positives out of the week.   I'm happy with the finish, obviously.   Not a win, but Inbee played great, so.

Q.   I was going to say, you gotta be feeling pretty good about the way you finished this week, though?   Good, solid top five?
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, I'm very happy.   I struggled last week, but played a lot differently this week.   I hit it very well and I was making a few changes to my putting, so it's just changes I need to get used to and get comfortable over them.

Q.   Good to be back in contention, though?   Feel good again, like old hat?
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, it definitely is.   I was great to be in the final group today playing with Inbee. 
And you know, I'm very happy with the way I played, and the course is in great shape for us, so we got perfect weather.

Q.   Did you know it was going to take kind of a low round like Inbee took to win this, though, so such a crowded leaderboard?
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, it was funny because I think somebody asked me two days ago what I thought the winning score was going to be, and I was saying 14 or 15‑under, so I knew I had to shoot four or five under at least today.

Q.   How bad did you want that putt at 17 to put a little pressure on her heading into a reachable par‑5 for you at 18?
LEXI THOMPSON:   I definitely wanted that putt.   It didn't break as much as I thought it was, and I knew if I made that one and I could possibly eagle the last I would have a chance, but I got unlucky with the drive on the last hole.   It didn't really bounce right into the fairway for me.

Q.   Talk about putting, do you think that's just kind of the area where you feel like you're‑‑
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, it came down to putting this week.   I would say I definitely left a few out there.   I also made a lot of putts, too, a lot of the longer putts.   So it's kind of a give and take, but it's what I have to practice for the next week for sure, a lot of drills and just to get comfortable over them.

Q.   A lot of good tournaments coming up this summer, too.   A good time to start playing well?
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, exactly.   You know, this is definitely a big confidence booster with a lot of majors coming up, the KPMG coming up and just a lot of good tournaments basically, but this was one of my favorites all year, so I mean I love coming here and playing in front of the fans. 
But nothing but confident.

Q.   What kind of captain is Juli Inkster going to make?   Everyone talks about how competitive she is. 
LEXI THOMPSON:   Oh, she's going to be a great captain.   I got to play with her last week, and it's amazing, I think she could probably still play on the team, too. 
But she's amazing, not only how she plays, but just the person that she is.   She's always looking out for the players out here, and she's come up to me many of times and said if you ever need anything, come to me and I'll help you out. 
But she is so competitive and she knows what we go through, which is a great feeling, so I think she'll be a great captain for us.

Q.   How cool was Monday night for you?
LEXI THOMPSON:   It was amazing.   To have dinner with President Bush and Mrs. Bush, it was an honor.   I mean I didn't find out until the drive over.   It was quite the surprise for me, but it was amazing just to hear the stories that he had and how he gets through pressure situations.   It's cool to hear those stories.

Q.   And last question.   This crazy long line of fans.   How cool is this?   You always do such a great job of signing after and staying and talking to everyone.   Is that something that's been important to you and make sure you do every time?
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, it's huge.   The fans here are amazing.   There's always a lot of people out following us, but this line takes me about an hour to get through.   But it's great to see that the women's game is growing so much and getting these fans out here, and they took time out of their lives to come watch me, so it's a good way to gave back. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT