ANA INSPIRATION
March 30, 2021
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  THE MODERATOR:   Thank you inside the virtual media center here at the ANA Inspiration.
 Lexi, thank you for joining us here today.  How are you feeling.
 LEXI THOMPSON:   I feel great.  It's great to be back at the ANA Inspiration.  Brings back a lot of good memories just being here, and the course is definitely in the best shape I've ever seen it.  I'm just excited to start the week you have.
 THE MODERATOR:   You're coming off some pretty great momentum with a T-2 finish last week.  What was it about the Kia Classic that brought out some of the best in your game?
 LEXI THOMPSON:   That's golf course I don't really get to hit a lot of drivers on.  It's a lot more placement, and so a lot of 2-irons and 3-woods off the tees.
 But I played well.  I've been working extremely hard in my off-weeks, so just seeing that hard work pay off, that's what all of us athletes want to see, all of our hard work going to work.  It was just a great week.  We had good weather and that always helps.  It came together for me.
 THE MODERATOR:   With a couple off-weeks before the Kia Classic, what were some of the things you were working on?
 LEXI THOMPSON:   Everything.  My mental game.  My game in general.  But a lot of short game; I put a lot of work in on my chipping and putting, hours a day, and just really making sure my ball-striking is more consistent.  That's what I've been working on the most with it.
 Worked a few lessons with Martin Hall, so definitely helped out there.  I don't know, just keeping things simple but at the same time trying to improve on little things.
 THE MODERATOR:   Have you worked with Martin before?
 LEXI THOMPSON:   I haven't.  I started with him a few months ago.  So I've seen him two or three times now.
 THE MODERATOR:   Well, definitely the performances, we can see the difference there.
 LEXI THOMPSON:   Thank you.
 THE MODERATOR:   With that, this is the first major championship of the season and you have some really great memories here and it's the 50th anniversary.  What is it like as a past champion to visit some of those memories as we celebrate the 50th edition?
 LEXI THOMPSON:   It's incredible just to come back here to Mission Hills.  I have a lot of great memories here, but I also played in this event when I was an amateur, as well.  So I go way back but it's a special atmosphere.
 And unfortunately we don't have fans out here, but it's just very relaxing to come here.  We usually always have good weather.  Might get windy sometimes here and there, but it's just a blessing to be out here.  The golf course is in great shape and the history, tradition, it's kind of like the women's Masters for us it feels.
 THE MODERATOR:   You're not the only one to say that; Nelly said that.  What does it mean to you to continue with such great play leading into this week over the last couple years that you've been here?
 LEXI THOMPSON:   It's crazy to think that this is my 12th.  It's just great to be back.  I always have a smile on my face coming back driving in.  But bringing good play into it, I've been playing well.  But it's a new week.  So I'm just going to go into the week with a positive attitude knowing I've put in the work and doing my practice rounds and making sure I know everything about the golf course and get ready for Thursday.
 THE MODERATOR:   What do results like Kia do for your confidence?
 LEXI THOMPSON:   It does a lot for my confidence but I think anybody's in general, knowing that you've put in the hard work and dedication and see it pay off under the gun and under pressure everything, and it's just great to see and it just makes me want to work even harder to hopefully win and just see the results continue to improve.
 Q. This golf course was a lot different the last time you saw it in September, hotter and smokier.  It was also different grass and firmness.  Are you happy to be back to where it's supposed to be?
 LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, definitely am.  The golf course is just so healthy right now.  It was in great shape in September, don't get me wrong, but it's way more green, way more healthy.  It's definitely meant to be at this time of year, I believe.  We have great weather.  And this is probably the best I've seen the golf course shape-wise.  So I think we are all just looking forward to being out here this week.
 Q. In September they had to keep the greens a little softer because of the heat.  They are firming again this week.  Particularly on 18 without the wall there, is that going to be a decision shot for you in the middle of the 18th?
 LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, it will.  Depending obviously when they have the tee back, I won't be going for it, especially with this wind, with it being into.  But once they move the tee up, if I get into a good number, I hit 4-iron in today and I imagine that the tee was up and just placed the ball there and it stopped.  It has to be a really good number for me to go for it.
 Q. Did you aim at that wall last year or was it just in your way?
 LEXI THOMPSON:   Did I aim at what?
 Q. The wall last year on 18.
 LEXI THOMPSON:   No, I probably just pulled it.  I always just try to hit the green.  I wasn't trying to backstop it.
 I think the it's just an amazing finishing hole.  Unfortunately we don't have the fans basically on top of us on the green.  I think that's what I enjoy so much about it, not so much that it was like a backstop.  But just having the fans and feeling the excitement and energy from them, I absolutely love that.
 Q. And my last question, when you come here and there aren't any fans, what's the one thing you notice about it?  The cheering or rooting for you?
 LEXI THOMPSON:   When the fans are out here?  Yeah.  I mean, I'd definitely say that.  Even when I struggled on that, they were always behind me, always saying "keep it up."  They were just so positive.  You can just feel the energy off them and there's a ton of people out here supporting us and you can tell they are true golf fans.  Hopefully we will be back to that soon.
 Q. You're 49-under par over the last five years here 13, strokes better than the next -- your closest competitor.  I would imagine the way that you perform out here would translate to a win sooner than later given how you perform.  Wouldn't you agree?
 LEXI THOMPSON:   I would hope so.  Honestly all of us want to go in and try to win every tournament that we tee it up at.  But I'm just going to take it one shot at a time.  Focus on just having a good time out on the golf course.  I've been working hard on my mental game and being more relaxed out there, and hopefully that helps me out more than anything.
 I know I've put in the work physically on my game everything and so just letting it go and letting my true talent show is what I want.  You know, if that comes out to a win, great.  If not, I'm going to continue working.
 Q. How do you deal with a major championship pressure week now versus maybe earlier in your career?
 LEXI THOMPSON:   I would say earlier in my career, like when I didn't play as much as a full schedule, I think there's a little bit more pressure on the majors just because major championship, I wasn't playing too much, so there was a lot more pressure on that aspect of it.
 Into every tournament, I have the same mindset.  Of course I want to play well.  I want to win every time I tee it up, but majors, yeah, the golf course is a little bit more difficult and usually set up a little more difficult and requires more thought process, but same mindset.  So that's what I'm going into this week with.
 Q. Whenever you're playing a course and the weather is supposed to be hot and dry, how does your fitness and nutrition routine change?
 LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, that's a great question.  You know, I drink about a water every hole or two holes out here.  So I'm drinking a ton of water.  It's super important.  When I get my rounds going, I'll make sure to eat every two, three holes.  Doesn't really -- I do that normally but when it's super hot out, it's just drinking a ton of water.  Probably almost double the amount out here with how hot it going to be.
 THE MODERATOR:   As we begin to wrap it up, Lexi, you said it before but you have such special memories of this place and the work you've been putting in.  What would it mean for you to win a second time here at the an na inspiration.
 LEXI THOMPSON:   It would mean the world to me.  This place has so much history and tradition behind it, and jumping into Poppie's Pond is my favorite memory of my career, jumping in there with my family.  I hope to do it again sometime, and it's always my goal coming into this event.  I just absolutely love it.  Of course I want to win but everyone else does, and I just have to focus on my game and see where it takes me.
 THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, I think that will wrap it up here.  Thank you for joining us and good luck this week.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT