KIA CLASSIC
March 28, 2015
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. That coming on the heels of a frustrating day yesterday in which you hit the ball really well but couldn't buy a putt.   Is that just the nature of the game or did you make any kind of adjustment?
LEXI THOMPSON:   Well putting it was just hard luck yesterday.   I didn't have any putts roll in for me, but I struggled off the tee yesterday, too, so playing from the rough out here is not that easy because it's pretty healthy, but overall today was a pretty steady round, and definitely got a few more putts to drop.

Q.   Does it make it easier handling the pressure out here because you are looking forward to next week where you'll be defending champion?
LEXI THOMPSON:   This week is always an amazing tournament, the Kia, and this golf course is in great shape this year, the best I've ever seen it.   I always look forward to this week, and of course next week at the ANA Inspiration, definitely looking forward to that. 

Q.   One birdie yesterday, a ton more today.   What was the difference in just setting up the birdie opportunities? 
LEXI THOMPSON:   I think it was more just hitting the fairways.   I only hit three or four fairways yesterday, and today I definitely hit a lot more.   But the eagle helps on the scorecard to get a few things going.

Q.   Another hole‑out?   Take me through the eagle. 
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, definitely helps. 

Q.   What yardage did you have on the eagle?
LEXI THOMPSON:   I had 100 yards into the wind.   I hit a full gap wedge.   It landed about six or seven past and supposedly spun back in the hole.   It was on 13, and I couldn't see it. 

Q.   Did you hear the cheers?
LEXI THOMPSON:   Oh, yeah, I heard the cheers.   They said it was going pretty quickly because it was spinning hard because that green is pretty slanted.

Q.   Looked like your best putting day statistically on the card.   Did you feel that way?
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah.   You know, I still had 30 putts today, but that's been my main goal to improve my putting.   I definitely got a few more drop today.   It's really all about picking spots on these greens and just rolling it over that and just commit to it.

Q.   How much is mechanics for you and how much of it is mindset on the putting? 
LEXI THOMPSON:   I think golf in general is more mindset for me.   I'm not a very technical person or mechanical.   I really like to visualize my shot, visualize my putt and see where it's rolling.   So I think it's more just how I feel over the putt with confidence.

Q.   We talked the other day about all your changes in the putting, the tank, I think, right?
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah.

Q.   And then changing grip and going back and forth.   I wanted to ask you about the heavier or fatter putter grip.   What do you feel like that gives you?
LEXI THOMPSON:   Well, I used the skinnier grip before, and it just felt like it was a lot more handsy.   I was a lot more handsy on my putts, releasing it really hard and not really feeling my putts and rolling them, I was more hitting them.   But with the bigger grip now, it makes me just feel like it's less hands and I'm rolling my putts.   It feels a lot better.

Q.   How comfortable were you out there today?   It looked like one of those rounds where you just felt really, really good.   Was it like that?
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, I felt really comfortable.   I mean, I felt comfortable every day.   Yesterday was a little bit rushed of a day.   We were kind of behind the whole day.   But today it was fun.   I've been having a lot of fun with my caddie Benji on the bag and we've just been kind of relaxing between shots, and today I just committed to my lines, and that's all I saw. 

Q.   Going back to late last year, when did you last go into a Sunday feeling like you had a chance to‑‑ a really strong chance to win?
LEXI THOMPSON:   When was it?   It's pretty bad that I don't know.   I don't know when‑‑ it's been probably‑‑ I know the few tournaments after the Kraft last year, the ANA this year, I had a few good finishes and was in contention, but towards the end of the year I didn't have too many tournaments where I was close.   It feels good to be back to that closeness.   I mean, in the Bahamas this year I had a chance.   I came in seventh so I was up there.   But I feel good going into tomorrow.

Q.   Do you look at the leaderboard?   It's super stacked.   Does that change your mindset for tomorrow?   You usually have a pretty aggressive approach but do you think you've got to come out firing?
LEXI THOMPSON:   I didn't even look at the leaderboard today.   I knew I was creeping up there.   But I'm going to have the same strategy.   I've been playing this course pretty aggressive, hit a lot of drivers, 3‑wood here and there, and they moved a few tees up today that I could take advantage of.   But still the same mindset, going out, firing at pins.

Q.   What did you do at 16?
LEXI THOMPSON:   16, they made drivable.   I hit a hybrid, and it actually gusted back into the wind, and it stayed on the upslope, but then I chipped on to about six, seven feet, and made it.

Q.   Did you get guys the yardage on 13? 
LEXI THOMPSON:   It was 100 yards, and I hit my 52‑degree, landed about six or seven past and spun back.   I couldn't see it.   I went on the crowd's reaction.

Q.   Can you remember the last tournament where you had two hole‑out eagles from the fairway? 
LEXI THOMPSON:   I don't know if I've done it.   I don't know if I've done that. 

Q.   Pretty cool, isn't it?
LEXI THOMPSON:   It's a pretty amazing feeling.

Q.   It's one of those things where you've got a little bit of luck, and I think the other one spun back, too?
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, it did.   One bounced past and then spun back.   Yeah, you know, we're obviously aiming at those pins.   We're not hitting to hole out.   But it worked out.

Q.   Which club was this?
LEXI THOMPSON:   This was my 52‑degree, full 52‑degree. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT