HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 5, 2015
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How does it feel, it's not easy out there, it's tough conditions, and all of a sudden you have a hole‑in‑one.   Does it just put you in a whole different mind‑set?   
LEXI THOMPSON:   It definitely does.   It was extremely hot out there, not much wind.   The course is in great shape for us this week.   But I played pretty steady the whole day.   Didn't really get anything going until that hole but it's definitely a big confidence booster.   I was just waiting for a few birdies but the hole‑in‑one helped out a lot.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel like it was going in?   And we're just watching the vision of it now, but pretty exciting.   At what stage did you know it had gone in?   
LEXI THOMPSON:   When it rolled in.   I t was going on line the whole way.   I hit a low controlled 7‑iron from 150.   It was looking good the whole way, so I was just waiting for it to drop.   I let go of my club.   I don't even know what I did honestly.  
   
 Q.   Now this is not your first hole in one.   You've had five, and two in competition.   
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yes, I've had two in competition.   I had my other one in Ohio in the LPGA event.   So it was quite the experience.   I think I high‑fived everybody on that hole.   So I mean, there's no feeling like that.   Just spur of the moment, drop the club, do whatever, yell, who knows.  
   
 Q.   It's such a highlight, however, you have had a really good round of 69, so you're well and truly in the mix.   
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, like I said before, I played a pretty steady round.   Was just waiting for a few putts to drop.   Overall played pretty steady.   The hole‑in‑one helped me to get a few under overall.  
   
 Q.   I don't think there's anything steady about your golf, it's all‑or‑nothing and it's so exciting.   You get that driver really out there and you really don't care, do you.   
LEXI THOMPSON:   I mean, I definitely want to bomb it a lot on this golf course.   Probably on a few holes I shouldn't.   But take aggressive lines, and driver is the most comfortable club I have in my bag right now.   Just pick the line and commit to it and that's all I'm doing right now.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT