SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 11, 2014
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  LEXI THOMPSON:   It's so beautiful here.   I mean, just the sights overall on the golf course.   It's just a great place.   I enjoy coming back.   Doesn't matter if I'm golfing or not.  
   
 Q.   Hotel good?  
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, I mean, the hotel is great.   It's attached to a mall, so it's very convenient for us.  
   
 Q.   So you spend a lot money as well?  
LEXI THOMPSON:   Actually not too much of a shopper, but it's nice to be attached to a mall and be able to walk around.  
   
 Q.   It's great to have you here again.   
LEXI THOMPSON:   Thank.  
   
 Q.   Overall thoughts of the tournament so far.   I know you haven't played nearly as well as you want, but the eagle on 6, how big was that?   
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, it definitely was big.   It helps out with the Wounded Warrior program, too, donating to them.   That means a lot to me.  
I definitely haven't played up to my standards, but it's always great to come back here.   The course is in amazing shape.   The tournament has definitely improved even since last year with all the festivities that they have going on off the golf course.  
   
 Q.   And your L Magazine shoot, too.   It's big here in Malaysia.   It's all over the media center.   All over as you walk around the tournament.   How do you feel about it?   When were the pictures taken?   Do you feel good about it?  
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, I mean, I love the pictures, how they came out.   I didn't know I was going to be on L Malaysia, so it was quite a surprise at the pro‑am party when they announced it.  
It's very cool to see.   Quite honored to be on L Malaysia Magazine and GolfPunk.   But I did the photo shoot a few months ago and they just came out a few weeks ago.  
   
 Q.   You have a lot of fans as we walk around here.   A lot of people want pictures with you?   How does that make you feel to walk around knowing how loved you are?   
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, it makes me feel really great.   I've had some of the same few fans out watching me every day, which means a lot.   A lot of little girls, which is very cool that women's golf is growing and impacting little girls.  
It means a lot to me.   They're always rooting me on even if I'm struggling, so (indiscernible.)  
   
 Q.   Last question.   You're in all pink.   Breast Cancer Awareness Day.   Tell us a little bit about why you support it.   
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, it means a lot to me.   I've done a few Breast Cancer Awareness functions with Morgan Pressel's event, and I've donated a little bit to the foundation, and my mom is a five‑year survivor now.  
So, yeah, I wear pink every Saturday for that.   Dyed my hair pink, the bottoms pink, for this month.   It definitely means a lot to bring awareness to breast cancer, and hopefully it'll find a cure.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT