MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 19, 2014
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Run us through it.   5‑under.   What was different today?
LEXI THOMPSON:   I would say I just hit it a bit closer on some the holes and made a few putts out there. 
Overall I hit it a lot better.   I am working on some things in my golf swing.   It's trying to take the positives out of it.

Q.   How positive is the week before Crown?
LEXI THOMPSON:   It's very important.   I am really looking forward to next week representing my country. 
To get a little consist booster like this definitely helps.   Hopefully shoot another low one tomorrow.

Q.   What's the strategy going into tomorrow?   Gotta to be something low, right? 
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, definitely came into the week and said I'll play aggressive, aim at pins.   I know I have to make birdies out here.
So same thing tomorrow:   just trust my shots and aim at those pins.

Q.   How important is the golf fitness and strength conditioning program to your game?
LEXI THOMPSON:   It's very important.   I've really gotten into fitness over the last two or three years with my trainer. 
I love working out.   I feel a lot better about myself.   I can get through my rounds a lot better and not as tired.   I enjoy going to work out actually after my rounds, too.

Q.   Would you say this is now part of the future of the LPGA Tour, fitness?
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, I think fitness is getting a lot more important definitely on tour.   I think people are realizing that you need more endurance to get through these rounds. 
We have seven‑hour days out here, so you have to be essentially ready for it.

Q.   I wanted to talk to you about Ai's family.   One of her older brothers played in the Open; youngest brother is playing in the British Open this week.   Kind of similar to yours, right? 
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, I didn't know that actually.   I didn't know she had brothers. 
Yeah, that's quite an amazing story right there.   It's always nice to have people around you that play their sports, and especially in your family.   And growing up with two older brothers that played, I always had them to push me and go to for help.
That's always nice, and I'm sure she feels the same.

Q.   You hoping that one day your brothers will be like that, both played in majors?
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, that would be pretty amazing.   My other brother Curtis Thompson is turning pro this year and going to Q‑School, so I think it'll happen very soon. 

Q.   How much does that push you when you're a young kid coming up and you see them have success?
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, it pushes us a lot to have two older brothers‑‑ I don't know if hers or older or younger. 

Q.   Both older. 
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, to have two older brothers tat play, that pushes you to be better or to beat them or to be able to compete, try to stay I up with them.

Q.   Who has the best golf family in the world, you or hers?
LEXI THOMPSON:   Oh, I don't know.   I don't know her brothers, but it sounds like she's got a really good golf family.   She's an amazing player, so that's goo enough right there.

Q.   One of her brothers had two hole‑in‑ones in the same round on the PGA Tour.   Could you imagine?
LEXI THOMPSON:   No, I couldn't.   I think one of my brothers like had an eagle and a double eagle.   I've never one that before.   You can count me out for that.

Q.   How many hole‑in‑ones have you had?   I know you had one here last year.
LEXI THOMPSON:   I think I've had four.

Q.   How cool was going back to 14 after last year?
LEXI THOMPSON:   Oh, it was so cool.   Hit the same club every time but I've managed to not hit a very good shot.   We had the caddie race yesterday and it was actually me and Paula that raced.
It's so much fun.   Get so many fans around that green.   It's just a great atmosphere.

Q.   She got a head start on you yesterday, didn't she?
LEXI THOMPSON:   She did!   She snuck up on me.   She's fast.   I didn't think she was going to be that fast.   She was.   But she did sneak up on me.

Q.   Did you race today?
LEXI THOMPSON:   No.

Q.   Was the bear out there today?   There was a bear racing on 14 yesterday, dressed up as a bear racing players and caddies.
LEXI THOMPSON:   No.   No, I missed it.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT