KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 15, 2014
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   4‑under on your back side?
LEXI THOMPSON:   Uh‑huh, yep.

Q.   Was it just a matter of putting better on the back side?
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah.   I definitely made a few more putts on my second nine and hit a few better shots going into the second nine.
Definitely had my chances on the last few holes in the first nine.   Overall, I'll definitely take 4‑under.

Q.   Got to feel pretty good about the way this year is going.   Heading into the stretch run, if you will. 
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, I definitely feel really well about my game right now.   I've worked extremely hard in my off season, especially on my short game.   I put a lot of hours and hard work into it.   To see it paying off definitely helps my confidence out just coming into each day. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
LEXI THOMPSON:   It changes you mindset just more confidence going into each event or shots for that matter under pressure you know that you can pull off.
But doesn't change who I am individually.   I'm still the same person.   Just a little bit more confident, I guess, when I get to the golf course.

Q.   Have you been up to Pinehurst No. 2. 
LEXI THOMPSON:   I haven't, no.

Q.   Have you heard much about it or had a chance to play it before?
LEXI THOMPSON:   Well, I'm hoping that actually my brothers make it to the Open so I can go and watch them and feed off the guys a little bit, see how they play through their shots. 
All I've heard is there is pretty much no rough and it's dome greens.   So pretty much hit the green and you'll be good.

Q.   You played since you were 12, I think, so it's sort of old hat in some ways.   That tournament is the biggest tournament, but you have to be pretty confident going into it because you've played it so many times. 
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, I definitely am confident going into the Open week.   It does seem kind of weird that I'm only 19 and played in a good amount of them.
But I am going into it with the same mindset:   just another tournament; try to go out there and do my best and hopefully win. 
With a major you just have to stay mentally strong throughout every shot and every day. 

Q.   Do you feel rivalry among the American players? 
LEXI THOMPSON:   I think every player is just focusing on themselves and trying to do their best out here. 
I mean, we're playing a sport we love.   We're playing golf every day.   It can't get much better than that. 
No, we're just trying to beat the whole field.   There are so many top players in each event, and we know we have to bring our A+ game to won every week.

Q.   (Question regarding resurgence of American players.)
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, I mean, I think definitely a lot of the those top players, there is a few Americans up there, which is nice to see.
But the LPGA Tour is such a global tour.   It doesn't really matter where you're from.   It matters what you bring to the table.

Q.   The U.S. Open, has it always been a major goal of yours? 
LEXI THOMPSON:   Of course.   I mean, it's definitely my top goal coming into the year.   To win the U.S. Women's Open, being an American and winning the championship of the year, it's the highest honor. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT