TOTO JAPAN CLASSIC
November 6, 2019
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What have you been up to these past few weeks?
LEXI THOMPSON: Honestly, I’ve been practicing and training harder than I ever have in my life. I struggled my last few events and I knew a swing change that I needed to make. I’ve just been really working on it these last four weeks, and it’s changed dramatically in my swing. I feel good about it. It’s been hard work, but at the same time I’ve made sure to have that really relaxing down time which I needed.
Q. What have you adjusted with your swing?
LEXI THOMPSON: It’s just trying to get everything more in control. I’m not obviously jumping as much. That’s always going to be a part of my golf swing, but I’ve realized I need to tame it down to get more consistent with my golf swing and my shots. It’s not really - I’m thinking about not jumping as much, it’s kind of another move it’s hard to describe.
Q. Are you comfortable with the changes?
LEXI THOMPSON: I feel very confident with it. It’s the only thing I’m working on. It’s good to be over your shot feeling comfortable knowing that it’s a lot more consistent, a lot more solid and I know that I’ve put in the hard work so it’s good to be back here in Japan and put it to the test.
Q. What do you like about coming here to Japan?
LEXI THOMPSON: I just love coming here in general. The people are so nice here, the golf course is always in great shape for us and they just love their golf. I love playing in front of the fans here, I would say that’s my biggest excitement of coming here.
Q. Are you getting a preview of the excitement for the 2020 Tokyo Olympics?
LEXI THOMPSON: A lot of people are so excited to have the Olympics here in Japan, especially everybody here. I think it’s great for golf in general, I think it will be huge especially for the women’s side of the game. Like I said, I just love coming here in general. My number one goal next year is to be on that team and coming here to Tokyo to play.
Q. What are your expectations for this week?
LEXI THOMPSON: Obviously, wanting to win. That’s always my number one goal, but with how hard I’ve worked in the last four weeks, really just committing to what I’ve worked on and just going out there free swinging and just continue to work on that. Just let it go and just enjoy the experience of being here.
Q. How important is this week as a tune up for the CME Group Tour Championship?
LEXI THOMPSON: It’s very important. It’s important for me right now just with the swing changes I’ve made to have a little test run and put it under the gun and in competition, I think it’s very important. I have a week off after this, so it will be good for a tune up before Naples to see where my game is at and what I need to work on.
Q. As the defending champion, have you had the CME Group Tour Championship circled on your calendar this year?
LEXI THOMPSON: CME is one of the top tournaments for me. Not just because I won it last year, but I have an amazing support group being from South Florida. I get so many people out there to watch me. It’s just a great week, I’m always around my family that week and I think that just makes me feel very relaxed the whole week. I’m just looking forward to being able to drive to an event, bring Leo and just enjoy the whole week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT