KIA CLASSIC
March 30, 2014
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We're here with Lexi Thompson after a great finish there at Kia.   You gave a nice fist pump after that big birdie on 18.   What was going through your head? 
LEXI THOMPSON:   No.18 is a hard hole to begin with so you just try to get into the fairway and have a good shot to that pin. 
Once I saw the 20‑footer going up the hill, I told my caddie I was going to make it.   I just got up tight, I felt good over it.   I usually don't fist pump, but I was feeling the moment. 

Q.   It was a good smile, too.   So you have a good fist pump, good finish here.   What does that mean going into Kraft for you?
LEXI THOMPSON:   It means a lot for me.   I went into this week with a positive attitude, went out there and smiled and laughed with my caddie, just relaxed.   I think that's when my game shows the best.   I'm going to take a big confidence booster going into next week into a major.   I'm really looking forward to it. 

Q.   Did you have a number in mind that you thought you had to hit and did that number change as you went through the day?
LEXI THOMPSON:   I actually didn't think about a number going in.   I obviously knew I had to get to double‑digits.   I had to take one shot at a time and play the way I did the last three days.   Pretty solid.   The course is in great shape for us.   I tried to take one shot at a time, and when the birdies dropped, I just went for them. 

Q.   Do you wait around now to see what Anna does?
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, well, I do have to kind of wait around.   She went to 14‑under, I guess.   You never know, but Anna is a great player. 
I'm overall just very happy with the way I played no matter what happens.   Just really happy with it. 

Q.   International Crown teams will be set after this.   What does it feel like to represent your country playing in a team competition?
LEXI THOMPSON:   It means so much to me.   Anytime I can put on red, white and blue, go out there, play for my country, it's the highest honor you can have. 
I love team events.   Just representing my country, there's nothing like it.   Golf is such an individual sport, playing as a team for your country, it's always so amazing and the fans love it, so... 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT