KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 5, 2014
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  KELLY THESIER:   Good afternoon, everyone.   We'd like to welcome our other co‑leader here at the Kraft Nabisco Championship, Lexi Thompson, into the interview room.   Congratulations.   3‑under par round today, tied for the lead with Michelle Wie at 10‑under par.   Just take me through that day out there.   I know not the finish you wanted on 18, but overall a solid day.   
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, overall it was a pretty solid day.   I had a little slow start, I missed a few short putts for birdie, but not the ending I wanted.   But overall I played pretty solid just like the last few days.   I'm getting looks at birdies and just waiting for a few more to drop for me.  
   
 Q.   You've been putting yourself in contention it seems a lot recently.   Two wins at the end of last year.   It seems that you've been building up to this moment of being tied for the lead entering the final round of a major.   Do you feel like everything you've been going through has kind of prepared you for this moment?   
LEXI THOMPSON:   I think it definitely has.   Like I said, every tournament I go into is a learning experience.   Even if I play bad, I learn so much from it.   But recently I've been trying to have a little bit more fun out there, smile, joke around and be relaxed.   I think that's when my game comes out the most.   So hopefully it will be a good Sunday for me.   I'm looking forward to it.   
KELLY THESIER:   Michelle was just in here.   She said she's excited about being tied for the lead but also a little nervous about tomorrow.   What are your feelings like going into the final round of a major tied for the lead?   
LEXI THOMPSON:   I'm really excited I'm going into Sunday tied for the lead.   Obviously, you're going to be a little nervous.   I think if you're not nervous, you don't care.   But it's a good nervous.   This is what I've been waiting for and what I've worked my whole life for.   So I'm really looking forward to tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   25 putts yesterday, 31, I think today.   Was it anything different or did you feel like the putting was‑‑ you were putting as well today as you did yesterday they just didn't go in?   
LEXI THOMPSON:   I would say I had a few mis‑reads today.   I don't think I putted as well today and put as many good strokes on my putts.   But overall I had a lot of good looks at birdies today, so just do the same thing for tomorrow and go up to the putt confidently and just knock it in.  
   
 Q.   You and Se Ri and Michelle all held the lead at one point by yourselves.   Were you caught up in some of that?   Obviously, Michelle just playing in front of you and playing with Se Ri?   
LEXI THOMPSON:   I actually didn't really pay attention to it.   Every time I passed the leaderboard I looked the other way.   I want to go out there and play my own game and not worry about others.   Obviously, tomorrow I have to look a little bit at it because it's the final round.   But just go out there and play my own game, not worry about others.   I know I'm playing pretty well, but just go into it with a confident attitude.   
KELLY THESIER:   Lexi, I asked Michelle what it will be like playing with you in the final round tomorrow.   We talked about both long hitters, both kind of play exciting‑type golf.   What do you think that pairing is going to be like tomorrow?   
LEXI THOMPSON:   It's going to be a great pairing.   We bomb it off the tee and hit a lot of drivers usually.   So it will be exciting to watch.   I know Michelle pretty well and I've gotten to play with her quite a few times, so it will be a great Sunday to watch.   
KELLY THESIER:   Did you get to know her too?   You guys were teammates on the Solheim Cup team last year.   Did that help to get to know her even a little bit better?   I know everybody said they bond over that experience.   Did that allow you to get to know Michelle a little bit?   What would you say about her personality and what she's like off the golf course?   
LEXI THOMPSON:   The Solheim Cup definitely brings all the players together.   That's what's so great about team events.   You make so many new friends and get to know players so well.   Golf is such an individual sport you don't get to know the other players and get to play team events that much.   But Michelle is just a character.   She's so much fun and bubbly and she jokes around, so it's pretty relaxed whenever you're around her.   You know she's going to crack jokes and just make fun.  
   
 Q.   You'll probably see a lot and read a lot tomorrow morning about the importance of this pairing to the LPGA.   Michelle said she kind of understood that as well.   Do you understand how people might be excited about this or do you just go out and win a golf tournament?   
LEXI THOMPSON:   I know people will be really excited about tomorrow's pairing, but I'm not really going to worry about it.   I'm just going to go out and have fun tomorrow.   It's the final day of a major, and I'm tied for the lead, so I'm very excited that I've put myself in this position.   I'm just going to go out and have fun and play in front of those fans.   
KELLY THESIER:   Lexi, I know you probably don't want to think too much about the idea of winning, but has the possibility of that leap‑‑ everybody talks about the leap into Poppie's Pond.   Have you thought at all about what that would be like or what your jump might be like if it does come?   
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, I've definitely thought about it.   It's pretty hard not to when you pass it every time coming up to the 18th green.   It's definitely a dream of mine and it has been a goal of mine ever since I first played in this tournament.   But I'm really looking forward to it.   This tournament has so much history behind it, so it would be quite an honor to win this tournament.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT