SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 12, 2013
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   I would like to welcome in our third‑round leader, Lexi Thompson, into the media center.   
Awesome round today:   5‑under today, leading by three.   Take us through the round.   You have to feel good.   Take us through how you felt today and all the goods.  
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, I felt really well going into today.   I had a good practice session before my round, so I was pretty confident going into the round.  
All I'm really focusing on is just committing to every shot and being positive with it.   Pretty much trusting every shot.   
MODERATOR:   Now, you're trailing by one; got off to a pretty decently quick start.   Ilhee bogeyed 2.   Kind of in the mix tied.   Do you think that kind of jump started it?   You talked about momentum yesterday.   
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, I think this game is all about momentum.   Once you make a few birdies you feel good and just try to keep that going.   
But I'm just trying to focus on my game, not the other players I'm playing with.   Ilhee and Shanshan are great players, so I had a really fun day today.  
Like I said, just focusing on my own game.   That's all I can do.   Just trying to make birdies when I can and pars on the holes that have difficult pin locations.  
MODERATOR:   Everyone talked about a couple difficult pins.   Not nearly as many low scores today.   Talk about course conditions today.   Everyone said pins were also tough.   
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, the pin locations were definitely tough today, closer to the edges.   Especially like 15.   They tucked it way right and barely on over there, so pretty much just playing in the middle of that green and taking par.   
Yeah, you just to have play smart out here when they tuck pins like that.  
MODERATOR:   Now, putting has been a little bit of your Achilles' heel.   I know you've been working very, very hard.   Today it looked like you couldn't miss.   Talk about what you've worked on.   Today it looked like you were almost unstoppable on the greens.  
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, the last few events have actually been a lot better with my putting.   I went back to my old‑style of putting and just went to how I was putting when I was really little.   Hitting them a little firmer and staying a little farther away.   
So I'm feeling really confident with my putter, and mainly that os what putting is all about.   It's just getting over the putter and saying you're going to make it.   
MODERATOR:   I know you changed it up.   Are you back to now?   How would you describe it?  
LEXI THOMPSON:   Just conventional.   I overlap a finger underneath.   Nothing too crazy.   Haven't switched it up.  
MODERATOR:   All right.   Now, holding the lead for the first time for the third twice ‑ you held it twice in 2011 with the Avnet and then the Navistar when you won.   How does it feel going into this fourth round?   You have to be pretty fired up.   This is the position you want to be in.   
LEXI THOMPSON:   It feels really good.   Every player wants to go into the final round with a lead.   
But like I said, you just to have take one shot at a time and not get ahead of yourself.   It's golf, so anything can happen.   There are a lot of great players behind me, so I know I have to keep up the great play and make birdies out there.   
MODERATOR:   Yeah, a lot of birdies to be had; a lot of scoring opportunities.   People can go low tomorrow.   Is that something you have in the back of your mind, knowing people will be gunning for you?   
LEXI THOMPSON:   I know players will go low tomorrow.   There's top players here.   They're going to make birdies.   I gist have to top 'em, I guess.   Just focus on one shot at a time and try to make birdies out there.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Lexi.   
   
 Q.   When you're going into the fourth round can you usually stay focused?   
LEXI THOMPSON:   Well, I have no different mindset than I had the last three days.   I'm pretty focused before my round.   I have my iPod on and just getting in my zone and getting warmed up and not really worrying about what's going on.  
Like I said, just focusing on one shot at a time.   Just going to try to do what I did the last three days.   Not going to be any different mindset than tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned smart play just now.   How crucial is that going to be tomorrow?   Is it a bit different that you have a cushion to work with?   
LEXI THOMPSON:   Well, smart play is very important, especially in final rounds if you're in contention.  
Obviously you know with being in the final and what the other players are doing when to be aggressive and when to play smart.   You can take advantage on a few of the holes, but if pins are tucked tomorrow you just play to the middle of the green and take a two‑putt.   Or if not, make a putt and keep going.   
   
 Q.   You have been named tippy toes.   
LEXI THOMPSON:   What's that mean?  
THE MODERATOR:   I don't know.   What was that referring to?   Oh, when you get up on your toes.   
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, I've always had that.   Even as a little kid you can see I get up on my toes.   I've tried to stay pretty stable on the ground and it just doesn't work for me.   I just love hitting my driver, so I go into 100% confidence and I get a little airborne.  
Can't really control it.   
   
 Q.   Can you just sum up the tournaments here in Malaysia?  
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, this is one the best events.   We have a lot of fans out there today supporting us.   The golf course is one of the best.   It's always in such great shape for us.   This is only my second year, but it's always so well run with the shuttles for us every day and the hospitality.  
It's an honor to come back to this event, and I look forward to it every year.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned just now that you had made some changes with your putting.   Now you've gone back to your conventional style.   What had you done before that wasn't working?  
LEXI THOMPSON:   I was messing around a little bit with my setup and sometimes my grip.   I would do crosshand, and I was pretty much standing closer to the ball trying to get my eye over it.  
Even as a little kid I stood and lined up way differently.   Just going back to the way I feel nice and relaxed and have a lot of confidence pretty much.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT