SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 11, 2013
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Well, I would like to welcome in Lexi Thompson.   Lexi, great round today.   Currently ranked second by just 1 now.   But take us through your day today, fantastic round, a little up‑and‑down, but take us through the round, your birdies, and obviously that beautiful eagle on 14.   
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, I shot 2‑under on my front nine, so pretty steady first nine, just made pars and made a few birdies.   But my back nine started and I think I birdied 13 and 14 and then eagled.   I birdied 11 and 12 and then eagled 13 or whatever, so I'm so confused.   But it was all about momentum.   
On the back nine I made a few birdies and then I had that eagle, so I pretty much just had it going my way.   I just tried to keep confident out there.   Focused on one shot at a time.  
   
 Q.   What was the yardage and the club?   
LEXI THOMPSON:   On the 14th hole I had 127 yards, a little too the wind, so I just hit a controlled pitching wedge and it one‑bounced in.  
   
 Q.   I was going to say you were like oh‑oh.   It was almost expected?   You knew it was online?   
LEXI THOMPSON:   It was right online.   But I couldn't see the bottom of the hole, but a few of the volunteers up by the green started yelling, so I was like, all right, maybe it went in.  
   
 Q.   You tied for 30th last year here.   Do you have any memories of this course or expectations that you've kind of been playing off of?   Did you have any course management approach this week that you ran with?   
LEXI THOMPSON:   Well, I remembered how I played the course last year.   It's playing pretty similar, maybe a little softer this year.   But I had the same course management this year.   I just might be hitting a little straighter this year than I did last.   
The course is in amazing shape as usual, and I was looking forward to coming back.   It's pretty hot out there, so just trying to stay hydrated.   But the course is in amazing shape, so it's always an honor to play here.  
   
 Q.   Since Solheim Cup you've played very well.   Two top 10 finishes.   Third at Evian, I believe, what an awesome finish for you.   Did you think playing in that event really kind of helped catapult you?   I know watching you on TV, you were playing with confidence and really embraced it.   Do you think that helped turn things around in this season and going forward?   
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, I really do.   I think Solheim Cup helped me so much with my attitude and confidence out on the golf course.   That is probably the most pressure you'll ever play under.   So I get out to a regular LPGA event, and I'm a lot more relaxed now.   Hitting those shots under pressure, you know you can do it once you pull them off.   So you come out here and have nothing but confidence out there.  
   
 Q.   International Crown is coming around the corner.   You're in the mix.   I think you're two‑back on making the team.   So you still have time to make up for that fourth spot.   Talk about the goal of making that team?   Because I know you really embraced playing for your country, wearing the red, white and blue.   How much of a goal is that in your mind in the short term almost?   
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, it's definitely one of my top goals right now.   There is nothing like representing your country and wearing your country's colors.   Like I said, it's the highest honor representing your country.   Putting on the red, white and blue, and hearing USA cheers going up to the greens and everything.   Words can't even describe that feeling.  
   
 Q.   Now like I said, tied for third at Evian, solid finish in a major.   Did you want to keep going?   Or did you need that three‑week break?  
LEXI THOMPSON:   I did.  
   
 Q.   What was your attitude after that and coming into this week after that break?   
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, well, I actually got my wisdom teeth out the week I got back, so I had to take a whole week off pretty much, but I definitely needed a break.   I figured I'd go home, relax and practice up for these last few events of the year.   I came into this week feeling ready and just confident about it.  
   
 Q.   How did the surgery go?   I got mine, and it's not fun or pretty.   
LEXI THOMPSON:   It went really well.   I had all four wisdom teeth out.   It took about 35 minutes, so I was pretty sore for a few days, but it went great.   No more pains.  
   
 Q.   Good excuse to drink milkshakes.   
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah.   Exactly.  
   
 Q.   I also believe you became an aunt in the time off.   Your older brother had a baby?  
LEXI THOMPSON:   Uh‑huh.  
   
 Q.   How special of an event was that to be home for that and just experience that with the rest of your family?   
LEXI THOMPSON:   It was amazing.   We knew it was going to happen pretty soon, and she had the baby last Wednesday.   It was actually when I was practicing, so we drove up there and I got to see Nicolas James.   He is the cutest thing.   Words can't even describe it.   But, yeah, Aunt Lexi now.   That's my name.  
   
 Q.   You've been playing on the Tour for a couple of years now, and how has it been?   You're quite young.   
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, I'm 18 years old.  
   
 Q.   How has it been playing with all of the top players?   
LEXI THOMPSON:   Well, I turned pro in 2010, so the first two years I was just playing on sponsor exemptions and getting used to it.   But I've always played against older girls in older age divisions, so I've been quite used to it.   But this has been my dream to play out in the LPGA.   When I decided to turn pro when I was 15 years old, I knew it was the right decision to take my game to the next level.  
   
 Q.   Are you still attending school?   
LEXI THOMPSON:   I graduated high school two years ago.   I graduated a year early.   I did online schooling, the Florida Virtual School.  
   
 Q.   How was your game this morning?   Was it different from how you played yesterday?   How was the golf course playing today?   
LEXI THOMPSON:   It was playing quite a bit softer today with the rain.   But it's still in really good shape.   The greens are rolling so pure and pretty quickly.   But I played pretty similar to yesterday.   I had a good back nine, so I'm just going to try to keep that going into the weekend.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT