SAFEWAY CLASSIC PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
August 29, 2013
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I'd like to welcome Lexi Thompson into the interview room.   Thanks for coming in.   Great round today.   I heard you tell out Jerry Foltz (phonetic) out there that you didn't hit your driver well.   I knew that didn't reflect in your score.   Nice 7‑under round.   What went well for you out there?  
LEXI THOMPSON:   I would say just my iron shots into the green.   I hit a lot of good ones and I played the par‑5s 4‑under, so I took advantage of those.   
Overall I've just been working on the consistency of my game and working on tightening it up.  
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts on Portland?   
7‑under par round, what went well for you out there?   
LEXI THOMPSON:   I would say just my iron shots into the greens today very good.   I have been working on tightening up my shots even with my driver and the last few weeks have been the best.  
   
 Q.   Yeah, I know it's been a pretty grueling past weeks for you.   You kick it off with Solheim Cup.   You are young, but how are you feeling?  
LEXI THOMPSON:   I feel pretty good right now.   A few days after Solheim Cup were pretty tough.   Those few practice rounds I was definitely not into it.   
This is a good three‑week stretch opening up with Solheim and Safeway Classic.  
   
 Q.   You were working on Solheim Cup this year.   What did you take away from that experience?  
LEXI THOMPSON:   Well, it was the most amazing experience I have ever had on a golf course.   I love team events.   I've played a lot of junior and amateur team events.   There's just nothing like that.   
You make so many new friends there.   Just seeing at Solheim Cup hundreds of people around to cheer you on, there was nothing like this.   I mean, what I learned, you know, I learned a lot about myself and I made a lot of new friends, like I said.  
   
 Q.   We have International Crown coming up next year.   The teams will be announced.   Does that give you any extra motivation for the last two tournaments this year?  
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, it definitely does.   I love events like that.   There's nothing like it.   I mean, we are so used to being an individual sport that we love playing as a team.   I will definitely try my hardest at these events that I have (inaudible).  
   
 Q.   Kind of crazy to think that you are 18years old and you are no longer a rookie.   It seems like you're so comfortable out there.   Is that true?  
LEXI THOMPSON:   I would say last year and this year I have been a lot more comfortable.   You know, playing on sponsored events when I first came out here, I had a lot to learn and just trying to make my way around here.   I am getting used to the travel life and how to get around by myself.  
   
 Q.   Could you tell us about your eagle?   What did you hit and how far?  
LEXI THOMPSON:   It was on hole 7.   I hit my driver actually in the right rough and I hit like a three‑quarter 6‑iron and hit pretty far short and it rolled all the way up to about sixfeet above the hole and(inaudible).  
   
 Q.   Can you evaluate how you think the year has gone for you?  
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, I think it's gone pretty well for me.   I had a little slow start.   I've had a few off events for me.   
Right now I think this is the best my game has ever been.   I am just trying to take things from each event to try to improve.   I have been nonstop working on my game trying to improve little things and I think it's showing.  
   
 Q.   Some thoughts on the golf course, what do you think of it?   
LEXI THOMPSON:   The golf course?   The golf course is amazing.   It's in great shape.   It's playing pretty soft right now with all the rain.   I heard it is usually played pretty firm.   It's an amazing place.   It's so plush.   It's tree‑lined, so you have to keep it in the fairway out here and take advantage of the (inaudible).  
   
 Q.   You've had the lead once this year after the first round.   Did you‑‑ I can't remember where that was, but did you learn anything from that one experience where you had the lead after the first round?  
LEXI THOMPSON:   It might have been Toledo.   Every round is a learning experience.   Obviously with a lead after the first round, you try to take that momentum into every other round after that.   But it's golf and you have to take oneshot at a time and not get ahead of yourself.   That's all I'm going to do (inaudible).  
   
 Q.   In weeks like this when you and your brother are playing on Tour the same week, do you communicate much?   Do you text or call?  
LEXI THOMPSON:   We don't call each other that much.   We text back and forth pretty much every day and say good luck to each other.   I think that's the most important thing just having a good support system behind you.  
   
 Q.   This is tied for your low round of the year, was it your best round of the year, do you feel like?  
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, I would say it was.   With how my golf game is right now, just trusting my shot and going for it, I would say that it was my best round.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT