CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 24, 2019
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great final round to finish out the last event of the year.  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, it was a little shaky of a start, but I stayed strong. Benji helped me out a lot out there with the struggle on the first few holes.   
Finished strong, so I'm very happy with my final round. I'll be back here in two weeks. (Laughter.) My season is not over.   
 Q.  Lexi, you've been coming here for years, and every time you show up here people are like they're exhausted. This had much more of a major championship feel to it. You didn't get that same sort of we're-really-tired-and-can't-wait-for-the-season-to-be-over vibe. Did I read that right?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I mean, I think we all have a little bit of that inside of us. But, no, I think just the atmosphere of this event, not only the with the purse doubling and the amount of money we were playing for makes a huge difference, but just the atmosphere, how this tournament is run, the amount of fans that we get out here, all the grandstands. It gives it a major championship feel for sure, I think, as one of the majors.   
 Q.  Thoughts on Danielle? She eagled 17. She's a shot back coming in. Watching her...  
LEXI THOMPSON: Did not know that.   
 Q.  Yeah.  
LEXI THOMPSON: I honestly didn't look at one leaderboard, but that's awesome. Yeah, it's awesome. I got to play with her the second day or something and she was playing really well.   
Obviously she's playing even better today. She's a great player. Everybody knows she has a low score capable every time she tees it up. So good for her. I don't know what she did on this hole, but finish strong.   
 Q.  We know you've got QBE in two weeks here.  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yep.   
 Q.  What are your off-season plans after that?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I'm going to Cabo for about four days.   
 Q.  For vacation?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, for vacation, yep. Staying at a Diamond Resort, so it will be so much fun. I'm just excited to put my phone on airplane mode and just get away.   
 Q.  Will you do any fishing or anything? What do you do in Cabo?  
LEXI THOMPSON: I don't know. Just there is a bunch of stuff to do at the hotel and the resort there. There is ATV riding, there is fishing, and just a bunch of stuff.   
So I don't even care if I just do nothing. Just sit out by the pool.   
 Q.  No golf?  
LEXI THOMPSON: No golf. Clubs will not be taken.   
 Q.  How well do you know Sean O'Hair?  
LEXI THOMPSON: I know him pretty well. He has been pretty close with my brother. He grew up with Nick and everything, so they're close. You know, I've met him once or twice, so not super close. He's such a nice guy, so I'm really looking forward to it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT