U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 29, 2013
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I'm here covering Brooke Henderson.   From what you went through, was it an intimidating experience at all for you when you were 12 playing in this tournament?   
LEXI THOMPSON:   It was not so much intimidating.   I was just so excited to be here, just playing in at a place I had seen on TV.   I guess it was a little intimidating.   I was just so happy to be there.   
I think at that year at the U.S. Women's Open, that's when I knew I wanted to play on the LPGA.   That's when I realized this was my dream.  
   
 Q.   Sure.   Were there challenges?   I mean, I guess with all the attention you were getting as well, were there distractions and stuff like that?  
LEXI THOMPSON:   At the Open?   
   
 Q.   Yeah.   
LEXI THOMPSON:   There was a lot of media requests, obviously.   A lot of people following.   I missed the cut by a lot, obviously.   I didn't leave until I signed every autograph.   I just loved being there.   But, yeah, just a lot of media requests.   I love doing it, so I was happy to be there.  
   
 Q.   Did you miss the cut because you were in over your head or did you not play as well as you could have?  
LEXI THOMPSON:   Well, I don't think I played as well as I could have, but the course was a little too much for me to handle at 12.   I don't think I reached a few of the holes.   You know, it was a learning experience.   I learn every year, every tournament.  
   
 Q.   Brooke made the cut, but she was 83 today.   Would you have any words or advice or encouragement or anything like that for her?  
LEXI THOMPSON:   She is 15?   
   
 Q.   Yeah.   
LEXI THOMPSON:   This is her host Open, I'm guessing.  
   
 Q.   Yeah, she is amateur.   
LEXI THOMPSON:   Making the cut at your first U.S. Women's Open, that is a huge accomplishment.   You had one bad run, but we all do.   I've even had an 82 this year.   It's unfortunate, but it's golf.   
It was super windy today and playing super hard.   I think her score was 4‑over, 4 or 5‑over.   She has one more day.   I would say just enjoy it.  
   
 Q.   You have no regrets for turning pro when you did?  
LEXI THOMPSON:   No, I have no regrets whatsoever.   I wanted to follow my dreams and I felt like I needed to take my game to the next level and that's what I did.   I'm loving every bit of it and traveling the world.  
   
 Q.   Did you have lots of college opportunities?  
LEXI THOMPSON:   I don't think a lot of college coaches watched me because they heard I was turning pro.   I think I had a few that were watching me, but I didn't really look into it.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT