U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 5, 2012
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Okay.   Lexi Thompson is with us.   She is 2‑under par, 70 today.   Let's talk about the heat.   How did you deal with that?   Heat index of about 105.
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah.   It was extremely hot out there.   I had my umbrella pretty much the hole time and a cool towel around my neck.   So staying hydrated was really important.
THE MODERATOR:   How much did you drink or water or whatever did you drink out there?   Every hole.
LEXI THOMPSON:   Every hole.   Pretty much at least one water a hole, if not more.
THE MODERATOR:   And how do you feel now?   You finished strong.   Still feel fresh and ready to go again? 
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah.   Feeling good.   I'm going to relax the rest of the day.   I have a late tee time tomorrow.   I tee off at 2009 and going to relax after that and go out with the same attitude.
THE MODERATOR:   And how do you feel about the way you played today? 
LEXI THOMPSON:   I feel really good about it.   I had two bogeys on the back nine.   So I got off track a little bit there, but I bounced back and made a few birdies, so was really happy with that and ended on birdies so take that into tomorrow.
THE MODERATOR:   Let's go over your birdies.   If you could just tell us what clubs you hit and the length of the putts.   I don't have the score sheet here, but perhaps you can go by this.
LEXI THOMPSON:   All right.   Well, No. 2, par‑5 I hit my 3‑wood on the green from like 235 front.   I hit it on the green about 40 feet and made about 10‑footer for birdie. 
And then No. 5, I think.   Yeah.   No. 5 I had about a 12 footer for birdie with my lob wedge.   I hit the lob wedge to 12 feet and made birdie. 
It's really hard to remember.   Okay.   And then ‑‑
THE MODERATOR:   You had a couple of bogeys on the back nine.
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah.   I bogeyed 12 and 13.   I just missed the green on both and didn't get up‑and‑down.   And then 14 ‑‑ no.   15 I birdied.   I hit my 55‑degree from about 100 yards to six feet and made it.   And then I birdied the next hole.   I hit my lob wedge from like 61 yards to ten feet.
THE MODERATOR:   Seven feet.
LEXI THOMPSON:   Ten feet.   And then I birdied the last hole.
THE MODERATOR:   Okay.   And how long was that putt on 18.
LEXI THOMPSON:   On 18 it was about eight feet.
THE MODERATOR:   So putting was good and you said in your pre‑championship interviews that you hoped to putt well because that's the key to this.
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah.   It's really important.   You have to place your ball in the right spot on the greens and sometimes just play away from the pins and take your par and two‑putt.
THE MODERATOR:   Okay.   Questions, please.

Q.   Lexi, it was going pretty slowly out there.   How do you keep your concentration on such long rounds, and why was it going slowly out there today?
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, I didn't realize how slow it was going until I made the turn and it was three hours later.   You know, you just have to do your routine on every shot and just keep your focus, and like you said, just stay hydrated.   It's really hot, so you just have to stay hydrated and cool and just relax.

Q.   Why were the rounds so long?
LEXI THOMPSON:   I'm not sure why the rounds were so long.   My group didn't take much time at all.   But you know, it didn't seem like it was going by that slow, but maybe just the heat and it was slowing a few people down.

Q.   Lexi, you had a couple of nice bounce backs on holes today.   Can you talk about maybe your temperament and your mindset or attitude that helps you do that?
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah.   Pretty much I made a few bogeys midway through the back nine but once you get to an easier hole you have to go into it with a positive attitude and say you're going to birdie this hole and just go into it confident and just forget about the bogeys that you just made and just bounce back from it. 

Q.   Can you talk a little bit about your work with Dave stock stone and your putting and just kind of what you're concentrating on out there as far as putting?
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah.   I worked with Dave Stockton and Jim McLean on my putting.   Just you know, putting is pretty much all about confidence and just trusting your line and putting a good stroke on it, because you just have to put a good stroke on it.   If it doesn't go in you can't do anything about it.   It's pretty much on the mental mindset and a few technical things in my stroke and set up. 

Q.   So how is it different now than perhaps at the Kraft or can you pinpoint any specifics about your stroke that are different?
LEXI THOMPSON:   At Kraft I was just trying to change a bunch of things at one time, which probably wasn't the best idea.   But now I just figure with a few things in my set up that's actually helped out with my stroke.   Just little things instead of just changing big things in my grip or setup that I was doing at the Kraft.
THE MODERATOR:   Coming into this championship did you ever have a thought I'd really love to open with a round that's under par.   Did you ever have any kind of mental image of what you'd like to do and if so, does this live up to it.
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah.   Coming into this event just preparing for it the few days before I knew I could open with an under‑par round.   You just have to be patient and take your pars on the hard holes and just go for the shorter par‑4s and try to make birdies there.   So I'm extremely happy with my round today and hopefully do the same the next three days.

Q.   Considering where you live, where you grow up, how often do you play on days like this?   How often do you play when it's this hot?
LEXI THOMPSON:   Being from south Florida I'm used to the heat, so I play every day, no matter how hot it is. 

Q.   Is it an advantage that you play so much in the heat?
LEXI THOMPSON:   I would say I'm definitely more used to it, I guess, being in South Florida, growing up there.   So it's definitely helped out, getting used to this and last week in Arkansas. 

Q.   Lexi, you mentioned a while back that in the bounce‑back there were some holes where you were going into it with the attitude that I'm going to birdie this hole.   How many holes out there can you go into saying I'm going to birdie this hole?
LEXI THOMPSON:   There's not many, but once you get your drive in the fairway and then you can go for the pin, then you know if you can birdie or not.   But there are a few shorter par‑4s, I guess, but there is definitely not too many holes out here.   But there are a few that if you go into confidently and try to make birdies.

Q.   Would you take four rounds of 2‑under par in 72 holes the next three days?
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah.   I would definitely take four rounds at 2‑under par but I'm just going to try to do the same thing I did today and stay confident, patient.   That's pretty much all you have to do in an Open out there. 
THE MODERATOR:   Did you ever get nervous out there today.
LEXI THOMPSON:   Not really.   I mean first tee shot you always have that adrenaline, nervous feeling, but it's more exciting than nervous.   I take it as that's what I'm playing golf for, just for that feeling.   So I enjoyed it.

Q.   It's been pretty well documented youngest to do this and that.   What would it mean to you to be the youngest to win a major?
LEXI THOMPSON:   It would mean a lot.   That's a pretty big achievement right there.   There's a lot of golf to be played.   Three more days on a challenging golf course.   So I'm just going to go out and try to play the golf course and try to do my best.
THE MODERATOR:   And where are you headed now, once you walk out of the media room.
LEXI THOMPSON:   If lunch is still serving I would like to get something to eat and then maybe just hit some balls and relax the rest of the day.
THE MODERATOR:   Go to the hotel, put your feet up, watch TV.
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yep.   Definitely. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you so much, Lexi.   Great round.   Good luck tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT