SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC
June 3, 2012
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   All right.   We're here with Alexis Thompson who just finished the final round here at the ShopRite LPGA Classic.   Great playing out there today.   Can you take me through your round and what was working for you?
ALEXIS THOMPSON:   Yeah, actually I started off pretty bad.   I doubled the second hole.   Bad shot. 
Then I finished strong.   I made some birdies, and I dropped a few putts, so that definitely helps.

Q.   Coming off a really strong finish that you had back at the Mobile Bay LPGA Classic, finished runner‑up there.   Now right near the top of the leaderboard.   What's working well with your game right now that's really leading to these great results?
ALEXIS THOMPSON:   I've just been working on my consistency with my ball striking, and I've been working on my short game a lot, so it's finally playing off.   Hopefully I can continue that.

Q.   We hadn't seen you in a little bit because you took the Sybase Match Play championship off for prom.   Tell me about that experience and how much fun you had being able to do that?
ALEXIS THOMPSON:   Yeah, it was amazing.   Prom was definitely worth taking that week off.   That's for sure.   I had a lot of fun.   I chose Mark Scott, and I was honored to take somebody from the service, especially a guy like him.

Q.   And now ready for kind of the next stretch next week, the second major of the season.   How do you feel about your game heading into that?
ALEXIS THOMPSON:   I feel really good, especially ending on that round, so I'm just going to take that round and go positive into next week.

Q.   How do you think the field felt teeing off today with Stacy being out about so many strokes?
ALEXIS THOMPSON:   Yeah.   They probably thought that they need to make a lot of birdies.   That's what I thought, and then I struggled on No. 2 but then fought back and that's what it's all about.

Q.   Did you feel like you had a chance maybe to put some heat on her because you did get on a birdie roll there for a while?
ALEXIS THOMPSON:   Not so much to her, but maybe like to second place.   So I was just trying to make birdies and get up the leaderboard.

Q.   With a win here Stacy will become the top American on tour.   What impresses you the most about Stacy?
ALEXIS THOMPSON:   Yeah, I've actually played with Stacy a good amount of time.   She's really consistent, pretty long, too, so it helps that she's got a tremendous short game, too. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT