U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 5, 2012
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What a good start.   
LEXI THOMPSON:   Thank you.   It feels good.   You just gotta stay patient out there any time at an Open.   
   
 Q.   Got to two, one, two?  
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah.   The back nine, you know, I had a few bogeys and birdies, but the most important thing was that I bounced back.   So I'm pretty positive about that.  
   
 Q.   What was more difficult for you?   The conditions or the golf course?  
LEXI THOMPSON:   Well, the conditions today it wasn't much wind.   I think there was about five or seven miles per hour winds.   But the course is playing pretty long.   So it definitely tests your long irons.  
   
 Q.   The greens?   How about the greens?  
LEXI THOMPSON:   The greens are good.   You just ‑‑ you really have to place it in the right spot on the greens and play smart.   Sometimes you just take your two putts out there and not try to hit a pin and short side yourself.  
   
 Q.   You got to 2‑under.   You said par is a good thing.   Now you got basically you gained two.   What does that do to your head and how do you approach tomorrow?  
LEXI THOMPSON:   I'm not going to play any differently.   I'm just going to go out like I did today and try to make pars and a few birdies when I can.   So just gotta stay patient and positive out there and you can't get yourself down.  
   
 Q.   You're always so poised and confident at this point in your career.   Is it inborn?  
LEXI THOMPSON:   Well, growing up with two older brothers I've learned a lot from them, always trying to compete and stay with them, but I've matured at a young age.   But just playing out here always against older people has definitely matured me a lot on the golf course.  
   
 Q.   Is it a hard course a challenging course, a great big tournament and hot conditions, do you feel pretty good all things considered where you're at right now?  
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah.   I feel really good about where I'm at right now.   I'm just going to have the same attitude going into tomorrow and hopefully around the same score will be nice.  
   
 Q.   Thank you very much.   
LEXI THOMPSON:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT