CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 22, 2019
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You were on the green carpet last night with five-inch heels on. This one is a lot more comfortable. You looked extremely comfortable with the putter. We noticed yesterday no claw. The claw came back today. What prompted that change?  
LEXI THOMPSON: A little practice session after yesterday's round. I struggled quite a bit on the greens yesterday, and I've been kind of back and forth just trying to find something I'm very comfortable with, and claw it is. Now it's just more of repetitions, getting more and more comfortable with it.   
 Q.  You get that eagle on 6, you're steady throughout the round and then you get the expected birdie on 17. How important was that birdie to continue the momentum into the weekend?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, it was very important. 17 is definitely an easy -- one of the easier birdie holes, especially if you hit it in that fairway, then you can go for that green. But it's a difficult green to hit, but having a little bit of into the wind for the second shot helped out with my driving iron coming into that green. It was important to -- I was hoping for the eagle, but I'll definitely take a nice tap-in birdie for sure.   
 Q.  You were moving up the leaderboard today. What were some of the differences between yesterday and today?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Well, today I made a nice eagle on No. 5, I believe. I chipped in from the bunker, and that was a little bit of a momentum getter for sure. I started off with just a few pars, but I was hitting it well, had those birdie opportunities, and overall I just felt a lot better over my putting, so that was big for me and made a few nice putts out there.   
 Q.  You went back to the claw today. What prompted that change?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Putting poorly yesterday prompted that change. I practiced a bit after yesterday's round, and I feel very comfortable with the claw. I've just gone away from it just because I started struggling with it and golfers are always tinkering.   
 Q.  You are the defending champion. You've had quite a successful run here at Tiburón Golf Club. What is it about this course that brings out the best in your game?  
LEXI THOMPSON: I think honestly just Tiburón Golf Club is always in great shape for us. It's a great layout. I get to play it pretty aggressively. Don't hit too many drivers, but I hit to hit a lot of 3-woods, which I like. But just the atmosphere. The whole week is very relaxing and fun. I get a lot of family members and friends out here to support me, so even if I don't play my best, I have a good time just seeing all my supporters out here.   
 Q.  Your dog Leo is also in attendance. What's it like having your family come up and watch you in this big season ender?  
LEXI THOMPSON: It means the world to me. I probably have at least 20, 30 people that come out to support me just of my family and friends, and that means the world to me that they take time out of their lives to come out and support. I'm just grateful for every single one of them, and just finishing here in Naples at a hometown event kind of is nice.   
 Q.  Are you paying attention to the board at this point in the tournament at all?  
LEXI THOMPSON: I think I looked at it on 16, I believe, so I kind of knew where I was at, but I'm just really trying to focus on my game. I'm working on things in my swing and my putting obviously, going back and forth. But I'm just trying to get to where I'm playing good golf and feel comfortable with my swing and just back to the aggressive Lexi.   
 Q.  You are doing this flat-footed drill. Can you talk about why that's helping you and what you like about it?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah. I started it just for about the last month, month and a half. Everybody knows I jump off the ground, but it's really because my right foot picks up too early and then I get stuck behind me, so I'm just trying to keep it on the ground a little bit longer, which kind of helps with my overall jump not being as much.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT