OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 17, 2011
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  ALEXIS THOMPSON:   I'm really honored that they invited me back and grateful to be here.

Q.   As your dad said, your first one, some people could say, well, it was a fluke, but I mean what does it show do you think to folks out there?   What message does it send to other golfers that you're for real or what do you think having two big wins like this means to you?
ALEXIS THOMPSON:   I'm not sure what the message is, but I've been working on my game really hard, so it's paid off and I'm just going to continue working hard and just trying to improve every tournament.

Q.   Lee‑Anne was putting some pressure on you at the beginning.   How did you cope? 
ALEXIS THOMPSON:   I knew I had to make birdies.   She was playing really consistent and making birdies.   She was like 3‑under through four, so I just had to keep on making birdies and playing with her.

Q.   There's always a turning point which seems to change things.   The chip‑in at 9, tell us about that one. 
ALEXIS THOMPSON:   Yeah, it definitely was a changer right there, but I was just trying to get up‑and‑downs.   That was just a bonus for me.

Q.   You birdied 10, 11, 13 and 14.   You're then four or five shots clear.   It's in your hands.   What's going through your mind?   What are your emotions like then?
ALEXIS THOMPSON:   It's definitely relieving, but I was just trying to play consistent, keep it going, definitely play a little safe coming in, but I ended up making birdie on 18.

Q.   What about having your dad alongside you while you're achieving these great things.   Tell us about that relationship on the course.   Who's in charge?
ALEXIS THOMPSON:   It's so nice to have my dad on the bag.   He knows my game and from junior golf, he's been caddying for me.   But I would say I'm the boss, but he has his inputs and club choices, too.

Q.   A word about the sponsors in Dubai?   They put on a great tournament, don't they?
ALEXIS THOMPSON:   Oh, yeah.   They definitely do.   The Omega and Dubai Golf.   They put on a great tournament.   I was just honored that they invited me back and looking forward to coming back many years to come.

Q.   The LPGA have made an exception in your case that have allowed you to become a member for next year.   How excited about the prospect of playing 15 or maybe more tournaments on the LPGA?
ALEXIS THOMPSON:   I'm extremely excited.   Just getting to play every week, every week after week.   I love playing.   Just keep it going and keep on practicing in between tournaments, too.

Q.   What sort of goals do you have for yourself, short and long‑term?
ALEXIS THOMPSON:   You know, I go into every event wanting to win, but just improving my game, that's my goal, lifetime. 

Q.   You've won an extremely large check today.   It's coming up to Christmas.   Are you going to buy yourself a little present?
ALEXIS THOMPSON:   I'm definitely going to go Christmas shopping, but a lot for family, too.   I'll probably treat myself, though.

Q.   Congratulations.   Incredible play today.   Well done. 
ALEXIS THOMPSON:   Thank you so much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT