KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 31, 2012
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Congratulations.   A great round today, 4‑under par 68.   I know not quite the finish that you probably would have wanted on 18, but you got off to a tremendous start early on and looked like you had things going early.   Can you take me through the round and what was working well for you out there today?   
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, I started off really great.   I started off with three birdies, then par, then another birdie.   I'm not sure.   But I shot 31 on the front, so it got me pretty excited and just got me going.  
You know, I ended with a bogey, but it got pretty windy for the last three or four holes, so I was happy with a par and just get away with one bogey.  
THE MODERATOR:   When you get off to a start like that and you tally so many birdies early on, do you start thinking about a low round?   Do you start thinking about how far you can move up a leaderboard especially on Saturday of a major championship weekend?   
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, I was thinking I was definitely shooting a low score, but I was trying not to get ahead of myself.   You just have to take one shot at a time, especially at a major, so you just have to focus one shot at a time and see where it goes.  
THE MODERATOR:   You talked about the wind picking up on those last few holes?   Did you know about that the winds were going to pick up this afternoon and was that in your thoughts at all during your round today?   
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, I knew they were going to pick up they said around 3:00 it was supposed to be like gusts of 75.   So I was like, oh, that should be great.   But it happened that it became windy for my last three or four holes, so I had to hit some knock‑downs and just three‑quarter shots.   
THE MODERATOR:   On 18 I was there.   I got to see the chip shot that you hit.   Can you take me through your third shot and the drop situation that you had there and why you chose to hit from there and what you were thinking on that shot?   
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah.   I hit my third shot over the green against the stands over there.   So I had a free drop either two club lengths where I could get a swing or I could drop over behind the green.   
I chose that spot just because I knew where I was landing it and I could see my shot instead of flopping it over on top of a hill, and I knew the shot I wanted to hit.  
THE MODERATOR:   Wonderful.   Questions for Lexi.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you left some strokes out there with your putting?   When you look back at that round, is that what you're going to regret the most?  
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah.   I felt like I left probably about two out there I would have liked to make, of course, the last putt.   But overall I take positives out of it and the great shots I hit; and I putted a lot better today, so I'm just going to take some confidence going into tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   And did you speak earlier this week, are you missing prom or are you going to prom or is there a prom story?  
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah.   I'm going to prom.   My sponsors are setting it up to make it like a fun creative way.   
   
 Q.   How will that work?   How do the sponsors set up prom?  
LEXI THOMPSON:   Well, I'm not too sure what's going on.   They just gave me like a brief thing about it, but I know the fans are going to have something to do with picking my date, but I'll of course have the last say, so I'm not even sure.  
   
 Q.   Will that be more nerve‑wracking than making a short putt?  
LEXI THOMPSON:   It might be.   It's going to be a fun night.   That's all I can say.   
THE MODERATOR:   Prom's always fun no matter where you go.   
   
 Q.   Lexi, which shot on 18 was the hardest with the wind conditions for you?  
LEXI THOMPSON:   I would probably say the drive.   The drive when it was gusting really hard.   Probably 40 miles per hour.   At least it was going away from the water, but I knew if I hooked it, it wouldn't carry.   So that's why I left it outright.  
   
 Q.   Lexi, on 14 after the missed putt, you looked up in the air like I don't know if something passed over.   Can you tell us about that?  
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah.   Actually right in the middle of my stroke a bird flew over, so I could see the shadow right over my ball.   Not one to make excuses, but it sort of messed with my mind a little bit.   
   
 Q.   Lexi, back to 18, on the drive, would you have almost had to aim it at the water to land it on the right side of the fairway given how the wind was gusting, and was that a spot that ever entered your mind?  
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah.   With the way the wind was blowing you had to aim over the corner of the water or just a little inside it.   So that wasn't going in my mind.   I was aiming way right of that water.   I didn't care if the wind took it.   That's why I ended up in the trees.   But I didn't end up in the water at all on the hole, so I'm happy with that.  
   
 Q.   Greg said he thought what was most impressive was when the wind came up you were accepting of shots that were less than perfect, and that can be very hard for a golfer of any age.   How easy was that to do for you today?  
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah.   Well, when the wind came up, you have to take more club and just swing easy, because you can't swing out of control and expect good ball flight shots and expect to be close.   So with the way the wind was, 30, 20‑footers aren't that bad.   And you just get away with pars and be happy with it.   
   
 Q.   When you got to 6‑under, what was going through your head?  
LEXI THOMPSON:   I was thinking maybe I could make some more birdies, because I had a few more chances after that, but I ended up leaving them short.   You know, I was just taking one shot at a time the whole day and not getting ahead of myself.   
   
 Q.   What's your impression of how the course changed today as it got windier and also how it kind of changed through the week, the greens and the rough?  
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, it changed a lot.   Actually, the rough has grown up a lot.   They're watering it every day and not mowing it, so it's actually grown up a good bit.   But the course is playing a lot different with the wind.   I had a lot more longer shots, 7, 6‑irons in and three‑quarter shots, so it's playing a lot different.   
   
 Q.   Obviously Yani still has quite a few holes left, but what kind of round do you think it's going to take tomorrow?   I mean do you think you'll have to kind of career it?   What do you anticipate tomorrow?  
LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, well, it all depends if the wind picks up like it is now or if it's going to stay steady and play easy, but I'm just going to take one shot at a time and just try to make birdies, but I would think it's probably going to take like a 66 or something like that.   I just want to shoot low.   That's all I can do.  
   
 Q.   And where is prom exactly?  
LEXI THOMPSON:   Well, I'm not sure where the location is, but I will be going to Coral Glades High School prom.  
THE MODERATOR:   All right.   Any more questions for Lexi?   Thank you very much and congratulations again on a great round and best of luck tomorrow.  
LEXI THOMPSON:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT