NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC
September 16, 2011
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. We've talked a lot after these rounds, but what is it about these courses that seem to work so well for you and your game?
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Well they're set up a little bit longer, but they're in fantastic shape for us. I was the first one to hit out here and there were no divots or ball marks. 
 They're in great shape for us. I'm looking forward to playing more. 

 Q. After finding yourself at the top of the leaderboard yesterday, coming into today what were your expectations and what were you trying to focus on? 
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: I was just trying to focus on playing consistent. One shot at a time, focusing on hitting that one good. I'm playing smart and just making birdies. Just trying to do my best; that's all I can do.

 Q. You had experience at Avnet earlier in the year being in the lead and playing in the final groups on Saturday and Sunday. What are you going to take into tomorrow from that experience? What have you learned over many tournaments how to kind of prepare yourself for that?
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: I'm going to try to forget about Avnet, what I did the last day. I'm just going to try to go into the weekend and play like I did the two days: just relax and calm and just free swing.

 Q. Was it tough at Avnet?
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: At Avnet? 

 Q. However you say it.
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Yeah, obviously it was. Wasn't even that nervous actually teeing off. I don't know what happened. Just got a little quick on everything. 
 It happens; it's golf. You just got to take those rounds and put 'em behind you.

 Q. Back in '09, '08, whatever, two years ago after your lead after two rounds, what are about that round after that, how tough that was? 
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: I actually don't remember. I remember teeing off like in the last few groups or like the last one, but I don't remember really like how I played. 
 I don't know. I just love playing here. This golf course is amazing.

 Q. Is that a good thing, to be table forget like that?
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Yeah, I mean, obviously it is just to forget those kind of tournaments or rounds or shots. 

 Q. How do you think you're a little bit different player now from two years ago when we started seeing you out here with regularity?
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Probably just the way I play. I'm playing a lot more smart and not going for every shot. You know, more like the stupid shots, like going for the green over the water or taking the club that's going to be short. 
 You just have to play smart out here and, you know, make bogey or a worse score and just go for it.

 Q. Have you played where are Stacy or Becky Morgan who you'll be paired with tomorrow?
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Yeah, I actually played with Stacy in the Irish Open the first few days. Or maybe three days. I'm not sure. I've played with her a few times.

 Q. Was that the first time?
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Yeah, yeah. 
 And Becky, I've played with her. I'm not sure if it was practice rounds or not, but I've definitely played with her.

 Q. Good, comfortable pairing for you tomorrow? 
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Yeah, they're great players so I'm looking forward to it. Just going to try to play consistently like I did the last few days. 

 Q. What's it like having an amateur here that's one year older than you?
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Janie? She's awesome. I've talked to her quite a bit. We texted each other quite a bit last year. She's an amazing player and I she's going to Arizona State. 

 Q. (Indiscernible.)
ALEXIS THOMPSON: So, I mean, that's great for her. I heard she's a long hitter and she shot 5-under today.

 Q. She made the cut. 
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Yeah, I know. I told her that last night. I'm like, Just go and shoot a 66 tomorrow and you'll be good. Look what she did, so it's an amazing thing. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT