AVNET LPGA CLASSIC
April 30, 2011
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Alexis Thompson into the interview room. Congratulations on your 5-under round today. You're currently leading the tournament.   
 What kind of went right for you today in the round maybe different from the rounds before?   
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: I would just say my putting was pretty good today. I mean, I dropped a few 15 footers, so that definitely helped me out.   
 You know, I came out of a few golf shots, didn't really trust 'em, but my putting definitely helped.  
 MODERATOR: You have been in contention before. Last year at Evian you were up near the top of the leaderboard. How much did that help you coming into this and now as you head into tomorrow being at the top again?  
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: It definitely helps. All of these tournaments are learning experiences for me. I came into the last day at Evian probably a few more back, so I just went all in on every golf shot and didn't really worry about it.   
 I ended, like, coming back one, so it was a great experience. Just going to take one shot at a time tomorrow.  
 MODERATOR: This is your first LPGA tour event of the season. To be in contention and here on a sponsor's exemption, how nice is it to be up here in this position heading into Sunday?   
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Yeah, I'm just really grateful that I'm here. I mean, my first LPGA event on a sponsor's invite, I'm just really honored and I'm really happy to be here and not where the tornadoes are hitting. I'm just really grateful and I'm honored to be playing this tournament.  
 MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. Would you talk about your putting? Talking with you dad, he said that seemed to be the thing that was really most different from the previous two rounds. Was there extra confidence today? Pin placements? Just what was it about it?  
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Well, the pin placements are a little easy are today, that's for sure. Yesterday you just had to play to the middle of the green.  
 Me and my dad have been getting along really well, so I've just been trusting my reads on the greens and see where that goes. I made a few, so really grateful about that.  
  
  Q. I couldn't tell exactly how far you were away on 16, but the 12-, 15-foot range sum it up?   
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Yeah, I made a few of those, yeah, about 12-, 15-footers. I got up and down there for birdie.   
 You know, I hit a few good iron shots today. The course is in great shape for us. To play with Grace Park was amazing, too.   
  
  Q. You've gotten the lead, and you probably know you're close when you're coming up 18. Just to be able to get up and down from where you were, how much confidence does that give you going into tomorrow?  
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Yeah, I actually saw the leaderboard going into 18. I hadn't been looking at the leaderboard. I'm not trying to worry about that. I just glimpse at it.  
 But getting up and down there definitely helped. Side of the green wasn't that good, but I two-putted, so definitely take it. I'll hit a few more now and be good tomorrow.  
  
  Q. That brings me to my question: What were you thinking when the shot landed where it did on 18? Could have been trouble.   
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Yeah, I was just hoping, Don't go in the bunker. Don't go in the bunker. I mean, when I hit it, I was like, Wow, that was really bad. But, you know, it's golf. You hit shots like that, and you just have to take and go find and get up and down from wherever it goes.  
  
  Q. How different will it be for you if it holds the way it is right now, having the lead - not having the membership but having the lead - and going in on the final round?  
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Not really worried about that. Going into tomorrow just going all in on every golf shot. Play consistent like I did the last few days, and hopefully it'll all go well.   
 MODERATOR: Anymore questions? Thank you very much.   
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: You're welcome.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT