U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 10, 2010
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MODERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, we'd like to welcome Alexis Thompson, who had one of the best rounds of her life, I'm sure. She started with a bogey, ended with a bogey, had three birdies in between, and she said she just thought of tempo and posture.
 I mean, that's a heck of a round, Alexis.
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Thank you.
 MODERATOR: Tell us what you felt about it.
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: I felt I played pretty consistent. I was trying to trust my swing and not steering it around the course, like I sometimes do when I get a little nervous.
 You know, it just went really well for me. I just hit fairway and greens and just two-putted, which is really good out here. I had a lot of fun with my group, too.
 MODERATOR: You glad you finished and you don't have to come back early?
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Yeah, I'm really thankful that I don't have to come back at 7:30 to finish probably a hole.
 MODERATOR: Questions?

 Q. You mentioned the nerves. What was it like being out there in that situation today, third round of the Women's Open in contention?
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: It wasn't that bad. It was just my first tee shot. I don't know what I'm doing on that first tee, but I had the biggest chunk with a 3-wood on the first tee. It was so embarrassing.
 MODERATOR: How far do you think it went or how far didn't it go?
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Um, I think it probably went like 160 yards, so it wasn't a really good start. I just played consistent throughout that. My dad was giving me a lot of support throughout the day.
 MODERATOR: He was your caddie?
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Yeah.
 MODERATOR: Can you just tell me how long your birdie putt was on No. 8, the par-3, you made a 2?
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: It was about six feet.
 MODERATOR: And your putt on No. 16?
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: It was like 40 feet.
 MODERATOR: Whoa. How about 17?
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: 17 was about 10 feet, probably around there.
 MODERATOR: And then what happened on 18?
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: I actually -- I didn't hit that bad of a drive, it just caught one of the bunkers on the left and I had to pitch out like usual here.
 MODERATOR: On in three and two-putts?
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Yeah. I hit a good shot my third shot, I just didn't make the putt.

 Q. At any time during this round, did it dawn on you that you're playing with the last two No. 1s and beating them rather soundly?
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: No, I never thought of that. You know, I was just watching their games and how good they are and how good they putt. Just amazes me. They're just really consistent players.
 You know, I learned a lot from them.
 MODERATOR: Does any of that rub off on you when you're playing? Other players playing well, does that help your momentum?
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Yeah, it definitely helps playing with two great players. It just makes you play better, and being around them definitely made my game a little bit better today.

 Q. Did you come here this week thinking you could win the tournament? Do you think you can win the tournament now?
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Um, you know, I wasn't really thinking about that. I was just trying to come here and play my game, just try and do my best. If I did win, it would just be a bonus.
 I'm just gonna come out tomorrow and play like I did today and just play consistent. Pars are good.
 MODERATOR: You said you were a little nervous earlier in the week. How do you think you'll handle it tomorrow?
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: I think I'll be fine. I'm just gonna come out and just play my game, just not worry about it. I have nothing to lose out there. Just try and do my best and try and hit it well.

 Q. Is there maybe less pressure on you at this age, so young and just going out and learning at this point, or do you feel a little bit where you want to be able to win and want to be able to pull this out?
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Yeah, there's probably a little less pressure on me since I really have nothing to lose out here. But I'm just gonna try and have fun tomorrow and play my game. I'm just gonna try and do my best and shoot well.

 Q. Could you talk about what clubs you hit on 8 and 17, how you played those shots? Set the birdies up, please.
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Um, 8 was about 220 to the pin and like 200 to the front, and I actually took my 3-iron out and replaced it with a wedge. So I had to like rip on a 4-iron, because my hybrid went long every day. I hit it really good, and it went to like six foot. It landed on the front and just rolled out.
 And 16 I actually hit a really bad wedge shot. It went way left, and I happened to just make the putt. I was just trying to two-putt.
 17 I went for the green and it went over into the fringe and I just chipped up to like 12 feet and made the putt.

 Q. What did you hit off the tee on 17?
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Um, hybrid.

 Q. Do you feel even though you're 15 that in golf years you're older given how seriously you played the game since you were a young child?
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Yeah, I definitely think so. Just starting so young and just playing a lot of tournaments definitely has helped my experience level and maturity out on the course.
 I'm just really happy to be out here and playing here and playing against the best. I'm having fun.

 Q. Some golfers, when they start playing for pay, feel more pressure, not less. Why do you say you have nothing to lose?
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Um, I don't really know. I just -- I'm not thinking about the money. I'm just playing my game. I'm not playing for anything different. Just trying to do my best, trying to hit the best golf shots I can.

 Q. Could you give us some idea what we might expect tomorrow? Could end up being a shootout. Seems likes players go up the leaderboard and down again, back and forth. What do you think?
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: I'm just gonna try to play consistent tomorrow. Just making pars out here is good. And making your worst score a bogey out here, I think that's key.
 You know, the birdies are just bonuses out here. You know, you've got to be thankful for those. Just gonna try to play consistently.
 MODERATOR: You've only been a pro for a couple weeks, but are you a leaderboard watcher thus far?
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Yeah, I definitely look at the leaderboard quite a bit. Doesn't help they're on like every hole. I see them a lot, so it's hard not to see them.
 MODERATOR: You think you'll be checking that out tomorrow?
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Yeah, probably. I'm gonna try and just to play my game, though and not worry about others.

 Q. What was it like to look on the leaderboard and see so many American names?
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Yeah, it was great to see that. But, you know, there's a lot of foreign players. Yeah. You know, they're great players. You can't do anything about it. They're all great players to be out here and being on top of the leaderboard, so you can't do anything about it. I wish them all the luck tomorrow.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT