CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
August 27, 2019
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. We're here with Lexi Thompson. Third consecutive year in a row here at Portland, and you've shot 65 and two 68s in the opening round here. What about this golf course lets you settle in so quickly?
LEXI THOMPSON: Well, it's just a great golf course in general. I got to play a full 18 today, and it's probably in the best shape that I've ever seen it. The greens are rolling so quick, which we love to see, and it's just a great layout of a golf course. At the same time, you have to hit the fairways. It requires some really good tee shots. But at the same time, there's some challenging holes out there.
Q. What's the most challenging hole?
LEXI THOMPSON: That's a good question. I would say coming on the back nine, there's a few challenging ones. 16, 17 and 18 are really good holes.
Q. How do you keep your composure down the stretch facing those challenging holes?
LEXI THOMPSON: Well, I would say just the same mindset as at the beginning, focus on one shot at a time and commit to my targets out there and make sure I stay nice and relaxed.
Q. We have this tournament, then Solheim Cup in two weeks. How do you balance getting prepared for the Solheim Cup in a couple weeks versus competing out here?
LEXI THOMPSON: Well, I have this week and then I'll go home for about five days so I'll make sure to take a few of those days off, and slowly get back into it, start practicing, and then I'll leave Saturday, get there Sunday, and have that prep work with my teammates there.
Q. This is always a fun week; what is it about this event that keeps you coming back?
LEXI THOMPSON: I think just overall the tournament, how it's run and just how the community gets behind it and the support that we get from the event in general. It's definitely one of the best, and we get treated very well here. That's what we look forward to the most, the parties that they put on for us. Like it was TopGolf last night for Cambia, and tonight there's a pro-am party here at the golf course, which is very laid-back but at the same time very fun. Just what they do with the event, it's spot-on.
Q. Do you know anything about some of the off-course stuff that Cambia are doing this week, so they've got -- I know you're not a mother, but they've got the eco-friendly water bottles and the food bank collections, do you know anything about that?
LEXI THOMPSON: I had heard about it, but I don't know too much about it.
Q. How are you feeling coming into this week? We've wound up a long stretch, had some time off. We're coming to the end of the grind. How are you feeling coming up on the end of the season?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I feel good coming into this week. I played well last week in Canada. I started with a little bit of a slow start on the first day which got me too far behind to be able to win. But it was overall a good week, but this year has been a lot more golf for me to be played. There was a five-week stretch in there, a four-week stretch in there, which I'm not used to doing, but it was good. I felt like my game was in a good spot so I wanted to play a lot more. But yeah, it's slowing down. I only have about probably six or seven more events left, so I'm just going to pace myself out the rest of the year and see how it goes, take a few vacations in between, and that will be nice.
Q. What does the rest of your schedule look like?
LEXI THOMPSON: Well, I'll have this one, obviously, Solheim Cup, and then I'll go to Korea, and then Indianapolis. I'm not playing Texas. And then I'll play Japan and then Naples.
Q. I think other people were expecting maybe Cristie Kerr might be picked given that you've played with her in the past. What's your feeling on the partnerships? Have you had discussions with Juli or other players, any of the background on Solheim?
LEXI THOMPSON: It's such a different team than the last few I've been on. Basically most of the team is different, a lot of different personalities and games. She picked two veterans for the captain's picks. I knew she was in such a tough spot on who to pick. I was like I'm so happy I'm not Juli right now. We were there to help her in any way and give feedback, but there's only so much we can do. We were just focusing on making the team ourselves. We get along with the whole team, and whoever she was in between picking. So it wasn't a matter of personality. It was a matter of who she thought I guess game-wise or who she thought would bring the most to that team.
Q. It's a young team and you were perhaps the baby of the team in years gone by, but now you're one of the leaders. How does that feel?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, well, I mean, going into it before the picks, I was kind of the veteran going into my fourth Solheim Cup, but now I'm not. Now there's a few more veterans on the team, which is good. But yeah, definitely a lot of rookies on the team. But it's great to be going into my fourth one. It's an event that words can't even describe. I always say if you don't watch golf, you need to go to a Solheim Cup and you'll be hooked because it's an experience of a lifetime, I think.
Q. You haven't been to Scotland this year yet; are you looking forward to going back?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I'm looking forward to it. I've heard nothing but great things about Gleneagles. Never been there, and heard the resort is amazing, the golf course is incredible. Hopefully we get some decent weather. But I'm ready for whatever weather throws at us.
Q. Do you remember the last time you played in your waterproofs? Do you reckon you might need them there?
LEXI THOMPSON: Probably a British if I were to guess. I know I've played in -- is it Liverpool or -- two Britishes I remember playing in the worst weather possible, and it's a bit different because usually we just pack it in if it's raining that bad. It's a challenge, and that's what we expect when we go over there. We expect the bad weather, and good golf courses and always a challenge.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT