CURTIS CUP MATCH
June 13, 2010
Jennifer Johnson
Noreen Mohler
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RHONDA GLENN: Ladies and gentlemen, we have the American captain, Noreen Mohler, along with Alexis Thompson and Jennifer Johnson. And first of all, a hearty congratulations to you and your team. A wonderful week. These were your two biggest point-getters. Alexis was four points good and a half-point for the tie. Jennifer was three points good with one halve, and she sat out one match, and finished with three-and-a-half points. First, Noreen, could you just tell us your overall reaction to today's play and your victory? 
     NOREEN MOHLER: Well, it was a wonderful victory. Obviously we're very pleased and proud. And today's play was just a continuation of yesterday's play. I think we just went on the momentum. 
     And I think yesterday's play was huge. The matches were so close they really could have gone either way, and we just seemed to make a couple more putts than they did. 
     And I just can't stress enough how important -- how wonderful the play was yesterday, just birdies on top of birdies, and great shots on top of great shots, and just wonderful play from both teams. 
     RHONDA GLENN: All right. And Alexis, tell us about how you felt about the whole experience. I mean this is a lot for a 15-year-old.
     ALEXIS THOMPSON: Yeah, it was a great experience for me, pretty much a dream come true. I've always wanted to make this event, and just playing in it was an amazing experience for me. And after the first round, we were like, you need to get a few more putts to drop. That's for sure. And I think that's what happened yesterday and just it went into today. It just went well. 
     RHONDA GLENN: And Jennifer, you clinched the Cup for your side. Were you aware of that, that you clinched the Cup? Did somebody come up to you and tell you that you had done that? 
     JENNIFER JOHNSON: Yes. I don't really remember it that well, but yes. And then the scoreboard right by the green helped. 
     RHONDA GLENN: How did that make you feel, I did it for my country and my team? 
     JENNIFER JOHNSON: Yeah, it's cool how it felt winning the match point.
     RHONDA GLENN: All right. Questions? 

 Q. As it was going along and you began to probably realize it was going to go your way today, what were your emotions like out there? It sounded like you were pretty emotional. It's been a long year for you, I'm sure, getting ready for this, but what did it feel like for you today?
     NOREEN MOHLER: Well, it has been a long year and I can tell you today's June 13th; correct? It's been a year ago June 13th there was a huge reception here, at the first Cup kick-off party, so from that time through today it's just been a wonderful year. 
     And you know, the team that I had behind me was, I couldn't have asked for a better team. I have been saying all week that we have -- there's no attitudes on this team. There's no prima donnas on this team. The teammates really respect each other, and there's no No. 1 player. There's no lesser or No. 8 players. They're all No. 1 players, and the respect that they had for each other really came through, and we really gelled together as a team. 
     So yes, it's been an emotional time for me. I'm glad we won in Massachusetts. I'm glad Massachusetts made itself proud. It's a terrific venue being here at Essex County Club, and I remember reading in one of the golf magazines -- and I can't remember which one it was, that said that Essex County Club is a museum-quality gem. And that's just exactly what it was. It was a wonderful venue to play here and the girls really enjoyed the golf course. 
     So it was just fun being at home and fun having my family being able to be present as well. 

 Q. Alexis, you talk about being on the team is a dream come true for you. Can you talk about the first time you heard about the Curtis Cup?
     ALEXIS THOMPSON: Yeah, it was pretty much the year I heard about it, my dad was telling me about it. That's why I played a lot of amateur events so I could get picked for this team. So I did well in those, and when I got that phone call, it was just an amazing feeling, and I was just so grateful that I was picked and honored.

 Q. Are you fatigued at all? This is a big week for you, playing a lot of golf for three days. Will you sleep on the drive home?
     ALEXIS THOMPSON: We're actually flying, so, yeah, I'll probably take maybe tomorrow off, I think, maybe just hit a few shots, but that's pretty much it. I'll take the next few days easy, just do a few practice rounds and get ready for the tournament. 
     RHONDA GLENN: Did the Curtis Cup live up to what you expected? 
     ALEXIS THOMPSON: Oh, yes. It definitely did. I heard so many things about how great an event it is and how amazing an experience the golf course is to play, and it definitely lived up to my standards. And it was so much fun, and I can't even explain how much fun it was. 
     Just the team was great; the golf course is in great shape, and I couldn't ask for anything better. 
     RHONDA GLENN: How about you, Jennifer? Did it live up to what you had expected? 
     JENNIFER JOHNSON: Yeah, it was beyond my expectations. Yeah, we had a great team. I'm going to remember this my whole life, everything we did together, and this was so much fun. 
     RHONDA GLENN: Questions? All right. Thank you very much. Congratulations. 
     NOREEN MOHLER: Thank you. Thank you, Rhonda. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT