SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC
June 16, 2010
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MODERATOR: We're here with Alexis Thompson who's making her professional debut this week at the ShopRite LPGA Classic. Alexis, can you talk a little bit about how you're feeling and why you decided to turn pro this week.  
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Yeah, I'm really excited to play this week. I felt that my game was ready to take to the next level.   
 MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. Just give us a little background, reasons why you're turning pro at this point, why at this time.  
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: You know, it's always been my dream to turn pro. I'm so happy that I'm fulfilling my dreams. I feel my game is ready, and want to take it to the next level.   
 My family made this decision with me, and they were very supportive.  
  
  Q. Which of your experiences - and you've had quite a few - prepared you best for this moment?  
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: I would probably say all my LPGA events have helped me with experience. I've gotten better and better in my events, and I think that's just made me ready to make my decision.   
  
  Q. Was it a tough decision? Obviously there's pros and cons. You will be gaining a lot by turning pro, but you're also giving up some stuff. How tough was the decision and how much did you think about some of the stuff you'll be missing by playing professional?  
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: I don't feel that I'll being missing out on anything. This is my dream; this is what I've always wanted to do. Just to play against the best in the world and on these great golf courses, this is what I always wanted to do my whole life.  
  
  Q. Obviously you thought about this for months , and this is the first kind of day. What's it been like over the last week or so when you get to the edge of the pool but now you're in it? Have there been any surprises? Is it weird? Is it hard to sleep?  
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: No, I've just been really excited going from Curtis Cup to this event. It's just been a great two weeks for me. I've been looking forward to these weeks for like ever. So it's been a great experience, the Curtis Cup and coming here. It's been fun already, so...  
  
  Q. What sorts of things have you done or been able to do over the last couple of weeks that as an amateur that you like, that you enjoy, that you've had fun doing?   
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: I haven't really done anything, but like -- so far since the Pro-Ams, the two Pro-Ams have been a lot of fun for me here. I got two great groups and a lot of laughs, that's for sure.  
  
  Q. So when you're driving up in that...  
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Yeah, yeah.   
  
  Q. You know with the Red Bull on the hood and on your hat you're representing so much now: Puma, Cobra, Red Bull. How does that feel? You're kind of an employee now.   
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Yeah, I love all my sponsors. They just represent me really well. You know, young, fun, cool lifestyle. They both represent, Puma and Red Bull.   
 I love the Cobra clubs, and I have a feeling that it's just gonna make me a better player and a better athlete.   
  
  Q. This is your first professional day, but why not jump ahead to the future? Have you given any thought as to your future schedule and whether you'll petitioning the tour to join full time at some point?  
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: At some point, yes, but I haven't really thought about it. I'm just taking one tournament at a time so far.   
 I'm focusing on this week and trying to do well here, and then I've got a break and go straight to the Open. So I'll focus on one tournament at a time.  
  
  Q. Of the professionals you've been around, has there been any advice that's sort of stuck in your mind? Your brother Nicholas, a pro himself, has he given you any sort of pointers in the last couple weeks that have helped you so far, or you think will help you in the future?  
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Yes. I mean, some players out here have just been saying, Good luck to me and just, Keep it going. Good luck with your future. You've got a great year ahead of you and years to come.   
 My brother has always helped me with my game and my future. He says, Never let a week get to you even if you play bad. Just you can't let to get to you. Just got to go to the next one.  
  
  Q. I know you're homeschooled. When is the last time you went to school-school. What would be your kind of grade right now? What grade would you be in if you could gauge it that way?   
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Well, I left school when I was in fifth grade, so I started in sixth home schooling. It's great for me. I love it.   
 And I get strayed As. I get a few Bs. I don't know if that's what you're asking.   
  
  Q. What grade?  
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Oh, I'm going into tenth, yeah.   
  
  Q. Obviously you've played thousands of rounds of golf. Do you think Friday will feel any different? Will you be a little bit more nervous? Less nervous? What do you think your emotions will be like Friday on the first tee?  
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: I'll probably be a little nervous. Just gonna go out there and play my game and try to do my best. That's all I can do.   
  
  Q. You have kind of a striking outfit on with the colored shoe laces. Is there like an a Lexi line, kind of your signature thing, or hasn't been addressed yet?  
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Hasn't been addressed yet. That would be cool, though. (Laughing.) But I love their clothes.   
  
  Q. Do you have a driver's license yet?  
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: I have my permit. (Laughter.)  
  
  Q. So you could get pulled over driving up to the practice green?  
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Oh, yeah. Yeah, it was definitely loud, but it was really cool.   
  
  Q. Were players standing around? Were they close by?   
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: I was so like into the car. I was just amazed.   
  
  Q. It's a fun idea.   
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Yeah, it was really fun.   
 MODERATOR: Anymore questions? Thank you four your time, Alexis.   
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT