U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 2009
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. So today obviously a little 3, 4, 5 bogeys there, three in a row. Was today sort of a tough one?
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Yeah. I mean, I just didn't hit it good at all. You can't play this golf course if you're not hitting it good. It's just not going to go well. So that's what happened. 

 Q. Just talk about obviously you making the cut, being out here on Saturday and Sunday. You'll be in a major spotlight that you were in today. 
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Yeah, it means a lot. I mean, I wish I did a lot better, but maybe shoot under and go up a few.

 Q. As far as looking at what you wanted to accomplish at this Open, being in it last year, are you satisfied? I mean, obviously tomorrow you could finish and be even more satisfied. But through your first two days, were you satisfied with what you did accomplish?
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Yeah. I mean, I was in 9th place or 8th place going into today. I was really happy. Now I'm like 50th, probably. I don't even know. I went way down. But just shoot in the 60s maybe tomorrow.

 Q. Was it the pressure?
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: No. I wasn't nervous at all. My ball striking was just bad. Not like yesterday. 

 Q. Looking through the ropes and seeing girls your age and they're watching, you're out there competing, that's unbelievable to me for someone your age to be out there on such a big stage. 
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Yeah, that's pretty cool. There are a lot of young kids following me. It means a lot. It's really cool. 

 Q. Have you liked the crowd reception you've gotten? Seems like every hole somebody's either picking you up after a bad shot or... 
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Yeah, it helps you out. They're like, Keep it going. You're doing great. 
 It helps you out. Gets you motivated more.

 Q. Was the ball striking issues today the same as the first day, kind of heeling the driver, or was it something different?
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: No, my driver actually wasn't that bad. In the beginning it was, but it wasn't really my driver. It was my irons. 

 Q. Is there something you do after a tough round like this to try and pick yourself back up?
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Go hit balls. Try to figure it out. Maybe try to hit a few before it rains. 

 Q. What are your plans for tomorrow? How do you prepare?
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Just work on it tomorrow morning or right now and just be positive and confident, just go out there and just try to shoot well.

 Q. Where do you go from here? What's your next event?
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: I have in a week the U.S. Girls Junior.

 Q. What's one thing you might take away from this Open that maybe you didn't learn your previous times out here?
 ALEXIS THOMPSON: Well, this is the first year I made the cut. It's pretty exciting.
 I mean, just play consistent. In an Open, pars are really pretty good, especially out here. The course is really hard. So pars are good, and if you just play consistent you're probably really good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT