U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2007
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RHONDA GLENN:  I heard you say on The Golf Channel, you just didn't play as well today.  Can you pinpoint any reasons?  I mean, were you tired, first of all? 
 ALEXIS THOMPSON:  No, I wasn't tired.  I mean, my putting was really bad today, and I just couldn't get the speed control right.  I don't know what was up with me. 
 RHONDA GLENN:  Were the greens any different do you think than earlier in the week, or same speed, you just had a little trouble with your touch? 
 ALEXIS THOMPSON:  Yeah, my hands, like I usually break my wrists when I putt and that's what gets my putts off-line.  They went straight left and they would just bounce everywhere. 
 RHONDA GLENN:  So you were breaking your wrists and pulling them everywhere? 
 ALEXIS THOMPSON:  And then when I did it at the end I was thinking about that. 
 RHONDA GLENN:  I can tell you're a little upset but look what you've done.  We've never had a 12-year-old make to match play, never had a 12-year-old make it to the second round, never had a 12-year-old make it to the third round, never had a 12-year-old make it to the quarterfinals.  That's four big victories.  How does that seem to you? 
 ALEXIS THOMPSON:  I mean, yeah, I'm really happy how far I made it in this.  I mean, I wish I would have won today's match, but I was playing so good each and every day, and I was going to have on off-round sooner or later. 
 RHONDA GLENN:  Did you know much about Ha Na? 
 ALEXIS THOMPSON:  Yeah, I spent time with her at the Open when the rain delays happened.  We had a lot of fun.  I knew she was really good and long, and she didn't make a mistake out there.  She went for pretty much every par 5. 
 RHONDA GLENN:  Were you down early in the match?  Weren't you 1-down after two or three holes? 
 ALEXIS THOMPSON:  I was 1-down after four. 

 Q.  You were 2-down after five. 
 ALEXIS THOMPSON:  Yeah. 
 RHONDA GLENN:  You really haven't been down.  That was on unfamiliar position for you this week.  How did that feel? 
 ALEXIS THOMPSON:  I mean, I was down, and you always try to get back up, but I mean, I just didn't hit it good today.  I hit some really ugly shots.  But it happens. 
 RHONDA GLENN:  How about the pressure of -- all the press coverage you've received, big picture in USA Today, big story, Golf Channel is here, starting to attract some spectators.  What did you think about that? 
 ALEXIS THOMPSON:  I mean, I definitely like seeing people come out and just watching me and my fans and everything, just like little girls come out and everything.  I've gotten used to the cameras.  I mean, it's just like a normal round. 
 RHONDA GLENN:  Did you and your dad get along okay out there today? 
 ALEXIS THOMPSON:  Yeah (laughing).  I mean, I was pretty frustrated, though.  I just don't know what happened to me, I really don't. 

 Q.  Between being down a little bit and as well as she played, especially on the front nine, were you pressing a little bit do you think? 
 ALEXIS THOMPSON:  What did she shoot, like 32 or 33 on the front nine? 

 Q.  Yeah. 
 ALEXIS THOMPSON:  Man, I knew I could make a couple birdies on the back nine coming in and maybe put some pressure on her.  But once I got to 10 I plunked it in the water; didn't even know that was possible on that hole.  I gave her that hole but I won the next one.  And then I could have won the next one, but I didn't chip good. 

 Q.  Is there anything in particular you'll take away from this week or something special that you learned by being out here and playing in this tournament? 
 ALEXIS THOMPSON:  I mean, probably just match play, if anything, just probably never give up once you're down because you can always come back, and because you only lose one stroke on each hole. 

 Q.  Do you think you're a better player since the Open? 
 ALEXIS THOMPSON:  Not really, I mean, it was a bonus for me to make it there.  I was playing really good, and that was just a really big bonus for me to make it there. 

 Q.  You talked the other day about it's been a long time since you've been home.  In a way it'll be nice to get home, won't it? 
 ALEXIS THOMPSON:  Yeah, it definitely will.  I'm ready to go home, but I wish I would have still done better in this match at least.  But I mean, she's good. 

 Q.  Ha Na outdrove you consistently.  That hasn't really happened this week, either; you've been either even or ahead usually.  Does that affect you mentally? 
 ALEXIS THOMPSON:  No, not really.  Like my dad says to me, if somebody is outdriving you by a lot, don't try to outdrive them because then your swing will get out of control and will get all over the place. 

 Q.  So that didn't bother you? 
 ALEXIS THOMPSON:  No. 
 RHONDA GLENN:  What did your dad say to you after you lost? 
 ALEXIS THOMPSON:  I don't know, just keep your head up, and you did great.  You should be happy how far you made it. 
 RHONDA GLENN:  You have been very gracious to come in here every day and really show a lot of maturity and poise for a 12-year-old, and we're very appreciative of that.  We wish you well, and I'm sure we'll see you down the road and maybe in the winner's circle pretty soon. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT