KIA CLASSIC
March 28, 2021
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Lexi, tied for second.  That's got to be a good way to finish up your week before you head to the desert.  How are you feeling right now?
 LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, I feel good about it.  My game was in a good spot.  I just missed a few putts that I needed out there today to make the move that I needed.
 But Inbee played great, so she was a tough chase.  But I'm just happy with where my game is going into next week.
 Q. Desert, I know one of your favorite places to play.  What are your goals for the week heading in?  What are you working on?
 LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, absolutely love going to the ANA Inspiration.  It's my favorite golf course that we get to go to.  There are some things that I need to tighten up in my golf game going into next week.  I have a full three days, practice rounds, and some practice time to get it ready.
 So really just tighten up the a little bit of putting and get my ball striking even better.
 Q. You're definitely well in a veteran in your career.  How do you carry momentum from one week to the next and how does that vary from when you were just starting out your career?
 LEXI THOMPSON:   Well, when I first started out I wasn't able to play a full schedule, so it was maybe play one week and then have off a lot of weeks.  So it was hard to get momentum.
 As I play more and more weeks back to back it's definitely a lot easier, but it's important to also take the rest time as well because it is mentally draining, even on a regular week, not a major week.
 So I'll take tomorrow easy.  I'll play nine but later if the afternoon.  So get some sleep and just rest time and take it into next week.
 Q. And hopefully later in the afternoon so it's not too hot.
 LEXI THOMPSON:   Yes, exactly.
 Q. Thankfully it will be 30 degrees cooler than it was last year.
 LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, that's very true.
 Q. Which part of your game are you most pleased with right now?
 LEXI THOMPSON:   You know, honestly, probably just my mental state.  I know that's not any part of my game, but I say golf is 80% mental at least.  Just staying positive out there.  You know, I could have gotten downhill on a few holes and it helped to have Jack on the bag and keep me positive out there.
 And just keep going.  Just try to stay positive and know that I can pull off the shots and make birdies coming in.  So that's what I've been working on the most.
 Q. How do you work on your mental game?
 LEXI THOMPSON:   It's tough.  For me, I think my whole life has been such a grind of training and getting ready for events and that's all I've known my whole life.  So it's important to find other things that balance out my life, like getting into the Lexi Skincare that's coming out and just have other passions of mine to take my mind off golf and not be all 100% in on that.
 So I think that's important, just have fun and enjoy something else so it's not all in one.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT