MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY DANA
July 11, 2019
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 5-under today after a two-week break.  Is it easier for you to come back after a two-week break (indiscernible)?
LEXI THOMPSON: It always helps coming off two weeks.  I played five weeks straight before that and really I've never played five weeks in a row in my career.  It was definitely different for me.
But two weeks off just relaxing, hanging out with my family and friends, just making sure I get that relaxing time was much needed.  I felt good about my game coming into this week.
Q. This is a course a lot of players refer to as one of the best, if not maybe the best, truest test of the entire year.  It takes a little bit of the power out of your game.
LEXI THOMPSON: Uh-huh.
Q. But it's a course you feel suits your strength.
LEXI THOMPSON: Well, it's a great golf course in general.  It's always in perfect shape for us.  I think that's what we look forward to as players, just a course that's in great shape.
Definitely requires a little bit of holding back with the driver.  I hit one driver today and that was on 18, and then I went through the fairway.  I guess I should have hit 3-wood.
It's just a great golf course.  Definitely tests your game, and I think you can make birdies out there for sure.
Q. Just now starting a four-week stretch that includes two majors.  When you embark on a stretch like that, does it make it a little easier to keep a little pressure off yourself?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, definitely.  Ending on two majors in a four-week stretch, I'm definitely taking the first two weeks not as hard on myself.
And then next week pairing up with Kerr will be fun in the team event.  Just testing out my game these first two weeks, but at the same time I really want to play well.
I practiced a lot in the few weeks I had off, so it's a good test.
Q. As the afternoon groups tee'd off the wind picked up and the greens got a little firmer.  How did that affect your game today?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, the course definitely firmed up just from beginning of the week.  Monday it was a lot softer then.  Wind picked up probably to about ten at most today.  Didn't affect my game too much.  It was just a lot more thinking probably off the tee and I hit a lot more 3-woods than drivers.
Q. To come off 18 with the score you have, how confident are you after one round?
LEXI THOMPSON: I feel good.  I hit it great today.  Made some good putts.  Didn't get the breaks I wanted to on the last few holes.  It was pretty unfortunate.  It is what it is.  That's golf.
Overall I'm very happy with where my game is at and how today went.  Just going to take it into tomorrow.
Q. This course has always been so good to you.  You feel like this could be another great weekend?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I love just being here in Toledo in general.  This golf course is in great shape always for us much.  As players we really look forward to coming to this event, just the way it's run and the fan base we get here.  It's means a lot to us.
Yeah, I'm just going to take it one shot at a time.  Today went great, so I'm just looking forward to the next few days.
Q. How has this course played to your strengths?
LEXI THOMPSON: To my strengths?  You know, it holds back on my game a little bit because I don't get to hit too many drivers.  At the same time, I hit a lot of 3-woods, which isn't too far behind my driver.
It's just a great golf course in general.  It's a little bit shot making on a few of those holes and it requires good tee balls.  I think it's a good test for anybody's game.
Q. Do you feel like at 66 could have been a 64, 63?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah.  I was talking about that with my caddie, Benji.  Last two holes, just with two par-5s, and then I just didn't get very good breaks.  I didn't think I could go through 18's fairway with driver being 290 into the wind.  I guess with it firming up and everything, just bounced out too much.
But it is what it is.  You know, never complain with 65.  It was a good day.  It was perfect weather.  No complaints here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT