MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY DANA
July 14, 2019
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Lexi, was today just a day where you have to tip your cap to the play of Sei Young Kim?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I definitely do.  She played some amazing golf.  There was a stretch there mid-round where she stuck every shot and birdied every hole finished well.   
I didn't have my best balls striking day, but 5-under; finished well.  She played amazing, and it's very well deserved.   
 Q.  Have you been waiting a long time to try and hit that drive on 18?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yes, the first two days I was so mad because I kept on going through that bunker, and then I finally made my way on the left side and to that little speed slot over there.   
 Q.  You took a little bit of a break; now you have two back-to-back majors.  Does this put you, do you think, in the right mindset with the right amount of confidence?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, for sure.  This is a great tournament just in general.  I love coming here, and the course is always in good shape for us.   
It's a good tune up for the team event next week and then the two majors coming up.  It's good to see where my game is at.  It was a nice few weeks off, but at the same time I'm really looking forward to next week as well.   
 Q.  When you're going up against person in your own pairing there that's just blistering the course, take me through someone a few shots back?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, she played some amazing golf today.  I've played with her a lot just in my career, and she's an amazing talent.  Showed today.  She went through a stretch on the front nine or going into the back where she stuck every shot.  Had under five feet about four times in a row, so it was a very well deserved win by her.   
I tried to catch her.  I kind of made a run.  Too late, but it's okay.   
 Q.  I saw a number of your holes, not all of them, but the ones I saw you left a number of putts short.  Would you agree with that and was that kind of how it went today?  
LEXI THOMPSON: I mean, I guess.  Yeah, it wasn't my best putting or ball striking display really, but that's golf.  I hit it great and putted well the whole three days, and so it's hard to top it with a fourth.  Shot 5-under and had a great finish, and I'm very happy with it.   
 Q.  Any other year 18-under would've won this thing.  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah.   
 Q.  Is that the tip of the cap to the competition, and what do you feel about your number that you put up?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I would've taken 20-under coming into the week and not tee'd it up and said, All right, I'm good, and would've expected a win.   
But you know what?  That just shows how well she played.  Made a lot of birdies out there.  She's just a great competitor.  Long off the tee and great with her irons and rolls it unbelievably.   
 Q.  Is a tournament with that score and a second place finish you can walk away with a huge smile on your face?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah.  Obviously we all want to win.  Like I said, she played great golf.  On top of it, I'm very proud of just my attitude this whole week.  I could have faltered today wit my little bit of a start and just not ball striking it the way I wanted to or the way I have the last three days.   
But I stayed in and stayed positive.  I just had a great day on the golf course with my caddie, Benji, just every day really.   
 Q.  Couple second place finishes here in recent years.  Does that make you want to keep coming back to get over the hump?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Honestly I just love coming to this event in general.  Judd Silverman, tournament director, he just treats me so amazing here.  Just the tournament itself is so well-run.  Course is always in great shape for us, and we just get more and more fans every single year.   
That's what we want to see.  I think that's why we all come here.   
 Q.  With a major coming up, what does this second place finish do for your confidence moving forward?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Definitely helps my confidence.  You know, this is the first week out of a four-week stretch.  Pair it up with Cristie Kerr next week in the team event and then two majors.   
It's a great just tune up just to see where my game is at.  I knew it was in a spot, so just going to try to keep that going.  Majors are a very long week, so I am just going to take it one shot at a time.  Probably play a little tougher than here.   
But it'll be a good two weeks.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT