MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY DANA
July 12, 2019
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How nice is it to follow up a solid opening round with another good round on Friday?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, it was good.  Overall I just took yesterday's round and came into today with the same confidence and same mindset.  Just firing at pins and focusing on one shot at a time.   
I feel good with where my game is at.  It was perfect weather.  Couldn't ask for anything better.   
 Q.  Talk about the crowds out here that you see so early on a Friday morning following you.  
LEXI THOMPSON: It's great to see.  That's one thing I always say coming here to Toledo.  You always get a great fan base, and that's what we want.  We want to grow the game and see women's golf grow.  It's great to see.   
 Q.  What's your game plan for the weekend to try to lift the trophy this week?  
LEXI THOMPSON: The same mindset that I did the last two days.  Try not to overdo it.  Go into every shot firing at the pins and just really committing to my shots and my lines out there.   
I think that's what I've done the past few days and just being confident.   
 Q.  Obviously with the position you put yourself in, how happy are you going into the weekend?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Very happy.  I'm sure probably won't be leading after the day is done, but still did what I could do.  Like I said, I played some great golf today and yesterday.  Just going to try continue with that into the weekend and see where it takes me.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible.)  
LEXI THOMPSON: I like to think it's the hard work I've put into it.  I've been working extremely hard just on my game in general.  At the same time, off the golf course I've been trying to be a normal 24 year old, relaxing and having fun with friends and family and making sure I get that down time.   
It's very much needed, and I think that's helped my overall mindset on and off the golf courses.   
 Q.  Posting that low number in the morning, now you're going to have all afternoon off and presumably most of tomorrow morning off as well.  Was that the strategy, to go as low as possible this morning to give yourself like almost a day break?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Well, I wasn't thinking about the time off that I was going to have.  But, yeah, I mean, I go into every round just wanting to shoot as low as I can.  That's what we all try to do.   
Like i said, we just focus on one shot at a time and see where that goes.  Yeah, now I have an afternoon to go work out, relax, get a good dinner, and relax tomorrow morning.   
 Q.  What do you think about for dinner?  
LEXI THOMPSON: I have no idea.  No idea.  We'll see.   
 Q.  Considering how well you're playing, feel like the last two weeks you took off are paying off for you?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, well, it was very much needed.  I played five weeks straight before that and was just mentally drained.  I had two majors in that five-week stretch, and really my whole career I've never played five weeks straight.   
It was a lot different for me, and I needed those two weeks off to unwind.  I didn't touch a club for the first week, and then slowly got back into it the second week.  Just didn't really over-practice.  Just feel a lot more refreshed.   
 Q.  You said you were able to fire at some pins today.  That come from how receptive the greens were yesterday?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, they were a little bit firmer yesterday.  At the same time, there were a little bit more accessible pins yesterday, as well as today.   
Yeah, you have to pick and choose.  They tucked a few today that you just, you know, take the 20-footer for birdie or whatever and just take your par.   
But at the same time, there a lot of birdie holes out there.  You just have to hit the fairway and get a good iron in to maybe a wedge.   
 Q.  9-under par.  Good, clean scorecard today.  Four birdies; no bogeys; you've only missed two greens in the last two days.  How good are you hitting it right now?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I'd like to think I'm hitting it pretty well, but I am just really just trying to focus on one shot at a time and do my routine and picking out small targets.   
I think that's when I hit it the best out there.   
 Q.  What is it about this golf course that puts you in a good frame of mind and brings out best in your game?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Well, just coming to Toledo in general.  It's a great tournament overall, but the golf course is in amazing shape for us, as usual.  It's a great test of golf.  Some of the tee shots you really have to commit to the lines.  I play it pretty aggressively.  I don't hit too many drivers, but at the same time, I take aggressive lines with my 3-wood.   
 Q.  Are you surprised at all that you've put it together so quickly after the two weeks off and find yourself at the top of the board?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Honestly, a lot of people think taking two weeks off you come back rested, but I needed the two weeks off.  I played five weeks in a row before that.  If anything, I think it helps athletes in general to just unwind and let the body relax and get ready for another four-week stretch.  So I needed those two weeks off.   
 Q.  Are you saying you're getting smarter as you're getting older?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yes, I'm learning.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT