SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
June 7, 2019
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How would you compare last week's course to this one?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, last week's course compared to this one is totally different.  This course is definitely a lot shorter, but I still get to hit a good amount of drivers and 3-woods, but at the same time it's a little bit more placement than just taking wedges into the greens.  But it's in great shape and just happy to be here and went well today.
Q. Also with the putter, the claw, the second week now you've been using it.  How much more comfortable are you starting to feel with it?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I'm starting to feel very comfortable with it.  I practiced a good amount these last few days just trying to get more comfortable with it, and you know, I feel good with it.  I started with it Tuesday of last week.  My brother convinced me to go to it, and I am sticking with it.
Q. You know the scores are going to be low here.  You guys had one bogey in your entire group.  Is that the mindset from the beginning, from the first tee of this event?
LEXI THOMPSON: I really think so, yeah.  This is a very gettable golf course.  A lot of birdies out there because it is playing a good bit shorter, I think.  The defense on this golf course is basically the wind.  If it gets blowing out here, it definitely plays a little harder.  But a lot of wedges into the greens, so definitely a lot of birdie opportunities.
Q. (On the state of her game.)
LEXI THOMPSON: The great thing about golf, I've learned my strengths, my weaknesses and what I need to do, what I need to work on, and you know, that's what you learn along the way.  Through the failures and through the successes.
Q. The First Tee has nine core values and life lessons.  What's a life lesson that you've learned playing golf?
LEXI THOMPSON: I don't really know.  I mean, honestly everything.  I've learned so much about myself, just the fight I have in me, the determination, the hard work and everything that goes into it.  Basically everything.  You learn so much about yourself and what kind of person you are in the tough situations and in the good situations.
Q. How was it to put last week behind you and start focusing on this week?
LEXI THOMPSON: It was good.  Last week was tough.  It was just -- it's so intense and such a long week.  It's very draining.  A lot of people don't realize how long that week is with all the prep work going into it and then how long the rounds are and how tough the course plays.  Coming here I took two days off and then I just practiced Wednesday, and I played my 18-hole pro-am yesterday and just went into today.  It's working out for me so far.
Q. This is a 54-hole tournament and there's a lot of low numbers up there.  How important was it to go low early with this being a three-round event?
LEXI THOMPSON: It is very important, especially a three-round tournament that usually scores go very low.  It's important to put a good low number out the first day, so puts us in good position for the next two.
Q. You've admitted some things about your personal life.  Are you in a better place now in terms of social media?  I know you were dealing with some family health issues.
LEXI THOMPSON: I was.  My mom is healthy now, but it's life.  You have to go through things and you have to be tough through them.  I'm working on myself every single day and getting better.  It's a process.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT