KIA CLASSIC
March 27, 2021
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. You took advantage of some really good scoring conditions out there today.  We all couldn't help but notice there were a number tees moved up to make some excitement out there.  How did you like the setup out there today?
 LEXI THOMPSON:   It was different.  There were a lot tees moved up.  Coming into this golf course I don't hit a lot of drivers to being with.  I hit a lot of 3-wood and driving irons, so with the tees moved up made me think about it even more.
 There was a few more driving irons off tees.  But there was a lot of birdies out there and we couldn't have gotten any better weather, so definitely had to take advantage.
 Q. Obviously your game looks like it's rounding into some really good form coming into next week.  Is that something that you're paying close attention to?
 LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, of course.  ANA Inspiration is my favorites event or our schedule.  I just absolutely love going there, and that golf course is amazing, and I'm sure it'll be in great shape for us.
 I work hard for every single event.  We had a few weeks off coming into this week and I put in the work, so I just want to see to pay off.  Even if it doesn't, I'm going to continue to do so until I see it pay off.
 Q. When people talk about how much work you put in, what have you been doing work-wise to see this pay off?
 LEXI THOMPSON:   Everything.  Training twice a day in the gym.  On the golf course, I been practicing my short game a ton.  Working on chipping and putting at least two hours, two, three hours a day.
 Just trying to get more consistent with my ball striking as well.  Making sure that my bad shots aren't as bad.  But, I mean, they still come out.  We're not robots, so we're going to hit bad ones.
 Just recovering and being in a better place I think in the golf course for me mentally is the big key.
 Q. A nice solid 6-under.
 LEXI THOMPSON:   Thank you.
 Q. Really dialed it in.  Hit 17 greens; just missed that last one by about three inches.  Just take us through the day.  Seemed like you had everything dialed in.
 LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, it was overall just a great day.  We had amazing scoring conditions, perfect weather for us.  Just tried to take advantage of that.  They moved some of the tees up so I knew I had to make a lot of birdies to make any type of move today.
 But I just tried to have fun out there.  Go into every shot really just committing.  I worked on it with my ball striking on the range before, and just try to hit more solid shots and be more committed out there.
 Q. The putting greens are obviously a talking point and just how challenging they are to read.  Do they get any easier the more you look at them over a week?
 LEXI THOMPSON:   Not really.  They're so tough to read.  I mean, yes, read-wise as well with the break, but the speed is the tricky part, too.  You can get some big breakers out there, but just really matching up the speed and the line is really key.
 But they're tough.  I'm definitely looking at the greens book as much as I can.
 Q. Have they changed at all in terms of firmness throughout the week with the weather changing as much as it has?
 LEXI THOMPSON:   I would say the fairways have definitely gotten firmer.  Greens-wise, still pretty receptive.  Few of the greens, especially hitting downhill, they bounce out quite a bit and then they stop.
 But they're rolling a lot better than years past, so last few years they've gotten better, which is great for us.
 Q. You put yourself into a nice position for a Sunday run.  I think Nasa came back from a decent amount two years ago to win it.
 LEXI THOMPSON:   Uh-huh.
 Q. How excited is it early on in the season to get right back near the top of the leaderboard like that?
 LEXI THOMPSON:   Yeah, it's always great to be somewhat in contention, I guess.  I'm just happy with how I played today, and hopefully take that into tomorrow.
 I've been working extremely hard in my off weeks, and I just want to see to pay off. Just trying to go out on the golf course and have a better time out there and be more relaxed and just let my true talent show.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT