U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
May 30, 2019
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Lexi, how key were those par saves on 11 and 15 this morning for you?
LEXI THOMPSON: They were very important.  Any par save out there is extremely important.  11, it was my second hole.  I knew it was blowing at least 15 to 20 when we got there.  Hit a great shot.  Just the wind killed it.  Came up short, hit a great pitch and had 12 feet or so, made it.  Par on that hole, you're running.  You're running with a smile on your face.
It was overall a good day out there.  It's long rounds.  You have to stay in it.
Q. The wind obviously blew this morning.  How much more difficult is the golf course when the wind blows versus when it doesn't?
LEXI THOMPSON: It's a lot different.  You expect it to blow a lot in the afternoon. But  when we got out here , it was blowing a lot for the first few holes.  This course plays a lot more tricky with that wind up.  There's a lot more thought process into each and every shot going into the greens.
Just keeping it low off the tee shots and getting it into the fairway, giving yourself an opportunity to hit into these greens.
Q. You didn't miss a fairway on your first nine, the back nine.  Missed a few on your second nine.  Pleased with your ball striking right now, heading into tomorrow's round?
LEXI THOMPSON: I am.  Overall, I think I hit it great today.  The few par 5s, I probably should have birdied, like, the last one, but they were just awkward numbers.  And then I missed the fairway on one of the par 5s on my second nine.  So I didn't really give myself an opportunity for birdie.
Overall, very happy with my ball striking.  Left a few out there, but that's an Open.
Q. How do you feel about this golf course hosting the U.S. Women's?  Do you feel it's a good fit for this tournament?
LEXI THOMPSON: I feel it's been a great fit for the U.S. Women's Open.  I think it's great for spectators.  It's great hospitality for everybody out here.
For us, I think it's a really good layout.  It can definitely play long, especially if the wind gets up.  I get to hit a lot of drivers.  So it definitely plays challenging on a few of those holes, and they can put some tees back or move them forward on a few that are playing challenging and need to be moved up.
Yeah, it's a great layout and it's in absolutely perfect shape for us.
Q. Got the afternoon tee time tomorrow.  Got a nice gap here.  Would you rather have this setup you have now, or would you rather go late on Thursday, early Friday, or does it matter to you?
LEXI THOMPSON: I honestly -- I think for this week, with the heat and everything, I think it's actually good the time wave that I got, just because you're able to relax and be refreshed for the second round, rather than going out in the afternoon and not getting much time to be refreshed for the morning round the second day.
But as long as you stay hydrated and make sure you don't exhaust yourself out there, it's definitely key.
Q. What was the most difficult thing for you today about the course or your game?  What was the most difficult today?
LEXI THOMPSON: The most difficult thing, I would just say, in the beginning was the wind.  I think that was the most challenging thing from today.
From my game, I would say I just left a few putts out there, but I was stroking it very well.  Just half a ball off in read or anything like that.  So overall happy with my game.  You know it's always going to be challenging in a Major Championship.
Q. Somebody goes home with a 65, do you go wow, there's some room for really good rounds out here?
LEXI THOMPSON: Is there a 65?
Q. Yeah.
LEXI THOMPSON: Oh, shows how much I looked.  Yeah, I mean, it's out there.  You just have to really take advantage of a few of the par 5s that you can reach or some of the easier holes where the pin locations were gettable, and then you just have to make sure you get par on those very challenging holes.
So it's out there, but that's a really good round.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT