U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 2, 2019
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How would you assess how things played out today?  
LEXI THOMPSON: It was a bit of a rough day.  Definitely wasn't my ball striking.  I got off to a pretty bad start.  Just overall wasn't as comfortable, I guess, over my shots.  But I finished with a birdie, which is always nice.   
And, yeah, I think it was just a matter of a little bit more uncomfort over today.  I don't really know why the reasoning, but it's golf.  It happens.  Last day of a U.S. Women's Open Championship.   
 Q.  Was it difficult to sort of, after that start, to sort of recycle and come back and start over?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Well, it's tough to get back once you're 2 over through three, whatever I was.  It's hard to get that back.  But, I mean, I was staying in it.  I had birdie chances, and I hit some great putts.  And I had some really hard putts for birdie today.  They were breaking a ton.   
Then with the wind, the course is playing tough.  With the hole locations and the wind gusting and moving all different types of directions, I felt like I took forever on some shots.   
 Q.  Was it tougher today than the first few days?  The course setup and the conditions?  
LEXI THOMPSON: I believe it was.  Just some of the hole locations, I think that was the hardest part.  Some of the pins were just impossible to even get 25 feet within, and, I mean, like No. 3, I believe, I hit a great shot, and it ended up over in the bunker.  I'm like okay.   
So it's hard to deal with, but it's a U.S. Women's Open Championship.  You kind of expect that.  Plays tough.  Hole locations are tough, and the conditions are on top of it.  It's a Major.   
 Q.  Jayee had similar struggles today.  What were the conversations like out on the course during it all?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Well, that was the first time I played with Jaye in probably four to five years, since a Canadian Open a while back.  I grew up with Jaye, and we're really good friends and she's been playing great golf, obviously, this week.  It's great to watch her play.   
She was very steady, hit a lot of great shots too.  It's just, if you hit one bad shot here and there, you're going to bogey, and that's what we kind of did.  We let a few shots get away, and you walk off with a few bogeys here and there, and it's tough to get back on the golf course.   
 Q.  If they asked you, would you recommend having another Major here at the Country Club of Charleston?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Overall, I thought it was a great golf course for a Major Championship.  It played very hard.  It's a second shot course, but I think it's all in the pin locations and if the wind gets up.  I think that's what makes it great for a Major Championship, but then it plays very difficult, which it did.  I mean, 7 under is going to win or something like that.  So it showed how tough it was.   
 Q.  Are you going to stick with the club?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I think so.  I mean, I'm in a five-week stretch right now.  So it's tough to actually grind and work on something, but I'll work on it for the few practice rounds before New Jersey next week.  Yeah, I'm going to stick wit.  I do really like it.  It's a matter of getting a lot more comfortable with it.   
 Q.  You were solid.  You weren't making a lot, but you weren't hitting bad putts.  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I hit some great putts today.  I hit a few that weren't so great, a few of my lags on the back nine.  On the front nine, I hit some great putts that I thought were in.  I just misread them by a half a ball, and that's enough.   
 Q.  Over the course of six days, how debilitating is the heat?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah.  Well, I'm from Florida so the heat didn't really get to me.  I think it's just overall the week in general, how long and how much of a grind it is.  It didn't really get to me until today.   
It's just long.  A lot of people don't realize how much goes into this week with the two to three practice rounds, the prep work around the greens and then training on top of it and four days of just great golf to win this thing or just to be on the top.   
 Q.  Lexi, what do you take away from the week?  
LEXI THOMPSON: I would just say there's a lot of positives to take with where my game's at.  Today wasn't my best ball striking, but the other three days, I think I hit it great with what I've been working on.  So I'm definitely going to stick with that.   
With my putting, the few changes I've made.  I think overall, there's just a lot of positives.  I feel very good with my game right now, and a matter of being more confident and getting more comfortable with the few changes I've made.  It was a good week.  I had my whole family here.  I couldn't have asked for anything better.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT