PURE SILK CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY VISIT WILLIAMSBURG
May 22, 2019
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How were the two weeks off for and you what did you get into practice-wise?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, it was really nice.  Yeah, two weeks off is always really nice, especially after a little bit after stretch.   
But I had Mother's Day and then had my nephew's little birthday party, so definitely kept busy.  And then practiced obviously keeping the game intact.   
Didn't get to the Bahamas like I said I would.  I definitely just made time for myself.  Little spa days and stuff like that just to reward myself for a good finish there in San Fran.  Just be relaxed on my weeks off.   
Now I'm in a five-week stretch, so getting ready for this.   
 Q.  Yeah.  How do you feel heading into this week and coming back to a place where you've been successful?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I feel good coming into this week.  I love this tournament in general.  It's a great golf course and just a very well run tournament.   
Looking forward to this week.  I always do.  Been practicing a lot.  It's a big stretch.  Two majors in five weeks.  Definitely just going to pace myself on the practice rounds.   
 Q.  Yeah, how do you approach a week like that and kind of keep the pressure off maybe?  
LEXI THOMPSON: In majors?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
LEXI THOMPSON: I mean, it's a lot different.  Those are usually longer weeks.  There is a lot more prep work and practice around the greens and everything.   
It's more like a week like this before it just to pace yourself.  Just do easy practice rounds, not really overwork yourself.  You're going to be playing usually two practice rounds in four days.  You want to f take it easy going into an Open.   
 Q.  Do we have Leo here with you this week?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Uh-huh, he's at my hotel.   
 Q.  Will he be with you the whole five-week stretch?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yep.   
 Q.  Just wanted to ask you about the -- I know you went to visit the Army base.  
LEXI THOMPSON: Uh-huh.   
 Q.  How was that?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, it was amazing.  Just getting to be around the men and women that serve our country, it's so special.  Words don't describe it.  They thanked me for being there, but it's like, Uh, no.  Thank you guys just for being here with me.   
Yeah, I went to Joint Base Charleston, and it was just an unbelievable experience.  I got to go up - not up, but got to tour a C-17.  Never been in one before.   
No, just to share the moment.  Do a little clinic and just to see the smile on their faces, they're just so appreciative of everything in life.   
 Q.  Does that help put things in perspective for you, especially heading into a long five-week stretch?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Oh, it really does.  It made my little time off like so much more enjoyable.  That's why I got into the military when I was 15 or 16.  Got to meet a few Wounded Warriors and just to hear their stories and how their outlook on life is with what they've been through, it's eye opening.   
I'm like, Why am I getting mad at golf?  I mean, for what they've been through and they have a smile on their face and go through their day-to-day life like nothing happened - I mean, at least in our eyes it looks like it.  It's pretty remarkable just to meet those people.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT