UL INTERNATIONAL CROWN
October 4, 2018
Cristie Kerr
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What makes you two such a formidable pairing?
CRISTIE KERR: It wasn't pretty today.  I didn't contribute that much.  But we just, when I was out of it, she picked me up and I did the same on the few holes I was able to contribute.
Q. They call it brother-in-laws.  I guess in this situation it would be sisters-in-law, ham and egg, I don't know which is which.  What is it about her, Lexi, that brings out the best in you?  The fight in you?
LEXI THOMPSON: I just love watching her compete, just how she never gives up and she's always so fired up to do better and I think that's great in match play and having a partner like that by your side throughout every round.
Q. What do you think you guys need to do to be successful in defending the crown?
CRISTIE KERR: Half a point here would be good.
LEXI THOMPSON: That's very true.  No, just keep on playing good golf and keep strong.
Q. I assume the pairings are going to stay the same the rest of the week?
CRISTIE KERR: You never know.  We may just mix it up.
Q. Win is a win is a win, right?
CRISTIE KERR: Yep.
Q. Tell us about the win.  Ultimately the winning point came down to you, Cristie.
CRISTIE KERR: I don't think so.
Q. Did I read the card wrong?
CRISTIE KERR: Well, all the other holes that I was out of I think Lexi was in there, so...
When I was out of it, which was probably three quarters of the day today, Lexi was in there.  You know, I made a couple key putts at a couple key times.  Without her keeping us in there, it's ham and egg, baby.
Q. Doesn't matter how you get the win, right?
CRISTIE KERR: Yeah.
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, exactly.  I mean, she made two clutch birdies on the front that were definitely needed.  Like she said...
CRISTIE KERR: It's not always pretty.
LEXI THOMPSON: No.  We made a happen.
Q. You would think you guys would be a good alternate shot team.  You've done really well in fourball.  What makes you so successful in this play?
CRISTIE KERR: I think when one of us is out of a hole or in a bad position, the other one knows they have to step up.  We've been able to do that.  I think that's what makes a good team.  Even if you don't have your best swing for the day or you haven't seen a putt go in, you figure out a way to get it done.  I think that's important to remember here.
I mean, even when we missed some putts out there to give the momentum back to them, I was like, I don't care; I don't care; let's go forward.  I don't care.  You have to have that in a good team.
It's not always pretty.  Wins aren't always pretty.
Q. I think she's sort of has taken to this elder stateswoman role, if you will.  What kind of encouraging things do she say to you?  What's the conversation like out on the golf course?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, when we're partners, she's always...
CRISTIE KERR: Don't make me beat you.  You hit it down the fairway, Lexi.
LEXI THOMPSON: That is exactly what she's saying.  (Laughter.)
CRISTIE KERR: Just kidding.
LEXI THOMPSON: She is always there pumping me up.  If I hit a bad shot, she's like, Don't worry about it.  Go get the next one.  She's always there lifting me up when I need to and keeping positive thoughts in my mind.  It's great to have this partner by your side.
Q. What did you guys say to the team after they came off?  They fought back.
CRISTIE KERR: They never really went away.  It was a great match.  There were some good golf on both sides, some pretty bad golf on both sides.
You got to try to get it done.  It was great.  I didn't want to shake their hand or hug them because I'm a little sick right now, but they were very cordial out there.  Great to play with.  We were telling them good shot they were telling us good shot.  It was great sportsmanship.
Q. What you did you say to Michelle and Jessica as they came off the golf course?  4-down after five holes.  They really fought back.
CRISTIE KERR: Yeah, good try, good fight.  You got to try to get off to a better start than that.  It's hard to really come back from that, so much in the hole.
But they never game up.  That's Team USA.  That's what we do.  We'll come out and hopefully play some golf the next couple days.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT