CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 15, 2018
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I can tell you that Team Lexi is in full force.  Not only does she have her new puppy, Leo, with her, but her on the bag.  How nice was it having curtis inside the ropes with you?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, it is great to have Curtis on the bag.  He's caddied for me a few times before.  It was just awesome.  We get along so well on and off the golf course.  He knows my game very well and he was helping me read my putts, so it helped out.   
 Q.  What was the conversation going to be like trying to get that to possibly be a permanent thing?  
LEXI THOMPSON: I don't know about that.  I rather see him out there killing it on the tour.  Hopefully all the best for him.  He's playing a lot better, so I can't wait to see what 2019 has this store for him.   
 Q.  Reigning Race to the CME Globe champion.  So close to winning this tournament last year; you've had a good run in this event.  Trying get your first win of 2018.  How nice is it to be back in contention here at Tiburon?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, of course it's nice.  It's only the first day so I'm just trying take it one shot at a time.  It was nice to have day like this.  I knew game was there.  It was just all a matter of everything coming together and being 100% confident with my little swing changes that I've been working on.   
 Q.  (In progress. )  
LEXI THOMPSON: I don't play that much of the 30 something events.  But it was just much-needed time off.  I just needed to relax, hang out with my family, and just figure out a fee things off the golf course.   
 Q.  Did you feel different on the golf course today?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, you know, I just felt a lot more comfortable.  I've been working on a few swing, changes so just getting more consistent with it.  I worked on it a lot this last week at home.  It's just being confident with it, aiming right, hitting my draw, and just playing how I used to play.   
 Q.  How is that different?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Well, when I was younger I used to just aim up the right and hit this big ole hook out there.  But I knew it was going to hook, so I just played it.  That was always, y natural shot.  I've kind of gotten away from that just played a straight ball.  I could miss it left or right, so now I'm just aiming right knowing it's going to draw, so definitely liking it a lot more.   
 Q.  And having fun on the golf course, that makes a big difference, too.  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, it definitely does.  You have to enjoy yourself out there; 7-under rounds helps it be a little bit more enjoyable.  Golf is just a game.  It's hard to say that, but you just have to think that.  It's just what I'm doing.   
 Q.  It's hard to do on the golf course, but having your brother on the bag helps, too.  What came into that decision?  Did he volunteer or did you call him and go, Yo don't, Curtis, what's up?  
LEXI THOMPSON: He's caddied for me a few times before many he's great on my bag.  Obviously a player, a great player.  He helps me tremendously on the greens.  But he was trying to Monday qualify this week in Brunswick, Georgia and shot 5-under and missed.  That just shows the crazy amount of talent for the guys out ere.  I'm hoping that he's going to be playing, so I don't foresee him being on my bag full time.   
I want him to go out and kill it the a men's tour?   
 Q.  Tell the truth, when he missed the Monday qualifier you called him up and go, So you ain't doing nothing next week, right?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Well my dad had caddied for me the first practice round.  We were like, Okay, well, if Curtis doesn't make it he'll be on my bag, otherwise my dad would be on my bag.   
 Q.  It was going to be family one way or the other.  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I wanted him to make it 100%; I didn't want him on my bag, but -- no I did.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  Now, okay.  
LEXI THOMPSON: I'll take him.   
 Q.  So now it's the first round; 7-under; you're in a great position.  Going forward what's the most important thing?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, you know, obviously I had a great first round, but just going into the next three rounds with the same attitude I did today.  Just being confident out there and nice and relaxed and free swing it.  Commit to my lines and just do my routines.  That's all golf is, just being confident.   
 Q.  Speaking of fun, you played twice in Korea and then in Japan.  It wasn't a huge Asia swing for you.  
LEXI THOMPSON: Uh-huh.   
 Q.  Was it nice to be able to relax a little bit, come back and get a little rest?  Does that help in the first round out here?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, definitely.  I can't play in Asia the week before this event.  This event means so much to me and I always want to play well because I always have my family and friends out here and it's just a special week.   
But we have some great events over there in Asia.  I usually stick to two or three at most because I need to get home and get used to this time zone and just make sure I have that time at home to relax.   
 Q.  You're saying you're back to play your natural draw now.  Was that something you had fought?  Why did you ever go away from it?  
LEXI THOMPSON: I think just over time, I don't know, I was just trying hit straight balls I think maybe in the wind and not hit my hook out there.  It's basically a draw right now, and just different technology, just trying to get used to it over the times.   
But technology now is great and it's allowing me to aim up the right and hit my draw.  I definitely feel more comfortable with it now.  It's just something I went away from and I never should have.   
 Q.  You have a new putter in the bag this week?  
LEXI THOMPSON: It's the Bettinardi Queen Bee 6, I think.  It's what I used to use.  Yeah, not the happy putter anymore, but looks a lot like the happy putter.   
Yeah, I'm back to the Bettinardi.  I feel very comfortable with it.  Yeah, felt like I stroked a lot putts well today and gave myself a lot opportunities.   
 Q.  That putter, you used that style of putter early in your career, right?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I did.  I've always stuck to that kind of style.  Never been a blade putter or like a huge mallet.  This one I feel very comfortable with.   
 Q.  What did you hit when you made eagle on your second shot?  
LEXI THOMPSON: I hit 4-iron.   
 Q.  4-iron.  
LEXI THOMPSON: It as like 209 front; 220 pin.   
 Q.  To like eight feet?  
LEXI THOMPSON: 12 or 15, yeah.   
 Q.  Oh, okay.  
LEXI THOMPSON: I'll take 8.  Makes my putting look better if it was 15, though.   
 Q.  Do you feel like this week was a bit of a fresh start for sure you?  Are you looking at it that way at all?  
 LEXI THOMPSON yeah, a little bit.  I had what week off before this and it was definitely a nice week at home.  Just practiced a bit and hung out with my family.   
 This week, no matter how I play, it's just always so nice because I always have a bunch of family and friends here.  We always go all out to eat together.  It's a relaxing week.  And I brought my puppy, so it's just a good week?   
 Q.  What kind of dog do you have?  
LEXI THOMPSON: A Havapoo.   
 Q.  Half-a-poo?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Havapoo, Havanese and a poodle.   
 Q.  You changed caddies before coming out here.  Kevin was there with you for a lot of success.  What was behind the change this time?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I mean, we had a lot of success together.  We made a good team for the few years.  I just felt like it was just time to take a break.  It wasn't quite working at the time.  Just needed a little change.   
Having my brother out here on my bag is a great change.  Just his personality, he gets along with everybody and is so upbeat and positive.   
 Q.  Earlier this year you opened your heart to a lot of people.  They obviously became interested in Lexi as a person, too.  How are you doing, just to update them?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I'm doing well.  It's definitely a process.  I've been working on myself a lot with just going to therapists or just trying to figure myself out off the golf course, because I'm not just the golfer Lexi.  That's what I want people to know, and not expect so much out of me.   
Yeah, it's been going.  It's definitely a lot better.  I'm doing a lot better.  Just being home has made a huge difference.  Just being around my family and friends makes a tremendous difference.   
 Q.  You mentioned over there it's just a game.  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah.   
 Q.  Doesn't always seem like that though in the past, right?  
LEXI THOMPSON: No.  I say that and it's hard to believe it sometimes because I do take it very seriously.  I mean, it's been my life for a very long time.  I have come to realize it is just a game and I have an amazing family and amazing fans no matter good or bad.   
 Q.  You think what you've gone through is almost inevitable in the sense of someone that gets immersed in the game so young as you did, put so much effort it for so long, that it's a lot, it's a lot to deal with?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I mean, it is.  I've been in this game since 12 years.  I've been in kind of, I don't want to say spotlight, but I've been in since I made it to the first U.S. Women's Open.  It's been a lot to deal with, but I knew once I got into this game and turn professional that's what came with it.  It's what I've always wanted to do.  Growing up golf was always in my blood.  I knew what came with it.  Unfortunately there has been a lot the downs, but it makes the ups that much better.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT