MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 12, 2018
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Important part, I guess, is you finished strong.  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, it's definitely a good confidence booster going into tomorrow's round.  It was just a rough day ball-striking-wise and putting as well.  I just didn't feel like I was on coming into the day.  But that's golf.  Some days you feel it, some days you don't.  I stayed in it strong, and I knew I could finish either birdie-birdie or give myself a good eagle chance on those two par-5s.   
 Q.  When you saw all those early leaders out there, I.K. in the morning tee times, what were you thinking as you started your round?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I kind of figured that would be leading after the morning wave, around 4- or 5-under, if not more.  I figured there was probably a little less wind in the morning.  But you can definitely get some birdies on this golf course if you just place on the right spots on the fairways, and able to stop the balls on the greens, because they are getting firmer as the week goes on.   
 Q.  How have you seen any change or difference in the course from last year to this year?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Well, it's in perfect shape for us.  I would say it's not playing as firm as the last two years.  Especially last year, it was playing a lot firmer.  I would say the main change on 18, adding like 50 yards to it, I think that makes for a great finishing hole.   
 Q.  Does this first round and where you score-wise an indicator or change your mentality or approach to tomorrow?  
LEXI THOMPSON: I'm just going to take those last two holes as a confidence booster going into tomorrow.  Maybe get here a little earlier, have a little more warm-up session to feel more confident going into the second round, and be good to go.   
 Q.  What do you feel like you need to work on tomorrow before you go off?  
LEXI THOMPSON: I would say it was just a lot of ball striking.  I just couldn't really find the fairway.  I felt like timing was off.  Maybe body was a little tired.  I practiced a lot yesterday and had the 18 hole Pro-Am, went to Inverness after to practice.   
But it was all just ball striking and timing everything up.  I think it was a lot to do with routine and just getting comfortable with my shots.   
 Q.  How important is the mental game?  You said you have days like this, you have three days ahead of you just to stay even keeled throughout the whole process?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, it's tough.  I'm not going to lie, I struggle with it a lot.  It gets to you sometimes.  But you have to stay in it.  You can't give up.  I struggled.  I was 2-over through nine and I was like, oh, my gosh, what can I do to turn this round around?  And I just tried to stay confident, I birdied 10, so I was like, all right, let's get it going.   
I just stayed in it.  That's all you can do.  I don't like giving up, but it's definitely tough when your game's not there that day.   
 Q.  I'm doing a story.  An 8-year-old is here just to see you and she's rooting for you.  So what would you say to the next generation?  
LEXI THOMPSON: It's amazing just to see the little kids out here supporting us.  I had a little girl out here following me every single hole, and giving me a high five on every tee box.  I don't know if that was her.  But I gave her a signed glove, and that's hopefully the future of our game, and we want to be role models for the little kids or people of all ages.  I think it means the world to us, and I think the game is in great hands.   
 Q.  Can you talk about the accessibility of the fans to you out here at Highland Meadows compared to other courses?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I think it's amazing.  We had a few fans out here yesterday for the Pro-Am.  That's great to see.  You're probably more able to talk to us at a Pro-Am because we're taking it a little more lightly and just having fun out there.  Sometimes we bring fans in to walk with us.   
But out here they get a good group of fans and that's what we want to see.  This tournament does the best with it.   
 Q.  You're done for the day.  How are you going to go home and unwind and prepare for tomorrow?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Well, I have a morning tee time tomorrow, so I'm going to grab something quick for dinner and probably eat in my hotel room, and just rest up.  Get my bag ready for tomorrow, and tee it up early.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT