MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 10, 2018
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Welcome back.  We're here with Lexi Thompson, our 2017 Marathon Classic runner-up.  Welcome back to Toledo.  You played 18 holes this morning.  And I've been hearing great things about the golf course.  How does it look out there?   
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, the course is in great shape.  Once again, it's always in good shape when we come here to Toledo.  It's a little softer this year than it was last year.  It got really firm last year.  But the course is in great shape, greens are fast, and yeah, looking forward to the week.   
THE MODERATOR: Tell us how you feel your game is as you come into the week here at Toledo?   
LEXI THOMPSON: I feel like my game's in a great spot.  I've had a few good tournaments the past weeks that I've played, and took a nice week off last week.  So definitely refreshed, feel good about my game, and it's always nice to come back to Marathon Classic.   
THE MODERATOR: What does a Lexi Thompson off week look like?  Are you a sleeper-in, what do you do?   
LEXI THOMPSON: No, I barely sleep in general.  Yeah, when I say my week off, I just mean I'm not traveling.  I'm still going home, I'm training, practicing, just because I have a lot of important weeks like this one, and the British Open as well coming up and a lot of other tournaments.  Yeah, it's a lot of practicing.   
I train with my trainer Kolby back at home.  I trained with him four times this week.  Then just a lot of practice work on my putting a lot.  Yeah, just regular stuff in season.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) I know you are heavily into working out.  How does that help your game, and what do you work on most?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, it's become very important.  It's kind of my outlet.  I've become addicted to it.  But I had my trainer Kolby tell me back at home in Jupiter, Florida, he works out of Joey D's Sports Center there in Jupiter, and we do the right exercises and building the right muscles for the golf swing.  Building the muscles that I'm weak on, and doing a lot of band exercises and balance as well.  With the golf swing it's a lot of lower body and core work, so we really focus on that.  But when I go on my own.  It's a lot more cardio.   
Making sure I do that cardio, and make sure I get through the seven-hour-long days we have here for our practice rounds and real rounds.  Because we have some long days, and we have to make sure we are in shape for it.   
 Q.  How do you maintain that on the road for those of us who are struggling with that?  Is that where the cardio comes in?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, definitely.  We do a lot of cardio just walking around the golf course.  But I always make time for it.  It's like I plan my day where I can get the practice I need, the practice rounds in, and a good workout in.  Like today, I played 18 at 6:45 this morning, practice a little bit, have a press conference, and then go straight to the gym from here, and Pro-Am party tonight.   
So it's just a matter of fitting it into your schedule and making time for it, and you always can.   
 Q.  With a really exhausting tour schedule, what attracted you to this tournament?  Why was it important for you to be here this week?  
LEXI THOMPSON: I think it's one of our best tournaments, just the way it's run.  The golf course is always in great shape for us.  That's what we look for.  Just the hospitality overall in general is one of the best.   
I've seemed to play well here the few years that I've been here, so it's definitely a tournament I come back to.  Judd Silverman is a great man, and all the volunteers and sponsors do a great job here.   
 Q.  It seems like some of the higher ranked players took the week off from their schedule.  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, because our schedule changes so much each and every year.  This is a long stretch that we're in right now.  I took off last week, so I'm ready for this week.  But it's all a matter of looking at the schedule the beginning of the year and planning.  But, yeah, it probably just didn't fall at the best time.   
 Q.  I saw on your Instagram your #womanup, tell me about that program.  I know the fans and especially the kids mean so much to you.  But it looks like you're awarding (Indiscernible), tell us about that program?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, it's pretty unbelievable.  Red Bull and my sponsors have helped me out a lot in doing it.   
It's really for me just to reach out to my fans and show them that they are good enough.  And I wanted to hear their stories on what they do to be the best version of themselves each and every day.  Whether that's posting a picture of them working out or going to the golf course, or doing their everyday thing or their everyday job.  Just what makes them the best version of themselves and what makes them happy and follow their dreams.   
Yeah, so Grace won it, so I'll be meeting her at the end of the year at the Tour Championship, so I'm really looking forward to meeting her, and hearing her story.  She's pretty inspirational herself, so I'm just happy I could be a role model for those kids.   
 Q.  In a couple years -- of course we come here every year, but in a couple years we're coming back for the Solheim Cup in 2021.  What can the media and the fans expect of someone who has been on several Solheim Cup teams expect when the whole bandwagon comes to town in a couple years?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I know this tournament is a big deal for Toledo.  So I can imagine how the Solheim Cup is going to be.  I played nine holes there before it was redone, and I'm actually staying over there.  It's an unbelievable golf course.  Just the whole area.  I think it will be huge.  There is nothing like the Solheim Cup.  Representing your country is the highest honor, but especially in the States, being an American, hearing the USA chants, wearing your country's colors, there is absolutely nothing like it.  You'll see some of the best golf ever.  It gives me chills just thinking about it, so I just hope to be there representing.   
 Q.  Your first and second rounds this year have been good but not Lexi-like.  I mean, you're obviously not having trouble making cuts.  You lead the LPGA with 29 made cuts.  But when you come to the weekend on Saturday, you usually find yourself, six, seven shots behind, and then you go nuts on the weekend.  I'm wondering, you do a lot of media, Lexi, on Tuesdays and Wednesdays.  Is it possible when you're on the course on Thursday and Friday (Indiscernible) then by Saturday and Sunday you shoot lights out?  
LEXI THOMPSON: I don't think it has anything to do with media.  That comes with being a professional athlete.  I do a press conference usually every week.  It takes 15, 20 minutes, so I always find time for it.  But I don't think it's a matter of that.  I think it's a matter of feeling comfortable on the course.  I do my two practice rounds and then have a Pro-Am so I think it's more of just getting settled.   
Golf's a crazy game.  You could wake up one day and just have it, everything's good with your golf swing.  So, yeah, it's just a matter of not being perfect.   
 Q.  I think some of that also has to do with the caliber of the fields?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, it really is.  Just the competition out here.  You saw last week, shooting 31-under.  It's pretty remarkable just the amount of competition out here.  It's just getting better and better.  It's great to see, I think, the fans out here really recognize that.   
 Q.  What did you think of Inverness?  Have you ever been there before?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I only played, I believe, maybe the front nine.  I know they were doing a lot of stuff to the back nine when I was there.  It was a few years ago when I played those nine holes.  It was in great shape, and it was tough, I remember.   
But supposedly with them redoing it, the fans will be able to stay on one hole and be able to see three or four holes at the same time, which is great.  I think that's really a good part of what they had in Des Moines.  I think it was great for the fans, and it drove a lot bigger crowds, because people get to sit right there and watch three holes, it was great for them.  I think it will be huge at Inverness, and the course will be in spectacular shape and get the crowds.  I mean, we get the crowds here, so I'm really looking forward to it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT