HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 22, 2018
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Lexi, literally got off to the perfect start today.  How important is that in a round one on a low-scoring golf course?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, definitely helps.  Ariya and I eagled the 1st hole and we all birdied the 2nd hole.  I was like, this could be a good group to watch.
Yeah, I mean, it definitely helps to get that kind of start, but I was just trying to keep that momentum and not get ahead of myself and just keep on doing my routine and focus on one shot at a time.
Q. What was key for you out there today?  66.  Obviously blistering start.  Everyone is kind of going low.
LEXI THOMPSON: I would say this golf course a lot is just getting it in the fairway it begin with.  There are some tucked pin locations that you really need the spin on to control.
So getting in the fairway if to with, but once you're there, it's all second shots, getting it and controlling the spin coming into some of these hole locations.
Q. Around the greens you've got the happy putter in the bag.  Still happy with it at the end of the day?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yes, I am.  I had 28 putts today I believe.  I made some really will good putts, especially there on the front nine, and had some good par putts as well.
I'm definitely happy with it, and it's nice to look at, so that definitely helps.
Q. Big crowds for you guys out there today.  How nice is it to have some support from the Thai locals?
LEXI THOMPSON: It's very nice.  We get a really good fan base out here in Thailand, and that means a lot to us.  They're always high fiving us or cheering us on in between holes.
That's why I love coming out here.  Not only is the golf course great, but we get a really good group of fans out here to support us.
Q. You've got a new driver in the bag this year.  Was it a bit of a contest, the longest hitting contest, out there in your group today?
LEXI THOMPSON: You know, I'm trying not to worry about how long I am.  I did put a new driver in the bag this year.  You know, I'm liking it a lot.  It's just all about being confident over there on the first tee and just on the tee shots out here and getting it in the fairway.
I'm not really worried about the distance.  Happens to go far, too.  I wasn't the longest, I don't think.
Q. Great 66 round for you today; tied at the top of the leaderboard.  You opened with an eagle.  That's got to be a great way to start a round anywhere, but especially here at Siam Country Club.
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, it was really good way to start the round.  Never complain about an eagle the first hole, but Ariya eagled it as well.  It was a good start for us all.
I just tried to keep the momentum going and focus on one shot at a time and not get too ahead of myself and get too excited out there.
Q. Had to be the bad guy and sneak you through the autograph line.  You've got Ariya and everyone here.  What's it like being out here with so many fans and Thai locals cheering you on as you go around the golf course?
LEXI THOMPSON: It's great.  We always get a lot of fans out here to support us, and that's really just what we want to see.  Just to see the amount many fans all around the world, not only in the U.S., it's great.  It's a global tour and that's what we want to see.
To see the smiles on the fan's faces, that's what we play for.  That's what we want to see out here.  They support us, and it means the world to me to see the amount of people that were out here on a Thursday.
Q. One last question.  It's really hot out here.  We know you keep fit.  That certainly helps you out there.  What's the tackle out on the golf course to keep up with 18 holes in this humidity?
LEXI THOMPSON: Drink 18 bottles of water at least.  I think I drank five bottles of water before I even tee'd it up today.  That's the key, to stay hydrated.  It's difficult to eat when you're this hot and sweating this much, but you have to make sure you eat.  You don't realize how important that it.
But really just staying hydrating, because it is draining.  It doesn't matter how physically fit you are.  Definitely helps to be.  And just relax when you're done with your round.  Not overtire yourself.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT