ANA INSPIRATION
March 30, 2018
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Was it a good day, Lexi?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I hit it really well today.  I just struggled on the greens.  I missed a good amount of putts, shorter putts too.  So, just felt a little uncomfortably today on the greens, but I'm going to get a little practice in and hopefully get it by the weekend.   
 Q.  Looks like after the three-putt then you missed a short one at 13 and then you kind of gathered it back together after that on the par 3.  That was like the toughest putt you had all day.  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I was hitting it well all day, so I just tried to stay positive with my ball striking and everything.  Yeah, I was just a little off with the putter, but that happens.  It's golf.  There are going to be good days and bad days.  So I just had to stay positive about my ball striking because that was really good, and I couldn't let that get to me.   
 Q.  Did you feel like it was a few misreads or was it a bad feeling?  
LEXI THOMPSON: I would just say it didn't feel as comfortable lining it up.  I just missed a few left, and that was my pretty consistent miss today.  So I'm going to work on it, figure it out, and be good to go by this time Saturday.   
 Q.  With your Happy putter and the alignment, is that something you change very much?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Well, I really love the alignment guide I have on it now.  It's so much easier for me to lineup.  It has a thick silver lining between two black lines.  I love the alignment guide.  It was just a matter of stroke today.  It wasn't anything to do with the putter because I love it.   
 Q.  Good way to finish.  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, it was.  I birdied 17.  Hit a great iron shot and that par 3, hit it to six feet and made it.  Yeah, ending on a birdie in front of a huge crowd is always a good feeling.  We had good crowds out there today, so that always makes me feel good.   
 Q.  17, that was a left edge putt too and caught the edge?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I played it left edge and it didn't break.  I was kind of surprised because in the books it had threes.  So it should have broken a lot more, but it caught edge and that's all that matters.   
 Q.  What did you hit on 17 from the tee?  
LEXI THOMPSON: I hit 8-iron.  It was, I believe like 170.   
 Q.  What did you stuff in here on 18?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Full lob wedge, it was 94.   
 Q.  You had the crowd on the edge of their seats on 18.  Did you think that one was going to sink in?  
LEXI THOMPSON: I was hoping for it.  I didn't want to ask for too much, but just the way the crowd reacted was a great feeling.  To have them all stand up in the bleachers up there and give you high fives, it's the best experience walking up to the 18th green here.   
 Q.  With the course conditions, do you feel you can go really low this weekend and make up a lot of ground?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, you definitely can.  You just have to hit it on the fairways out here, but they're putting some hard pin locations.  They're tucking them a lot more than they usually do.  There were actually a few Sunday pins from last year that they put today.   
But you just have to hit it in the fairway and go after the pins.  The greens are a little receptive, they are a little firmer, but the course is in great shape, so you can definitely attack it if it's no wind like this.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT