CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 18, 2017
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Started with a double bogey today.  How were you able to right the ship?  Bogey-free the rest of the round.
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I guess you're right with how this week has been going.  Yeah, I fought back.  Birdied the 2nd hole after the 1st double there, and just tried to stay positive.  My caddie, Kevin, helped me out a lot.
Just a few bad shots on that 1st hole, really bad shots.  Then I just fired at pins and hit some great shots coming in and made a lot nice putts.
Q. I know this is a tournament you really want to win.  Obviously in good shape to do a lot of great things.  When you're out there, how much are you thinking about that knowing that Sung Hyun started the day with a sizable lead?
LEXI THOMPSON: Well, I mean, I treat every tournament the same.  I go into it wanting to win.  I don't treat this tournament any differently, besides it's one of my favorites because it's close to home and I have all my family and friends out her.
Besides that, I'm not really thinking about anything else.  I'm just trying to focus on my game and do my best.  That's all I can do.
Q. Tomorrow could be crazy.
LEXI THOMPSON: How is that?
Q. There is about 20 people can win.
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, you know, I mean, I'm not going into tomorrow with any different attitude.  Just going to go out there, free swing, commit to my targets, and just try to do my best, how I played my last 17 holes today, is just how my mindset is going into tomorrow.
Q. What happened on 1?
LEXI THOMPSON: I made double.
Q. What is it about the starts?  All three days so far you've gotten off to difficult starts.  What is it about the start and what is it about you turning it around?
LEXI THOMPSON: I think it's just about me getting settled.  I'm going to try a little something a little different tomorrow just to make sure that I'm nice and relaxed going into that first tee shot.
There is always that little bit of adrenaline and just wanting to get playing and get out there and just get started.  So there is always that bit of adrenaline, but you have to tame it and control it.
Q. Given where you are on the leaderboard now and everything at stake tomorrow, you think there will be a little bit more adrenaline out there?
LEXI THOMPSON: I mean, I've had adrenaline the last three days just because I love this tournament.  I want to win every time I tee it up.  I don't treat this tournament any differently.
I'm in a good position for tomorrow, but I am just going to focus on one shot at a time and just visualize my shots out there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT