SOLHEIM CUP
August 19, 2017
Lexi Thompson
Cristie Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. [Question off microphone]  what's it like (inaudible) what she brings to the table?
LEXI THOMPSON: It's incredible.  We've been partners for about a year now, since (inaudible) last year.  And it's been unbelievable and she just locks everything in, makes bunker shots.  And I feel like I played pretty good today and she just played outstanding.  She's an animal out there.
Q. I'll go to you Cristie, because yesterday you guys were okay.  I'm not used to you kind of being a little bit average in your game, but today you turned the heat up both this morning and this afternoon.  What was different?
CRISTIE KERR: We just knew they were going to play really tough and they did.  They made a lot of birdies and they stuffed it in some holes that we said I had to make putts on top of them.  Lexi had to make putts on top of them.
And we really ham and egged it out well there.  I think that's why we make such a good team because we're there for each other.
Q. That was amazing to watch.  I just heard you describe your playing partner as an animal.
LEXI THOMPSON: She is.  That's for sure.  She's been a great partner over the years and she never gives up.  And true grit out there, and she played amazing.  And also the Europeans did as well.
Q. Now, when I watched you in the morning, yesterday, you were completely different than how you were now.  You really upped your game since then.  Has that been a concerted effort for you or something that just happened naturally for you?
CRISTIE KERR: We had to step it up.  As the week goes on, the matches get tougher and tougher.  And we faced a very formidable opponent today.  And they played really tough.
I hit (indiscernible), whatever hole that par 3 was, and they made a 20-footer on top of me.  And I did that to them on another hole.  It was a tough match.
Q. You are a combined 12-under through 15 holes.  I don't know if you guys were aware.
CRISTIE KERR: We knew -- we said we might have to shoot 59 to win this match.  Because they were playing really well.  So we might very well have.
Q. And as you said you ham-and-egged it really well out there.  You make such a great partnership.  When I spoke to you at the Women's British Open, you said you were looking forward to playing with this girl here.  That ham-and-egging and being there for each other, when someone else is in trouble, is that something that you can certainly say to yourself:  I need to be there for them?
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, it really is.  That's what team golf is all about, being there for your partner.  If they get in trouble, you know how to play it safe and just get it in play, make your par or birdie when you need to.  But that's match play and that's team golf.  You have to be there for your partner and your team.
Q. The position that America is in going into tomorrow, how are you going to approach that?
CRISTIE KERR: We're going to keep our foot down on the gas.  We are not going to take anybody for granted.  We know that they're going to leave it all out on the golf course and so are we.  So we have to play like the underdogs almost, because, you know what, it only matters if you have the lead after everything's done.
Q. Cristie and Lexi, another sensational performance again.  But we have to start out with a bunker shot, a hole-out for eagle at 15.  How the heck did you pull that off?
CRISTIE KERR: You know, hit a good shot.  I knew Lexi was in there.  And I was just trying to hit a good shot, try to send it to the hole and maybe it would go in.  And it was absolutely perfect.
Q. As a pair, you two have played so well together.  Just this week 2-0-1 in match play.  What's the best part of playing as a team?
LEXI THOMPSON: I think just the amount of birdies we can make, just today, and the attitudes on the golf course, we never give up and we're very competitive out there and aggressive players, and we're always there for each other.  If one's in trouble, the other one is playing it safe, making the par or birdie when needed.  But we've been partners.  I think we're going to be partners forever, for life.
CRISTIE KERR: If it works, don't mess it up.
Q. Going into singles, over your experience and your veteran years, what have you learned about going into singles, what does it take to win here?
CRISTIE KERR: Just the mindset you have to be aggressive and you can't play to lose.  You have to play to win.
That's the big thing that Juli has said to us over the last couple of Solheims.  And it's true.  And you have to be able to stand up there, hit a golf shot when you need to hit a golf shot.  And you know what, the fans deserve some good golf.  That's what we're going to give them.
Q. Let's talk about Juli.  You pulled off an epic win in 2015 because of the singles matches.  Tomorrow, what has Juli done in order to prepare the group and how has she set the mood for the team?
LEXI THOMPSON: It's a little different standings going into the final matches, rather than Germany's standings.
Juli has such a perfect personality and so pumped up, she's going to be there.  And just being super positive with us.  And like Kerr said, we're going to go out and play to win.  That's what we do.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT