CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
August 30, 2017
Lexi Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Lexi Thompson joining us today.  It's been a couple years since you've been at the Portland Classic.  How does it feel to be back?   
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, it feels great to be back.  This is an amazing tournament.  It just hasn't fallen right in the schedule, so that's why I haven't been here a few years.   
I've played it once since it's changed to this golf course, and I really like this golf course, so looking forward to starting up.   
THE MODERATOR: What is it you like about this golf course, and have you had the chance to practice yesterday?   
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, well, it's in great shape obviously.  Played the last few days just nine holes, nine holes Monday, Tuesday, and 18-hole pro-am today.  It's just a great layout.  I don't hit too many drivers, but a few of the holes I can take advantage and get it down there on a few of those holes and have a few wedges in.   
THE MODERATOR: Seems like you're firing on all cylinders this season.  Couple runner ups and a win at Kingsmill.  How are you playing right now?  Are there things you're working on to improve?   
LEXI THOMPSON: I think my game is in a great spot.  I worked extremely hard in the off-season on improving on things like my short game, my chipping and putting, and I think that's showing just coming into the year.  I just really wanted to play consistent golf and put myself in a position to win.   
I have done that a few times this year.  Just trying to stay positive out on the golf course and have fun with my caddie, Kevin, out there.  It's been a great year, so I'm looking forward to finishing it off with about six more events.   
THE MODERATOR: Your last tournament was the Solheim Cup.  Take us back to that experience and what that was like for you.   
LEXI THOMPSON: That was an amazing experience.  Any time I can represent my country that's my number one goal.  That's was my number one goal coming into the year, to be on that team.  There is nothing like representing your country.   
To have Juli Inkster as a captain is a huge honor.  She is a huge role model to me.  To be part of a team in an individual sport, we don't get that opportunity very often, so it bring us all together in a very different way.   
And to be able to get that win -- I mean, the Europeans played some amazing golf.  It was just a very special week.   
THE MODERATOR: I know it was a busy week for you.  You did have the week off last week.  How do you feel heading into the rest of the season mentally and physically?   
LEXI THOMPSON: I feel good.  It was a week that I needed to take off after Solheim Cup.  I mean, we don't get much time to ourselves to just relax.  It was nice.  I went home, I trained.  I actually took like three, four days off just totally of golf.  Spent some time with mom and family.   
It was nice to be able to relax and make sure I'm ready for this stretch, the three weeks that I have now.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
 Q.  Just talk a little bit about Sunday at the Solheim Cup and the sort of golf you played there on the back nine.  Where did that rank in terms of golf you've played this season and what is it going to do for you for the rest of the year?  
LEXI THOMPSON: The back nine was definitely some of the best golf I've ever played in my life; some of my best shots I'll have in my career, that's for are.  I knew coming into the day playing against Anna, she's such a great player.  I knew I had to shoot a good amount under and make birdies on her.   
Not too sure what went on with my first nine.  Wasn't quite awake.  My warmup went well.  It was just very unexpected what I did on the front.  You know, I just went all out on the back nine and went for every pin.  Hit a lot of drivers and I had nothing to lose.  I was 4-down.   
So, yeah, I played some great golf.  It was a great match to watch.  We had a lot of fans out there, which was a great part of it.   
 Q.  We're about two thirds of the way through the year.  Obviously achieved one of your goals playing in the Solheim Cup.  What else do you want to achieve by the end of this year?  
LEXI THOMPSON: You know, I go into every event wanting to win.  That's my number one goal any time I tee it up.  We have one more major left in the year.  My attitude doesn't really change going into a major or any other event.  Like I said, I want to win.   
Just going to try to play the golf I've been playing in the beginning of the year and coming up and see where it goes.   
 Q.  You mentioned spending a bit of time with your mom.  She's had some battles this year.  How is she doing?  
LEXI THOMPSON: She's doing great.  She is back to being healthy now.  As you know, she was at Solheim Cup and the Open this year.  She trucked around for those 36 or 30 holes, so she's doing very well.   
I'm happy I got to spend that time with her.   
 Q.  You got to play the golf course.  They've had some warm weather here.  Is it firm and fast?  Give us an idea of how it's playing.  
LEXI THOMPSON: It's actually not very firm.  The grass is pretty flush is not too much roll-out, which is surprising because they haven't gotten rain in a very long time.  I was expecting a lot more roll-out on the tee shots.   
The greens take one pretty big hop and then stop, but wedges still spin.  We'll see what they do for the tournament days.   
 Q.  During the week of Women's British Open you had an issue with your jaw.  It was TMJ?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah.   
 Q.  I don't know much about that, but is that still an issue?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah, I still have it going on.  It's settled down the last week, week and a half.  I had it checked out when I was home this last week.  It's just like severe jaw pain when I sleep.  I don't know if I grind my teeth or not, but it's like a shooting pain in my upper back teeth that goes up the side of my face.  It's been keeping me up.   
At the British I was going on two hours of sleep at night and it was brutal.  I am wearing a splint when I sleep now.  We have to grind it out to where it's hopefully shaped to my teeth correctly.  Yeah, it's been a little rough.   
I'm dealing with it and it's gotten better.   
 Q.  Was that an issue during the Solheim Cup?  
LEXI THOMPSON: Yeah.  I was waking up in the middle of the night and getting ice packs at like 3:00 a.m.   
 Q.  Do you think that may have been why you played poorly on the front nine on Sunday?  
LEXI THOMPSON: No.  I didn't actually get it Saturday night.  I don't think that was it.  My warmup went well.  I felt great.  Yeah, it's a hit or miss.  I'm actually good at going on little sleep right now.  I'm used to it.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT