TUDOR UNITED SPORTSCAR CHAMPIONSHIP: ROLEX 24 AT DAYTONA
January 26, 2014
Brian Frisselle
Burt Frisselle
Fabien Giroux
John Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We have our third‑place finishers here today overall and in the Prototype class for the 52nd Rolex 24 at Daytona, co‑drivers of the No.9 Action Express Racing Corvette DP, Burt Frissell, Brian Frissell, John Martin and Fabien Giroix.   Burt, why don't you start us off, just take us through how it went for you guys today.   Do you feel like you kind of maybe through under the radar a little bit to get this third place?   
BURT FRISSELLE:   Yeah, you know, I think especially with the affiliation Action Express had with Delta Motorsports this week, we definitely flew under the radar.   We had two excellent co‑drivers in John Martin and Fabien, and I won't try to say his last name because I would slaughter it.   Anyway, I feel like we did fly under the radar, and John drove brilliantly in his times in the car, Fabian was very smart during the time, obviously when the big rad flag happened and our thoughts and prayers go out to Alex.   But really, this whole weekend started to come together for us on Wednesday night.   We had a big team dinner, both cars, and we really felt like we had an opportunity to be one‑two.   One‑three was a little bit short of our goal, but, you know, we'll take it.   I think Action Express even with the affiliation with Delta, everyone worked so hard, so well together, and we felt even back when we were testing in the beginning of this month, back in December, that we were going to have two cars capable of winning, and today we did have two cars capable of winning.   One did, and one came home on the podium.   
THE MODERATOR:   Brian, obviously your dad raced, you and Burt raced together.   Talk a little bit about kind of the family connection and how important it is for you guys to have success together.   
BRIAN FRISSELLE:   Well, it's just a nice thing that we're very blessed to be able to have success together.   Dad was on the podium here at the 24 Hours of Daytona.   He won Sebring, so Sebring is up next, so hopefully we can match his mark there.   
You know, I've just got to tip my hat to the whole team, Action Express, and Delta Motorsports, just for putting together two great cars.   Both cars on the podium, both cars on the lead lap, one car wins, which is how it's going to have to be, and also I mean, it was a tough race just because it started off with a terrible accident with a good friend Memo Gidley, and our thoughts are with him.   We know he's already started his recovery, but it quickly puts into perspective what you're doing out there and what really matters.   
THE MODERATOR:   Fabien, just talk about this experience of coming here, joining this team and lining up on the podium.   
FABIEN GIROIX:   It was fantastic for me because it was the first time I come to Daytona, and I never expect when I come to the beginning of January to make the test here, I never imagine that we can do a podium.   We had a fantastic car, great teammates who make very good job, and as a team, Action Express and Delta, Millennium Development, fantastic job.  
THE MODERATOR:   John, your comments on a fine effort here?   
JOHN MARTIN:   Yeah, I mean, just to back up what everyone said really, I think the whole Millennium Delta Motorsports, Action Express team have done amazing, same as Fabien.   Really it's my first time here, first time driving the car.   So to come here and sort of run up front all day was amazing, really.   Had some good teammates, obviously Burt and Brian have been here a fair bit, so it was certainly good to have them and their experience all this week.   Thanks a lot, guys.   Yeah, it's a privilege to be up here, really.   
   
 Q.   Burt, you said earlier you had two cars winning the race, and I think maybe you stay in this kind of standard for the rest of the season.   How identical are both cars in the setup?   I think you're sharing information with your sister car.   And having two cars winning a race, is there any decision made before the race that you didn't put each other out?   
BURT FRISSELLE:   Yeah, I mean, basically the motto of Action Express starting back at last year was two cars, one team.   So when it comes to in terms of data sharing, our lead engineer Ian Watt, it really is a two‑car effort that's really one team as opposed to traditional two‑car teams that are almost operating as two separate teams that share the same shop.   We have very much‑‑ the cars roll to the track often within let's say 100‑pound spring difference, maybe that.   And very often they're very close, and we do share everything.   And when our engineers do take different paths, we all get together and find out what's working for what car.   
The other thing that's been really great about that relationship is the relationship Brian and I have developed with Christian as well over the last year, and the drivers have that same synergy, as well.   So I think we're very lucky, and I thought it worked unbelievably with the Millennium Delta Motorsports guys to come in.   They brought their engineer David, their dad Chris, they're basically their version of Elton Sawyer, they like to call it, they've got a gentleman named Simon, and those guys integrated into the team seamlessly and really ran the car.   So really it was an Action Express prepared car, crewed car, but run by their effort, and it shows that guys have been racing in Europe that haven't come to Daytona and haven't fought this with some guidance from Action.   They came in and did an absolute brilliant job of running it, calling it, collaborating, and we all worked well together from the start of the race to the end.  
THE MODERATOR:   Gentlemen, congratulations.   Thanks for joining us.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT