JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 30, 2009
Martin Erlandsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   GORDON SIMPSON: Well, fantastic golf today, Martin, ten birdies, no bogeys, all totals up to 62 which is actually the lowest round ever shot here, although with preferred lies. Just give us a sense what have was going through your mind in these birdies. 
 MARTIN ERLANDSSON: Yeah, well, I was so trying to stay in the present and not let things run away in my head too much, like I've done before when I've threatened to shoot a low round. I've got it in me but I was okay for 18 today. I think I got off to a good start and that helped my confidence and I really enjoyed it and played free and that was the key. Try to control the shots and that's what I want to do. I was very very close to doing it for 18 holes to, apart from two or three holes, so I am very happy.

 Q. How hard was it to stay in the moment?
 MARTIN ERLANDSSON: Well, I had some mental things to think about and I was just thinking about things and looking at my tumb and wondering how it looked. I didn't want any other thought in my head. Pretty much all the last six holes I was trying not to think about it and talk to my caddie. If you think about a pink elephant you can just think about a pink elephant. That's what I was trying to do and look at the tree or look at somebody in the audience and keep my mind at peace and let it be. 
 We were talking a little bit about making a birdie for Emma, my daughter, but talked about the family and at home and so on, he was really good to keep me in the present, as well. So a big thank you for my caddie.

 Q. When did you start to think about winning?
 MARTIN ERLANDSSON: 11 I think. 

 Q. What's your mind-set --
 MARTIN ERLANDSSON: No, actually that didn't come up, no. I was -- no. I noticed that I was flying away in my head after 13 holes, wow, this can be good, this can finish there and blah, blah, blah and everything. All the thoughts you can ever imagine. So there were two holes I didn't do too good I think mentally. But otherwise from that, it was really, really good. 

 Q. Did you have any birdie chances that were par saves?
 MARTIN ERLANDSSON: No, it was just 13, 14 that was a little bit steery, if you can call it that; I don't know. 
 GORDON SIMPSON: A chance at 16, as well, didn't you. 
 MARTIN ERLANDSSON: Yes. 
 GORDON SIMPSON: Did you realise that eight birdies in succession is the Tour record, or is that something you were also trying to avoid thinking about? 
 MARTIN ERLANDSSON: No, that didn't come up. 

 Q. Do you use a sports psychologist? 
 MARTIN ERLANDSSON: Yeah, I'm working with a hurdler, a Swedish hurdler, Sven Nylander. 
 He left his careeer now and he is very much into meditation. So I've been doing a couple of meditations, and the key for us is just to be where you are and stay in the present. That's the key. And no matter what happens, you're just going to play the game fully out and enjoy it. It's easy to say.

 Q. Inaudible.
 MARTIN ERLANDSSON: No, that's one of the things he said. He said take something that's way, way out of it and just think of that instead. So you occupy your mind with something else.

 Q. Who taught him to look at his thumb when hurdling (laughter))?
 MARTIN ERLANDSSON: Nobody. He was into that zone thinking, as well. 
 GORDON SIMPSON: Is he a trained psychologist or something he's sort of fallen into? 
 MARTIN ERLANDSSON: He's been doing it in his career more and more, learning.

 Q. Inaudible.
 MARTIN ERLANDSSON: No, I can't say I did anything different from what I have known before. It's a little bit maybe -- I got a few good breaks to start early on and really trusted what I was doing. I think that's the key.

 Q. When did you last have worrying thoughts?
 MARTIN ERLANDSSON: Yeah, well, a couple of weeks ago in Barsebäck. I was playing at home and I was playing really, really good and I managed to think too much on the Sunday there and putting too much pressure on myself. Of course, I want to -- well, I have not been playing that well during the summer. I want to finish my card off and get ready for next season sort of and I wanted to do that as soon as possible. 
 GORDON SIMPSON: I think you've done it now then. 
 MARTIN ERLANDSSON: That's a major plus. 

 Q. Did thoughts of winning the tournament come up? 
 MARTIN ERLANDSSON: It came up. It came up. But I was really happy about pushing that aside a little bit and focusing on the final hole because I played the final hole really, really well. It was after 13 holes, I birdied 13 and then, wow, this can be something. 
 GORDON SIMPSON: Can you just run through the ten birdies very quickly, if you can remember them.
 MARTIN ERLANDSSON: 2, I was newspaper two and 2-putted from down stairs. 
 4, I hit a good 5-wood to three or four metres and made that one. 
 6, I knocked it close with a 6-iron. 
 7 was 7-iron to six metres. 
 8 was an 8-iron to pretty much close, a metre or so. 
 9, I was up in two and 2-putted from the fringe. 
 11, I actually pushed my approach and got it close there, as well. So another metre putt. 
 10, that was a 6-iron and I made a long putt there. Lucky break. It sort of jumped in on the final thing. 
 12 was a great 7-iron up to three metres and good putt. 
 And that's where the thoughts came up. 
 GORDON SIMPSON: You made a good two on 17, though. 
 MARTIN ERLANDSSON: 17 was a really, really good 5-iron, yeah, I knocked it to two metres. 
 GORDON SIMPSON: Congratulations on a wonderful round and should you win we'll have you back in here for a winner's conference. Well played. Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT