PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 19, 2007
Martin Erlandsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   SCOTT CROCKETT:  Thanks for coming in and joining us, as always.  Two good day and only one dropped shot and leader of the tournament.  You must be pleased with the first couple of days.   
 MARTIN ERLANDSSON:  Yeah, it was good.  Yesterday was fantastic and today was nervous to start off.   
 But overall I'm very happy.  I'm striking the ball good.  Putting is becoming better and better actually, so I'm hoping to get a good rhythm over the weekend, as well.   
 SCOTT CROCKETT:  Just four birdies today, give us the details.  You birdied the third, your first one.   
 MARTIN ERLANDSSON:  Third I played a great bunker shot to two metres and made that putt.   
 5, I laid up and played a 9-iron from 105 metres, really close, to three metres maybe.   
 10 I pitched my wedge up and made a five-metre putt.   
 12, pitched it in there to three metres again and made that putt.   
 SCOTT CROCKETT:  Any more chances on the way in?   
 MARTIN ERLANDSSON:  Yeah, I left a few putts short on the final four holes or so on the way in.  But overall, I'm happy.   
  
  Q.  Have you made any changes to your putting?   
MARTIN ERLANDSSON:  No, I've been using the same thing for two years now and it's working well.   
  
  Q.  Your performance yesterday afternoon -- with the conditions this morning, were they tougher?   
 MARTIN ERLANDSSON:  Yeah, it was a little bit windy but I was more concerned about with the greens because they were a bit soft.  It was soft when we played Tuesday and Wednesday, but I expected the worst.  It was actually pretty good.  If you expect the worst, it may be okay if you get out there.   
  
  Q.  When you say you expect the worst, what does that mean?   
 MARTIN ERLANDSSON:  Well, I expected a bit of spike marks and bumpy sort of putts.  But I didn't read them really that much so that might help that much.   
  
  Q.  What do you mean when you say the greens are soft?   
MARTIN ERLANDSSON:  Frosty.   
  
  Q.  Frosty?   
 MARTIN ERLANDSSON:  Well, I don't know, I strike the putt really, really good, so I didn't think about it that much.  Just two greens maybe that affected my putts.   
  
  Q.  Plan for the weekend?   
MARTIN ERLANDSSON:  Doing my thing, really, and trust what I'm doing and not trying to do anything more than I actually can do.   
  
  Q.  Watching what the others are doing more?   
 MARTIN ERLANDSSON:  Yeah, a little bit maybe.  It's a little bit like a comfort zone, as well.  I'm a little bit outside my comfort zone.  So it will be new and fresh for me to be in contention, but I think I know that I can play well there, or I've got the game for it, anyway.   
  
  Q.  Have you expected --   
 MARTIN ERLANDSSON:  Well, from going up, I heard it all the time, that I've got a good swing and good rhythm, so I'm actually used to hearing it; or why are you not playing better, you've got a good game.   
 So it's been a little bit frustrating during the years but hopefully I can understand that myself.   
  
  Q.  Would you like the course to play a bit tougher perhaps?   
 MARTIN ERLANDSSON:  Actually I like the game when you go out there and you can aim for a few pins and play aggressive with your wedges and putt well.   
 But at least now, it feels like the greens are firming up pretty good out there.  A couple of pins today, just really didn't aim it.  Just played safe and tried to make a long putt.  I think the course is getting tougher and tougher actually.   
  
  Q.  Is there a score in your own mind you would like to get to?   
 MARTIN ERLANDSSON:  Yesterday, I thought it was 24- or 25-under but I think it's gone to 21 or something.   
  
  Q.  When you say do your own thing, what --   
 MARTIN ERLANDSSON:  Well, it's a little bit like trying maybe a shot that you don't really have in your bag yet.  It's a little bit like -- well, I'm practising a lot and having a lot of control and maybe not hitting that shot over weekend.   
  
  Q.  Not trying to play --   
 MARTIN ERLANDSSON:  How can I explain -- it's be sure in what you've got, and that's really good enough.  I'm not trying to -- like I need to play the perfect game here to shoot under par or whatever.   
 But my game is good enough to maybe go under par.  That's what needs to be in my head.   
  
  Q.  Target at the start of the year?   
 MARTIN ERLANDSSON:  Yeah, victory would be nice, that's always been the target.  I never let go of that --   
  
  Q.  Good finish at Johnnie Walker.   
MARTIN ERLANDSSON:  Yeah, had a nice finish there.   
  
  Q.  Is it getting easier every year on Tour or is it getting more difficult?   
 MARTIN ERLANDSSON:  More and more easier I would say, because I'm getting used to the courses we play.  I played six years on the Challenge Tour, and those courses were a little bit easier off the tees.   
 Now I've developed my game, as well, to the courses.  I'm not saying it getting easier and easier, but everything around.   
 SCOTT CROCKETT:  Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT