PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 18, 2007
Martin Erlandsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Tell us about your day.   
 MARTIN ERLANDSSON:  Where shall I start?  It was a nice day today.  The greens weren't great, but I managed to hit a few wedges pretty close so it was nice.   
  
  Q.  So the greens were great or weren't great?   
 MARTIN ERLANDSSON:  They were great, actually.  I thought they would be worse because they were a bit soft in practise rounds.  But they were holding the lines pretty good.   
  
  Q.  Presumably pretty soft, you can just launch the ball in there and they all stop?   
 MARTIN ERLANDSSON:  Yeah, it's nice to have that feeling and to go for the pin and make it stop, so it's nice.   
  
  Q.  When you've shot low rounds this season, and it is a very low one, but did it feel like it was going to be more exceptionally low at one stage?   
 MARTIN ERLANDSSON:  Well, I missed a short one, my third hole, and 3-putted 7 or something.  Otherwise it was spot-on, so I can't complain that much, but left a few.   
  
  Q.  But most areas of the game of working well?   
 MARTIN ERLANDSSON:  Yeah, I'm striking the ball good and putting is getting better and better.   
  
  Q.  We've spoken about how much more comfortable you were feeling because in the previous years, you were fretting about cards and now you have it sorted and you can enjoy it a bit more.   
 MARTIN ERLANDSSON:  Yeah, I'm trying to enjoy it as much as I can and trying to push myself a little bit outside of the comfort zone.  Finishing 25th or 30th, that's my comfort zone.  So maybe try and go a bit further up, at least that's the next challenge.   
  
  Q.  Which in itself is pretty satisfying, isn't it, when you know that comfort is a very good finish like that, you still get frustrated with it.   
 MARTIN ERLANDSSON:  Yeah, yeah, it's good, and I know the game is there.  I just need to relax about it and enjoy it and play my game.  It sounds easy to do but once you are out there, the brain starts to work, or not work as it should be.  That is a different thing.   
  
  Q.  So having shot a 64, in conditions when perhaps the greens were not as perfect as they were from the first thing this morning, what do you reckon the winning score is going to be or the target even for a second round?   
 MARTIN ERLANDSSON:  Well, we'll see.  I'll take every day as it is.  We'll see.  It's possible to make good scores out there.  There's a couple of opportunities with wedges and a couple of par 5s that we can reach, as well.   
 So I think it's going to be some good scoring.   
  
  Q.  Well, even if it's not as a target for yourself, can you imagine what the winning score might be in the weather stays like this?   
 MARTIN ERLANDSSON:  If it stays like this, it's probably 25 or 26, I reckon.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT