HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
February 27, 2010
Momoko Ueda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: Momoko, thank you for coming in. You're 5-under par overall and you shot 68 today, so nice round. 
 MOMOKO UEDA: Thank you. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: If you would, just tell us how you played today.
 MOMOKO UEDA: I'm not feeling well but I think I kept myself together for the last hole, so it was a good round. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Are you just feeling sick or just not feeling well in your game.
 MOMOKO UEDA: Well, I was sick from last week, and so that's why I tried to make like a stronger shot, and then I hurt my muscle. 
 So it just turned out like I hit a strong shot but I have my physical trainer that's been taking care of me, so it's been getting better and better every day. 

 Q. How close are you with Ai Miyazato, and how intense is the competition between the two of you to be the No. 1 Japanese player?
 MOMOKO UEDA: Well, Ai has always been my mentor and she is one of the most respected golfers for me, also. And Ai is always in the Top-10 playing in the Top-10 on the last day, and I'm hoping to join them sometime soon, and so I'm very excited about it. Last week she won, but this time I'm really hoping to win. 

 Q. What do you think of --
 MOMOKO UEDA: It's better than Thailand. 

 Q. (What has been the key for you this week).
 MOMOKO UEDA: Well, I have a good feeling in my golf, and also I practise a lot in the off-season; and also the experience from the last two years will probably make me more confident. 
 I feel -- my putting feels good, too. That's why. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: And where is the injury? 
 MOMOKO UEDA: In the right foot. 

 Q. (Regarding Japanese players on the rise).
 MOMOKO UEDA: Of course I think this is a key year for Japanese golfers. I also think this tournament is a major for the Asian Tour because the course is very tough and the competition is tough and there are like so many Japanese players playing this week, and they are hoping to give good energy to outside of Japan by playing well. 
 Many golfers, many Japanese golfers are starting to come to LPGA tournaments. 

 Q. Do you know Ishikawasan, and can you tell me what you think of him and what he has done for men's golf in Japan; and what you and Ai are doing for women's golf in Japan, is it similar? 
 MOMOKO UEDA: Ryo I think is very similar to Ai, because they are both going out of side Japan and luck any in Japan, both women's and men's golf are very popular now, so it's good. 

 Q. Do you know each other? 
 MOMOKO UEDA: Yes. I played with Ryo with this TV programme; there's one tournament in Japan like the top five golfers from the men's tour, ladies tour, senior tour playing together, and we played last year. And I think Ryo is more inspired from Ai because -- to become the pioneer for Japanese golfers. 

 Q. (Regarding low score today).
 MOMOKO UEDA: I build momentum when I make five birdies. And also I made three bogeys in a row, and that's one of my like bad habits, you know, making bogeys one after another. 
 Right now I feel I can set my mind like every hole, and that's why I can make the round today. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Thank you, Momoko. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT