NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: SABRES v STARS
June 10, 1999
Brett Hull
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 BRETT HULL: That is kind of like one of my goals. Before I got here where I just kind
of hung out and found a spot. It is nice to get those big ones. 
 
Q. Were you going upstairs on that one?
 
 BRETT HULL: Most of my shots when I was with St. Louis all those years, I just buried
my head and shoot it hard. Harder you shoot it you have a little more chance of it going
it. I guess it is like swinging a golf club; you have got more of a chance of hitting
it..... 
 
Q. What about going to Buffalo now, you guys are tied at a game and they are very good
up there, they are 7 and 0?
 
 BRETT HULL: Yeah, but it is the Finals and I think it is a bit of a different animal
right now. We have got to go up there and play hard. We are a pretty damn good road team
too. I don't think you are going to see much different than what you saw in these two
games. 
 
Q. If Michael Modano can't play these next two games you are you are going to have to
change your approach a little bit?
 
 BRETT HULL: Well, I am not going to play center, so I don't know. That is something we
are going to have to talk about tomorrow and the next day. I don't know the status on Mike
at all. 
 
Q. Can you recall a bigger goal?
 
 BRETT HULL: No, I can't right now. Not that I can right off the top of my head think
of, no. 
 
Q. You said a few minutes ago about taking it to another level. Are you talking about
Buffalo forcing you to?
 
 BRETT HULL: I think it is a little bit of everything. You have got a great team playing
out there. You have to in the Finals if you want to win, it is a cliche, but nothing
worthwhile is easy and you have to sacrifice the most.... 
 
Q. Are they the quickest team you have played?
 
 BRETT HULL: I don't know there are quick teams; there are quick puck movement teams.
They are very quick. They are very well coached and I think that is the thing you probably
hate playing against most is a well coached team because you can have the best -- you can
have the quickest guys in the world but if they are all over the place, they are easy to
beat. 
 
Q. Is this what you imagined doing for this team when you signed here?
 
 BRETT HULL: I don't think whether it is me or whether it is Brian Skrudland or
Carbonneau or Modano or anybody else, those are the kind of goals anybody wants to get. I
think there is just some people that play a different game, or have a different sense of
the game to get those opportunities, but, yeah it is. 
 
Q. Didn't you score the winner in the World Cup?
 
 BRETT HULL: That was a tyre. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT