VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 31, 2019
Riley Neal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Georgia - 30, Vanderbilt - 6   
 Q.  Riley, how do you feel your first start?  
RILEY NEAL: I mean, we'll see how I'm feeling tomorrow. Obviously, we've got struggles at times, but it's hard to tell until you see it on film.   
 Q.  One of your passes were short. You checked down quite a bit. Was that by design, or is that just what you saw with the coverage that you needed to?  
RILEY NEAL: Generally, you just try and take what the defense gives you. Each play is different, so it's hard to tell exactly what's going on in each one.   
 Q.  Can you walk us through the cornerback competition with Deuce and how you were able to kind of let it go against him?  
RILEY NEAL: It's just like any other camp. We split reps. Me and Deuce are super close, very healthy competition. I took the reps when they told me I was in. Deuce did it for him, and that's how it played itself out.   
 Q.  When do you think you ended up getting the job?  
RILEY NEAL: That's more for the coaches to decide. I just go in when they tell me to during camp and just kind of work from there.   
 Q.  Riley, a lot of changes on the offensive line leading up to this game and a couple of scratches before the game. How does that change your preparation?  
RILEY NEAL: I don't think it necessarily changes preparation. We watch film all week and prepare for blitzes they have and what protection we have. Who's out there isn't exactly what changes it. It's more what look they present us, I think.   
 Q.  Riley, I know you've gone through spring with these receivers and tight ends and preseason camp and all that, but what do you think you can learn from actually playing a game and building chemistry off of that? What do you think you're going to see on film that's going to help you?  
RILEY NEAL: I'm pretty comfortable with the chemistry I have with these guys. I've been here since December. I think the chemistry is always ever growing, but you can't -- you know, the game is just a little different feel. It's hard to get that type of thing in practice. So it was good to get some of those in. I'm hoping to just progress as the year goes on.   
 Q.  I know you played a ton of games. You played against Big Ten teams and Notre Dame and all that, really good teams. What do you think about the fact that your first game here is against the No. 3 team in the country? That's got to be kind of daunting.  
RILEY NEAL: When you're playing in the SEC, I don't think -- it's just part of it. There's not any games that you just go into and have a win. It takes a lot each week. So it's just kind of part of it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT