NIT POSTSEASON CHAMPIONSHIP
April 1, 2014
Devon Bookert
Leonard Hamilton
Okaro White
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









    COACH HAMILTON:   I think you've got to give Minnesota a lot of credit because in the first part of the game, they might have been hit the first four or five threes that they put up, and all of them went not uncontested.   Several of them were defended very well.   We've had several games this year where we've shot the ball like that, and sometimes when a team gets in a zone like that, hitting the ball from the three, it can take your confidence away from you. 
    I was very proud of our guys that we were able to fight back and put ourselves in a position where we had‑‑ when I looked up at after time, and I felt that they had just shot their lights out, I looked down and they were shooting 38 percent from the floor overall, which gave me a little confidence that if we came out and executed and took care of the ball, which we did not do, we would put ourselves in a position to win. 
    It's hard to play in a championship tournament like this, and make 18 turnovers against a team that's shooting very well.   I think they made seven threes in the first half and only had two the second half. 
    But I thought they hit some big free throws down the stretch that I thought really just kept us at bay.   I was really proud of our kids that even though we played uncharacteristically in the first half, we bounced back. 
    Our guys were a little overanxious, I thought we were pressing a little bit and made some poor decisions.   I thought we settled down there and had a nice stretch in the second half that put us in position where we had a chance to win.   We just came up a little short against a team that really, really I thought played exceptionally well. 

Q.   I know it's hard to look at it now but what has this season been like for you? 
    COACH HAMILTON:   Well, we've made tremendous progress as a team.   I mean, to have five sophomores and a couple freshmen that are getting indoctrinated.   We had a couple seniors on the team that they have been around when we won the championship, been to a couple NCAA Sweet 16s and to the NCAA Tournament.
    I was proud of the leadership they gave us and I think we've set the tone for the upcoming season.   We have an outstanding recruiting class and we have our nucleus coming back.   I expect us to continue to improve.   We have had some injuries that we've had to overcome.   We lost our starting center at the beginning of the year, he didn't play at all, and had to battle through several injuries.
    But through all of it, I thought we bounced back and showed a tremendous amount of, can a.   I think this year will be a springboard for us to continue keep moving our program in the right direction. 

Q.   Devon, can you talk about the three‑point shot and just the transition and momentum it might have given you in overtime? 
    DEVON BOOKERT:   Up the court, the first shot that was available and just ran a drive three and got past the drag three and just shot it. 

Q.   Can you just talk about Aaron tonight, was it just an off‑night for him or were they doing something rough on him?
    COACH HAMILTON:   I think Aaron was pressing a little bit.   I thought that‑‑ youngsters have a tendency to do that. Sometimes they want something so bad that they become mentally and emotionally excited, and they are telling themselves‑‑ I think it's one of those nights for him. 
    He's played tremendous all year long.   I thought tonight was just one of those nights that he really wanted it to happen for him so bad and for his team, I thought he was pressing a little bit, and that's part of the process young people go through. 
    But he's played so well this year and he's given us so many great moments, that we have no doubt in my mind that he'll bounce back.   Sometimes these types of situations will motivate you to work even harder and help you grow to become a better basketball player, and I'm sure that's what will be the case with him. 

Q.   Okaro, what have your years at Florida State meant for you?
    OKARO WHITE:   It's meant everything for me.   I've had a great four years on the court and off the court.   I've battled all four years, and I thank Florida State and thank everyone that had to do with our program, and great support staff, and so it's meant everything for me; life changing.

Q.   Was tonight emotional for you? 
    OKARO WHITE:   Yes, tonight was emotional for me, my last game ever in college.   Just the seniors, Ian was very emotional and Gilchrist was, also, so it was very emotional tonight. 

Q.   Just talk about the way your team played in the second half, coming out with a lot of momentum; how much of a springboard will it give the younger guys for next season? 
    OKARO WHITE:   We've got a great bunch, a great collective group of sophomores, very talented going into next season.   I think they will be prepared.   I think they will take the younger guys coming in next year under their wings. 
    I think they are really prepared for this.   So I thank them for fighting their behinds off in the second half and I thought they really showed maturity and a way to fight for the seniors these past couple of games. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT