NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v LAKERS
May 18, 2010
Lamar Odom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   LAMAR ODOM: Just play my game, still play a little bit.  
  
  Q. Did you hear what Stoudemire said; you had a lucky game last night?  
 LAMAR ODOM: No. What did he say?   
  
  Q. He said you had a lucky game last night.   
 LAMAR ODOM: So be it. Hopefully I can have another lucky one.  
  
  Q. Actually said he wasn't trying to give you any more hype because you had --  
 LAMAR ODOM: What's that?   
  
  Q. Got a little bit testy when he talked about how good a game you were having.   
 LAMAR ODOM: Just go out there and play.   
  
  Q. How much has the time off helped you; you had a couple of injuries?   
 LAMAR ODOM: It's this time of year, it helps everyone. Getting your head, work on your weaknesses, realize your game with your body. Get focused on what you need to do. Just kind of trying to stay in that zone.  
  
  Q. Could you see in their eyes if they were frustrated?  
 LAMAR ODOM: I mean, we just came out, just did what we wanted to do, defended the 3-point line. We didn't give up too many second opportunities. We didn't turn the ball over much. And each and every one of us played efficient basketball last night. So that helps.  
  
  Q. The way you played the last couple of years, the style of play is conducive to success.   
 LAMAR ODOM: I just go out there and play whatever the matchup is. I just try to be as efficient as possible with the game, do all the small things, catch the ball, made a basket, put it in.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 LAMAR ODOM: It was good. It could be better. Hopefully I can have another lucky one.  
  
  Q. Obviously not being able to put up the numbers, you'll have to do this the rest of the playoffs you think with the numbers and the time and all that stuff?  
 LAMAR ODOM: I don't know. I pretty much played the same amount of time I've been playing, coming at the five-minute mark in the first and third quarter. Ended however the game is going, flow determines how much I'm going to play. I can just -- I guess a series like this, spreading the floor, it's a good time for me to come and buy some time with this injury so he can just get better.  
  
  Q. How difficult will it be to match that level of efficiency that he has?  
 LAMAR ODOM: Just be as intense, as focused and play. Good or bad game play.  
  
  Q. [Question about exceptions on role, coming off the bench, exploding]?  
 LAMAR ODOM: I've always accepted my role and done what's asked of me and just went out there and played my game.  
  
  Q. [Question about getting into the flow of things]?  
 LAMAR ODOM: I feel good. Just took my time and played. Tomorrow we'll have a different conversation. I could not make shots. I'll just go out there and play hard. That will be my focus.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT