NBA FINALS: MAGIC v LAKERS
June 7, 2009
Lamar Odom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q. Tell us how you felt tonight in your performance. Did you feel more energized? Did you feel that you would have to come out and take up the slack with Andrew getting in foul trouble? 
 LAMAR ODOM: Just was focused on the game and wanted to perform well, wanted to make the game hard for Rashard Lewis. I didn't do a good job with that in the first half. I kind of lost him a couple times, lost him on some rotations. I just had to stay involved in the game and help off the ball and try to make some plays defensively. I felt really comfortable and really confident in my shot. 

 Q. Tell us about going back to Orlando. With the two-game win now going back to Orlando, them having home court, tell us what your expectations are and the level of intensity that will be required for the Lakers to win back there. 
 LAMAR ODOM: Of course we know how it is to play on the road in The Finals, with having to -- we played Boston last year, so we know what to expect. We've just got to take it possession by possession, take care of the basketball, don't turn it over, shoot well from the free-throw line and let our game do the talking. 

 Q. Can you talk about the significance of holding on to home court here, winning both the games. Obviously the series isn't decided after the first two games, but history certainly gives the huge advantage to a team that can win both at home, the first two. 
 LAMAR ODOM: We wanted to win this game just to keep the pressure on them. Both teams want this. It was is tough for us last year, getting embarrassed in Boston. I guess with this win, we kind of kept that pressure on. But we still have to take care of business, like I said, just focus on each possession. 
 It's tough on the road, and they're going to be comfortable at home. We've got three games out there. Hopefully we can just take it possession by possession. 

 Q. Can you talk about your rotations defensively. When Bynum came out, it looked like you and Pau really communicated very well, you switched very well on Howard, and it seemed like you guys were still able to get back. How do you feel about the way you guys rotated down low and defended the line. 
 LAMAR ODOM: I think we did a much better job last game. This game we had a couple breakdowns, and you can't give Turkoglu and Lewis open looks because it kind of gets them going and they start putting the ball on the floor, they start making plays, and next thing you know they start making these tough threes, these tough jumpers with the time running down on the shot clock. We have to run those guys off their shots at the beginning of the game. They did a great job of getting those threes up. 
 You know, me and Pau have a lot of experience. Experience is the best teacher of them all. We played in The Finals, went to The Finals, I guess only in a half a season of basketball with each other, and we have a strong connection.

 Q. Is it tough on that sag because you're sagging low when Howard is out there. Is it tough to get out of that?
 LAMAR ODOM: Any time you've got a guy like that rolling to the basket, if you don't catch them, then they hit for a dunk. You have to chuck him as hard as possible and get to a shooter like Rashard Lewis, and even Turkoglu is tough. But the job has to get done, we don't have a choice. 

 Q. Just a couple weeks ago your back was really tender, you had that big bruise. Were you ever frustrated, think you wouldn't be able to get back up to the effort you had the last couple games?
 LAMAR ODOM: Nothing in my life has been easy, like from day one. I don't expect it. I've got a nice big house, I expect the door to break. I expect something to go wrong. That's life. 
 I look down today and I see I played 45 minutes, Kobe played 48. He's always hurt, Pau is hurt. That's the way it is. I'm an athlete. I have to just take care of myself, get better. I feel better. I'm tired as hell, excuse my language. I'm tight, my back is tight, go home and eat, massage, sleep, and just get ready to go and play Orlando. 

 Q. Has it been a profound bamboo sort of flavor, a bend, do not break mentality, you guys have to be ready for that, but you locked in for probably the two biggest free throws of your life. What was going through your mind when you buried both free throws? 
 LAMAR ODOM: Actually nothing.

 Q. That's perfect. 
 LAMAR ODOM: You know, as an athlete sometimes that's the best thing that you can do is not think. It's a muscle memory thing, let that take over. I've been playing for how many years, right, practicing for eight months. How many free throws did I sink in practice? I just got up there, three dribbles, get it up and let my muscle memory take over.

 Q. Talk about the Spaniard Pau Gasol making so many plays in the fourth quarter plus overtime. 
 LAMAR ODOM: Incredible. His hand-eye coordination is remarkable for someone that size. He never drops the ball. He's great at catching and delivering really quick, keeping the basketball high. He's one of the best players I've ever played with. 

 Q. So you're not a selfish guy. I've talked to you before about this, so I'm going to ask you, when you're scoring as efficiently, you said you were very comfortable in your shot tonight, can you call for it more or try to get more touches, more offensive looks, or do you just get it let go and is that not on your mind in that situation? 
 LAMAR ODOM: You've got Kobe Bryant and Pau Gasol, those guys are perennial All-Stars. I know the offense, I know how to find my way through the offense and get those shots and make them when they count, and all I have to do is get the defense leaning to me and then Pau and Kobe get it going. There's going to be some nights I just have to be efficient. I got nine shots, I want to make eight. It was just one of those games. I've got to just take advantage when my opportunity comes. 

 Q. Orlando was able to jack up 30 three-point shots. What do you have to do to limit their touches beyond the arc?
 LAMAR ODOM: That's part of the offense. That's who they are. You've got to deal with Dwight Howard or he'll get 40. It's tough. You have to be able to run them off those shots. Some of them they're going to make. After the first half we came in the locker room and we thought the three kept them in the game. That's the way it is. 
 We have to stop the Big Fella. They're a smart team. We get the ball to him first. They'd make it easy if they just got threes and gave him the ball. But when it goes in, you have to dig it out. Turkoglu and Lewis are 6'9".

 Q. What's the best way to deny them? 
 LAMAR ODOM: Like I said, when the ball goes in to Howard, you've got to double. When you double, somebody is open. They do a good job at kicking it out and swing, swing, and one of those laps happened to be open. They did a good job today of hitting the long ball. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT