NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: NUGGETS v LAKERS
May 28, 2009
Lamar Odom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. I know you're fighting through it, and you're a gamer and you want to be out there, but can you give us an idea how you are feeling?  
 LAMAR ODOM: You know, everybody's a little banged up at this point in the year, point in the season. But it's something you just gotta deal with.  
  
  Q. How different is your pregame routine right now, is it what you have to do to get loose or get ready?  
 LAMAR ODOM: I do a lot of stretching at home before I lay down and take my nap. Try to work out as much as possible to try to keep everything else strong. Fortunately I don't have any tendonitis or anything like that this year. I've been able to stay away from that. Other than my back, I feel pretty good.  
  
  Q. Did you have anything drained yesterday or the day before?  
 LAMAR ODOM: No, not drained. Just trying to get better each and every day with treatment, a lot of ice.  
  
  Q. Is it feeling better? Is it just the same?  
 LAMAR ODOM: It's not going to get better until I stop playing, you know. The banging and the pounding. But like I said, everybody's either hurt or change of the weather, sick, something right now. Just something I gotta do.  
  
  Q. Carmelo said yesterday after the game when you're playing that way, it's a special, special playmaker; do you feel you're a difference-maker on this team?  
 LAMAR ODOM: I like to think so. But last night was a good game for me as far as rebounding and scoring. And hopefully I can keep it going so I can help this team, hopefully close out.  
  
  Q. Lamar, with the pain and the suffering that you've gone through, did you prove anything to yourself last night?  
 LAMAR ODOM: Yes. I mean, I guess so. I wasn't playing well. And I had to ask myself: Am I pushing through it enough? Am I holding back because I'm in pain? And before the game I just said no matter what I'm just going to push through it, whether the ball goes in, I miss shots, I make shots, and I was able to do that.   
  
  Q. You have another one in you like that for tomorrow?  
 LAMAR ODOM: I'd like to think so.  
  
  Q. Talk about what it takes to close Denver out?  
 LAMAR ODOM: It's going to be tough. The crowd's going to really get into it early. They're going to be scrapping and fighting for their lives. That's a tough team. They are well-coached. They're disciplined a lot more than what people give them credit for. And they have talent as well.   
 And it's going to be really tough to close them out. But we're going to have to really execute our offense and think defense first.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT