NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: NUGGETS v LAKERS
May 24, 2009
Lamar Odom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. So, Lamar, can you talk a little bit about the mindset of your team right now compared to what it was 24 hours ago?  
 LAMAR ODOM: I don't think it's different. Just try to find a way to win. Stay resilient. Mentally tough. Defense, defensive-minded. Try to move the ball twice as much and, of course, get it to Kobe.  
  
  Q. One of the goals, steal one in the other team's court. One does that, obviously I guess it changes it a little bit?  
 LAMAR ODOM: We don't want to have any letdowns, and we'll be playing tomorrow's game and trying to win it. We want to win two here.  
  
  Q. How hard is it to guard against that letdown?  
 LAMAR ODOM: Not hard at all. We thought we had one in Houston after winning the first one there, getting blown out on the second game. So we've been down that road. And we're trying not to go back there.  
  
  Q. Did you guys do anything differently guarding Melo last night?  
 LAMAR ODOM: I think as a team probably rotated to him a little quicker than let him get as deep in the paint especially in the second half. 18 first half points and we kept him off the offensive ladders.  
  
  Q. Basically a formula for road victory, hang in, execute, right?  
 LAMAR ODOM: Well, of course especially with a team like this, you want to stay within the game, make it a two or three-possession game the whole game. And then, of course, it's up for grabs in the fourth quarter.  
  
  Q. Kenyon on that ball, any thoughts from Game 1?  
 LAMAR ODOM: Just trying to get in the passing lane. It's a little different, especially taking the ball from underneath the basket, especially after the score and run. And he's kind of stuck in place.   
 Now you can get your hands in the passing lane, allow these guys, especially Trevor, he's so great at anticipating some of the passes, that we were able to team up twice and get two steals on. Big inbounds plays.  
  
  Q. Is that always your role to be the guy guarding your inbound?  
 LAMAR ODOM: The lineup we have, it depends on who they have taking it out as well. And I just wanted to make it hard for them as possible. I was able to do that. But all the credit goes to Trevor.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 LAMAR ODOM: You never know. This kid could be a cornerback, Trevor Ariza, the way he jumps the rings.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT