NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: NUGGETS v LAKERS
May 20, 2009
Lamar Odom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   LAMAR ODOM: Individual defense, it was the same defense. I mentioned defensively our transition. Makes us a lot quicker.

 Q. Did it happen that those areas be an issue?
 LAMAR ODOM: I mean, he asked -- the strength of this team is our deck. But what he brings, he gives us so much that he makes us -- we were able to match up with any team because of him, whether you frame it two, become a better ball handler, shooter, especially long distance. He just gives us another dimension, of course, that if we didn't have we'd be slacking a little bit.

 Q. How much more (indiscernible)?
 LAMAR ODOM: Always need to play well. You know, a lot of the buckets that they score were off penetration, not back-to-the-basket, one-on-one, post-up moves. They were able to penetrate and get those guys open and that's why they were able to get numbers. Going to rebound as well. 
 I can't remember one play where they isolated somebody, made a move and got a bucket. The game moved fast. Me and Drew got in foul trouble. So, you know, we need production from everyone.

 Q. The three of you are productive, help the team that much more?
 LAMAR ODOM: Of course. We're hard to beat. You know, just defense, productive, we're hard to beat. Again, that was one game, you know what I'm saying? Games that we've won throughout this playoff, these playoff series, they were very productive for the most part.

 Q. Slot one advantage, the differential on the rebounding, what's it going to take? You're going to need -- that --
 LAMAR ODOM: You answered your question. (Laughter).

 Q. Can you explain how having that, winning that battle is going to --
 LAMAR ODOM: We watch the tape they do a good job rotating, swinging that ball, swinging that ball, taking an open shot. Most likely got guys on the balls, and of course second-chance opportunities are big in the playoffs, especially in games (indiscernible) can keep you in games, basically.

 Q. You've always been philosophical about these games. Is Game 2 in the series going to be like Game 1? 
 LAMAR ODOM: I think so. I think it will be hard -- this team is talented, athletic. They are well-coached. Their defensive discipline has stepped up, and I think it will be all four games. 
 And hopefully we can just wear them out down there, and our ability to bring guys in and make shots and make defensive plays.

 Q. We've all seen they added Chauncey Billups and the discipline he brought. But as a guy on the court, the team you swept minus Chauncey, is it something he's brought or is it more mature?
 LAMAR ODOM: It's bringing a mature process. It's like bringing in a great quarterback to a team. The belief, the faith that they have in him that he can help them win. That definitely rubbed off on them and it's obvious.

 Q. It's interesting you say the faith, because that's the thing, you guys potentially have a chance if you beat them twice it puts more doubt in their mind, does it not?
 LAMAR ODOM: Well, if we take Game 2, yes, it's a possibility. But we've still got to go out there and play basketball and you know we were lucky at kind of staying in that game. I wouldn't say lucky. We fought hard. But to stay in that game and not give up and get one down the stretch was -- I mean, they're a tough team. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT