NBA FINALS: LAKERS v CELTICS
June 15, 2008
Lamar Odom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How much easier did you find it physically with Kendrick Perkins out of the lineup?
 LAMAR ODOM: It's definitely not easier. Those guys are still banging. Of course, this was the close-out game. They wanted to close it out tonight. It's not easy, and I don't expect it to be, not at this point anyway. 

 Q. Can you talk about your effort tonight, 20 points, 11 boards, two assists, four blocks? 
 LAMAR ODOM: Tried to stay focused throughout the game. I thought last game that I played, I thought I didn't make enough plays down in the fourth quarter. Just wanted to stay focused, make plays throughout the game. 
 You know, I'm really focusing on my jump shot and the way I'm shooting the ball. I feel really good about letting the ball go from anywhere on the court right now. Just taking it game by game.

 Q. Was it a concerted effort to finish as you started in this game?
 LAMAR ODOM: Yeah, 100 percent. This is a game we wanted to -- we were focused on. We didn't want to see any Champaign popping like that. We were focused tonight and were able to close the game out tonight.

 Q. Based on your second half, did it weigh on you the last couple days how they were able to finish that last game? Did it propel you tonight?
 LAMAR ODOM: How we finished as a team? I thought tonight was different because we were able to stay aggressive for longer periods of time and scrap it out for longer periods of time, and I thought that was the key for winning this game and fighting off every run they went on. 

 Q. Team looked very sharp coming out in the fourth quarter, built up a 16-point lead in the first half. After the emotional abyss, how did you guys bond together to come out of that so quickly?
 LAMAR ODOM: It was easy. After watching that tape of that last game, seeing how we came out before, we knew it was important for us to come out, especially in the first and third quarters. Tonight we were able to do that. We expected them to go on a run. They still made it a close game. We expect a fight from those guys. I mean, they're tough. They're a tough-minded team. We expect a fight, and we just have to fight long and hard. 

 Q. How do you explain the lack of consistency on your part? You'll have the great quarter and then all of a sudden you'll disappear in terms of even-shot attempts. How do you explain that?
 LAMAR ODOM: Say the question again.

 Q. You heard me --
 LAMAR ODOM: I didn't hear you.

 Q. How do you explain the lack of consistency? You can dominate a game for a period of time and then all of a sudden you seem to disappear. 
 LAMAR ODOM: That's how the game went, especially the last game. I don't expect to take 30 or 40 shots on this team. I'm, of course, playing with the best perimeter player in the game, best player in the game with Kobe Bryant, the presence of Pau Gasol, so I just do a great job at trying to clean up the scraps and stay aggressive. 
 We have to execute our offense. It's not about me right now and how aggressive I'm being offensively because I'm aggressive throughout the game as far as loose balls and rebounding is concerned. So I'm just focused right now. The shots that I'm taking I'm just trying to make. 

 Q. It's becoming increasingly clear that the Celtics aren't going to let Kobe take over the game as far as getting his own points. How important is it and how key is it for the Lakers and how prepared are you guys to take over the scoring in the closing minutes? 
 LAMAR ODOM: Well, we're very prepared because we know we're going to have to do that. I'm looking at the scoring today. I mean, we're not going to beat them if it's not balanced, so it's going to help him free his game up at the end of the game if it's balanced scoring because guys tend to stick with you a little bit more when you've been aggressive throughout the game. 
 So I think it's important we stay aggressive throughout the game. He's going to have spots to take over, but yet it's going to help us take shots at the end of the game just from being aggressive throughout the game. 

 Q. It looks like it's getting a little more physical for you, having some choice words with some players. Is it getting to be even a bigger brawl down there? At one point it looked like you were about to square up towards the end. 
 LAMAR ODOM: Uh-uh, uh-uh, that's just talk. That happens. It's emotional out there, and we're fighting for position, fighting for the ball. That happens. You have to expect that, especially at this time of year. I mean, that's fun, though. Guys are just talking. 

 Q. Talk about how Lakers were able to keep KG under his playoff average in points and how important that was tonight. 
 LAMAR ODOM: Well, we doubled him as much as possible. If you don't, he's going to get his average, whatever his average may be. You talk about one of the best players who plays the position, especially a power forward or a center or whatever you want to call him. We have to double-team him and take the ball out of his hands. Anything else, he's going to get his numbers, he's going to get his touches. He had 14 points, still had 13 rebounds. You've just got to double-team him as much as possible.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT