NBA FINALS: LAKERS v CELTICS
June 11, 2008
Lamar Odom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   LAMAR ODOM: We have to do it as individuals and as a team. We found a way, we proved to ourselves that we can win ugly games. I guess we have to take that positive from anything else that's negative that's happening. 

 Q. From an individual standpoint --
 LAMAR ODOM: I know I can play better. Scoring 14 and then 10 and not having the opportunity to not stay on the court, probably fouling too much, which would contribute to our scoring slump, I guess, if you can call it that.

 Q. What kind of adjustments could you make to get more points on the board?
 LAMAR ODOM: I'd have to stay aggressive offensively, but I guess offensively, play with a high IQ. 

 Q. (Inaudible). 
 LAMAR ODOM: Like I said, you have to persevere. Right now it's about the LA Lakers, not Lamar Odom. If I can just stay on the court to help the team do whatever, whether it's rebounding or making plays, whatever it may be, but I just have to stay on the court so I can help this team, and then I'll just take it from there.

 Q. You talked about winning ugly, how that was important. Do you think that your team (Inaudible)?
 LAMAR ODOM: I think so because people are used to seeing us score so many points, especially in the playoffs. I mean, they haven't had an outburst like 120-, 110-point game, so I think we're doing a pretty good job of defending them, as well. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 LAMAR ODOM: I wouldn't call them careless, but if I charge, I would call that careless. I think just trying to protect the rim as much as possible, the penetration, stepping up, trying to roll up, we're getting called for fouls. Maybe I need to be more aggressive and make a play on the ball rather than just roll up. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 LAMAR ODOM: I don't think so. I feel I was able to put the ball up nine times, still attack the goal towards the end of the game. I was about four or five assists, so I was still able to make plays there at the end of the game. It happens like that. You can't expect for every game to be a 20-point game in The Finals. Like I said, just persevering and finding a way to help the team. 
 I'll go watch the tape over and over again and just see what I can do throughout the game so when my scoring -- when the ball is not going down for me, what can I do to help the team win a basketball game.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 LAMAR ODOM: That's probably the most frustrating part, especially for someone that's used to playing heavy minutes. But it's part of the game, and you have to expect that. 

 Q. Have you and Phil talked about that?
 LAMAR ODOM: No, it's something I don't think we necessarily have to talk about. He knows what to expect from me, and I know what to expect from myself. I know what he expects of me, as well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT