NBA FINALS: LAKERS v CELTICS
June 7, 2008
Lamar Odom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. I was noticing that you weren't active. What was going on out there?
 LAMAR ODOM: Teacher's pet today, so I got to just watch just a little bit. I've got a couple parts of my body that just need to heal up a little bit, that's it.

 Q. What's ailing?
 LAMAR ODOM: I can't tell you, man. They might attack it.

 Q. Do you feel okay?
 LAMAR ODOM: Yeah, I'm cool. I'm cool. I'll be all right. I'll be ready to play.

 Q. So for you the two days off between games is actually better than one day?
 LAMAR ODOM: Yeah, right now I need it. You know, I'll be all right. 

 Q. Do you think the rest will affect Boston one way or another, Paul Pierce, Kendrick Perkins?
 LAMAR ODOM: No, rest at this point in time for someone that's ailing or hurting a little bit is good. You get to treat your injuries. Time is what the ailing players need right now. I guess I answered that question; they need that time.

 Q. You talked a little bit the other day about sight lines here in the Garden. Are they any different than any other arena? And do you have to get more time on the court to see the basket clearer?
 LAMAR ODOM: No, it's cool. Like I said, a basket is a basket, an arena is an arena. We've been playing all year, six months. It makes no difference, especially at this point of year. Everybody is focused. The basket makes no difference.

 Q. Nothing to do with shooting percentage in Game 1 and maybe Kobe going 9-for-26?
 LAMAR ODOM: It's a good defensive team. You have to adjust. Sometimes we're going to have to win ugly. It's not going to be 100-, 120-point games. This team defends well, and we're just going to have to adjust.

 Q. So do you think you'll have to win ugly tomorrow?
 LAMAR ODOM: Of course. That has to be our mindset, especially on the road. Basketball on the road is a little different, especially at playoff time. It's really physical, and I expect the game to be in the low 90s, mid 80s.

 Q. Do you prefer to get up and down the court and increase your fast breaks?
 LAMAR ODOM: Well, we're going to make those plays. If we rebound the ball, get on our passing lane, get our hands on the ball defensively, get some steals, try to make them turn the ball over as much as possible, we can do that. But that's definitely not going to be the pace of the game. It's not going to be like playing against Phoenix or a team that just runs and guns, or Dallas or one of those teams.

 Q. What do you do to pass the time in Boston?
 LAMAR ODOM: Just chill out. I've got friends here. My family is here, my kids are here. Just chill out, take my time. Probably going to see Kung Fu Panda, just chill out.

 Q. Can you recommend any good restaurants? 
 LAMAR ODOM: Nothing here. I mean, we went to this California Pizza kitchen, eating at the hotel. You know me. I'm here with my family and my kids. It's not all about fine dining right now. I'm eating well, it's cool. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT