NBA FINALS: LAKERS v CELTICS
June 6, 2008
Lamar Odom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What did the Celtics do differently in the fourth quarter?  
 LAMAR ODOM: I think they just out-scrapped us, lots of loose balls, rebounds, et cetera. They played with a sense of urgency. We have to meet that.  
  
  Q. Why wasn't there a sense of urgency for the Lakers?  
 LAMAR ODOM: Not to say there wasn't a sense of urgency. I think we got out-hustled a little bit. Of course there was a sense of urgency; we're in The Finals right now. Everyone is focused. I think the home crowd gave them momentum. We have to maintain energy at all times.  
  
  Q. How do they compare defensively against the other teams you've played so far in the playoffs?  
 LAMAR ODOM: They're good defensively. Of course they have length and size, but we were right there. I thought we did a good job at defending and taking some things away and getting some guys in foul trouble. They made a run and we were unable to combat it at the end of the game. But we're still confident and I believe we can defend and play with these guys.   
  
  Q. When Pierce went down did you expect him to come back?  
 LAMAR ODOM: I had no idea. I had no idea what happened. I didn't even see the play. I just saw someone go down. I didn't even know who it was, to tell you the truth. This is a team, and if one guy goes down, another guy steps up. They've been a great team all year, and I can't wait to see them on Sunday.  
  
  Q. Obviously you could see a sizable difference when Pierce came back into the game. Did you guys feel that, that the energy level kind of raised up?  
 LAMAR ODOM: I don't know if he hit those threes after --  
  
  Q. He did.   
 LAMAR ODOM: That gave him a lot of momentum.  
  
  Q. They out-rebounded you guys by 13 and they were real physical. How are you guys going to handle that?  
 LAMAR ODOM: Be just as physical. We have no choice. If you look at the tape, they really take the ball to the hole aggressively, and they rebound as a unit. I think Garnett was the only guy that had double-digit rebounds, but they rebounded more as a unit and they did it together.  
  
  Q. The first shot they missed, it seemed like Kendrick Perkins came crashing into somebody. Was that you?  
 LAMAR ODOM: Yeah, I mean, it's that type of game. You know, Garnett shot a shot that wasn't too far in distance and the ball came off wrong, so that happens. That didn't kill us, though; that wasn't the reason why we lost. In San Antonio we were out-rebounded, as well, and we wound up winning that series, so it's not something I'm worried about.  
  
  Q. Is there any reason why you only played half of the fourth quarter?  
 LAMAR ODOM: We lost. Sometimes you get beat. And they did a good job at beating us. I felt we did a good job of playing the first half. The second half I thought we could have executed a little better offensively, and I guess this team would have to do that, would have to move the ball, get everyone involved.   
  
  Q. When Kobe drifted out of the offense in the fourth quarter, he obviously decided it was time to take over the game. Was everyone compatible with that when you saw Kobe trying to take over?  
 LAMAR ODOM: I mean, I think so. You make some, you miss some. It's part of the game. But we have to do a better job at getting everyone involved throughout the game, so if he does go, we're right there to pick him up.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT