NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v LAKERS
May 24, 2010
Lamar Odom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		   LAMAR ODOM: Sometimes you just find a way. Hitting it hard in the weight room.

 Q. You had a night to sleep on it. Why more than anything else did you guys lose last night?
 LAMAR ODOM: We didn't do a good job at controlling the tempo right from the beginning. I think since the first quarter, we were kind of playing catchup, especially as far as the pace is concerned.
 We have to do a much better job at controlling things.

 Q. The zone obviously gave you guys trouble. Do you need to maybe go back to school on zone offense today?
 LAMAR ODOM: Again, take our time. Zone is putting the teams when they're saying they are having trouble stopping you. Again, we were right there. I think 90, 92, 96, 98. 90, 92, I think, going into the fourth quarter. So we were right there, doing all the things we need to do. So come back zone, start taking our time and getting stops, which helps because we can't set up the stops. 
 If we take care of the basketball and control the bench, we should be all right.

 Q. Says something about your confidence in the series that even in your loss, the two wins you guys won, took it away easily (indiscernible) and this one, the one you lost is close?
 LAMAR ODOM: Say it again.

 Q. Does it still help that Andrew's confidence, even in a loss, you're guys are pretty close? It's not like --
 LAMAR ODOM: Oh, yeah, we were right there. We were right there in the game. And the game was for everybody's to take. Like I said, they came out and they controlled the pace right from the beginning of the game. How they wanted to play and controlled the tempo.

 Q. When you were in the zone, Phil said you started to figure out, for the latter stage of the game --
 LAMAR ODOM: Shooting the ball in and out. You have to penetrate the zone rather than just swing it around the perimeter. When you're swinging around the perimeter, you want to just take a jump. You have to find a way to penetrate, break it down, and then kick it out. 

 Q. Is that going to be the biggest thing in Game 4?
 LAMAR ODOM: I think so. I think we might see a zone from the beginning, in the beginning. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT