NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v LAKERS
May 22, 2010
Lamar Odom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Lamar, sometimes people say it's a little harder for guys to come off the bench playing on the road. Maybe that's a difference between playing at home and on the road, benches maybe play a little different, home and road. Do you find that to be the case, a little harder coming off the bench on the road versus at home?  
 LAMAR ODOM: Statistically, if you look at teams in general, all right, the home team always seems to be the favorite. Shoots the ball well. Not just guys on the bench.   
 Hopefully we can carry the momentum over that we've been playing with at home on to their home court. I don't see why not.  
  
  Q. You guys haven't had a winning streak this long, quite frankly, since December. How do you compare the confidence, the drive now here in May winning 8 in a row compared to December?  
 LAMAR ODOM: We always remain confident. Never second-guessed ourselves. We come as a team. It was an uphill battle right from the start. Dealing with injuries and things of that nature.   
 Just the long haul over the last couple of seasons, playing for the championship. And we're right in position where we want to be at. That's the position to get there again.  
  
  Q. How do you explain the difference, Lamar, to where you stated a year ago, when you're trying to win a championship and buying into everything obviously Phil's teaching, to now defending it and trusting in the instincts?  
 LAMAR ODOM: I've always trusted. Even the first time we got there, when we lost, we got beat. But we always had trust in Phil, his philosophy. Of course, the offense that we run.   
 I mean, of course, there's a little difference when you're the hunted and doing the hunting. But I think it's never been better as men, as professionals, as basketball players.  
  
  Q. Phil talks about treating it as if you're going after a brand new title as opposed to defending one. Do you feel that way at this point; you mentioned being the hunted as opposed to the hunter?   
 LAMAR ODOM: Yeah, I mean, the last championship, the last one is over, it's behind us. The best team in the NBA will be the last team standing in the Jones. And hopefully we do all the things we need to do to be that team.  
  
  Q. As far as what you and the rest of the bench provided these past two games, what did you like most about the effort?  
 LAMAR ODOM: The energy. Our defense. Our ability to win the quarters and win the plus/minus when we're out there.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT