THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 9, 2018
Ekaterina Makarova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. GIORGI/E. Makarova
6-3, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How do you think you played today?  How do you evaluate your performance?
EKATERINA MAKAROVA: Well, I wanted to play a bit better today, but also, Giorgi, she played very good, very aggressive.
She didn't let me to play my game.  She was a little bit every time earlier with the winner, earlier with the aggressive shot.
Yeah, I was a little bit, also maybe a bit nervous at the beginning, and with my serve it didn't go as good as I wanted and not a lot of first serves and she broke me.
Yeah, well, I was fighting and trying to came back until the end, but, yeah, today she was a bit better.
Q. I don't think you ever played her before?
EKATERINA MAKAROVA: No.
Q. Did you expect her to play as well as she did?  Did she surprise you in any way?
EKATERINA MAKAROVA: No, she didn't surprise me, because I saw how she's playing.  She's everything, like, kind of jumping into the court and hitting, hitting very hard and both serves kind of the same speed.
But it's still, when you watch and when you play, it's totally different feeling.  Yeah, I said to my coach maybe we didn't do exact preparation against her, because we didn't play against her so we don't know.  After the match, like, I understood which couple exercises we need to, supposed to do these two days against her that it will help.
But yeah, we didn't know, so it's kind of coach mistake also (smiling).
Q. What do you think you need to do in order to beat Camila?  Not only you, but in general.
EKATERINA MAKAROVA: Well, you need to stay very low with the legs and still to hit her very fast shot, to hit her back, because when it was, yeah, some good rallies, which I won and I was a bit more aggressive, but then she doesn't have a lot of time.  But also, it's very tough to get that speed back after her quite fast shot.
Q. How do you evaluate your tournament?  Round of 16.  Are you satisfied?
EKATERINA MAKAROVA: Yes, I'm very happy, because for a long time I couldn't go so far on the Grand Slams.  I beat so many players which not very comfortable for me, so I'm very happy with that.
Q. What's next for you?  Are you taking some time off?
EKATERINA MAKAROVA: Yeah, I'll take -- well, we play mixed today, and then, yes, I'll take couple days off and I start from Washington.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT