AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 23, 2016
Ekaterina Makarova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








E. MAKAROVA/K. Pliskova
6-3, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You have obviously got a terrific record at this tournament.  Why do you think you play so well here?
EKATERINA MAKAROVA: I don't know, actually.  It's a good question.
I'm really enjoying to be here.  For me, it's everything so comfortable and every time when I'm coming back.
I didn't play after US Open because of my injury, and still, when I came back here and I remember all this, my good memories, good matches, and I'm really enjoying and I really want to stay here as long as I can.
Q. What do you make of your next opponent, Jo Konta?  She's been playing well the last few months.
EKATERINA MAKAROVA: Yes, actually I think she started to play well already last year in the end of the year, so, yeah, definitely she's a tough opponent.  She's aggressive.  She's playing really good here all her matches.
I will be ready for next one.
Q. In effect, you were the player she really turned her fortunes around against when she beat you at Eastbourne.
EKATERINA MAKAROVA: Yeah, we played in Eastbourne.  For me it was first match on the grass, so it was a little bit tough to understand the movement because the season just started.
So she's from England.  Definitely she was practicing on grass.  She played really good that match and pretty -- like, it was, I don't know, 6-3, 6-2, something like that.  She was better on that match.
Q. But you're a lot more comfortable on the courts here at Melbourne Park than the grass at Eastbourne, are you?
EKATERINA MAKAROVA: Well, I won Eastbourne, that tournament, so I had also good memories on that tournament.  I like to play on grass, but, yeah, that moment it wasn't like that.
So here, yeah, I want to go every match and fight.
Q. There have been a lot of seeds already in this half of the draw who have gone out.  Is there a feeling there is an opportunity for players like yourself and Jo to go very far this year?
EKATERINA MAKAROVA: Well, I'm not really thinking about it because I'm playing against one person.  I need to be focused on that match, on that moment.
As far as we go, it's all players.  It's really tough.  They really play good tennis, so you need to be ready for everyone.
Q. What would you say to Jo Konta's strengths and weaknesses?
EKATERINA MAKAROVA: Well, she is aggressive player and playing everything in the court.
I need to play just my game, you know, my shots, and will be good.
Q. Will you look back at that match at all in Eastbourne?  Will you study it when you prepare for this match?
EKATERINA MAKAROVA: No, I'm not -- of course I was thinking about that match, but it was on different surface.  On grass it's every time different situation than on other matches, other surfaces.
So, yeah, just need to prepare for it.
Q. Are you surprised to see her through to the round of 16?
EKATERINA MAKAROVA: No, because she beat Venus in the first round.  It shows that she is in good shape and also great fighter.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT