ROLAND GARROS
May 29, 2015
Ekaterina Makarova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  E. MAKAROVA/E. Vesnina  6-2, 6-4    THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q.  You may have been asked this many times, what's it like to play your doubles partner?  EKATERINA MAKAROVA: Well, it's a bad feeling.  I don't want to feel it again.  I was saying, yeah, so many times already, because we played last Montréal; we played Indian Wells.  They quite close to each other, all these matches, and it's a bad feeling. It's so nervous.  You kind of close.  You cannot scream because we are really good friends and we don't like to scream to each other, Come on or something. So it's really quiet match.  Yeah, I don't like this feeling.   Q.  What's it like at the end given that the idea is to win?  What's it like at the net?  EKATERINA MAKAROVA: Well, I don't know.  Of course I was happy that I win and I came through. Yeah, we just said to each other just, Thank you and that's it.   Q.  It is a long time since she beat you.  Would that be difficult for your doubles if she had beaten you here?  Would it change your doubles?  Is it a problem?  EKATERINA MAKAROVA: No, no, no at all, because it's a tennis.  Maybe like this tournament she more prepared or something, you know.  It's every tournament is different. No at all.  Doesn't matter who won today.  We might have lunch together, so it's good.   Q.  Did you dread it when you saw the draw?  Did you think, Oh, no?  EKATERINA MAKAROVA: I'm not looking at draw, so just my coach is telling me against who I am playing.  Well, when she told me, I was -- I don't know.  It's kind of good that she's not seeded player, you know. For someone else maybe it's a different feeling.  For me it wasn't really happy.   Q.  What was your objective for this tournament this year really if we compare with the other years and your quarterfinal two years ago?  EKATERINA MAKAROVA: Here?  I was in a quarterfinal?  Actually already someone is already telling me that I was in quarter.  My best result was fourth round here couple of years ago. No, I wasn't doing quarterfinals.  That's the last Grand Slam, yeah, when I didn't play the quarters.  So it's happy that someone thinking that I was in quarters. So this tournament is not really like always going really good for me.  I'm always fighting with the clay.  I don't know, it's not really comfortable here for me. But all atmosphere of the Grand Slam, of the Paris, and all the fans is such a great atmosphere, so I'm every year coming and really hoping that this year or the other year will be better than before. So this one is going pretty good, and I am happy that I came through and in the fourth round.  Yeah, I need still to work on some things, and will be ready for next match.   Q.  Which part of your tennis you need to work?  EKATERINA MAKAROVA: Well, all together.  A little bit more going forward and finishing in the net.   Q.  Your next opponent is Ivanovic.  What do you think about the match and what are your expectations?  How good do you know her and about what are you going to think and prepare for the next match?  EKATERINA MAKAROVA: Well, she's a tough opponent definitely.  She was winning here and she for sure has great memories.  I don't remember when we was playing last time.  Maybe it was the Australian Open when I beat her 10-8.  I don't remember we played after that or not. But for sure, yeah, it will be a tough match.  I'm really like looking forward.  And I want to enjoy my day today with my win and, yeah, to prepare for the next match.   Q.  What do you think will be decisive in this match?  To play offensive?  To try to make less errors?  EKATERINA MAKAROVA: Well, I need to play my game, you know, my best game, my aggressive game, and it will work if I will play my game.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT