AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 29, 2015
Ekaterina Makarova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  M. SHARAPOVA/E. Makarova6-3, 6-2An interview with:EKATERINA MAKAROVATHE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. Obviously disappointing result.  Do you take a bit out of this tournament with some of the names you have beaten?EKATERINA MAKAROVA: Well, yeah, of course I'm a little bit upset that I lost.  But she's a great champion and she been so many times in this situation, in this round.  She won so many Grand Slams.  I was a little bit too nervous maybe, and I took so much experience from this match.Q. What about from the tournaments, two semifinals in a row after the US Open last year.  Do you see yourself taking the next step in the future?EKATERINA MAKAROVA: I hope so I will finally take the next step.  It was a great two Grand Slams for me in my career.  I'm so happy how I'm playing, how I'm doing on these tournaments.  Yeah, once again, I've been so many times before in quarterfinals, so now I need to be used to be in semis.  Definitely from this match I take much more experience than was from US Open.Q. Why is it so hard to play against Maria?  You've never beaten her.EKATERINA MAKAROVA: Yeah.  Well, I don't know actually how to explain my feelings.  But, yeah, she's such a great, and she really believe in it, you know, and she's, like, pushing the opponent so much.  This time I was ready much more than it was before.  The beginning was great points, great games.  But then, yeah, I little bit was like disappointing.Q. Obviously it's disappointing not to go all the way, but do you take solace in the fact that you made the semifinals?  Is that an acceptable result for you?EKATERINA MAKAROVA: Yeah, I want to say like this because I was really confident and I really wanted to do really good result like it was at the US Open.  I had such a great feeling from there and I wanted to keep it here.Q. What's so different playing a quarterfinals to a semifinals?  Is it a physical thing?  Dealing with everything around it?  The emotions?EKATERINA MAKAROVA: Yeah, I think it's more emotions, more psychology working at this level, these matches.  It's definitely not even more tennis, more the head.Q. You were hinting that might have played into the second set, the disappointment of losing the first and needing to stay in the game.  Is that what you meant?EKATERINA MAKAROVA: You need a little bit more to believe that you can be in the final.Q. Why haven't you decided to play Fed Cup next week?EKATERINA MAKAROVA: Well, Anastasia, she is choosing the team.  We have so many girls from Russia.  They need to play also for Olympics.  So I played last two years already so many times, so she tried to give me break a little bit.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT