ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 7, 2014
Ekaterina Makarova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







E. MAKAROVA/P. Kvitova
  6‑4, 1‑6, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   What made the difference today?
EKATERINA MAKAROVA:   Well, today was really tough match with two delays.   And the match was going little bit up and down. 
So I think the first set was really good.   We played both really good.   Then second set she just crushed me.   I don't know.   It was really fast and she was so angry. 
Then when we came back on third set, I don't know, I tried to stay more in the point and tried to be more aggressive from myself.   It was really help me. 
Then I returned really good.   She serving so hard.   Well, she still really good player and it's really tough to play against her. 

Q.   How good is it for your confidence for the next match?
EKATERINA MAKAROVA:   Well, of course it's really good win of today.   It's really help me in the future and tomorrow. 
We had so many matches against each other, and every one was really tough, three sets or like 7‑6, 7‑6.   Every time we are fighting.   It's really tough to go out there and play against her. 

Q.   How does it rank for you as a victory to win over such an impressive player?
EKATERINA MAKAROVA:   Well, I beat her already before.   Like I say, we play so many time.   I beat her, she beat me. 
She just won Wimbledon.   Yes, she's in a good shape and good emotions.   So, of course, I'm really happy to came through here.   First time here in this tournament I'm in quarterfinals.   It's really exciting.   I really want to go tomorrow to fight again. 

Q.   How were you able to manage and keep your focus and control during the rain delays?
EKATERINA MAKAROVA:   Well, I think for everyone it's pretty difficult, not just for me. 
Yeah, it's tough.   Like one, it's okay.   Second, you get a little bit, I don't know, angry.   Today was really fast rain delay.   You just go out and then in 10 minutes you go back. 
Of course, it's tough.   But I think we used to it.   It happened before with us.   So we try to stay focus in our game.   Nothing we can do with this rain. 

Q.   Tomorrow you play either Jankovic or Vandeweghe.   Do you have thoughts on them?
EKATERINA MAKAROVA:   Jankovic, she's of course also really good player.   Vandeweghe, now she's playing really good last few tournaments.   She's for sure in great shape. 
They played 7‑6 last night both, so it's kind of interesting today will be.   I also need to play doubles tonight.   I don't know.   Whoever wins, I just want to go and fight again. 

Q.   You were in the semifinal in Washington.   It seems to be going really well.   Have you made some changes or... 
EKATERINA MAKAROVA:   Well, these two tournaments I am with my mom because my coach, she's on holiday.   So she'll come to Cincinnati. 
I don't know.   I didn't do any changes.   I was in quarters in Wimbledon.   I don't know.   I just had holidays couple days, then started working again.   So maybe just really good prepared for this American tour. 
So, yeah, I just want to maybe keep it for US Open. 

Q.   How do you change from French to Wimbledon, then Wimbledon to hard courts?   Which do you find more difficult?
EKATERINA MAKAROVA:   Well, of course, from clay to the grass court because we play only three tournaments on grass.   On hard we play more tournaments, so we kind of used what to expect. 
Clay is really slow, and the grass is the fastest one.   It's really different movements, really different.   Like you need to feel your legs differently. 
But I like the grass.   So every time when I go out there, I'm just enjoying to play these few tournaments. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT