WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2014
Ekaterina Makarova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







E. MAKAROVA/A. Radwanska
  6/3, 6/0

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Congratulations. 
EKATERINA MAKAROVA:   Thank you.

Q.   What do you make of that performance? 
EKATERINA MAKAROVA:   Well, today was a kind of tough one.   Like Agnieszka, she's really good on grass.   She had great results here, so... 
I never beat her.   Just beat her once in US Open last year.   So this match was kind of I think‑‑ I just was remembering my emotion and game and how I was playing. 
It really worked today.   And I think I was so solid, so calm, you know, during all the match and all the points.   Just wait when it was comfortable and I was aggressive. 

Q.   What is it about the Grand Slams that brings out your best tennis?
EKATERINA MAKAROVA:   I don't know.   Yeah, actually, I don't know.   Maybe I have a different feeling than in another tournaments.   All this atmosphere, that it's going long, you know, so you can enjoy your win on the next day.
I don't know.   Yeah, I like the all rules, kind of that.   Here I think it's like make me more comfortable, because my parents came and we are in the house.
So it's like at home for me.   This year it's like at home because my mom is cooking and we are eating Russian food.   It's really comfortable.

Q.   Your quarterfinal opponent, Lucie Safarova, thoughts on that?
EKATERINA MAKAROVA:   Now she's playing really good.   I don't know, last month she's really aggressive.   She also like grass.   She's hitting hard and flat.   She is lefty.
So I think it will be a good match.   I'll talk with my coach.   We decide which tactic we take and we'll see what happened tomorrow.

Q.   What does it mean for to you reach a Wimbledon quarterfinal?
EKATERINA MAKAROVA:   Well, it means a lot.   I've been already in quarters three times, so I kind of maybe used to it.
I have a different feeling now.   Before maybe it was feeling like it's kind of over, but now I really want to go forward. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT