FEDCUP SEMIFINALS: RUSSIA v USA
April 25, 2010
Ekaterina Makarova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 B. MATTEK-SANDS/E. Makarova
  6-4, 2-6, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Talk to me about the flow of the match that you just played.   
 EKATERINA MAKAROVA: Yeah, it was really tough match. Bethanie, she's really good player. It's really tough to play against her.   
 Yeah, maybe I had like a little bit not so much pressure because we was leading 2-1. But, anyway, it's very tough to play first time singles in Fed Cup team in my career. So I did all my best. I was fighting until the end.   
 Maybe in the end, she was, you know, with the crowd so good. She played unbelievable shots. So well done for her.   
  
  Q. I thought for a while she was picking on your forehand. Could you tell that she seemed to be going more towards your forehand?   
 EKATERINA MAKAROVA: Yeah, maybe today I was playing not really good from my forehand side. Maybe she like saw it or the captain told her.   
 So, yeah, for today it was a good tactic against me.   
  
  Q. You won the second set. Did you feel a particular point where it got away from you in the third set?   
 EKATERINA MAKAROVA: You mean?   
  
  Q. Obviously you won the second set. Was there a point in the third set that you felt...   
 EKATERINA MAKAROVA: Yeah, maybe I lost a little bit concentration in the beginning of the third set. She started leading 2-Love. Then I did 2-1. But she played really unbelievable and she was pushing me. I wanted like to try to come back, you know. I just did my best from 5-1 fighting.   
  
  Q. On the subject of fighting, you had that game in the second set where she had eight breakpoints and you didn't yield. Talk about that a little bit.   
 EKATERINA MAKAROVA: Yeah, it was 2-1 I think. I was serving. Yeah, I think it was really important game. It was too long game.   
 So when I was playing, I was thinking that, Yeah, this one is really important game so I have to take it. After that, of course, like she had a lot of chances, but she lost, so maybe that's why she little bit came down.   
  
  Q. Did you think that having overcome that, that might give you a better opportunity to go on and win, that she might get disappointed perhaps?  
 EKATERINA MAKAROVA: For second set, yeah, I was like so in courage. I was thinking that I have a chance to win the second set. But I wasn't thinking about the match, just thinking every point what I have to do against her, play my game.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT