ROLAND GARROS
May 28, 2017
Ekaterina Makarova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
E. MAKAROVA/A. Kerber   
6-2, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.   
 Q.  You must be thrilled with that victory.  
EKATERINA MAKAROVA: Yes, thank you very much.  Well, of course, yes, I'm so happy.  It was quite tough first round.   
But we played a lot of matches in the past, and they were all good and three sets and all, well, in the tight moments.   
It's always to play tough against Angelique, and especially when she's No. 1.  It's a totally different opponent, so I'm very happy that I could control my good tennis today.   
 Q.  Did you go in, though, feeling that she was vulnerable?  She's had kind of an up-and-down year since last year's success.  Did you feel like she's there to be beaten?  
EKATERINA MAKAROVA: Well, yes.  Just look her results.  I had this thing in my mind.   
But this is the Grand Slam, and like, I was a lot of years seeded.  Here I'm not.  Before the draw, I was waiting for the draw, and I was ready that I could play against anyone, but I didn't think that I will play No. 1.   
But it happened, and nothing I can do.  I just went there and was fighting and tried to show my good tennis.   
 Q.  What does it feel like to beat a No. 1 player?  I think the four times you tried before didn't go as well; three against Serena and I think once again Henin.  To finally achieve that.  
EKATERINA MAKAROVA: Well, this is good question.  Yes, of course it's a special day and a special moment and total different emotions.   
I actually never played my singles on Philippe Chatrier here for nine years of playing here the main draw.  I was playing all the time on Lenglen when I was going farther on the draw, so today was special day for me.  I really enjoyed my singles out there (smiling).   
 Q.  You have obviously had such great success at Grand Slams.  What is it about you that you think ends with you producing your best tennis at Grand Slams and beating top 10 players time after time after time?  
EKATERINA MAKAROVA: Well, I think I just like kind of this World Cups or Olympics games.  Yeah, in tennis we have a Grand Slam, and such a big tournament, different atmosphere, different emotions on the stadiums every day.   
I'm kind of different also on these tournaments.  I don't know why, but it's just kind of coming on this weeks, and I'm fighting, I'm kind of angry, and I want to win.  Doesn't matter what's happening, which draw I have.   
I don't know.  I kind of like big tournaments or what is this.   
 Q.  Going off of that point, when you play these bigger tournaments, as you said, it's bigger emotion, and you can get frustrated and there is more at stake.  How were you able to kind of keep yourself in that level of being intense and being angry or whatever it is, without going too much overboard?  Because when you get negative, obviously, it's not always good for you.  
EKATERINA MAKAROVA: Yeah, it doesn't help.   
Well, today I think I was so calm with myself and kind of quiet inside.  So I had just a ball and me and the place where to play and nothing else.  In the end was a little bit kind of nervous moment, but it's always in the end when you're finishing and you get a little bit nervous.   
But today also, like, tough condition, it's so humid, so hot.  And, well, when you play in Australia and America, you are kind of already used to it.  But here, all the days was kind of normal, and today is like, oh, it's so hot.  So for the body, it's also a little bit need some time to used to it.   
And it was quite easy score, but they all points you need to win it, she not gonna miss it.  And the rallies was with a lot of shots.   
I'm happy, yes, with my game today.   
 Q.  Was there a point or can you describe the point when you were expected to win?  Because obviously you're hoping to win when you start, but there had to be a point when you're expected to win.  Was that when you were double break up, 3-Love?  Or when did that point come when you started saying to yourself, I'm expected to win this?  
EKATERINA MAKAROVA: Well, in tennis we always, when you shake the hand, it's this point when you know that you win this match and you finish it.  During all games and all sets, it's not finishing and you are not winning because everything can go like in the other way.  You could start missing, the opponent start to hit very well.   
So you need to, especially against top 10 players and especially against No. 1, because that's why she's there (smiling).  So she will fight until the end.  She will hit.  The last game was so long and so tough.  So, yeah.  No point.  Point is when you shake the hand, yeah.   
 Q.  Most people consider clay your weaker surface.  What do you personally think of the surface compared with other ones?  
EKATERINA MAKAROVA: Other ones with the clays or just other surface?   
 Q.  Do you like clay as much as you like other ones?  
EKATERINA MAKAROVA: Well, I like more other ones, because, yeah, I know, I'm from Russia, and we don't have great clay courts and we are always practicing on hard courts.  That's why I like when it's everything a little bit more faster.   
But here actually I would say that the fastest clay in all season of clay we have, so it's quite fast.  I'm getting used to it with the years already for this surface, so yeah, I'm showing my results that I could play good tennis here also.   
 Q.  You said in Dubai that you guys got BMWs for winning the gold medal at the Olympics.  Do you get anything for beating a world No. 1 at a slam?  Anything at all?  No?  From the Russian Federation.  
EKATERINA MAKAROVA: Say it again.   
 Q.  In Dubai you were saying you guys got cars, right?  After the gold medal?  
EKATERINA MAKAROVA: Yes.   
 Q.  Do you get anything for beating a world No. 1 at a tournament?  
EKATERINA MAKAROVA: Oh, no.  Nothing for Grand Slam and nothing for beating such great players.  But still, yes, we will fight for it (smiling).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT