NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL INVITATIONAL
July 30, 2009
Henrik Bjornstad
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOE CHEMYCZ: We welcome Henrik Bjornstad in with a 4-under par 67 today. Good playing. Just some general comments if you would about how you played and condition of the golf course. 
 HENRIK BJORNSTAD: I played really solid today. I only missed two greens, I think. I think the course is holding up nicely. It was pretty wet in spots here and there. The greens are firming up. 

 Q. Good play for you after a nice three-week break to go home. 
 HENRIK BJORNSTAD: Yeah, absolutely. I skipped Canada and took three week off and went back to Norway to see some friends and family. I haven't seen them since Christmas, so it was about time. I only played five days of golf over there. I played all right last week, but the way I played today was really satisfying. 

 Q. Obviously the break seems to have agreed with you. Did you need it when you -- how were you playing leading up to that?
 HENRIK BJORNSTAD: I was making most of the cuts, but I was finishing in the 40s and around there. So I felt like I needed a break, yeah. 
 I had played five weeks in a row, as well, so three weeks in Norway seemed about perfect timing.

 Q. Did you do anything special on the vacation or just see friends and family?
 HENRIK BJORNSTAD: Yeah, I just hung out with my friends and family and didn't do much, really. Just took it real easy and enjoyed some good weather in Norway. It's not often we have that. 

 Q. What did you do well today?
 HENRIK BJORNSTAD: Especially I just hit the ball really well. I missed two greens, like I said, and they were just off the green. Yeah, around here you really have to hit the ball well, especially now it's wet, it's playing really long. Yeah, my ball-striking was the best today. I was able to get a few putts in here and there, as well. 

 Q. I'm not sure if after playing a practice round on Tuesday if you had already put together a game plan, but after the rain fell, did you have to change your mindset on how you were going to play this course? 
 HENRIK BJORNSTAD: A little. I've played the two previous years here, and it's been playing totally different. We have a lot of 5- and 6-irons left and 4-irons into par-4s that we're usually just hitting 9 and 8s sometimes. So it plays a lot different. But we can also be more aggressive because the greens are pretty soft. Usually they're very firm. 
 It plays longer, but it's also more forgiving. You can play more aggressive on the holes that are a little shorter.

 Q. One of the pros said yesterday after the pro-am that he was hitting two more clubs into the green than he had hit the day before. Is that about the same for you? 
 HENRIK BJORNSTAD: Yeah, I would say so. 
 JOE CHEMYCZ: Talk a little bit about how much different is this week from last week, last week with birdies and birdies and birdies, and this week not as many on a much more difficult golf course, and how did that affect your thinking? Last week you had to make birdies. 
 HENRIK BJORNSTAD: Yeah, exactly. I like courses like this because I can -- I feel much more relaxed on the golf course. I don't feel like I have to make birdie on every hole. It's okay to make a par here or there, and you can also make a bogey without getting too hard on yourself. 
 Last week you really had to make tons of birdies, but here you can -- shooting par, around par or a couple under is a good score. 
 I prefer more difficult golf courses, but -- yeah. I mean, I seem to play a little bit more relaxed when it's a little bit tougher. 
 JOE CHEMYCZ: Henrik, thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT