TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 3, 2009
Steven Sheffield
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. Steven, being the situation where you are not really sure you are going to play or not did you feel comfortable when your number was called did you feel like you were ready for that?
 STEVEN SHEFFIELD: Yeah I've been comfortable would be a good word. I've been waiting for that for awhile. Being the back-up you always got to do just as much as the starter as far as film study and what you got to know about our opponent and what not. I don't gets a many reps as the starter throughout a week of practice, but, at the same time, you know, you got to take every rep -- I mean, don't take every rep for granted.
 So yeah I was excited about it.

 Q. What were you feeling when you went in there, led a touchdown drive right off the bat?
 STEVEN SHEFFIELD: I knew we didn't have much time left and the game wasn't going very well. I mean, it wasn't going in any particular fashion that it should have been going, as far as, you know, the effort we were -- our execution and everything like that. So, you know, I knew we had to turn something around and make something happen before half-time. And it worked out well.

 Q. Steven, to go in and hear the student body behind you like that, hear them chanting your name, what was that like what were your emotions like when you went in?
 STEVEN SHEFFIELD: I was excited. Our fans are the best fans in the country. I loved every bit of it. All the signs and the attitude they bring. Kind of have the same attitude. It was nice. I liked it. I'm glad I got my opportunity.

 Q. Do you remember a win when you guys were maybe that frustrating a win?
 STEVEN SHEFFIELD: Um, I don't know. Baylor last year was a pretty frustrating win. If y'all remember that game. You know, as far as, you know, me playing, this was my second time ever playing here, so definitely, you know, times I ever played, it's the second time. 
 Yeah we struggled and guys try to does too much at times and then there's time when we got complacent and a little bit lackadaisical but it ended up working out there well and everybody rose to the occasion and ended up winning, so most important thing.

 Q. Steven, if you're playing again next week, how well prepared do you feel for that opportunity?
 STEVEN SHEFFIELD: Very well. Yeah if my number's called again I'll be ready just like I was ready this time. Like I said I am going to watch just as much film as anybody else, and, you know, when Leach is going over the game planner for the week I'll be taking notes and seeing what I need to do.
 You know, the game plan that we're told, they did exactly what they thought they did and it worked out well. Kansas State, I'm ready.

 Q. You were running around with a lot of energy there when you went in and things got going well. Was that more because to get the team fired up or is that also some of just how long you have waited for that chance?
 STEVEN SHEFFIELD: Yeah, I mean, you know, that's the thing that Leach compliments me a lot on bringing tempo to the whole unit and getting everybody excited to play, and that's how I am going to do whether we're in practice, you know, with or without pads then come game time there's nothing different in the game than practice other than a bunch of fans. You know, it's game. But, you know, you still got to go out there and just make the routine plays and do what you are coach to do and make things happen.

 Q. Talk about your mobility and how it helped out as far as your style of playing and is Leach encouraging you not to do that as much?
 STEVEN SHEFFIELD: Yeah. It's been a thing -- mainly in previous years, you know, when I was younger and that I was always taking off and running too early instead of staying in the pocket and going through all just making the throw and sometimes checking out of the back rather than trying to force it deep and go for the big ball. That's what I was big on when I first got here.
 Being able to move a little bit, I know it helps me, and I think it helps the offense as well. Just because, you know, I mean, you look at the successful teams out there, you know, most of the time more than not the quarterback can take something happen if there's pressure and, you know, no matter who you are playing you are going have pressure. Breaking the pocket does, I mean, you can't argue that, you know, it messes with the defensive heads. And defensive coordinators definitely don't like quarterbacks that can, you know, run and get the first down when they have everybody covered up.

 Q. Overall how would you evaluate your performance in terms of what you did well tapped what you need do better?
 STEVEN SHEFFIELD: I think what I did well is I started good. And I brought tempo to the offense. I got everybody excited to play. And, um, as far as my overall performance, I don't know. I'd give it a B, B- or something, because I did a lot of stupid things and I didn't need to do them. And I created my own pressure a few times. That fumble, not having two hands on the ball was just stupid. And, you know, we just stalled three drives in a row when we shouldn't have, you know. And we have more ability than that. And we can play better than that and we should have just scored on the drive like we did on the first three. It's something they am going to need to work on and, you know, it's -- even though, you know, like I said it's a lot like practice, when it comes to game time, I mean, like both my calfs right now have cramped and I don't know why. I mean, maybe I didn't drink enough water. That never happens before. Usually because I stand on the sideline.
 But I got to work on little things like that and not try to make too much happen and just make the routine play every time.
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT