MOUNTAIN WEST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 13, 2010
Lon Kruger
Chace Stanback
Kendall Wallace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 THE MODERATOR: We're joined by UNLV head Coach Kruger and student-athletes. We'll start by taking an opening comment about the game by Coach Kruger. 
 COACH KRUGER: Terrific weekend of basketball. I thought teams played well. The crowds were fantastic. From our perspective, of course, came up a little short today of what we set out to do and hoped to accomplish. Credit San Diego State. Thought they dictated really throughout, especially late, had a little bit of an opportunity there in the second half, and I thought San Diego State made some good plays and shots to get back into it. Leonard was great all day on the boards. Gay hit a couple big threes. White knocked down a couple little jumpers in the lane that created a little bit of a margin. 
 The guys fought. San Diego State did things better than we did. 
 THE MODERATOR: We'll start with questions for the student-athletes first. 

 Q. Can you talk about the frustrations you had offensively today. 
 CHACE STANBACK: It was definitely frustrating for us. Seemed in the beginning we couldn't really get into a rhythm. Once we got into a rhythm, it started to flow. In the end, they won more battles than we did. 
 KENDALL WALLACE: I think we were a little tentative offensively. I think that caused us to make a few turnovers. Their defense, you have to give credit to their defense as well. They were sagging in a little bit. They weren't giving us open looks. They're a long team. They gave us some problems. 

 Q. Can you talk about what happened in those last seven minutes as far as just not being able to come up with open looks. 
 CHACE STANBACK: Like coach said, they dictated. They dictated the game in the end. Gay hit a couple big threes. Leonard was a force in the paint, rebounding the ball. They just played a helluva game in the end. 
 KENDALL WALLACE: They were playing real hard defensively. That length was giving us problems inside. We were getting in there and we were getting good looks inside. We weren't able to finish because of those long arms down there. 

 Q. Fatigue was a factor for both teams after playing last night? 
 CHACE STANBACK: I don't think so. I mean, you just got to fight through stuff like that. You can't really use that as an excuse. I just felt like, like I said, they won more battles than we did in the end. 
 KENDALL WALLACE: Yeah, I don't think fatigue played a factor at the end. A huge game. You can just go off the adrenaline alone there at the end, so... 
 THE MODERATOR: At this time we'll dismiss our student-athletes and continue with questions for Coach Kruger. 

 Q. Each year it's talked about athleticism, nobody likes to match up against them because of that. Can you put in percentages how much of an advantage they seem to have over teams with a kid like Leonard?
 COACH KRUGER: They've got several very good athletes. When you think about their five man, four man being Thomas and White, very, very active, very athletic, can get out and cover perimeter guys, as well as block shots on the interior. Then of course Leonard is fantastic. He does a terrific job in every way. He may set the standard for strong athletes, combination of both strength and athleticism. 
 So then other good athletes around those guys. They're outstanding. They're very athletic, very active, do a great job. 

 Q. Do you feel there's no doubt in your mind the Mountain West will get four teams and UNLV will be one?
 COACH KRUGER: Yeah, we feel like that. That doesn't mean anything. We have to wait till tomorrow. But I think the league and this weekend and everything, pretty clearly indicates four in. 

 Q. You have to deal with Leonard potentially for another three years. Based on what you've seen of him this year, what is going to be your approach to recruit somebody to match up with him? 
 COACH KRUGER: He's just got an air about him that is what you're looking for in an athlete. Very confident. Finishes. Makes big plays. Went to the line today, made all of his free throws. You know, he just delivers. He appears to be that -- have to ask Coach Fisher, but appears to be that type of guy that rises to the occasion. He's awfully tough. Everybody would like to recruit a guy to match up with him, but hard to find those.

 Q. Your back left, can you talk about how banged up was Tre'Von coming into this game. 
 COACH KRUGER: Tre'Von had some swelling and soreness. Again, he's not going to lean on that. I thought he battled through it, lined up and competed. Again, you know, a lot of guys, third game in three days, they're going to be a little less than a hundred percent. 
 He's not going to use that as an excuse. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much, coach. 
 COACH KRUGER: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT