FBR OPEN
February 5, 2005
Joey Snyder III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
An incredible round, being right there.  Sum it all up for me.  How has this week been?
JOEY SNYDER III:  It's been a fantastic week.  I've had a lot of my family, a lot of my friends, a lot of people who I haven't seen in a long time, and it's been very nice.  It's been an emotional deal, but it's been a lot of fun.
Q.  Being a local guy, I see the support for you is out there everywhere you go.  They're yelling your name.
JOEY SNYDER III:  It's fun to hear it, but I definitely have to keep focused on the golf.
Q.  What do you think, 5-under through three rounds.  Did you ever imagine such a thing in your wildest imagination?
JOEY SNYDER III:  Sure.  You come out here to play golf, and if you play and you hit the ball as well as you can and you putt as well as you can and let the chips fall where they may, I'm happy to be where I am and I feel blessed to be here just to play in the tournament.
Q.  You've got to be looking forward to Sunday, huh?
JOEY SNYDER III:  I'm looking forward to it.  I'm looking forward to being there with my friends and my family and my wife.
Q.  What's it like for you playing in this tournament and then tell me about the 16th hole experience.  What is that like?
JOEY SNYDER III:  16 is awesome.  I mean, I love it.  I hit a golf shot today that I thought was perfect and flew to the back edge.

The experience out here is fantastic.  I have guys over here that helped me out this week, the Great Southwest Markets, who are just screaming at me on 18 fairway from their corporate tent.  Everywhere I go, I've got guys screaming at me, and it's a lot of fun.
Q.  Finally, I know you're focused on golf tomorrow, but any thoughts on the big game?  Any thoughts or the Super Bowl?  We're trying to get golfers' predictions, who they like and why.
JOEY SNYDER III:  Goodness.  I'd like to see Philly pull it off.  I think New England may do it, but I'd like to see Philly pull it off and pull the upset.
Q.  Thanks, congratulations.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT