ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 19, 2015
Ken Duke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Ken Duke, posted that beautiful number.   Just what did you to so well out there day, Ken?
KEN DUKE:   This golf course sets up good for me.   I'm having some injuries this year.   Getting better but I put a new putter in the bag this week and new irons a few weeks ago.   I'm getting better with it. 
Made a few putts on top of it.   Hit some good shots.   Didn't really go at pins.   Hit a spot and took what I had and that's what you have to do around this place.

Q.   With all due respect, you had a tough year so far.   Your best finish a tie for 47th on the West Coast.   What do you think you found here this week that will better those numbers?
KEN DUKE:   Just have to keep grinding.   Keeps showing you miss five, six cuts in a row and end up winning.   That's the way it goes sometimes.   I had to two good Top-10s in the fall which was really good.   My injury was hurt a little bit more.   It's getting better.   Got to be patient around here.   Mr. Palmer and his staff always has a great tournament here and it's always great to play here.

Q.   Last week and now it's continuing this week.
KEN DUKE:   Had some signs last week around Innisbrook.   Obviously this course, it's a tough test and get the wind circling around here.   You have to be patient.   Hit some good shots and made a few putts on top of it.   That's what you have to do around here.

Q.   What's the key to playing this golf course?
KEN DUKE:   Got to be patient.   I didn't go at any pins today.   I had one pin, I hit it in the water on 13.   I learned my lesson.   I went away from every pin.   Put a new putter in the bag this week and new irons two weeks ago.   It's all working together.

Q.   Who do you like in the NCAA Tournament?
KEN DUKE:   Razorback, obviously.   It's tough to beat Kentucky.   They're really playing good.   It is the NCAA Tournament.   You never know.

Q.   Well done today.
KEN DUKE:   Appreciate it.

Q.   Good round today.
KEN DUKE:   It was good.   Hit some really good shots and I didn't really go at any pin.   The only pin I went at at 13 and the wind got it and went in the water.   I kind of learned my lesson from then on and just hit some good iron shots and put a new putter in the bag, some new irons the last couple weeks.   All coming together.   They have a great staff here and the tournament is always good.

Q.   You said you felt pretty good the other day about your game.   I mean is this what you expected almost?
KEN DUKE:   Yeah.   You never know.   You know how it works around here, you can miss six, seven cuts in a row and end up winning the next week.   That's just golf.   You have to be patient.   Obviously around this golf course you have to.   You got to drive it well.   The greens not as good as they usually are but you have to hit your spots and just be patient.   Take what you get.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT