TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2014
Ken Duke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Ken, that was a pretty good opening round for your first defense of a PGA TOUR title, 65?
KEN DUKE:   Yeah, I didn't know how I was going to feel to be honest with you.   Kind of shaky early, but I got off to a couple birdies there.   Left a few out there, hit a lot of good shots and finished it up on the back nine which is really great.

Q.   I thought it was a really good ball striking round for you.   You hit 15 of 18 greens? 
KEN DUKE:   Yeah, that's my game.   If I can get that flat stick going, I can maybe compete with these guys a little bit.   But that's what I'm working hard on.   It feels good.   Just maybe a few of them will go in the rest of the week.

Q.   You only had 26 putts. 
KEN DUKE:   That's a good thing.

Q.   Yeah, that's a good number when you hit that many greens, and a really nice birdie for you to polish it off as well. 
KEN DUKE:   Yeah, it was.   That was a very tricky green right there.   I thought it might go left, I thought it might go right.   So I closed my eyes and knocked it in the hole.

Q.   Yeah, you put it right in the middle.   Good job. 
KEN DUKE:   I'll take it.   I appreciate it.

Q.   Two of his last three holes, Ken Duke all smiles with an opening round 65.   How was it out there? 
KEN DUKE:   Yeah, it was great.   It was really light wind and soft.   Got a little wind out there, but the greens were perfect, the fairways were perfect, played good, it was a great time.

Q.   You're defending champ.   Six consecutive rounds in the 60s at TPC River Highlands.   Why are you so comfortable with this layout? 
KEN DUKE:   I really don't know.   It just sets my eye, I guess.   Seems like I putted a few on this golf course really well, and my ball striking is pretty good.   There were a few long holes, but not as many as there were last week at the U.S. Open.   So it's just a lot of good memories and just feel comfortable here, I guess.   They open their arms here, and I feel like it's home.   I'm from a small town and this is a small town.   Travelers does a great job. 
I don't know what it is.   I'm trying to make up an excuse, but I don't know.

Q.   Seems like you have a whole town following you.   You're the unofficial Mayor of Cromwell, it seems like.   Tell us about the fan club walking with you? 
KEN DUKE:   Well, I don't have any money now, so I fought them to bring them here.   No, it's fun.   Lot of friends from the Boston and Connecticut area and my wife and family are here as well.   It's just a great atmosphere.   They're just cheering me on and supporting me, which is a great time.

Q.   Lot of reason to cheer today.   Thanks for your time. 
KEN DUKE:   Thank you.

Q.   Second time now defending champ.   When you're walking the fairways is it a different feeling? 
KEN DUKE:   A good feeling, lot of good memories.   When good things happen, it seems like you're on your toes instead of on your heels.   Lot of good memories here which makes it feel good.

Q.   What did you like about your round? 
KEN DUKE:   I kept the ball in play all day.   I missed three or four putts out there that I feel like I should have made, and just didn't really get in trouble which is the key around here.   Obviously, everything's soft, no wind, so we have to make some birdies around here and we have to keep pace since we played in the afternoon.   So I really was excited about the round.   I just didn't know how I was going to play just being the defending champion, I'd never done that before, so it was great.   It was a great time.   Kuchar and Dustin were awesome too.   We all had a good time.

Q.   Coming back tomorrow morning, your thoughts on the quick turn around? 
KEN DUKE:   Yeah, just got to be patient.   We won't have as much wind.   It will be a little softer, might be a little cooler.   You can't get ahead of yourself out there in the morning because you know you have some good conditions.   You have to be patient, have fun, and see if you can have another good round. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT