THE SENIOR OPEN PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 26, 2019
Ken Duke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How tricky was it to come back this morning and finish the first round?  
KEN DUKE: Only thing is we couldn't have slept long, that's the only bad thing.  There was no wind, it was fine.  Just wanted a little more sleep, that's all.   
 Q.  Were conditions easier this morning?  
KEN DUKE: It was, no gusty winds.  Tricky, though.  The winds were tricky.  The greens are a little slower.  You think they are faster, but they got just a little more grass on them, just a little slower.  We couldn't really get the speed of them today.  A lot of us left them short.  They will get better as we go along.   
 Q.  What do you think about the golf course?  
KEN DUKE: This is what it's all about.  I've been to four or five Opens.  Anybody wants to play a golf course, Royal Lytham is one of the classiest places.  It's a little piece of property and you think you can play well here, but it can really get you, 100-some bunkers.  It's crazy.   
 Q.  Did you manage to miss the majority of them?  
KEN DUKE: I told myself the first day, I wasn't going to hit in any bunkers and I hit in one on the first hole.  Messed up.  I've been in a few of them this week, I promise you, as many people have, as well.   
 Q.  Nice to get up-and-down on 18?  
KEN DUKE: Yeah, 17, 18, I was in between clubs and trying to hit one more club and just swung a little bit fast, but it was an easy bunker shot.  Just got to get it going, but the putt was the issue.  You never know with the longer grass on there that it holds its line.  You have to be a good bunker player out here because there's a lot of bunkers, as you said.   
You never know, I have some friends over in Dundee and Troon and Berwick, you never know.  I come over here and I enjoy the people, the fans.  Everyone over here enjoys their golf.  If it's rain, sleet or shine, they are out here watching and that's what it's all about.   
 Q.  What has been working so well that gets you in this position so far?  
KEN DUKE: You've got to hole a few putts.  I've been trying to be consistent on trying to take a 20-, 30-foot putt for birdie and trying to 2-putt.  You have to be disciplined.  You can't fire at pins because if you do you'll go over or down into bunkers or mounds.  You have to be very disciplined here to hit it to a spot and try to make a two-putt.   
 Q.  How do you embrace the thinking that goes into playing a place like this?  
KEN DUKE: You have to.  You have to, like I said, you have to hit it to a spot and take your punishment, and if you hit it in the bunker, you have to chip it out and hopefully get it up-and-down.  It's nothing like anything else.  If you start trying to do things that you shouldn't do, you're going to make a big number.   
 Q.  And now where you are through 36 holes, what are you thinking about going into the weekend?  
KEN DUKE: I'm just excited to play in a major on the Champions Tour.  The Senior British is one I've always wanted to play and I've played in three or four other Open Championships.  Never played here and excited just to be here.   
Like I said, the fans are awesome.  The people, everyone, it's just great to be here and never played here before and what a great venue to have here, as well.  It's a little bitty spot, but it's very difficult.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT