CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK HOSPITALS CLASSIC
November 8, 2012
Ken Duke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Ken, nice round today out at the Palm Course.   5‑under par.   Only one bogey on the score card.   You had that eagle on No. 11.   What was really working for you out there today?
KEN DUKE:   Well, first of all, this is Florida.   It's not like Wisconsin.   It was scold out here this morning.   It was really chilly.
But hit a lot of good shots.   This golf course is one that you can really get.   I didn't birdie the par‑5s on the front but I got them on the back.   But it's just fun to be here and being a part of the Disney tournament.

Q.   Last year you closed out your season on a high note with that win at the Nationwide Tour Championship.   How great is it to finish the year strong looking ahead to next season?
KEN DUKE:   It's really good.   I made a lot of changes coming into this year and been really working hard on my game and a lot of other things.   It's just fun to have my card for next year and I'm looking forward to the 2013 year and just really excited.

Q.   It's a great week for your family here at Disney World?
KEN DUKE:   It's good.   They just came in last night, so I think I'll probably hit the parks for a bit this afternoon.   And that's all good.

Q.   You had some blustery conditions.   How proud are you of that round?
KEN DUKE:   Yeah, it's great.   This is a golf course you have to score on, and we all know that. 
Didn't get off to that great of a start, but it was really cool this morning, so you really have to be patient.   I didn't birdie the par‑5s on the front but I got them on the back which is a good thing.   It's just always good to get off to a good start.

Q.   I've always thought you were a good wind player.   Is that accurate?
KEN DUKE:   I guess you could say that.   I fly the ball pretty good.   So when it comes to this, I can use my imagination and keep the ball down and try to control your distances, and yeah, I've worked hard on that over the years.

Q.   How good are the greens right now?
KEN DUKE:   They're really good.   Get this wind, they could get really, really fast.   You really have to watch it whenever you have a downhiller and it runs six or eight foot past.

Q.   Do you need three more 67s today?
KEN DUKE:   Be nice.   I'll put it in the house.   It's kind of funny, I have a bucks for birdies that I do for my charity and you pledge so much a birdie throughout the year, and you pick how many birdies I make throughout the year.   So I've got a few friends that are right on a good bubble, so I have to do that five a day, I might get to them.   But it's just great to be here, and I had a good year and ended up right here at Disney.

Q.   You're a nice guy out there.   There's some Ken Duke fans following you around. 
KEN DUKE:   You have to pay to get your fans sometimes.   I try to bring as many as I can, and at least somebody's cheering for me.   But it's always a great time to see a lot of good friends and family.

Q.   Thanks, Kenny. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT