FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 8, 2012
Ken Duke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  KEN DUKE:   I got a week off next week.   You know, aiming and shooting.   Making a lot of putts on top of it.   I hit it pretty good and played pretty good last few days.  
   
 Q.   Can you give us an idea of the conditions, because it appeared at times as I watched the wind it kicked up and completely died down on you, especially here at 9, it was into your face but the flag wasn't doing anything.  
KEN DUKE:   Yeah.   That's kind of what happened yesterday.   You get that wind circling on a few holes on both sides and you really have to watch it, because you hit a couple bad ones and that will get it and go in the water and tough to get up and down.  
The greens are not getting too fast, but they're close.  
   
 Q.   I had several people come up to me and say they're watching the pride of Henderson State in Arkansas.   What does it mean to have that kind of support?  
KEN DUKE:   It's an honor to be on the PGA TOUR.   Every time I go here, there's someone I went to school with or friends of a friend.   It's just fun to be out here.  
   
 Q.   Congratulations and best of luck the rest of the way.  
KEN DUKE:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   Just talk about your day, again building on what you did yesterday.  
KEN DUKE:   I made a couple chip-ins and made a couple good saves, which keeps the round going.   Just keep the ball in front of you.   The greens are soft, so you can kind of fire at the pin.   If you get too aggressive, you can roll them past pretty quickly.  
   
 Q.   Your name is up there on the leaderboard.   A lot of guys to go off.   As you head into the weekend, do you feel about good about where your game is and looking up there and seeing your name?  
KEN DUKE:   I feel good about taking a week off next week.   That's what it's all about.   I think that's kind of why I'm pretty free this week.   So, it is great to be up here on the Tour and be on the leaderboard.   I'm just trying to do what I can do and I can't control everyone else.   I'm enjoying it.   Lot of friends and family from Arkansas here.   That's always a big part.  
   
 Q.   You played here before.   Just talk a little bit about this weather.   We're so used to having high 90s.   It's just difficult.   Last two days have got to be breath-taking and nice for the golfers to go around.  
KEN DUKE:   Growing up here, you just don't get this.   People from here understand it, but people -- it's usually 90, 95 with the humidity.   It's kind of one of those things.   Take the weather and hope there's no rain.   Take the weather gusting and go on.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT