AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 9, 2012
Ken Duke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Six birdies and an eagle on the back nine.   What happened out there on that second nine? 
KEN DUKE:   I tell you what, I've never been to this place, this is my fifth time, that it hasn't been raining.   The golf course is great.   The greens were firm and fast and the weather is just unbelievable. 
I was upset with myself that I didn't play the front very well, because I think that's where you have to score.   I hit it close the last holes, and to hole one on 16, that's kind of the way it goes out here.   You have good weather and you have to take advantage of it.

Q.   You had that string of birdies leading up to the eagle.   Take us through that eagle on 16 for you?
KEN DUKE:   It was like 142, and my caddie said just try to fly it 135.   It seemed like when it came off the club, thought that's about right, and it hit perfect and went in.

Q.   When you're in the zone like that, do you realize what's going on or do you get to the scoring trailer and they tell you just set the scoring record for the back nine at Pebble Beach? 
KEN DUKE:   I don't care about that.   We're just trying to compete out here and try to play as hard as we can.   It's just an honor to be out here on the TOUR and to compete.   Especially to be here at Pebble with wonderful weather.

Q.   Tom Dreesen, your playing partner, told you it was a joke he told you that loosened you up when you made the turn, and he's responsible for the record breaking round, at least that back nine? 
KEN DUKE:   He was telling me a joke on six, and after we got down to the fairway, he realized I hit it in the water.

Q.   Was the joke during your back swing? 
KEN DUKE:   No, it was going down the fairway.   But he thought I hit it on the fairway.   It was great out there with Joe and Tom and Gavin.   It's great to play with somebody like Tom that really loosens everyone up.   That's what it's all about.

Q.   Tell me how this sets you up the rest of the week and eventually back here to Pebble Beach? 
KEN DUKE:   You have to take each course as it comes.   I don't know if the weather will be the same or not.   But you just have to take it and go with it.   We were glad to get off to a good start.   That is the main thing. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT