WACHOVIA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 5, 2007
Ken Duke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Finished 8-under.  First of all, must be nice to just finish and not have to worry about coming back tomorrow. 
 KEN DUKE:  Yeah, it was good, and plus I got to play with Jason.  I haven't played with him in a long, long time.  We're good friends.  It's just been a long day and we're glad to finish because I don't know if we could have got back out and got back out again tomorrow.  It would have been tough. 

 Q.  As far as the leader coming in, it's going to probably be 10, 11, something like that.  You're at 8.  Do you feel good about your position a couple groups back? 
 KEN DUKE:  Yeah, I'm fine.  Sure, I'd like to be a couple more better, but I made some good saves coming home.  You can't complain on a day like that today.  It's good. 

 Q.  As far as the scoring, it seemed like the greens were probably a little bit softer, maybe fairways not so firm and fast.  You might have been able to keep a couple balls -- 
 KEN DUKE:  Yeah, you just had to get the speed because they've been playing so quick.  If you get the speed you can make a few. 

 Q.  You've played really well recently.  Do you kind of feel you're inching your way towards getting your first win? 
 KEN DUKE:  Yeah, you've got to play well, plus you've got to have some luck.  We're just trying to do what we can do and keep going. 

 Q.  After what you did last year, you've had some pretty big experience on TOUR, but do you feel like you're really getting comfortable out here? 
 KEN DUKE:  I do.  The week of New Orleans I kept my card, and I felt like I could keep going and bring it up a little bit.  I'm playing to move up in the Top 30 now, so trying to keep my card, that's a big deal. 

 Q.  Definitely a comfort factor? 
 KEN DUKE:  Definitely, it really is.  I think my game is at a comfort level.  That's why I talked to Mr. Toski and he switched it the way he switched it, and I think that's the big difference. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT