MLB WORLD SERIES: ROCKIES v RED SOX
October 28, 2007
Terry Francona
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  How about the job Jon Lester did tonight?   
 TERRY FRANCONA:  So proud of Jon Lester.  There's so many things to talk about with Jon.  But the way he pitched, the way he composed himself, the way he competed, I thought it was very appropriate that he got the win.   
  
  Q.  Congratulations.  How does it feel to win a title without having to talk about the curse?  That's all done.  For 80 years the team couldn't win one, and now you've won two in four years.   
 TERRY FRANCONA:  I don't know that that was ever a big deal to us, maybe a long time ago.  But when our organization started adding pitching, the curse kind of went away.  I'm supposed to have a lot of things to say and maybe be a little bit profound, but it's hard to come up with the right words.   
 To go through this from day one until now with people that you really, really care about makes it really special.   
  
  Q.  If I could ask a follow-up to that, how does it feel different this time having won one already and now to come through and win it in the same fashion but different circumstances?   
 TERRY FRANCONA:  You know what, what happened in '04 we'll never forget.  I won't ever forget it.  So many people we're indebted to, so many good players.  But this is '07, and we said that from day one.  And we accomplished our goal, and it's not easy to do.   
 And then like I said, when you do it standing next to people, and the players that you rely on and you depend on and you see them go through the ups and downs, it makes it really, really special.   
  
  Q.  Could you talk about the job Timlin did coming in, getting his fourth, then Oki and Pap might very well have been tired from the night before?   
 TERRY FRANCONA:  Yeah, it would have been interesting to see who would have pitched tomorrow.  Timlin got a huge out.  You know what, and Oki ended up giving up a home run, but he -- the fact that he was even available and wanting to be available kind of shows I think why we ended up being here.  Pap making some great pitches.  I mean, everybody has to do something special for us to be here, and a lot of guys did from top to bottom.   
  
  Q.  There are a couple of points where this could have turned.  Could you just talk a little bit about what Manny does when he comes in there as a guy -- Manny Delcarmen does and he doesn't have a lot of experience, and then Kielty, as well, a couple guys coming up with some big stuff?   
 TERRY FRANCONA:  Yeah, Bobby sitting around being a professional like he is, knowing what his job is and putting a beautiful swing ends up making a difference.  Manny Delcarmen is growing up right in front of our eyes.  It's fun.  You watch the veterans act like little kids, and then you see the young kids starting to act like veterans.  It's gratifying.   
  
  Q.  Anything you want to say about this Rockies team that you faced?   
 TERRY FRANCONA:  Thank you for bringing that up.  I thought the run that they went on, and in this city, having a little bit of background here, it's such a special place, and you saw the way the fans reacted, and they're so classy.  I mean, we beat a very good team.  I hope nobody forgets that because they gave us a battle to the end.  I know when you look at 4-0 it may get lost.  It won't on us.  They're classy people and a classy organization.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT