MLB WORLD SERIES: ROCKIES v RED SOX
October 28, 2007
Terry Francona
John Henry
Mike Lowell
Larry Lucchino
Allan H. "Bud" Selig
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   COMMISSIONER SELIG:  Well, on behalf of Major League Baseball, after waiting 86 years, a second time in four years, great comeback in the American League Championship series, congratulations, Jon, Tom, Larry, Theo, wherever he is here, and Terry.  You've had a magnificent season, and I congratulate you.  And enjoy, and I know you will.   
  
  Q.  Mr. Henry, 2004, the Red Sox Nation lost, and they were almost waiting for someone to steal the title away from them, waiting for the curse to resurface.  How was 2007 different ?   
 JOHN HENRY:  Well, I'll tell you, 2007 was a great year for baseball.  It was a great, great year.  I want to say, this Colorado team, what they accomplished, 21 out of 22, to get to the World Series was incredible, so we want to congratulate them.  The people of Denver have been terrific to us.   
 But for this organization to win, we were here three years ago last night.  To win the second trophy is just an incredible accomplishment.   
  
  Q.  So important for you to be back in the game, to be with a legendary franchise, to get it back to the surface to notoriety.  Very long way from San Diego, would you say?   
 TOM WERNER:  Long way, but 2004 was for our parents and grandparents and those people who suffered through eight decades before a World Championship.  This is for us and for our children and for everybody in Red Sox Nation that we can do it again.   
  
  Q.  Mr. Larry Lucchino, your club grabbed first place in early April and never really seemed to look back, backs against the wall in the LCS.  Was there ever any doubt that you would be standing on this podium, maybe not in Colorado but standing on this podium collecting this trophy?   
 LARRY LUCCHINO:  Absolutely.  There was plenty of doubt from time to time, absolutely.  But the guys in uniform played like a band of brothers the entire season, and we are a grateful ownership and organization tonight to these players, to the fans, to the Red Sox Nation, from the Dominican Republic to Japan, all over the continental U.S., this is for you, as well, thank you and congratulations to you all.   
 COMMISSIONER SELIG:  Our most valuable player trophy, presented by Chevrolet.  Congratulations, a great World Series, you hit .400, you got big hits.  On behalf of baseball and Chevrolet, congratulations, Most Valuable Player in the 2007 World Series, and to all of Red Sox Nation and fans all over, congratulations on this great victory.  Really just an all-around effort by you.   
  
  Q.  Talk about the long ball.   
 MIKE LOWELL:  Just in that situation I was in a 1-one-0 count and Aaron has got a good sinker and just tried to get him to put it up a little.  I got my hands inside, I got through and I knew I hit it well, and it went out and it was a great feeling.   
  
  Q.  This is not your first ring.  I think people are aware of that.  You did it before with the franchise.  It was really just making a mark.  How different is it to win a World Championship wearing this Red Sox uniform?   
 MIKE LOWELL:  Really different.  I think with the Marlins no one expected you to do it, and with the Red Sox people expect you to win.  Very satisfying.  To come through when everybody thinks you won't win a championship and to still win that championship is very rewarding.   
  
  Q.  I know you're going to tell me you just want to bask in this championship right now, but obviously you have a contract that is expiring I think any second now.  Where is your heart at?  Is your heart in Boston?  Are you desirous of shopping yourself around a little bit?   
 MIKE LOWELL:  Well, free agency to me is very new, so I'm going to take it step by step, but I've never hid the fact that I enjoy playing here in Boston.  I have great teammates, a great manager, great coaches, so we'll see what happens, but I'm more focused on celebrating right now.   
  
  Q.  Terry Francona, I don't think we have enough time to give you credit for what you've accomplished here.  You set the bar so high.  You come in first year on the job, you get this nation a World Championship.  How different is it being back here again?   
 TERRY FRANCONA:  It doesn't get old.  I'm so proud of our organization.  I mean, I don't know how to say it because I know I'm supposed to find words, but it's hard.  This is a time when I just want to watch our players enjoy what they did because what this organization accomplished is so special.   
  
  Q.  This is something we find ourselves asking players.  Do you look at your numbers, do you see what you're doing?  Do you see your dominance in the postseason, it's Hall-of-Fame atmosphere and back-to-book sweeps?   
 TERRY FRANCONA:  I couldn't breathe the last inning.  It doesn't feel like that.  You're fighting so hard to get through that game, and so many guys had to dig deep.  There will be a time when we can sit back and enjoy it, but not when you're playing.  It's so hard.   
  
  Q.  Let me ask you, what is the Red Sox Nation supposed to do?  We've got a couple of titles here.  We're supposed to wait a long time, yes?   
 TERRY FRANCONA:  We'll figure it out.  We'll get back home tomorrow and celebrate with the fans and the organization.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT