AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: INDIANS v RED SOX
October 13, 2007
Terry Francona
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  How do you even begin to describe the emotional up and downs of this game?   
 TERRY FRANCONA:  It certainly didn't end like we wanted it to, but for the very most part that was one of the most exciting games I think I've ever been a part of, so much good baseball.  Just didn't end very well for us.   
  
  Q.  With the short outings by the starters, could you see that this was going to be a game where both managers were taxed just to try to get the maximum out of the bullpens?   
 TERRY FRANCONA:  You could certainly see that that was a possibility, and we had a chance with Youk's at-bat, that great at-bat where he had the line drive up center field, had a chance to end it there.   
 You know, both us and Cleveland had gotten into our bullpens so early, and our bullpens really did a pretty good job, getting to extra innings and you're trying to stop one run, and the bottom kind of fell out for us.   
  
  Q.  Obviously in post-season series momentum changes quickly, but you're in a position the last couple of innings where maybe you get a big hit and go up 2-0; now it's a 1-1 series best of five.   
 TERRY FRANCONA:  I think it's kind of stating the obvious, but we didn't win tonight, we'll go have our workout in about ten hours.  Again, I don't think it's realistic.  It would be a nice idea if you could run through the postseason without losing.  I don't know how realistic that is.   
 That's one of the better-played games, again, up until about the last 15 minutes, by both teams, that I've ever been a part of.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about the top of the inning just briefly?   
 TERRY FRANCONA:  We got Blake on a strikeout, Sizemore hits the first pitch, fastball, base hit, walk.  We tried to set up the inning, again, without not having a whole lot of pitchers left, having an answer for whatever they did.  We ended up having Javy facing Trot.  I think we'd be more comfortable if nobody was on base, but Javy hadn't faced a lot of lefties in a short period of time, and then it unraveled from there.   
  
  Q.  You look a little wiped out after this one.   
 TERRY FRANCONA:  I think I always look like that.   
  
  Q.  Is it kind of tough to rally a team back from this?  Is this a draining thing to rally back from?   
 TERRY FRANCONA:  It's a long night for both teams.  I wish we would have won.  But no, if this does us in, we're not as good as we thought we were.  It's a frustrating end to a really exciting game, but we'll get on the plane in a little while and go regroup and have a nice little workout tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  You know Trot, in that situation is he just a guy you expect is just going to give you a tough at-bat?   
 TERRY FRANCONA:  We were really hoping he'd make an out.  Again, we're trying to have an answer for whatever they did, and both teams had used a lot of players.  Under the circumstances for how many pitchers we had gone through, we were actually pretty happy to have a left on left in that situation.  It didn't work very well.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT