AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: RED SOX v YANKEES
October 15, 2004
Terry Francona
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What does the rainout do to your starting rotation? 
 
TERRY FRANCONA:  Nothing as of yet.  Bronson will go tomorrow, Wake and Derek.  
 
Q.  No thought of Pedro on regular rest? 
 
TERRY FRANCONA:  I take that back.  The next two days are etched in stone.  After that, most likely going to be Derek, Pedro coming back on the extra day.   We kind of reserve the right to change that or look at it a little bit more.  
 
Q.  We saw that Curt was out there throwing.  What kind of a work-out was that, were you working with something new there, and did you learn negative? 
 
TERRY FRANCONA:  What he did is he went out and threw with a high-top shoe for a little bit of added support, without any stabilizing or bracing or anything like that, and threw an extended side day, along with a long toss throw program, which is usually what he does and actually did pretty well.  Well enough where we are just leaving the door open for his season not to be over, but that's about the extent of it right now.  
 
Q.  I understand you're reserving your right to change your mind, but what's your thinking for now saying Pedro in Game 6 rather than Game 5? 
 
TERRY FRANCONA:  Pardon?  
 
Q.  Why not right now, why not right now say Pedro will go on his four days' rest in Game 5? 
 
TERRY FRANCONA:  Game 5?  I don't want to.  
 
Q.  Okay. 
 
TERRY FRANCONA:  I don't think that -- I don't want to do that.  Whether you want me to or not -- 
 
Q.  I'm not --
 
TERRY FRANCONA:  Okay.  That's what it sounded like.  (Laughter.) 
 
Q.  What do you think the extra day off is going to mean for Bronson?  Was he ready to go today, and what's his routine tomorrow?
 
TERRY FRANCONA:  I think Bronson has shown the ability to make adjustments all year long.  Early in the year he was the one guy that got bounced around a little bit from time to time.  I think he'll be just fine.  I think it will have no bearing on how he pitches tomorrow. 
 
Q.  On Schilling, I assume he didn't use any of the Marcaine and was he using as much force as he would off the mound? 
 
TERRY FRANCONA:  He actually might have used a little bit, not in the whole area, though.  He threw with a lot more of a normal stride than we had seen in New York, which just by itself was encouraging.  The ball came out of his hand even in long toss different than if he was nursing a little bit.  So again, we were encouraged, but that's the first step of a process to see if he can come back and pitch.  
 
Q.  And what is the next step? 
 
TERRY FRANCONA:  Well, he shows up tomorrow.  That's the next thing.  Can't get ahead of that because till he shows up tomorrow, we don't know how he's going to feel. 
 
Q.  Is there a concern with him pitching on a wet mound?  Would that affect his stride or his ankle?
 
TERRY FRANCONA:  I think we are hoping the mound is going to be dry.  I mean, if it rains, they have drying agents and things like that.  So, I mean, if he goes out there and it's wet, I assume we would ask for some drying agents.  I mean, they are not going to play on a mound that's not playable. 
 
Q.  But like on the grass, if it's slippery on the grass, too, will that affect him if he has to field the ball; is that a concern, also? 
 
TERRY FRANCONA:  We will ask them not to bunt if it's wet.  (Laughter.)  I'm fairly confident that they would adhere to that.  (Laughter.) 
 
Q.  Can you compare this session at all to the one he had before Game 1 on Sunday? 
 
TERRY FRANCONA:  Well, I wasn't out there, again, when he woke up.  Talking to Wally, talking to Chris, this gave us reason to be optimistic, watching his stride in the bullpen compared to his game, though, it was better today. 
 
Q.  As far as the things that make you optimistic, yesterday a lot of description of what he was going through, that sensation of the tendon going over the bone, he called it clicking or snapping --
 
TERRY FRANCONA:  Yes. 
 
Q.  Does he still experience that, or, I mean, was he experiencing that today or did the new shoe keep the tendon in place? 
 
TERRY FRANCONA:  Actually, a little bit of both.  He threw with the high-top, he took the high-top off because the actual size of the shoe didn't feel real good; it's a brand new shoe.  He went with a low-top, experienced some of the clicking, went back to the high-top, I think still experienced some clicking, but not to the point where he couldn't manage it.  I think we got to the point to where we were talking yesterday that that clicking may be there.  We all know what's wrong with him, but if he can manage it, that might be more than half the battle, and he seemed today, for at least in his bullpen session, to manage it, so we'll just see how it goes from here. 
 
Q.  Mel Stottlemyre was just in here saying that Kevin Brown, obviously an emotional guy, was geared up and ready to go and now this gets called off.  He's been so inconsistent this year for the Yankees; does this help or hurt, and what do you expect from him tomorrow? 
 
TERRY FRANCONA:  Kevin Brown?  You know what, I don't even know Kevin.  My hope is it hurts him. (Laughter.)  But, again, if it's a wet field, maybe we'll bunt.  (Laughter.) He's a good pitcher.  He's been a good pitcher for a long time.  My concerns are about our guys, and I think Bronson will be fine.  
 
Q.  Yesterday there was talk about a second splint for Curt's ankle; has that been discarded, was this a halfway measure with the high-top or is there another scenario out there?
 
TERRY FRANCONA:  There was actually a lot of scenarios.  We were here early today, again trying to do the right thing for him, for us, which is basically the same thing.  I think our first plan was what we did.  We thought it was the best thing to do was go out there after it was explained to us by the medical people to let him go out there with a high-top without it splinted and see how he tolerated that.  So we really never got past that part.  
 
Q.  There seems to be a belief that with another day off here that might help slow down the Yankee momentum more.  Do you buy into that or view that as advantageous for your team?
 
TERRY FRANCONA:  Well, they didn't win tonight.  You know what?  I guess I kind of view it that we didn't play.  We still need to win when we play next, and that should be tomorrow.  It's going to help whoever wins next.  That's what's going to happen, so we need to play good just like we've said all along.  
 
Q.  Could you, because we don't get to talk to Curt after this thing, can you at least tell us how he felt after coming off, what his demeanor was like, and how optimistic or not optimistic he was? 
 
TERRY FRANCONA:  To be very honest, we really didn't get into that, and I'm being truthful.  This is the first step, and the next step is to see how he shows up tomorrow.  And from there, then we'll see.  Again, I just kind of explained it truthfully.  The door hasn't been closed, but that's where we're at. 
 
Q.  Was there anything medically done to Curt's ankle that made him feel better in the last day or two that got you to this point of feeling comfortable to even have him try to throw?
 
TERRY FRANCONA:  Well, he was going to throw yesterday but he didn't feel good enough to do the throwing. As far as everything they have done for him with the trainer, I can't tell you that.  They work on every pitcher before.  You know, you've seen that; these guys don't just go out and throw.  As to everything they are doing, I don't know. But he just felt good enough where he could go do it today.  He may show up tomorrow and be sore again.  We are just trying to do the best we can with the situation. 
 
Q.  In regards to any decision-making about Game 5, what kinds of factors; for example, will the score of the series at that time play a big role in your decision, and also, are you any more comfortable starting one guy in Yankee Stadium than another?
 
TERRY FRANCONA:  What it's going to come down to is we are trying to win the series.  That will be how we base our decision solely; not to extend the series, to get to a certain game.  It's based on trying to win four games.  So that's what we're going to do.  
 
Q.  Not trying to get into minutia, but you said the high-top for Curt, it didn't fit quite right; there a possibility that he could get another size high-top or it's either the high-top that he has now or the low-top? 
 
TERRY FRANCONA:  Maybe I didn't explain that right.  It was just the wrong size.  It wasn't -- the upwards, it worked good.  It just hurt his toes. 
 
Q.  So can he get another?
 
TERRY FRANCONA:  Yeah, we'll see if we can get a bigger size.  All of that stuff, and we've got the wrong size.  (Laughter.) 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT