MLB WORLD SERIES: CUBS VS INDIANS
November 1, 2016
Terry Francona
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Chicago Cubs - 9, Cleveland Indians - 3
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Terry Francona.
Q. Terry, Tomlin's been so good for you guys this postseason.  What did you see out of him early on?
TERRY FRANCONA: I thought coming out of the gate he looked terrific.  I mean, first two hitters, small sample, but kind of shows you what stuff he's going to have.  Throwing strikes and it was crisp.  You know, he got ahead of Bryant 0-2, and left a breaking ball.  He was trying to bounce it or get it down out of the zone, and threw it way, way too good, and Bryant hit the solo.
Then getting into the third, I just thought he had a harder time throwing his breaking ball where he wanted to.  It was just catching a lot of the plate.
Q. How big is it for you to have, Shaw, Miller and Allen well rested for tomorrow?
TERRY FRANCONA: I'll tell you after tomorrow night.  I mean, the idea was -- you always want to win the game, but the next best thing, and we've talked about this before we even started, was try to make them use pitching even in a loss.  So we hung around enough, at least Chapman had to pitch.  You never know, maybe that helps us.
Q. What did Lonnie and Tyler tell you that happened there on that flyball?
TERRY FRANCONA: Lonnie went hard after it, as he should, but it's Naquin's ball.  He was playing on that side and he's the center fielder.  And I think at the end there, as Lonnie was kind of pulling off, Naquin was yelling, "It's yours.  You got it."  It's pretty loud anyway.  I think we kind of told Nake especially playing on that side, that's his ball.  Just take charge and take it.  Kind of made it hard on Lonnie because you've got to go hard until you hear something.
That was an unfortunate play, because that we thought we were out of the inning with one, kind of regroup, and instead it's three and JT had to keep pitching.
Q. What did you see out of Salazar?  And is he available for tomorrow?
TERRY FRANCONA: Well, I mean, I thought Danny threw the ball pretty well.  Again, the No. 1 goal with Danny was to get him back healthy, and I think he proved that, which is tremendous.  I don't think we need to tell everybody who is going to pitch tomorrow.  That's probably a competitive thing that we'll -- I would venture to say it's all hands on deck though.
Q. With Rajai Davis did you think about pinch-hitting him there with the bases loaded?  It looked like they unintentionally intentionally walked Coco to get to Tyler there?
TERRY FRANCONA: In the fourth?
Q. Yeah.
TERRY FRANCONA: No, I didn't want to do that.  I guess I thought about it, yeah.  Just we started Naquin one at-bat in, and it didn't work in our favor.  But, no, I would have rather seen Nake hit there.
Q. As much as you've overcome to this point, how much confidence do you have in how you guys will bounce back from what's obviously a low point right now?
TERRY FRANCONA: Yeah, tonight was a tough night.  You can, however get philosophical or whatever, have sayings.  What it comes down to is, I'm going to go out on a limb and say it's a really important game tomorrow.  And we'll be really excited to play.
You learn from your mistakes and then move on quickly, and we'll do that.  It will be exciting to come to the ballpark tomorrow.  Shoot, I might just wear my uniform home.  I might get ice cream on it though, so maybe I better not.
Q. Just your level of confidence in a game like that, putting Kluber on the mound?
TERRY FRANCONA: That's a good feeling, and I know they love their guy, too, as they should.  It's Game 7.  You've got two really, really good pitchers, and it will be exciting.  Like I said before tonight's game, it's an honor to even be a part of it, and we're going to give it everything we have.  I can't imagine a better group of guys to go through something like this with.  I'm looking forward to it already.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT