AL DIVISION SERIES: INDIANS VS ASTROS
October 7, 2018
Terry Francona
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We'll get started with Tito.   
 Q.  Tito, will you go normal kind of lineup against the lefty tomorrow, or do you expect any changes?  
TERRY FRANCONA: I think we're going to play Guyer in right and Edwin at first and DH Yandy.  That's kind of what we've been doing, you know, the last six, eight weeks when everybody's healthy.   
 Q.  Tito, just how much do you think it helps Clev that he has known that Game 3 was his assignment, he could prepare for it?  It's different from his past postseason experiences.  
TERRY FRANCONA: I think whatever you throw at Clev, he'll be okay.  I think when you know what's in front of you, you can certainly prepare.  I also think there's times like what Trevor's doing right now.  I think he's handling it fine too.   
I think you get into these situations, and it's kind of all hands on deck, and you do whatever you can to help.   
I think if we'd asked Clev to go to the bullpen, he would have done that too.  I know Kluber had asked us yesterday, you know, if he should go to the bullpen.  I mean, it's that time of year where guys, they want to help.   
So I think he'd have handled it either way.   
 Q.  Do you have a plan in place if it gets to Game 4, starter-wise, or are you not looking that far ahead yet?  
TERRY FRANCONA: Well, it depends how we get there.  It would either be Bieber or Bauer.  You know, Trevor's obviously available in the bullpen tomorrow.  So we'll -- right now, we want to get to Game 4 so you can't -- it may take all hands on deck to get there.   
If that happens, then we'll figure it out.   
 Q.  Again, this is kind of looking ahead a little bit.  But with Carlos, given he only threw 77 pitches, when would you anticipate he would be soonest available in a bullpen setting?  
TERRY FRANCONA: Soonest, possibly Game 4.  That would be the soonest.  That might be pushing it a little bit.  A lot of it depends on how he feels, how he comes out of that.  But that would definitely be a possibility.   
 Q.  Tito, what kind of vibe did you get from the players coming home last night?  Where do you think they are?  Kind of down 0-2, facing an elimination game?  
TERRY FRANCONA: Kind of like I said last night, I think, after the game.  I think Houston is going to enjoy the off day a lot more than us.  That's kind of human nature.  We have an optional workout today.  We got a ton of guys in here.  Some are getting treatment, some are hitting, some are -- some guys are throwing.   
No, we're okay.  I'd rather be up 2-0 than down 2-0.  But it's still the first one to get to three.  And I'd rather have a game -- I'd rather have a chance than no chance.  I mean, I understand that the odds start to go not in your favor.  But been on both sides of this, and come back and had people come back on us.   
So rather than spend a ton of time thinking about all that, we need to figure out a way to beat them, because the first two games, they've really kind of had their way with us.  We need to change that.   
 Q.  What challenges does Keuchel present?  You're pretty familiar with him.  
TERRY FRANCONA: Obviously different than the first two guys.  One, he's left-handed and not the power pitcher that those two guys are.  I think the best way to say it is he probably always feels like he's a pitch away from a double play.   
He can sink that ball arm side and off of that throw his changeup.  Again, I think the best way I can say it is you have to stay -- you have to stay true to what you believe against him, because you're always one pitch away from him getting out of a rally because he can sink it so low.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT