AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: BLUE JAYS VS INDIANS
October 17, 2016
Terry Francona
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Cleveland - 4, Toronto - 2
Q. Two things, how exhausting was that mentally and physically, just going out, all the pitching changes; and also the job your bullpen did?
TERRY FRANCONA: That wasn't the way we drew it up.  But about our bullpen, that's one of the most amazing jobs I've ever seen.  I mean, starting with Otero to Manship to McAllister to Shaw, if anybody has a hiccup we probably lose.  And they all made pitches, and against some really good hitters.
Q. Can you kind of go through the first inning when John said something to Brian and then you go out on the mound and blood and just, you know, there was no chance I'm guessing that he could have stayed in?
TERRY FRANCONA: No.  When I went out there, I mean -- first thing I saw was blood on the rubber.  I figured that wasn't a real good sign that things were going well.  It was bleeding pretty good.  The weird thing, it was only one little spot that opened, but, man, it was coming out a lot.  And Gibby actually called me, he said -- he goes, that's not really what we wanted to do, but it was pretty -- I get it.  I mean, shoot, it was only a matter of time until everybody saw it.  It was bleeding pretty bad.
Q. You had a very similar game when Carrasco got hurt against the Tigers late in the season.  Do you think your guys could draw on that a little bit and know that it wasn't an impossible task?
TERRY FRANCONA: I mean, we have done that a few times.  I don't think anybody ever thinks that we can't get it done, one way or another.  I admit that's a little bit of unique way to win a playoff game.  But the alternative is to lose.  I don't think anybody wants to do that.
Q. I'm guessing the medical staff gave you a range of what could happen with Bauer's finger.  With it happening, starting to bleed so quickly, was that one of the scenarios that it could happen that quickly?
TERRY FRANCONA: Yeah, that was probably about the worst.  I mean, we had as many good opinions as we could get.  I thought the medical people prepared as well as they could.
After watching Trevor go through this week I was surprised that that happened.  I think everybody was.  But it did.  I mean, I don't think you can simulate trying to be at game speed and things like that.  And unfortunately, it opened up.  So kind of go back to the drawing board with Trevor and see how quickly we can start over with him.
Q. That was such a wild first inning, the cameras were on you when it appeared you gave a little like this (indicating).  Was that just you scratching?
TERRY FRANCONA: When was that?
Q. When Gibbons was talking to Gorman.  Was there anything intentional?
TERRY FRANCONA: Oh, no.  My goodness, oh, no, my goodness.  Gibby was unbelievable about it.  No, no, I don't remember, but no.
Q. And a follow-up, pretty sure Kluber tomorrow?
TERRY FRANCONA: Yes.  When I came off the mound after taking Trevor out, that was kind of the one thing that lifted my spirits a little bit, is the first guy I saw was Kluber.
Q. Do you anticipate any restrictions on your relievers tomorrow given how much they were used tonight?
TERRY FRANCONA: We used a large number of them, but nobody -- I think Shaw threw 27, which was the most.  I'm guessing everybody will be available tomorrow.
Q. I know it's a different situation, but did you have any flashbacks at all to Curt Schilling and the bloody sock when you were dealing with what Trevor was going through?
TERRY FRANCONA: No, that was 12 years ago.  I can barely remember last week.  I don't think of that stuff during the game, believe me.  I know that would make for a good story, but that's not what I was thinking about tonight.
Q. Now that this game is over, you said you're going with Kluber tomorrow, can you sort of maybe walk through the thought process between bringing him back short tomorrow when you're up 3-0, and maybe saving him when he's on full rest, and what went into that decision?
TERRY FRANCONA: If we don't bring him back tomorrow and he pitches Game 5, we don't have a starter for Game 7.  I mean, we have to physically have a starter.  So this is the best way to do it.  I mean, this is the only way to do it.  There's no other way around it.  We don't have another starter right now.  It's not that difficult.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT