AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX VS INDIANS
October 10, 2016
Terry Francona
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Cleveland - 4   
Boston - 3   
TERRY FRANCONA: I wanted to congratulate the Red Sox on their year.  That's quite a team we were fortunate enough to beat.  And also to David, that was an honor to be on the field for his last game.  I think you can see by the way the fans reacted, their outpouring of affection for him, that was an honor.   
 Q.  I guess once Tomlin got through the fifth, how were you planning the timing of going to the bullpen?  Did that play out the way you wanted?  
TERRY FRANCONA: Josh was throwing the ball so well that I didn't want to go get him too quick, because he was hitting his spots so well.  But when they got to the top of the order, you know, and a home run can tie it or take the lead, especially in this ballpark, some of those right-handers, it's hard to have Andrew up warming up and not bring him in the game.   
So I thought Josh did exactly what he was supposed to do.  And I thought we were to the point in the game where if everything played out, we could cover it.  It doesn't guarantee anything, and they certainly made us work for it.  But there's a reason we went and got Andrew Miller.   
 Q.  Knowing that you've been here and a close friend of John's, how difficult was the series?  Did it go beyond anything you've ever had in baseball as far as trying to keep in check the emotions of competing against people that you know very well?  
TERRY FRANCONA: No.  Regardless of what the score of the game is or the series, our friendship is always going to be beyond baseball.  But when the game starts, there's a reason we're doing this job, both of us, we desperately want to win, I know he does, too.  But the next time I see him, it's always the same.   
 Q.  As the pitch count was climbing for Allen and he's going full counts, what's going through your mind at that point?  Was there a point you were ever tempted to bring in somebody else?  
TERRY FRANCONA: No, he was going to finish one way or another.  You kind of throw pitch counts out the window in a game like this.  I know where it was, but he was going to finish, like I said, one way or another.   
 Q.  What does it mean for you to celebrate in this ballpark, if anything different than a normal celebration?  
TERRY FRANCONA: Well, I've done it before.  You know what, what it meant to me is to celebrate with the Indians and our crew.  I don't care where it is.  I mean, I respect that we beat a heck of a team, but to celebrate with our guys, that's what was meaningful for me.   
 Q.  As one of John's very good friends, I'm sure you heard throughout the year that there was criticism that he might not be the manager of the Red Sox anymore.  What is your evaluation of how John did this year?  
TERRY FRANCONA: I would never evaluate another manager.  He's one of my best friends in the world.  But I have my hands full with our team.  I don't need to ever evaluate -- I think John's a star at whatever he does, whether it's pitching coach, manager.  He'll probably be a general manager some day, he's got the entire skill-set.  Obviously I'm a big fan.  But I'm also one of his best friends.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT