AL DIVISION SERIES: INDIANS VS ASTROS
October 6, 2018
Terry Francona
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Houston - 3, Cleveland - 1   
 Q.  Terry, how did you feel Carrasco pitched?  
TERRY FRANCONA: I thought he was terrific.  I thought he really, really did well.  We got to a point in the game where -- oh, boy, with a one-run lead, and with Gonzalez coming up the way he had swung the bat against him prior and Andrew's history, I felt really good about it.  Didn't work out the way we obviously planned.   
 Q.  With Bauer, any thoughts of bringing him in instead of Miller, or did you just like the matchup --  
TERRY FRANCONA: No, we wanted Andrew.  That's what we wanted right there.   
 Q.  When it comes to a game like this where you have such good starting pitching, you have the big at-bat from Lindor, obviously, is it just that making a few mistakes seems so costly when you play against a team like the Astros?  Because, obviously, you've had some good performances from your players.  
TERRY FRANCONA: Is there a question in there somewhere?   
 Q.  The question is more:  Does it feel like the small mistakes blow up into the reason why a loss can happen?  
TERRY FRANCONA: I don't know that there is anything small in games like this.  Part of why they're good is, obviously, their pitching, but they always push.  They continue to push.  And they put heat on you all the time.  They've got a very good ball club, and part of -- like we've been talking about it since the day before the series.  They continue to push, and they either run you in the mistake or hit the ball out of the ballpark.  They have a lot of ways to beat you.   
 Q.  What did you think of Cole?  And specifically, how did you think he was incorporating both his slider and his curveball?  
TERRY FRANCONA: Oh, boy, his fastball was -- you know, you could see it by the radar gun, but that sweeping breaking ball, that's a pretty good combination.  When Frankie hit the home run, it gave us a huge lift, but that's a lot to ask to make that hold up.   
 Q.  Did you think Altuve's ball down the third base line would have gone foul, or was it just a tough call?  
TERRY FRANCONA: I don't know.  I didn't even go back and look yet.  I probably have the worst view.  If you're in Donaldson's spot, you don't have the replay.  That's a hard one.   
 Q.  What are some of the things that your team can rely on going back home, down 0-2, having now to win three games in a row to advance?  
TERRY FRANCONA: I don't think we need to look at it like that.  We just need to find a way to win Monday.  I'm guessing that Houston will enjoy their off-day more than we will.  Other than that, show up on Monday and play for our baseball life.  Nobody wants to go home.  So try to keep this thing going.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT