AL DIVISION SERIES: INDIANS VS ASTROS
October 5, 2018
Terry Francona
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Houston-7, Cleveland-2
Q. Tito, what do you see from Kluber, especially in the fourth inning?
TERRY FRANCONA: The fourth inning was a really tough inning.  I think they made him throw 33, 35 pitches.  Just seemed like with his two-seamer, when he left it up, they made him pay.  I think they pretty much did that with the whole staff.  And when we made a mistake, they had the four home runs, and they showed us they can score runs getting hits also.  But the damage was done on balls that were elevated.
Q. Tito, you stressed before the game, when you go to your bullpen, you are in your bullpen.  I'm just curious, with the effort it took Kluber to get through the fourth, was there any temptation to go to the pen for the fifth or specifically Bauer there?
TERRY FRANCONA: No, because like you say, once you go, you're committed -- if you win, five innings, and four if you lose.  We've got a game tomorrow.  Once we were behind, I wanted to try to keep it where it was, not have the guys pitch too much, but also get them in and maybe take some of the rust off.
Q. Any surprise that Hinch was so aggressive with Verlander?  First sign of trouble there, going to the bullpen?
TERRY FRANCONA: I've got my hands full here.  I don't ever manage the other team.
Q. What did you think of Verlander after seeing him so much with Detroit?
TERRY FRANCONA: He's tremendous.  I mean, their whole staff is very good.  He had power.  He had a breaking ball.  When you're throwing 96, 97, and you can throw a 3-2 breaking ball, he presented a lot of challenges for our hitters.
Q. What did you think of Trevor Bauer in this game, and how might using him today factor into a potential Game 4 start for him?
TERRY FRANCONA: He needed to regardless.  I mean, we're not even thinking about Game 4.  Our sights are set on Game 2.  But I thought it was important for him to get in and pitch.  With Trevor, he could probably pitch every game.  If he doesn't, getting in was important for him.  We didn't want him to go ten days without pitching.
Q. Do you read anything into Corey's outing today?  One bad outing?  How he struggled last year in the postseason, do you have any concern about where he is right now?
TERRY FRANCONA: Last year has nothing to do with today.  They're a good team.  He made a couple of mistakes.  They made him pay for it.
Q. Long term, do you think he's healthy, he's fine?
TERRY FRANCONA: Kluber?
Q. Yeah.
TERRY FRANCONA: Oh, yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT