AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: RED SOX v RAYS
October 16, 2008
Terry Francona
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Is a win a win, or is this something a little more than that, considering the way that you came back to do it and the situation?   
 TERRY FRANCONA: Well, considering a lot of things. I mean, a loss, and we stay home. I've never seen a group so happy to get on a plane at 1:30 in the morning in my life.   
 That was -- I can't say the game was exciting because the first six innings we did nothing. They had their way with us every way possible.   
 And then this place came unglued, and we've seen that before. But because of the situation we're in, it just -- that was pretty magical.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about Ortiz's hit, and then the two hits by Drew?  
 TERRY FRANCONA: Well, David got us back into at least where if something else happens, it makes it interesting, where all of a sudden they've got to go to the bullpen, do some different things.   
 J.D. squared up two balls really well. Coco's at-bat was probably the best at-bat he's had as a Red Sox, again, because of the situation.   
 But we did some unbelievable things. Pap went out and threw another inning. He was gassed from the first inning. So we get to keep playing, and that's truly thrilling.   
  
  Q. Is it remarkable to you that Drew, a guy you didn't think you'd even have because of his back, has done what he's done in these playoffs?  
 TERRY FRANCONA: I think we're thrilled that he's playing, but the more at-bats he can get hopefully and stay healthy, the better -- the more damage he can do.   
 That was a very -- he had a 3-0 change-up, very intelligent at-bat. He did a very good job of getting something in the zone and driving it.   
  
  Q. Have you given yourself a moment to connect this in any way with Dave Roberts in '04 yet?  
 TERRY FRANCONA: No, no. There's no time to connect anything except figuring out what we're going to do going forward. There will be time. Hopefully we can sit back and think, this is what got us over the hump, but we're still climbing.   
  
  Q. Have you given any thought yet to rearranging your pitching down the Florida, or is it still Beckett in six and Lester in seven?  
 TERRY FRANCONA: Yeah, that's exactly what we're going to do.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT