AL DIVISION SERIES: INDIANS VS ASTROS
October 4, 2018
Terry Francona
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. The Astros had not acquired Martin Maldonado the first couple times you played in the regular season.  What different dynamic does he bring to that team, and how good defensively is he?
TERRY FRANCONA: He's very good, and he has not just the element of shutting down your running game a little bit, but also you got to be careful how far you wander off bases because he's so quick back-picking.  But their pitchers also do a pretty good job, and kind of like our catchers, if you give your guys a chance, they're pretty good.
Q. This has been a topic of conversation in Cleveland, but those of us in Houston now have a chance to ask you.  What has been responsible for Jose Ramirez's downturn after what was clearly an MVP track this season?
TERRY FRANCONA: You mean the struggles he had in the last month?
Q. Yeah.
TERRY FRANCONA: I think, unless your name's maybe Ted Williams, everybody usually has a spot during the season where they have some struggles.  He got a little out of whack mechanically.  I don't think it's ever just one thing.  I think we believe in Jose a lot.
And this goes for everybody.  Regardless of how you ended the season, come tomorrow it's brand new for everybody.
Q. Terry, we got to know Brad Mills when he was here as manager.  You guys have had a great relationship.
TERRY FRANCONA: I'm sorry.
Q. Exactly.  You guys have had a great relationship before and after that.  Can you tell me what he does for you.
TERRY FRANCONA: Absolutely nothing.  (Laughter.)
You know, if they say the guy that helps you is your left arm, he's probably both.  He does a lot, and I know that.  Actually, the more he does, the better off we are.  He's got a ton of responsibility with us, and he makes me better.  He makes the team better.
But for me, the comfort level that I have because he's around is second to none.  We've known each other since 1977, and that's a long time.  I kid him a lot when he'll say something, and I'll say, I know you better than you know you, but then he says the same thing to me.
Q. Tito, Yan said he was able to throw the bases today.  What's his activity level been like beyond that, and will he be okay to start tomorrow?
TERRY FRANCONA: Completely normal workout.  He's fine.  There's -- I mean, there are no limitations, and it won't get in the way.
Q. Did you make a decision yet on the last bench spot?
TERRY FRANCONA: Yes, we're going to go with Rajai.  We talked to him, and we also talked to Erik.
Q. Just the speed factor that Rajai brings?
TERRY FRANCONA: You know what, you just -- again, nobody has a crystal ball, but who could impact a series, we felt like Raj had a better chance.  It's nothing against Gonzy.  But if Gonzy gets in, that meant something went wrong.  If something goes wrong, we might be kicking ourselves, but I think we felt like the risk is worth the reward.
Q. Tito, your starting staff has been good for several years now over here.  Was it better this year than ever before?  If so, why do you think that improvement happened?
TERRY FRANCONA: I don't know, last year was -- I don't know statistically how they rank as far as year to year.  With the emergence of Kluber -- not Kluber, Clevinger kind of settling into that role and giving us 200 innings.  It's nice to see him prove that he can go that much.  Bieber coming up and doing what he did.  Kluber and Carrasco and Bauer until he got hurt -- it's a big part of why we have gotten to where we are, and if we advance, they'll be a big part of it.
Q. Your thoughts on the development of Alex Bregman and where he's at today?
TERRY FRANCONA: I don't know where he is.  I'm guessing he'll be here in a little while.
Q. How he's playing.
TERRY FRANCONA: He has turned himself into one of the elite players in the game.  Dangerous, a little bit like Jose Ramirez.  He may not look like the biggest guy on the field, but he's a dangerous, good hitter, and we respect that.
Q. Just return to Jose.  When he is right, he destroys fastballs, just feasts on them.  What is it about either his approach, his natural ability, his swing that makes him so, so effective at clobbering fastballs, basically better than anybody?
TERRY FRANCONA: Well, I think a couple things.  One, his hand-eye coordination is off the charts; and, two, his hands are so strong.  Like he's not the biggest guy, but when you shake hands with him, his hands are so strong.
Q. Tito, what went in to Yandy Diaz making the roster?  How do you see his role?
TERRY FRANCONA: Well, it gives us protection against them bringing in a lefty.  It's another guy that can play the infield, but it's a guy that really swings the bat really well against left-handers.  That's basically why he's there.
Q. You have a player as Francisco Lindor who can do a lot of damage to the Astros.  What are the expectations of about him?
TERRY FRANCONA: When people say, what are the expectations?  I hope he goes 20 for 20.  Nobody knows.  The expectation is that he'll show up, be our lead-off hitter, play shortstop, and be himself and be ready to play because you just don't know how -- that's why we're going to play.
I'm sure that A.J. is probably saying the same thing about Correa and his guys.  You want your guys to be prepared, so when the time comes, they can show their best.  Then you take what happens.
Q. What are some things that A.J. Hinch did in the last postseason, if you had a chance to watch it as you observed, that you admired?
TERRY FRANCONA: That I admired?
Q. Decisions he made maybe.
TERRY FRANCONA: I don't ever manage another team.  I've got enough with my own team.  I don't ever evaluate, ever.  The fact that they won and things didn't go necessarily according to plan, like in the bullpen, shows that they're not afraid to deviate or whatever.
But I never -- like I said, I've got my hands full doing what I do here.
Q. Just get some thoughts from you about Justin Verlander.
TERRY FRANCONA: Oh, boy.  He's one of the best.  He's been one of the best.  He's been doing it for forever.  Maybe about five, six years ago, it looked like he was starting to show some wear and tear, and then that went away also.
He's fun to face, and the reason I say that, not because you think you're going to beat him around, but because he's so good.  It's a lot like the Astros.  They present so many challenges, but they're fun to play.  I mean, they're really good, as is Verlander.
But if we want to get where we're going, we're going to have to figure out a way to beat them, but they're fun to play.
Q. We were talking the other day about Trevor, Shane in Game 4, and it depends what happens in the first three.  You said Andrew can't throw 50 pitches like he did two years ago.  Can Trevor be that guy?  Can Trevor throw you 50 pitches in one game and come back the next night and be available again?
TERRY FRANCONA: If anybody could, it's probably him.  Again, he could throw -- Andrew could throw 50 pitches.  I don't know that we want to do that is kind of my point.  I don't know that we want to do that with anybody.
Sometimes things happen, and, again, you can't recreate every single thing that happened a couple years ago, but our job now is to take who we have now and get the best out of them.
I guess a roundabout way of answering your question is, if we get where we want, my guess is that Trevor's going to be used a ton.
Q. Tito, how comforting is it to have a guy like Kluber instead of having to piece together an opener type thing that's kind of like the new rage?
TERRY FRANCONA: Well, as far as Klub goes, we love it.  I'm sure they feel the same way with Verlander.  I think, as an organization or a team, you do what you think puts you in the best position.  If that's to have an opener, okay.  But I know how we feel with Kluber pitching, and it's good, and he's earned that.  Same with Verlander.
But if for some reason it changed and we had to have somebody -- you know, again, you're just trying to -- sometimes you have to think outside the box to get where you're going.  If we have to do that at some point, maybe we will.  Not tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT