AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: RED SOX v RAYS
October 11, 2008
Terry Francona
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. I'm having a hard time figuring out if this is a great game or a terrible game. What did you think about that whole thing?
 TERRY FRANCONA: Yeah, that's an interesting way to put it. There was a lot going on. Both starters seemed to kind of have the same problem. Both teams went about it a little differently, got to the same place in the end, and were on the road in extra innings, and there's no margin for error.

 Q. Can you discuss the factors by which you let Beckett go out and pitch a fifth inning?
 TERRY FRANCONA: I didn't hear that, sorry.

 Q. The factors that went into letting Beckett pitch a fifth inning. 
 TERRY FRANCONA: We scored three in the fifth and wanted to give ourselves a realistic chance at having some semblance of order in our bullpen, which we did. Again, that's what I was kind of telling Tim. They went about it a little different, went to their bullpen early, couldn't hold it. We tried to get to a certain point, gave up the runs then early, and then were able to put up four zeros. 
 We wanted Beckett to get through that fifth and set up our bullpen, and it didn't work. 

 Q. You've said that Beckett's health is not an issue, at least in terms of sending him out there with a clear conscience and that he was physically able to pitch. But how concerned are you about his general ineffectiveness in these two postseason starts going forward?
 TERRY FRANCONA: Well, you know, he made some mistakes and he paid for them. He tried to throw a fastball into Floyd and he didn't get it in; changeup wandered back over the plate to Longoria; tried to throw a fastball away to Upton, left it over the middle, and paid for all of them. 
 Saying that, when guys get hit around or don't pitch the way they're supposed to, you have a chance to lose the game. All that happened going against us early, we still had a chance to win the game, and we couldn't pull it off. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT