AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX v ANGELS
October 5, 2008
Terry Francona
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Terry Francona. 

 Q. Can you tell us about Josh Beckett? Analyze how he pitched? 
 TERRY FRANCONA: I thought they really made him work. You know, right from the very first pitch of the game he was out of the stretch. Again, it's been a couple of weeks. I don't think his command was what it can be, what it will be. I thought, again, you know, I thought our whole staff -- we seemed like we were pitching out of the stretch every single inning. We dodged a lot of bullets and couldn't in the end. 
 But he looked healthy as far as Josh went. 

 Q. You had Byrd warming up; what were your factors in bringing in Lopez?
 TERRY FRANCONA: In the last inning? 

 Q. Yes. 
 TERRY FRANCONA: Once we went to -- if we start Byrd out and come through the middle of the order with the lefties and we go to Javy and we keep that game going, we have a guy that's a situational left-hander. We've already used Cash, so that means we'll go to Byrd. Byrd's kind of like they did with Weaver; once we get to Byrd, we would have let him pitch for a while. 

 Q. Can you talk about the plays of Beckett covering first base, Hunter in the first inning and Teixeira in the fourth and just their effect on the game overall? 
 TERRY FRANCONA: Okay, I got to pause. Long time ago. The play we missed first base, that did not lead to a run. What was the other play.

 Q. The first inning with Hunter that led to their first run. 
 TERRY FRANCONA: Run me through the play again.

 Q. It was similar. Didn't get over to first base. 
 TERRY FRANCONA: No, you're talking about the ball that Pedroia caught? Hunter kind of cued it to second.

 Q. Yeah?
 TERRY FRANCONA: Boy, you saw that different than me. Pedroia just held on to it because he got a guy on the move, and I think Hunter was going to beat it. I didn't see it the way you did. 

 Q. Could you talk Lester going today against Lackey, and just talk about that match-up please? 
 TERRY FRANCONA: I think for both sides starting pitching will be at a premium. I mean, both teams, you know, it's a lot of innings. A lot of baseball from your bullpen. The kid's been good all year.

 Q. Just comment on Napoli, and the swings he made on some of those? How devastating were they? 
 TERRY FRANCONA: He hit a 3-2 breaking ball the first time which was a huge at bat which he scored two. We didn't get a fastball in far enough. He's been like that all year. He's been so dangerous. So many of his hits have been home runs. We just didn't -- neither pitch was quite where it needed to be. With his power especially in this ballpark, those were huge hits. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT