CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 24, 2019
Anne-Catherine Tanguay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How did you feel about that round today?  
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: Yeah, felt pretty good. I think my putter was a little bit colder today. I hit it really, really well, and so many times today it was landing on my numbers that I wanted to, so I was really happy about that.   
 Q.  Did you feel more comfortable today than yesterday?  
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: Yeah, I think I felt as comfortable as I was yesterday, even more. My iron shots were really, really solid, so that gave me a lot of momentum. I was just not as aggressive on my putts maybe today.   
So we'll work on that for tomorrow.   
 Q.  Is the course set up more difficult? Some of the pins on the back side looked pretty tough.  
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: They were, but it was really fair because they moved us up on some of the tees. They kept the par-3s pretty hard, and that's what it's all about. I mean, some tough, tough pin positions so maybe, yeah, there are less birdies to be made today, but we had some opportunities on the par-5s on the back nine.   
 Q.  What about the par-5s? You just one birdie on the four of them. You feel like that's some lost shots not making more birdies on the par-5s today, or were you okay with that?  
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: I felt pretty disappointed not to birdie that second par-5 on the back nine. I had a 7-iron in, so I think I went a little bit fast on my decision-making process.   
If I could do it over then maybe take my time a little bit more to look at that lie. It was a little uphill so I just came up a little short.   
Yeah, that pin of way back and it was good. You got to make it tough if they move us up.   
 Q.  What's the thought process for tomorrow? What are your goals? Also going forward for the rest of the season, do you know how many tournaments you plan to play?  
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: My goal for tomorrow I think is going to be to keep making aggressive swings at conservative targets and wait for the putts to drop. This golf course, I mean, can be pretty penalizing if you hit it in the wrong spots. So I think my game plan was really, really good in the past few days. I'm going to stick with that.   
Otherwise there are three more events after this one in the U.S. for me.   
 Q.  On the No. 7, par-5, you were in the rough on your tee shot. You took a short iron as opposed to being a little bit more aggressive. Was that to get you in a spot where you're kind of in your wheelhouse on your third shot?  
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: That's a good question. That lie was kind of nasty. I didn't really feel like I could hit hybrid out of there. I mean, I could have tried to hit a longer iron and just kind of get it close to the green, but I was just playing with my strengths.   
I knew that my wedges are pretty good. Unfortunately couldn't get it close on that one, but I was happy with 5 given that lie.   
 Q.  Same on 9. I think iron from fairway, from your tee shot. Again, getting in that kind of 60, 70 yard range?  
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: Same thing. I mean, I had 250 yards to the front of the green. I can get it within 20 yards, but, again, I'm just playing with the strengths in my game.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT