CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 22, 2019
Anne-Catherine Tanguay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Congratulations, A.C. that was a beautiful round of golf. What was the key to it?  
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: Just patience, I think. Honestly it's been a busy week, so my preparation was, I don't know -- I don't want to say less than ideal, but I just came into it and I really had low expectations.   
I built some momentum early in the round. The greens I felt like I was having a hard time like picking up the speed early on in my round.   
But then the back nine just felt like I couldn't miss with my putter, to be honest. It was really good. I was over the ball and I just kind of had this feeling it might go in, so just give to a shot.   
 Q.  Two Canadians right there at the top, you and Brooke. These organizers here are probably -- it's a good thing.  
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: Yeah, that's amazing. I was kind of watching golf a little bit. I saw it on TV this morning and saw Brooke was playing well. Just kind of laughing. Wow, Brooke loves to play well at home. Feels good to be able to put a good round together for me today.   
 Q.  Are you surprised that you played this well?  
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: I mean, to be honest, I just didn't expect anything out of it because it's been four weeks since my last competitive round. I mean, I knew I was hitting it well, but yesterday I had to -- I did some work with Tristan and we tweaked a few just like little things, and just paid off today.   
Couldn't have asked for any better.   
 Q.  Players are saying the back nine, your first nine, is the easier nine. You were 5-under on the fronts nine, your second nine. How did you manage to do that so well?  
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: I hit 18 greens today, so that really helps. (Laughter.) Not all great shots. I think I just put myself in position to at least make good pars. When it fell -- I mean, I had a bunch of maybe 20-footers, 20-, 25-footers that fell.   
To be honest, I just don't felt like I spend enough time on the golf course to really make an opinion and judgment about which side was playing better. Honestly I didn't even know coming off the green where I was going on the next hole.   
 Q.  How many practice rounds did you get in?  
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: I played in the pro-am 18 holes on Monday and nine holes yesterday in the pro-am early, at 7:00.   
 Q.  Do you think the afternoon tee times, late tee times, might have helped because of all the off-course stuff you had to the last couple days? Gave you a chance to rest a little bit this morning.  
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: Yeah, definitely. I woke up this morning and my eye was all puffy and it was weird. I called my doctor and so I was a little worried there.   
But it was good to get some extra rest. Yeah, I think it definitely helped.   
 Q.  Was there a reason you hadn't played for four weeks?  
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: I didn't qualify to play the majors, and when the tour played the Scottish I just kind of had some back problems a month ago, and so I just felt like staying home and getting some treatment and getting ready to play the last four events in the U.S.   
I thought that was my best bet. That's what I did. I wanted to be in great shape to be here.   
 Q.  What were the crowds like, especially on the front nine?  
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: Good question. I didn't really notice the crowds. I know I had some family and friends that were out here today and it felt great. I could hear my brother just like take my mom's spot. He likes to yell really loud on the golf course, so it was awesome. I really felt the love, and I know the last few holes we definitely picked up a few spectators.   
 Q.  What's the key to keep this going tomorrow?  
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: I think it's going to be stay aggressive for me. I'm going to be nervous and I know that it's not going to be easy. I just want to keep making aggressive swings and give myself some chances. That's it.   
 Q.  Amy Olson had a great round going, too. Did that help that another player in your group was playing so well?  
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: It really did. I played with Amy and Elizabeth, and they're both friends of mine. It was good momentum going into this week to have this group, and Amy just had a really good start.   
I don't know. I just kind of feed off her. She can't joking and was like, You and me, best ball. It would've been a great round we could have put together.   
 Q.  Seemed to have a lot of supporters from Quebec. What does that say about the sport in the province of Québec?  
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: Canadians love golf, and Québecers as well. I mean, we had so many people. I was shocked address at how many people came up to me today and spoke French. I thought it was amazing.   
People love golf. I seen some little junior girls as well. I'm really happy they came out. I hope we'll have more this weekend.   
 Q.  When you spoke to your doctor about the puffy eye situation, what did he say?  
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: He said, I'm glad you called me. You did the right thing. He just said to take allergy medicine and put ice on it. If it was going to get red and sticky to just call him again tonight and he was going to write me a prescription.   
I think it didn't even cross my mind today so it's fine now of. I haven't seen my face, but...   
 Q.  You look fine. What's does it say about the state of the game in Canada that two Canadians are in the top 3 right now?  
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: It's so amazing. We've had really great programs with Golf Canada. I've been lucky enough to be part of the (indiscernible) team, the amateur team, and now the young girl's squad. They have such a solid program. We had the coaches out here, Tristan was out here this week, and he really helped yesterday kind of tweak some things on my swing.   
It was really a long day, to be honest. I didn't really feel like working with him on the range, but kind of pushed through it and I'm happy for Brooke and I'm cheering for her every single week.   
 Q.  How big a deal was it dropping the putt on your 10th hole? Looked like it was an uphiller about 30 feet; dropped it for birdie. Did that get you going?  
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: You know, I just -- I wasn't trying to hole it or anything. I was just trying to make pars out there. It's cool. I had so much momentum when I made birdie on that par-3, so...   
 Q.  Would've been the second hole, I guess, over the water?  
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: No, no. On the back nine. It would've been like 16, my 7th hole maybe. I was over the ball and I was just laughing because I just had this feeling that I was going to hole it again.   
I saw it go straight in the middle. I was really laughing really hard because I thought it was just hilarious that everything literally was going in.   
 Q.  Were you disappointed about the 18th where you ball maybe checked up quicker than you thought on the approach there? Did it?  
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: I was happy with my shot because I hit it exactly the way I wanted to hit it. Obviously you can't -- I was in the uphill lie and just kind of landed in the uphill as well. I was hoping it would released a few more yards there, but I was still really happy with that shot.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT