CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 21, 2019
Anne-Catherine Tanguay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: All right, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. We're here with another one of our Canadian golfers, Anne-Catherine Tanguay. Very happy to have you with us.   
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: Thank you.   
THE MODERATOR: Out bright and early this morning. 7:00 a.m., first tee time off. How did it look out there?   
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: It looks fantastic. The course is in amazing shape. I've heard so many good things about Magna, but honestly, just exceeded all expectations that I had for this place.   
THE MODERATOR: What are some of your favorite spots out there on the golf course? I'm guessing you've seen all 18 at this point. Some you particularly like or maybe a turning point for the tournament.   
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: Middle of the fairway. No, it's really good. It's a golf course where if you take more aggressive lines off the tee it can pay off.   
I'm a pretty good driver of the ball I want to think. I think it'll be good. I think there are plenty of birdies out there. Few par-5s we can get close to it and tougher par-3s, so maybe be conservative and aggressive in the right places.   
But I think this golf course really suits my game, and fits my eye.   
THE MODERATOR: You're one of 15 Canadian players in the field. A good number of Québec players as well, including your sister, Valerie. It's got to be a wonderful experience for you to get out and experience this together.   
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: I do have a sister, but it's not Valerie.   
THE MODERATOR: What?   
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: She is not my sister, but she's like my sister I want to say.   
THE MODERATOR: You have a sister, don't you?   
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: I do.   
THE MODERATOR: What's her name?   
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: Marie-Chantal. She doesn't play golf. No, it's a common mistake.   
THE MODERATOR: And I've just made it. On Facebook live. Hi, everyone.   
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: She's also from Quebec and we went to the same school, University of Oklahoma.   
THE MODERATOR: Okay. I'm not the only one then.   
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: She feels like my little sister, and I'm really happy she's here this week. I kind of took her under my wing, and even my caddie, J.H., has been helping her out too a lot on the course. So I'm so happy for her.   
It's five Quebecers this week on the field, so I think that's a record, which is amazing. We can tell. I mean, the whole team squad, and I was among these girls that played there few short years ago.   
So I think it's great for us to be able to give back and support them in whatever we can.   
THE MODERATOR: So you have four little sisters here, not just one that's not actually your sister.   
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: Exactly.   
THE MODERATOR: We'll open it up for questions. Raise your hand.   
 Q.  Wondering if you could characterize your season for me this year. Seems like you've had some really good scores. Sometimes just a matter of putting all the rounds together. Would you say that's fair to say?  
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: Yeah, I had a really good start of the season and made a lot of cuts this year. I'm getting more comfortable in my environment. I think for me it has been a little challenge to play better on the weekends and go low.   
I think I was just kind of getting maybe a little bit more nervous and experiencing new emotions, but I think it's part of the learning process as well. I kind of dealt with a bit of a back injury in early this summer, so I kind of had to deal with that.   
But I feel better now. I didn't play in Europe and kind of took a few weeks to recover. Worked with my physio at home and I'm feeling so much better this week in the last stretch that's coming.   
 Q.  Was it mostly physio that you took, not surgery or anything?  
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: No, no. It was some physio work. It's a recurring injury, lower back, that I've had in the past few years. So we do know how to treat it. It's hard to prevent it. It happens with a lot of golf, traveling, and less conditioning I want to say in the gym.   
So I get really, really strong in the off-season, and as the season goes we play so much golf, and I feel like my body just kind of breaks down a little bit as we go.   
 Q.  Not from too much pickleball, is it?  
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: No, no, no. We take it easy at pickleball.   
 Q.  So are you working on anything particularly now as far as your game goes?  
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: I think I've just been working on getting my game back in shape really. I did take a little bit of time off golf because I think my body needed it. It was really good for my head as well. I've just been trying to have some fun as well. Played with friends on some money games and I went back and played my courses, golf courses where I grew up.   
So it was more about just finding that love of the game again and playing a lot honestly. I think when we're this far in the season I feel like I like to practice a little less and play more, so it's just been to get my game back in shape.   
 Q.  Schedule from here on in?  
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: Yeah. We have I guess three more events, with this one it's four, for the rest of the year in the U.S.   
 Q.  You mentioned the 15 Canadians in the field. How big a sense of community is there among those 15 Canadians?  
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: It's huge. We're really, really tight. I mean, to have five Canadians full time on the LPGA this year, it was big. I mean, we play our practice rounds together; we go out to dinner. We really try to support each other in every way we can.   
You know, Jaclyn Lee being here this week and she's injured, so I just had a conversation with her about that injury. We're trying to support her and be there for her. It's just been really, really cool having some role models as well. Like I try to be a role model for the younger girls, but I've had -- I was fortunate to have a Alena that was there and Lorie Kane that came before me and did that for me.   
So I'm happy to do it too for the younger girls.   
 Q.  You mentioned the 5 Québec players. How important is it for golf in your home province to have such a strong showing?  
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: It's really cool. I think that women's golf in general and the junior girls is growing as well. When I was home I had the chance to do a day with a program it's called, Go Les Filles. It was really cool. We had maybe, I don't know, like 20 junior girls that were the elite golfers. I could meet them and spends the day with them.   
I remember back when I was a junior there really that many girls, so I think it's growing. I know that Brooke, too, there is a lot of young girls that aspire to be just like her. So I think she's also helping to grow Canadian golf and have like more young girls involved in the game.   
 Q.  I have two questions. First one is related to that one. So five golfers in the tournament from Quebec. When you were growing up, who was your role model or someone who helped you along the way in the golf world?  
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: I really had Sara-Maude Juneau. I want to say she was a few years older and she really helped me. She went the professional way maybe I want to say two, three years before me. When I got on the Symetra Tour she was there for me and gave me advice. Always have your own car and here you should stay there; kind of do that, like half housing, half hotel.   
So she was for me like my mentor really on tour. I think that Sara-Maude Juneau and I were sort of in the same years as well, so it was cool because we competed together in junior golf. I competed with Brittany Henderson. Brooke was really, really small when we were playing.   
 Q.  Fifth CP Canadian Women's Open; is that right?  
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: That sounds right.   
 Q.  First one was 2013 in Edmonton. What do you remember about that? You didn't make the cut that year. Must have been a great experience. What do you remember?  
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: It was hilarious, because it was my first LPGA event ever played and I wasn't with the Canadian team at that time. It was actually JH's brother that was on my bag and he had not ever done an LPGA event before either. We were completely lost. You know, like first time I didn't know I could park in the players' parking. He dropped me off at the course and then he went to park like in the caddie parking.   
Then I tried to get into the clubhouse and they wouldn't let me in. Well, I have to go register to get my credentials. They wouldn't let me in. I was kind of stuck outside. One of the girls was just like, She's with me. Let her in. So it was very overwhelming, but such an amazing experience.   
We met some people over there in Edmonton that still show up and come to every Canadian Open that we have. So I really cherish a lot of really great memories from that week, even though we were a little bit lost.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT