HUGEL-AIR PREMIA LA OPEN
April 25, 2019
Anne-Catherine Tanguay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A.C., just talk about perfect conditions out there today.  What confidence does that give you on the first tee when it's perfect scoring conditions?
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: Yeah, it was so nice out there.  I mean, perfect weather, but also perfect course conditions.  The greens were rolling really, really well.  I men, the fairways, everything is so pristine about this course.
To me it's a lot of fun to go out and play in these conditions.
Q. What was the most fun part?
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: The most fun part I think I just kept having fun all day.  It's hard to pick one shot or like one moment, yeah.  (Laughter.)
Q. It's also fun to post a bogey-free 4-under round.  What was the key to your consistency today?
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: I think it was a lot -- my tee shots were really good, so just putting myself in good positions.  I had a lot of wedges in.  I've been working on my wedges in the past few weeks, so I think it was really the perfect conditions, perfect setup for me to shine.
I love these greens, too.  For me, poana rolls really well.  I'm used to that type of grass.  I just love the greens out here.
Q. How did that work on your wedges translate out there today?
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: Yeah, I've been working on my distances a lot so I've mastered -- not mastered -- my full distances, but I'm more comfortable, I would say.  So I was working on these in-between numbers, and it was kind of funny today because my caddie and I were like, Wow, what a great number.  Like all day we just had these great numbers.
He's like, Well, that's what happens when you work at it.  It was a lot of fun.
Q. What are you hoping to take away from this round for the rest of the tournament?
ANNE-CATHERINE TANGUAY: Just my attitude.  Just stay calm.  Just excited to be playing, I think.  I made some good par saves I think, too, probably like ten-footers for par.
So I think I'm just going to try to stay cool and just keep building on my confidence from there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT