ROLAND GARROS
May 25, 2016
Shelby Rogers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. ROGERS/E. Vesnina   
6-4, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Can you talk a little bit about the match today and how it feels to go through.  
SHELBY ROGERS: Yeah, I'm very happy.  Happy with the way I played.  I was aggressive.  I took some chances.  Served really well today, especially when it counted, serving out the match.   
Yeah, I'm super excited.  Third round here for the first time.   
 Q.  What's the best result you have had at slam?  
SHELBY ROGERS: Third round, US Open last year.   
 Q.  And you're a patriotic woman from what I can tell.  What was it like to go to the White House and be with President Obama, be arm in arm with him so to speak.  What was that like?  
SHELBY ROGERS: Yeah, it was pretty incredible.  They emailed me and asked me if I wanted to go.  I said, That's a no-brainer; absolutely.  Sloane was there.  We were surrounded by a lot of cool people.  The USTA did a phenomenal job that day and it was really fun to hit with the kids and obviously meet the president.  But there was a greater goal that day, working with the kids, and it was really cool.   
 Q.  Did the president say anything that day or did he have some chatter?  
SHELBY ROGERS: Yeah, he was very charismatic.  Absolutely.  He's met a few people in his day.  You know, Nice to meet you; great job with everything you've done.  Stuff like that.  He's really good at tennis as well from what I saw.   
 Q.  He played in what Hawaii as a youth.  
SHELBY ROGERS: Yeah, he had good footwork as well.   
 Q.  You tweeted out on interesting comment where you said the best things in life aren't things.  What are your thoughts on that?  
SHELBY ROGERS: Yeah, absolutely.  It's really easy to get caught up in the media, the fans, the everyday stuff like that.  You have to focus on your character and becoming a good person.  That sort of stuff.  That's always been really important to me.   
Being close with my family, keeping your friends close, that stuff is what really matters.  The success comes if you work hard and do all the right things, but you have to enjoy it along the way.   
People remind me all the time to not kind of overlook the important things.   
 Q.  We know that being out on the tour as a WTA pro is a tough thing.  A lot of tests.  Talk about how being a professional athlete in an individual international sport, lots of defeats, how that helps you build your character, build your personality, helps you grow.  Just talk about that.  
SHELBY ROGERS: Sure.  Yeah, I mean, we're the only ones out there.  It's all us out there.  It's one-on-one.  We can't tag anyone or call anyone out to help us.  It's definitely a huge mental game, and you have to really believe in yourself and be a confident person and be really confident in what you're doing as far as your game goes, anything.   
Just be very confident, because you're the only one out there.  I think that that's a big part of character, just knowing who you are and being confident in that person and being happy with it.   
 Q.  How do you approach the future?  Do you think, Wow, I want to win slam?  Be No. 1?  Is it more just step by step or a bit of both?  
SHELBY ROGERS: A bit of both for sure.  I mean, it's definitely a process-oriented mindset.  Nothing can happen overnight.  You can have a good week, sure, but it's doing the little things right that will pay off in the long run and make me that consistent player that can do well week in and week out.   
So take care of the details and the success will come.   
 Q.  At the end of the day, what is the thing that you really like the most about being a touring pro?  What gets you excited?  
SHELBY ROGERS: The traveling is great.  The amazing cities we go to, it's really irreplaceable.  The people we meet, the sights we see.  It's really amazing.   
 Q.  The venue that the really, really like that's the No. 1 on your list?  
SHELBY ROGERS: Charleston.  Best tournament on tour.  (Laughter.)   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT