ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 4, 2014
Shelby Rogers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. ROGERS/A. Tomljanovic
  6‑4, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Can you describe the type of game you had today?   Are you satisfied with the way you played?
SHELBY ROGERS:   Yeah, it was a good match.   We're pretty good friends, so that's always tough playing someone you know really well. 
She's a big hitter.   She has a lot of weapons.   So I knew it was going to be tough today. 
It was windy and probably not the prettiest conditions for tennis, but I'm just happy I got the win. 

Q.   Would you say you're playing your best tennis right now in your career?
SHELBY ROGERS:   Yes, I would say that.   I mean, every match isn't pretty.   You know, I've had some I guess ugly wins, I guess you could say.   But I feel really confident on court, moving well. 
I'm happy.   I'm enjoying everything.   I think it's definitely a high point in my career. 

Q.   Has there been anything special you've been doing for the rise in your level?
SHELBY ROGERS:   Nothing too different.   I really worked on the mental side of my tennis game, kind of staying more calm on court.   You know, like I said, being happy and kind of enjoying everything.   Paying attention to the little details. 
You know, I've been injury‑free, as well, which helps.   I can actually go play.   That's a big part of competing.   I think those things kind of all work together and have worked in my favor thankfully. 

Q.   Obviously you're going to play Eugenie Bouchard next.   What is your feeling on playing the hometown favorite?
SHELBY ROGERS:   Yeah, I think it will be fun.   Obviously the crowd, you know, is going to be for her, and I'm the underdog.   I think it's kind of a fun story. 
There's no pressure.   I'm just going to go out, play my game, do my best, try to enjoy the moment as much as I can. 

Q.   You've played against her before, but it was in 2011.   Do you remember anything about that?
SHELBY ROGERS:   Yeah, that was a while ago, huh?   I think a challenger in Alabama or something.   Very small town. 
Obviously both of us are very different players now, very different people.   We've had a lot more experiences.   We've come a long way.   I think basing anything off that match is kind of irrelevant, you know, so... 
Yeah, I'm just going to treat it like any other match, obviously be prepared for the crowd, all the hype.   Probably a night match, so... 
Like I said, just another experience to put in my book. 

Q.   When you see her now, do you see a player your age or a top 10 player you have to really fear?
SHELBY ROGERS:   I wouldn't say 'fear'.   I would say 'respect' is probably a better word.   She's done incredible things this year.   She's been on fire, semis of all the slams. 
We've practiced together quite a bit.   She was in South Florida where I trained.   We know each other fairly well. 
I mean, she is another young competitor like me.   Obviously, she's had a few more wins.   But hopefully I can hold my own.   We'll see. 

Q.   What's the key to beating her?
SHELBY ROGERS:   I think sticking to my game, you know, and just focusing on what I need to do, trying not to get too overwhelmed.   It's a big moment for me.   Definitely a top point in my career. 
Just enjoying it and staying calm. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT