BNP PARIBAS FED CUP: USA VS CZECH REPUBLIC
April 22, 2017
Kathy Rinaldi
Shelby Rogers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. SINIAKOVA/S. Rogers
6-3, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: We'll take questions for Kathy and Shelby.
Q. Kathy, just an evaluation on today.  Obviously you would prefer it to be 2-0.  And a look at tomorrow.
CAPTAIN RINALDI: Yeah, I think it was a great day.  Obviously anybody would want to be up 2-0.
I can't ask for anything more than what my players did.  They competed hard.  They fought all the way to the end.  Coco got us off to a great start.  Shelby fought her way back into that match.  It was really the difference of a few points here and there that could have put us up 2-0.
I'm super proud of both players.  They competed hard, showed a lot of spirit out there.  I think we're going to get ready for tomorrow, have a good evening, and be ready to go.
Q. Shelby, a bit of a slow start.  Was that what was the problem that set the tone for the match for you?  How did you see it?
SHELBY ROGERS: I mean, now I think I understand why it's so difficult to win your debut Fed Cup match.  It's definitely a different atmosphere.
But I think I struggled with my serve a little bit today, a little bit with the backhand, some things.  But she played very well.  She didn't miss any balls, didn't give me any free points.
I think, you know, I tried to work my way back into the first set, fighting for every point.  Was almost there, had a couple break chances.  I just want to try to look at the few positives I had from today and try to carry that forward.
Q. Kathy, best-of-three now.  Who is the favorite going into day two?
CAPTAIN RINALDI: The favorite team?
Q. Yes.
CAPTAIN RINALDI: Well, hopefully us.  That's the way we're going to look at it anyway.  We're in it to win it.
They have a very strong team.  So do I.  We're going to go out there, we're going to compete.  We have no excuses.  We're just going to lay it out there.
The girls did a great job doing that today, competing all the way to the end.  That's exactly what we're going to do tomorrow.
Q. With the two reverse singles tomorrow, what are your girls going to need to do to come out on top?
CAPTAIN RINALDI: Again, we have a lot of respect for them.  We're not underestimating their team at all.  We're going to compete.
I think Coco, again, if she can come out and play well.  She played super tennis today.  Just play within themselves.  You know, that's what we're going to try and do.
We have Bethanie for doubles, as well, so...
Q. Kathy, we saw what the atmosphere was like out there today.  A lot of pageantry, patriotism.  What will day two be like?
CAPTAIN RINALDI: Well, I hope it's a lot like today.  It was unbelievable for the players.  I think it was incredible.  To sit there, you know, they were great matches, great atmosphere.  Everybody loves to play here at home and have that support.  We certainly felt it today.
We're hoping to feel it again tomorrow.  We're hoping that that's going to push us through.  We really feed off that.  We're going to need that tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT