ATP CUP
January 10, 2020
Pablo Carreno Busta
Rafael Nadal
Francisco Roig
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BUSTA-NADAL/Gille-Vliegen
6-7, 7-5, 10-7
Team Spain - 2
Team Belgium - 1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Rafa, a tough night tonight but another big challenge Saturday night with the Australians. Take us through your thoughts on that and playing Alex, who I guess is in some ways a similar player to David.
RAFAEL NADAL: I don't see like this, but gonna be a big challenge too. He's a great player. Young with a lot of energy. And of course with much more rest than all of us.
Q. Rafa, there was a lot of sweat out there. Did the humidity really affect you?
RAFAEL NADAL: I really don't understand why they don't put the ventilator in the first set, honestly. I cannot understand this. Yeah, is not an excuse at all.
David played a great match. Better than me. I was suffering a lot physically today. Was big humidity. But at the same time is fair to say that we are in the worst position to play the final eight, because we came from Perth. That's these three hours' time changing, different weather conditions, playing against a team that have been here for the last ten days, and we are the only team coming from Perth and playing until the last day of Perth and arriving here during the evening with jet lag, with everything.
And today we had very heavy conditions out there, so probably we had the worst situation possible to play this tie. We are super happy that finally we find a way to be in that semifinals, and tomorrow is another day that we really hope that we're going to sleep well and try to be ready for the action.
Q. What did you guys think about David's performance, and then the doubles, just the environment? Your thoughts overall?
RAFAEL NADAL: Well, he played very well, honestly. He played a great level of tennis. Doing a lot of things well. And at the same time for me was a little bit under energy, because was sweating a lot and I lost my energy in the first set.
I had big chances with 4-3, Love-40. But then he played well. Nothing to say. Everybody knows how good is David, and at the same time he's a great guy so happy for him at some point.
And that's it. Doubles have been very tough, because we were not able to have break chances during the whole match. We finally had in the last moment, and we found a way.
So happy with the victory. Is still life, and tomorrow is another chance.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT