ATP CUP
January 8, 2020
Rafael Nadal
Feliciano Lopez
Albert Ramos-Vinolas
Pablo Carreno Busta
Roberto Bautista Agut
Francisco Roig
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
NADAL, CARRENO/Mclachlan, Soeda   
7-6, 4-6, 10-6   
Spain - 3   
Japan - 0   
 Q.  Rafa, well played this afternoon. What was the key sort of passages of play for you in the match to beat Yoshi?  
RAFAEL NADAL: Well, it was a very tough one and we played under heavy conditions today, because for me it was the first day that I played under the sun, every day was my sessions. So it was the first experience with the hit here in Australia, and so it has been tough for moments but I resist. I resisted. It was important the first set, and then in the second I had some tough moments but at the same time I was able to manage well to have the break at the right moment, so happy for the victory. I played against a player that he started the season on fire winning two great matches against two very good opponents and with very comfortable results. So it's a positive victory for me and it's an important victory for the team. We go on, we go to Sydney straight with the confidence that we didn't lose a match yet.   
 Q.  What would you say has been your favorite memory of being in Perth for the first time?  
RAFAEL NADAL: Well, outside of court will be our visit to Rottnest Island. And the people have been very, very friendly with all of us. They treat us like if we are one Australian more. So we are very, very happy and we can't thank enough the hospitality that we received here.   
 Q.  How would you summarize your play across the three matches? Are there areas you think you need to sharpen up on?  
RAFAEL NADAL: I think it's been a positive week for me personally, well, for the team, of course, but I cannot talk for the others. But for me personally, yes, it's been a very positive week. Winning three matches against three tough opponents. That's a good way to start the season, without losing a set yet. Now we go to Sydney, it's the quarterfinals, it's going to be another tough opponents for all of us there. And I really believe that we need to keep working well, but I really hope to be ready to increase the level.   
 Q.  I know the focus is on this tournament, but the Australian Open shapes as a pretty historical potential tournament with Serena chasing Margaret Court's record and yourself with Roger's landmark. Is that something at all you've thought about, what it could mean to the sport and even your own legacy?  
RAFAEL NADAL: It's obvious that not, no. I just did my way all my life. And the life bring me to that position today that I, honestly, don't think much. I just try to keep doing my way and that's what worked well during all my life and all my tennis career. My only goal is to keep playing good tennis, keep enjoying this sport, being happy. And if that happens and I stay healthy, the goal is to keep producing chances in the events that I'm going to play. And let's be focused on the ATP Cup now, and then we're going to have a week to prepare Melbourne and that's it.   
 Q.  A general question to the team as a whole. How much confidence do you get going to Sydney knowing you're unbeaten so far.  
FRANCISCO ROIG: Well, I think we had three days of competition. We had also few days of practice. We didn't lose a match. So the confidence is very good confidence. The level, I mean, the best thing we can do is to get used as soon as possible to the conditions of Sydney and right there make a nice rest and a little practice in the afternoon and be ready for the next opening that we still don't know which one we're going to be.   
 Q.  What did you think about Nishioka?  
RAFAEL NADAL: Oh, he's a great player with a lot of talent. He was very unlucky two years ago with his tough injury. I think it was at Indian Wells or just after that. He was playing very well in that moment and he has a lot of talent, a lot of -- he really does a lot of very difficult things very easy. So he's able to manage very well the timing on the point. And his movements are one of the best on tour. So, yeah, he started the season very well, happy to see him back at this very, very high level after tough injuries. I'm happy for him, wishing him all the very best.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT