ROLAND GARROS
May 31, 2019
Pablo Carreno Busta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
B. PAIRE/P. Carreno Busta   
6-2, 4-6, 7-6 [Ret.]   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Spanish.   
 Q.  What happened?  Why did you retire from the tournament?  
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA: Well, in the first point of the tiebreak, I felt pinching in my adductor, and, well, I couldn't continue.  I spoke to the physiotherapist, and I decided to retire because I tried the tiebreak, but when I was running to the right it hurt.   
 Q.  Do you know how much you are hurt?  
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA: No, we don't know.  We'll see if it's ruptured or not.  We're going to examine it, and I hope it's not too serious.   
 Q.  Is it the same as in the US Open?  
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA: I believe that in the US Open it was the left adductor, not the right one.  But I don't remember exactly.   
 Q.  Are you disappointed?  How do you feel?  
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA: I'm a bit sad, because I was playing well for the last matches.  It was a difficult match, this one, but a pleasant one, rather at a par.   
Benoit has been playing well this year.  Last week he won in Lyon, he won in Marrakech.  He has a good pace.   
It was a difficult match for me.  In the beginning I felt uneasy because of his game, because his tennis makes you feel uneasy.  But then progressively I managed to get the second set.  Third one I had a possibility to break, and I didn't do it.  And then came the tiebreak.   
 Q.  What can you tell us about Benoit's level of tennis?  He seems strong this year.  
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA: Yes, he's playing very well.  He's probably more consistent, which is something that was missing at times.  He's playing complex matches.   
The other day he ended up winning the fifth set even though he had been broken.  I believe he's been maintaining the same intensity against me throughout the match.  So you can see he just won two tournaments this year.  He won good matches.  He's in the fourth round of Roland Garros, which is not easy, so he's doing well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT