AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2019
Pablo Carreno Busta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. NISHIKORI/P. Carreno Busta   
6-7, 4-6, 7-6, 6-4, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  It was obviously an incredibly long match and an emotional one.  Can you just tell us in your words what you felt about what happened in the tiebreak.  
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA: Obviously I'm very sad, no, because after five hours fighting, after five hours' match, the way that I leave from the court wasn't correct, and I'm so sorry, because that's not mine.   
But I think that the referee missed -- the umpire who is near the court missed, and, well, I try to leave faster as possible when I lost that last point, because I know that in any moment I lost the head.   
But it's tough, no, to me to leave Australian Open like this, because I think that I played really good.  I play an unbelievable match.  Also Kei, he play really good, and that's sad to leave like this.   
 Q.  Have you had a chance to have a look at a replay of that point?  What do you think about it once you have seen the replay?  
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA: I don't need to watch the repeat, the replay of the point, because I know clearly that the line umpire calls out.  Then Nishikori make a winner.  Obviously the point for Nishikori was so we see.  But sometimes the line umpires make mistakes, and that's the game, no?   
You have Hawk-Eyes.  I call the Hawk-Eye.  The Hawk-Eye says the ball was good.  And the umpire, I don't know why, but he tried to, I don't know -- I don't know why, but he say that the point for Nishikori.  If he thinks that the point is for Nishikori, why I can call the Hawk-Eye, you know?  If I call the Hawk-Eye and the ball is out, I lost the Hawk-Eye.  If I call the Hawk-Eye and the ball is in, I lost the point.  I don't understand.   
 Q.  Replay the point?  
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA: Of course.  I know that's bad luck for him in this case, because he has easy shot, but if the umpire did a mistake, the point, you have to repeat it.   
 Q.  Can you describe what was in your mind just after the second set.  
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA: After second set?  I know that Kei is a great player, and he's fighting all the time.  So when I won the second set, I know that I need to continue playing my best tennis if I would like to win the match.   
I didn't play bad the third and the fourth set, but Kei plays good also.  In the first and the second set, it was so close, the scores, and also in the third and fourth.   
You know, is very close match, and I think that I play probably one of the best matches of my career.  Now I'm very, very sad because I leave from the court like this, and I don't know if I -- sorry.  I need to calm and tomorrow we'll see.   
 Q.  Do you feel like that point might not have cost you the match?  Do you think it must have been hard to refocus?  
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA: Of course is tough to be focused after this point, but I try to do it, no?  Well, the next points, I miss a return just like centimeters.  Then Kei plays two good points with my serve.  I also miss from four centimeters a forehand, and, well, he made ace for finish the match.   
He plays good in this moment.  Maybe I distract a little bit, but I just try to continue doing my best.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT