ROLAND GARROS
June 1, 2018
Pablo Carreno Busta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. CECCHINATO/P. Carreno Busta   
2-6, 7-6, 6-3, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.   
 Q.  Can you explain to yourself the fall down at the last set?  Did you expect it?  Were you tired?  Surprised of your fall down in the last set?  
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA: Well, I think it was a tough match today.  You know, at the beginning of the match, I was playing good, playing aggressive.   
Maybe he miss some easy balls, and I could win the first set easy.  But after that, he start to play better.   
The conditions start to -- it was tougher for me with the rain.  And the ball was very heavy, and it was tough for me.   
But he start to play unbelievable and no mistakes, serving really good.  And I think that in the fourth set he continued playing very good.  I tried, but, you know, sometimes you try it and you cannot find a way.   
Of course, I think that it was not my best set, no?  But I think that he played really good.   
And while I have chances to win some more games, but finally it was 6-1.  And I'm not happy for the fourth set, but I need to improve for the next one.   
 Q.  I heard your last words.  Are you surprised that a player that until this year never won anything, one a tournament, suddenly in the tournament is doing well, is playing so well, as you just said.  Did you expect something like that?  Did you know him before or not?  
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA: Of course I know him before.  Cecchinato is not a bad player.  He won some Challengers and Futures.  He's growing up.  And this year, I think that it's the best year of his career.   
He's playing very good with a lot of confidence.  He won his first ATP title this year.   
And, well, if he's in the third round, now in the fourth round of Roland Garros, it's because he's playing good.   
It was a tough match today, I told before.  And I was favorite for the match.  But, you know, in the tennis, in every sport, you never know.   
You have to play all the matches, and you have to play every points because everybody can win.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT