NITTO ATP FINALS
November 17, 2017
Pablo Carreno Busta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








G. DIMITROV/P. Carreno Busta
6-1, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Are you feeling okay after your fall?
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA: Yeah, I feel little bit pain.  I think it's not the problem because I finish my season now, so I have time to rest.
Q. Your season has been pretty good on the whole.
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA: Yeah, of course.  I think it was the best season of my career.  I am very, very happy because I finish No. 10.  And the goal for this year was to be in the top 20, so I think I complete my goals.  I think that I improve a lot this year, playing more aggressive than last year, playing better, believing more in myself.
I think I'm best player than last year.  Now thinking about the next season, to try to improve more and try to be better.
Q. You said your goals this season were to be in the top 20.  Have you set any goals for next season?
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA: I don't speak with my coach yet, but probably the goal for the next season will be to be next to top 10 probably.
Q. Being an alternate, this was a new experience for you.  How do you describe the sensation?  How do you prepare not being sure you will play or not?
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA: Yeah, is tough because last week during Paris I was at home, not on holidays, but waiting for the results, you know.  I don't know if I finish my season or if I have to play here.  Finally I was first alternate.
We come here to start to prepare the pre-season.  We didn't know if Rafa was ready to play or not, but finally he plays.  When he play first match, we say, Okay, probably we don't play this year.  But finally we play.
Well, is not the best way to play, of course.  But when you have this opportunity, you have to try to do your best.  Two days ago, Wednesday against Dominic, was a really good match.  Today maybe I was a little bit tired, and of course Grigor is playing unbelievable.  On Wednesday he beat Goffin also easy.  Well done for him and good luck in semifinals.
Q. How do you see Rafa defending next year with Djokovic and Murray coming back?
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA: And me, no (smiling)?
Q. Of course.
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA: No, Rafa is a really great player.  He's one of the best players in the world.  He can do everything, no?  You never know.  If physically he's at hundred percent, he can finish the season again No. 1.
Q. I was looking to the books and I remember in 2014 Roger Federer beating 6-1, 6-0 Murray, so it can happen what happened to you, to the best in the world.
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA: Yes, of course.  I lost today 6-1, 6-1.  I'm not very happy.  Is not the best result that you dream for finish the season.  But Grigor is playing really good.  He's with a lot of confidence.  In this match he was qualify for semifinals, like number one of the group.  He was loose.  He did his best.
In this surface, I think that he plays better than me.  His serve is better.  I need to improve it.  But I play against Grigor this year in Roland Garros on clay, and I won.  Of course I not happy because I lost 6-1, 6-1, but is one more match.
Q. Looking ahead to 2018, what are your plans for the off-season?
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA: Well, now I will rest three, four days, then I will come back to Barcelona to start to do fitness with my fitness coach.  Probably in two weeks we will start with tennis and fitness four, five more weeks.  I will start on the exhibition in Abu Dhabi.  Then I will start in Doha -  Doha, Melbourne.  We have five weeks to prepare the new season, to improve my tennis.  I have chances to be better.  I will try to do it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT