U.S. OPEN
September 8, 2017
Pablo Carreno Busta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. ANDERSON/P. Carreno Busta   
4-6, 7-5, 6-3, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Hard-fought match out there.  Incredible points.  You guys have played each other before.  Talk about the matchup today.  How well is he playing and your overall thoughts on the match.  
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA: Yeah, I think it was really good match, no?  Plays really good.  Maybe at the beginning he did a lot of mistakes, but I play aggressive, too.  So I think the first set was very good for me.   
But then he start to play more aggressive, to serve really good, and to return my serve all the time and when I dipped a little bit, he made me break.  But after that, I break back, and then with 6-5 maybe was the key of the match when I made the double fault in 30-All.   
Then in the third set, maybe I lost the way a little bit.  He start to play really good.  He playing very focused on all his serve, and his way, and, well, probably in the third set, I tried to be good.  I think I play very good again.   
He was playing with confidence, was very good, and he was more aggressive than me.  Congrats to him, because we played very good match.   
 Q.  What's your takeaway from the match?  You had some great victories.  You had gone as far as you have gone in a Grand Slam event.  So in terms of going forward, a lot of positives that you can take from this?  
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA: Of course.  I mean, I lost in the semifinals.  I think that I have to take a lot of positive things from this tournament, because I won a lot of matches.  I won a lot of points here to continue my way to the Masters.   
Well, I think I need to learn about the match today, because I can learn a lot of things.  I need to continue going up, so I will try to be focused on my game in the next tournament, be ready for this fight and continue the way.   
 Q.  Do you think Kevin has the game meeting Del Potro or Nadal?  Do you think if he plays the way he plays tonight...  
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA: Yeah, why not?  If he's in the final, he can beat everyone.  Of course if he play against Rafa, maybe Rafa will be the favorite, but if he play against Del Potro, I think both of players are be able to win the tournament.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT