ROLEX PARIS MASTERS
November 5, 2020
Pablo Carreno Busta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  P. CARRENO BUSTA/N. Gombos
 7-5, 6-2
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. You were out on the outer court today.  What was the difference in the atmosphere playing a match there compared to playing on the central court?
 PABLO CARRENO BUSTA:   Is much different.  The Court No. 1 here is much smaller.  Playing without the crowd is strange, you know.  Well, it's tough.
 If you compare both courts, probably tomorrow I will be central and will be different because I play on the first match on central so I know more or less how to play there.  But it's much different play on central court than play on Court 1.
 Looks like fast, you know, when you play on a small court.
 Q. Are you feeling any pressure at all this week?  Are you just taking it a match at a time and whatever happens happens?
 PABLO CARRENO BUSTA:   Not really.  You know, is difficult for me to be in the Masters now.  Diego has a lot of chances to be there.  He plays really good this year and also last year too.
 I'm happy, no, for him because he will be the first time on London, so happy to him.  Well, of course I will try until the end, but, you know, it not depends on me.  Depends if he win tomorrow or not, and then I have to win this tournament and also Sofia.
 It's so difficult, but, well, we'll see.
 Q. Just a general question.  What are you most thankful for this year?  It's been a difficult year.  As we wind down, what are you giving thanks for in 2020?
 PABLO CARRENO BUSTA:   Yeah, of course it was the most difficult year of career, for sure.  Not just in tennis.  Also in my life, in personal life.  All my family is fine, so that's something very important, and all the close people are fine, so I think is most important thing in this moment.
 I think that this year in tennis when we stop after two month in March was difficult for everybody, you know, but I think that I work very, very hard and very focused on things that I can improve on court.
 Well, after the four month that we were off, I think that my level improve, no?  I was playing better than before March, and I think also the feeling on court was, you know, I felt more comfortable.  I felt like when you think that you cannot play more for the year and you have the opportunity to continue playing, it's something like you need to take advantage of, no?
 Well, I think that I made a good year this year.  It was a really good year for me on court.  Well, we hope this situation will be better as soon as possible and we continue our normal life.
 Q. Do you think that in the end players will look back on this year as a blessing both for training and for sort of mental help, just the idea that you got some time off that you didn't think you'd get off?
 PABLO CARRENO BUSTA:   Yeah, it's tough, no?  We have enough time to take rest and, well, probably, I don't know in the rest of the world, but probably in Spain when I come back after this tournament or after Sofia, I was at home and probably I'm not going out because we will have lockdown again.
 We don't know.  We are just thinking in this tournament and to do it as best as possible, because we don't know something about next year or about next week, no, so to live in the present.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT