U.S. OPEN
September 3, 2017
Pablo Carreno Busta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
P. CARRENO BUSTA/D. Shapovalov   
7-6, 7-6, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How did you see the match from your side?  
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA: It's tough to describe it.  It was incredible matches.  It was the first time I played on Arthur Ashe.  I played last year the final in doubles, but in singles this is my first time there.   
Is incredible (smiling).  The people was supporting all the time.  There is a lot of noise, and you think the people is behind you, but I just tried to be focused on the match.  And then at the beginning I was a little bit scared, maybe a little bit nervous.   
But after, when he broke me, I talk to my coach.  I don't know if he heard me, because there was a lot of noise.  But I told to him that I can win the match, but I need to be very aggressive because he plays really good.   
And I just try to do it.  I continue fighting all the times with 5-2 in the first set, with 6-5, 15-40 in the first set.   
And then in the tiebreaks, I just play perfect.  I played very aggressive.  I served really good.  It was very tough, because three hours, three sets, three tiebreaks, but of course it was an amazing victory for me.  Now I'm in quarterfinals again of a Grand Slam, first time here in US Open, and will try to continue.   
 Q.  For people who are just getting to learn about your game, how would you describe the way you play and your approach to the game in general?  
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA: You saw the match, right (smiling)?  It's difficult to say, but I just tried to play aggressive.  I know playing against players, against Shapovalov, if you don't play aggressive, they beat you because they serve really good, they are very aggressive with their forehand, they play without the pressure, no?   
He's 18 years old.  He's very young.  He will be, for sure, one of the best players in the future.  I think I am improving my serve and it's very important to me, because when I play with the first serve, I play more aggressive, and then I just try to fight all the time, to fight all the points and try to be positive.   
 Q.  What do you think the biggest reasons are for your success?  
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA: The biggest reasons?  Because I believe in myself.  I believe more than the last years.  I know that I can do it.  I have more experience, and I think that I can continue growing up.   
 Q.  You're the highest seed in your half of the draw.  Big opportunity for a lot of players.  Are you dreaming of reaching the final maybe?  
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA: I think is anecdotic, you know.  All the players in this part of the draw are very, very good players.  I play now against Pouille or Schwartzman.  Pouille is a top-20 player.  Schwartzman is playing really good and with a lot of confidence.   
So the next match will be really difficult, too.  I don't know the next round.  I just think about the quarterfinals.   
 Q.  You haven't dropped a set yet.  Is it hard to play those players you maybe haven't seen that much or know that much about?  
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA: When I watch the draw, I never imagine that I will play against four qualifiers because they are unseeded and they lost against a qualifier.  I think maybe this qually in this year was the most tough, the tougher qually ever.   
Of course Shapovalov is not a qually, a normal qualifier.  His level is better than a qualifier level.  But maybe the first two rounds that I play against two qualifiers, it was good for me because I get rhythm, I play very good.  They give me the confidence that I trying to do on court now.   
 Q.  How did the court compare to the outside courts in speed and conditions?  
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA: I think the speed is similar but is so different play in Arthur Ashe and play outside.  The people, you heard the people near.  You heard a lot of noise in this court, and it's something incredible.  Playing outside, of course, there are a lot of people, too, but is so different.   
 Q.  Did anything surprise you?  Or what really impressed you about Denis?  
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA: Yeah, maybe I never heard him until this month.  In Montreal I watch him playing against Rafa, and he made unbelievable match.  He won really good matches too, not just against Rafa.  And in this tournament, he beat Tsonga and other good players.   
So he maybe is on fire, no?  He's playing with a lot of confidence and he's very young, so in the future, he will be one of the best.   
 Q.  What have you learned from watching Rafa over the years?  
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA: You know, Rafa is one of the best tennis players ever and maybe the best playing on clay courts, and when you are lucky and you are very good friends, you learn a lot.   
I always try to practice with him, because he's really important to me, to be near the best players and practice with them.   
I just try to learn about how he practice, what he do after practice, before practice, after matches, before matches.  I think I'm learning a lot.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT