ROLAND GARROS
June 2, 2017
Pablo Carreno Busta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
P. CARRENO BUSTA/G. Dimitrov   
7-5, 6-3, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  If you take all the surfaces, clay, hard court, grass, are you 10% better on clay, 20% on hard court, -10% on grass?  
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA: Well, I think I'm 50% better on clay, 50% better on hard court, and on grass, in this moment, I am not good, but I will try to continue.  I'm very happy in this surface.   
 Q.  How do you feel about playing Milos?  What's the challenge for you playing Milos?  
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA: I play sometimes against him, and I lost all the times.  But it was good matches.  I think the last one was in Paris last year in Masters 1000.   
I need to try to be very focused on my service, on my games with the serve, and then try to take the opportunities on his serves, because, well, it is very difficult to do something.  But I will try, of course.   
 Q.  How will it be different?  Will it be better for you on clay?  
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA: When you play on clay, maybe the serves are not the most important thing.  If you play on hard court, of course it's most important.   
So I will try to return as much as possible serves that I can, and then try to be solid to play aggressive and try to dominate the points where we play the point.   
 Q.  Is there a secret to returning Milos' serve?  
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA: It is so difficult.  I don't know the secret.   
 Q.  You must be very satisfied to get to a first Grand Slam fourth round, particularly after the fast start that Grigor made?  
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA: Yes, of course I'm very happy because I play three good matches here.  Last year in US Open I won two.  I lost in the third.  Now I could win this one.   
I growing up like a tennis player, so for me is very important thing.  I will try to continue this way and be in the second week of a lot of Grand Slams.   
 Q.  On the Roland Garros website doing a feature on the Bullring court, the Court No. 1, can you say what makes it kind of special, as it is coming down actually?  
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA: It's a very nice court.  I think is the first time that I play there, but I was comfortable playing there.  The people was very good, and I think with Milos maybe we play in a big court, but I don't know in the one, if it's in the first one, is good for me.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Spanish.   
 Q.  You were at 4-0 in the first set, and suddenly he started to win.  What happened?  
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA: Yes.  Things were going exactly the way I wanted, but I think I was perhaps a little nervous at first, and he started playing very well.  I was expecting that.  But there wasn't a huge difference.  Of course when you're playing this type of guy and this type of match, the slightest difference, something that goes on a little bit too long, and then things don't happen like you would want them to when you're at 4-Love.  And then of course I tried to be more aggressive after that, to take a little bit more risks than I had planned to.   
And of course he played very well.  But I did manage to win, and then there was this break point that was very, very long.  That gave me more confidence to work on the following games.  And then I continued to play well, and perhaps better than he did.   
 Q.  We were talking the other day about how you feel when you play against someone like him.  We were talking about a thermometer, because now it's Milos who is coming up.  Don't you think it's something that's beyond your reach?  
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA: No.  It's not impossible.  Once you reach this level in the tournament, you know that every game is going to be difficult.  It will be difficult for me, but for my opponents, too.   
So I think Milos is probably more relaxed, because he didn't play today.  But as I said before, I'm going to try to focus as much as possible on my serve to reach his level and try to waste no opportunities.   
 Q.  People always say that maturity comes with experience, but there are a lot of people who don't reach the right level of maturity.  How would you explain your evolution over the past few years?  
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA: It's true that experience is key, but it's even more important when you learn from it.  You need to learn from your victories but also from your defeats, and I always have takeaways from every game that helped me to improve.  I hope that will continue.   
But gradually, bit by bit, I'm not going to put too much pressure on myself.  I am confident.  I am going to the quarterfinals for the first time in a Grand Slam tournament, so I'm really going to do my best to deliver.   
 Q.  You won in Estoril this year on clay.  What did the victory mean for you, and what can it contribute to your Grand Slam?  
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA: It was my first title on clay, so a very important tournament for me.   
And in Estoril, I always play very well, because I feel comfortable there.  I had won on quick and on indoor, too.  So it was very important to win on clay so that people would acknowledge that I'm a good clay player.   
So here I am on clay feeling very confident.  Naturally I'm going to try to use this confidence in my experience in the match against Milos.   
 Q.  Is this the last episode or is it a series?  
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA: Well, I don't know.  We'll decide.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT