ROLAND GARROS
October 5, 2020
Pablo Carreno Busta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








P. CARRENO BUSTA/D. Altmaier
6-2, 7-5, 6-2
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. What were you feeling?  Trainer came out.  What was happening the end of the second set?
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA:   I had some problems in the stomach.  I didn't feel my best form.  Sometimes you have to win these kind of matches if you are not at 100%, no?  It's also important to win when you are not at 100%.
I think today was one of these days that you need, yes, to do the best as you can in this moment.  Happy for the victory, but trying to recover as soon as possible.
Q. How would you describe your last three, four, five weeks?
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA:   Yeah, was crazy weeks, no?  In the bubble in U.S., five weeks there, four weeks there, playing matches every day, every two days.  A lot of pressure because I was playing the last rounds.
Then I go Rome.  I have, like, two days to be ready.  Was impossible to try to win Rafa on clay without practicing there, with the jetlag and everything.
Then I come back to Spain.  I try to recovery little bit, mentally and physically.  Then I practice two, three days, and I come to Paris.
Well, at the beginning of the tournament I wasn't on my best level because I didn't practice enough.  But during the tournament I feeling comfortable on court, I'm feeling really good, playing a really good level.
Well, happy for the level that I am playing, happy for be in the quarterfinals again.
Q. There's going to be a lot of talk about this next match that you have now with Novak after what happened in New York.  Can we have your thoughts looking ahead?
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA:   Well, it's another match, no?  Another match against the No. 1 of the world.  He won two weeks ago in Rome.  He's winning his matches here in Paris not easy but comfortable.  It will be a really tough match, no?  I suppose that he's ready for the fight again.
In New York happens that everyone knows, but I think this is another match, is another battle.  For sure he will be at 100% again.  I will try to do my best to try to beat him.
Q. It was a very unusual way the match in New York ended.  Have the two of you spoken at all with each other about that since it happened?
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA:   No.  I think it was bad luck.  This is a tough situation for him.  I know that he didn't want to do this.  Sometimes is better to forget it and try to continue the way.
I think Novak is a great player, a great person.  Sometimes we cannot control our emotions.  We have to do it.  Sometimes is not easy.  A mistake.
Q. You have a bright smile.  The one thing that is brighter on your smile is the color of your shirts.  Do you wear them because you like the colors or are you trying to score a psychological advantage over your opponents?  How brightly do you think you're playing right now?
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA:   No, it's easier than all of this.  Joma give me these shirts with this color.  I like the shirts and I like the jacket.  I like orange.  But nothing special.  I am feeling comfortable.  I think with other color, of course, I will feel comfortable, too.
Now looking for the next match, trying to recover as soon as possible.  Well, I have tomorrow, and I play after tomorrow.  I will try to do my best again.  It's another good match to play, good opportunity to be again in the semifinals.  I know that I play against the No. 1 of the world.  Why not beat him, no?  I need to do it my best match.  I will try to do it.
Q. Going into this match against Novak, will what happened in New York come into your mind at all?  Would it be easy to keep out of your mind?
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA:   No, I don't think is come into my mind because is something that normally never happen.  Of course, I'm not thinking about happens again.  I just thinking about do my best, try to do a good match, have the opportunities to be close on the score.
Is important to be there all the time and fighting every points.  Well, I have the opportunity, take advantage of it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT