US OPEN
September 6, 2020
Pablo Carreno Busta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








P. CARRENO BUSTA/N. Djokovic
6-5 [by default]
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. What did you see and what was your reaction when Novak hit the ball, and then during the discussion and decision?
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA:   Well, I didn't watch the moment when he threw the ball, no?  I was looking to my coach, celebrating the break.  When I turn back again, the line umpire was on the floor.
I'm very apprehensive with these kind of things, so I was a little bit in shock, no?  I ask to the Colombian guys who was in the crowd if the ball hit the line umpire, and I was in shock.
I never expected this moment playing against Novak, you know.  So it was tough moment also to me.
And then when they was talking on the net, I just try to be focused if the case that we have to continue playing.  In one moment I ask to the referee, What's happen?  Because I didn't know if -- it was so long, to me, no, this moment.
So I don't know.  It was 10 minutes or 15 minutes.  But it was a little bit cold, so I need to be ready in case, in the case that we have to continue.
I just ask to him, and then finally Novak give me the hand.  That's it.
Q. Did you think that Novak should have been allowed to continue playing, given that it was fairly clear that he didn't intentionally mean to hurt the linesperson, despite that the rule says you're out?
THE MODERATOR:   Can you repeat that slower, please.
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA:   Sorry.
Q. That's okay.  Did you think Novak should have been allowed to continue playing, given that he said it was not intentional that he hit the linesperson?
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA:   No, of course I think this was not intentional.  I don't think that any one of us, of the players, do this kind of thing intentional, you know.  It's just the moment.  It's just I broke him the serve, and, you know, he throw the ball.
I think that it was bad luck, no?  You cannot do this, but of course I think that Novak never, never wants to hit the line umpire.
Q. But did you think he should be allowed to continue playing and just be fined?
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA:   Well, the rules are the rules.  These kind of things never likes.  The referee and the supervisor do the right thing, but is not easy to do it, no?
Q. How much of a shock was it for you when it happened?  Did you see it as it happened?
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA:   No, I didn't see it.  I told you before I was looking to my coach, celebrating the break.  And when I turn back, I just watch the line umpire on the floor.
Of course I was in shock, because I never expect this moment, no?  I was very focused on do my game and play the match.  Well, in this moment, I was in shock.
Well, I just tried to be calm, because I don't know what is going to happen, you know, if we can continue or if we finish the match.  Finally we finish, and I continue really in shock.
Q. And do you know if the lineswoman is okay?
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA:   I don't know.  I don't know.  I'm going to ask, of course.  In the moment I didn't go to her, to watch her, because I'm apprehensive.  I'm a little bit apprehensive, and it was a really tough moment also to me.
But of course I hope the best for her.  I hope that she will be okay as soon as possible.
Q. It's been reported tonight that Novak Djokovic has left Flushing Meadows.  As the person who was formerly head of the players council who is now starting a new union, do you think he should be fronting up to the world media tonight and explaining his action?
PABLO CARRENO BUSTA:   Well, I don't know.  I suppose that he will explain the moment, no?  Of course it's a tough moment for him.  It will be if the case that I was the guy who do this.
But, you know, I don't think that these kind of things and the association works together.  These are different things, different questions.  The association is not the moment for -- I think that it's not the moment to speak about the association.  Novak is a great player, he's a great person.  I think that he don't want to do this, of course.
Well, just bad luck to the line umpire.  I'm so sorry about that, because it's not the way that I wanna be in quarterfinals.  I was playing my match.  I was playing really good, and I was enjoying the match.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT