ANA INSPIRATION
September 10, 2020
Georgia Hall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Georgia, nice bogey-free opening round for you.  Always a great day when you can do that, especially when you can start a major in that fashion.  How does this open up your feel for the course over the next three days?
GEORGIA HALL:   Yeah, I'm really happy with how I played.  I got the pace of the greens really well from the start, which I was very happy about, and managed to hole some good putts.  But yeah, I think it was really good that I didn't get a bogey out there.  I made some crucial up-and-downs to save par.
Q. How do you anticipate the greens to perhaps change a little bit with an earlier tee time tomorrow?
GEORGIA HALL:   Yeah, maybe a little bit softer, but they're pretty firm anyway.  Yeah, I don't think they'll be too different, but obviously looking forward to playing in the morning.  Hopefully it will be a bit cooler, as well.
Q. So much is different out on the course, trees missing, bunkers added, the grass is completely different from when you guys play here in the spring.  How did the course play overall this afternoon?
GEORGIA HALL:   Yeah, I mean, it's obviously running out a lot more on the greens than normal on your approach shots, so I think that's slightly harder to judge.  Their fairways are narrower for sure, and especially adding a few bunkers in there.  But other than that, I mean, it wasn't too hot today.  It wasn't too bad.  Yeah, it was a lot of fun out there and the course is always in great condition.
Q. You didn't step on your ball in the rough at all today?
GEORGIA HALL:   No, you definitely have to look out for that, though, because they go right down.
Q. Unique setting, obviously no grandstands over there on 18, and it's the second major in a four-week span.  How did preparing at AIG with no fans, how did that help prepare you for a setting similar to this, especially when that's so prevalent here?
GEORGIA HALL:   Yeah, obviously I just want to play as much as possible, having a very long break, like six months off.  AIG was my second week back, so I was kind of still getting into things, seeing where my game was at.  But now this is my fourth, I think, event, so I'm really kind of getting to know where my game is at and preparing well for the events I think is very important.
Q. You're a past major champion.  At what point this weekend do you look back maybe on the 2018 Open win and reflect or draw on some of those experiences to find a leaderboard here and maybe another run at a major title?
GEORGIA HALL:   Yeah, well, I've been under pressure before, and I think it's very important to take it shot by shot and not look too far ahead, so that's kind of my goal for tomorrow.  I'm just going to focus on tomorrow for now and see where I end up.  But yeah, just being patient, as well, because you're not always going to hit shots that you want, and just try and hole some more putts.
Q. Your playing partner in a pretty solid day, as well.  What was it like playing with Madelene who's won this year, and how did you bounce off each other a little bit with the solid play?
GEORGIA HALL:   Yeah, obviously she's a great player and it was very chilled out there.  We were chatting along the fairway quite a lot.  Yeah, she had a great round, as well, so hopefully we can do the same tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT