CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
December 20, 2020
Georgia Hall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  THE MODERATOR:   Georgia, it's the final round.  You did really well this week.  What do you think was the strongest part of your game?
 GEORGIA HALL:   Good question.  I think it was different bits at different times.  I had a lot of good chips this week.  Maybe could have holed a few more putts.
 But I was pretty consist I thought, and, yeah, I'm happy with my week.
 Q. And do you think there is anything that you're looking forward to working on in the off-season?
 GEORGIA HALL:   I think maybe a bit of putting and just to get a little bit more consistency of my long game.
 But it was great to be in the final group today and put myself in contention, so I just need to keep doing that.
 Q. What was that like playing in the final group?
 GEORGIA HALL:   I think it's No. 1 and No. 2 in the world, so no better place to be.  I know I had to par the last yesterday to get in the final group, which I really wanted to do.
 And, yeah, I think I wasn't really nervous.  I handled the pressure pretty well.  Yeah, it's just the more, more times I can keep putting myself in a position like that I can gain more experience.
 Yeah, I'm happy.
 Q. What would you say is the best part 2020?  You had the win at Cambia.
 GEORGIA HALL:   Yeah, definitely.  That was the highlight.  I've had some close calls as well with other tournaments and in contention for the final one of the year.  End the year on a high.
 Even though it's been a tough year for everyone, I'm just really grateful for the LPGA to put as many tournaments as they did on.
 Q. My last question is Christmas is right around the corner.  What are you looking forward to doing during the holidays?
 GEORGIA HALL:   Probably eating.  Like dinner for Christmas will be really nice, and try to see family if we can.
 Q. What are your plans?  Will you come back for the Tournament of Champions or what's the schedule?
 GEORGIA HALL:   Yes, I will.  Definitely Diamond and then I'll see in February.  I haven't looked at the schedule yet, but I would like to get off to a fast start next year, so, yeah, I'll play as many as I can.
 Q. When will you come back to the States then?  Right before the tournament or...
 GEORGIA HALL:   Probably a whole -- probably a week before Diamond.
 Q. I know you can't practice at home.
 GEORGIA HALL:   I mean, the weather won't be great, yeah.  So normally I arrive Monday; I'll arrive Thursday before maybe and try and do some warm weather practice and stuff like that.
 Yeah, I'm looking forward to it.
 Q. You played alongside Jin Young today.  What impressed you the most about her game and the way she finished the year with these four tournaments?
 GEORGIA HALL:   It was absolutely incredible.  I've never seen a player play like her, to be honest, especially the last six, seven holes.  Must've been four birdies or something.
 Just made it look is easy hitting it to 10-foot and straight in the middle.  Fantastic player and definitely inspiration.
 Q. You say you've never seen anyone like her.  What specifically do you think makes her so different?
 GEORGIA HALL:   Well, she's so consistent.  Everything is 10-foot, 15-foot, all the time, no matter what club she has in her hand.  Putting she's so precise and the pace is never more than a foot and a half by the hole.  Every time the pace a perfect.
 So definitely something I'll work on.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT