ANA INSPIRATION
April 5, 2019
Georgia Hall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Good round today; 11-under for the tournament, 2-under today.  
GEORGIA HALL: Yeah.   
 Q.  And conditions were a little bit easier than yesterday afternoon?  
GEORGIA HALL: Yeah, yesterday afternoon the back nine was so hard.  It was like a two, three (indiscernible) wind and it kept switching so it's really hard to kind of get clubs into greens right.   
But I was really happy the way I played yesterday.  I just kind of had a silly bogey on the last.  When I woke up this morning I hoped it would be similar conditions to yesterday, and there wasn't much wind apart from the last five holes.   
I tried to improve my score, and I was happy with that.   
 Q.  Wind is really picking up now for people in the afternoon.  
GEORGIA HALL: Yeah.  I think it's fair, I reckon.  I don't know what it's going to be in two hours.   
 Q.  So you're well placed.  
GEORGIA HALL: Yeah, I'm quite happy with that.  The golf course is so much harder than the previous few years.  They've tightened the fairways, and the rough around the greens and fairways is really tough.   
Yeah, I was happy on the last.  Three shots better than yesterday.   
 Q.  Yeah, but you're not feeling very well?  
GEORGIA HALL: No.   
 Q.  Tell us a little bit about that.  
GEORGIA HALL: Well, after my round yesterday I got hayfever all week anyway, and get it when we're here, literally this week.  I had like three hours sleep because I got a temperature I think.  I was really hot in the night and had to go sit in the lounge for like three hours at 3:00 a.m.   
Yeah, it's an annoying cough.   
 Q.  Everyone says beware the injured golfer, right?  
GEORGIA HALL: Yeah, exactly.  So hopefully I'll be back tomorrow.   
 Q.  How is it with your dad on the bag this week?  Is it all feeling quite familiar?  
GEORGIA HALL: Yeah, it's cool.  It's nice to have everyone here, the same kind of people when I was at the British.  I'm just kind of happy that all my family is around.  I don't see them as much and they don't get to come out as much.   
Really it's just all about my family - and Harry is family - being together.  It's good fun, though.   
 Q.  He's not doing anything nasty like wearing the same socks every day again, is he?  
GEORGIA HALL: He hasn't told me.  I can ask him, but I hope he isn't.  It's different weather to the British.   
 Q.  Tell us a little bit about 18, the birdie.  How important was it to get back to level par and get yourself back on the leaderboard?  
GEORGIA HALL: Yeah, I mean, I'll take par because 18 is really not a very nice hole on every single shot.  I made double yesterday after what I thought was a good shot in and went in the water.  I kind of did a similar thing.  I hit good shot and the wind got up.  That put me on the front of the green.   
I thought it was going to roll back and I was so relieved.  I was happy to hole this putt.  I think that made a big difference.   
 Q.  How long was the putt?  
GEORGIA HALL: I would say 20 -- over 20, 25 feet.   
 Q.  What are you going to do now?  
GEORGIA HALL: I was going to practice but I don't think I will just because of the way I'm feeling.  I might try and have a nap around lunchtime.   
I don't think in this wind -- I think it's less out on the range, so doesn't really suit me hitting balls with left-right wind.  If anything, I'll do some putting.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT