HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 22, 2019
Georgia Hall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You were on a roll today.  That's awesome.
GEORGIA HALL: Yeah, I tee'd off 10, so my front nine, actually back nine, yeah, I was playing really, really well.  I got like seven birdies in ten holes I think.  Just wanted to keep it going as much as I can.
I played well my back nine as well.  I just didn't hole as many putts.  Got up and down a couple times to par, so that was good.
Q. What was the key to your game today?
GEORGIA HALL: I think my approach shots.  There are some tough pins out there, and I managed to hit quite a few to three foot, so it was easy birdie -- well, easier to hole it -- and I holed couple good putts, so I think just consistent approach shots into greens helped.
Q. We heard about the tough pin positions, especially 18.  How was it today?
GEORGIA HALL: Yeah, 18 the pin is pretty much in the same position as yesterday.  I was three shots better today.  I doubled to yesterday.  I was so relieved when I got off that hole.  18 and 9 greens are really tricky.  If you can get off them with a par, you're happy, I think.
Q. How are you liking golf and your experience in Thailand?
GEORGIA HALL: It's good.  It's really hot.  The first time I came here when I played this event two years ago I really struggled.  I think my body has adapted now.
The golf course is amazing condition.  The greens are perfect.  This course is really kind of keen and friendly, so it's always nice.
Q. And massages?  Food?
GEORGIA HALL: Oh, yeah.  I love rice, so it's great here.  I got a foot massage last night.  Yeah, really nice here, and it's cheap.
Q. I know, right?  What are you going to do to prepare for tomorrow's round?
GEORGIA HALL: I'm going to dinner with Ariya and Moriya tonight, so that will be nice.  Hopefully take me to a really nice restaurant because they're locals.
Q. You trust their opinion.
GEORGIA HALL: They're like, Meet me in the lobby at 5:00.  I'm like, Okay.  So that will be cool.  Maybe just half hour practice after lunch and go and chill and have a foot massage.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT