UL INTERNATIONAL CROWN
October 4, 2018
Charley Hull
Georgia Hall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Georgia and Charley, you've had two matches which have shown your grit and the way you've really dovetailed well as a team.  You were 1-down after nine holes.  What turned the match around today?  
GEORGIA HALL: Well, I also holed some really putts on the back nine.  On the last four holes, I birdied the last three, so that definitely helped us.  And I think Charley was the better player on the front nine, so I think we kind of matched each other quite well.   
 Q.  The course was quite different today.  How difficult and challenging was it out there?  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, it was playing super long.  Yeah, it was crazy long, and then the back nine played a bit shorter.  I'd say making three birdies on the back nine, I thought it was going to win, so I birdied 10 and 14, and then Georgia birdied a few in, so it was good.   
 Q.  You must be loving playing together because you're dovetailing really well.  
GEORGIA HALL: Yeah, today we kind of took it in turns a bit more, I think, and yeah, we played really well.  Like I said, I hit driver off the deck on one hole on a par-4, and I've hit nothing but -- I've hit two more 3-woods into par-4s, so it was playing so long.   
 Q.  Charley, when you look at a day like this, you know it's going to be a long one.  Round 3 is going to be starting a little later.  How do you prepare for it?  Do you just have to go with the flow?  
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, just gut it out.   
 Q.  What's wrong with you, you picked up a little throat --  
CHARLEY HULL: I think so, yeah.   
 Q.  Tight turnaround going into the afternoon.  How do you sort of set yourselves up again for the afternoon matches?  
GEORGIA HALL: You know, we're just going to dry off a bit and have something to eat and then just go again and focus on our own games, I think, but we've had a really good start to the tournament for Team England, so we're very happy.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT