CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
December 19, 2020
Georgia Hall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Georgia, solid 4-under today.  You rebounded nicely after an early bogey to string together a bogey-free back nine.  How did you rebound so quickly and follow up with a strong finish?
 GEORGIA HALL:   Yeah, I hit it pretty good today as well.  I just didn't hole many on the front nine, so I had to stay patient.
 Yeah, managed to get a couple early in the back nine and then just followed in from there really.  Very happy with my back nine to get me especially into contention for tomorrow.
 Q. What is the difference between the front and the back nine on this course specifically?  It seems like maybe once you get into a rhythm it's maybe easy to pick up some birdies on this course.
 GEORGIA HALL:   Yeah, I definitely think the back nine is easier.  Front nine I personally find a little bit tougher.
 But hopefully that will change tomorrow.  Yeah, there were a few tricky holes that you just got to be careful with and be happy with a par.  You get some chances become nine for sure.
 Q. You'll be in one of the final two groups off No. 1 tomorrow.  Just to be in contention in the final tournament of the year, biggest winner's check available, what does it feel like.
 GEORGIA HALL:   Yeah, it's what I worked the last three days for, to be in contention in the final round.  I hopefully am in the final group, if not second to last group, which is great.
 Go out there tomorrow and give it my best shot.
 Q. When you see the leaderboard, I'm sure you took a peek at it throughout the day, and see what Sei Young does, as a competitor, how do you stay focused on the task at hand and not try and catch her?
 GEORGIA HALL:   Yeah, I mean, she's definitely the player to beat at the moment on tour.  She's a fantastic player.  Really nice person.  Obviously she won here last year so likes the golf course.  I think, yeah, I mean, she'll be tough to beat maybe tomorrow.
 Yeah, I'll try my best.  Yeah, we'll see.
 Q. What's the game plan for you tomorrow specifically?  Obviously as many birdies as possible.  Do you have a number in mind that you would like to reach?
 GEORGIA HALL:   Not sure.  I haven't quite thought that far ahead.  I think I'm just going to play my normal golf and see where I stand with six, seven holes to play.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT