THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 15, 2018
Georgia Hall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Can you describe your round?
GEORGIA HALL: Yeah, it was a bit up and down, but I had a good front nine and holed some good putts.
Then I missed some putts on the back nine.  The pins were very hard today, especially on the front nine.  I was glad I managed to shoot 3-under there.
Q. In terms of putts holed, how important would you say that par on 17 was for you?
GEORGIA HALL: Yeah, because I knew I was around maybe top 3 and I wanted to try to get in the final group if I could.  Not sure if I'll be in it, but I know I'll be close.
17 is a tough hole and I was very happy to make that 8-footer.
Q. How does it feel playing in your first major as a major champion?  Does it give you that extra bit of confidence?
GEORGIA HALL: Yeah, definitely.  I'm really enjoying it out here.  It definitely gives me a bit of confidence teeing up on the First Tee.
Yeah, I mean, I'm playing really well at the moment.  Hopefully I can have a low one tomorrow.
Q. In terms of how the course is playing and your game, what do you feel like you need to do tomorrow to be in with a chance?
GEORGIA HALL: I think just hole some more putts.  I think I've had some putts every day that I've just missed -  like a lot of players.  I think I'm in with a good chance tomorrow.  Four or five shots isn't that much round this golf course, so I'll have to play smart hopefully.
Q. Well done.
GEORGIA HALL: Thanks.
Q. As you said, disappointing back nine.
GEORGIA HALL: Yeah.
Q. Can you put your finger on what was wrong with the 14th tee shot?
GEORGIA HALL: Yeah, I was in between clubs and really thought a rescue would be too much, so I tried to absolutely smash a 4-iron as hard as I could and just completely lost my timing and pulled it left.
Actually had a really good chance to save par there, but I just pulled as well my putt.  So a bit disappointing because I had a 7-, 8-footer for eagle on the previous hole and I missed that as well.
Then the hole before that I missed a three-footer, so that part of very frustrating.  But I did play the front nine very well, and 3-under today is not a bad score on those pins.
Q. Did that play with your mind at all after that?
GEORGIA HALL: I had to take a few deep breaths, but I played well coming in, especially like the last two, because they're quite hard.  The last three, sorry.
So I was happy to par the last three.
Q. With few exceptions, Georgia, we've seen a ton of missed short putts.  Putts that you look at and say, Okay, that's going to be a makeable putt.  What is it?  Is it subtle?  Are you just not seeing it?  Not from you.  I'm talking about from everyone.
GEORGIA HALL: Oh from everyone?  Yeah.  Oh, yeah.  I think most of them are misreads because they're very subtle.  Some six-footers turnabout two foot, which is hard to combine the line and the pace.  I think that's why you're seeing a lot of six-footers missed.
It's normal.  These greens are so hard, so you are going to miss some.
Q. Are they the speed that you expect them to be or are they different than a normal week?
GEORGIA HALL: They're good speed.  Maybe slightly slow, but we've had some rain as well.  But they roll really well.  They're in great condition.
Q. Feel more comfortable, kind of similar to how was it at RICOH coming from behind?
GEORGIA HALL: Yeah.  I don't mind where I am at the moment.  I think where I am is definitely doable I think after I hole some good putts tomorrow definitely.
But yeah, I think I'll go out and feel quite comfortable tomorrow.  Not in the final group can be a good thing as well, so I look forward to it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT