THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 13, 2018
Georgia Hall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Georgia, I don't know if you got a chance to look at the scores from the morning wave, but they were all over the place.  Some good ones and some not-so-good ones.  What were your expectations starting the day?  
GEORGIA HALL: Yeah, this golf course is pretty tough, and the greens especially.  I think it's better weather than last year, so 6-under is a great score still.   
But, you know, I was happy with my round today.   
 Q.  Bogey-free is pretty good.  You're now in the conversation of pre-tournament favorite every time you tee it up.  Do you feel like a different player than perhaps six months ago?  
GEORGIA HALL: I think I'm definitely more experienced since I won the British.  Next time I'm in that position or I'm doing well I think I'll feel fine, not as nervous.   
You know, I really enjoy coming back to this tournament and playing on this golf course.  Yeah, I'm happy and I'm enjoying it.   
 Q.  It's a course that in your opinion has it really grown into the status that it enjoys as a major?  
GEORGIA HALL: Yeah, definitely.  It's quite tough and some demanding tee shots as well.  You have to be a good putter to play well around this golf course and score low.   
I putted all right today.  See what it's like tomorrow.   
 Q.  Nice round.  No bogeys.  Do you think you left a few out there?  
GEORGIA HALL: Yeah, especially back nine.  But, you know, I had it in my head as well that I wanted to be bogey-free, and that's quite a special thing I think round this golf course.   
Yeah, I'll take that as my first round.  I'm quite happy with that.   
 Q.  First round of the British how far were you -- you were in the lead, weren't you, after the British?  
GEORGIA HALL: No.  Someone shot like 9-, 10-under I think.   
 Q.  It was the Thai girl.  
GEORGIA HALL: Yeah.   
 Q.  Yeah.  
GEORGIA HALL: Yeah, shot like 8-, 9-, or 10-under or something and I think; I shot 6, so I was three, four behind.   
 Q.  It's a good solid start as well.  
GEORGIA HALL: Yeah, I think I am three shots behind, but it's first day.  Doesn't really like mean loads.  I had a good round, and you know, three behind is nothing really.   
Yeah, I'm happy with that.   
 Q.  You're not playing a football match tonight?  
GEORGIA HALL: No, I'm not.  I've got a very early tee time.  Yeah, I'll get to bed, I think.  I would otherwise.   
 Q.  What are your goals for the next three days?  
GEORGIA HALL: Hole some more putts, because every putt seems to break about four foot and it's pretty tough.   
I have to see how tomorrow goes, I think.   
 Q.  What are you going to do now?  
GEORGIA HALL: Right now?   
 Q.  Yeah, with the rest of the evening?  What time will you set your alarm for tomorrow?  
GEORGIA HALL: I don't know.  Probably like quarter 6:00 or something.  Haven't really thought about it.  Yeah, probably just get some dinner quickly and try to be sleep by like half 9:00, if I can.  Make sure I'm in bed by 9:00.   
 Q.  So you said you wanted to be bogey-free, so your sights were set on -- that's a defensive play, would you say, rather than going for?  
GEORGIA HALL: Well, I think level par round this golf course isn't too bad either.  I only got three birdies, which isn't loads.  If I feel like I'm being free and I make, you know, four or five putts and I shoot 5-under, I think that's a good mindset.   
I never play offensive anyway.  You don't really see me laying up on par-5s much.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT