CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
August 31, 2018
Georgia Hall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  15-under through round 2, 9-under for the day.  You broke the 36-hole tournament scoring record today.  It was so fun to watch you out there drain those long putts.  What was going on out there for you today?  
GEORGIA HALL: Yeah, I think, like you said, the putts were really good.  You know, I holed some really long ones, as well, and my long game was pretty good today, and I didn't really miss a green that much.  I'm extremely happy, and I kind of stayed in there and kept trying to get more birdies, so I was happy with that.   
 Q.  At one point you were 10 strokes ahead of your competitors in the same group.  How did you keep the momentum up?  
GEORGIA HALL: Yeah, it was a bit strange looking at that.  I don't really see that a lot.  But I just thought, I just want to keep going.  I want to get as far ahead of the others as I can.  That's what I kept thinking.  I just want to like increase the distance apart.   
 Q.  Talking to your caddie a little bit, he said it was a little scary to watch you play today.  What do you think he meant by that?  
GEORGIA HALL: Well, after about the seventh or eighth one in a row went in, he was like, oh, God, you're scaring me, what's going on.  I don't know if that's a good or bad thing.  But I just kept in my own bubble and just kept focusing on the putts, and they were dropping, so like I said, I'm extremely happy with 9-under, and it's my low score to date, so it's good.   
 Q.  A couple of years ago, 15-under was good enough to win the tournament, and you're three strokes ahead in the lead right now going into the weekend.  How are you feeling going into the weekend?  
GEORGIA HALL: Yeah, very confident.  You know, I love this golf course.  It's very nice to play.  It's in great condition, so I look forward to the weekend and seeing what I can do.   
 Q.  I think you were battling a cold last week or this week?  
GEORGIA HALL: Yeah, bad one, yeah.   
 Q.  Have you gotten over that?  
GEORGIA HALL: Yeah, I think it was just due to jet lag, and like it was a really long flight.  I hadn't one in two months, like a really long one.  I know that sounds a bit silly, but yeah, I had a bad cold, and the weather didn't help because it's freezing in the morning, as well.  I think I'm back to normal now, so it's nice.   
 Q.  What do you think helped?  Did you sleep --  
GEORGIA HALL: I slept all the time, and I tried to drink lots of water, so I think that definitely helped.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT