CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
December 18, 2020
Georgia Hall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  THE MODERATOR:   Georgia, second straight 3-under, 69.  One blemish on the scorecard with only one bogey; four nice birdies today.  Take me through one or two that maybe stood out for you in the round?
 GEORGIA HALL:   Yeah, it was a really tough five or six holes.  It was really, really cold and into the wind for a lot them, so staying level par through the first maybe five was crucial for me I think.
 And then I gave myself a lot of chances today and hit the ball a lot closer than yesterday.  Didn't quite hole as many putts but I'm still happy with my 3-under.
 Q. Take me through maybe how the wind, if it changed at all, or how that was a factor, especially probably a little different from yesterday.
 GEORGIA HALL:   Yeah, it was mostly just a lot colder, and the first five are pretty -- probably one of the hardest five on this course, especially when it's into wind.
 Had some long clubs going in.  I think it was on 3 or 4 where I hold maybe a 40-footer for par, so that really kept me going there.
 Q. How do you warmup on a colder day?  Does the warmup routine change a little bit?  Do you listen to different music to get more warm?
 GEORGIA HALL:   For me, I just have to have my mittens with hand warmers in, because if my hands get cold I can't hit the ball properly.
 So I had them on even lining up putts, and, yeah, just walking in between shots.  That was very important.
 But make sure your body keeps warm.
 Q. I'm guessing the next couple days of upper 70s, low 80s is going to be very welcome.
 GEORGIA HALL:   Definitely.  I can't wait.
 Q. How do you like this course in terms of how it sets up for your game and maybe some things you learned from playing here.
 GEORGIA HALL:   Yeah, I think sometimes chipping can be a little bit tough with the grass, but I really like it here.  I mean, it's an amazing area, great golf course.  You can definitely get a lot of chances out there.  If you hole putts, I think you can have a low round.
 Q. Last one I have for you.  Just in terms of how crazy a year it's been, to be here and have CME backing and still supporting a winner's check of $1.1 million, how exciting is it to have this atmosphere and to kind of be at the season finale when maybe in April we didn't even know if we would be here?
 GEORGIA HALL:   Yeah, even in April I didn't know how many tournaments we were going to play, so to be here at CME, all the players are extremely grateful to have the backing of them and have such an amazing golf course and atmosphere.
 We're extremely grateful, and hopefully we can bring at that positivity to next year.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT