ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
July 27, 2018
Georgia Hall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  3-under par round today, low player today.  You're in pretty good shape going into the weekend?  
GEORGIA HALL: Yes.  I think I'm in fairly good position.  I think if I can hole a few more putts on the weekend, I think I should be up there.  But it was a little bit of wind today, but I tried to stay in front in the morning conditions.  I think I've done okay.   
 Q.  You seem a bit dejected.  You think you could have scored the fact that you were striking it really well?  
GEORGIA HALL: Yeah, I missed two fairways, I think.  I hit the ball close a few times and the ball just didn't quite drop, but I chipped in for eagle as well.  So I don't know.  I mean I played pretty decent.  I played a lot better than yesterday.  So I'm happy going into the weekend with my game.   
 Q.  That was my next question.  You eagled the eleventh hole par-5.  Tell me what you did there.  
GEORGIA HALL: I hit a really good drive down the right-hand side and then I hit 5-iron.  I tried to cut it in.  And it was going straight for the pin, and I thought it was going to bounce straight, but it bounced right, and it went down quite a big slope, had quite a flat lie.  Kind of like a little lob shot.  And it ran in the hole perfectly.  It was a good chip.  I think I was a bit unfortunate to be there in the first place, but I was really happy with the eagle there.  Kind of got me going.   
 Q.  Tiffany is currently 12-under par.  You're seven, eight back.  She shot 9-under par yesterday.  Do you see yourself doing something similar tomorrow?  
GEORGIA HALL: Yeah, definitely.  Like I said, I need to shoot two quite low ones for the weekend, but you still get motivated.  I made the cut by one and then I'm third or second or something like that.  Yeah, definitely can be done.  Just do a bit of work this afternoon and I think it will be good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT