THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 15, 2017
Georgia Hall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Great start, you must be very pleased with 3-under today.
GEORGIA HALL: Yeah, I played really well.  My short game, my chipping was really good today, which I'm very happy about.  I holed some really good putts, but I also missed a couple short ones.  But I managed to kind of keep in there, and I played really well on the front nine.
Q. You missed a short one on 16, right?  What other short ones?
GEORGIA HALL: Yeah, a short one there, and I also missed a short one on 6, as well, it was about a six-footer for birdie, but then I did hole two 20-footers, 25-footers.
Q. What did you make of the course and how was it playing today?
GEORGIA HALL: It's playing quite long, but the fairways are very soft and the greens, as well, so you can attack a few more pins.  I thought the pins were actually quite tough for the first day.  They were tucked into some very difficult positions, so yeah, I'm happy with 3-under.
Q. Do you feel you've been made to feel welcome out here?
GEORGIA HALL: Yeah, definitely.  I know everyone now, and I get along with a lot of players, so yeah, I'm really enjoying it, and it's nice to be here like for the first time playing the golf course.
Q. Is that a checklist on your hand to remind you to do something?
GEORGIA HALL: Yeah, take a deep breath.
Q. You hadn't ever set eyes on the course before; does it suit your eye?
GEORGIA HALL: Yes.  I mean, the golf course is not -- I normally play well on tight golf courses.  That's what I've always said since I was about 13, and this is definitely quite tight.  I was a bit -- there are some really tricky holes out there, so I just wanted to see how today went, but I managed to shoot a good score.
Q. And tomorrow is another day?
GEORGIA HALL: Yep, I've got a nice afternoon off now and the whole of tomorrow morning.  I'm off quite late, 1:40 or something.  Yeah, tomorrow might play a bit different.  Might be a lot harder fairways and greens, but just have to see how it goes.  It's only a three-day event now.  Yeah, got to get a quicker start, when I've managed to do, so we'll see how it goes.
Q. What did you do yesterday?
GEORGIA HALL: I warmed up about three times, I think, ready to go out, and they told us we weren't going out.  It was a bit frustrating, yeah, and then in the afternoon I didn't do in the practice.  I just kind of stayed in my hotel room and relaxed.  I was pretty tired so I had a nap.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT