SOLHEIM CUP
August 19, 2017
Anna Nordqvist
Georgia Hall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Georgia, (indiscernible) you've become the superstar of this Solheim Cup, your first ever.  How do you feel out there because you look fearless?  
GEORGIA HALL: Yeah, kind of felt it today.  It's easy to feel like that when you've got a partner like Anna.  She played amazing both matches.  And to get to have some points with her, I'm very happy and we both played well today.   
 Q.  Anna, the game's been looking great.  How are you feeling out there?  Is the tiredness playing a factor at all?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, definitely it's been a factor.  Obviously I wish I was in a little bit better shape this week.  But I rested yesterday.  So I should be feeling better now.  And having a superstar like Georgia certainly helped.   
 Q.  After yesterday afternoon's disappointment, what's it's been like for your team yesterday and this morning?  And what kind of motivation did that give you going into today?  
GEORGIA HALL: I think it was certainly the same if not even better.  I think all of us never give up.  And I think there's still loads to play for, like we've showed this morning.  I think we've played really well and we've got a lot of matches left.   
 Q.  Georgia, how massive was it to get the first point for Europe this morning?  
GEORGIA HALL: Yeah, I think it's very important after a bad afternoon for us yesterday.  Me and Anna both played really well both matches.  And it was a tight match against Stacy and Gerina but we're happy to get the point.   
 Q.  These last two matches for you guys are looking pretty good.  (Indiscernible)?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: She certainly played like a superstar the last two days.  She's very fearless and she's a fun character.  Didn't know her coming into this week, but it's certainly been a blast playing alongside her.  And she has a great future in front of her.   
 Q.  How are you feeling?  Would you be ready to go this afternoon?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, I'm feeling better.  I rested yesterday afternoon.  It's been a little bit of a rocky road the last couple of weeks.  But if Annika plays me, I'm happy to go.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT