ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
July 27, 2017
Georgia Hall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What went through your mind when you woke up and saw conditions this morning?  
GEORGIA HALL: I thought, well, this isn't great.  It was absolute freezing, which I thought it would be anyway.  It was probably a bit windier than this now, I'd say, when I started.  So I thought there might be no wind, and at the end of the day, it wasn't raining, so I was really happy, even though it was really windy.  I don't mind playing in the wind.  I quite like it.  It was kind of two-club, three-, wind out there.  But I played well.   
 Q.  Anything you could have done better?  
GEORGIA HALL: Yeah, I had two 50 degrees inside a hundred yards and put them both in the bunker.  They are probably my two worst shots, because sometimes when you're close to the hole, it goes higher.  So it's harder to control the ball.  But apart from that, I putted well.  I missed two fairways, which in this wind, is pretty good.  So I'm quite happy with the way I'm playing at the moment.   
 Q.  You said you had 25 putts, is that something you've been working on?  
GEORGIA HALL: Since going to America for three weeks, the greens are a lot faster and a lot more slope, so you have to be aware of pace and where you're starting it.  When I was over there, I was focusing on that -- not really.  I think these greens are fairly slow, so I could be a bit more aggressive, which I much prefer, kind of hitting it into the hole a bit harder, so it suited me today.   
 Q.  What's your focus this week?  
GEORGIA HALL: Just focus on each day, really, to be honest.  I think tomorrow could be completely different.  We had a bit of rain for about two holes but it might be raining all day tomorrow or it might be lovely.  So I just have to -- around here, you've got to be so patient, anyway.  So yeah, I'll just see how it goes.   
 Q.  Who is caddying for you this week?  
GEORGIA HALL: My dad, and he's going to caddie next week, as well.  He caddied two out of three tournaments in America.  Yeah, it's good.  Let's me kind of do my own thing.  If I'm in between clubs, he'll help.   
 Q.  Is he a good golfer?  
GEORGIA HALL: Yeah, he used to play, but he goes around with me quite a lot, so he doesn't anymore.  But he used to play off like three or something.   
 Q.  What's his name?  
GEORGIA HALL: Wayne.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT