RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 11, 2014
Georgia Hall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   A few bogeys on the back nine but a level par round, how pleased are you with that? 
GEORGIA HALL:   Level par I'm pretty pleased with.   After, if you asked me level par front nine, no.   But I think‑‑ I couldn't have played any better the front nine.   I holed some really good putts and I didn't get a bogey. 
Then I think I was bound to have a bogey at one stage.   I just hit 6‑iron on I think 14 and just tried to get a smooth one and I went in the bunker and got bogey there.   Then I got bogey the hole before that. 
I tried to go for it on 17, 3‑wood and just pulled it a little bit. 
Then on 18, I hit 3‑wood, just ran off the back and 3‑putted.   I couldn't have finished worse than level par but overall I'm pretty pleased.

Q.   Considering the players that are struggling the front nine, how good is your golf to be 3‑under par? 
GEORGIA HALL:   I struggled yesterday front nine a lot, and I was really happy with the putt on the first after what I had done.   So yeah, I was pleased with 3‑under, and I tried not to think about it and kept it going.

Q.   How does it feel to be leading the British challenge at a home Open? 
GEORGIA HALL:   It's really good. Just try to take advantage of it when I can.   Today went all right.   A little bit disappointed with the end but I'm going to have some bad shots.

Q.   You had hoped to turn pro by now; is that right?
GEORGIA HALL:   Well, I was debating whether to turn pro last year but then Curtis Cup was this year, so I thought I'd get in and I'd get invited for this, so hopefully turn pro in a couple of weeks.   A few things to sort out, but it's looking all right. 

Q.   And this weekend could make a big difference? 
GEORGIA HALL:   Oh, definitely.   I'll try my best at the weekend and just see who I'm playing with and enjoy it.

Q.   What's your first start in your professional career?
GEORGIA HALL:   I don't know.   I'm just going to try and get invites and see how it goes, and if not, I'll go to TOUR School, LET for a year and a bit, two years most, and hopefully go to LPGA. 

Q.   Are you going to try the Access Tour? 
GEORGIA HALL:   Hopefully if I can get through on the LET that would be the best but if not, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT