ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 3, 2017
Wes Moore
Dominique Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Louisville - 59, NC State - 58.
WES MOORE: They battled.  They competed.  You know, obviously Durr was phenomenal in the first half, tried switching up D's a little bit in the second half, and that helped some, but seemed like we gave up some offensive rebounds at some key times, and the phantom kicked ball down there late in the game was tough, too.
But you know, I'm proud of our kids, and we know we'll be playing again.  So just got to try to rest up a little bit and recover from it and get ready to go again.
Q. What is the situation going forward with Jennifer?
WES MOORE: Yeah, we think she'll be all right.  She essentially had a sprained knee, had some pain with it, and felt like it would be better to hold her out today.  But she should be good to go for the postseason.
Q. What was the plan for the last possession?  Where did you want the ball to go?
WES MOORE: Yeah, we were trying to get Dom off a stagger, and I think they were kind of cheating to that side of the floor, and so ended up Ashley Williams came off of it.  When that broke down, we were trying to spread them out, let Maya attack the rim a little bit, maybe should have set a pick on the ball for her but we tried to really spread them out.  Thought she got a pretty good look.  DD did a great job getting to the offensive boards, also got a decent look, just wouldn't go in.
You know, again, one or two plays here or there, seems like every time we've played them it's come down to the very end, and it just shows you how critical every possession is throughout a game.
Q. The kicked ball, did the referees video review that?
WES MOORE: They, I guess, decided that was a kicked ball.  But a pretty critical play.  I think we were up one at the time, and we would have had the ball there with about 30 seconds left, would have forced them to have to foul.  So it was a pretty critical play.  Very critical.
Q. Jeff was very positive of you guys deserving one of the top four seeds in the NCAA Tournament.  He said your body of work deserves it.  Your own thoughts on potentially getting a top 16?
WES MOORE: Well, you know, I appreciate him saying that.  I think we have, what, four wins over top-15 teams.  You know, I don't know.  Sometimes I can't figure some of those things out.  Even right now a couple of polls, two polls have somebody in our league that finished three spots behind us still ahead of us in the rankings.  You know, I don't know.  Maybe -- who knows.  But you know, again, I think our kids, their résumé is pretty impressive, and I think they definitely do deserve consideration for that, but I also realize today was a big game, and that's why that game was so important to both teams.
Q. Wes, 28 points in the first quarter, 30 the rest of the way.  Jeff seemed to think that Jennifer's loss was huge.  Tell me what your thoughts is.
WES MOORE: Well, I mean, definitely that makes a difference because Jen is capable of getting hot and hitting some threes, so it definitely hurt us some.  Foul trouble, also.  You know, Dom had a couple of fouls, and so we had her out a good bit of the second quarter.  But I've got to do a better job.  We scored six points in the second quarter.  That really hurt us.  It did become a very physical game, and I think that kept the score down a little bit.  Both teams did a pretty good job defensively.
But again, second quarter really hurt us, and I'll take some of the blame for that.  I've got to help them more.  But when Dom is off the floor, when Jen Mathurin is off the floor, that's two pretty good scorers, and it did make it difficult.
Q. Dom, did they do anything differently defensively this game?  It looked like they weren't giving you as many three chances as they were in Louisville.  What did they do to take the three of you away from you?
DOMINIQUE WILSON: They face guarded me a lot.  I know trying to get off of screens or hand balls they were in front of me forcing me to go back door, but there was also somebody back there waiting just in case they passed it to me back door.  I think they did a pretty good job at that.  Yeah, and coming off of threes, off of the screen, they showed Little a little bit, but they also had a hand up, and then they did a good job of helping, too, so they made it difficult to shoot it a little bit.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT