ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 4, 2016
Wes Moore
Chelsea Nelson
Miah Spencer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Syracuse 80, NC State 61
WES MOORE: Just too many turnovers that led to points.  I think they scored 29 off of turnovers, and we just didn't handle it very well.  Before when we played them, we had a couple of days to prepare, so today we didn't have that with the quick turnaround or whatever, we didn't have quite as much time, and we just didn't do a good job against the press.
Again, Syracuse did a great job of attacking.  They got us in some foul trouble.  They were able to get to the rim, and then Butler obviously was very, very good, especially in the first half.  I think she was five of six maybe from the three-point line.  Again, they did a lot of good things, and tip your hat to them.
Q. What did they do differently that made their press so much more effective today, if anything, than what they did in the game at Broughton?
WES MOORE: Yeah, again, we maybe didn't skip it quite as much as we did when we were at home, so when we crossed half court they were in pretty good position to set the trap and make it tough on us.  But again, I don't know that it was a whole lot different.  We just didn't have as much time to prepare and didn't handle it as well.
Q. Miah, Coach Hillsman said one of their main focuses was to keep the ball away from you as much as possible.  How much of a compliment is that?
MIAH SPENCER: That's a compliment.  One thing he said after the game was you're like the only point guard that could break our press.  Like Coach said, hats off to them.  They were aggressive in the press, very active, doing the little things, so yeah.
Q. Chelsea, you had a lot of quick points early in the game.  What was leading to that?
CHELSEA NELSON: Just focusing on the basket and putting it in a hole.  I knew where my defender was at all times so it was easier for me to score.
Q. Miah, obviously they pressed full court at Raleigh.  How much more physical was their press this game than they were at home?
MIAH SPENCER: I felt like they just brought out a different intensity, and like Coach Moore said, we didn't skip the ball enough to -- when we did pass half court, they were already matched up basically this game, and when we were at Broughton we were skipping the ball, attacking them, getting behind the zone, getting behind the press and dishing it off, but I just felt like their intensity was higher than it was at Broughton.
Q. Coach Moore, do you think NC State should be an NCAA Tournament team?
WES MOORE: Yeah, I think so.  When you look at how this team has performed in the last couple of months, you know, November, December, we weren't a very good team, to be quite honest, and so I'm proud of the way these young ladies have stepped up and have gotten better over the last few months, and so I do think in this league with the people that we're matched up with that we definitely deserve to be in the tournament.  I feel like we can compete with anyone.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT