ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 6, 2021
Wes Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  NC State 66, Georgia Tech 61
 WES MOORE:   First of all, just have to give Georgia Tech so much credit.  Defensively they were unbelievable.  We had a hard time matching up.  The first half Lahtinen, 14 points, we switched at halftime and put Kai Crutchfield on her and I thought she did a nice job.  And then Cubaj was down low, was just tearing it up.  Again, I think they're going to do real well in the NCAA Tournament.  I think they've got a chance to make a run.
 I am proud of our kids, though.  At halftime we were getting out-rebounded, we were getting out-hustled, fast-break points, second-chance points, everything, and felt like in the second half we hung in there in the third quarter and then the fourth quarter they just found a way to win.  That's what they do.
 I thought Kai Crutchfield was big-time for us, stepping up in clutch moments in the fourth quarter.  She just has a way of doing that.  But she knocked down a three, she got to the rim, she saved the ball down on the baseline, and like I said, we switched her to Lahtinen the second half, and I think she had four points.  And then obviously Elissa Cunane is still who we want to run through and thought she did a great job, as well.
 Q. It seemed like in the first half especially they really wanted to play physical against Elissa.  Do you think that that's something that kind of fires her up and gets her going as the game goes along?
 WES MOORE:   Yeah, I don't know.  You know, again, obviously she's an important part of our offense and what we do, so it's tough on her, because if people really get physical with her, she has to maintain her composure and be under control and make sure she doesn't get in foul trouble.  And she did pick up some today, picked up her third foul there in the third quarter, so we took her out for a little while.
 Yeah, it's tough.  It's tough when they know that you're trying to go to them and they're just, like I said, being very physical with her and trying to help and big and double.  Like I said, I'm proud of the way she fought and handled it.
 Again, she's just so critical to what we do, and proud of her.
 Q. You always say, never underestimate the heart of a champion.  How much of that fourth quarter was just your team's will to win, knowing how to win and just refusing to go down?
 WES MOORE:   Yeah, I really felt like the first half Georgia Tech just played harder than us.  I don't know any other way to put it.  I mean, they out-scored us in fast-break points, they had out-rebounded us, they had out-scored us second-chance points.  Just again, this time of year, people are stepping up and taking it to another level, and you have to match that intensity or you're going home.
 Again, felt like the first half they just hit us in the mouth and took it to us, and second half we competed a lot better, and like you said, I think it's what champions do.  They find a way to win.
 Q. Talk about what you did last time against Louisville when you beat them at their place, what you did really well, obviously, and how you think you can duplicate that again.
 WES MOORE:   Yeah, I'll be honest with you.  That was a while back, and I don't even remember.  At my age, I forget all kinds of stuff.
 As soon as I get done with you guys, I'll go next door and get tested and we'll go back to the hotel, and my assistants have already put together the clips.  I'll go through those, edit them a little bit and then we'll try to show the team tonight, the film, and go over scout.
 Louisville is a great team, and I know we're going to definitely get their A game tomorrow.  I know they're excited about getting another opportunity to play us, and we're going to, quite honestly, have to play better than we've played in these first two games.
 We found a way to win, but I wouldn't say we're clicking by any means.
 Tomorrow we're going to have to have it all come together.  We're going to have to match their intensity, and we're going to have to execute a little bit better offensively and hopefully shoot the ball a little bit better because Louisville is going to score points.  Dana Evans and those kids, Van Lith, they're going to score points.  They've got a lot of weapons over there, obviously.
 It's going to be a great game, and like I say, I just hope we come out and play well, and if we do that, it'll be a good day.
 Q. They're a team that really wanted a slow tempo.  Looked like they tried to shorten the game a little bit.  You mentioned the first half, the way they played.  When you play a team like that, what can be your message coming out of the half?  Is it just challenging your team to play harder?
 WES MOORE:   I'll tell you, that's what I did at halftime, yes.  Tried to challenge them.  I didn't want to go home, to be quite honest.  I'm not ready to go home.  I want to play one more game.  I always tell them, the longer we stay over here, the more days we take off next week and give them a little bit of a break.  But I did, I thought Georgia Tech just came out, as y'all mentioned, was more physical than us.  They're a great rebounding team.  They've got four people that can rebound, including their point guard Fletcher.  She had three offensive rebounds at halftime, and that's what she does.  And then Cubaj and I guess Hermosa, again, they're great on the boards, as well.
 We knew it was going to be a physical game.  We knew it was going to be a challenge.  We played really well down in Atlanta.  I thought the first half at Georgia Tech may be the best game or the best 20 minutes we've played this year, and I don't know if maybe we thought, oh, it's going to be like that, but this Georgia Tech team is for real, and you'd better be ready for 40 minutes.
 Q. You guys struggled with your free throws a little bit last night, but you went 12 of 13 from the line today.  How much of a difference do you think that made and was that a discussion point before the game?
 WES MOORE:   We don't talk a whole lot about those.  I don't want them thinking about them too much to be honest with you.  And I felt like we struggled shooting the ball, but we were 6 for 16 from three.  That's a pretty good percentage.
 I guess you've just got to give it to Georgia Tech that they were defensively making it tough for us to run or stuff.  I know they got a few more shots than we did, even though we out-rebounded them.
 They're just a defensive-minded team.  They're tough, and like I said, I've always said rebounding is the most important part of the game, and Georgia Tech does a heck of a job of that.  I'm glad we were able to -- I think the second half they maybe just had one offensive rebound, which is pretty amazing.
 Our kids stepped up and played with some toughness, and our seniors, Kayla Jones and Kai Crutchfield stepped up and found a way to get it done.  Got one more ahead of us, and again, we know it's going to be a tough one.  It's going to be a great challenge.  I'm excited about being back in that game.
 Q. As a separate question, winning the game in comeback fashion in the fourth quarter like that, do you think that's something that can carry over into the championship game in terms of energy?
 WES MOORE:   I hope so.  Like I said, I felt like we didn't have enough energy in the first half today, so I hope maybe this will give them a little bit of -- a little mojo and we can get going.  Obviously tomorrow is an early day, 12:00 noon tip, so we'll have to get going pretty early.  But I do like the fact our kids have been there before, they've been in that game, most of them, and feel comfortable playing in it.  But like I said, Louisville, a lot of talent, great coach.  It's tough.  It's a big game for us, and like I said, we'll have to play really well.
 I hope we have that momentum and some mojo.
 Q. You've played Virginia Tech, Georgia Tech.  How much is that making your team a better team, and on top of that would you still rate the ACC as probably the most deep conference in the nation?
 WES MOORE:   Yeah, I'll tell you what, there's a lot of really good teams that are being overlooked.  I've said all year long, I think Wake Forest is really good, obviously Georgia Tech, Virginia Tech.  Kenny and them, the second half of the season they were as hot as anybody.  Obviously Syracuse, look what they did.  They were missing six players, I think, today.  It's amazing.  Including their leader, Tiana.  She's going to hopefully be back in time for the NCAA Tournament.  They're going to be a very dangerous team.  You don't want to play them.
 I think we're going to be well represented in the NCAA Tournament.  You know, I had people ask me questions, well, the Syracuse game, you let them come back and take the lead.  Were you disappointed?  Are you kidding me?  Syracuse is undefeated at home this year, okay?  Like I'm going to be disappointed we got out of there with a win?  All these games, I mean, these teams are good.  They've got scholarships and everything, just like we do.  You'd better play 40 minutes and put it all together or you're going to get your butt kicked.  That's why I'm proud of our team.  I think there's some teams with five or six losses that are just as talented as us, but I'm proud of our kids for showing up every night consistently with effort and finding a way to win because there's such a fine line between the top-8 teams in this league or so.
 You know, again, yeah, we think it's going to be well represented.  We think these teams can do some great things.  Like I said, we're just very fortunate that our kids have been as consistent as they have, especially this year.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT