NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v BLACKHAWKS
June 4, 2013
Niklas Hjalmarsson
Nick Leddy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the last couple days.   L.A. on their home ice, 7‑0.   How much are you expecting tonight?   
NIKLAS HJALMARSSON:   We know what they did here last round or round before, I don't remember.   They were down 2‑0.   They're obviously a good team at home.   We really have to be on top of our game here the first period.   We know that they're going to have a lot of energy playing here in front of their home crowd.   I'm pretty sure it's going to be a different game today compared to the two last ones.   
I think we need to step up our game even more if we want to try to get a win out of this one.   
   
 Q.   So much has been made about the Kings being the more physical team.   You seemed to match their intensity.   Was that a conscious decision, part of the strategy?   Do you think you were underestimated in terms of how physical you are?   
NICK LEDDY:   I think obviously they're a very big team.   I think we wanted to work on our strengths, too.   We're a good skating team, a fast team.   We like to put the pressure on them, use our feet.   
   
 Q.   Could you talk a little bit about Michal Handzus.   He seems to be shouldering more responsibility in the post‑season, also his preparation and professionalism in terms of practice.   
NIKLAS HJALMARSSON:   Yeah, I think he's been really good for us.   He's a veteran guy.   He knows what's to be done out there.   As a defenseman, I really like to play with him.   He's always a good option in the middle for the D men.   He always knows where he's supposed to be.   
He's a big part of the success in the penalty killing so far, hopefully going forward.   Yeah, he's been a great addition to our team.   Really a hard worker.   He plays really hard.   It's been a great addition, for sure.   
   
 Q.   Could you talk a little bit about the support you're getting defensively from the guys up front and how much it's helped you get your job done here.   
NICK LEDDY:   They've been great.   I think they've been great all year.   They just kept it going through the playoffs.   This series especially they've been huge for us.   For us to stay up and have a tight gap, you know, put pressure on their forwards, it's huge for the forwards to help us out, come back.   The sooner we get the puck, they'll get the puck.   So it works out for both.   
   
 Q.   How surprised are you that your speed has been able to dominate their size up to this point?   
NIKLAS HJALMARSSON:   I think we've been playing well here the first two games at home.   We know it's going to be a little different picture today.   We know they're going to come out a little harder than they had the last two games.   
We have a lot of speed on our team.   When you have a good gap, back‑checking, we're a hard team to beat.   That's how we played the last two games.   
As I said before, I think we have to step up our game a little bit more if we want to have success here in L.A.   They've been unbelievable playing here in their own building.   We all know they have a great goalie, good defense.   So it's going to be tough to score goals, too.   
Just have to try to get as many pucks on the net as possible and just a lot of big crowd in front of him, try to get some dirty goals there.  
   
 Q.   Joel likes to say that everybody can play with everybody on this team.   Does that go the same for the defensemen?   
NICK LEDDY:   I think once you switch to another D partner, there's a little difference.   But it's so easy playing with everybody.   Everybody makes it super easy.   
For me especially, you know, last year I think I played with everybody on the team.   This year, it's been a little different.   We've had the same D partners for most of it.   But I think the chemistry between all of us is there.   
   
 Q.   Niklas, how far does momentum take you guys?   Is it something that carries on or a new thing every time?   
NIKLAS HJALMARSSON:   Momentum is huge, obviously, in the games, during the games.   I don't know if it carries on over to the next one, especially now when you switch cities.   I think it's tough to carry over the momentum.   
Obviously in the games, the momentum is huge.   I think the first goal is going to be a good one, especially the first game here.   Both teams play really well defensively.   I think the first goal is going to be huge here today.   We're obviously going to try to get that one.   
   
 Q.   You talked a little bit about how your speed is working against these guys.   After what the Red Wings did to you, are you surprised they're not doing the clutching and grabbing?   
NICK LEDDY:   I mean, I don't know.   I think the way we've been playing maybe has led them not to be able to do that as much.   We're really focusing on getting pucks in deep, getting on their defensemen, using our speed like Hammer said earlier.   
Doing that, getting on their D, hitting their D, us D men, we don't like that.   Obviously it puts a lot of pressure on their D, for having clean break‑offs, too.   
   
 Q.   Corey has grabbed some of the spotlight in the series.   Anything in particular you have seen him get better at over the course of the season or into the post‑season?   
NIKLAS HJALMARSSON:   I've been playing with Corey ever since I got here my first year, and in the minors, too.   
I think the biggest difference that I've seen is just focus.   He's been unbelievably focused this year.   The way he's been playing for us this year, giving the D men and whole team a lot of confidence.   He's just been solid game after game.   Especially here in the playoffs he's even stepped up his game even more.   
As I said, I think his focus is something that's really been standing out to me this year, just the way he competes every night.   His focus and the way he competes.   He's always been a competitive guy, but this year he's been stepping up even more I think with the focus and the way he competes in the net.   
   
 Q.   Darryl Sutter has already ruled Mike Richards out for tonight's game.   What kind of player is he?   Doesn't change your approach, but what kind of loss is that for the Kings?   
NIKLAS HJALMARSSON:   He adds a different dimension for the team, I think.   I heard somewhere he has the most points, I don't know, the last three post‑seasons.   He's up there with the most points.   He's a huge part of their game.   
He's not a big guy, but he plays big.   He has a big heart.   You can see that.   He plays tough every shift.   Great passer.   Great shooter.   
Obviously for us as defensemen, he's one less threat out there on the ice.   But they got good players, another forward stepping in the last game, had a goal and an assist.   
There's always good players when you come to the third round in the playoffs.   But it's a big loss for them, for sure.   
NICK LEDDY:   Yeah, I think Hammer covered it pretty well.   He's obviously a great player, winning last year, being a big part of that team.   
I know he was a huge part of Philly's team when he was there.   Obviously that's a huge loss for them.   
Hammer covered it pretty well.   Guys at this level, you know, are unbelievable.   For a young guy to step in and have a big game last game was impressive.   
   
 Q.   Does it seem at all weird not to have been on the ice yesterday or today before the game?   
NIKLAS HJALMARSSON:   Not really.   Personally I kind of like it.   It's nice.   It's been a lot of hockey here.   Back‑to‑back, obviously, and travel days.   Personally, I don't mind it.   
Just try to be mentally ready when the puck drops.   That's what it's all about at this point, I think.   
   
 Q.   Playing three games in four nights, does that have any impact on things tonight?   
NICK LEDDY:   I think playing that amount of hockey in such a short time, with travel, too.   Obviously, playoffs you get tired.   But you have to be mentally tough, you know, just keep things simple, stick to the game plan, not try to do too much.   
   
 Q.   Obviously you guys have been tremendous as a unit killing penalties.   Looking up at Kruger and Frolik, have you encountered other guys with that kind of enthusiasm for killing penalties?   
NIKLAS HJALMARSSON:   I don't really understand the question.   Sorry.   Language barrier.   
   
 Q.   They seem eager, have embraced the role.   
NIKLAS HJALMARSSON:   Yeah, they've been huge.   That's been one of the biggest reasons for us having success on the PK so far.   Last year when we didn't do that well, I think we had way too many shots, just clear points.   Pretty much every night, their D men just had a lot of clear lanes to shoot the puck.   
This year I think we're doing a way better job, especially the forwards, just being in the shooting lane.   The way they work together as a unit up there, it's been really good.   The way they're doing their job in the neutral zone, just overall the penalty kill has been much better this year.   
The goalie is always the most important penalty kill guy, too.   Corey has been good, as I said before.   
We're proud of the way we played so far.   We just have to try to keep it going.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT