CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 24, 2019
Wei Ling Tsu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 7-under par round on moving day. Take me through your round.
WEI LING HSU: Yeah. I mean, had a good group today with Megan; she was character. And so I think I was kind of nervous on first three hole and I made a bogey on No. 3.
I think that bogey kind of help me a little bit start get rid of that nervous and start tell myself like what's the thing I need to do right now. Just keep the good rhythm and kept going. Didn't really think about too much.
Q. What do you think made you nervous? Is that pretty typical for you?
WEI LING HSU: Because it's been two month that I didn't really play the golf I want, so right now I got to this point, very close to top, and just feel -- well, it's been a while to get up here and that's why I get nervous.
Q. Okay. What has been going on and what's maybe been the difference this week for you?
WEI LING HSU: Get rid of the stress. I was very stress out the past two month and try to improve, but the main thing is just mental game. I'm just try to be perfect every time and try to show everybody that I can do it, but actually I just put way too much pressure on my shoulder.
Q. You started the season I think with a Top 5 finish maybe.
WEI LING HSU: Yeah.
Q. Did that kind of set maybe expectations a little high?
WEI LING HSU: Definitely, because I had pretty good -- best career last year, and also finish with third very first event. So you feel like you're ready, ready to go, ready to go win a tournament, but just thinking too much.
Q. Did you work with anyone on the mental side?
WEI LING HSU: Not really, but I think just need to go through that. You just need time to recognize, Hey, you don't need to work that hard and you don't need to be perfect.
You just need to make the boring golf. That's it.
Q. How do you feel then coming off the course today after posting such a good round?
WEI LING HSU: Yeah, I mean, I love this golf course. I will say this is the top three golf course that I like it this season. Definitely very happy to see I can able to shoot 7-under today.
Just give myself a lot of confidence and getting more comfortable in the close to the leader group.
Q. How will you keep the nerves away tomorrow and keep that confident feeling?
WEI LING HSU: Actually, I got really stiff neck today. Actually I feel that help me a lot because I kind of just focus on my contact every shot.
It's not going to worry about rest stuff. So I think I still got stiff neck right now, so, I mean, rest.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT