BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 10, 2004
Al Skinner
Craig Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Seems like we've seen this game 10 or 12 times before this year where you probably would say you're not playing particularly well, but when you have to take care of it, it gets taken care of. 
 
COACH AL SKINNER:  Well, right now it's a little bit of a characteristic of this team.  We're still young.  We're still freshmen and sophomores.  I think there's times that we get excited and our enthusiasm starts to overcome, and so we make plays because we think it's there.  Then, all of a sudden, the play doesn't occur.  We run through these lapses like that.  I think when we need to do something and we really normally execute extremely well.  When we try to improvise, a lot of times we don't come away with the success we're looking for. 
 
Q.  It also covers over to free throws.  You're not a good free throw shooting team until...
 
COACH AL SKINNER:  Well, that's just a matter of some mental toughness that our guys have had.  There's no question throughout the season we've been able to make our free throws coming down the stretch.  Guys want the ball.  I don't know, it is something that's important to us, and something that we talk about:  Free throws wins basketball games.  I think our guys understand that.  I really don't know what the difference is for them; I just know the results that we get.  
 
Q.  Just the play of Craig in this building.  We remember the brilliant game he had last year against St. John's.  He's a dominant player again today. 
 
COACH AL SKINNER:  The thing is, is that today, I thought Georgetown did a good job of fronting and backing.  I think they made it very difficult for him.  He was able to maintain his composure.  Because he was a factor, even though he didn't get as many touches as he would like or I would like, still it created some offensive opportunities for some other people.  But that's who we are.  So sometimes you serve as a decoy, and sometimes you're the focal.  Considering what  -- the success he had against Georgetown the first time, I'm not at all surprised the way they defended him this time.  I would have done the same thing.  But, again, this is something that he has to expect.  But it's important for us to make sure that we're executing and moving the ball so that he does get some touches and he does get some opportunities because we cannot allow someone to negate that option for us.  Now, we can use them as a decoy, and we do do that.  But we cannot allow them to negate it.  We have to use it when we need to.  I think as a team, I think we kind of understand that.  
 
Q.  Just talk about the overall objective here to get to that fourth game. 
 
COACH AL SKINNER:  Well, right now, for us, I mean, we all know it's pretty much one game at a time.  I think in the back of our minds, the credit to the women, they did a nice job down in Hartford.  That is probably one of the few times it serves as a motivation for us.  We know it can be done.  But, again, we have to really  -- we really got to focus in on the very next game.  We cannot afford to expand our thought process beyond that.  Because if we do, we're going to come up short.  Syracuse beat us pretty good last time they played us.  Controlled the game, beat us pretty good.  So we have to make sure that we're prepared to take on that challenge.  
 
Q.  How will this team be different the second time around against Syracuse?
 
COACH AL SKINNER:  I don't know.  We'll find out tomorrow afternoon. 
 
Q.  Given you have to play four games in four nights, were you holding anything back tonight?  Seemed like your B game was good enough?
 
COACH AL SKINNER:  (Laughing).  You have to ask the players that.  I coached my A game.  I don't know if it looked like that, but I coached it.  You have to ask the players if they held anything back.  I don't necessarily think so.  I think you're going to come up short if you do that.  I mean, Georgetown, regardless of what their record is, physically, they're as gifted as any team in the league.  I thought they defended really well.  I thought our execution was important for us.  We didn't play as well as we could have, but it was not an easy game.  
 
Q.  Craig, you guys hold anything back?  You could have gotten the ball a lot more in the first half. 
 
CRAIG SMITH:  No, I don't think we held anything back.  They were really aggressive on the defensive end, and we just tried to run our stuff.  It was a couple turnovers here and there, but we didn't hold anything back.  
 
Q.  Craig, were you guys motivated when you heard about the women winning, four games in four days? 
 
CRAIG SMITH:  Yeah, I can speak for myself, I was very motivated.  I felt that since they stuck it out, I think we can do the same thing.  Just like Coach said, we just have to take it one game at a time.  
 
Q.  Craig, just talk to us about how you feel playing in this building.  You told me last week you were really looking forward to coming back here.  You had a monster game last year against St. John's.  Obviously, you love playing here. 
 
CRAIG SMITH:  I love playing on this floor.  It's the world's most famous arena, who wouldn't want to get a chance to play on this floor?  I just love it here.  
 
COACH AL SKINNER:  That's saying a lot from a kid that's from Los Angeles.  
 
Q.  Last time you played Syracuse, they blew it open rather quickly.  You came back, you answered it, then they blew it open again.  Seemed like three different games.  Is the goal tomorrow to just kind of keep it kind of level? 
 
COACH AL SKINNER:  Well, there's no question, the last time we played them when we made  -- particularly in the second half, when we made the comeback, we got excited and we overextended our defense and they took advantage of it.  I mean, they did a real good job of executing, took advantage of it, and bang, bang, bang, that was the ball game.  I think if nothing else, I think we're a little better ballclub.  But I think we understand now that the game is 40 minutes.  That night, we just played in spurts.  
 
Q.  It seems to be a policy if you're going to be a decoy, it's more in the first half than the second.  Is it hard for you to be patient in that situation?  Are you saying, "I know the ball is going to come to me, I have to keep plugging away here"? 
 
CRAIG SMITH:  Yeah, I just keep telling myself to keep my composure.  Obviously, in the first half, they know the ball's gonna come in to me.  Obviously, I just try to play the decoy.  Hopefully, more than likely, it opens up in the second half.   
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT