BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 5, 1998
Al Skinner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Did you feel that fatigue had anything to do at all with what happened tonight?

COACH SKINNER: Well, you know, I like to think not. But we missed a lot of layups.  I thought our rebounding wasn't what it was supposed to be.  I guess I am most disappointed about the number of layups that we missed.  And missing those layups, I think we reacted to it.  It is kind of dictating how we were going to play on defense.  And that was really the unfortunate part.  We were fighting -- kind of fighting ourselves this evening.  I am not sure fatigue was really the problem, because I didn't bother to ask them if they were tired.  But, I mean, we got some great looks at the basket, some opportunities and just -- you know, we just lost them.


Q.  Seemed like you were doing what you wanted to do, but something happened to keep it from --

COACH SKINNER: No, I mean, our execution was great. We got some great looks, got what we wanted.  Just that the ball didn't go in the basket.  Again, it does come, you know, when you have those opportunities.  It -- for this team it takes something out of them.  And if we are going to win this  basketball game, we had have those chances, because we knew we weren't going to have many opportunities.  St. John's, I think obviously they shot the ball extremely well first half.  They came out, they came out focused.  It was important for them to get the win because they hadn't had a win in the tournament.  And, you know, that first half, that is probably the best I have seen them shoot the ball this year.  And it really set the tone for them.  But, still even saying that we were still close enough, just that we continually gave up -- we missed those layups, it allowed them to create some offense and chances for baskets for themselves.


Q.  Midway through the second half, two players get their fours.  Did you feel the win leaving you?

COACH SKINNER: The thing is, you know, I just thought it was, of course, we are -- I am the coach of the team that is in foul trouble.  Foul situation was like 8 to 2.  I mean, I know that Maglos was taking the ball aggressively to the basket.  I thought there was contact on both ends.  When there is a huge advantage or for us a disadvantage, it puts them in the penalty, after that it really put us at a disadvantage.  And because of that, our defense definitely got less aggressive.  And being less aggressive against St. John's was going to make it very tough for us to win the basketball game. 


Q.  You took the seniors out at 27 seconds left.  You felt they deserved an ovation from the people?

COACH SKINNER: You know, it wasn't a home crowd. But we still have some friends and family in the audience.  I thought it gave them an opportunity to at least acknowledge, I think, the seniors.  They gave us a tremendous year this year.  People -- I mean, a lot of people didn't feel like we were going to compete in the league.  And, you know, I think we competed.  I mean, that is a great credit to the seniors, because they could have very easily not come out and give the kind of effort they gave us this year.  Most of -- for the most part, for league play, we were right there. Nobody ever thought that this team would be considering NIT with two weeks to go in the season.  So it is really a credit to the seniors that gave the effort knowing that we were shorthanded; they worked hard every day and really tried to set the tone for us.  And they did that.  You know, we knew it was going to be tough this whole year, but they hung in there and really, again, just made it a competitive year and made it extremely enjoyable for their friends and family and fans that were watching.


Q.  How difficult was it for you to pull them out to watch them leave the court for the last time for you?  You have only been with them for a year, but --

COACH SKINNER: I guess the most difficult thing is  that we just couldn't get them just a bigger acknowledgment that -- I think I am sure they were happy because of what happened with West Virginia.  But this being their last game, I really wanted them to be able to perceive a roaring round of applause.  And I was a little disappointed we couldn't get that.  But I thought it was important that we at least give them the opportunity.  Again, they have been fantastic this year.  They worked hard and gave me an opportunity to coach them.  And I think they did a good job.  We are definitely going to miss them if they were juniors and we had them for another year, we would have something to really talk about.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT