BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 12, 2004
Uka Agbai
Al Skinner
Craig Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  It seemed like it was kind of an inability to take care of the ball in the second half, which is probably the thing that led to them...
 
COACH AL SKINNER:  Yeah, there's no question about it.  We didn't handle the ball as well as we needed to in the second half.  It led to some transition baskets for them.  They weren't like they were turnovers that they had to come down and run offense.  They were turnovers that led to easy baskets.  I think we had maybe one of those all game, in the second half they had a few of those.  That was enough to make the difference.  Along with the foul on the three-point shot when the shot clock was running down.  That was a tough call, and it goes to the line and makes all three free throws.  But it's clearly the ball-handling that was the difference for us in the second half.  
 
Q.  Does fatigue play a factor in that at all? 
 
COACH AL SKINNER:  You know, I don't know if it does, if it doesn't.  I mean, it's a possibility.  But I thought at times we didn't run our stuff as well as we should have.  I thought we were, at times, impatient.  Because of being inpatient  - whereas, in the first half, I thought we were very patient and we executed well  - I thought at times in the second half we got a little bit hurried.  
 
Q.  Overall, playing them, they're a team people talk about as No. 1 seed.  What does it tell you about, in general terms, how far your team has come and know in a sense you almost beat yourself?
 
COACH AL SKINNER:  I think that's what we talked about in the locker room, understanding how good Pittsburgh is, and obviously they are a very good basketball team.  But it's an indication of the quality of basketball team that we were, and that if we can come out and learn from this experience, I don't know if we're going to find anybody that defensively is tougher than this, and if we can learn from this and handle this situation and try to grow on it, it's going to help us in the tournament, I'd like to believe.  
 
 
Q.  Craig, Pitt really didn't have an answer for you.  What were you finding that was able to make you so successful? 
 
CRAIG SMITH:  I just tried to establish myself early, especially in transition.  We get the ball rotated, and had the guy playing behind me.  I just tried to get good position basically the whole game.  
 
Q.  Craig, nine times out of ten, when you make such a strong move to the basket, you finish.  Was that just astonishing to have that last one trickle off the rim? 
 
CRAIG SMITH:  Yeah, it was kind of crazy.  I thought it was going in.  I thought I felt a little contact.  But the ref was (inaudible) plays the whole game, so...Things happen.  
 
Q.  Uka, how long does it take to get past what's obviously a disappointing game you could have won and prepare for the next step, which is almost surely going to come Sunday night? 
 
UKA AGBAI:  I believe immediately.  We just get over this.  We knew we had a chance to beat them, but we let it slip away from us.  I think we can be prepared immediately, as long as we know who we're facing in the tournament, just get ready for that, put this behind us. 
 
Q.  Any idea what seed you might be? 
 
UKA AGBAI:  No idea.  It's not up to me.  
 
CRAIG SMITH:  (Shaking his head no).  
 
Q.  Coach, did you do anything differently in this game compared to the time you played Pitt earlier in the year?
 
COACH AL SKINNER:  No, I don't think we did anything much different.  I think we've been rather consistent all year long, and obviously we got the same results.  So we needed to, maybe need to change a little something.  But, no, we've just been trying to build on what we do and what we do well.  So I don't think we did anything different.  We probably ran a couple of different sets offensively for Craig, because the sets we ran against them in Pittsburgh, they defended pretty well.    We ran some different stuff for him today to get him some looks.  Defensively, we try to do the same thing.  I just thought that defensively we got a little careless.  We didn't maintain our concentration defensively as well as we should have.  What we wanted to do and what we actually did didn't occur this evening.  
 
Q.  Question for Craig.  What are your impressions of Krauser and his willingness to tangle up anywhere with anybody? 
 
CRAIG SMITH:  He's a tough guard.  Guards from New York supposedly are supposed to be tough.  I got a piece of it today.  
 
Q.  For both guys, Uka and Craig, do you feel a sense that there was no pressure coming into this game because you guys had clearly already established yourselves as an NCAA team and whatever came today, you know, win, lose, draw, you guys were still going? 
 
UKA AGBAI:  We didn't think about it that way.  We thought about it as, "This is what's in front of us.  This is what is in the present."  We felt that we had a good opportunity to beat them.  Coming into this game, we felt like we were prepared enough, and, obviously, certain things didn't go our way and we lost the game.  We didn't feel like, "Oh, wow, this is just a game.  We'll go to the tournament, have more games to play."  No, we thought about getting this championship.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT