NCAA WOMEN'S COLLEGE WORLD SERIES
June 4, 2016
Johanna Grauer
Kelly Inouye-Perez
Kylee Perez
Mysha Sataraka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Florida State - 8, UCLA - 4   
THE MODERATOR: We'll get started with an opening statement from coach.   
KELLY INOUYE-PEREZ: First like to start by saying that was a very offensive Florida State team.  Jessica Burroughs is tough.  But I'm very proud of how the team came out.  You got to see a little bit of everything of what we're about today.  Great fight, we string things together, we had the ability to do some damage, it was exciting how we came out.  That is UCLA softball.   
Then you also got to see us defensively, we did some good things, we rolled up that double play and got ourselves out of some situations and we weren't able to get out of some other situations and it proved to be too much of a deficit for us to come back.  So we leave this season earlier or end this season earlier than I would like, but I'm very proud of this team and very proud of my players.  I told the seniors that, unfortunately, to end it this early is disappointing, but to end it on the College World Series stage is quite an accomplishment for what we have done in the second half of the season.  So, very proud of the team, very proud of their fight, we got things we got to tighten up, for the future, but I'm really excited about the experience gained and I celebrate the seniors' careers.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions?   
 Q.  What was kind going on in the pitching, you weren't able to find a rhythm today.  
JOHANNA GRAUER: Mysha does a really good job of keeping us locked on, so I actually felt like we had a pretty good rhythm her and I going along, she kept me locked on.  Defense kept me locked on and there was a few moments, like I know first, me and Kylee looked at each other and we're like, we're playing with our best friends at the Women's College World Series right now, really cool opportunity.  So it wasn't so much lack of rhythm, they were just hats off to Florida State.  They did good offensively today.   
 Q.  When you get off to a 4-0 lead, your best hitter hits a grand slam to start things off, what's going through your mind as a head coach and what are you thinking about kind of going through the rest of the came?  
KELLY INOUYE-PEREZ: I'm proud that the first inning started different than game one.  We came out with a purpose, were able to play our game, able to execute how we attack as an offense finding a way to get people on, moving them over, creating that.  And then coming up with the big hit.  Some very exciting things there.  That was probably the most impressive part of it is we came out and played our game.  That's, so I was very pleased with that.   
 Q.  With the home run, can you go through what you saw and obviously the emotion of your running the bases?  
MYSHA SATARAKA: Yeah, I just knew that credit to the first guys for getting on, that's what starts it.  If no one was on, that home run would have been a one-run home run.  So all credit to them.  I'm just trying to see the ball, just get a good cut on it and that's what I did, just kept it simple and just seeing my teammates at home plate was awesome.   
 Q.  You mentioned the second half of the season being strong.  What did you see improve in the second half of the season that gives you hope going forward?  
KELLY INOUYE-PEREZ: All parts of the game.  Offense, defense, our pitching.  All parts of the game got us there.  So we had some new people in the lineup, we had four freshmen in the lineup at one point.  We had a younger pitching staff this year and Paige wasn't in the lineup.  Brianna wasn't in the lineup.  There was several people that weren't in the lineup early in the season.   
So we got stronger, we got better, we learned how to work together as a team both offensively and defensively and we fully committed to understanding that it may be tough, but we're not going to quit fighting.  And as a result, we flipped from dropping, I think we had, I don't know how many in a row, including Florida State, we went through a series there where we just weren't playing with great confidence and then got into the PAC-12 and not only played with great confidence, had some great come from behind wins, just put all parts of our game together.  And got to the point where, for Regionals and Super Regionals, we played our best ball to the end.  It's disappointing to get here and in the be able to execute as well as we have, but getting here and beating every opponent leading up to the World Series, I'm very proud of them.  We executed as good as it gets.  And that's something that you can be very proud of to get a top eight here at the World Series.   
 Q.  When it comes to Jessica Burroughs, she came in and really put the breaks on what was a great offensive start.  What did she do so well that can shut down a team that came out firing?  
MYSHA SATARAKA: All credit to her.  She is a great pitcher.  We faced her earlier in the year.  But I think you always look back on yourself and we had going into the game a team plan and I just don't think we executed as well as we could have.  So, credit to her, but I think it's on us as well.   
 Q.  I know it's fresh, but to the three players, when you look back at the season, what do your remember or what are you most proud of?  
JOHANNA GRAUER: I think we're most proud of not having a great start to the season and pulling it together toward the end and getting here.  We came up with the phrase "Never Satisfied" and, again, we didn't start the season great, but then we all started buying into that and the season improved.   
MYSHA SATARAKA: I would say our team's fight.  Our team lost and won in all types of ways.  Come from behind, down five, mercy rules.  I just think the way that we went about the season, there's so many opportunities for us to fall and just give up kind of and I think we never did and that's how we ended up back here when a lot of people doubted us.   
KYLEE PEREZ: I agree with both of them.  In the beginning, things were a little rough for us, we had injuries, we had just a whole bunch of stuff going on on the team and our fight, like Mysha said, was something that this team really took on this year.  Whether it was WIFD, one of our sayings or "Never Satisfied."  We were just real fighters throughout the entire season.   
THE MODERATOR: All right.  Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT