US OPEN
August 31, 2019
Hyeon Chung
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
R. NADAL/H. Chung   
6-3, 6-4, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  A lot of matches here. You're still on your way back to finding your full level. How did you feel today? How did it affect you?  
HYEON CHUNG: It was very tough. Always tough to play against one of the best players in the world, but I'm just trying to do my best.   
Today is not my day, but I'm really happy to play in New York after the six months' injury.   
 Q.  What did he do that hurt you the most? What was most surprising to you about his game?  
HYEON CHUNG: Everything is surprise, because he always play amazing. So I'm just trying to playing my best in every point, but he's too good for me.   
 Q.  Since you came back on the tour, you have played many matches. Physically how do you feel now?  
HYEON CHUNG: Last few weeks I played a lot of matches in some challengers and the tour, so I'm really happy to finish the tournament without any injury. Yeah, that's good news for me.   
 Q.  How do you feel about the injury which made you miss Yokkaichi?  
HYEON CHUNG: It's fine because I just wanted to play best in New York. That's why I pulled out in Yokkaichi. So that's good.   
 Q.  How different was he from last time you played, or was his game in any way different the way he played you?  
HYEON CHUNG: I think we never play in outdoor hard court, so a little bit different. But he always playing in the forehand baseline. So I'm just trying to keep moving forward. Yeah, it's tough to make play all the time.   
 Q.  Is this your first center court playing?  
HYEON CHUNG: It was first time on Ashe, yeah.   
 Q.  I think you are now recovering your confidence now. How did you feel today?  
HYEON CHUNG: I'm really happy to play in Ashe against great player, Rafa. So I hope playing better next time.   
 Q.  You have been really unlucky with the injuries throughout the past few years. Are you more confident now that things are going to be better? Have you done some changes in the way you train and the way you prepare? Is there something that you believe you can do to try to stay healthy for longer periods of time?  
HYEON CHUNG: Yeah, I have last year, I have, like, foot problem. That's what I trying to fix. Like, I trying to make special insole. The fit helping me a lot, but that's make me, like, back problem because that change a little bit my body. So I have to take the time -- that's why I have six-month injury. Then after that it feels all good.   
 Q.  Do you believe that now the sole thing is working better for you and it's not going to give you the back problem anymore? Has it been fixed?  
HYEON CHUNG: I hope, because I think I'm still young, so I have enough time to stay on the tour.   
 Q.  He's playing a little more aggressively, people have said. When he's playing his best on hard court, like at Indian Wells, it's when he's coming forward. Do you sense that, that he's coming in more, putting more pressure?  
HYEON CHUNG: I think so because I have a lot of pressure from him. It's always tough to play, like, good baseline, yeah.   
 Q.  Kristie Ahn, of course she's American but her parents are Korean. Do you know her?  
HYEON CHUNG: Oh, I didn't know that. I haven't talked to her before, so...   
 Q.  What's your plan now for the rest of the season? Have you set yourself an objective for the next three months, six months, a year, whatever?  
HYEON CHUNG: I'm not sure yet anything. But I'm just trying to stay healthy until the season is over, so this is my first plan.   
 Q.  What are you going to play next?  
HYEON CHUNG: I think next schedule is -- everyone is playing Asian, so for me, too. Yeah.   
 Q.  As someone who hasn't seen you in some time, your English seems quite a bit better. Have you been studying at all?  
HYEON CHUNG: I'm still studying in Korea. I have six months, so that's enough time, like, two hours a week with English teacher. I'm still working with her.   
 Q.  First NextGen champion. Do you have some conversation, friendship with the others now?  
HYEON CHUNG: We grew up all together on the tour, 14, juniors. I'm really happy to be part of that group. They're playing really well so far. I'm just really happy to see them playing well, yeah.   
 Q.  Now you're playing in Tokyo or Beijing this year?  
HYEON CHUNG: I think I want to play in Tokyo. I like to play in Japan.   
 Q.  How much are you thinking about the Olympics? How important are the Olympics next year? You're representing Korea.  
HYEON CHUNG: I don't know, but I never play Olympics before. If I have chance to play Olympics, for sure I want to play Olympics.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT