ROLAND GARROS
June 4, 2017
Hyeon Chung
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. NISHIKORI/H. Chung
7-5, 6-4, 6-7, 0-6, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. How was your experience playing against No. 1 Asian player in a Grand Slam big stadium?
HYEON CHUNG: It was great honor to play with Kei.  He's a great player in the world.
And today was tough match against Kei.  It was really fast and good stroke.  But I tried my best and maybe I'm waiting for another day.
Q. What happened last point, match point?  You double fault.
HYEON CHUNG: What does mean what happened for double fault?
Q. Did you feel a little negative or something like that?
HYEON CHUNG: Sorry?  You mean I'm nervous or something like that?
Q. Negative.
HYEON CHUNG: No.  I'm just trying to stay calm, but is, I think, a little nervous.  And, yes, something.
Q. Did you want to continue to play yesterday?
HYEON CHUNG: Anyway, it's okay for me, because I have to play five set against Kei.  So it's okay.  But if I play yesterday, maybe better for me.  It's not sure.
Q. You are about the same age as Alexander Zverev.  How much of an inspiration is it for you to see him developing like this in the last few months?
HYEON CHUNG: Well, he's really good player in Lyon, in NextGen ATP.  And I was playing him on the tour in juniors.  So I'm looking for him and I want to be there with him.
Q. Obviously, it was a difficult way to finish the match, but what can you take from it going forward?  This has been your best performance at a Grand Slam so far.  So what sort of lessons have you learned from this week in Paris?
HYEON CHUNG: Yeah, it's great experience in Paris.  I make third round first time in Grand Slam.  And maybe I have more experience and I have to enjoy.  I'm looking forward to another Grand Slam.
Q. Going back to yesterday, so you lost second set, and then how did you manage to regroup yourself and how did you manage to play that good in the third set and beginning of the fourth set?
HYEON CHUNG: I lose first two set, and then I'm just thinking I want to lose not easy to Kei.  And I'm just trying to my best all the points in the courts.  And all the time I'm trying to stay calm.  And that's the key.
Q. Did you change any strategies or did you find out some solution against playing Kei?
HYEON CHUNG: I didn't change, but all the time I trying to stay same and all the time I'm trying to fight.
Q. Do you feel that interest in tennis in general and in you as a person and as a player is increasing in your home country?
HYEON CHUNG: In my country tennis is not popular yet.  So I want to make more popular in Korea, I hope.
Q. Did you find some difference between yesterday two sets of Nishikori from today's two sets?
HYEON CHUNG: I think he trying to more -- more trying to hit hard, I think, and he trying to make more fight today.
Q. Because yesterday he called the trainer.
HYEON CHUNG: Yeah.
Q. You found some difference physically?
HYEON CHUNG: For me?
His condition.  I don't know.  I don't know his condition.  I think he looks good.
Q. How did you spend your time after the suspended game until this morning?
HYEON CHUNG: After that, I just get massage, and eat dinner, and some rest, and ready for today.  That's all.
Q. Can you tell us what is your relationship with clay, especially in South Korea.  Are there many clay courts?
HYEON CHUNG: In Korea everyone likes Kei because he is number one is Asia, and everyone like Kei.
Q. Have you got some regrets for today, for the play of today?  And secondary what is your goal for the ranking at the end of the year?
HYEON CHUNG: The ranking, the goal, I don't think that much.  But I want to break my highest ranking.  So maybe I want to make top 50 first, and then maybe if I make top 50 and then change again.
Q. What about regrets for today?  Have you some regrets for the second part of the match of today, some regrets of some points or some way to stay in the court, or you have no regrets?
HYEON CHUNG: I'm just trying to same as yesterday.  So I don't know.
Q. My question was about the clay surface.  This year you played very well on clay.
HYEON CHUNG: Yeah, I don't know why I play good in this year.  So I'm just trying to focus on the court and trying to enjoy all the time on the court.  I think that's first thing.
Q. I just want to make sure.  You have two coaches, right?
HYEON CHUNG: Yeah.
Q. And you change one of them?
HYEON CHUNG: Yeah.
Q. Why did you change the coach?
HYEON CHUNG: Here is two coach here, yeah.  He have to go back to Korea.  One coach have to go back home.  So that's all.
Q. Did you have any extra motivation playing against Kei?  He's also from the IMG Academy and he's a neighbor country.
HYEON CHUNG: Sorry?
Q. Did you have any extra motivation yesterday and today?
HYEON CHUNG: I don't understand.  Sorry.
Q. Extra motivation.  Any special feeling?  Any good energy?
HYEON CHUNG: Of course.  I haven't play Kei before, never practice.  So great experience for me and great honor to play against Kei.  So maybe I want to be better next time.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT