BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 15, 2018
Hyeon Chung
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








R. FEDERER/H. Chung
7-5, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Just talk about coming back in that first set and then Roger breaks to win that first set.  It was very tight, wasn't it?
HYEON CHUNG: First set I have few chance to win, but he play really good in first set.  However, I'm just great experience last two weeks.  I'm really happy.
Q. Do you think that volley you missed in the first game of the second set is where the match ran away from you?
HYEON CHUNG: Sorry?
Q. Do you think that volley on the break point, the break point in the first game of the second set, was where the match kind of ran away from you?
HYEON CHUNG: I don't think so.  Can happen in the match, so I'm just trying to focus at the time.
Q. What do you think you did well to get back in the first set?  Down 3-0.
HYEON CHUNG: I was down one break, and I'm just trying to stay, like, calm and I'm just trying to learn from Roger.  And I come back, like, 5-All, and he played good.  7-5, 6-1.  I'm really happy to play against Roger.
Q. What was it like on the court tonight compared to some of the atmosphere you experienced at the Australian Open?
HYEON CHUNG: I think all the fans love Roger's play, so I'm just trying -- I'm trying to play my tennis all the time against Roger.  So I'm just really happy.
Q. No, I mean the crowd and the noise.  What was that like comparing to Australia?
HYEON CHUNG: I think the same.  Nothing different.
Q. Your serve, you serve with your feet very close to each other, and that's something that not many players do.  Have you always served like that, or something that you change?
HYEON CHUNG: Last preseason I have new coach, so I'm just trying to get better all the time.  So we trying to change a little bit.
Q. So did you get them closer?
HYEON CHUNG: Yeah, I'm a little bit closer.
Q. Do you feel better now?
HYEON CHUNG: Yeah, I'm getting better.
Q. You're going to be Asian No. 1 in the ranking next week.  What does it mean to you?
HYEON CHUNG: I'm really honored to be, No. 1 in Asian.  And Kei is playing really good and great player in the world, and I hope he playing good this year.
I'm just playing -- I'm just, I don't know.  I'm just happy.
Q. What's the tough part about playing Federer?  I mean, he does so many things well, but what do you find difficult playing against him?
HYEON CHUNG: I don't know.  He play just really good serve, good volley, good baseline, like, motion.  So I don't know.
Q. Beginning of the year, you must have set some goals.  Now we know you have been No. 1 Korean player for a long time.  Now No. 1 Asian player.  What's the next step for you?
HYEON CHUNG: First goal in this year, I want to stay without injury on the tour.  And second goal, I'm just trying to -- I don't know.  I'm just -- maybe I have to make second goal (smiling).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT