BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 14, 2018
Hyeon Chung
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








H. CHUNG/P. Cuevas
6-1, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What are your thoughts on today?  Up 6-1, 5-Love, got back into it fractionally.  At that stage did you get a bit concerned, but closed it off pretty well again?
HYEON CHUNG: Yeah, it was a really tough match against Pablo.  I have a lot of chance to finish, like, 6-1, 5-Love up.  I have few match points but start windy and he playing good.  So I'm just happy to win 6-3.
Q. How much of a factor was the wind out there at the end of the match?
HYEON CHUNG: First few games it was okay, but last few games start windy, and, like, start hard.  Not easy to play with the wind, but I'm just trying to focus all the time.
Q. How do you explain the success you have had so far this year?  Is something feeling different in your game?  Is it just experience?  Just things coming together for you?
HYEON CHUNG: I don't know.  I'm just start new team this year with Godwin Neville, and he made me trying to enjoy on the court.  And we start last preseason we working serve a little bit.  And I trying to (indiscernible) all the players.
Q. With that new team, what are the dynamics that are working well for you?
HYEON CHUNG: We just trying to little bit serve a little bit and the physicality and everything, the mentally, and just trying to enjoy on the court all the time.
Q. Most successful Korean player before you was Hyung-taik Lee, and he was watching your match the other night.  Did you know that?
HYEON CHUNG: Yeah.
Q. You gave him a ticket?
HYEON CHUNG: No.
Q. Have you talked to him after Australian Open?
HYEON CHUNG: I didn't talk with him last few years, but I know he's staying in U.S.  So I met him, like, two days ago, and he's really good friends with me.
Q. At this point we don't know who you are going to play next, but with Roger it would be kind of like a rematch of Australian Open.  What kind of a match do you expect and what are you going to play this time?
HYEON CHUNG: He have to play against Chardy later.  But I don't know, if I play him, I'm just trying to 100% my tennis, for sure, because he play great tennis.  I'm just trying to focus my match tomorrow.
Q. Of course last time you played against him you were not 100% physically, but what did you learn from that match in Australia and how are you going to use this in the next matchup?
HYEON CHUNG: He playing really good this year so far, as well, so I don't know.  Just playing really fast and good serve, good baseline.  He play everything good, so I'm just trying to -- I don't know.  I'm just trying to enjoy on the court.
Q. Since your win in Milan last year, how is the pressure for you?  Are you feeling it or are you just taking the strides you're making with your game and that's not really affecting you?
HYEON CHUNG: I'm playing good this year.  So far nothing pressure.  So I'm just really happy to play good every tournament, so I'm just -- I hope playing good so far.
Q. Did you watch or even go to any of the Olympics?
HYEON CHUNG: I was there in opening ceremony in PyeongChang, so I'm really happy to watch ice-skating.  I like to support the Korean team.
Q. What was the feeling?  What went through your mind during the opening ceremony?
HYEON CHUNG: Just really proud that my country has Olympics in my country, so I'm just really happy.
Q. It's so rare to see a player wearing glasses.  Did you ever try contact lenses?
HYEON CHUNG: When I start tennis, I playing with the glasses, so I'm really happy to play with the glasses.  I don't need to play with the contact lens.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT