AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 26, 2018
Hyeon Chung
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
R. FEDERER/H. Chung   
6-1, 5-2 (ret.)   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Are you able to update us on what the injury was?  
STUART DUGUID: I can answer for him.   
It's like worse than regular blisters.  Over the last few days, it was blister under blister under blister.  He had it shaved off.  Now it's red raw.  They tried injections to see if it numbed the pain.  It didn't work.  Much worse than a regular blister.   
 Q.  What causes that?  
STUART DUGUID: I think a lot of players get callouses.  As they go along, they shave them down.  Because he has played so many matches in the row, I think that's why it was a buildup.  I think that's how they started.   
Is that correct?   
HYEON CHUNG: Yes.   
 Q.  Must be tough not to be able to fight for your first semifinal of a Grand Slam.  What is your feeling or the now?  
HYEON CHUNG: Many things come together because I retiring in semis.  But I think I did right thing.  If I play bad thing on the court, it's not good for the fans and audience as well.   
I'm happy to be able to make semis in Grand Slam.  I want to be stronger next year.   
 Q.  Did you enjoy the atmosphere?  
HYEON CHUNG: I enjoyed two weeks so far, on court and off court.  I'm just really happy.   
 Q.  How much pain were you in tonight?  
HYEON CHUNG: I don't know.  I really hurt.  I can't walk no more, so...   
 Q.  Roger won the toss and elected to return, you to serve.  Did that catch you by surprise at all?  
HYEON CHUNG: No, it's nothing.   
 Q.  Did you gain more confidence from this tournament?  
HYEON CHUNG: For sure.  I play really good in last two weeks.  I make first round 16, quarters and semis.  I play Sascha, Novak, Roger.  I really good experience in last two weeks.   
I think I can play better and better in the future.   
 Q.  Roger said he didn't come to the net that often because of your situation.  Did you realize he didn't come to the net and stayed at the baseline?  
HYEON CHUNG: No.  I think he just really playing good in baseline, in the net, wherever.  I'm just trying to focus, but my feet is not working good.  I don't know.   
 Q.  What was it like out there with the great Roger Federer?  Do you feel like you belong here now at this high level?  
HYEON CHUNG: Really honored to play with Roger in semis in Grand Slam.  I'm just learn a lot.  He play really good today.  I'm just play few more in the future.   
 Q.  Can I ask what did you learn?  
HYEON CHUNG: I think lot of confidence.  I play lot of good player in last two weeks.  I can play, like, more comfortable on the court with the great players like Roger.  I think I can play better next time.   
 Q.  What is your goal for this year now that you've already been to a Grand Slam semis?  
HYEON CHUNG: I don't know.  I really don't know I'm going to make it in semis.  I think I already make few goals, because in Korea, like, I make highest ranking in Korea, highest result in Grand Slam.  I made two goals.  Next goal is I want to finish the season without injury.  I have to good recovery, so...   
 Q.  When you woke up this morning, did you feel pain?  Did you feel like maybe you could not play today?  
HYEON CHUNG: I don't think about I'm not going to play today.  I going to play on the court.  I can't finish the match, so I can't play any more.   
 Q.  How can you protect your position in the future, be more consistent?  
HYEON CHUNG: I'm just trying to enjoy all the time.  I'm just trying my best in the future.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT