AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 24, 2018
Hyeon Chung
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
H. CHUNG/T. Sandgren   
6-4, 7-6, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You must be very happy.  Tell us what you were thinking in the process of this match, when things were going fine.  
HYEON CHUNG: Today match was really tough because we play 1:00.  We know how to play each other.  We play last week in Auckland.   
But I'm just trying to keep focus on the court and enjoy.  That's the key for today.   
 Q.  In the last game, for instance, you looked very calm.  What is going on inside?  Are you feeling that calm?  What are you feeling inside?  
HYEON CHUNG: I think last game many things come together.  If I win one more point, I make history in Korea.  Something I thinking like that.  I have to think about the ceremony, something.   
Anyway, I have to stay calm because the finish -- the match is not finish yet, so I'm just trying to stay calm until finish the match.   
 Q.  Sometime last year, year before, you were telling us about how you're learning English, a friend is teaching you.  Can you compare that with tennis, what has been easier?  How difficult has it been for you to express yourself?  
HYEON CHUNG: Yeah, I'm trying to learn English, the interview first.  I studying interview with him.  I'm just trying.   
 Q.  With your friend?  
HYEON CHUNG: Yes.   
 Q.  Who is he?  
HYEON CHUNG: He's David Chung.  He's living in Chicago, yeah.  He helping me a lot in the tour, yeah.   
 Q.  How are you feeling after the great match against Djokovic physically and mentally?  Some difference you feel?  
HYEON CHUNG: I think I'm not tired because I win.  When I win the match against top player, never tired.  Just happy, no?  Mentally happy, nothing tired.   
 Q.  How does the quest to learn English parallel with improving your tennis?  Which is harder or easier?  
HYEON CHUNG: I think the same.  I think 50/50.   
 Q.  Over the past few years we have seen a phenomenal growth of Asian players in the singles, something which we have not seen a lot before.  What do you think has brought about this change?  
HYEON CHUNG: I don't know.  Because they playing good.  The first player is Kei Nishikori playing top 10 already.  So we all Asian players looking for Kei and we trying to follow him.  He's the pride of Asian player.   
 Q.  Are they showing your matches in Korea live on TV?  Have you heard how many people have been watching you?  
HYEON CHUNG: I think all the people is watching Australian Open now because we make history in Korea, so...   
 Q.  We saw in Milan when you were winning very consistent service, very good defense.  We saw the same today.  Do you feel you are in the same flow, same energy, very consistent game?  
HYEON CHUNG: Yeah, I'm just trying to play like same all the time.  Yeah, I'm just trying to fight 100%.   
 Q.  I think you come to the net quite often compared to last year or even a few months ago.  Is this something you're trying to do?  
HYEON CHUNG: Yeah, I'm just trying to work on playing on the net.  In the pre-season and all the time when I practice, I'm just trying to playing more in the net.  If I going to the net, I can save more energy, so...   
 Q.  Last year in Milan you told us not many people recognize you in Korea.  How about now?  Do you think you are more famous in Korea?  
HYEON CHUNG: I think sure, yeah.  Getting better and better all the time now.   
 Q.  Do you consider the Australian Open the Grand Slam of the Asia-Pacific?  If so, does it make your performance here any more special?  
HYEON CHUNG: I think so, yeah.   
 Q.  Which is the tournament you have been dreaming of when you were a kid?  Wimbledon?  Australian Open?  US Open?  
HYEON CHUNG: I think Australian Open because Novak and Tsonga playing in Australian Open finals.  Novak playing first final I think in Grand Slam.  I'm just saw his match.   
 Q.  How many sponsors do you have?  Do you think your agent will be very busy after the tournament?  
HYEON CHUNG: I hope.  I hope they busy, yeah (smiling).   
 Q.  How many sponsors?  Which sponsors do you have?  
HYEON CHUNG: Now I have Lacoste, IMG, Samsung, Rado, Yonex.   
 Q.  What are your thoughts on facing either Roger Federer or Tomas Berdych in the semis?  
HYEON CHUNG: They're two really good players, so I don't know who's going to win.  If someone I play, I'm just trying to do my best.   
 Q.  Are you surprised by what you have done in this tournament?  
HYEON CHUNG: Yeah, I'm really surprised because I really don't know.  I make semis, I beat like Sascha, Novak, the other good players.  I never playing in second week in Grand Slam, so I'm really surprised.   
 Q.  How are you going to prepare for your next match?  The next 24 hours, what are you going to do?  
HYEON CHUNG: First I have to really good recovery because I have to play semis in Grand Slam.  I'm just trying to play same so far tournament.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT