NEXT GEN ATP FINALS
November 11, 2017
Hyeon Chung
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
H. CHUNG/A. Rublev   
3-4, 4-3, 4-2, 4-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Congratulations.  What do you think?  What's going through your head now since the win?  
HYEON CHUNG: I'm just really, really happy, because, I don't know, I really don't know I'm going to make winning here in Milan.  I'm just really happy, because really tough match tonight against Rublev.  He better than last time.  So I'm just trying to play my best.   
 Q.  Congrats for your tournament.  You have won all matches.  At 3-2 down, what's change in your mind and your game?  
HYEON CHUNG: Nothing change in my mind.  He playing really good in second set and first set, so I'm just trying to come -- I'm just waiting for one chance, and I got the one chance and I got the second set.  One set all, and I'm playing better in third set and fourth.   
 Q.  I don't know if you know, you're the first South Korean singles player to win a title since 2003.  I wonder if you know Hyung-taik Lee?  Do you remember that era?  Do you remember him playing?  
HYEON CHUNG: Yeah, I training sometime with him.  When I play in Davis Cup, he is playing captain, so I'm just training with him.  Great honor to play with him, and, yeah.   
 Q.  Have you heard from him this week, then?  If you trained with him, if you played with him, have you heard from him?  
HYEON CHUNG: No.   
 Q.  You already said something about after losing the first set he's playing so well.  Did you have any particular plan to change the course of the match?  
HYEON CHUNG: When he played really good in first set and second set, so I'm just trying to playing lot of down line, because I'm playing a lot of crosscourt first set and second set, so I didn't play really good in first set and second set.  I'm just trying to hit down the line, and I'm just trying to make him run.  I playing better and better.   
 Q.  Rublev said you are mentally so strong and that he was cracked at a certain stage.  You don't have any moment that you feel weak mentally during the match?  
HYEON CHUNG: After lose first set, and second set I was down one break, and that moment I really nervous, I'm really angry, but I have to trying to poker face, because I know he also nervous in finals.  So if I lose second set, I'm going to be more angry, but however, I have to stay poker face.  I'm trying to make my imaging as I have really good strong mentally.  I'm trying to make my image.   
 Q.  I'm curious to know if you found some inspiration from Djokovic's game?  In particular on your backhand.  
HYEON CHUNG: No, I'm just -- I like to watch his playing, because he play really good in baseline and everything, so I'm just trying to play my tennis.  I just like to watch his playing.   
(Questions in Korean.)   
 Q.  Would you say it's the perfect way as a springboard for 2018?  And also, how do you plan to celebrate?  
HYEON CHUNG: Celebrate?  Maybe after back home with friends and with the family all together.  Yeah, that's all.   
 Q.  Congratulations.  Before this tournament, your last match was against Rafa Nadal.  Then you came here and win every match.  Thinking about the next year and the future, which is the difference between you and players like Nadal?  
HYEON CHUNG: I have play Rafa before, like, two times.  So great experience playing with him, because he great player in the world.   
So if I playing next year with him, I'm going to trying to -- maybe I have to playing with him, always I have to playing 100%.   
 Q.  You talked about working with your psychologist in Korea.  What is, like, an example, something you do with her that has helped you on court, like, a mental exercise, mental drill, something like that?  
HYEON CHUNG: The coach say all the time, first say always trying to stay calm and trying to, when you angry and make things nervous, you have to trying to poker face and trying to find something to win.  So if you win, you have more chance to play better and better.  Yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT