NEXT GEN ATP FINALS
November 10, 2017
Hyeon Chung
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
H. CHUNG/D. Medvedev   
4-1, 4-1, 3-4, 1-4, 4-0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  It was a fantastic match.  How hard it was when Medvedev was coming back in the third and the fourth set?  
HYEON CHUNG: It was really tough match tonight against Medvedev.  We never played before, so didn't know how to play.  But I know he has good serves so I have to block and return good.  That is working good, as well.   
And I have few chance in third set, break first, but he playing really good in third and fourth, so I have to stay strong until finish.  I'm just trying to hold my best.   
 Q.  You're 4-0.  Congratulations.  
HYEON CHUNG: Thank you.   
 Q.  Have you thought if you finish 5-0, you'll be the undefeated finalist, the check, the trophy, have you let your mind drift to that quite yet?  
HYEON CHUNG: Maybe, for sure, but on the court, no.  I have to focus on the match.  So after the win the match and I think about prize money and trophy, I get the first trophy in the ATP, so I have to finish the match first and nothing else.   
 Q.  You saved 27 out of 35 break points.  That's a lot of chances in this format, as well.  How do you kind of explain that?  You must be pretty happy with that.  
HYEON CHUNG: I didn't know, so...  Because if all the players lose the service game, I think it's gonna over the set, so we have to stay focused on every ball.  I think that's why I serve every points.   
 Q.  Will you have a look back at the first match with Rublev during this week?  
HYEON CHUNG: Maybe.  I don't know.  Maybe.  Is already 12:00, so I have to sleep first and think about later (smiling).  I'm trying to do my best because tomorrow is my last day, so, yeah.   
 Q.  You have demonstrated very mental power, very mental strength this evening.  Is it thanks to your mental coach and your training with your mental coach?  
HYEON CHUNG: I have a mental coach in Korea.  The coach playing tennis on the tour before, so she know how to play on the tour.  We talk about all the time together.   
 Q.  What was your state of mind when fifth set is starting?  Because first game of fifth set is really tough one, and you are coming back very strong.  
HYEON CHUNG: After lose third set and fourth set, he played good, but I played really nervous because I want to finish the match.  But when I start fifth set, I'm just think about I have to play my tennis, so I'm just trying to make him move.   
 Q.  What would winning your first title in this kind of tournament against your peers and claiming, yeah, you're the best NextGen player on the ATP Tour mean to you?  
HYEON CHUNG: I'm so great honor to be part of all the great players in here, so I'm just -- I don't know.   
 Q.  I guess, what would winning tomorrow, being your first title, what would that mean to you?  
HYEON CHUNG: I think -- I don't think win tomorrow, but if I win tomorrow, I'm just really happy.  So I'm finish the season with a win.  I think start better next year.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT