OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 9, 2009
Minea Blomqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Are you feeling good today? 
 MINEA BLOMQVIST: Yeah, feeling good today. My boyfriend was going to get in The European Tour event this week, and he was first reserve and then he decided not to go and he was caddying for me. 
 You know, it was just great to have him caddying. I mean, in Italy he was caddying there, and we had a tough time there.
 I was hitting a little better today but using his help.

 Q. Did he give you the lines? 
 MINEA BLOMQVIST: More with the shot, just basic thing like last hole I wanted to hit 6 and he said, it's definitely 5, and it was a good shot but it was still short. You know, just basic things. 

 Q. Club selection?
 MINEA BLOMQVIST: Yeah, and being clear with the wind and everything. 

 Q. How did you finish up in the end? 
 MINEA BLOMQVIST: I played 3-under at the front nine, and then even par the back nine. A couple of bogeys, No. 4 and 8. 

 Q. What's the plan now? This is your last Tour event for a few months; right? 
 MINEA BLOMQVIST: Yeah, for six, seven months. 

 Q. So are you going to go home to Finland for Christmas? 
 MINEA BLOMQVIST: Yeah, I'm going home for Christmas and then we have to see how my boyfriend's plans go with The European Tour schedule, if he can get in the tournaments in early January. 

 Q. Is he playing? Is he a Member of The European Tour? 
 MINEA BLOMQVIST: He has the category 13 I think, so maybe he can play like 13 events next year. So we have to see a little bit. 
 I might just stay -- I'm already feeling a little bit heavy out there. I have my coach with me and he was helping me to just, you know, hit the ball a little bit more solid, so it was just a little bit easier today.

 Q. Who is your coach? 
 MINEA BLOMQVIST: A Finnish guy, Timo, same guy. 

 Q. So any things that you will change for tomorrow? 
 MINEA BLOMQVIST: No, just go practise now and hit a couple of shots on the range and just feel good tomorrow. 

 Q. What's the key to a low round? 
 MINEA BLOMQVIST: What's the key? The greens are very good. They are very fast and holding the lines very good. So, you know, putting is always -- but it's quite long so just play yourself in good position. 
 The one thing is there is not that much rough so even if you miss it in the rough, it's not that bad. 
 But you know, there are so many good holes out there that gives you a chance, that you have to hit proper, good golf shots. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT