GINN OPEN
April 18, 2008
Minea Blomqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Minea, thanks for coming in. Great round out there today. You're in the hunt for the weekend. You talked just outside about being able to sleep in now a little bit tomorrow.   
 MINEA BLOMQVIST: Yeah.  
 THE MODERATOR: How did you play today?   
 MINEA BLOMQVIST: Yeah, I just said -- about the sleeping in, I was just talking with my caddie in the morning. And I said I like being like top 30, because then you get always the tee times like 9:00. So it's pretty nice.   
 This week I'm staying home, five minutes away. My coach and my boyfriend and my parents are here. I have a great fan club here.   
 This week I haven't been hitting that good, like two weeks, and my coach came this week and he just said to me, Let's try get it better day by day. So I think that made me very patient out there. I was just trying and I didn't get mad with any shots. I was like okay, just try. It will come better. So I think that gave me great attitude.  
 THE MODERATOR: We spoke in Phoenix a couple weeks back and you said your game is finally coming around, and you had a top 5 finish there. Talk about your game this year and how you've been feeling all year.  
 MINEA BLOMQVIST: Obviously I started with my coach one year ago, and I have been focusing more with my swing. I think my swinging is much better and it's getting easier. You know, I understand a little bit about it.   
 Like few years ago I didn't have a clue what's going on with my swing. I was just focusing on the mental stuff and trying to stay positive all the time. But now I feel that I have improved a lot with my swing and it's easier and it's fun to hit different shots. I can try to hit some different shots.   
 So I mean, I just enjoy it right now a lot. Like I said in Phoenix, I took my old caddie back who started with me two years ago. We have had a great time. We both learned a lot about those two years, because I was being a kid a little bit. I didn't -- I was a little bit unpatient on the golf course and I was getting mad and stuff like that.   
 Andy was maybe -- he didn't trust himself that much, so I think we're both very calm on the golf course right now. We try to make good decision and clever decisions, and I think we have got so much better.  
  
  Q. What is his name?  
 MINEA BLOMQVIST: Andy Techmeier.  
  
  Q. What is it you're working on in your golf swing?  
 MINEA BLOMQVIST: You know, it's more like I have got very quick always in my backswing, but it has been more like -- - you know, I just straightaway take in inside and kind of get stuck.   
 So now we have been trying to get me playing a little bit and maybe start, you know, that my club face starts straightaway releasing and that I don't stay like that. You know, it's small things.   
  
  Q. You live close by?  
 MINEA BLOMQVIST: Yeah, Champion's Bay. Five minutes.  
  
  Q. What are the advantages and disadvantages of playing when you're so close to home?  
 MINEA BLOMQVIST: I have been actually living here just like three weeks. But it's fun, because like I said, I have my family here and my boyfriend, parents, coach. So it's kind of homey feeling. It's more fun.   
 Some weeks get so boring and, you know, you stay in a hotel. Actually this year I have had -- every tournament I've had great time, so it's kind of fun.   
  
  Q. No disadvantages at all?  
 MINEA BLOMQVIST: Of course, you know. Because you have some homey feeling, you know, just makes it more fun. I just moved in like January. Like I said, I have been there three weeks. Every day I have a lot of IKEA stuff, so every evening I have something to do: Put those things together.   
  
  Q. Because the course is playing with a lot of low scores out there the first two days, does that change the strategy going into the weekend? Do you have to be more aggressive than usual, or do you just try to stay with the same plan?  
 MINEA BLOMQVIST: I try to stay with the same plan. I'm pretty accuracy player anyway. Like I like to go for it. If it's 125 and it's between 8 and 9, I probably take 8 try to work it there, you know?   
 But I think this golf course you still have to be smart. The greens are very fast, so you want to be in the right side. So my caddie tries to give me, you know, tries to support me with playing smart a little bit.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT