U.S. OPEN
August 31, 1993
Olivier Delaitre
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q. How surprised were you on that second set to beat a guy
like Edberg like that?

 OLIVIER DELAITRE:  Me too.

 Q. Did you see that coming at all; how did that happen?

 OLIVIER DELAITRE:  I think at the moment of the match Edberg
was not physically as strong, I mean, he was a little bit tired
and when I break him once and another time, I think he didn't
play the rest of the set, so 6-Love or 6-1, it doesn't matter
anyway.

 Q. Was this a little bit better than you feel-- a little bit
better about it than last year against Stich in the first round
there too?

 OLIVIER DELAITRE:  Last year it was windy.  It was very, very
windy, and, yeah, on the Stadium it is very difficult, because
the crowd is speaking, moving a lot of times and you have to keep
all the time the ball, the eyes on the ball, so you lose your
concentration.  You can get a break and then the set is over.
 Last year maybe I was a little bit nervous, more nervous than
this year.  This year the first four game or five game I was nervous
as last year, but I tried to relax and tried to play my best and
it works.

 Q. How close did you think you came to winning?

 OLIVIER DELAITRE:  Well, I think when I had the set point in
the third set, I make a very good return and he made a good volley
and I made a lob and I tried -- I have two choice, because I was
ready to take the ball and I said, okay, passing shot or lob.
 And I make the lob and he went out.  So I had my chance, I didn't
take it.  So that is life anyway.

 Q. The lob was only a little bit long. When you hit it, did
you think that it had a good chance?

 OLIVIER DELAITRE:  Yeah, but the wind was against me, so I think,
yeah, it is going to put pressure on me. Maybe he is going to
move it a little close to the net, so I tried the lobs with the
wind, maybe it can help me, but the wind stopped and the ball
goes out, so, bad luck.  But I have another breakpoint in the
final set, so he made a very good first serve, but that is life.
 That is life.

 Q. Usually when a player like that loses the third set like
you did a lot of times in the fourth set they go down pretty easily.
 Were you not that disappointed or did you still feel like you
could win the match?

 OLIVIER DELAITRE:  Well, you don't play so many U.S. Open in
your life, and you play the defending champion on Stadium and
you play well.  Why should I think or say, okay, I lost the third
set.  It is two sets, one down.  Why should I say, thank you very
much.  See you next year.  No, I have to take my chance and to
keep going and try to do something and it happened in the fourth
set.  I won because he made 3 doublefaults at the right moment,
and I still think I have a good chance to win, but even in the
last game I was 15-40 up, so he play much better than me at the
right moment.

 Q. Thank you.    


 End of FastScripts....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT