FORD CHAMPIONSHIP AT DORAL
March 5, 2003
Jack Nicklaus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  How we doing guys?

JACK NICKLAUS: All of these people here for an old man?

 Q.  Yes, sir.
Q: Have you ever played in the pro-am with Dan Marino before?

JACK NICKLAUS: Yes.


Q.  How is he?

JACK NICKLAUS: Dan is a nice player.  I played with Don before.  He is 
a nice player.  And as a matter of fact, I think, I won with Don here one year.  
Sure, we played, we have had a good time. 


Q.  Where are you playing this year?  Is this the kind of a test 
rehearsal for Augusta? 

JACK NICKLAUS: Well, I would never call Doral a test rehearsal for 
anything.  I call Doral, Doral.  I played here because I felt like my body last 
year was so bad that I couldn't play anything.  I started playing a little bit this 
year, and I said if I'm thinking about Augusta, or the Memorial Tournament, or 
if I'm thinking about anything, why wait until I can see if I can play golf again. 
So I decided to play here, a golf course that I like, and a golf course that I 
always enjoyed.  I have always been treated nicely here, close to home.  So 
why not.  I don't know if I will shoot a pair of 80's or a pair of 65's.  The latter is 
probably not too likely.  I just wanted to go play.


Q.  How has the weight affected your game?

JACK NICKLAUS: Well, I'm sure the weight has something to do with it.  
The dietary thing that I'm on, I have this gal, she is here in Miami, Ricky 
Williams has done the same thing, Grant Hill has done the same thing.  It's my 
own natural anti-inflammatories are working.  I'm not by any means out of 
hurting, but I'm not hurting very much.  I think it's because of this program that 
I'm on with her.  Weight has been a byproduct of it, and I fell good, and I feel 
like it's time to play a little bit of golf.  I don't ever expect to beat the world at 63 
but I'm having fun.


Q.  Is it fun, Jack, to be playing with your son, or at least try to qualify 
with your son?

JACK NICKLAUS: Gary?   Doral was nice enough to give Gary an 
exemption, when he was down here playing I said it's obviously a factor in my 
decision, they gave him the exception a month ago or so.  After playing the 
last couple of weeks on the SENIOR TOUR, excuse me, the CHAMPIONS 
TOUR, I thought that you know, why not.  I'm going to come down here and 
watch him any way, why not play.


Q.  How do you feel physically?

JACK NICKLAUS: I probably feel about 60 percent which is probably 
about as good as I'm going to feel at my age.  I think that nobody has every felt 
100%.  But that's better then 10 percent than I felt last year which is pretty 
good.  I feel good.  I feel fine. 


Q.  Any comments on the new sponsorship, Ford, is this good for the 
tournament?

JACK NICKLAUS: Well, I don't know that much about it, I'm sure that Ford 
is obviously a fairly stable company, they are not going to disappear.  I have 
been with Ford for 20 years myself.  And they have always been good people.  
They always treated people nicely and I think that the players, I notice that 
Gary was talking about that last night, Ford has taken an active part towards 
the players rather than just putting their name on the tournament.  The players 
appreciate it, and I think it will be good for the tournament.


Q.  As far as the absence of the top-5 does that make any 
difference?

JACK NICKLAUS: No, that doesn't make any difference.  They are not 
going to cancel the tournament.  I went through that for 30 years 
every time Arnold or Gary or myself didn't show up.  Are we going to have a 
tournament this week?  Of course you are going to have a good tournament.  
The PGA TOUR is loaded with a lot of great players.  I don't think that's an 
issue.


Q.  Some people feel it's the perception  --

JACK NICKLAUS: I don't think we need to talk about that.  Let's talk about 
the positive rather than worrying about the negative.


Q.  What are your plans after Miami?

JACK NICKLAUS: I don't have any plans yet.


Q.  At this point are you leaning toward playing?

JACK NICKLAUS: I'm playing here this week then we will figure it out.


Q.  When do you expect you will decide?

JACK NICKLAUS: Probably a week before.  I don't know when I'm going 
to decide whether I will play or not.  What difference does it make?   I'm not 
going to compete anyway.  Whether or not I'm going to wave to people as I 
run by, (laughs) so that's fine.  I'm not too worried about that.  Would I like to 
play?  Sure I would like to play.  I think I can shoot some good rounds.  I 
finished 6th on one leg in 58  -- at 58 in '98.  I have got 2 legs now so 
hopefully I should be at least that good or better. Of course, the golf ball has 
brought the golf course back into the realm of possibility again.  Last year they 
were ahead of the curve and this year behind the curve already with one year 
obtained in technology.  So if I went up there and played I think I can play the 
golf course.  I don't know if I want to clutter up the field or not, let me find out 
how much I clutter up this one.


Q.  How about the Nationwide, it's a family affair?

JACK NICKLAUS: It's not really a family affair.  They were all playing.  I try 
to play an event each year with my boys.  Steven and I used to play out at 
Pebble Beach out at the AT&T.  Gary and I played at Peter Jacobson's event.  
Michael and I played at Johnny Miller's event.  Jackie and I played in the 
father and son.  So that's one with each of them.  Steve and I stopped playing 
at ATT, since I stopped playing, so when they asked and said would you guys 
like to play, yes, it's an opportunity to go play with Steve and play an event.  Of 
course, Gary was going to play any way, and they invited the other boys, 
which was very nice.  Some fellows that I work with up there, doing the 
tournament are guys that I work with.  They made a big deal out of it.  I thought 
it was nice.  We decided to go play and have some fun.


Q.  Jack, how much more likely do you think it would be that you can 
compete on the PGA TOUR, even occasionally if they would have controlled 
the golf ball and equipment?

JACK NICKLAUS: Well, if they would have controlled the golf ball and 
equipment I probably wouldn't have been playing golf the last 20 years 
probably, which probably is the way it should have been.  We always felt like 
equipment was the issue that's kept a lot of guys playing.  Guys used to be 
done by the time they were 40 years old.  Equipment has kept the guys in it 
beyond that.  And kept them in it long beyond even that.  So I suspect there 
would be an awful lot of guys that wouldn't be playing golf, tournament golf, if 
it wasn't for equipment.


Q.  Along those lines, has driving become a little bit of a lost art here 
since everyone drives it so well?

JACK NICKLAUS: I don't know if they drive it so well.  They drive it so 
long.  You still got to drive the ball reasonably -- that's why they have piles of 
rough out here, that's the only way they can control it.  It's not just the golf 
equipment for the pros.  I mean, how would you like to be the amateur playing 
this golf course for the last month waiting for this golf tournament?  They go 
out there, hit it in the rough, hack it out, hit it in the rough, hack it out.  We used 
to be able to play Doral as Doral for the resort.  It was a difficult golf course, 
strong golf course.  It didn't need to be tricked up.  Now you got to narrow the 
fairways, now you got to raise the rough, now you got to do all kinds of things 
that really make it not pleasant for the people playing the golf course on a 
daily basis.  And I could see it happening a couple of times a year for a U.S. 
Open or PGA Championship, that's only once a year but not for every golf 
tournament.  So that factor is a factor.  I think that, you know, Doral, the first 
year we played Doral, I think it was a 282 that won this tournament or 
something like that.  I think I shot 283 and finished second or third, whatever I 
finished, whatever it was, somewhere in that area.  This was always one of 
our stronger golf courses.  All of a sudden now they shoot 65 every day, if they 
didn't have any rough, because of the golf ball, not anything else.


Q.  Jack, how much was harder is it today for a short hitter shot maker 
than it was 20, 30 years ago?

JACK NICKLAUS: Well, I don't think it's any tougher now.  What the golf 
ball has done, a short hitter is not a short hitter anymore.  We played into the 
wind yesterday.  I mean at 63 I don't hit the ball very far and I hit it 130 yards 
yesterday into the wind.  I didn't hit it 130 yards from the hole 5 times in the of 
'60's and '70's.  I'm playing shorter clubs than I played 20 years ago.  That's 
not right.  I mean what happens to the other guys, they are hitting irons off the 
tee to hit to the player of the same place.


Q.  Proportionately, don't the shorter hitters fall that much farther 
behind the long hitters?

JACK NICKLAUS: I don't think so.  The longer hitters have to lay it up a lot 
of places because they don't have anyplace to hit it.


Q.  What did you use to hit into 18?
JACK NICKLAUS: I would say into the wind I was somewhere always 
between a 2-iron and 5-iron.  The only time I ever hit an 8-iron into the green  
-- I would have hit an 8-iron yesterday is when we played downwind.  We 
certainly weren't downwind yesterday, we were into the wind and right-to-left.  
I mean 17 was into the wind.  It was a driver and I think a 7 or 8-iron 
yesterday.  Normally for me 17 would be without any wind.  So it's just gotten 
to where the golf ball has brought the game back.  Actually if I play well, I 
probably can complete.  I mean I haven't been able to practice.  My game is 
not good.  I'm able to play but I'm not able to practice a lot yet.  And that's the 
same thing that has brought the game back where I can play Augusta.  What 
does that do to everybody else, they have to hamstring them someplace to be 
able to make the golf course, so it's not a driver sand wedge, driver sand 
wedge.


Q.  (Inaudible)

JACK NICKLAUS: Yes, sure.  I don't have any problem with that.  You 
don't hit it inside these 3 places, you hit it to the other side.


Q.  (Inaudible)

JACK NICKLAUS: I don't care what scores guys shoot.  That's never 
bothered me.  If you are going to let the golf equipment go, let them go shoot 
scores, what difference does that make?  I think you are penalizing the 
average golfer the weeks before the tournament, which I don't think is really a 
lot of fun for people.  I think people get tired of seeing people play driver sand 
wedge, driver sand wedge.  They enjoy seeing somebody playing a shot.  
The only time these guys play long irons is when they play a long par-5.  





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT