U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 2000
Jack Nicklaus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  You reverted back to not being able to convert ....
 
JACK NICKLAUS:  I didn't need to convert much.  I don't know how many greens I missed, but I didn't miss very many and I just didn't make anything.  Never made any birdies, no birdies. . Hit 3 greens.  Made three bogeys.  Two bogeys, double-bogey, that is a good score.  What can I say?  It's the way I played most of this year.  Yesterday was the aberration, I guess. 
 

Q.  Yesterday can live again.  You still have to be -- you got to say something positive from the way --
 
JACK NICKLAUS:  I don't have much positive to say about that.  I think that I felt like I started out not playing great first couple of holes and got over that.  Got a couple of pars under my belt, and got going and then I hit 3-wood off of 7 to play it into the opening.  I went in the bunker; had a terrible lie in the bunker and I had 6-iron downwind, and downhill; that was just perfectly picked out of a bad lie ball; hit on the green like where it should hit, and bounced three feet forward.  It's got to go back to the hole.  It doesn't.  I 3-putted.  The 9th hole I didn't hit really a good shot; left it, looked like I was at Pebble Beach, just off the green and the ball just came out too fast; made bogey.  Played all the way around; had birdie chances almost every hole, virtually every hole.  Walked off with nothing.  Hit one bad shot at 17 and double-bogey, that was my round.  I don't take a lot of positive away from that.  Hard to put a positive on it.  I feel like I played a lot better than what I shot and scored, but I signed 75 and that is what I am going to have to sleep on tonight. 
 

Q.  (inaudible)
 
JACK NICKLAUS:  End of story.  How do I am prove?  Well, I start out by shooting 74 then 73, then 72, 71.  Those are all better.  I don't know what I am going to do.  Okay.  Thanks. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT