U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 1, 1994
Jack Nicklaus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JACK NICKLAUS:  I'm managing my game decently from very  difficult places.  

JACK NICKLAUS:  Let's go through that.  

JACK NICKLAUS:  First hole I hit a terrible tee shot left.  Hit a terrible second shot in the bunker, hit a terrible  bunker shot 20 feet and hit a terrible putt and made 5.  


Q.  Terrible 5.  

JACK NICKLAUS:  Actually, I almost made the putt.  Wasn't that  bad a bunker shot but wasn't a place to play.  Anyway, second hole nice tee shot.  6-ironed that, ran through the green which I was really  kind of surprised about.  And I putted it from below  about -- up about four feet and made it for a par which  was a better putt for me because I didn't really --  obviously, bogeyed the first.  You don't want to bogey  two holes.  Third hole I did the same thing; spun off  the right side of the green, putted it not -- well, left  it about seven, eight feet short and holed that one for  my second putt.  And so I got away with that.  Then I turned around the next hole and  hit it in about three and a half feet and missed it.  Made a lot of sense, didn't it?  And so I am still one  over par.  Fifth hole I hit a 6-iron in about four  feet and I made that one for birdie to get back even par.  Then I made a nice save at the next  hole.  Hit it in the bunker left, and hit it out about  oh, about nine, ten feet, I guess; made it for par.  Then I started playing a little bit well  next hole.  I played better -- hit about 20 feet and  missed it.  Next hole I hit a 6-iron out of the rough  that just hit on the green and just went over the green,  down the hill, back by the -- I putted it back up the  hill about four feet; made par.  Made 2 pars there two  days in a row from places where you don't make par.  Anyway, next hole I hit it in about  twelve feet, missed it; turned even par.  Then I hit a  little sand wedge about ten feet behind the hole at 10  and missed it.  And I hit a 7-iron about, oh, I guess 14,  15 feet at 11 and I made that one.  I pulled a tee shot at the next hole --  no.  Yeah, I did pull it there.  Hit a 5-iron out of the  rough about 20 feet and 2-putted that for par.  Then the next hole I hit 3-wood, 8-iron  about, oh, I suppose 18, 20 feet and missed that.  Next hole I played a driver.  Played a  shot from the fairway which I hit a 7-iron about two feet  from the hole and made par -- or birdie I mean.  And next hole I hit a 5-iron about 20  feet and 2-putted it.  Next hole I pulled my drive left and I  was sort of on bare sand.  I don't know whether that was  a cart path or what was over there, but anyway, really  kind of funny.  I am standing there said, well, if I was  smart, I will pitch it out, pitch it on the green, try to  make four.  Couple of people went, yeah, that is the  thing to do.  But I said, yeah, I am not very smart.  I  took a 1-iron, hit it underneath the trees and had to  carry the bunker, ran up on the green about 30 feet,  2-putted it for birdie.  So I got out of that one pretty  good.  And 17 I hit really nice shot about, I  suppose, 12, 13 feet behind the hole with the 5-iron,  missed that.  18 I hit a 6-iron 25 feet to the right of  the hole and 2-putted that.  


Q.  How different, if at all, did the golf course  play today from yesterday?  

JACK NICKLAUS:  Pretty much the same.  Course played about the  same.  I don't see much difference.  


Q.  What is the best golf hole out here?  

JACK NICKLAUS:  The most difficult or the best?  


Q.  Just by design and by tenacity.  

JACK NICKLAUS:  What my opinion of what the best might be,  might be different than what might be the toughest or  something else.  I don't know.  


Q.  Doesn't have to be tough.  That is okay, think  about it.  

JACK NICKLAUS:  I think there are an awful lot of holes that I  like a lot.  I think the second hole is an awfully good  hole because it is awfully difficult.  Such a difficult  green for such a long shot.  


Q.  After you hit that number 12, but it bounced  back, what kind lie did you have from outside of the  fairway?  You were behind some real long grass.  

JACK NICKLAUS:  I didn't know it hit anybody to start with  until my wife told me.  But it hit some young boy right  in the ankle, and I had 211 yards to the hole out of the  tallest rough, but I had a decent lie.  I knew the ball  was going to fly so I hit a 5-iron and came out just what  I had hoped and got all the way back to the hole.  


Q.  Jack, given that you are driving the ball not  as well as you'd like, are you giving yourself high marks  for perseverance and just hanging in there?  

JACK NICKLAUS:  Actually, if you really want to know the  truth, I am probably driving the ball better than I have  been driving it.  I have been driving it worse than  this.  So, I am really not that unhappy with it.  I  really haven't put the ball -- I put a couple of times in  places I shouldn't; worse, than I should put it.  But for  the most part, I probably hit, let's see, ten -- I hit  ten pretty good tee shots today; maybe four that weren't  very good.  So that is not that terrible.  


Q.  13, 14 yesterday you had hit them off the cart  path second shot?  

JACK NICKLAUS:  Yeah, off the left side.  


Q.  Did you have any shots like that today?  

JACK NICKLAUS:  I think the one at 16, I guess, It was  probably a cart path -- I don't know whether it was cart  path or ground, I don't know.  Where is the cart path on  16?  


Q.  They just drive all over.  

JACK NICKLAUS:  Drive all over the whole course; the whole  course is a cart path?  


Q.  Cart path is to the right.  

JACK NICKLAUS:  To the right on 16, then I was on the left, so  I wasn't on the cart path.  Evidently, it must have been  -- I don't know.  It wasn't sand needles only, it wasn't  high grass.  


Q.  Jack, do you feel that you got as much out of  this round as you could have gotten, and are you pleased  with your position right now?  

JACK NICKLAUS:  I don't think that -- I think I probably shot  about as high as I could shoot after I got going.  After  the 6th hole, I was even par.  I don't think I could have  shot much higher than I shot.  That is not right.  I got  up and down at 8, outside of that, that was the only  thing that I got up and down on.  I had an awful lot of  opportunities.  I never really got much into the hole.  I  mean, if you look what my birdies were, I did make a 15  footer.  That was it.  I made a 4 footer, 2-putt and a  2-footer that was -- I made all day for birdies, then I  made a couple of par puts. The par puts were all quite  nice, but, it is, I think -- I think I probably got out  of it about what I should have gotten out of it; let's  just say that.  I don't think I was all that much --  could have been, should have been that much lower, should  have have been that much higher.  


Q.  Are you pleased with your position?  

JACK NICKLAUS:  Yeah, I am very pleased with it.  Absolutely.  


Q.  When was your last round of competitive golf  in North Carolina, was that in 1977?  There was some  reports that you played Hall of Fame --  

JACK NICKLAUS:  Go look in the record book.  I can't tell  you.  You have got a better chance of finding it than I  do.  


Q.  Has there been anything specific that has kept  you away from the scheduling conflicts?  

JACK NICKLAUS:  I don't really know.  I haven't a clue.  North Carolina?  Have I not played in  North Carolina?  What, have I played in North Carolina?  What do we have in North Carolina?  


Q.  Since you have been on the Senior Tour, the  Advantage, Paine Weber?  

JACK NICKLAUS:  No, I haven't really played -- how many senior  tournaments have I played?  I have only played five, six  senior tournaments if your a year, and we really haven't  had a tournament at Pinehurst, if we have had been  playing at Pinehurst sometimely, probably I would have  come.  They wouldn't let me in the one before this a  couple of years ago.  I didn't play well enough.  I just  haven't played that much golf in recent years that I am  looking to why I haven't played someplace.  I love to  play North Carolina.  I spend a lot of time here in North  Carolina.  Jackie went to school up here, and you know,  through the '80s, mid '80s I spent a lot of time.  


Q.  Did the heat bother you much today?  

JACK NICKLAUS:  Not that -- if you were at Oakmont you would  not think the heat bothered you that much today.  It was  a nice cool walk in the shade today compared to Oakmont.  


Q.  I heard that you gave a seminar on driver  faces on TV yesterday.  

JACK NICKLAUS:  You missed it here at the press room.  


Q.  No, I took a nap.  

JACK NICKLAUS:  That is normal.  


Q.  Well, I'd like to -- can you briefly tell us  what you said?  

JACK NICKLAUS:  I was talking about face progression on the  driver.  


Q.  Yeah.  

JACK NICKLAUS:  All I was really talking about was to bore  those of you who were here for Mr. Taylor's benefit, we  talked about.  


Q.  We will talk later, I don't care.  

JACK NICKLAUS:  I talked about the golfers today are-- golf  clubs today are designed by basically engineers and  computers and the design for the average golfer, and when  we went to metal woods we eliminated face progression in  the woods, same way they have put big offset in the irons  make it easier for the average golfer to hook the golf  ball.  I have not done that with my woods but -- with my  irons, but with the woods I went with a normal metal  wood, and I think that is -- I have adjusted my swing to  try to fit that and I haven't done a very good job of  it.  So what we are doing is I am work -- I have got a  prototype driver.  I have got -- we took the driver and I  put some face progression on that driver to try to get a  driver that would be more like what I used to play with;  all the benefits of wood from the shaping and the face  progression but all the benefits of metal from the  perimter weighting and distance.  


Q.  Talk about bulge and roll and jazz like that?  

JACK NICKLAUS:  No, little bit.  Mostly about face  progression.  Do you understand what I am talking about  face progression?  


Q.  Of course I know --  

JACK NICKLAUS:  Of course you don't know.  


Q.  Of course I know. .  Do not know.  

JACK NICKLAUS:  Face progression, when the shaft goes in the  club, now if you look down most of your golf clubs today,  the woods are almost even with the shaft face.  Well, the  old woods used to be in front.  That is face  progression.  All your irons are set behind the shaft.  All the ones that look like big waffle irons, big  curly-cues on them.  And they offset.  And that is  designed for the average golfer to be able to hook the  ball.  Now, all the companies used to make golf clubs and  design by the good players; an average golfer adjusted to  them, or found what he could use.  It is now the other  way around.  Manufactures make clubs for the average  golfer and they ask the good players to play them and  they want them to play them because that is what they are  selling.  


Q.  Okay.  Good.  

JACK NICKLAUS:  Commerce.  Let us get back to golf.  


Q.  Talk about-- your year on the whole started  off on a real high note and just have you, in your mind,  thought about what you know, what has not gone right?  

JACK NICKLAUS:  My year, obviously I didn't start off very  well.  And sort of unexpectedly because I really hadn't  played that much golf before I went out to Mercedes, but  I played very well at Mercedes and since then I have  played just awful and just the last three weeks I have  started to play a little bit better.  And I-- just before  the Member-- just before the U.S. Open I was at Muirfield  and I found-- actually I was at home and went to  Muirfield; I found a little something in my swing that I  thought would help me.  It was more or less helping my  backswing.  I have use that for three weeks now and  modified it a little bit as I have gone-- and my golf  swing has gotten better.  It is not where I want it yet  but it has gotten a lot better.  


Q.  Who are you working with now?  

JACK NICKLAUS:  I working with myself, yeah.  I see Rick  occasionally and Jim, I see them both.  


Q.  When you work on your own golf swing like  that, do you use video or do you just go by feel?  

JACK NICKLAUS:  I go by where the golf ball goes, basically  feel, as you are saying, but I mean, if I know what the  swing does; what the ball does and the pattern that I  want, my memory, my muscle memory will come from that.  I  am much better off by myself.  That is basically Jack  Grout, when he taught me how to play, he taught me how to  teach myself and frankly, I probably had too many  teachers lately.  Murphy called it, what, "prowess by  analysis," you get into that syndrome where you got  somebody around all the time and you drive -- it almost  drives you crazy because you never get anything done.  And you know, as much as every once in a while Rick will  point out something to me that has helped me; Jim points  out something that will help me, I am really much better  off myself working on it myself and just occasionally ask  somebody a question about something that they see.  That  is basically what I have tried to do; tried to get rid of  everything that -- I have got more gurus as it relates to  swing, health physical fitness, you know, I get home at  night and got 12 phone calls to people that I am working  with on different things at night to talk to them with.  I finally said, no, stop that stuff; get back to do what  I used to do; just do it myself.  And all those people  mean well.  And I have nothing against that.  


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT