U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 29, 1994
Jack Nicklaus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JACK NICKLAUS:  What can I do for you?   
 
JACK NICKLAUS:  Well, what do you want me to talk about  Pinehurst?  I can talk for hours about Pinehurst.   
 

Q.  What is your first memory of it?  
 
JACK NICKLAUS:  First memory?  I came here in college.  I was  18 years old.  I was on spring break.  I came by and I  played -- I played number 2 then, I think, I probably  played number one, maybe number four.  I don't know, I  played three, four golf courses.  I think I played down  at Pine Needles.  I played several golf courses here and  I enjoyed it.  After I did that, I said well, I think I  want to come back and play North/South one time.  I came  back the next year, played North/South, won that.  I remember the way the golf course played  for the North/South.  I don't remember -- I think we can  probably go back to the archives and find out the scores  I shot.  It was over 80 both rounds, and I have shot in  the finals and won the tournament.  That is the way this  golf course used to play.  Used to play hard, fast, used  to play very difficult to get the ball up and down around  the greens it was a very, very difficult golf course;  particularly in the springtime when you didn't have your  grass on the greens -- around the greens and I have never  played it any other time where I have seen it under those  conditions except that time.  That used to be gold  conditions, conditions they like to reproduce, but never  seem to get there.  Mother Nature seems to rain on top of  you anymore and it doesn't allow it to happen.   
 

Q.  The way France has played it?  
 
JACK NICKLAUS:  You would know.   
 

Q.  You have won two years ago, three years ago,  you won last year, compare your golf game at the moment  compared to --  
 
JACK NICKLAUS:  I had -- I think my golf game was better last  year coming in.  It was pretty awful coming in last year  but I played pretty well during the tournament last year.  I have just started to play a few good  rounds as of late.  I haven't played many, but I played a  few.  And I am starting to see some light at the end of  the tunnel as far as playing some decent golf.  That is  kind of encouraging.  I played, obviously, couple of  decent rounds at the Open, and then I played a couple of  decent rounds last week, and in between it was sort of --  just didn't -- I just didn't make any putts.  But on the  last round, particularly, I hit the ball very, very well;  looked like I had a chance to show a low score; then I  messed it up.  But I am a little encouraged by the way I  am playing.  I am not playing great.  I am not playing my  best by any means, but you don't necessarily want to be  playing your best on Wednesday anyway.   
 

Q.  What did it do for you in your confidence to  play so well at Oakmont?  
 
JACK NICKLAUS:  Well, first two rounds gave me a lot of  confidence, then I destroyed it the last two.  I mean, I  didn't drive the ball particularly well at Oakmont last  two months.  As a matter of fact, I didn't drive it  particularly well the second round.  I got six roughs in  the second round, I got out, but I was in where I could  play then the third round I ended up in all the lies that  Johnny Miller was in the second round which -- we'd be  five yards apart.  He'd chip it out and I'd knock it on  the green.  That was the way Oakmont was.  If you were  just off the fairway you just couldn't play at all.  And I sort of got in that syndrome the  third round, and I lost my ability to be able to do  anything because it was just too difficult out of the  rough.  But I certainly started swinging better.  My golf  swing got considerably better.  I carried it over, to  some extent, last week.  I certainly feel like my iron  game has come back a lot.  I am still not totally happy  with the driver, but I am getting better with it.  That  is encouraging.   
 

Q.  Which driver is this?  
 
JACK NICKLAUS:  It is a prototype of another model of the  Bear.  It is the Bear with face progression on it; made  it a little deeper face.   
 

Q.  (Question inaudible)  
 
JACK NICKLAUS:  I don't think so.  I don't think-- I drove  with that driver last week; I drove the ball decent.  I  think it is a pretty decent driver, but it is not going  to be what we're ultimately going to put out.  I have  already made the changes on this driver for the next  thing I want.  I just want to keep working 'til we get  the prototype the way we want it, then we'll make another  model of it.  But I play myself through that stuff  anyway.   
 

Q.  Could you just comment on the new pace of play  outlines they put out?  
 
JACK NICKLAUS:  I don't understand it, frankly.  I don't think  it makes a whole lot of sense.  We have been playing on  the Senior Tour, which plays very fast, and I don't know  what they are really asking us to do.  To be very honest  with you, they have asked us to play at a slower pace  than we played on the Senior Tour, yet, play faster per  shot which doesn't make any sense at all to me.  I don't  understand it.  Does anybody else understand it in here?  Does it make any sense to anybody?  They'd ask you to  play ten seconds faster than we have ever played on the  tour, on any shot; yet, they give you more time than we  have ever given to us to play 18 holes of golf.  I don't  understand that.  Doesn't make any sense to me.   
 

Q.  Ben Hogan had a five hour round at Oakmont;  what do you want?  
 
JACK NICKLAUS:  If you want-- say what you want and give a guy  a reasonable amount of time to play.  I mean, 30 seconds  is ridiculous.  I mean, we have been playing 40 seconds  for how many years?  That is what we have been playing  all the time, always playing 40 seconds.  Those have been  the guidelines that we have used playing golf, and it has  been very -- the regular tour has become very fast; the  Senior Tour has become very fast, the play is very fast;  all of a sudden we are supposed to take ten seconds off a  shot.  That doesn't make any sense.   
 

Q.  You got bent out of shape?  
 
JACK NICKLAUS:  They didn't enforce anything.  If you are  going to do the thing, then you enforce it at the start.  You don't change the rules.  Just enforce -- the first  group played in what, four hours and --   
 

Q.  Four and a half.  
 
JACK NICKLAUS:  Four and a half hours.  All you are going to  do is get slower.  You got to start off at the first  group and go from there.  It is not how fast you play per  shot.  It is how fast you keep going, and that is what  they did on the Senior Tour.  That is what they have done  on the regular tour, they have done a very, very good job  on the tour.  I think it has been great.  I love it.  I  have always been a player who played the pace of the  field, and then sometimes that pace is slow; then they  speed up; then I get myself in trouble.  But I like the  faster pace, I think it is great, but I don't think you  take a pace like that and all of a sudden just, you know,  jump way ahead of it.   
 

Q.  What did the USGA say?  
 
JACK NICKLAUS:  I haven't talked to the USGA.   
 

Q.  Who made the rule?  
 
JACK NICKLAUS:  It said David Eger and Judy Bell on the  sheet.   
 

Q.  Why don't you ask --  
 
JACK NICKLAUS:  I was just asked the question.   
 

Q.  I am sorry.  
 
JACK NICKLAUS:  I am not complaining about it.  I was asked  the question about what I thought about it.  I said I  didn't understand what they were doing - is what I said.  I mean, it didn't make any sense to take -- did you miss  the first part of what I said?   
 

Q.  I just got here.  
 
JACK NICKLAUS:  What I said is they have given us-- senior  play and the regular play has been very fast, on both  tours.  U.S. Open was slow.  But that was the enforcement  of the USGA on the first few groups, not to pace the play  of a player.  All they got to do is keep that moving and  the pace of play has been moving on all the tours.  They  have given us ample time to play.  As a matter of fact,  more than probably ample time to play the golf course on  the number, but then they asked to us play ten seconds  faster - a shot which doesn't make any sense at all.  That was what I am saying.  I don't understand what they  want to accomplish.  Maybe it is only ten seconds faster  a shot if you get behind.  I don't know.  But if you  played at that pace, if you played a ten seconds faster  shot all through the golf course, we will be playing in  about three hours and ten minutes probably.   
 

Q.  I join in your bafflement.  
 
JACK NICKLAUS:  I don't understand it.  I don't understand why  the players-- why the players are suffering the brunt of  managing a field.  Doesn't make any sense.  They have  passed it on to the players.  I don't think it is the  players' fault.   
 

Q.  Do you know how much weight you might have  lost at Oakmont?  
 
JACK NICKLAUS:  I didn't lose any weight.  I gained weight at  Oakmont.   
 

Q.  How drained were you by Sunday night?  
 
JACK NICKLAUS:  I was fine.  I didn't have any problem at  all.  All I did at Oakmont I had two glasses of water on  every tee and I kept myself hydrated and I didn't have a  problem.   
 

Q.  You had all those younger players were playing  on empty?  
 
JACK NICKLAUS:  I mean you had to just drink water.  If you  didn't, you are just asking for trouble.   
 

Q.  How much has the rain softened up these greens  and how much difference --  
 
JACK NICKLAUS:  A lot.   
 

Q.  Going to be able to go right at the pins?  
 
JACK NICKLAUS:  I don't know if you go right at the pins.  What we have right now is a golf course with fairly slow  greens and fairly soft.  But yet chipping to them, the  ball will get away from you.  I mean, they are firm; they  are soft hitting in, but firm chipping, meaning the ball  will skip and run off on you, so they are kind of --  actually they got kind of touchy to play right now.  I am  not sure exactly -- I mean one time we were chipping out;  one time hitting bounce and skip; then hit and stop,  just-- they are not consistent yet.  I think we would all  love to see them dry out and play a little faster.   
 

Q.  If they don't, if we get more rain tonight; if  we get more rain during the week, how is that going to  affect. . .  
 
JACK NICKLAUS:  I don't know what they are going to do to the  golf course.  Arnold and I played up here two months  ago.   
 

Q.  Just after The Masters?  
 
JACK NICKLAUS:  Yeah, we played a practice round.  I think we  played it on Tuesday.  On Monday evening we played a  practice round.  Greens were extremely slow, slower than  they are right now.  Yet the next day when we played, the  greens were magnificent.  They cut them-- double cut them  at night; double cut them the next morning and they were  terrific and they ran about 10 and they were just great.  And I don't know how -- I mean, they change the golf  course overnight by just mowing and doing things -- maybe  that is their plan tonight.  They have had very hot  conditions.  They have had very difficult conditions for  growing grass and maybe their plan was not to abuse the  golf course prior to the event and bring the speed up the  last day.  What does the USGA say they are getting the  speed to?   
 

Q.  9 and a half, 10?  
 
JACK NICKLAUS:  If they did exactly what they did with us then  the speeds will be that and they will play fine.  If we  get rain; then they will be soft, but they will at least  be quick.  Quick enough.  They probably weren't running 7  out there today.  They are pretty slow.  But I don't  really expect to see the golf course that way tomorrow --  I expect to see a different golf course tomorrow.  I  mean, it's a wonderful golf course, it is sand hills and  that is the reason why somebody picked this area to build  golf courses because it drains fast.  I mean, doesn't  take long around here; doesn't it?   
 

Q.  It was an accident.  
 
JACK NICKLAUS:  It was an accident?   
 

Q.  That came as an aftermath, the golf course.  No, there is a famous saying:  When it rains here, if you  listen hard enough, you can hear it sizzle when it hits  hell because it takes about ten seconds?  
 
JACK NICKLAUS:  It goes through it fast, the golf course dries  out pretty fast.  You are not going to dry out the greens  that fast, but I noticed the fellows yesterday morning  came in as I was warming up yesterday-- I came in late  yesterday afternoon.  They said, gosh, it was soft out  there.  Gosh it was slow out there.  And I went out  yesterday evening after it had a day of traffic and wind  on it, the golf course wasn't bad at all last night.  Now  I played this morning after it rained against last night  and the golf course was slow.  So I don't know what the  golf course is we're going to play, I really don't.  Whatever it be, it's Pinehurst.  Pinehurst is a wonderful  golf course, a wonderful test of golf; great place to  have the Open, this Open, and we are going to have the  regular Open in 99.  I think that is great.  I think you  picked one of the meccas of the game of golf and the game  of golf is a great place to come and play regardless of  how it is.   
 

Q.  If it's going to be a different golf course  tomorrow when the championship starts --  
 
JACK NICKLAUS:  Why did we bother to practice today?   
 

Q.  I guess.  
 
JACK NICKLAUS:  You still got to hit the golf ball; practice  that.  I don't know worry too much about where I putted  today I worry about that.   
 

Q.  How about your game?  
 
JACK NICKLAUS:  I get stiff if I wait.   
 

Q.  How about your game now; how are you playing  now and how do you rate yourself as a chance to win?  
 
JACK NICKLAUS:  Oh, as I said, a minute ago, my golf game is  getting better than it was a month ago, but it is not the  way I'd like to have it, but it is not bad.  And how do I  rate my chances to win?   We all start out even; that is  all I know.  We will just see what happens beyond that.   
 

Q.  Were you touched by the reception you had at  Oakmont and if so, did that encourage you to play a  little more?  
 
JACK NICKLAUS:  Very nice reception I had at Oakmont.  The  only thing that is going to get me to play is my ability  to play - or should I say if I were to sustain the way I  played this year over a longer period of time, I am not  going to play much longer, if I start to play a little  bit better then I will play.  I think -- I am hoping that what happens   -- the way I played this year has been a temporary  situation.  Certainly it hasn't been from lack of working  at it.  I have worked at it very hard.  I have played a  lot of golf this year contrary to what a lot of people  think, but I have played an awful lot of golf.  I work at  it as hard as I have ever worked at it.  I just-- my body  just wouldn't handle me working at it to the length I  worked at it to years ago, but I still work at it very  hard and I work at it with the intent of playing good  golf, but if I can't play and perform, I mean, it doesn't   -- it is not any fun for me to come out and beat the  ball around in a ceremonial-type situation.  I enjoy  competing and that is why I play golf.  If you can't  compete it is no fun.   
 

Q.  You talked about the change in court  conditions.  In terms of the number of courses in this  area that you have designed and had a hand in design does  that give you the advantage over the other players  knowing that?  
 
JACK NICKLAUS:  Just one.  Just one course here.  No, I don't  think there is any advantage one way or the other.  I think any time you have played a golf  course over a period-- although I come out here and play,  I have forgotten all the little nuances of this golf  course.  I mean, this golf course here has got tons of  things to try to remember.  You can't remember them all  if you are not playing a lot of golf here.  A lot of  little bounces around the green; you hit shots and the  ball goes whoosh, whoosh, whoosh, it is going all over  the place; you are saying where did that come from; you  are saying, oh, yeah, you just learn as you go.  A lot of  things in this golf course.   
 

Q.  Is it the same kind of pressure; same kind of  excitement, anticipation, playing in a senior Open as in  a regular Open?  
 
JACK NICKLAUS:  No.   
 

Q.  How does it rate, I mean, it's a major  championship; is it?  
 
JACK NICKLAUS:  It's a senior major championship.  I mean, I  think you would be saying-- I think I answered this  question yesterday or the day before, I went through --  at the press conference they asked the same question  after playing all these majors in a row, I am not trying  to degrade a senior major because a senior major is to  the seniors a major championship as big as any other  thing.  But it is not one of the four major championships  of the world which are the best players in the world  playing in it.  We are not the best players in the  world.  We are seniors, we are passed being the best  players in the world.  We had our time as it relates to  that.  As it relates to what we have today, this is the  biggest tournament that we have as a senior golfer.  And  am I excited to be here yes, I was excited to have won it  twice,; yes, I am delighted to have it under my belt  twice.  I'd like to have it under my belt three times and  I have worked hard to prepare for this because  realistically, you know, maybe I had a chance at Oakmont  in my mind, but I think I realistically have a chance  with my golf game and my mind here this week.   
 

Q.  How long has it been since you played 3 in a  row?  
 
JACK NICKLAUS:  Since the Tradition, Masters, and PGA seniors  every year, last four, five years.  Three in a row  tournaments or three in a row majors?   
 

Q.  Three tournaments?  
 
JACK NICKLAUS:  Yeah, I did -- I played-- last year I played--  last year I played three in a row twice, six out seven  weeks last year only tournament I skipped last year was  Players Championship; is that right -- I played Doral,  Honda and Bay Hill skipped the Players and then played  Tradition, Masters and PGA Seniors I played six out of of  seven.  I was bla bla bla at the end of that week.   
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT