KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
October 8, 2020
Matilda Castren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  THE MODERATOR:   We're here with Matilda Castren who just shot a great round of 69, a round of 1-under.  Welcome to the KPMG Women's PGA.  You're a 2020 LPGA rookie here at KPMG.  You're making quite a splash.  How are you feeling right now?
 MATILDA CASTREN:   I feel great.  Honestly I was just trying to have fun out there and enjoy the course.  I mean, the course is amazing and in great shape, so I just tried to have fun out there.
 THE MODERATOR:   You definitely did have fun; you had four birdies, birdies on 9, 12, 16 and 17.  Can you tell us about those birdies you had out there today?
 MATILDA CASTREN:   Well, I tried to take advantage of the par-5s because there's only two, and I managed to hit my wedges close on both of them.  17, I had maybe like a 15-footer for birdie uphill.  My caddie gave me a great line, so yeah.  That was that.
 THE MODERATOR:   What are your thoughts on Aronimink?  It's a long course.  It's a tough course.  It's a great major test.
 MATILDA CASTREN:   Yeah, it definitely is a challenge.  I think it's a course that you just have to stay patient and really -- if you do your homework, that makes a big difference.  Work on your lag putts and just stay patient.  Everyone is going to make a couple mistakes here and there, and yeah, just try to take advantage of those couple holes that are a little bit shorter.
 THE MODERATOR:   What kind of prep did you do for coming here to Aronimink?  I know some players like to look at Google Maps, some talk to players who have played it before.  What kind of research, if any, did you do?
 MATILDA CASTREN:   I didn't do much research.  My friend Kelly Tan, she played the course before ShopRite and she told me it's going to be amazing, and I was just really excited to get here.  I played 36 holes for practice before the tournament this week, and yeah, tried to take as many notes and tried to putt as many putts as I could, those long putts can make a big difference out here.
 Q. You've got a good first round under your belt.  What do you do to get ready for tomorrow's second round?
 MATILDA CASTREN:   Just hit a few balls, hit some putts and have a good dinner.  The food is amazing here at Aronimink, so I'm excited for dinner.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT