UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT SAN ANTONIO FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 16, 2019
Lowell Narcisse
Jarrod Carter-McLin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Southern Miss - 36, UTSA - 17
Q. Lowell, take me through the game today from a general standpoint. How did you feel like you played as a team?
LOWELL NARCISSE: Good wasn't good enough today. We missed some opportunities that we could have taken advantage of. Obviously defense got a great stop. You can't turn the ball over three times, obviously almost four times, and expect to win like that against a good quality team. Just got to eliminate the small mistakes and keep taking small steps.
Q. You finished with a career high passing total. How did you feel about your game individually?
LOWELL NARCISSE: Like I say, good ain't good enough at this point. We still ended up losing by almost three scores. I mean, that don't really account for anything.
Obviously we have to find a way to move the ball and we couldn't establish our running game how we wanted to, so we had to put it in there some type of way.
Q. Are there ways you see yourself progressing as a quarterback, any differences you see?
LOWELL NARCISSE: Just kind of getting comfortable in understanding the system and the guys more, understanding what guys like, personnels and play calling. I mean, I'm getting a better feel for everything and just kind of settling into myself again.
Q. You mentioned the run game. Was there any reason that didn't connect for you all?
LOWELL NARCISSE: They kind of loaded the box tonight. They do a good job with the safety of kind of bringing him down and playing nine in the box, so we had to take the ball and put it on the perimeter.
Q. Lowell, you and Franklin connected on seven completions. What was it they were showing that made it seem easier for y'all two to connect than maybe some of the others?
LOWELL NARCISSE: Franklin is one of the better route runners, even though him being a young guy, and we know we could have some good match-ups based on personnel coverages, and I just kind of went to my reads and he happened to be in progression to make plays for me.
Q. Jarrod, Southern Miss connected on a few big plays today. What happened on those plays? Were they just catch-and-run type?
JARROD CARTER-McLIN: Yeah, we've just got to focus more on eliminating those few plays, like I said before. It's just two or three plays here and there that are going for long touchdowns that if you take those out of the game, it's a totally different ballgame. We've got to find a way somehow someway to get on the same page and eliminate those busts or misfits or whatever it may be and not allow that to happen.
Q. Lowell, you said you had a good game today but it wasn't good enough. Where do you guys go from here? Where do you individually see where you need to improve?
LOWELL NARCISSE: Like J-Mac said, the games come down to, what, four or five plays that make a difference in the game, and obviously my fumble is one of them. Me missing the touchdown pass to Carlos was another one. We gave up two big runs on defense, and maybe one of the special teams players will put us in a better position. Obviously we make the four plays, the four plays go our way, we're sitting here having a different conversation. So just kind of limiting those small mistakes.
Q. You guys had five sacks today. At the end of that game did you just feel constantly under pressure? Obviously it's a little more difficult when you have those five sacks. What can you do to try to avoid those?
LOWELL NARCISSE: Their scheme as a whole, they do a good job of kind of twisting and confusing the offensive line of where they're bringing different stunts and blitzes from. They got home tonight. We could have did a better job of kind of picking it up. I could have obviously did a better job of getting the ball out of my hand faster to help my offensive line, but we'll look at it tomorrow and clean it up.
Q. What was the mood in the locker room? Obviously you guys need two wins to even be bowl eligible. What's the mindset of the team right now?
JARROD CARTER-McLIN: Keep fighting. That's all you can do is keep fighting. You go out there and play your heart out, play as hard as you can, give it all you've got, and at the end of the day you'll see it's God's plan, so whatever his will will be done. We're going to go out there, we're going to play, we're going to play hard and hopefully our good is good enough, and if it's not, we're going to go back to the drawing board and try to fix it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT