CHICK-FIL-A PEACH BOWL: WASHINGTON VS ALABAMA
December 29, 2016
Vita Vea
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I'm fascinated by the defensive front, that you all were running backs in high school.  Were you a good running back?  
VITA VEA: Yes, I guess so.   
 Q.  Do you know your best game that you ever had, one of your best games?  
VITA VEA: My best game had to be Senior Night when I scored six touchdowns.   
 Q.  Six touchdowns as a running back?  What high school did you go to?  I'm going to look up everybody's stats.  
VITA VEA: Milpitas High School.   
 Q.  What other sports did you do?  Both you and Elijah for your size are very quick-footed and very athletic.  Anything else you did to help contribute to that?  
VITA VEA: I know for Elijah, he did wrestling.  So that helped him.  Me, I feel like for me, I was just a kid that played around a lot, running around.  You know, I played basketball a little bit.  I played for one year in high school.   
 Q.  Were you good?  
VITA VEA: I was all right.  I was, like, playing basketball but my mind was still on football.  So it didn't really help with that.  So I just stuck with football.  I continued to play basketball just for fun.  Family members, friends, stuff like that.   
 Q.  And talking to coaches yesterday, and they said something kind of funny about you.  That sometimes you guys have to get to that dark place where they're really angry and mean on the football field.  They want to get you to that dark place.  What do you try to do before the game to get you there?  You're talking about intensity and sustained intensity.  Do you know what I mean by that?  
VITA VEA: Oh, yeah.  You know, I feel like there's a saying that to be a D-lineman, you have to be sick in the head to play D-line.   
 Q.  Because it's lots of banging, right?  
VITA VEA: Um-hmm.   
 Q.  Are you good at getting to that place now, or are you still, like, too nice or too -- where are you at with that?  
VITA VEA: It's something that, you know, we discuss off the field, like having controlled rage.  Not really having -- not really being over the optimal level and stuff like that.   
 Q.  What do you think about going up against these Alabama offensive lineman because both tackles are highly rated guys?  How do you see that matchup with them?  
VITA VEA: Oh, I feel like it's going to be really tough for us.  It's a really good matchup.  The toughest -- it's going to be the toughest O-line we face all year.   
 Q.  Are you good with your hands?  How good are you with your hands, kind of making moves and getting off of stuff?  
VITA VEA: I try to work at it.  Coach is constantly harping at us about it in regards to running drills, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT