WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 25, 2021
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Just assess your match if you could.
 PATRICK REED:   Yeah, it was solid.  I felt like I was hitting the ball a lot better than I did yesterday on the first nine.  Yesterday I kind of got off to a really slow start, but today came out swinging.  Just came out hitting some quality shots early and was able to put myself in the right spot and be aggressive with the putter.  I think that was the biggest difference from yesterday is yesterday I had to play so defensive, because I was hitting it all over the place and didn't hit it on the green, leave myself in the wrong spot where it has the most break.  And today I had more control.  Because of that I was able to make some birdies early and do what I needed to do there at the end, hit the ball, not make any mistakes, hit the ball on the fat side of the green and make some putts.
 Q. Did you feel like you were in control of the match from of the start?
 PATRICK REED:   I did.  After birdieing the 1st and putting myself in the right spot on the 2nd and hitting it close on 3, it felt like I was in control of my own game and when I feel like that I feel like I can go out there and make a lot of birdies.  I was able to do that early, put a lot of pressure on him and just kept on letting him back in, especially on par-5s.  I've got to play those a little better.  As a whole I was pretty pleased.
 Q. Did the course play different with the rain last night?
 PATRICK REED:   A lot different.  I think that was the biggest thing.  We were kind of laughing because I think I hit one of my longest drives yesterday, contact-wise and everything on 15, and I couldn't find a sprinkler head, actually had to step off to the front edge of the green, I think it was 41 to the front.  And today I had 41 front, 52 or 53 flag and today I had 179.  I went from chip lob wedge to a hammered 6-iron.  So the winds were opposite and it played different, but at the same time, it's a golf course that, if you're playing from the fairway you're going to have control.
 Q. What happened on No. 10?  I think you hit a branch with your tee shot.  Can you explain that whole hole?
 PATRICK REED:   Yeah, just hit a loose 3-wood.  I was trying to get down that left side because of the wind direction and I pulled it just a hair and because I had clipped the tree, I didn't know where it went, so I hit a provisional.  Next 3-wood I hit was a nice tight draw over that left bunker, thinking it was going to be perfect.  Get up there, luckily they knew where my first one was and my second one ended up through into the hazard.  It was too much club.
 I lost the hole, but it was one of those that I felt like I hit a good iron shot.  The problem is when you're that far left, almost by 11 tee, with that back flag, that tree's in your way.  It clipped the top of the tree and ended up short of the bunkers, I had to get up and over the bunkers and couldn't execute and get up-and-down.
 Q. You got that hole back on 11 quickly.
 PATRICK REED:   Yes, sir.
 Q. Overall, did you feel like you played a whole lot better than yesterday?
 PATRICK REED:   Yeah, overall I felt like I had more control today than yesterday.  The only thing is I've got to play the par-5s better.  Yesterday I birdied 12 by making a long putt, but besides that I made bogey on 12 yesterday, I was sitting there looking at having to make a bunker shot for bogey today.  So I just had to concede the hole.
 Then I made a mess of 12 today.
 And I parred 16 with 7-iron in my hand.  I would say the only thing I need to do was clean up the par-5s, but besides that I feel like the game and how I'm hitting the ball is where I need it to be.
 Q. There wasn't big galleries out here today; did you have any interaction with the galleries today?
 PATRICK REED:   We've had a little interaction with them.  I think the hardest thing was, we've been early.  Like today I think we were third group out, so we're kind of flying around the golf course.  Towards the end of the match you start seeing more and more people out there.  You know, when you're playing that early, people -- there's not really as many people at the golf course.  You know, it's awesome just to see them out here and see fans out at the golf course, and the more we can get, the more people out here and do it safely and responsibly, it's going to be amazing.  I surely miss them.
 Q. Given your record, 1-0-1 as you are right now, will you spend any time tomorrow maybe looking on what's going on around you?
 PATRICK REED:   No, not at all.  I feel like I'm in the position now that if I go ahead and do what I'm supposed to do tomorrow and win my match, it takes care of itself.  That's the thing with this kind of round-robin kind of groupings, that all you can do is control yourself and see what the other groups are doing in your group.  Sitting at 1½ points with tomorrow and being the guy that I haven't played yet, if I go out and take care of business and win my match, there's nothing I have to worry about.
 Q. Have you thought about the Ryder Cup at all or is it just so early?
 PATRICK REED:   I haven't.  It's always on our mind, obviously, but the biggest thing for us is you've got to play good golf.  You play well, then you're able to secure your spot on the team.  So that's all I can control now.  Rather than thinking about the actual event, we've got to sit here and thinking about playing well each week so we can get on the team and go out and represent the United States.
 Q. You're probably the most scrutinized guy on the TOUR with talk about your image and reputation.  Are you comfortable with everything?
 PATRICK REED:   It is what it is.
 Q. It doesn't bother you?
 PATRICK REED:   No.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT