DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 16, 2017
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You landed to Dubai Tuesday, did some work on Wednesday and go out and post that beautiful 65.  As you look back on the round, what do you feel your strengths were?
PATRICK REED: I felt like ball-striking was where it needed to be.  I feel like I had pretty much most control over the golf ball today.  Seemed like the tee shots I didn't seem to hit particularly well, I missed them in the correct spots.  You know, I only hit one tee shot I felt like I didn't hit it in the right spot and from there I was able to get the ball back in play, hit a wedge shot on the green and make the putt.
That's what you've got to do to shoot low numbers around any kind of golf course.  When you get in trouble, you have to figure out how to get yourself out of it and you just have to capitalise on all the opportunities you have.  I did that but still feel like I left two or three out there that I left short right in the heart.  But all in all, it's a great start.
Q. You're the highest-ranked American in the field.  Why was it important for you to come to this event coming off playing in México last week?
PATRICK REED: Really the big thing was I only needed one more event to keep my card on The European Tour.  I've always enjoyed playing on both tours and having both memberships.  It was a pretty easy decision to kind of come over and play in this event.  I was lucky, I thought I needed two since I didn't know Presidents Cup counted as on event.  It was nice enough to find out Presidents Cup counted and this is the only one I needed.
Q. Still searching for your first win of the year.  How important is it to get that possibly this week?
PATRICK REED: It's important but really the biggest thing for me is just improving my golf swing, improve around the greens and improve in all areas.  Hit the ball well, putt well.  I feel like earlier this year either I hit the ball well that day and didn't make any putts or I hit it great the following day and missed putts.  Been inconsistent on what shows up and what doesn't.
I feel like the hard work I did with my coach right after México really paid off coming to this week.  I felt like yesterday I put in a lot of good work.  I felt like the swing was right where it needed to be, and you know, I woke up this morning, had this really awful pain in my back, close to my shoulder.
Yeah, the warmup wasn't how I wanted to.  I was kind of spraying it, and then my caddie just looked at me and reminded me, "Hey, you're a gamer, not a range guy.  Let's get off to a good start, hit some fairways and hit some greens."
Any time you can start birdie birdie, it gets you started and I was able to right the ship and make some putts and hit some good shots.
Q. Was it patience after the first two birdies; you had a run of pars but then more birdies came for you on the back nine.
PATRICK REED: Yeah, I don't know if it was much patience was I didn't hit it as close.  You had a couple tucked pins through that kind of stretch and misjudged the wind on 3 which normally is a gettable hole.  I had no fairway and only 165 yards and ended up plugging it in the bunker and getting it up-and-down.
Missed the green on 4 and got that up-and-down.  I really don't know if it was as much patience as I got kind of out of the rut early on and was able to get back on track making some putts.
Q. Equals your best round here.  Last time you played here you shot 65.  It was a bit up-and-down that week.  Hopefully the consistency over the weekend will see you to a better than that 10th finish.
PATRICK REED: Yeah, it's really all I can hope for is just keep on playing some solid golf and put myself in position, because you know, I think last year, that round came on the second day, but the first day wasn't the greatest round.
I got off to a better start.  Hopefully I can continue doing that, and if I improve every day compared to last year, should be all right.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT