DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 18, 2017
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Those four birdies put a more positive spin on the round?  
PATRICK REED: Yeah, it definitely feels frustrated, starting the round, feel like I'm hitting the ball really well.  Missed two fairways all day, hit the first seven fairways in a row and only missed two greens.  Problem is I missed in the wrong spot on the par 5, 2, and ended up walking off with bogey after hitting a perfect drive.   
You know, just a soft 4-iron; you try to hit a soft 4-iron on 4 and I tugged it and put it in the left bunker, which is dead.  I put myself in a bad spot early on that cost me from making any birdies.   
The greens I hit later on on the front nine, I just didn't capitalise on making the putts.  My caddie and I looked at each other and he goes, Hey, you're hitting the ball well.  You're putting well.  Let's just give ourselves opportunities on the back nine.  You've shot a low number on the back nine before.  You can do it again.   
Hit it close on 11.  Made birdie there.   
Lipped-out a putt on 12.   
I was sitting there going, all right, you have some gettable holes coming up, and you know, to knock it on the green in two on 14 for just an easy 2-putt birdie.  To hit driver and knock it on the green on 15, and being able to 2-putt for birdie, as well, those two holes definitely made it a lot easier.   
Just continued the solid ball-striking which allowed us to hit it close on 17.   
And 18 was just -- I was in-between numbers and put where I thought was the smart play, put it in the back of the green and take the water out of play.  Hit a perfect putt to 12 feet and was able to make that to cap off the round.   
 Q.  Is that indicative of this golf course; that sometimes good play is not necessarily rewarded with good scores?  
PATRICK REED: For sure.  This is one of those golf courses where you feel like you are playing the conservative, smart play and next thing you know, you're struggling to either 2-putt or whether it's to make birdie or par.  Rather than some of these holes, it's almost better to be aggressive, and if you miss it short-side or you miss it short and right, rather than putting it on the green, a lot of those kind of situations, it's easier than having that 80-footer because you're going to have so much slope.   
They love putting these pins at the bottom of ridges.  So if you're on the wrong side of it, if you hit a perfect putt, some you can hit to eight, ten feet, which is the best you can do.   
 Q.  The four late birdies have brought you back up the leaderboard and you still go into Sunday in contention for this championship.  
PATRICK REED: That was the big key.  Coming in today, I feel like if I hit the ball a little better, play some better golf, either get up there and be in the lead or at least get up there and have a chance to win the golf tournament going into tomorrow.   
You know, I felt like that late rally right there at the end of this round really got me back into it and allowed me to feel like if I go out and play a good round tomorrow, I have a chance.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT