WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
October 27, 2017
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How was that?  
PATRICK REED: It was a frustrating day.  I felt like early on, I made the turn at 2-over par, birdie-free on the front nine.  The bogey on 2, felt like I was doing the smart play by taking a club that took the water out of play; if anything, it was going to go in the back bunker and doesn't cover the water by probably 30 yards and make bogey there.   
7, the easiest hole on the back nine, or the front nine, to make bogey there, as well, and to miss a good amount of putts on the front, it was frustrating.   
The back nine, just felt like I was playing the same way I was on the front.  Felt like I was hitting the ball decent, giving myself some looks, and putts started to fall.   
 Q.  You must be pleased with your patience, after what happened on the front nine, going to the back nine.  
PATRICK REED: I think that's the key around here.  I've learned to not press too hard on the front nine here because there's scoring opportunities on the back.   
But at the same time, I think the most frustrating thing was, you know, my caddie and I, we felt like on the front side, we only hit, really two, bad golf shots.  That was the tee shot on 7 and the second shot on 7.  Yet the two easiest holes on that side, we bogeyed.   
2, with how the wind is today, and yesterday, if you hit driver and it's in the fairway, you have iron in your hand.  It just kind of one of those things that I felt like I got nothing out of my round and was still able to shoot 2-under and stay in the tournament.   
 Q.  Coming back to the second, does it show how hard it is to judge coming out of this rough?  
PATRICK REED: It is, because on the second, I had a perfect lie.  The ball is sitting up and I'm looking at this thing thinking I could hit driver if it was any other hole.   
I knew long is okay because there's a bunker back there, and I knew short is no good because there's water.  You know, it was a perfect number with wind -- with how the wind was, and everything, it was a perfect number for a 4-iron just to kind of land right next to the flag; I even hit one more than that, just to take the water out of play.  I was like, all right, if it goes in the back bunker, my bunker game is great and there's no problem.  Wasn't even close.   
You have that, and then you have other shots where you look at it and it looks like it's going to fly and next thing you know, you could hit a sand wedge 170 yards or 90 yards.  So you know, fairways are key around here, and I feel like I've done a pretty good job on that this week.  Just the one time I didn't, it definitely cost me.   
 Q.  Even though despite the round, you're still very much in contention.  
PATRICK REED: Yeah, to feel like I got my bad round out of the way ask still be in the golf tournament, that means a lot.  To shoot 6-under yesterday, and feel like I played steady and patient.   
After I made par on 9, and really, haven't made my first birdie yet, made two bogeys and I'm sitting there on the back nine, and Kessler looks at me and goes, "Hey, stay patient.  Continue hitting golf shots.  Let's just get looks.  Your putter is working.  Just get yourself some looks and you'll make one."   
Next thing I know, I gave myself a look on 10, made birdie.  Hit it close on 12 and made birdie.  Gave myself a look on 14, birdie.  You know, that's just what I needed to do.  I just needed to give myself looks, keep the wedge out of my hand and just allow the putter to work.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT