TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 25, 2017
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Patrick, after the last two weeks, how much momentum does that give you going into what is a busy stretch coming up?
PATRICK REED: Oh, it gives me good momentum.  I feel like I've been playing some solid golf.  Really for us Zurich, it's just the biggest thing is there's that one round that kind of kills me.  I mean, yesterday, only missing three fairways and three greens and having 34 putts, it's absurd.  It's something you can't do.
Even today I had three three-putts, and still those are just things that cost you winning golf tournaments.  Yeah, you can get away with a couple of those to end up having a decent finish.  But to win golf tournaments, you can't do things like that.
Q. 4-under one of the best rounds of the day with three three-putts, so you were right there.
PATRICK REED: Yeah, it was close.  It was there.  I thought I was hitting the smart shot on 8 to hit it past the flag to the middle of the greens, which was kind of an awkward number for me.  That putt is just so fast where they had that pin placement.  So three-putt there.  Making par from the middle of the fairway on 6, the par-5, and a short putt missed on 1 and then the three-putt on 12, and three-putt on 15 after hitting the green in one on 15.
There were just things that turn a great round into just a good round.  You know, it was out there to be had today, especially when the wind was down early, you could go out and attack this golf course.  But the back nine showed a little bit of its teeth with the winds picking up.  It was just one of those things.
Q. You spend a lot of time with Jordan.  Considering what he's doing today, what impresses you most about him?
PATRICK REED: He's consistent.  The guy makes a lot of putts.  Like yesterday he holed a great chip on 6 and hit some solid chips, but he made a ton of putts.  So even when you're not hitting the ball very well, if you can make some putts, you're going to turn even to 1-over par rounds to under par rounds.
Q. Is that part of the competitiveness you've seen in him, you've seen in the Ryder Cup?
PATRICK REED: Yeah, but it's always been Jordan.  He's always putted pretty well.  Ever since I've known the kid, it's just kind of one of those things that hasn't really changed.
Q. You like this tournament, this course?
PATRICK REED: I love this place.  I wouldn't be here since 2012 if I didn't love this place.
Q. What is it?
PATRICK REED: I just think it's awesome.  It's an awesome change of pace, and just an awesome venue and awesome place.  My wife and I really enjoy coming here.  It's a lot of fun.
Q. What is your schedule between now and the British?
PATRICK REED: Well, I play next week, and then from there it's a big question mark.
Q. Next week at Quicken?
PATRICK REED: Yeah, playing next week and then I don't know what I'm doing after that.  It's either going to be Greenbrier, it's going to be Scottish, or who knows.  I have no idea.  I'm still trying to figure that part out.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT