MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 6, 2017
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  PATRICK REED: The conditions are fine. It's blowing 40 and at least they slowed down the greens a little bit so the balls would stay. But it was consistent all day. It was just blowing. 

Q. Tomorrow what are you going to have to do?
PATRICK REED: Make putts. You can't play this golf course having 36 putts. Hit 13 greens, and had two iron shots that were just on the fringe and you have 36 putts. I gave myself a lot of opportunities and made absolutely nothing.

Q. How disappointed are you on the finish on 18?
PATRICK REED: That's normal. I bogeyed that hole I think every time but twice in the time I've played here, in my career. I mean that's kind of normal, making a bogey. I was actually more impressed that my drive wasn't further right, because normally I'm so far right in that bank of trees I have the scoreboard in my way. And it's just the story of my day. You either have a putt like that for birdie or a putt like that for par and you don't make it.

Q. Do you take any positives from the round?
PATRICK REED: Yeah, I was hitting the ball better. I gave myself opportunities. I hit the ball better than I ever have since I played here, but made nothing. 

Q. Do you struggle more with the line or with the speed?
PATRICK REED: I don't know. Probably more line. I didn't leave anything short. I didn't hit anything like running by. Everything was a tap in. I had two three‑putts today and I consider if you're just on the edge of the green, if you're using a putter, I consider it a three‑putt. So I was just off the green on 17 and three‑putted. 
And I had a putt on No. 2, which I actually hit it on the green in two, but I was on the front right edge of the green and three‑putted up that hill. Besides those two the speed was fine. Everything was a kick‑in after my first putt. The problem was I just didn't make it.

Q. Frustration? All time high?
PATRICK REED: All time high. I'm sick and tired of hitting the ball well and putting like shit or hitting the ball like shit and putting great. I'm just about sick and tired of the year already about not hitting the ball and putting the way I need to. I'm hitting the golf shots‑‑ I feel like I'm hitting quality shots, the ball just isn't going in the hole. At the end of the day I'd rather hit the ball horribly and have good scores than hit the ball well, and feel like you're putting well, and the ball is not doing what it's supposed to and shooting high numbers.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT