CIMB CLASSIC
October 19, 2016
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ALEX URBAN: We'd like to welcome Patrick Reed to the interview room here at the CIMB Classic.
You've been one of the hottest players in the last few months, a win in the FedExCup Playoffs, nice finish there and obviously your performance in The Ryder Cup.  Talk about the start of this new PGA TOUR season and being here at the CIMB Classic.
PATRICK REED: This event is very important to all of us.  It's kind of one of these events that you want to get off to the right start to start the season.  Also, you want to finish off the year correctly.  You know, the calendar year, this is one of the last events you play before you have a little bit of a break.
So it's very important.  It's one of these weeks that it's very nice to come over and awesome golf course, but you make the best of it, and go out and play some good golf.
Q. Just wondering in terms of your goals, what have you got in the short term, medium term, long term?
PATRICK REED: Really short term is just continue working on what we've been doing.  Just improve on the things that I've been feeling like I've been struggling.  One of those is consistency on ball-striking, and really, to win golf tournaments.  Keep on getting ourselves in contention and close off some events.
I made a really good run last year at the end of this year, I think it was five out of six events I played that I was Top-10 in the end but I didn't win.  I would like to turn some of those Top-10s into wins in hopefully that last part of the year and carry some momentum into January.
Q. Being No. 1, is that one of the goals?
PATRICK REED: It is.  But I wouldn't really say that's kind of short term because it's a long ways away.  I would need probably a major, a major win, and a couple other wins, as well, to get to that spot.
Q. Can you talk to us about The Ryder Cup experience?  That was like something else.
PATRICK REED: Yeah, Ryder Cup was amazing.  That was my fourth time representing the country playing in some kind of team event, and you know, that was the first one finally at home where I was on home soil, playing in front of our home crowd.
You know, the first Ryder Cup I played in over at Gleneagles, I played really well, but it felt so empty because the team didn't win.  Even though with me playing well, at the end of the day, it didn't feel that great because the ultimate goal is to get the cup back and have the team win.
So this year, with how we all played and to play the way we did, and the fans were just insane.  I mean, they were so energetic and kind of allowed everyone else to be even more energetic.  Because of that, kind of pulled us through and helped us play a little better, and you know, allowed us to keep the Cup.
Q. What has been the key to your consistency?
PATRICK REED: Really I just think it's the hard work we put into it.  The easiest way to become consistent at something is to practice it over and over and over again.  We've put in a ton of reps with it, with every aspect of the game and it's starting to show on the consistency level.  Now I just want to take the consistency I had last year and just kind of bump it up a little bit where the consistency gets even better where Top-25s get turned into Top-20s and Top-20s get turned into Top-10s and Top-10s get turned into top 5s or wins.  That's just all about trying to have your bad days get a little better and have your good days hopefully improve to great days.
Q. So how are you getting used to the heat here now?
PATRICK REED: It's hot.  But I live in Houston, in Houston, Texas.  I see a lot of this kind of weather.  It's 90 to 100 degrees and I have the 85 to 95 percent humidity on top of it.  If feels a lot like home.  I think the hard thing for us coming over is not the heat but the time change.
The jet-lag, flying from home Sunday is when we left but we get here Tuesday morning, and so I got in yesterday.  I stayed up yesterday and I was up for close to 48 straight hours.  So body is a little tired.  But I slept great last night and get to bed early tonight, I should be well rested and good to go for tomorrow.
Q. So what's the game plan for this week?
PATRICK REED: Win.  Go out and try to win a golf tournament.  The easiest way to do that is to make sure that we're very comfortable off the tees and comfortable around the greens.
The good thing is it's my fourth year in a row playing, so I'm comfortable with the golf course.  I know what to expect and you have to mentally be strong around this golf course because out in the middle of nowhere, the horn blew right before I came in.
You're going to have times that you're going to come off the golf course because of a weather delay.  It's just like anywhere that is hot and humid; a thunderstorm is going to brew and come up very quickly.  It's just something that you have to mentally be able to handle.
Q. Is it still ten percent inspiration and 90 percent perspiration?
PATRICK REED: I would say it's probably close to 80/20.  You know, there's nothing like having that drive and that kind of motivation from things you saw growing up to things you see now that just kind of keep you going where you can turn a four- or five-hour day into six or seven because you want to get that much better.
I also feel like I've grown up a lot since I've turned professional and I kind of know what my limits are, because you can also overdo things.  So I felt like I've really figured out with my coach and my team of what works best for me and how much time I can spend out on the golf course and how much time I can think about golf.
It's key, because any day on the PGA TOUR, you have to be mentally and physically ready because things could get sideways pretty quickly.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT