BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 7, 2016
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How would you describe this Pete Dye design?  
PATRICK REED: I think it's a great golf course.  Kind of gives you a lot of optical illusions.  There's a lot of bunkers you look at and you say, oh, there's no chance to get to them, and next thing you know you hit it over those.  And you have others that you think are only a hundred yards away, but they end up 300 yards away.  It's a typical normal Pete Dye design where you really have to trust where your targets are off the tee and it's just kind of one of these golf courses you play to points.  And I'm used to that, I love Pete Dye golf courses.  So it's something I'm used to.   
 Q.  This is the third event of the playoffs, does it feel now like to the race to the FedExCup and the 10 million dollars is really heating up?  
PATRICK REED: Not really.  Not to me.  Because I'm just playing each event like I normally do, just trying to take care of business and get the win.  Because if you do that, that just takes care of everything else.   
 Q.  Having said that, you took at the top of that list and there's a lot of great players there, does that add a little bit of spice that the best players in the world are all playing well right now?  
PATRICK REED: Yeah, it just shows that throughout a whole year, when it comes down to playoffs, the top players in the world are going to be close to that top.  And that's why, consistent play and good play throughout the entire year, why it pays off in the end.   
 Q.  Obviously, you're here to win as you are every week.  But is there a subplot agenda in there, you just got to retain that place in the top-5, so you control your own destiny, do you think?  
PATRICK REED: Honestly it's not.  Because I figured if I go out this week and I worry about trying to stay inside the top-5 or I worry about trying to keep that one spot, then I'm actually getting sidetracked from what I'm really trying to do and that's go on to win golf tournaments.  Like I said going into Barclays, I was that bubble boy for Ryder Cup, but I knew that, instead of trying to worry about people hopping me or me trying to pass people, if you just go out and just win a golf tournament, that takes care of everything else.  That's the kind of mindset I'm trying to have for this week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT