THE BARCLAYS
August 26, 2016
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What a great start to your round today.  You birdied three of the first four, got a little nervous there for us at the end, great birdie at 17.  Your thoughts on how you played today?  
PATRICK REED: I felt like I played solid.  I felt like I had two mental mistakes today, and kind of swayed a little bit away from the game plan on two holes.  Both of those I bogeyed.   
It was just kind of one of those things that yesterday I felt like I hit my driver probably a little better but today I definitely hit my irons a lot more solid and better than yesterday.   
As long as I continue with my game plan, continue playing like I am right now, hopefully I just keep putting pressure on everybody, keep shooting lower numbers and keep shooting under par and hopefully everyone will try to chase me.   
 Q.  The 5-iron on 17?  That was pure.  
PATRICK REED: It was a perfect number for a hard 5.  Any time I have a full swing and I have a pin on the left, I usually have a green light.  After giving one up on 16, which I felt like if anything, I should have birdied with sand wedge from the fairway, walking off with bogey there, it was nice to get one back.   
 Q.  Mentally, what's your state now?  I know that's a grind coming down the last four holes, especially the back nine.  
PATRICK REED: I feel fine.  I feel good.  Really the main thing is just to continue hitting good golf shots, because even if you have a perfect game plan, if you hit a poor golf shot out here, you're going to get penalized for it.  The rough is real thick.  If you get in the bunkers late in the day, you can't really spin them.  The greens get crusty.  You have to be sharp on your ball-striking.  I think that's key around here.   
 Q.  How would you assess your second round?  
PATRICK REED: I don't think it was as good as yesterday.  Today I felt like I didn't hit the tee shots quite as well as yesterday but my iron play today was really good.  I had two mental mistakes today, unlike yesterday, where I strayed from the game plan when I shouldn't have.  Both those holes I made bogey.   
I need to stick to my game plan.  I know my game plan works.  Even if I have a stretch where I make a bunch of pars, I just have to stick with it like I did yesterday.  Today I got a little antsy on a couple holes and it seemed to bite me.   
In the beginning, I know that front nine, you can score.  I felt like I did that pretty well.  Then all of a sudden I see a left flag on a par 3 and I'm like, all right, I'm a drawer, so let's get a little aggressive on this.  What do I do?  I miss it just a fraction left, and that's the one spot you can't miss on that green, and I go and I put it there.   
And then on the last hole, there's no reason for me to hit driver on a hole that's downwind, even though it's off the right.  I hit a solid drive.  I just pulled it about two yards too far left and caught the bunker.  From there, you can't really get to the green up against that lip.  Just kind of mistakes like that that you can't have, and I did a great job yesterday on it.  I did really a great job today through the first seven or eight holes, and had one on 8, but I hopped right back on it.  I just need to stick with it for the full 18.   
 Q.  Take me through 17, arguably the shot of the day.  
PATRICK REED: It was a perfect number.  I had I think 210 flag, but my stock 5 is 215 and it's another green light, flag left.  I hit a hard 5 into and off the right, started up the middle, I saw it turning.  And when it came off the clubface, I knew it was good, but I didn't realize it was that good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT