WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2016
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You won this tournament in 2013.  You mentioned yesterday you regretted not coming last year.  
 What does it mean to come back?   
PATRICK REED: It means everything.  It's where I got the first one.  It's the only win so far with Justine on the bag.  Anytime you can have a win with your wife on the bag and how hard we worked in 2012 with the Monday qualifiers, didn't have status, getting your Tour card through Tour school in 2012.   
The following year I didn't feel the year was going as I wanted it to go and coming into the final event of the year and come in and cap off with a win means everything.   
Just a special place to us and one of the places I need to come back and play.  I'm off to a good start.  I felt like I left quite a bit out there today.  Anytime you shoot 4-under in the 1st Round you have to be pleased.   
 Q.  Last week, of course, an opportunity of a lifetime at the Olympics.  What is it like to return?  
PATRICK REED: You know, it just kind of feels normal coming back home.  Anytime you can come back home and jumping right back into competition -- I wasn't going home, I wasn't watching a lot of TV and all that kind of stuff since I didn't have a week off, I had to get back in the mindset go play some more good golf and keep on grinding.   
I really haven't settled down and thought about last week and reflected on it yet because I still kind of in grinding mode to play.   
 Q.  Of course, Ryder Cup coming up.  What do you have to do to keep your spot?  
PATRICK REED: Play well.  Really, I'm not -- I wouldn't say I'm in the best spot but I'm not in the worse spot.  Everybody has to chase me since I'm in the 8th spot.  It's kind of one of those things I'm going to play at a place that I'm pretty comfortable at.  Playing good golf.  Tighten it up a little bit.  Even though I felt I hit the ball decent there's a couple loose iron shots there, three putts inside of ten feet I missed today.  I need to clean those up and turn these 4-unders into 7, 8-unders would get the job done.   
 Q.  Thanks Patrick.  I appreciate it.  
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT