TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
August 2, 2016
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We'll get started.  Like to welcome Patrick Reed into the Travelers Championship mdia center.  Patrick is making his fifth start at the Travelers and is No. 8 in the FedExCup standings.
Talk about your preparations for this week.  Really in fine form after a couple top finishes at the Open Championship and PGA.
PATRICK REED: The main thing for me is I feel like I'm hitting the ball decent.  I wouldn't say I'm hitting it exactly how I want to, but it's good enough to get the ball on the fairway and on the greens.
For me it comes down to how I'm going to putt this week.  After having a pretty long stretch of five weeks in a row, British being my fifth and a short week off and PGA, it's more keeping my energy level up and the energy is high going into the tournament, so come Saturday and Sunday I'm not burned out.
THE MODERATOR: Nine top 10 finishes this year, which is your career best.  Two runner-up finishes.  How important is it to get back into the winner's circle.
PATRICK REED: It's always important.  Any time you can get a W it's always nice.  You know, my game I feel like is trending in the right direction.  There are a lot of good things I've been doing, especially on consistency.  This year kind of has shown that with having the most Top 10s I've had in a season.
The main thing for me is keep moving forward.  My time will come.  I just need to keep improving every aspect of the game, and hopefully I'll be in the winners' circle.
THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. Like you said with playing so many in a row, with the Olympics on the horizon was there any debate about going to the opening ceremonies or here, and why choose here when you have that going on end of the season?
PATRICK REED: Well, I love this event.  This is my fifth of appearance, and it's an event that I truly enjoy coming to.  My wife and I love the area.  Love the support of the people.  Love the golf course.
It's a place that we really wouldn't miss.  We love to come and would love to continue to come for years upon years.  It was a pretty easy decision for me to come over and play.
I had it set in the schedule to come play before.  At that time I wasn't in the Olympics.  DJ kind of helped me out there.  So I wasn't going to change my schedule just for that.
Q. Is it to pace yourself with the trip going to Rio?
PATRICK REED: It's important.  I felt like I've done that really well for my career.  I've played 35 to 37 weeks last year, season.  It's going to be about 35 or 36 this year.
Yeah, I feel like I got this schedule knocked down where I can go home and rest some.  It's just kind of one of those things.  I love to play.  I've been trying to cut back the schedule, but I really don't know how.  I love to compete and I love to play, so for me, I feel like I'm always going to be a low-to-mid-30s events a year guy.
Adding one more like the Olympics, no problem for me.
Q. Speaking of that, plans?  I assume you are flying straight from here Sunday night.  Any events you'll go to?
PATRICK REED: We got the schedule for all the other events that were going on.  Being first time going to the Olympics, I want to see as many events as I can.  I know going to see swimming would be one of our top priorities.  Justine Kessler and the rest of their family are swimmers.  They always swam through school.  Now me, if they had doggy paddle in the Olympics I would win gold.  I'm the best that.
But just kind of one of those thing that would be awesome to see, especially to see Phelps go out and swim.  Only got to be able to see it on TV, but it would be awesome to see it in person.
We don't even have tickets for swimming yet.  Going to get the schedule here shortly so I can look and fit in the schedule.  Not only the schedule we have to perform, but also the other schedules so we can see where we can fit other events.
I would say we'll go to three or four other events.  Just kind of one of those things you have to wait and see first.
Q. Patrick, two questions:  Growing up, did you have a favorite Olympian that you watched, some athletes that you admired?  And although, your pride if playing for Ryder Cup teams, Presidents Cup, and now the Olympics, can talk about that.
PATRICK REED: Yeah, you know, I'm obviously very excited to play for the Olympics, if you couldn't tell.  I'm in red, white, and blue today.  I'm debuting the Olympics bag today and carrying that this week.
Just really cool.  Thought it would be great for the fans to see.  Only time they'll see it is on TV at the Olympics, so I was glad to be able to pull it out and wear the colors proud this week.  Be a lot of fun.
Growing up, of course everyone has watched Phelps.  What he has done is outstanding.  Also grew up and I remember watching speed skating a little bit.  It was just so fast.  At that point it was Apolo Ono.  It was crazy how fast they can race and turn on the ice.  They make it look so easy, too.  It's actually very hard.
I used to skate a little bit when I was younger living in Pittsburgh.  It's very hard, nonetheless trying to stop.  I can't imagine going at that high rate of speed.  You're almost sideways on the ice and in control.
Q. You kind of answered one of my questions a little bit.  In your brief trip home, what was it like when you started to open the boxes up and pull out the Team USA gear?
PATRICK REED: Oh, it was amazing.  We got two boxes at home.  I got the clothing that I am wearing for the actual tournament and then the golf bag.  When I opened up that box I was just like, Oh, my God, this thing is amazing.  I can't wait to carry it.
All of a sudden when I arrived here yesterday was when all the other gear was actually here on site.  Opened that up and it was like a kid at Christmas.  Just over there opening and showing every piece to everybody.  It was amazing.
It's so cool when you're opening any kind of gear when it has the red, white, and blue, when it has Ryder Cup, Presidents Cup.  When you get to go and represent your country it just means so much to me.  I can't wait to get over there and actually start playing.
Q. Are you thinking about the Ryder Cup now since you're so close and you're going to miss the week next week when you're in Rio in the John Deere and the points?
PATRICK REED: No, it's definitely a thought.  I've been thinking about playing for Ryder Cup my whole life.  Playing in my first one in '14 and playing really well at that event, seems like match play and that kind of atmosphere brings out the best in me.
I'm going to try to play the best I can here and through playoffs to hopefully secure my spot.  When I got the call to represent the U.S. at the Olympics, there was no doubt that I was going to go play.  Whether it was Ryder Cup points or anything like that, didn't matter.  Anytime I can wear red, white, and blue I'm going to do and I'll be on the first flight.  Pretty easy decision for me.
Q. Rogers Cup and Presidents Cup you turn it up another notch.
PATRICK REED: Yeah, you know, I'm not a mind reader so I wouldn't be able to tell you.  Honestly, I feel like it would be pretty easy for me to turn it on.  Just something about being able to wear your colors that just gets me going.  You know, I don't want to say, but just sitting here right now I'm having goosebumps just thinking about it.
When I got the word I was able to carry the bag this week to show the fans, the Olympics bag, just the thought of that, putting the clubs in this morning, adrenaline was going.
I was thinking, All right, I'm going to go to the driving range and hit my first driver yards to the fairway.
Of course that didn't happen, but just kind of that mentality of being able to represent your country.
Q. What would you rather win:  Gold medal, Masters, U.S.  Open?  All of the above?
PATRICK REED: I was about to say all three would be nice.  All in to the same year.  Can't do that already, so that wouldn't work.
Oh, man.  Yeah, it's hard to say.  They're all different.  You have Masters, and that's the green jacket.  Growing up as is a kid, you're on the putting green hitting putts and you're like, All right, this is the 72nd hole to win the green jacket.
Then you have the U.S. Open where it's your national open, another major.  You're sitting there doing kind of the same thing on the putting greens as a child.
Then the Olympics, I mean, to me, I never thought I would have the opportunity to play for a gold medal.  Having that opportunity just heightens everything.  That's every four years.  Honestly, I would love to have all three, but I honestly could not sit here and pick one for you.
Q. (No microphone.)
PATRICK REED: No, just the bag.  I'm going to leave the rest of the stuff as a surprise for when we get down there.  Probably post some pictures so everyone can kind of get a preview and see some things.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT