SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
March 30, 2016
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOHN BUSH: Thanks for joining us for a few minutes.  Six Top-10s in just ten starts this year.  Obviously got to be happy with the way you're playing.
PATRICK REED: I feel like I'm playing solid.  I'm improving on some things I needed to work on from last year, and, you know, I just hope I will be able to close off one of these sometime soon because we've had a lot of opportunities.  Just haven't quite closed one out.  Hopefully we can get that going and have it either be this week, really love it to be next week, just have to wait and see.  I just need to keep on doing what I've been doing.  Hit some quality golf shots.  Give myself chances coming down Sunday.
Q. How much are the Olympics on your mind being on the American team?
PATRICK REED: It's one of those things I definitely trying to make the team, not only the Olympics, the Ryder Cup as well.  But, you know, I can't think ahead to those events.  I can't really focus too much on them.  Really all I can focus on is playing some good golf and focusing on each week at that time, because if I do my job there and I do my job each week, then come the decisions and come the time that those teams are made, you know, I have an opportunity.  But if I think too far ahead, I'm not focusing on what I'm trying to do.
Q. What would it mean if you are representing this country?
PATRICK REED: Everything in the world.  That's truly what we live for.  The first time I made the Ryder Cup team representing the country, it was the biggest thrill of my life.  To go and have an opportunity to be at the Olympics would be a dream come true.
Q. What do you like about your game right now and what's bothering you?
PATRICK REED: Nothing is bothering me.  I feel like I'm doing everything really well right now.  I need to keep the energy level up and keep playing some solid golf.  I feel like the short game is where it needs to be.  I need to put it all together and just get one, two shots better here or there because it's really close.  I just need --
Q. There's a lot to be said for the kind of consistency you're showing, right, Patrick?  You want wins.  You come out here to win tournaments.  You're leading the Tour in Top-10 finishes this season from my understanding.
PATRICK REED: Yeah.  It's always nice to lead in the Top-10 category, but I'm out here to play for W, not to finish second or eighth or tenth.  Anytime I tee it up, like all of us, we're trying to get a W and it's close.  I'm playing some really solid golf, and I feel like that's one of my keys was to become a little bit more consistent of a golfer.  In previous times, I would have a good week which would either be a win or a Top-10 and then I would have those really bad weeks, and now it seems like my bad weeks are a lot better, and I feel like even with a somewhat off week, I can still finish inside the Top-10.  That's just because of the consistency of my game right now.
Q. Given that this is your home tournament, it probably carries more gravitas than some events would.  Is it hard to stay focused on this week with the Masters next week?
PATRICK REED: Not actually at all.  It's very easy to stay focused on the week at hand.  It's something I've always been good at, focusing on what I'm trying to do at that time.  I don't get too far ahead of myself.  Not even throughout the rounds.  I don't think of holes coming up.  I think of what I'm doing right then and there.  That's something I've always been pretty good at.  It's always nice to be able to sleep in your own bed, especially a week before a Major.  I know a lot of guys like to take the week off before the Major, they want to rest up, and I mean for me I get to play at home and also get to sleep in my own bed.
Q. You don't have to answer this question because it's a moot point.  Do you think you would play this week if it weren't in Houston?
PATRICK REED: Most likely.  I love to play the week before the Majors.  I think the one week it's hard to play before a Major is the British because it's so far away.  But it's kind of one of those things that I seem to play better at a Major when I play the week before.  So through my short career playing in Majors, that seems like that's been a trend.
Q. You do realize the galleries here are going to expect another hole in one.  You will of course satisfy that.
PATRICK REED: I'll be going at all the par-3s.  I'll at least make sure I'll definitely give it a square so I can give them something to think about.
Q. On your short list of golfing thrills at a young age, that's got to be still ranked right up there.
PATRICK REED: It's definitely up there because that was my first hole-in-one in competitive golf, my second ever, and to do it on PGA TOUR event, especially in Houston, was awesome.
Q. There's a lot of guys who would love to have your trophy cabinet.  Do you feel like you're overdue for a win?
PATRICK REED: I don't know if I can say overdue or underdo.  My game is where it needs to be to have a chance to win.  I just need to close one out on Sunday and get out there a little closer where on Sunday I'm in leading in the last round or second place a couple shots back.  All I can control is playing some good golf, and if I continue improving in my own golf game, wins will come.  That will take care of itself.
Q. Is there a particular shot, any particular tournament this season that makes you go, that would cost you a title?  I haven't researched it close enough.  I realize I probably should know the answer to that.  Were you on the cusp of something great and something didn't happen for you?
PATRICK REED: Not that I can remember.  Bubba beat everybody by 50 at Hero.  That's where I finished second.  I'm pretty good at forgetting the bad shots.  It's kind of hard for me to think if there's one shot that cost me a golf tournament because usually I didn't lose any in the golf tournaments by one shot.  So, there's multiple that either were not great shots or shots I should have made that I didn't that I could probably go through if I really wanted to overanalyze it.
Q. Good news is there isn't one that sticks out.
PATRICK REED: There's not one.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT