WGC DELL MATCH PLAY
March 23, 2016
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Patrick you get the win.  All the players in the field, how much of an attitude do you need to bring into an event?
PATRICK REED: (Inaudible) a lot of these guys are pretty good friends.  We kind of respect each other, so try to keep it somewhat cordial.
The Ryder Cup is completely different.  That one week I think both teams just don't like each other for that one week.  Besides that, for a match like this and a tournament like this, it's one those things that you try to go out and play your best golf.  At the end of the day, you are playing that one guy and all you have to do is beat him by one.
Q. How much do you relish this format?
PATRICK REED: I love this format.  It's my favorite.  Any time I get to go up against the one guy I'm playing with and play a little (inaudible).  Have a good time and just one of those things I've always loved.
Q. What was the key for you today?  It was a close match.
PATRICK REED: Yeah, it was.  The first nine holes hit a lot of really good golf shots and capitalized on the putts.  He had one or two loose holes in the beginning which allowed me to get up a lot early.
On the back nine, I really feel I didn't play that bad.  I feel like I hit a lot of quality golf shots, just misjudged the wind here and there.  Had a lot of putts that just kind of burned edges.  I definitely wanted to end it before 18.  Come down 18 with the lead and need a good drive here.  That's when I just figured if you make birdie, it's over.
Q. I was talking throughout the day, especially the back nine, in college, you were great at match play and in the Ryder Cup or Presidents Cup, you have been really good, too.  Why are you so good in this format?
PATRICK REED: It's one of those formats I absolutely love.  You can go out and be like, all right, you have 18-holes to go prove yourself and take down your opponent.  It's a lot easier taking down one guy than it is 150-something guys in the field.  It's one of those things you have a knack for and it's kind of fun.
Q. Winning the first day is big in this format?
PATRICK REED: Oh, for sure.  Any time you can come out and get a lead early, it puts the pressure on him.  All you need to do if you have a lead going to the back nine, make a couple birdies.  Unfortunately, I found a divot on 10 and made bogey there from the middle of the fairway.  Then, from that point on, neither of us really made anything.  He made that long putt on 13, but besides that it was kind of scrappy golf, just a bunch of pars.  Closed one out on 17 on me.  He played well that back nine.  I just needed to hold on and try to make a couple more birdies.
Q. Ultimately it's about getting the game done.  Is that the case today?  Are you happy with the way you played?
PATRICK REED: I played well that front nine.  I hit the ball really solid on the front.  On the back I feel like I hit it solid too.  On the back, I just couldn't get the ball in the hole.  It just seemed to burn a lot of edges, make a bunch of pars.  Luckily I got up early, was able to kind of cruise on the way in.  There are some things I need to work on to go out and be successful the rest of the week.  I know what I need to do, I just need to go out there and get it done.
Q. We mentioned earlier this week about the passion and the desire, the love you have for match play.  Is it something special when you walked to the first tee this morning?
PATRICK REED: For sure.  Any time you get to go and play two and a half hours from home, it's nice.  Especially when it's match play here in Texas, you have a lot of fans.  It was fun and hopefully I can give them a good show the rest of the week.
Q. What do you do now?
PATRICK REED: I'm going to go rest.  It's going to be a long week.  Just go in and play some solid golf.  Get my mind ready for tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT