AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 14, 2016
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What was allowing you to see the ball go in the hole so well out there?
PATRICK REED: Well, I changed up little things from the previous couple days.  And I think not only was it a -- did I putt really well, but I made a couple long ones.
But at the same time I hit a lot of iron shots really close, so there wasn't that much stress on my putts.  I think I had three kick-ins today that were within three feet that had no break.  Any time have you that around a place like Pebble, it just makes those other holes a little easier, especially when you know you're going to scramble a little bit.
Q. Getting a good round in there and seeing the ball go in the hole, does that give you a little more confidence going into your next event?
PATRICK REED: It does.  It's kind been that way for the past three events, where I feel like I hit the ball real well, just didn't really make many putts.  I feel like I was hitting good putts, they just weren't going in.  To see the ball go in today and to see the ball go in at Monterrey Peninsula for that last eight holes I played where I was 6-under through that stretch, it's nice to see, because I'm hitting the ball so well.
Q. Getting into that stretch now at Monterrey Peninsula as you said, what is that zone like when you're in that?
PATRICK REED: During that stretch I was hitting the ball really well all day, and I just wasn't making any putts.  I was missing a bunch of putts short, long, mid, it didn't matter, I just couldn't find the hole.
To hit it really close on 11, that kind of jump started it, because I hit it to four feet and that putt broke a good bit.  I had to play it a cup out from four feet.  And to make that putt right there, that just gives you confidence going to the next one.
And then I went three birdies in a row by hitting it real close on all three of them, that helps your stretch.  But those are the kind of things that if you hit a really good iron shot, you have to make the putt because it just gives you that momentum and that confidence that, all right, well if I hit another good one I'm going to make birdie.  If it ends up on the green, I have a chance.
And I think that's why I did really well and that's why I feel like I did really well today is I made the first birdie on 3 by hitting it within two feet and it was just kind of a kick in, just right edge putt, knock it in the hole and just kind of gave me the confidence going for the rest of the round.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT