DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 20, 2015
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PATRICK REED: It's always been a goal of mine to come over and play well.  I feel very comfortable with how I've been playing, out of the seven weeks we've played, I've finished inside the Top-10 five times.  Haven't closed one out.  Didn't close out last week and losing in the playoff to a birdie, I'd say probably a little more determined this week to at least have a chance to come down on Sunday again.  I'd love could cap of the year with a W, that would always be nice.
Q. And playing with the guy today who beat you last week?
PATRICK REED: Yeah, for sure.  Kristoffer is a great guy.  I never really got to know him until last week.  We had a great time together even on Sunday.  You would think it would be a little bit more intense but we were out there, his caddie and him are great guys.  We enjoyed ourselves and today we enjoyed ourselves while we were out there.  Had some good laughs, had some good times.
Q. You've won so many friends in Europe since Gleneagles last year.  Has that been a conscious thing or was it natural to you?
PATRICK REED: Just kind of natural.  I've always kind of wore my demeanour on my sleeve, and went out there and get so hyped up playing against Henrik who throughout the years I've got to know pretty well.  We seem to bust each other's chops quite a bit.  It was really intense at Ryder Cup and just kind of came out and fans loved it and ever since that we just kind of ran with it.  It's been a lot of fun and glad to be back over here.
Q. When you made your famous or infamous statements after winning the Cadillac at Doral and everyone called you brash, did we just misunderstand you then?
PATRICK REED: Yeah, that's just -- depends honest out the media kind of want to spin it.  That's a huge goal of mine and if you ask any of these guys, pretty sure everyone would say their goal growing up was to become the best player in the world.  That's the goal of ours.  And if it wasn't a goal of ours, then we are probably not playing the game for the right reasons.
Q. You're No. 14 in Race to Dubai coming in and moving up in that; is your mind racing about how you'll combine everything next year on both sides of the Atlantic?
PATRICK REED: No, not at all.  I'm pretty good at compartmentalising everything and shutting things off when I'm at the golf course and then turning them on when I'm off.  Whenever I wake up in the morning, I just focus on that day, each day at a time and kind of do that.  I don't try to look too far ahead.  But we are looking forward to coming back and playing all next year and hopefully have some fun.
Q. If you win this weekend, does it make you candidate for Rookie of the Year on The European Tour?
PATRICK REED: I wish.  That would be pretty funny, but the main thing, all I have to do is focusing on playing some good golf.  We have a lot of holes left, 36, to have to go out and play some solid golf.
Q. You've had some very special rounds of late.  How does this compare?
PATRICK REED: Today I felt like it was a solid day.  Hit the ball a little better, a couple loose shots here and there.  Yesterday I didn't feel like I made a lot of putts of length and I felt like my speed was a little better today, made a couple more putts.  I still left two short ones out there that I felt like I shouldn't.  But beside that, a real solid day.
Q. After a relatively quiet starred yesterday, was there added determination today to get in the mix once against?
PATRICK REED: For sure.  I felt like I didn't really do anything well yesterday at all.  I didn't hit tee shots solid and didn't hit many good shots into the greens and didn't make any putts.  So yeah, shoot 2-under yesterday, I was fortunate because it would have been a lot worse.  Any time you feel like you played poorly and shoot under par, it's always good.
I put the switch on today, hit the ball a lot more solid and had a couple kick-ins for birdies which always helps.
Q. How was it playing with Kristoffer Broberg after having stepped back down the 18th in Shanghai with him last weekend?
PATRICK REED: It was good.  He's a great guy and his caddie is a great guy.  We enjoyed ourselves out there playing today just like we enjoyed ourselves on Sunday playing with him.  It was the first time I got to play with him and it was a lot of fun.  Today was the same thing.  We were out there just having a good time, playing some good golf.
Q. You seemed to shrug off that defeat in the playoff pretty quickly and regroup.
PATRICK REED: Golf's a game where you can't let everything distract you and bother you.  You're going to have time where you close out events and you're going to have other times where you let some slip away.  You're going to hit some good shots and end up getting bad bounces, and you're going to have bad shots and get good bounces.  It's how you handle all of it and how you move forward.  I felt like I've done that pretty well and matured in that aspect of the game to not let anything linger on.
Q. Are you enjoying being in this part of the world playing the Earth Course?
PATRICK REED: For sure, first time over in Dubai.  It's an awesome area. Looking forward to coming back and playing some more golf.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT