DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 21, 2015
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Your verdict on a third round of 68?  
PATRICK REED: Disappointed.  I felt like I hit my tee shots pretty solid today but the iron shots were okay, a little loose, and I felt like I missed a lot of putts out there.  It was kind of one of those days that I didn't see them as well as I did the last day.  The first day I saw them decent.  First day was more ball-striking if anything.  I just need those putts to fall and hopefully have a good day tomorrow with ball-striking and have a chance.   
 Q.  You've been in good form coming in, four Top 10s in a row and you have some ground to make up tomorrow.  How do you approach it?  
PATRICK REED: Approach it the same way I have every round.  Just go out and stick to my game plan.  This is one of those golf courses you start pressing and stuff, you hit some iron shots, end up on the wrong sides of holes, you're making bogey at best.   
So this golf course, if you're hitting the ball well and putting the ball well, there's a lot of low scores out there.  But just kind of all depends if everything just falls into place.   
 Q.  First time here in Dubai.  How have you enjoyed it?  
PATRICK REED: It's awesome.  It's a place I would love to come back and love to bring my family over so they can enjoy everything, as well.   
 Q.  How is your feeling on a round of 68?  
PATRICK REED: Honestly a little bit disappointed today.  Felt like I left a lot out there, especially with putts.  I didn't really make many.  Just seemed like one of those days that felt like I hit the tee shots pretty well.  Irons were decent.  Just one of those days, ball just didn't feel like going into the hole.  Some stuff to work on but we're in great position going into tomorrow and hopefully get it going and rolling early and get a chance.   
 Q.  And in your defence, that wind was tricky, wasn't it.  
PATRICK REED: The wind was blowing but at least it was from the same direction.  It would have been really difficult if it was swirling.  The first day it seemed like the wind was swirling everywhere and today it was just blowing hard but it was all the same direction.   
 Q.  While there was been a roar over your shoulder from the 18th, you're in a fine position into the final day.  
PATRICK REED: Yeah, for sure.  Any time you're inside the top two or three groups going into the last day, you're always in great position.  Hopefully I can go out, shoot a low number and have them chase me.   
 Q.  Do you get a sense of what is necessary?  
PATRICK REED: Just all depends.  If it blows like this, it's going to be a little higher than if it's pretty calm.  If it's calm, you've seen the numbers.  Guys can shoot 7-, 8-under here.  If it's really calm, you'll probably need anywhere from 7 to 10 from a guy like me who is three -- and if that roar was the right guy, maybe even four back.   
 Q.  You touched on this yesterday but enjoying a first visit to Dubai, I know you mentioned skyscrapers in Hong Kong and then in Shanghai, so that's your thought on the skyline here?  
PATRICK REED: The skyline here is awesome.  It's not as big but it's definitely as tall.  Hopefully we can close it off right tomorrow and take the family out.  We were thinking of maybe going into the Atmosphere restaurant in the tallest building.  That would be fun.  Only problem is I'm scared of heights, so we'll have to wait and see.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT