UBS HONG KONG OPEN
October 24, 2015
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What are your thoughts on a good knock on the third day?
PATRICK REED: Yeah, you know, any time you go out and shoot a mid 60s round, it's always a positive note.  But I feel like really, I felt the ball better the first two days than I did today.
But I kept the mental mistakes to a minimum today.  I didn't have any, and because I knew, I kind of in the beginning, I wasn't hitting the ball as solid as I'd like to be.  I probably played a little bit more conservative and really at the end of the day it worked out, and had a couple more opportunities and made a couple more putts.
Q. Did you get a sense of momentum and moving up that board?
PATRICK REED: Oh, for sure.  I played the front nine horribly the first two days.  I think I'm averaging like 2- or 3-over par on that side.  When I go and shoot 4-under par on the front, it kind of keeps the momentum going.
Especially on No. 9 when I hit my drive in that right bunker and only could advance it to 145 yards on the green and then hit it to two feet.  That I felt was huge and carried the momentum for the rest of the back nine, and I was able to shoot 1-under par on the back and come in safely.
Q. How do you consider the story of your week?  Looked like you got off to an absolute flyer and it stalled just a little.
PATRICK REED: Yeah, what happened that first day, started out playing extremely well and unfortunately I made a poor decision on 4 by trying to hit 3-wood, and ended up making bogey and it kind of just derailed the round and didn't really get the momentum back and slowly started making a couple bogeys coming in.
Yesterday I just didn't make any putts and today I was actually was hitting the ball a little bit worse than the first two days.  I was actually a little bit more fine-tuned on the putting and really honing in and focusing on it and able to make some putts.
Q. Are you enjoying the course and the challenge it offers, a traditional style like this?
PATRICK REED: Oh, for sure.  It's something completely different than I'm used to.  It's real short, but at the same time, if you try to play aggressive, which is very easy to do because any time you're always hitting 3-woods or irons off the tee, you're antsy to hit that driver.  It would get you in trouble.  So kind of one of these places where it teaches you to be patient and try to play your own game.
Q. I'm pretty sure I know the answer but I have to ask how you're finding Hong Kong.  Is it up to the reckoning you thought it would be?
PATRICK REED: Oh, for sure.  This place is awesome.  I didn't know what to expect from the long plane flight over since I was just in South Korea two weeks ago and flew all the way to Houston and all the way back.  We got over the jet-lag pretty easily, and this is kind of one of those places that I keep on going to bed at eight waking up at five.  Doesn't matter what my tee time is.  I'm pretty rested.
Q. But you've had a chance to see a few things and maybe do a couple of things?
PATRICK REED: Oh, for sure.  We've done a little bit of sightseeing.  It's a really nice area.  I've never really expected to see so many tall buildings.  On the stage, you have all the skylines are like New York and Houston, they are rather large but there's nothing like here.  It's good to see and it's a really well-rounded place.  There's all different cultures, all different areas.  We're enjoying it and hopefully come back soon.
Q. When you talk about the mental mistakes, what do you mean by that?
PATRICK REED: Just try to get a little too aggressive off the tee and hit a club that I probably shouldn't have and ended up missing the fairway and getting yourself in a really bad spot.  That's something around this golf course you can't do.  You have to hit in the ball in the fairway.  You just have to plot yourself around.  Even if you leave yourself 20 yards, 30 yards farther from the green; if you're in the fairway, it makes a complete difference.
Q. You identified that poor 3-wood as what derailed your round; what sort of brought it back?
PATRICK REED: I hit a good shot on the next hole.  I was just flying that first round.  I was 5-under par through like nine or ten holes, maybe 11, and then I get to that point.  It's such a short hole that all you do is hit 7-iron and sand wedge and I tried to hit 3-wood; and hit a 3-wood, next thing you know, I'm in the trees, hit it over the green and made bogey.
And then I felt like I got over it, hit a good iron shot on the next hole and then I missed a putt.  Just couldn't get any momentum going.  Couldn't make any putts I needed to make and unfortunately came in the house 3-over that day.
But you know, today with not making any of those mental mistakes -- and coming into 18, I had a crucial par putt on 18 I was able to make.  Had a good save on 17 because I ran my putt by three feet.  Those are the kind of things that if you make those kind of putts that you just keep that extra momentum that you have going on that day going on.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT