UBS HONG KONG OPEN
October 20, 2015
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Being here in Hong Kong, how excited are you to be playing this week?
PATRICK REED: Oh, I'm very excited.  I'm very excited to be back.  Any time I come over here, I really enjoy it in Asia and I haven't been back to Hong Kong ever.  Come over here, kind of see the area and see the new golf courses, I can't wait.
It's one of the places that when I first landed, my wife and I kind of looked at each other and said, we've never seen so many buildings in our life.  There's nothing like New York or Houston, which are pretty large skylines back home.  And out here, it just seems like the buildings just go on forever and ever.
It's going to be fun to not only play some good golf but hopefully go out and explore a little bit.
Q. Exciting 13 months, first Ryder Cup last year and WGC; are you starting to feel like a global player now?
PATRICK REED: For sure.  I feel like my game needs to keep on improving and just travel around the world, see the different types of grasses, different types of terrains and kind of just dish climates, because golf is so different all around the world.  You get your different courses in the States, your different courses in China and Asia, and different courses in around.
Europe.  It's just one of those things that I need to come out and feel like I need to test my game in all different places and hopefully it will pay off.
Q. When they fly here, do the Americans feel slightly out of their comfort zone?
PATRICK REED: I would say probably the first couple days but that's about it just because the time change and the flights.  It took us 16 -- I just got off of a 16-hour flight all the way over here.
So with jet-lag, you just have to know how to handle that a little bit and know with yourself and your body preparing for the week and also playing in the tournaments how it's going to affect you and what you need to do to stay sharp.  I think that's the biggest key for us.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT