THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 8, 2015
Matt Kuchar
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Jimmy Walker and Rickie Fowler disposing of that match on the green behind us.  How much chemistry did you build from a year ago at The Ryder Cup to transfer to this year's Presidents Cup?
RICKIE FOWLER: Playing the team event there definitely helped.  We play a lot of practice rounds together.  We are around each other practicing, so we know each other's games very well.  And having the experience at The Ryder Cup definitely helps us; and for this week to go out, can finally give ourselves a point.
Q. What was the key today?
JIMMY WALKER: Key was Rickie made some great putts.  Starting out of the gate, I ran one by a bit too far on the first hole, and he buries it.  And I hit a couple really good iron shots for him and he just kept burying them and burying them.
Solid play.  We had a couple 3-putts, but other than that, it was really solid putting by Rickie and hit some quality iron shots.
Q. You mentioned putts.  Anything in particular coming down to the end?
RICKIE FOWLER: Nothing really like that.  I think kind of what got us going is Jimmy made some good swings early, 1, 2, 3 and I made some putts, 1, 2, 3.
JIMMY WALKER: I think what's big for us is I squeeze one by on 1 and I gave Rickie way too much and he chewed it down and ate it and made it, and that was big I think.  That really set us up.
Good drive on the next hole.  Great iron shot, right where it needed to be, he buries it.
The par 5, we played it as good as you can play it for having to lay up, buries another one and buries another one.  Great drive, good iron shot, right into the hole, putting it right in his sweet spot.
Q. How important is it, Americans seem to be off to a pretty quick lead.  Do you guys feel that when you're on the course or you just focused on your match?
RICKIE FOWLER: It was nice to see some red on the board.  We saw we were leading some of the matches early, so it's fun to feed off of that, and at the same time to try and put your name up there and show the guys that you're tagging along and doing the same thing.
So I know we enjoyed getting out to a lead, finally getting the lead in the match and continuing to make birdies.
JIMMY WALKER: Leading, what's that feel like (laughing).
Q. Do you guys hope to be together tomorrow?
RICKIE FOWLER: Hope.  So felt like we rounded into form earlier this week.  It was nice to feel like we had game, and continuing to get better, and Jimmy felt the same way.
Q. Putting the first red on the board for Team USA decisively, 3-up in the first four holes.  How would you describe the chemistry you had out there?
JIMMY WALKER: It was great.  Rickie and I definitely felt like we played pretty well at Ryder Cup last year and we continued to hang out and play practice rounds.  It was nice that they believed in us to come out today and put up a point because we kind of had not really done it.  Just a bunch of really good halves.
Q. You had three halves at The Ryder Cup.  Is there any satisfaction in finally getting a victory as a duo?
RICKIE FOWLER: That was the first thing I said to Jimmy on the green, "We finally got a point."  Nice to do that.
Like Jimmy said, we played well at The Ryder Cup and got stuck in some tough situations and hard-fought halves.  Nice to come out today, come out, good start, early lead.  I made some good swings and good putts, and like you said, shut them down early and didn't let them back in it.
Q. What does it say about you coming out and establishing that confidence that already was in that team room?
JIMMY WALKER: It's tough.  It's the first day, you don't know what's going to happen but you definitely want to go out there and try to put the petal to the floor.  We felt good.  I know that we had a good day yesterday and I think we both felt like things were starting to shape up and we continued that today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT