THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 6, 2015
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PATRICK REED
Q. Talk about the week so far and your first experiences on the Presidents Cup team?
PATRICK REED: It's been great.  Being my first I didn't really know what to expect.  I thought it would be a lot like Ryder Cup coming over, and it kind of seems like that.  We're all hanging out, having a good time, playing a lot of good golf and kind of staying loose and just enjoying the first couple days of the week because we know how long the week can be.
Q. Are there any differences from the Ryder Cup to the Presidents Cup that you've noticed?
PATRICK REED: The weather.  The weather here is a lot better than it was at Gleneagles.  But not really, not yet at least.  We're still just kind of in the stage of hanging out with the guys, getting to know the guys a little better and just trying to stay loose and get prepared.
Q. Talk about the scores of the match play.  Are there any holes that are really good match play holes that you see out there?
PATRICK REED: Oh, on the back nine there are a couple.  11, depending on how much you're going to take off on, 14.  On 15, the par-5, if you're long enough, it's one of those kind of bait holes whether you go for it or not.  Then 18 it depends on how much you cut the corner.  Guys like me, not really much on 18, but guys like Dustin and Bubba who hit it really long, it just depends on how far right they want to go on that last hole.
Q. Talk about 14, if they were to move it up and play it around 300, 310 yards, do you like that hole at those yardages?
PATRICK REED: I do.  I think if they move it up like that they've got to put the pin on the left just because if guys are going to go for it, they can bail out left.  And if the pins on the right are a very easy chip on the left.  But if they get that pin on that left side and you go for it and you bail out left, you're toast.  It's a good hole.  It just depends on where they're going to put the pin.
Q. There are very few came from the Ryder Cup last year that were successful except you and Jordan.  Did you guys talk about that coming into the week?  What are your thoughts about playing together?
PATRICK REED: Yeah, I'd love to play with Jordan, but at the end of the day, whatever the captain decides, we're going to go with.  You know, it doesn't really matter at this point who you play with, as long as you play well.
Q. Who did you play with today?
PATRICK REED: I had Jordan, Dustin, and Matt.
Q. So Jay said that your input as players would be a lot of what he would use in regards to what you guys would do.  So at the end of the day, why would you break up a good pairing?
PATRICK REED: It just depends on who we feel we play best with and who is playing really well right now, and how we feel whether it's alternate shot or best ball.  There are a lot of things we have to take into consideration and we'll just have to wait and see.  You're not going to get it out of me.  So quit trying to ask (laughing).
Q. What do you think of the golf course?
PATRICK REED: The golf course is great.  When we played Monday, there wasn't a single ball mark on the green.  There was not a single divot in the fairway.  So golf course is really pure, playing soft, so it's just making it a little longer.  It just depends on temperature and how far the ball is really going to go.
Q. I heard from a couple guys the greens were firmer yesterday; is that true?
PATRICK REED: They were a fraction.  Yesterday we played early.  Got here, played out early in the morning.  They seem to get firmer as the day went on.  Today the same thing.  But the speed has been the same, which is the main thing.
Q. How is your form coming in now?  Can you talk about if you play well it doesn't matter.
PATRICK REED: I feel like I'm hitting the ball great.  The past couple weeks during the playoff I switched my swing a little bit, and my driver was not set up for that swing change.  Last week I spent a lot of time at home working with a different driver and now I'm hitting the ball straighter with the tee shot, so now we'll play on short grass.
Q. I've got to ask, what was the swing change and why did you make it?
PATRICK REED: I just felt like I was aiming too far right and my right shoulder was coming over the top, so I was kind of being pulled off poles, which you have to be so precise on those shots especially on timing and everything.  I felt like that's what was hurting my consistency.  So now I'm setting up more square and able to naturally use the golf club, and it's made a huge difference.
Q. Any holes out there that are great match play holes?
PATRICK REED: He already asked that.
Q. He did?  I'm sorry.
PATRICK REED: Yeah, I think 14 is a great one, 11 depending on how much you want to cut off.  15, depending on whether you want to go for it on the par-5.  It's kind of one of those holes that okay, do I want to get down there a little farther?  Do I have a chance of going for it?  It's going to depend on weather and temperature outside.
Q. You've had a lot of success in the first Ryder Cup.  Does it feel different at all than the first Ryder Cup?
PATRICK REED: From what I've seen, not really.  Kind of seems pretty loose early on in the week, and as the week goes on, I'm pretty sure it will get a little tighter up.  It kind of all depends.  I honestly don't know how it was during tournament time during Presidents Cup.  This is my first time.  So-so far the early part of the week has been pretty similar.
Q. Are you hitting the ball farther with this change?
PATRICK REED: No, my irons are going maybe five or six yards shorter, but they're a lot more consistent.  I don't set up and hit a 7-iron either 170 or 190.  It's just more consistent yardages.
The driver actually, I would probably say I'm hitting the driver a little farther because I'm catching it more on the face.
Q. This golf course, if you can compare it to a course in the states that you guys play on a regular basis so people could understand, is there one?
PATRICK REED: I would say Palm Springs.  Couple events at Humana that seem to have the same kind of temperature, and same kind of weather.  It almost looks the same, really green with some of those green rocks around greens and areas like that.  So that's what it reminds me of.
Q. Patrick, last year you had a great Ryder Cup personally.  You're a bit of a cheerleader with the gallery, does the pleasure go to you to kind of fulfill that role this time?
PATRICK REED: We haven't talked about it that much with players.  But I'm still going to fulfill that role anyways because that's kind of the guy I am.  So looking forward to it to getting out there and playing.
Q. That's kind of your personality?
PATRICK REED: It is.  I like to wear my emotions on my sleeve.  Sometimes it gets me in trouble and sometimes it works out.
Q. You're one of the young guys on the team as well, but there are plenty of them at the moment.  Just in general this year the youngsters, what is your take on that?
PATRICK REED: I think it's great for the game that young guys are stepping up and playing some solid golf.  Because at some point we're going to have to take over for our generation and the generation behind us is going to move up.  So it's good for us to get in there and get our feet wet and compete in majors.
Jordan winning a couple and winning World Golf Championship events and that kind of, stuff.  Because at some point we're going to have to take the roll over when other guys who are now getting a little older move their way out.
Q. What is the difference, 51 weeks of the year you guys are playing for yourselves.  What is the difference with a team game when you're playing for everyone else?
PATRICK REED: I think the main thing is hanging out.  When you're on the road all the time, you're not hanging out with that many guys.  You're going, practicing, and going back to your room, resting.  Now you hang out with the guys, get to know them a little better which helps out throughout the rest of the year because you get to earn a different friendship with these guys.  You know them a little better.  You know them off the golf course not just on the golf course, which is always nice.
Q. Because this year is a charitable tournament, how do you think it helps bring all the players, even though it's international versus U.S., together?
PATRICK REED: It's one of these events that we know all these guys on the international side just like the Ryder Cup on know everyone on the European side.  But we get to know those guys off the golf course as well.  We spend a little bit more time with them and be able to get to know these guys and what kind of person they are and what kind of permits they have.  So whether you're at a normal Tour event or rain delay or something like that, you get to hang out with them, talk a little more and talk about the experiences and great stories you have during these events.
Q. What do you think about this year's tournament being here in Korea?
PATRICK REED: I think it's going to be great.  The golf course is really nice, and the fans there were a lot of cheers out there even during practice rounds, which is not normal.  You don't really see that.  It's good to see.  I'm excited to get started.
Q. Have you had a chance to get out in Korea and experience it?
PATRICK REED: I haven't.  Not yet.  We plan on doing that later on this week.
Q. Did you wear the red, white and blue socks?
PATRICK REED: No, I wore black and white this time, black and white with stars.  I've got the stars.
Q. How was the green today?
PATRICK REED: The greens were great.  They're getting a little firmer, which is good.  But the speed is consistent, and they're in very good shape.  That's all we can ask for is good shape, running the same speeds.
Q. So like speedwise, the ball wasn't too fast, too slow or anything like that?
PATRICK REED: No, they could probably speed them up a little bit.  But for match play, I like how the speeds are, because you can be more aggressive, and go at it and hole some putts.  Of course, if you hit it too hard, it's going to go home and by.  But they're good speeds.
Q. A lot of players told the media that the putts would be the main thing whether you win or lose.  Do you agree with that?
PATRICK REED: Yeah, that's how it is every year.  Whether it's this event or a normal event.  The guy that's putting the best is usually the guy that wins the event.
Q. You've had a great start this year with wins from Hyundai, I believe.  And all of a sudden there is a big swing that came out at the end of the year.  So I'm sure you kind of felt a little bit of the competitiveness for something like that.  I mean, did you -- were you okay with that?
PATRICK REED: Yeah, it was hard to keep up with Jordan and Jason for sure this year, but I improved in every aspect of my game from last year to this year, and that's all I can ask for.  Hopefully if I do the same next year, I'll put myself in more positions to win golf tournaments and hopefully close them out.
Q. I know you've only been with Phil in team competitions.  What have you observed and what do you think makes him a good leader on the team?
PATRICK REED: Yeah, he's one of those guys that not only does he have great stories about great wins but also some losses that he learned from and was telling us about those and sharing those with us we kind of know what to expect.  We know how to handle a team that gets on a hot run and starts putting up some birdies and getting that board switched one color to the next.  Just those kind of things I feel like are crucial because in match play things can go south quickly.  You can see the red on the board and it starts switching blue, and it seems like a domino effect.
He's just trying to help us on figuring out ways to deal with that and just get to know players and almost everything.  He's one of those teachers that you kind of sit back and listen to and nod your head and try to soak it all in.
Q. Are there personality traits that he possesses that makes him a good leader?
PATRICK REED: Oh, for sure.  He's one of those guys that you can't really tell if he's upset or anything because he always has a smile on his face, always cracking jokes.  It's kind of one of those things that you have to get ready for and respect for.
Q. Is he funny?
PATRICK REED: He is, he's hilarious.  Especially off the golf course.
Q. Bubba said he was cracking jokes and even if the jokes aren't that funny you just laugh because it's Phil?
PATRICK REED: Sometimes.  Sometimes you just have to kind of understand and think about what he says sometimes because a lot of the times he says some things that it's like what was that?  And you get it a couple of seconds later.
But it is Phil.  If he starts laughing, just like anyone, when someone starts laughing, then another person starts and next thing you know the whole room is laughing.
Q. Who would you say is the funniest player on the team?
PATRICK REED: Kuchar, hands down.  Kuchar is hilarious.  He's one of the guys I played with today.  Even though we were all battling it out, he has no problem just cracking a joke and you don't expect it.  He'll be just silent and then all of a sudden he'll say something and everyone's cracking up.
Q. Speaking of that, what do you think of your avenue tar that's out there?
PATRICK REED: Pretty funny.  I look a lot better as an avatar than I do as a normal person.  Skinny waste, big shoulder, big arms.  My brother-in-law spent a lot of time in the pool swimming and working out.  He said those avatars look a lot more like swimmers than golfers.  Thanks, Bud.
Q. Can you critique some of the other ones if they look like some of these guys?
PATRICK REED: No, none of them look like any of them.  Phil's doesn't look anything like him, Bubba's neither, JB, no, Jordan, no.  Rickie definitely not because it's tall, and Rickie's really short.  None of them look like us.
Q. Just talk about representing your country and how special this week is for you?
PATRICK REED: It means a lot.  Anytime you can have red, white and blue on and playing for your country and hopefully playing well, it means a lot.  It's almost one of those things you can't really describe.
Q. Phil just said that playing on a team is something you don't do that often, so when you guys get together particularly on international soil, you guys really bond together and it's an unforgettable week.
PATRICK REED: For sure.  It's one of these things, since you don't do it a lot my first time at Ryder Cup, I had my guard up a little bit because you're just not used to it.  Once you play in it, it's one of those things that's wow, it's such a great week.  Throughout the whole year you're always talking about it.  Even if you lost, you're talking about the event and everything.
We had some great stories from last year that we were talking about this year.  I'm sure after this is done, we'll have more great stories to tell later on.
Q. Do you have someone on the team that is your best friend?
PATRICK REED: I'd play with anyone on my team.  I love all the guys.  I feel like we're playing really well.  It's just one of those things that whoever captain feels is the best match, that's who we'll play with.
Q. Do you like the golf course?
PATRICK REED: I do.  It's in great shape.  We're looking forward to getting back out on it and getting ready for the week to start.
Q. Do you like your avatar?
PATRICK REED: It looks better than I do.
Q. Any stories from Phil in one day, the flag pants?
PATRICK REED: Oh, a ton.  Yeah, he had flag pants on yesterday.  That was interesting to see him walk up with flag pants for our dinner.  I thought that was pretty funny.  No, he's a great guy.  He has so many great stories, and just kind of stories he's had from other events and other team events that he's played.
Q. What kind of stories?  Are they funny?
PATRICK REED: Some are funny.  Just kind of experiences he's had playing these things, especially for the rookies or guys that have only played one or two.
Q. Have you ever been in some of those money matches?
PATRICK REED: I haven't.
Q. Do you feel left out?
PATRICK REED: No, not at all because I don't even know how I would handle some of those.  It's kind of one of those things that I like to play really early, play a round myself, get done, and get going with the practice rounds and get back and rest.  That's kind of the way I've always done it, even in college.  It's kind of the way I've always done it because it's what's comfortable with me.
Q. What can he bring to the table?
PATRICK REED: He can bring a lot.  Not only leadership.  It seems he's playing really well, which always helps.  He's just one of those guys that if we're playing poorly, he'll come over and try to pick you up.  If we're playing great, he's going to come over and try to boost you even higher and get the rest of the team going.  He's a great leader and I'm glad to have him.
Q. Do you remember any special food here?
PATRICK REED: Tonight we're going to get Korean barbecue.
Q. Korean barbecue?
PATRICK REED: Yeah, tonight that's where we're going as a team.  We're going out to a restaurant and having Korean barbecue.  They're bringing out a bunch of different things.  So we haven't had it yet, but we're about to.  I'm looking forward to it, I love food.  You wouldn't think I love food, huh?
Q. Can you talk a little about the greens?
PATRICK REED: The greens are perfect.  They're in great shape.
Q. There are a lot of undulations?
PATRICK REED: Yeah, there are a ton of undulations.  They're in great shape, they're very pure and running a little slower, but I think that's because there are a lot of slopes and pretty severe slopes.
Q. Did you ever play Dove Mountain when it was in match play rotation?
PATRICK REED: No, I've heard a lot about it.
Q. Because the similarities between the two courses I've heard.
PATRICK REED: Oh, really?
Q. Maybe not so much?
PATRICK REED: I've never played.
Q. Any person or any player you'd like to to be paired with?
PATRICK REED: I'll play with any of our guys.  I like the whole team.  It's one of those things, whatever the captain says.
Q. Casey, for example was talking about maybe giving up on Europe because it's too hard to switch back and forth.  Do you feel the same?
PATRICK REED: It's tough.  After I play Tiger's and Shark Shootout, I'll be at 35 or 37 weeks of the year I'll be gone.  It's a lot.  But it's one of those things that I wanted to do it and it worked out.  We had a family member pass away right during Colonial, and that would have made it a lot easier on me because I was going to play two events right there with the Irish and Wentworth, so I would have played those two and I wouldn't have had to play five here at the end.
Q. Are you going to do it next year?
PATRICK REED: I don't know.  I kind of have to see.  Right when this is done we're going to figure out our schedule and see how it all plays out.
Q. If you might want to, you might need to finish this out.  Is that the reason you're doing it?  If you knew you weren't doing it next year, you could just bag this?
PATRICK REED: Yeah, I could.  But the only way I wouldn't play those events is if I got hurt or something.  So that would be the only way I'd miss it.
Q. What do you get out of it, playing both?
PATRICK REED: Learning how to travel a little bit better, especially with time zone changes.  In the States, it's very easy, but when you're starting to fly to different countries, it becomes tough.  Even though we had a direct flight here, a 14-hour flight, flying to Hong Kong is a long flight.  Hong Kong to Malaysia is still a five-hour trip.  Then Malaysia to China is not bad, but then China to Dubai is a long trip.  You get in Monday afternoon and it's just one of those things that seem like the weeks become a little shorter and you need to learn the golf course a lot quicker.
Q. You're flying coach too?
PATRICK REED: Coach?  Business.  Commercial, yes.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT