THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2015
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  b>Q. Can we get your thoughts on this morning, how that went for you?PATRICK REED: It went.  When we got back from the -- I'm staying 25 miles away, so when we got back to our place around 11:00 last night after the round, I mean, it was blowing 50 where I'm staying.  I'm right on the coast, and it seemed to get stronger and stronger as the night went on, and when I woke up it was still howling, to a point where a couple of my buddies that are staying with my and family members, they looked at me and go, do you actually play in these heavy winds?  I go, well, it's the British Open, probably.  We got here at -- when you're practising putting, the ball wasn't even really staying still.  I was shocked that we actually went on, and when we did go out, it was tough.  I hit a pure 7-iron on 16, pretty low penetrating one, only flew 128.  Yeah, the ball wasn't really going anywhere.  It was playing really tough.  I think the most disappointing thing is some guys only hit one shot, some guys hit none, and we had to continue playing, and we played basically a full entire hole.  That was probably the most disappointing part.  But besides that, you expect to play in wind, you expect to have some days that are going to be calm, some days that are going to be wet, some days that are going to be really windy.  It's just who can mentally be strong, and I feel like I handled that pretty well except for the short-and-loose putt I hit on 17 and the putt I left short on 18.  I felt like all in all it was a pretty solid second day.  I just need to kick it in gear and have something for Sunday and Monday.Q. Did the balls move on you on the green?PATRICK REED: No, luckily not.  We started the day on 15 green, and that green is kind of in a little bit of a bowl, so it would be hard for a ball to move on that one.  So we had that one, and then on 16 I was just short of the green on a really flat area and just short of the green it's a little thicker than an actual green.  Our balls didn't move, but we also didn't have many opportunities for them to move.Q. What did you do for 10 hours?PATRICK REED: I think there's a couch that I broke in up there in dining.  We got ourselves a corner.  They had two couches by a table, and we stayed there the entire time.  Whenever they say, okay, we'll update you in an hour, it's just not enough time for us to be able to go all the way back to where we're staying and back, so we just had to hunker down here.Q. When did you feel like it was -- did you immediately feel like it was unfair?PATRICK REED: I wouldn't say unfair.  I just think kind of a poor -- I feel like it was more kind of a poor judgment on if one group is literally just standing there on 11 and you hear they're having issues with the ball staying still you should stop play immediately.  You shouldn't allow groups to play a hole, two holes.  That's probably the concerning part.  But at the end of the day, you know, I hit I felt like three great shots and I had to stare at an eight- to 10-footer for par on 16.  That was the first thing I had to do when I came back out.  To pour that in, I felt like I didn't give anything up or lose any shots to the field on that.  I'm more disappointed on my finish on 17.  Hit the driver just barely over the green on 18 and not make birdie.  Those two kind of sting a little bit.Q. Where did you finish last night and where did you start the day today?PATRICK REED: Finish last night?  I finished on 15 green.  I was still on 15 green, and I was 1-over par today on the last three holes.Q. So you started today by putting 15?PATRICK REED: Putted 15, and then they pulled us off when we were putting on 16.  Lee and I both hit our first putt, and then right before Sergio hit his putt, the rules official ran up and halted play, and that was then during the delay we found out some groups didn't even hit a shot or hit one shot, and that was unfortunate.  It's not like it made a difference.  I probably wasn't going to make my 50-foot bomb up over a ridge and breaking five different ways.  I'm just glad I was able to two-putt it.Q. How do you look at the next two days now?  Obviously you're going to finish Monday.PATRICK REED: I like Mondays.Q. Looking ahead, knowing you're finishing Monday, what's your confidence level right now?PATRICK REED: I've got to play a lot better.  If I don't play a lot better, there's no chance.  I didn't hit the ball very well today, at least the three holes I played.  But I hit the ball pretty solid yesterday, and I just need to go back and get some rest.  I had three-and-a-half hours of sleep last night because the golf course at dark -- it seems like it's never dark here, so I mean, I just need to go back and get some rest and get ready for tomorrow and gear up.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT