THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
July 18, 2020
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. First of all, general assessment of the round?
 PATRICK REED:   Way better than the score was.  That golf course played -- being the first guy out and usually when you're first guy out on a Saturday and there's not really any wind, you're going to normally see a 66, 65, 64 from somebody on Saturday, especially early on.  They're going to go from making the cut to kind of making a charge.  Honestly that 2-under par round right there felt like a 64.  I mean, I hit the ball really well today, putted really well.  I mean, it was hard to get the ball close.  It was hard to make putts.  Even on the purest greens today, the greens were not only fast but they were so firm.  I mean, I was hitting full swing wedges that were releasing -- where they landed and finished, 10, 12 yards, and for a guy that you're used to seeing the ball land, take maybe one skip and then spin, it was tough.  It was tough to get the ball close.
 But the great thing is I felt like I hit the ball great.  Felt like I putted well.  Just a tough day.
 Q. Have you ever played as a single before on the PGA TOUR?
 PATRICK REED:   Actually I played nine holes as a single on Sunday with -- I was playing with Jason Day, and he had to withdraw on the 9th tee because of had I back, so I had to play nine holes in the middle of the round.  That was really weird, obviously.  You had fans.  It was in Denver.  Yeah, I think it was in Denver.  It was in one of the playoff events.
 You know, it was really weird because I was sandwiched in between twosomes, so I felt like I was on top of the group in front of us but then at the same time I felt like the group behind me was on top of me because there was that kind of one person.
 But it was interesting today.  I thought it was going to kind of be hard to get into a rhythm because your caddie is getting the divots, cleaning the clubs, if you're in a bunker, having to rake bunkers, getting flags, stuff like that, so you almost feel like your caddie is going to be behind and lagging all day.  But I was able to sit down and talk with my coach and talk with Kessler kind of before going into today, all right, what's our kind of game plan to keep us at a good rhythm where we're both -- none of us are kind of lagging behind.  And so we were able to figure that out, and it was weird, felt like a practice round out there today.  Felt like a practice round.  You're out there being a single, no fans allowed, so it's just you, your walking score, Kessler and that's about it.  It was kind of one of those when you hit a shot, maybe we'll try this shot, you want to go and hit another golf ball, but you can't.  It was interesting.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT