U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 20, 2015
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Neither one of you looked like you were having much fun today.  PATRICK REED: No, not at all.  Anytime you hit the ball as poorly as I did and putt as poorly as I did, it's going to be a rough day, especially at a U.S. Open.  I think the most important thing is I need to learn how to put four rounds together.  I haven't done it in forever.  Didn't even do it at Tournament of Champions, even though I won there. I need to figure it out.  It's unacceptable the way I played.  I go out there, have I think more doubles than birdies today.  It's just ridiculous.  To have a 4-putt, I could have done that left-handed. So it was horrendous out there.  And the golf course beat me.   Q.  On the range you said your game was not where you wanted it to be when you got to the first tee.  PATRICK REED: Unfortunately, I felt like I hit the ball better on the range than I did the past two days.  I went to the golf course and couldn't hit on the planet.  And the problem was I just didn't hit anything very solid.  I wasn't able to get the ball pin high.  I wasn't able to fly at the numbers I wanted to fly at. Then when I did hit it solid it was a little tugged left.  When the ball is tugged left, especially around a place that's firm and fast, the ball is going to bounce as hard as it possibly can.  On top of it I couldn't even make 3-, 4-footers.  It was rough.   Q.  The golf course itself, it seemed like it was a little more difficult this afternoon than maybe it had been at previous times during the week.  Did you feel that way?  PATRICK REED: It was a little firmer.  The wind was up a little bit.  But if you hit the ball solid and if I hit the ball like I did the past two days and putted halfway decent, you could have shot an even 1-under, 2-under.  If you really got it going, you might be able to get it to 3 or 4. But I think the best round so far this week is 5-under, I think.  So if you shoot 5-under out here you played really, really well.  And to shoot 6 over par or 5 over par or whatever I shot is horrendous.   Q.  Do you feel like you shot your way out of it?  PATRICK REED: No, 5 shots back.  If it stays firmer, faster, and the win blows, I have a chance.  I have to go really low. I don't see all the guys that are ahead of me going and shooting over par.  They might shoot even, 1-under, 2-under, I'm going to have to shoot 6 or 7 for me to realistically have a shot.   Q.  You were upset with the way you were hitting the ball yesterday.  You weren't happy standing here either.  Two different scores.  What was the difference?  PATRICK REED: Yesterday I didn't feel like I hit the ball great.  But I was landing it in the right spots where I needed to land it.  And today not only was I hitting the ball poorly, they weren't starting where I wanted them to start, they definitely weren't finishing where I wanted them to start. And my putting was just horrendous.  I hit a couple of puts yesterday and the day before, it was 7- or 8-footers that can keep rounds going.  I made two or three of those each round.  And today not only did I miss every single one of them, but I also missed a lot of 3-, 4-footers today that you just can't do.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT