WGC CADILLAC MATCH PLAY
April 29, 2015
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You excelled in match play at the Ryder Cup over at Gleneagles, now here you are winning your first match here.   Different format, obviously, different kind of format, but what is it about match play that you enjoy so much?
    PATRICK REED:   I think it's you know where you are at all times.   You're playing the guy right next to you.   For some reason whenever it comes on head‑to‑head, I love that feeling and love that pressure.

Q.   I think sometimes when you were playing over there for the first time, you were looked as an underdog, here you're a favorite, what's that like?
    PATRICK REED:   Honestly, to me it's all the same.   I don't look at any player as I'm supposed to win this match or I'm not supposed to win this match.   Any player that makes it into this field, if they're on their "A" game, they're going to win their matches.   The only thing I can do is try to grind it out and play solid golf and give myself chances.

Q.   Of all your par saves today, what were you the most proud of?
    PATRICK REED:   I'd probably say the one here on 10.   I was 1‑down on the match.   He missed a couple of short ones for birdie.   He was hitting every fairway, every green. 
    On 11, I hit a poor tee shot, and I thought I'd probably end up short but rolled about a 20‑footer for par.   And he missed about a 15‑footer for par.   He seemed in full control of that hole and I squeezed out a win.   That definitely, I feel, switched the momentum. 

Q.   It looked to me like this was a day where the short game really decided it.   Your short game was on; you were getting up and down from everywhere.   When he missed the green, he was in trouble and often he had a lot of putts that he missed?
    PATRICK REED:   Yeah, I definitely had to almost feel like I needed a little bit of help today.   I hadn't really hit the ball very well this week.   Yesterday I really struggled hitting everything right, and today it seemed like the driver was a little closer.   I need to figure out the ball‑striking, I can't keep on trying to get up and down every hole for par.   Through the first seven holes I think I only hit two greens, and you can't do that around here and expect to go much further.

Q.   You almost knocked one in for eagle?
    PATRICK REED:   I did.   I started feeling better once we finished out on 11. 
    On 10, I felt like things were starting to go well, even though I was out of the rough and I didn't hit it on the green.   I felt like I made a really solid golf swing.   I expected it to jump a little bit and it came out a little slow yet short.   It had the right shape, felt real good. 
    And from there I seemed to hit the ball a little better.   Besides two tee shots, it was kind of a grind out there and luckily I was able to get through it.

Q.   You felt like the match kind of turned right around here?
    PATRICK REED:   It did.   It turned on 10.   I was 1‑down going into 10.   I parred 10.   He bogeyed. 

Q.   I wonder if he felt it, too?
    PATRICK REED:   Yes, because he hit one bad shot on 11 where he snapped it left.   That hole sets up perfectly for me, because I hit draws.   And unfortunately today and this week, I hadn't really hit many draws, everything was hanging right and cutting.   And he hits a cut.   So I can see how that can be a little challenging for him. 
    But that definitely was the turning point.   Because I went from 1‑down to 1‑up. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT