WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 14, 2015
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Here with Patrick Reed.   Posted 8 birdies in his opening round today, just a couple of bogies.   How impressive in your mind was that 66?  
PATRICK REED:   Well, it's always good.   You know, I felt like winning this week I have to hit the shots straight and that's kind of key around here.   Even though I only hit 8 fairways to me that seems like a lot and the putter was working really well, making a lot of good putts.   I felt like my iron swings were real solid.   I'll continue doing that and keep playing the way I've been playing, hopefully I'll be able to put everything together come Sunday.  
   
 Q.   We talked earlier in the week about how strong Rickie Fowler had been, Jordan Spieth has been and Rory McIlroy and as of late you played with the World's No. 1 player.   
People seem to forget sometimes that since the middle of 2013 you've won four times on the PGA TOUR.   That being said, are you inspired to put yourself in that conversation with these great young players?  
PATRICK REED:   It's always nice to be put in that position but at the same time the only thing I'm really focusing on is improving on what I need to do to be a little more consistent and compete every week and just seems like right now the driver is kind of going a little sideways and when you're playing out of the rough on the PGA TOUR it makes it a lot more difficult.   
As long as I can continuing on working what I need to fix, hopefully at the end of the day I'll be in that mix.  
   
 Q.   Patrick, great round today.   You bogeyed 1 but put on the gas pedal and that one bogey at 17.   Your thoughts on how you played today, 6-under.  
PATRICK REED:   I felt a pretty good day.   Anytime you shoot 6-under par it's always good.   Seemed to not get off to a really good start.   Come out and shoot 66 on the 1st Round on this golf course it will build my confidence up and hopefully I can keep doing what I did today the rest of the week.  
   
 Q.   This is a course where you take advantage of the par-5s, get yourself in a position to make birdie and you birdied all of them.  
PATRICK REED:   I wasn't hitting my driver well at all in the beginning and hole 5 hit through the fairway and hit a great off wedge shot from 142 to basically kick-in range and step up on 7 when I've already been hitting the driver right the whole time, really make myself start that down the middle of the fairway and hit my draw and to be able to pull off that tee shot definitely got me in the right mind frame and got motivation to go forward.  
   
 Q.   Great sand save I thought at 11.   You had the birdie at 10 and hit it in the fairway bunker, greenside bunker.   That was a great 4.  
PATRICK REED:   I felt like that kept the round going.   That shot hasn't really set very well for me.   I've been having issues turning over the driver.   I try to hit the fairway.   Hit it in the fairway bunker and hit in the other bunker.   
Looks like a basic bunker shot and how fast it is down the hill and be able to survive with a par there is good.  
   
 Q.   Patrick, just some overall comments on your round today.  
PATRICK REED:   It's always nice to start off with a nice 66 but I felt like recently my driver has been kind of letting me down.   I felt like today I was able to keep it in play.   Even when I missed a fairway I still had a pretty clean shot to the green and the putter has been working so hopefully I can continue to do the same thing.  
   
 Q.   What allowed you to keep those drives --  
PATRICK REED:   I think it was more knowing where I could miss it and it seemed like going down the stretch and I started to get a little bit more comfortable with hitting my draw.   Recently the ball has kind of been hanging right on me and I got to get that club out in front of me a little quicker.   
Felt like today I was able to get that feeling early on and I really don't understand why the driver is so much with me, so difficult for me to turn right now because my irons are easy to turn.   
Just one of those things I've been fighting and hopefully I can continue doing it well because everything else of my game looks solidly.  
   
 Q.   How motivating is it to be part of that group, you've won, what Jordan did, last week with Rickie and then Rory?   Any kind of motivation, pleasure being part of that group?  
PATRICK REED:   It's always a pleasure being part of that group.   Motivation-wise, not really.   I know what I need to do out there.   Hopefully I can continue to build on the things I've done well and improve on the things I haven't done well to keep being in contention and, at the end of the day, if I keep improving my golf game, at the end of the day I'm not really worried.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT