MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2015
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about the round overall.   Good start for you, do you think?
PATRICK REED:   Yeah.   You know, I was pleased with the number, but at the same time I felt like I left a lot of shots out there. 
I hit some really crooked drives that just put me in some bad spots.   Around here, you can't get your driver going sideways.   And, unfortunately, I had three or four drivers that put me in positions where I couldn't even get to the green.   And some of them I couldn't even get within a hundred yards of the green. 
So, I just need to go tighten up the driver and continue hopefully making some of those downhill sliders.   That's key around here.   If I continue doing that, hopefully, come Sunday I'll have a chance.

Q.   Did you eagle 13?
PATRICK REED:   No. 

Q.   What did you take away that you brought in this year that maybe ‑‑ like let's get off to a better start?
PATRICK REED:   I didn't get off to a bad start last year.   I was 1‑under par with two to play and I go bogey, bogey.   So I didn't close out my round last year. 
This year, I had a good look for birdie on 17, unfortunately, I didn't make it. 
I actually had a pretty good look for birdie on 18 and didn't make it. 
So, I was only one shot better going into 17, but I finished the round a little bit this year. 
The main thing is my putting.   I was a little bit more aware of certain putts and kind of knew what to expect.   Last year I didn't expect the greens to get this quick and I almost felt like last year I was putting defensive. 
Now I feel like I'm putting a little bit more aggressive, just to my lines, and it seemed to be working out for me.

Q.   Talk about how the practice round, the course got a little slower after the first day, do you feel like the course is faster today?   Did you get the roll on the drivers that you expected?
PATRICK REED:   It firmed up.   If it continues to get warm and breezy this afternoon it's going to firm up some more.   It seemed like, with that morning tee time, the greens were a little bit more receptive in the beginning.   But they seemed to get progressively firmer as the round went on. 
Now, come the weekend and even come tomorrow afternoon, I'm pretty sure it's going to play a little faster and a little firmer.

Q.   Bogey at 7, right back with that birdie on 8.   Talk about how that kind of got the momentum, kept the momentum going a little bit. 
PATRICK REED:   Well, it was huge.   I actually felt like I hit ‑‑ that was one drive I felt like I hit a good drive on 7.   It clipped a tree that was only 200 yards off the tee box.   And not only did it clip the tree, it ends up against the collar on the right. 
So I had to try to hit a cut out of the collar, which came out dead and that was a putt I should have made that I didn't. 
And the bounce back, hit a really solid drive on 8 there, especially with my draw, any time you're working towards that stuff on the left is not fun.   But to be able to hit some quality shots there and make a good putt to bounce back, that was fun.

Q.   Were you disappointed about that sand shot on 7?   It seemed like walking up there you were hoping to get a little closer than you did. 
PATRICK REED:   Yeah, the ball wasn't sitting the best in the bunker.   So when I hit it I thought it would have hit and released a little bit.   I thought it would come out a little bit with more of a knuckler.   My caddie said it stopped pretty quick. 
And I saw I was 7, 8 feet short, I wasn't too pleased.   But I left myself the uphill putt.   That's one place you have to leave yourself is that uphill putt and, unfortunately, that is one I didn't make. 

Q.   (No Microphone.)
PATRICK REED:   Yeah.

Q.   Are you able to go as hard as you want to?
PATRICK REED:   On most shots.   There's only one that seemed to light me up.   It was actually 18 tee, because I tried to cut it.   So I really had to go hard at that one. 

Q.   You said last year that putting in the high 30s in those first couple rounds‑‑
PATRICK REED:   It was better today.   It was better.   The main thing last year is I left myself a lot of those five, six, seven footers, downhill sliders that, if you look at all the guys who have run the event, they make those.   And that's what I feel like I did really well so far this week. 
Today, those downhill sliders, I made them.   And that's something that you have to do around here, because you're not going to always be able to put yourself putting uphill. 
Like on 17, I hit a great iron shot in there and you cannot leave it short of that flag or it's going to come off the green.   And I hit it six feet past the hole and that was the only one I felt like got away from me on the downhill slider. 

Q.   How much more comfortable does Kessler seem out here this year?
PATRICK REED:   He seems a little more comfortable.   I feel like we have a really good game plan going into the week, so he knows what to expect from last year as well and he knows our game plan really well, too. 
So we'll see.   He's a little bit more comfortable.   You're never too comfortable around this place. 

Q.   Speaking of game plan, what do you guys tend to expect out of the par‑5s from round to round?
PATRICK REED:   Well, if we continue doing what I've been doing, I think I birdied every one of them today.   I left myself two eagle chances and, unfortunately, I didn't make any of those, but any time you play these par‑5s in 4‑under, it's always good.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT