MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2015
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You had to have been a little more pleased with your ball striking.   
PATRICK REED:   Yeah.   It seemed like today I really had to concentrate on hitting that driver solid.   Because on the second hole today at the start of the day I hit 3‑wood on one, I get on the second hole and I hit one and it felt like there was no golf ball.   And I looked down and the entire face of my club was caved in.   
So, having to play this place without a 3‑wood and only a driver, it made it tough.   I guess the aggressiveness helped at some points, but also it got me in trouble on a couple holes.   But I was able to manage and unfortunately I had two bogeys kind of later in the round, unfortunately, but besides that, it was a solid day.   It was a solid week.   
   
 Q.   What were the biggest difference from yesterday to today for you, in your opinion?  
PATRICK REED:   Putting.   I didn't really make many putts yesterday and I also didn't really hit many fairways.   To put yourself off the fairway, it's kind of hard to keep yourself below the hole.   If you're leaving yourself above the hole on the wrong spots on every hole you're putting defensive and I felt like I was doing that all day.   I had to putt defensive, I couldn't really get aggressive on anything.   
Unlike today, I was in the fairway, most of the day, I was able to leave myself an uphill putt.  
   
 Q.   When did you find out about the 3‑wood?  
PATRICK REED:   Right after I hit it on 2.  
   
 Q.   You didn't notice it on the driving range?  
PATRICK REED:   No, it was fine.   I literally have a hole in the golf club.   I hit it right in the face and the whole face completely caved in.   I can see all the way inside the head.  
   
 Q.   So it happened on the shot?  
PATRICK REED:   Yeah, it happened on the tee shot.   The drive maybe went 230.   I felt like I hit it right on the center of the face.  
   
 Q.   Has that ever happened?  
PATRICK REED:   I looked down and I'm missing part of the face.   I've never caved in a face before.   But, unfortunately, it happened to happen to the 3‑wood, it could have been any iron, any iron could have broke, because I can always choke down on another one or rip an extra one.   
But trying to play this place, especially on like 8, where it's a driver, 3‑wood easily on the green and there's no chance, because I don't have a 3‑wood.   
On 5 I usually hit 3‑wood off the tee.   
On 3 I will hit 3‑wood off the tee.   
10, 13, I would hit 3‑wood off the tee.   
So there's a lot of holes that it just kind of I had kind of wing it at that point and try to figure out what I wanted to do.  
   
 Q.   You said it happened on 2?  
PATRICK REED:   Happened on 2 right off the tee shot.   Because I hit 3‑wood off of 2.   Normally it's a 3‑wood and 3‑iron to the green and if it's into the wind I might have to hit 3‑wood again to knock it on.   But 3‑wood keeps me short of the trap and it definitely kept me short of the trap today.   
   
 Q.   Talk about your assessment of the week and how things went.   
PATRICK REED:   It was an okay week.   I know I need work on stuff.   I still need to work on consistency with the putter and off the tee.   It got me in so much trouble this week and especially that driver.   You can miss fairways out here, you can miss every fairway out here if you want, but you have to know where to miss it and miss it in the right spots.   
And I know where I have to miss them, but to make a golf swing and have the ball go somewhere totally opposite of where you want it to go, it's just something I have to go home and work on and try to fine tune everything.  
   
 Q.   No red today?  
PATRICK REED:   No red today.   I mean, I switch it up every once in a while and today, teeing off early, I know it said it was going to be 70 something degrees, but I know how humid it gets here at home.   So I said, all right, we might as well go ahead and throw on a light color, because yesterday, black on black, I was dying.   
And actually pulled it off.   I should have wore it today, but I had the blue, black and white for Augusta.  
   
 Q.   What did you use instead when you couldn't use the 3‑wood did you choke down on the driver or did you use something else?  
PATRICK REED:   I just ripped driver.   I mean, trying to choke down on a driver that we have, it already is borderline not have enough spin on it, so if I choke down on anything, it's only going to fly 240 in the air, it's going to kind of knuckle.   
I had a 3‑wood that's pretty hot.   The 3‑wood for me goes on run out 275, 280.   The 3‑iron at max, if I really roast one, and I get a good forward bounce I can get that 255.   
So, I mean, there's a pretty good size gap there and that's the last thing you want to do is hit 3‑iron on some of these holes and leave yourself 5‑, 6‑iron into the greens when you should be hitting 7 or 8.  
   
 Q.   You're one of the few guys that has seen Chambers Bay, the next site for the Majors.   What do you remember about it and how well received do you think that course will be for these guys?  
PATRICK REED:   I think the guys will like it.   We're all good at adapting and playing different golf courses.   It's not going to be a fun spectator friendly golf course.   There's some hills there.  
And if it blows and it's a little cool out there, it's going to be a tough golf course.   I remember in stroke play, the golf course was getable.   It was a little warmer, there wasn't too much wind.   
And then we had a cold front move in and it was a little chilly, rainy and blowing a little bit.   It turned out to be a really tough golf course.  
   
 Q.   Did you like it?  
PATRICK REED:   I did.   I enjoyed it.   I think it's a shot maker's golf course and you have to think yourself around that place.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about, obviously, the guy you were paired with for two days at Gleneagles is on top of the board.   
PATRICK REED:   He's playing well.   I think he's playing a different golf course than I'm playing right now.   Yeah, he has full confidence right now.   He's playing great and we'll see, I don't really know how he's doing today, but we'll see how he does for the rest of the round here.  
If he continues doing what he was doing the first three rounds and basically the last five months, he'll be fine.   
   
 Q.   The experience you had playing with him, what was the single most impressive part about him?  
PATRICK REED:   He doesn't get himself in too much trouble.   Even if he misses drives, it's not way off line.   And then his short game is good enough to manage.   
I would say his weakest part is his chipping and it's not that bad.   But his putting is just phenomenal.   He could chip with a 3‑wood, as long as he's within 25 feet, I mean the ball's going to touch the hole.   So, that's something that he's really, with that putting, with how well he's putting, I mean he's got a really good shot.   Especially if he keeps it rolling.   
   
 Q.   Next couple of events for you?  
PATRICK REED:   We're going to play next week and I think we're going to take a week off and then I think we're heading over overseas at that point.   Match Play and then after Match Play it's the PLAYERS.   
   
 Q.   No Zurich this year?  
PATRICK REED:   No.  
   
 Q.   Where are you playing overseas?  
PATRICK REED:   The BMW, and then Irish Open.   Those are the first two.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT