VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 15, 2015
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Okay. Well obviously not the outcome you had hoped for but you hung in there incredibly well.   Just some general first thoughts on the week overall.
PATRICK REED:   Yeah, you know, I think it was a good week.   Last week I felt like I was hitting the ball sideways and, you know, the first three days this week I felt like I wasn't hitting the ball really solid but my short game was good as it showed in the playoff.
And, you know, I stepped up and today I felt like I was in a better pattern, hit the ball a little bit better and able to play bogey-free and give myself a chance to make the birdie on the last just to get into the playoff which was nice and, you know it wasn't meant to be this year but we got tournament a lot of events come up.   We had a pretty good Florida swing.

Q.   Certainly you've had confidence working for you.   What do you take away from this?   Is there anything about your game that you're particularly pleased with this week that you could take moving forward?
PATRICK REED:   My short game.   My chipping and my putting I felt like was really spot on this week.   The main thing is, you know, I have to drive the ball wetter.   Felt like I started hitting the driver a little better today. 
As a whole, I needed to hit tee shots a little better and give myself better opportunities hitting into greens because around here you can't play out of the rough.   It's two unpredictable, catching flyers, out slow or fast.   You know, unfortunately you know I was one short.

Q.   Last thing, if you'll take me through the playoff holes, some incredible up and downs.   Take me through those in your mindset and I'll cut you loose.
PATRICK REED:   I hit a great drive on 18 again just like I did in regulation.   The only difference was I was two yards farther in the playoff than I was in regulation and in regulation I hit a soft 8-iron and actually flew past the flag and releasing to 20 feet past the hole.   It's the same as that shot, you're two yards further.   Should be perfect.   If anything it will be just past it and you'll have a chance. 
Hit a really solid iron shot.   Barely left of the flag.   I thought it was going to be perfect.   I saw the sand splash.   I heard the ooos and I looked up.   It's literally underneath the lip.   I didn't know what I was going to be able to do from there. 
I had to get out of the bunker and give myself a chance.   I rolled it left. 
Probably hit the best 3-wood of the week on 16 in the playoff.   298 run out on the tree.   Never would have thought I would have hit it through the fairway down there with that 3-wood. 
Unfortunately I went through the fairway barely into the rough.   I had perfect number from about 85, 90 percent 8-iron again and I hit a solid 8-iron right at it but it came out high, kind of fluttering. 
I knew it was a going long.   When I got back there looked like someone stepped on my golf ball.   It was so far down there I didn't know what I was going to do. 
I laid this thing open and kind of hit an explosion shot and actually I thought that one had a chance of going in.   It looked really good and, unfortunately, it broke a little left and I had a kick in. 
In regulation I hit a softy 5 on 17 back left green, full 6 and I hit the 6-iron decent and, you know, just didn't turnover and ended up a little right and short in the bunker.   I hit probably the best bunker shot I could from there and had about five feet left but I didn't even have to hit the putt because Jordan poured it in. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT