VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 14, 2015
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Level par through 12 holes, what changed?  
PATRICK REED:   Started hitting some better shots.   I hit a really good iron shot on 13.   I hit a really good putt on 15 and then on 14 and then on 17.   Really a solid iron shot there, pretty close and it was good.  
   
 Q.   17th hole.  
PATRICK REED:   I've been hooking the ball.   I thought I would swing as hard as I can with the 7-iron.  
   
 Q.   You've won tournaments at 4-under par and you've won 28, which do you prefer?  
PATRICK REED:   With the golf course playing with the rough and stuff, you have to really manage your game.   I've been doing that pretty well this week.   I haven't hit the ball solidly.   Hit it pretty solid tomorrow and make some putts.  
   
 Q.   Ask you about these accusations about in college you cheated and stole and all sorts of things.  
PATRICK REED:   You know, we made a comment about it earlier and, you know, all I can say is it's not true and it's just one of those things that unfortunately some teammates feel that way and the coach backed me up.  
   
 Q.   68, maybe the best round of the afternoon.   
You have to be very proud of that.  
PATRICK REED:   Yeah.   The wind was picking up this afternoon.   The golf course seems like it's playing a little firmer.   I'm pretty pleased.   I only hit five fairways, ten greens today.   
I really felt like I haven't hit the ball solidly this week.   My short game is holding and keeping me in it.   Hopefully I can have one good day of ball striking and putting.  
   
 Q.   The wind is a factor obviously but what else makes this golf so tough, because everybody struggles?  
PATRICK REED:   The rough is not long, really thick, and you get off there, you think you have a decent lie and all of a sudden just grabs the hosel and sometimes it comes out fast and sometimes slow.  
   
 Q.   24 putts.   Putter had it going today, too.  
PATRICK REED:   Yeah.   Putting really well and if it wasn't for the putter today and my 61-degree, it would have been is a long day.  
   
 Q.   Excited about tomorrow?  
PATRICK REED:   I can't wait.  
   
 Q.   Seeing how it could be so jumbled tomorrow at the top, how much do you like it when it's that tight and you get a chance to prove yourself against some of the best players in the world?  
PATRICK REED:   It's always good.   Anytime you have a chance to win on Sunday, it's always a good feeling.   Hopefully we can hit the ball pretty solidly, have a chance coming down the stretch.  
   
 Q.   Back to back rounds of 68.   How pleased are you with the performance here on Saturday?  
PATRICK REED:   I didn't hit the ball very well today.   Driver was kind of going everywhere and because playing out of the rough I wasn't hitting greens.   My short game today was spot on, you know, besides for a little hiccup on 8, which was caused by a snapped iron shot.   
Besides that I felt it was really solid and with how well the putter was working today, you know, keep me in the tournament and gives me a chance tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   What's the biggest challenge playing this golf course?  
PATRICK REED:   Hitting fairways for me right now.   Kind of seems like I'm hitting it all over the map with the driver.   You know, I'm keeping the ball in front of me and not having any penalty shots, no made drops.   You're able to do that around a golf course like this and if your putter is working it's going to save you and did today.  
   
 Q.   Likely heading into Sunday what's the most exciting thing you look forward to getting back in the winner's circle?  
PATRICK REED:   Just the chance to be able to get back and have a chance to win again.   It's always a great feeling.   We had a chance at Honda, and last week we had an outside chance but we were still up there on the leaderboard and this Florida swing has been pretty nice to me.   Hopefully I can close it out and maybe the third time is a charm.  
   
 Q.   How would you explain the tightly packed leaderboard?   Little while ago there were 23 people within three shots.   Product of the golf course?  
PATRICK REED:   It's a tough course.   How the conditions are, with the wind blowing and with the rough being a little bit thicker, it's one of those golf courses no one is going to go out there and shoot 8, 9-under, make a ton of birdies.   There's going to be a lot of pars, birdies here and there.   Some guys get on hot streaks, make some birdies.   There's going to be some bogies out there.   Kind of seems like everyone is playing the same type of golf.  
   
 Q.   Tomorrow what would you say probably will be the deciding factor, wind, rough, driving?  
PATRICK REED:   For me it's going to be keeping the ball in play.   I felt like I was in the trees almost all day and I was in the rough trying to judge out of the rough all day but now it's my short game is still solid.   Usually comes out on Sunday whoever putts and chips the best.   Hopefully I can do that and have a chance.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned your short game kind of saved you today.   Has it been pretty good for you recently or --  
             PATRICK REED:   Yeah, recently I've been chipping really well and hitting a lot of really good putts.   
Seems like I've been burning edges lately.   I think that's more on putting myself on the right spots of greens, keeping away from the downhill sliders.  
Seemed like I left myself a lot of uphill putts to be aggressive and make them.   I plan on doing the same thing tomorrow and hopefully hit a couple more greens and have another shot.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT