THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 2, 2015
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What do you take from this day?   
PATRICK REED:   I mean, I actually felt like I hit a pretty good iron shot on 15.   Just kind of ballooked (ph) on me and I couldn't tell how short it was, but it looked like it was pretty close.   
Besides that, I felt like I hit the ball pretty solid.   Missed a cup shorties, and besides that, it was a rough day.   But any time you feel like you didn't have your A Game and struggling a little bit and be able to finish inside the Top‑10 is always good.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like it was the one swing on 15 that was pretty much the deciding factor for you or were you fighting your game the whole day?   
PATRICK REED:   I was kind of fighting my game these past two rounds.   On TV, I'm sure everyone noticed, I was hitting a lot of quick lefts today.   I guess I'll have to go back and look at the footage.   I guess I was aiming a little right probably because I didn't want to miss everything left.   Started actually hitting the ball straighter so seemed like the ball was going a little bit right.   It's close.   But it's my best match here at Honda, that's always a good thing.   
   
 Q.   How do you feel coming out this morning compared to yesterday?   
PATRICK REED:   Felt fine.   Like I said earlier, felt like I hit a good iron shot on 15.   Just kind of up‑shot on me and I don't know how close it was to the wall but unfortunately it was short.   
Besides that, I had a loose iron shot on 16 and a short missed putt on 17.   But besides that, unfortunately I had three holes that kind of bit me.   But that's my best finish here so far.   
   
 Q.   How do you feel about going to Doral, can you get this worked out?  
PATRICK REED:   Oh, yeah.   All I have to do is go hit a couple balls on the range and tighten things up.   I felt like today, swing‑wise, was better than yesterday.   But because of yesterday, I was hitting everything left, and once I go back and watch it on TV this afternoon, I'm pretty sure I'll see that I was probably aiming a little right.   I was actually hitting the ball probably pretty straight.   Minor tweaks here and there, I should be fine.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT