THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 26, 2015
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How happy are you with that round, considering the conditions, seven birdies, that's pretty strong?  
PATRICK REED:   Yeah, you know, I was happy to be able to make a lot of birdies and convert a lot.   But it was tough out there and it just seemed like all day, it was hard to get it really close.   
You could play it to the fat part of greens, but even when you hit it to seven eight feet, you had to see which way the wind was going, even on putts.   Just makes it a little more difficult, and to be able to finish strong like I did, especially after struggling on the back nine to birdie two of the last three, gives me good confidence going into tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Best round of the afternoon wave by a couple shots.   Is that the toughest conditions you've faced so far this year?  
PATRICK REED:   Oh, for sure.   I don't think I've played in that much wind in a long time.   When I hit 6‑iron normally, 200 yards, I'm pulling 6‑iron from 170, it's tough.   And the main thing was just to stay in my golf swing and just be comfortable and try to be confident that that's the club to hit from those distances.   I feel like I did a good job on that and just kept myself in it.  
   
 Q.   Quick turnaround, couple hours' sleep and get back out there.   I guess that's a good thing?  
PATRICK REED:   I'm looking forward to getting out in the morning, especially starting on the back.   I don't know what the wind is supposed to be like tomorrow, even though the wind is howling, even being off early, you might get more receptive greens on the back nine.   Seems like that was the hardest thing today, was once we got towards the back nine, seemed to dry out a little bit.   
   
 Q.   Considering the conditions out there today, how good is that 67?   
PATRICK REED:   It felt pretty good.   I felt like I still left some shots out there but at the same time, I made a lot of good shots.   I stuck to my game plan.   Hit a lot of quality shots to my targets.   I mean, when it's blowing this hard you're never really‑‑ thought I did a good job on it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT