HUMANA CHALLENGE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CLINTON FOUNDATION
January 22, 2015
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Solid round of 65, it's one of those that could have been even lower.   Just describe it for us.   
PATRICK REED:   Yeah, coming in to today I didn't feel like I was hitting the ball very solid and I worked pretty hard with my swing coach and did some drills last night and started getting the ball striking down today.   But I was ice cold on the front nine.   Didn't feel like I made any putts.   Two birdies on the two par‑5's, I hit the green in regulation, actually had two really, one really easy eagle putt from six or seven feet and missed it.   Then I had a short eagle putt on the next one and missed that as well.   
So luckily I made a good putt on 9 and got myself going and got on a roll.   I think I went to five straight there.   And besides that, I feel like I left a lot out there, but it's always good to shoot 7‑under to start the day.  
   
 Q.   Absolutely.   It's always great to hit the ball well and feel like you're playing well, but there's the confidence side of it, too.   Given your performance the last several months, has your confidence in the game is it as high as ever?  
PATRICK REED:   Oh, yeah.   My confidence is as high as it could be and the main thing is just not getting ahead of myself and not really being over confident where I take too many unnecessary risks.   
I felt like I did that really well today.   I wanted to pull driver or go for a shot that I didn't really need to and I geared back and gave myself a good chance of birdie.   I just made a couple and missed a couple.  
   
 Q.   Lastly, great event, how much fun is it for you to be back here as the defending champ?  
PATRICK REED:   It's a blast.   We look forward every year coming back, especially with how we played last year.   But just the people, the fans, the support we have around here and also the golf courses are just amazing.   Especially this time of year.   The weather couldn't get any better.  
   
 Q.   Another day for you at this golf tournament, I guess, another great round.   You must feel obviously incredibly comfortable, but you just have to love this place?  
PATRICK REED:   For sure.   Unfortunately, I felt like I left a lot out there today.   I didn't really make any putts on the front nine, I made my first two birdies were on the par‑5's, but I hit them both in green in regulation.   The first par‑5 I had a 6‑footer for eagle, missed it.   Then the next hole I had 15 feet for eagle and missed it.   I left a lot of putts on the lip and just really didn't really feel like I putted very well but was able to get on a roll and hit a couple close shots and hit enough close where I could make some putts.  
   
 Q.   Does that give you confidence for tomorrow or I guess you got to put it out of your mind.   You're feeling good even though you missed a few feeling good about continuing the roll?  
PATRICK REED:   Any time you feel like you miss a few and shot 7‑under you're always going to feel pretty good.   I feel like my ball striking is there.   I feel like I hit the ball pretty well today.   I feel like I hit a lot of good putts, just I was just a tad off.   They were all over the edges, they just didn't go in.   So, I'm just going to continue doing what I've been doing and hopefully they will go in the rest of the week.  
   
 Q.   What is it about this course or this environment this place that seems to be kind of magical for you?  
PATRICK REED:   Yeah, good question.   I think it's right the fans, the people, the just the support that the tournament has.   It's awesome to see how many fans we are out here and as well as the awesome weather and awesome golf courses.   Greens are always really pure and it's nice to be play on good fast greens.  
   
 Q.   Obviously you must like the playing with the amateurs.   It doesn't seem to phase you.   Some people don't like doing that necessarily, it seems to be great for you?  
PATRICK REED:   Oh, yeah.   I love actually when we play with amateurs.   It's good for the game, it's good for them to kind of see how it is during a competition inside the ropes.   We had some great amateurs today and hopefully will continue having some great amateurs the rest of the week and just have a good time and have some fun.   
   
 Q.   You know a little about this La Quinta Country Club, you shot a 9‑under last year, 7‑under not too shabby, but do you feel like you left a couple birdie out there?  
PATRICK REED:   For sure.   Starting the day I hit a lot close, didn't make anything until I made birdie on two par‑5's on the front, but even there I feel like I left two shots on both those holes because hit the green under regulation, had a 6‑footer for eagle and then had a 15‑footer fore eagle that I missed.   So I left a lot of shots out there, but at the same time whenever any time you play bogey‑free, 65, it's always good.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel like it was going to be this challenging defending your championship with everybody gunning after you?  
PATRICK REED:   Not really.   What happened last year happened last year.   When it comes down to it, I just try to play my game and just kind of go after my game plan and focus on what I'm trying to do and at the end of the four days hopefully add them up and it will be enough.  
   
 Q.   New courses tomorrow, you obviously did well with those last year, what do you expect from the Palmer and Nicklaus?  
PATRICK REED:   Just expecting kind of the same.   Continue playing some good shots, hits some good greens and just get myself chances for birdies.   If I continue to putting the way I've been putting, we should have a chance.   That's the main thing.   It comes down to it, it's just giving myself the opportunities and hopefully being able to close them out.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT