HYUNDAI TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 11, 2015
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Here with Patrick Reed, who carded a 68 today.   Patrick, last year in your first appearance in the handgun tournament of champions, very solid finish, tied for 16.   Here you're in contention to win.   What is the difference this year here at Kapalua compared to last year?  
PATRICK REED:   I mean the main thing is just stay patient.   I felt like last year I tried to go out and make birdies and be pretty aggressive, but as long as I felt like I hit the greens this week, feel like I could get my putter to give me a chance, I'll roll in one here and there and you keep those big numbers out of play.   I've done that pretty well.   I had two bogey‑free rounds, only two bogeys for the week.   So I'm just going to stick to my game plan.  
   
 Q.   Likely going to be two shots with Hideki making birdie here on 18 heading into tomorrow behind.   That being said, on a ballpark like this, what's your mentality?  
PATRICK REED:   Monday.   It's Monday tomorrow, and I'm a pretty good Monday qualifier.   I'm just going to take that same mentality going into it, and hopefully I can get going and go low and at least have something to look at.  
   
 Q.   Patrick, just some comments on your day, first of all.   
PATRICK REED:   Yeah.   I mean it was a solid day.   I didn't really feel like I hit the ball well for the past three days, and honestly I didn't really feel like I putted the ball very well.   It's just kind of one of those days I've done everything mediocre to decent.   The main thing that I feel like I've done really well this week is managed it pretty well.   I haven't really gotten myself in really bad spots, and if I missed a green I left myself a pretty easy chip that I had a chance of making par.   And I feel like that's just the biggest difference this week is I don't have really my top‑notch game this week yet, but the good thing is I'm not beating myself up by making mental mistakes, and that's the only reason I really have a chance.   
   
 Q.   What feels off about the long game?  
PATRICK REED:   Just the driver.   I mean the driver and 3‑wood don't feel too bad.   Maybe just a little too quick.   The irons, I just feel like I have a tendency of catching such a groove thing, and unfortunately it's not getting quite as close to the hole and when I do hit it close, I leave myself in the wrong spot, bump the hole where I can't really be aggressive.  
I've missed a lot of short putts these past three days, and just things I need to work on, and tomorrow hopefully I can put it on the right side of the hole where I have a little less break and can be a little more aggressive.  
   
 Q.   Lack of wind, is that lack of separation do you think?  
PATRICK REED:   Lack of wind?   
   
 Q.   Yeah.   It just seems kind of down.   
PATRICK REED:   Not really.   Everyone is playing the same golf course and whether it was windy or whether it wasn't, guys would probably still be around the same spot.   The whole field has nothing but winners from last year.   That's a pretty good and steep field.   The main thing as you know whoever plays the best this week is going to win just because they've already done it before.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT