WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 7, 2014
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  PATRICK REED:   Golf course is playing tougher.   I've been spending a lot of time in the rough and it's very thick.   It's something you'd expect to see at a World Golf Championships event, and I just haven't really made many putts this week.   
And today, I felt like I got a lot of things going well today.   Just seemed like the score wasn't really producing.   Any time you play with somebody like Graeme who is 10‑under par and just lighting it up, definitely makes you look like you're playing a lot worse than what you really are.  
   
 Q.   It's the standard of course you want to see for a WGC event, isn't it.  
PATRICK REED:   For sure.   Besides the majors the next biggest events are World Golf Championships, and when you go out and play in one of these, you expect it to play hard, firm and fast.   
This time of year, with it being a little cool out, it's not going to play firm and fast but definitely the easiest way to do that is grow the rough.   They have done that.   That's for sure.  
   
 Q.   And it can get the better of you at times, so affects the temperament, doesn't it?  
PATRICK REED:   For sure.   Today I felt like I handled myself pretty well, and yesterday I did not.   Yesterday I made a stupid error, that's for sure.   Sorry for definitely the words that I said and everything that went on on No. 1, which was my 10th hole.   Never should have happened.   In this game of golf, it's a gentleman's game that.   Should never happened.   
Unfortunately it happened to me and all I can do is just learn from it and move on, and you know, hopefully continue playing well and keep giving fans something to watch.  
   
 Q.   You've certainly spoken about your temperament before, and it's something about a learning game, isn't it, being out here.   
PATRICK REED:   Yeah, it is, for sure.   I'm young and growing up, I had temper issues, on and off the golf course.   I live and die through every shot.   The passion of the game for me, I love the game so much, and I expect perfection, but no one is ever going to be perfect in this game.   It's just one of those things that I have to learn how to deal with and know how to handle and when I do a good job on it, I definitely play better.   It got the best of me this week.  
   
 Q.   Are you expecting repercussions?   Are you expecting a fine as a result?  
PATRICK REED:   We'll just wait and see.   All I can handle is myself and moving forward and playing some good golf, and hopefully trying to do something this weekend to move up that leaderboard.   
Like I said, I live and die through every shot, but I heard about it yesterday after the round and when I found out about it, got together with my team and I apologized for what I said.   Because it's something to not be proud of and something that you definitely can't have happen.   Unfortunately it got the best of me yesterday and all I can do is not let it happen again.   
   
 Q.   At the same time, you don't want to lose that passion you've got on the golf course.   Must be a fine line between not letting that spill‑over and keeping the‑‑  
PATRICK REED:   The passion I have for the game is never going to change.   And the drive to play well and win is never going to change.   It's just if I'm ever going to get upset at myself, especially after a Ryder Cup and at the level of golf I'm playing nowadays, you can't have outbursts.   Unfortunately I did and happened to be on camera and it just happened.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT