TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 11, 2014
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Congratulations, Patrick.   How did it go out there?  
PATRICK REED:   Went well.   Good to start any round of the event under par.   I felt I was under control.   My tee shots‑‑ waking up this morning I was a little tired, worn out.   
When I got here, I got here a little later than normal, just to kind of make sure I had the energy going into the tournament day.   
And I played well.   I was able to hit some quality drives and hit some good numbers on iron shots, which was key, especially early on, just so I knew exactly how far the ball was going, especially from last week.   And the putter got hot there.   And unfortunately I missed two short ones coming in.   
But besides that it all seemed pretty solid.  
   
 Q.   Did the atmosphere feel different with so few players for a PGA tournament, 29 versus 100 something?  
PATRICK REED:   No, it just seemed like the fans were condensed in more areas.   When you have 156 guys, the fans are all over the place.   Seems like the fans just following the 15 groups that are out there.  
   
 Q.   You played poorly last week, Patrick, or scored poorly, anyway.   Does the last week matter when you get here to Thursday?  
PATRICK REED:   No, not at all.   I mean, last week on the first day I had my old set of irons in the bag.   And I was catching flyers from tee boxes, flyers from fairways, and I was hitting 7‑iron during the practice round with a new set that I didn't quite put into play on the first day just because I wasn't quite comfortable yet with how far the ball was going.   
It bit me.   I decided to go with the old set.   I'm hitting 7‑iron 240, 250 when it's supposed to go even with altitude 200.   
We switched from first round into the second round, I decided to use all the new clubs.   And I started playing better.   When you shoot 7‑over par the first day, it's kind of hard to get anything going.  
   
 Q.   (Off microphone)?  
PATRICK REED:   Not at all.   I've played a lot of great golf this year.   After those two rounds, I went back, I talked to my coach and stuff, and I talked to him on what do I need to do just to conserve energy.   Because both of those I woke up, I was tired and I'm just worn out.   This is our seventh week in a row.   I've never played seven straight.  
So there were some things that he helped me with on just different ways to attack our game plan and just preparation to keep our energy level up coming into tournament days.  
   
 Q.   You said you could put those last two weeks behind you, but does this feel especially better coming back and playing well today?  
PATRICK REED:   Yeah, of course.   Anytime you shoot in the 60s, it feels great.   It's just one of those things that I felt like today I did what I was supposed to do.   
I hit the ball on the fairway on holes.   When I got into trouble I was able to put it in the right spots to allow me to have an easier up‑and‑down and I was able to do those things.   
I was able to make some crucial putts, four‑ and five‑footers that you had to start outside the hole.   
So with doing that, just gives me confidence going into the rest of the week.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel a little more pressure to turn things around with the Ryder Cup coming up next week?  
PATRICK REED:   No, not at all.   I mean, I want to go home after this event and I'm not going to touch a golf club for three days, and then it will be the best thing for me because after that, whenever I do pick up the club, my energy is going to be back up and I'm going to be able to sustain and be ready to go.  
   
 Q.   As it gets closer, what's the anticipation (indiscernible) is it in the back of your mind?   Tough time blocking it out?  
PATRICK REED:   It's always in the back of my mind.   Hard time blocking out?   Not really.   When you get out here playing any round of golf, especially a PGA event, you're so focused on what you're trying to achieve and what you're trying to do on each shot that really nothing else is in your mind.  
   
 Q.   (Off microphone)?  
PATRICK REED:   Hear a lot of boos.   For us going over there, I hear that you're going to hear a lot of boos, hear a lot of cheering for poor shots and you're going to hear a lot of silence for good shots.   
So hopefully we can keep them silent for a long time.  
   
 Q.   How much do you watch on TV?  
PATRICK REED:   What's that?   
   
 Q.   How much have you watched it on TV?  
PATRICK REED:   A lot.   Probably every one of them.  
   
 Q.   Do you look forward to the singing?  
PATRICK REED:   I can't wait.   I can't wait for every part of it.   The most important thing is build that friendship and relationships with all the guys.   Last week we were able to go out to dinner with all of them, and it was just‑‑ it's something that I think it's definitely going to help me not only with my golf game but just life out on TOUR.  
   
 Q.   Have you been given any indication from Tom who you might play with, or have you told him who you would like to?   And if you haven't, could you tell us who you'd like to play with?  
PATRICK REED:   We haven't really discussed any of that due to the fact that we're still trying to focus on the FedExCup and play well here.   
And I'll play with anybody.   All the guys are great guys, and they're all obviously really good players if they're making it on the Ryder Cup team.   I don't think there's anybody I wouldn't play with.  
   
 Q.   (Off microphone)?   
PATRICK REED:   You know, it's awesome to be here playing.   But you also have the Masters.   All the four majors and also the World Golf Championships, they're all real big events as well.   
The main thing is just focusing on what you're doing and not really focusing on what event it is, just trying to get the ball in the hole as fast as possible.  
   
 Q.   Why do you think you thrive so well in match play?  
PATRICK REED:   Because I get to see what the other guy is doing.   I learned to stick to my game plan.   And really I don't know what the recipe is.   I just seem to do it pretty well.  
   
 Q.   Do you think you intimidate your opponents?  
PATRICK REED:   Yeah, concerning I work out a lot.   I bench about 450 and‑‑ yeah.   No.  
   
 Q.   Serious question.   
PATRICK REED:   I don't know.   I think the thing is I don't really let anything rattle me.   I just focus on what I'm doing.   If that intimidates them then, yeah.   If it doesn't then probably not.  
   
 Q.   What's the last thing that rattled you, besides this interview, of course?  
PATRICK REED:   Yeah.   Last thing that rattled me.   Good question.   I don't know.   Probably the 82.   That probably rattled me for about 30seconds.   I was over it.   It's golf.   You're going to have a bad round.   
And that's the one thing that I feel like I've done really well, is whether I play really great round or play a real poor round, I get over it real quickly and I try to focus on what's coming up and what's next.   
I didn't really learn it.   I just‑‑ it's just something I've always been pretty good at.   Same thing in tests in class.   I memorize the information.   I forget two seconds later.   
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible) last week, any advice or wisdom?   Was it like that?  
PATRICK REED:   No, we were just going getting together to have a good time.  
   
 Q.   Any decision on who caddies for you in Scotland?  
PATRICK REED:   I don't know yet.   We'll see.  
   
 Q.   (Off microphone)?  
PATRICK REED:   Depends on how Justine feels, what her comfort level is and what she feels like doing.  
   
 Q.   (Off microphone)?  
PATRICK REED:   Hers.   I mean, whether she's caddying or whether Kessler's caddying, I know I can play well.   I've won with both of them, played some great golf with both of them.   
Obviously it's more of a family decision on what we feel is most comfortable not only for us but also for little Windsor‑Wells.  
   
 Q.   If she wants to go, she'll probably go?  
PATRICK REED:   If she wants to caddie, she can caddie.   She's definitely going.  
   
 Q.   We heard Tom Watson say he wants players to be in form.   Based on what you're saying now, does it really matter if you're in form now two weeks beforehand?   Do you get in form next week or on your off week (indiscernible)?   
PATRICK REED:   I had my swing coach come this week because he was up in this area, and my game's definitely in form.   It's just fatigue a little bit right now.   I'm a little tired.   It's something I have to get used to.   
When I get home, like all of our guys, even if our guys are tired, not playing well, you have a long time before you actually tee it up for the first round.   
I'm not worried about our guys getting in form.   We'll be in form.   We'll be ready.  
   
 Q.   Have you ever played in a Junior Ryder Cup?  
PATRICK REED:   Junior Ryder Cup?   
   
 Q.   Did you ever get picked for any of those things?  
PATRICK REED:   No, not that I know of.   Canon Cup.   Are you talking about Canon Cup for AJJ.   
   
 Q.   Junior Ryder Cup.   
PATRICK REED:   Talking about the one in Texas?   
   
 Q.   They played like a week before the‑‑  
PATRICK REED:   Obviously not because I don't know what it is.   No.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT