WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
July 31, 2014
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.     Patrick, did you feel like you were auditioning for Tom Watson out there today or this week? 
PATRICK REED:   I mean, not really.   Tom's job is hard enough, and so is ours.   It's just one of those things that I just have to keep improving in my game and keep trying to focus on playing well to not only get in the position to hopefully make Ryder Cup team but also put myself in a good position where ranking‑wise as well as FedExCup‑wise. 
We still have FedExCup.   That's first.   And then Ryder Cup is right after that.   Hopefully, we can do some good things this week and next week to make both of those a little easier.

Q.   Is that weird, though, because the order is correct, and yet it almost feels like the last tournament is the Ryder Cup [ No microphone ]? 
PATRICK REED:   That's when the deadline is, but at the same time, you have to continue playing good golf.   Even if you do make that team and you are representing the U.S., you need to keep putting your foot down.   You can't slack off, then when you get to the Ryder Cup, you're a little rusty. 
It's just one of those things where I have to keep doing what I'm doing and keep trying to move forward.

Q.   Do you do the math? 
PATRICK REED:   No, I don't do the math.   I'm sure my agents do.   I'm just out here trying to focus on playing well and trying to get close to top of the leaderboard and hopefully do well on Sundays.

Q.   Do you have communication [ No microphone ]? 
PATRICK REED:   Earlier on, around Heritage time, but since then we've all been so busy.   Played five in a row.   Took a week off, about to go seven in a row. 
He's been busy with everything.   There's a lot of busy times.   It's one of those things where you have to take care of yourself.   If so, then everything will fall into place.

Q.   [ No microphone ]?
PATRICK REED:   No.

Q.   [ No microphone ]?
PATRICK REED:   No, not really.   I feel like I have a chance right now to win all of them.   If I can keep playing good golf and play my A‑game that week, then I'll have a shot for sure. 
But normally, I don't see any point in touching a trophy until you actually earn it.

Q.   We've heard some people are superstitious.   Some people want to earn it. 
PATRICK REED:   I'd rather earn it than touch it and say I've touched it.

Q.   What separates the PGA Championship from the other three?   What makes it different? 
PATRICK REED:   Good question.   It's my first, so I have no clue.

Q.   Have you been watching or anything? 
PATRICK REED:   Honestly, I don't really know much that would be different or anything.   It's one of the four greatest events.   It's one of the four Majors.   I'm going for the Ryder Cup as well as a five‑year extension on the PGA Tour.

Q.   Would it matter to you if you were one point away from being an automatic [ No microphone ]?   Does it matter to you?   How confident are you? 
PATRICK REED:   I mean, I'm a firm believer you have to continue playing well each week.   All that kind of stuff will fall into place. 
Since last year at Wyndham, I've won three times, and I've played some great golf.   I just need to get back on playing more great golf and contending. 
I contended at Congressional.   Unfortunately, I wasn't able to close that one off.   But I just need to continue playing in the top ten and keep playing well.   All the point systems, all the FedExCups, everything will just fall into place. 

Q.   [ No microphone ]?
PATRICK REED:   For sure.   But at the same time, probably the best structure I've ever had. 

Q.   [ No microphone ]?
PATRICK REED:   That's her decision.   Whenever she feels she's ready and we feel like it's ready for the baby. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT