QUICKEN LOANS NATIONAL
June 26, 2014
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. 3-under 68, a fantastic first round around here?PATRICK REED: Yeah, it's a great way to start.  It's early.  We still have three more days.  I feel like I put myself in good position.
Q. Just about five weeks or so ago, you welcomed Windsor-Wells into the world.  How is life in fatherhood now?PATRICK REED: It's amazing.  Whether I play well or whether I play poorly, I get to go home and see her, so that's always a great thing.  I'm actually looking forward to heading back to the house and holding her and seeing if she wants to eat.
Q. How is the sleep going?  Obviously that's got to be a little challenge at five weeks.PATRICK REED: Luckily on the road, I'm getting full nights of sleep.  Justine and her mom are taking the night shifts, and they are allowing me to sleep so I can try to perform.  At home, we have got a good schedule.  It's usually like six hours on, six hours off.  So hopefully continue it.
Q. Interested to your thoughts as to how Congressional is playing right now.PATRICK REED: It's playing tough.  I hit the ball really well today.  I hit a lot of fairways and I missed the fairway on 4, I could get 55 yards to the green.  That's the farthest I could advance the golf ball and luckily I hit good wedge shots and made a lot of good putts. If you're hitting the ball in the fairway, it's gettable, but if you're not, you're going to struggle.
Q. Very tough golf course we are seeing on Thursday, but you shoot a 68.  What were you doing so well that worked for you out there?PATRICK REED: Just hitting fairways.  Just seemed like one of those things that I've been hitting my irons extremely well lately, so the main thing was to get the ball in play.  I did that extremely well today. Like I said, I only missed on 4 that I missed the fairway.  That's not a hole you want to miss the fairway on.  I can only get it to about 55 yards from the hole after my second, and hit a good wedge shot, made par, and just the holes I missed the fairway, it seemed like I missed them in the correct spots where I could advance the ball. The one time I didn't hit it in a good spot was 18.  I hit it left off that tee, and I thought I hit a good, aggressive lay up and next thing you know, I was short of the water in the left rough and there's no way to stop that ball.  Besides that, I feel like I played a solid round.
Q. You started out so well in 2014 and then went into a little bit of a dip in performance, and a wonderful distraction with a brand new baby daughter.  Is this a good building block, this round, for you?PATRICK REED: Oh, sure.  Last week I hit the ball great.  Asides from a couple tee shots that got me in a lot of trouble, I hit my irons really well.  Problem is I just didn't make any putts. The front side, I shot even par out there on Friday but could easily have been 4- or 5-under par.  That's the thing is I feel like I'm hitting the ball well and I feel like I'm doing everything well.  Putts just haven't been dropping.  Today luckily I started to get some putts go in the hole and built up a little more confidence in the putting and hopefully it will continue.
Q. How is the course playing today?PATRICK REED: The course is playing great.  It's tough out there.  The wind is definitely blowing and it's really affecting a lot of things.  As long as you keep it in play and hit it in the fairways, you're going to have a chance.  I did that extremely well today at times.  And at times I didn't and at times I struggled.  I had two huge saves early in the round on the front nine, and on the back nine, I hit every fairway except 18.
Q. You mentioned putting has been a struggle?PATRICK REED: I've been struggling with putting but at the same time, I made a lot of good putts.  Today I felt like I hit it just like I did last week.  I was making those putts -- just keep at it and it's early.
Q. You're a confident player.  I'm wondering, you had that mentality when you made six Monday qualifiers out of eight tournaments in 2012.  Is that something that's with you or do you still have that mentality?PATRICK REED: Oh, for sure.  I try to have that mentality every day that it's Monday.  I've been doing a lot of things great this past month.  I just haven't put everything together.  That's why I've struggled a little bit, but it's coming along and we're getting it going for this last part of the year.
Q. Are you able to bring that same mentality to a course that's as difficult as this one?PATRICK REED: Oh, sure for sure.  You have to be very confident on this golf course.  If you spend the whole day in the rough out here, good luck.  You're going to either be exhausted at the end of the round or shoot 74, 75.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT