QUICKEN LOANS NATIONAL
June 28, 2014
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Thoughts on a difficult afternoon.PATRICK REED: What do you expect, Congressional, it definitely showed its teeth today.  This afternoon, as the round got on, the greens got a little firmer and a little bit more bumpy and it was tough. Earlier in the week, you're hitting 5-irons and they are landing, and you'd stop it about five yards from where it landed and now it seems like you're allowing ten to 15.  Just something to remember for tomorrow and hopefully go out and put up another good round.
Q. Looked to me like you were starting to make more and more aggressive passes at the irons and somehow try to grip them on these firm putting surfaces.PATRICK REED: For sure.  I'm that guy that likes to stay between a 75 and 85 percent swing, and I think the last four holes we went at it a full hundred percent; clubbed down one, just to try to get some height and try to get some spin on it. On the last hole I only had 109 yards and pulled out 61 degrees, and swung as hard as I could at that.  That thing still ended up past where it landed.  Just things to remember for tomorrow.
Q. Two shots stuck out to me, your approach on 4 that nearly went down, and then the par putt on 11 I thought was crucial.  Would you talk us through those if you do recall them.PATRICK REED: To start the found I feel like I was hitting the ball pretty well, and I had that same exact distance on 4 yesterday, but to the left flag. I was a little further right after the tee and I just hit a high 9-iron and just missed the green left, it was a perfect distance.  With how the lie was, I felt like if I tried to hit something soft it was going to come out too low.  I just tried to heave a 9-iron and hopefully just barely catch the front and bounce it up, and yeah, ended up being perfect.  For a minute, it looked like it stopped up top but we were fortunate it came back down to tap-in range. On 11 felt like I hit a good putt.  Seemed like it came out really fast off the fringe.  Beside that, I had a good read coming back, Kessler gave me a good read and we both saw the same thing, so I was very confident and able to putt the perfect speed and it went in the hole.
Q. Considering the scoring average today, even par round, did it feel better than that?PATRICK REED: It did.  I made a couple careless mistakes early on and I felt like I left a lot of putts out there.  It was playing tough.  Towards the back nine it started getting really firm and fast, the greens did, and started to get a little bit more bumpy. It's what you expect Saturday and Sunday.  You expect them to get baked out and get a little firmer and that's what happened.  Just something to remember tomorrow coming down the stretch that we are going to have to play a little shorter than normal.
Q. You've converted all 54-hole victories; why do you think you are so good at that?PATRICK REED: Just stay patient.  I stick to my game plan of what got me to that point and that's what I'll do tomorrow.  There's a lot of golf left and there's still 18 holes.  I'm just come out tomorrow and play it like it's a Monday qualifier and try to go get it.
Q. What are you expecting from this golf course on Sunday, very little rain this week.PATRICK REED: Firm and fast.  It's just getting firmer and faster as the weeks go along.  I think tomorrow will be firmer and faster.
Q. Thoughts on the day?PATRICK REED: It was one of those rounds I had to grind through and I felt like I did a really good job on that.  I stayed in it.  It's playing tough out there.  The back nine was definitely getting a lot firmer and faster than it has all week, which you expect. There has not been any rain.  The golf course was baking out and it was playing a little bit tougher.  So strategically, you have to be on top of it and feel like I did a good job of managing it.
Q. How hard are 10 and 11?PATRICK REED: The first two days, they actually played pretty easy because they were downwind.  When those holes play downwind, it's not too bad.  But when that wind turns around, like it did today and during the practice rounds, 11, I mean, you're hitting 4- or 3-iron into the green, especially to that back flag. But you know, it's just one of those holes that if you shoot even par on those two, I mean, you feel pretty confident that you might be able to score on the back nine.
Q. You were in the winner's circle a couple times earlier this year.  What would it feel like to be back on Sunday?PATRICK REED: It would be a great feeling but there's still a lot of golf left.  There's 18 holes and we'll just go enjoy the night and get ready for tomorrow and just take it hole-by-hole.
Q. You ended up getting a two-shot lead at the end because Marc Leishman bogeyed one of the last two.  Does that make any difference to you?  Is there any kind of edge there?PATRICK REED: I mean, I don't really think really that way.  I'm just going into it as it's a Monday qualifier and just go in and I have to take it hole-by-hole.  You know, 18 holes, two shots, that's not a lot.  Anybody can make that up. Just one of those things, you have to have the right mind-set going into tomorrow and keep the foot down and keep going.
 
 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT