QUICKEN LOANS NATIONAL
June 27, 2014
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MARK STEVENS: Like to welcome Patrick Reed.  Patrick, you got it to 6-under today in difficult conditions.  You kind of want to talk about your round and the highlights, and we'll have a few questions.PATRICK REED: It was another solid day.  I put myself in the right position I needed to going into the weekend.  Just one of those rounds I kept on plugging along.  I didn't really hit the tee shots very well today but I managed to, I just scrapped it around and got some good looks on the greens and made some putts.
Q. You kind of said this, but you hit the ball into the rough a few times and were able to get back and save par.  Did you feel frustration kind of while you were going through the round?PATRICK REED: Not really.  I've always kind of struggled, if anything, with my tee shots.  My strength of my game is scrambling, and so when I got into the rough, I was just like, all right, let's just try to make the best of it.  You have to go into it with that kind of attitude, especially around here with how thick the rough is.  I managed it pretty well, and you know, put myself in good position.
Q. Since Doral, what's the ride been like?PATRICK REED: It's been great.  I really enjoyed it since Doral.  After our last win, we've been itching for our little girl to come see us, and now she's finally here. So it's been great.  It's been better for me probably than golf-wise, that's for sure.
Q. How do you kind of balance those two things?  You have this major life event, and you win that thing, and then you start missing a couple cuts.  What's the balance?PATRICK REED: I wasn't really focused on golf at the moment, which, I mean, anyone who was focused on golf at that point would -- it wouldn't really be the right thing to do.
Q. Do you miss having your wife on the bag and all that?PATRICK REED: Oh, for sure.  We had a great team whenever she was on the bag, and we are doing really well with Kessler, as well, with him being on the bag.  She's going to come back, just whenever she feels more comfortable and whenever we feel like it's the right time with the baby and everything.
Q. Is there a number you're looking at tomorrow, or is it just the old one shot at a time?PATRICK REED: One shot at a time.  Same thing I've done the past two days.
Q. What do you think the number will end up Sunday?PATRICK REED: Who knows.  Depends on how the golf course sets up and depends on what the weather is and just depends on a lot of variables.
Q. After Doral, you said you were one of the top 5 players in golf; do you stand by that?PATRICK REED: Yeah, I've already answered that question.
Q. You mentioned spraying it into the rough out here and scrambling around.  How hard is it?  Is the rough here a little bit thicker or do you not find it to be as penal as people are saying?PATRICK REED: I mean, there are some spots here that are just insane.  I was on 15 today and I missed the fairway about four or five yards to the left.  I advanced the ball, maybe 50 yards.  There's some spots out here that are really thick, and there's other spots that you can get lucky and get a good lie.  Just all depends.  Just the main thing is not put yourself in that position.
Q. Tiger misses the cut, you're in contention.  Do you care at all about whether he's around for the weekend or not?PATRICK REED: It's always good for the game.  We're all out here trying to do the same thing, trying to play for a living.MARK STEVENS: Thanks a lot, Patrick, for your time.
 
 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT