WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 7, 2014
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Patrick, talk about your round and the conditions. 
PATRICK REED:   Yeah, today was a lot tougher than yesterday, that's for sure.   It was one of those days that the wind was blowing so hard, greens are starting to get crusty and fast and firm, and just seemed like the ball never would really settle on the greens.   They kept on kind of rocking, or you're afraid of it moving.   But, you know, we hung in there, made a lot of good putts, and just one of those days that you had to grind and get it done. 

Q.   More the conditions or the course? 
PATRICK REED:   It's a tough golf course as it is, and with how hard the wind is blowing, it made it even tougher.   Almost felt like we were playing at a major today.   Just one of those things that you had to get through today and you had to grind and try to salvage every shot possible.   And you know, we were able to do that and hopefully we can have a good weekend. 

Q.   Do you think the course becomes gettable if the wind comes down? 
PATRICK REED:   Oh, yeah.   Any time the wind dies down‑‑ especially here you have some fairways that are pretty wide and you're able to basically play pretty aggressive.   But at the same time, it doesn't look like the wind is really going to drop much.   We are in Miami, Florida and the wind is usually not calm.   Usually ten or 15 is the calmest you're going to get.

Q.   What's the emotion like now, relief, frustration?
PATRICK REED:   Glad the long day is over that's for sure.   We played I think 24 holes today and it's tiring whenever you have to play that.   Especially when you wake up this morning and it's blowing 20 and then when you finish the round, it's blowing 30.   The wind never seemed to die.   Just one of those things that it's mentally grinding all day.     Can't wait to go back to the room and rest.

Q.   Do you think fans like to see when conditions are tough?   Do you think there's an appreciation‑‑
PATRICK REED:   Well, of course, if they wanted to see the other way, we could set up the course, 65, 100 yards, par 72, have every green soft and slow and you can watch us play. 
But at the same time whenever it's playing tough like this, it truly shows just the kind of special shots that all of us have, the cut shots, the low shots, the high flops, all the creativity that you have to have to play on tough golf courses and it kind of‑‑ that's what I like about it.

Q.   Were you aware of Mr.Trump watching you today? 
PATRICK REED:   You know, I saw him once and he was riding around in a cart.   But you know, with how windy and how tough it was playing out there, you really don't notice anybody out there.   You're just trying to figure out how to get the golf ball straight, try to hit some greens. 

Q.   Where did you see him?
PATRICK REED:   I saw him on the par3, 13. 

Q.   Tough to hold these new greens?
PATRICK REED:   Downwind with a long club is very tough.   But they have done a fantastic job on allowing it to be very fair and playable.   Even with how hard the wind is blowing, you can still hold every green out here.   Didn't seem like any greens you couldn't. 
A lot of times you're going to hit great shots that are going to end up in bad spots and times you're going to hit poor shots that end up in great spots.   Especially a golf course like this, I think there's bunkers on every square foot of the golf course; it's just one of those things that your caddie is going to be raking every bunker on that golf course today.   Now, I think I found every one on that back nine. 

Q.   Talk about a long, tough day?
PATRICK REED:   It was.   I don't think I've ever seen the wind blow so hard.   The last time I played in wind like that was in Baton Rouge during Katrina.   I went out and hit some balls on the driving range and we actually dropped a mat underneath the caddie barn and we were hitting balls out.
It was tough and it made it even tougher when I wasn't in the fairways and wasn't hitting many quality shots but I hung in there.

Q.   And putting on the greens difficult, as well? 
PATRICK REED:   With the wind this hard and how firm and fast these greens are, the ball seems to never really settle.   Seems to keep shaking and rocking and you don't know if it's going to move or not and you know the rule that if your putter is behind the ball at any time and the ball moves, it's a stroke. 
It's a tough and it's definitely in the back of your mind and you tend to grind through it and hopefully it doesn't move. 

Q.   Talk me through 16?
PATRICK REED:   Yeah, you know, I wanted to hit driver off the tee, and you know, we decide to play it safe.   So I hit 3‑iron and it started right of the fairway and somehow it went all the way left.   It looked like it landed in the fairway and next thing you know you get up there, I'm standing until the bunker, ball is out and I hit it over the green and you know, from where I was, I couldn't tell it went over the green.   And we walked up there and I saw it was over the green and all of a sudden I have a downhill lie in the bunker, and then 16 feet by and hit a perfect putt. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT