WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 19, 2014
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How good is to fight back and move on to the second round?
PATRICK REED:   It's always nice to be able to continue, especially after being two down through 5.   Through those first five holes, I didn't feel like I was doing any poorly.   He was 1‑under and I was 1‑over through that stretch. 
I just kept on sticking to the game plan, kept on trying to hit fairways, take greens, put a little pressure on him. 
I got hot and made three birdies in four holes and turned around there.   Just one of those things where Graham is a great player.   If you're not completely throwing him away and beating him badly, he's going to claw back.   Even though I got up, I knew the match wasn't over.   He took me to the last hole. 

Q.   How much do you reflect back to NCAA, 6‑0 in the two years you helped Augusta State win, Peter beating Harris?   Does that give you more confidence knowing you have been in this position more than some of the others?
PATRICK REED:   It does.   It's one of those things I've had a lot of success for in match play.   At the same time, I went back and keep thinking about (indiscernible).   Eighteen‑hole shootout.   You have to number you have to go shoot, usually five or six under.   Usually if you do that in match play, you have 18 holes to shoot five or six, you are going to win. 
A golf course like this, how tough this golf course is and how funny the greens are, you make a couple of pars and a couple of birdies here and there, you have a chance to win at the end. 

Q.   Not having seen this course before, how much practicing did you do on it?   How much work did your caddie do in terms of getting yardages?
PATRICK REED:   We played nine holes on Monday, nine holes on Tuesday.   We shot most of the sprinkler heads to get the slopes and that kind of tough.   I definitely felt like I couple more times due to the fact that Graham was taking a couple of different lines that I didn't really know about, going way right on, is it, 8, the par‑5, the second par‑5 on the front. 
Yeah, he's a little longer than me, but he was 50 yards farther than me into the green on that hole just because he went down the right fairway, and he had the best angle.   So it's one of those things that because I didn't notice that whenever I was playing the practice round, I'm going to stick to my normal game plan.   Usually my game plans are pretty set to what my game kind of entails.   So hopefully I'll just stick to that and continue.

Q.   But you did learn more about the golf course after playing 18 today?
PATRICK REED:   I did.   It's one of those course where it's very firm.   All you have to do is land the ball in the fairway.   A couple of times that I hit the ball into the fairway but landed in the rough and got no roll.   If you just land the ball in the fairway, you get an extra 30 yards easily.   That's a key that you have to do out here is to keep the ball in play, keep the ball in the fairways.   If you're playing out of the rough, you're not going to be able to stop them around the greens.   It's one of those things you have to plot your way around. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT