WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
January 28, 2014
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome Patrick Reed into the interview room here at the Waste Management Phoenix Open.   Patrick is making his first start at this event and coming off of a win at the Humana Challenge. 
If we can get you to look back at your win at the Humana and how much that week meant to you.
PATRICK REED:   Any time you go over to where you made it through Q‑school and all that, it turns into a very special week.   And then to shoot three 63s to start, set a PGA TOUR record, it all kind of fell in place. 
To be able to play a final round where you didn't have too much pressure, where you're able to just kind of cruise through the round to secure a victory, it's pretty nice.   I haven't had that feeling before.
THE MODERATOR:   You played this morning.   Give us your thoughts on this golf course here in Scottsdale. 
PATRICK REED:   Oh, the course is in great shape.   The fairways are perfect.   And the greens‑‑ you know, when I first saw them, there were a couple brown spots on them, and I thought that meant it was going to be not rolling very true, but I didn't see any putts really hop. 
You know, whenever you have greens like that that are just really pure, just like they were at Humana, I'm excited.   Hoping my putter shows up again.
THE MODERATOR:   Go into questions. 

Q.   At Humana, you said you were in a bit of a putting coma.   Then you kind of maybe slipped out a little bit on Sunday.   How have you been putting over the last week?
PATRICK REED:   I have been putting well.   I putted well that last day, too.   I think it was more of the fact that I have never been in a situation where I had a seven‑shot lead going into 18 holes.   It almost seemed like I was a little laxed out there, just kind of playing for pars, playing away from trouble rather than the first three days.   You still have nothing to lose, so you're kind of going for everything, you know, still taking aggressive lines, hitting them close, and making putts.
The putter I feel like is still great.   I've been hitting a lot of good putts yesterday, a lot of good putts today, so I'm excited.

Q.   It's amazing, just looking at your journey in the last two years and where you were two years ago.   Do you still kind of look back and go, it's amazing what sort of happened since then, or are you just now sort of focused on... 
PATRICK REED:   When we look back, it's pretty amazing what we did, but at the same time we are just still looking at the future and looking at the present due to the fact that in the past why we were very successful in the past and same thing now is because of how hard we worked.
You know, I feel like we have worked just as hard two years ago as we have now.   That's why we have been steadily increasing our game and getting better.

Q.   What was the hardest part regarding the journey when you guys were getting in the car and driving and going here and there every moment?   What was the toughest part during that stretch?
PATRICK REED:   Probably the driving, and then, you know, the Monday qualifiers.   You're playing every Monday qualifier with three, four hours of sleep, never seen the golf course before, having to go play and shoot a really low number through 18 holes. 
That was the hardest part.   Seemed like once we got into the event, that was kind of the easier part due to the fact that we were able to see the golf course before, we were able to rest, and you basically knew what you were doing.
During the Mondays, you didn't know what to really expect.

Q.   Were you like literally pulling in in the middle of the night sometimes to these places where you had the Monday qualifier?
PATRICK REED:   Oh, yeah.   There were a couple of them we rolled in around 3:00, 4:00 in the morning and teed off at 7:30, 8:00 in the morning.   So we had like no sleep.

Q.   How do you like your new caddy?
PATRICK REED:   Yeah, it's good to keep it in the family (smiling). 
You know, I can't wait for Justine to be back on the bag, bring the A team back and go attack it some more.

Q.   When did she last caddy for you? 
PATRICK REED:   Asia.   Malaysia, wasn't it? 
THE MODERATOR:   Short and sweet.   Thank you, Patrick.   We appreciate your time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT