WGC MEXICO CHAMPIONSHIP
February 20, 2020
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You've played here a couple times. Can you talk about how much harder it is in wind like this?
PATRICK REED: It's a lot harder. This is the first time I've actually played with wind.
Q. I think it's the first time we've had it.
PATRICK REED: Yeah, I think the biggest thing is into the wind, downwind, kind of sea level at home, it's very easy to kind of judge. But all of a sudden you come here and it seems like downwind the ball will just not stop. It just never stops, and then into the wind it seems like the ball doesn't go anywhere. Because the air is thinner up here, it seems like at the end of the day the wind magnifies what the ball wants to do.
Q. So it still makes it go shorter even into the wind? You don't get the advantage of the altitude into the wind as much?
PATRICK REED: Well, you still get the advantage of altitude, but I think the biggest thing is just like a little puff at home might be three yards difference, but here it seems to be five to seven. Just seems to be magnified just a little bit. And same thing downwind. If you get downwind and a full wedge number in your hand, the ball will never stop. It will just go.
Q. Rory talked yesterday about the Premier Golf League. Do you have any thoughts?
PATRICK REED: Honestly I have my team grabbing all the information about it, and I don't know enough about it yet to really say anything about it, but once we get all the information, I'll go make my mind up later on.
Q. What did you think of a guy of Rory's stature essentially saying he's out?
PATRICK REED: Yeah, I mean, I just heard about it probably earlier this year. I know some of the guys have heard about it for years, and supposedly this has been something that's gone on and hasn't really caught, and then it's kind of been going on and off for quite some time. Rory would know more about it and kind of where he stands, and me, it's hard for me to really say either way. I don't know much about it yet.
Q. We haven't had a chance to ask you, but did you see what Brooks said about the Hero and do you have any response?
PATRICK REED: Not really. I mean, I said what I have to say about what happened in the Bahamas, and at the end of the day, all I'm trying to do is go out and play good golf and trying to win a golf championship and hopefully run Rory down.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT