THE PRESIDENTS CUP
December 15, 2019
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How were you able to handle the situation out there today?
PATRICK REED: I think it's a team effort. With family back home, and then also with Captain and teammates, they said, hey, the only thing we can do is go out and play the best golf we can. Play your match and try to win a point.
You know, at this point, everything is bigger than just going out and playing golf. Need to go out and get a point for our team. Hopefully go out and get the momentum going since I was out early.
Q. How did you get through what the fans were saying today? How much did you hear of what was going on outside the ropes?
PATRICK REED: You make birdies, you don't hear much. The biggest thing today, which I felt like I didn't do early on this week, was we didn't get up in our matches. We didn't get up on top.
When you're not up on your matches, the other team, the crowd will get more vocal. If you get up in your match, the crowd will be pretty quiet. I was able to do that and silence a couple.
Q. You had your swing coach, Kevin Kirk, on the bag. What was that dynamic?
PATRICK REED: Kessler was definitely missed but at the same time KPMG Women's PGA Championship has been out there with us, Kessler and I, during practice rounds, during practice. He knew kind of what to do and how to handle different situations, just kind of like Kessler. He's even keeled, so it's easy to go out there and play golf.
Q. What have you learned about yourself, about this sport, in the last eight, nine days?
PATRICK REED: I think the biggest thing is just to continue grinding and not let the crowds or let people get in the way of what you're trying to do, and that's play golf. You know, the past couple days were tough, and you know, today still wasn't easy. I played some amazing golf, and even though I got up a lot early, CT, the kind of golfer he is, he put the pressure right back on. He made clutch putt after clutch putt, and kept making birdies to keep the round interesting.
Q. How talk about how this is an important point for you?
PATRICK REED: It's always important when Captain tells you to go out, he puts you out early, you know you have to go out and get red on the board and close out the matches to keep the momentum for your team, and our team was able to do that yesterday afternoon, to cut into that lead, and you know, coming into today, the big thing was to go out and try to get up early and try to get this thing on the right side of the board. I feel like we were able to do that, and biggest thing was to go out and play solid golf and to go out and earn the point for the team and also for myself.
Q. You're a resilient character, and it was a tough night, I'm sure. To come out and be so focused and get into the match like you did, you have to be proud of that performance?
PATRICK REED: Yeah, for sure. I think the biggest thing is with what went down yesterday and really how the whole week was, it was tough. Golf was tough. I felt like our first two matches with Webb and I, we played really good golf, but we have to hand it to them. They played amazing golf against us. Those matches were, I felt like we played better than which was warranted in order to win, but unfortunately it didn't happen.
The biggest thing was to come out today and continue playing some solid golf, continue playing well and to go out and get a crucial point early in the day to help the team.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT