DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 22, 2019
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A lot better today. What's been the difference between yesterday's round and today's?  
PATRICK REED: I think the biggest difference yesterday is I didn't hit anything close. I only had really four legitimate birdie opportunities yesterday, and one of them happened to be on the first hole which I three-putted. Not hitting the ball close enough, and two three-putts yesterday, and today I hit the ball a lot better and actually missed a lot of putts today.   
Just need to tighten up the putter and you know, maybe hit a couple more fairways, because it seems like when I miss the fairway, I put myself in a bad enough spot where I have 50, 70 yards coming in, rather than around the green chipping.   
 Q.  What did you think of the course today? Was it different than yesterday?  
PATRICK REED: Well, it was definitely -- it was calmer this morning teeing off as early as I did. But I think the biggest difference is early in the morning here, the ball doesn't go very far.   
So early in the round, it seemed like you weren't really able to take advantage of the par 5s. A lot of them were three-shot holes and this afternoon as it warms up, the ball goes a lot farther and the guys will be able to get to those holes. You almost had to play the old-fashioned way on the par 5s and make birdie the hard way and take as many opportunities as you can get.   
 Q.  Now that you're on the leaderboard, what's going to be your strategy for the two days off the weekend?  
PATRICK REED: I just need to make more birdies. I need to hit it closer and make more putts, because at the end of the day, knowing how this golf course has played in previous years and stuff, you've got to make a lot of birdies and unfortunately I haven't really done that. I made two birdies, I think only two birdies the first day, and today, I think I only made five.   
I just need to make more birdies, especially with now being as far behind as I am, I have to go out and shoot two really low ones.   
 Q.  We heard two days ago that Brooks Koepka couldn't go to The Presidents Cup and Rickie Fowler replaced him. What's your reaction about that?  
PATRICK REED: It's always awesome to have Rickie on the team. It's unfortunate what happened to BK with his knee, but you know, he's earned his spot on our team. He's a part of our team. I know our team is going to go over there and play our hardest to try to bring the cup back for him. He's a great competitor. We need him to get healthy and hope he has a speedy recovery and is good for the rest of next year.   
 Q.  It's been two weeks now that you know that Tiger Woods is going to be your captain and a player, as well. What's your thought about that? What was your reaction when you heard about it?  
PATRICK REED: It's going to be amazing. It was awesome hearing that he was going to be a captain and the way he's been playing, it's awesome to see that he's going to be playing. I mean, he definitely earned that spot to be able to play on the team. It's one of those things that any time you can have the greatest player on the planet playing on your team, it always helps you out.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT