WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 3, 2019
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Finishing on 12-under, must be positive?  
PATRICK REED: It felt solid. Earlier this week I felt like the par 5s cost me, so my goal today was to go out and continue hitting the ball solid and attack the par 5s. Chipped in for eagle on the second.   
It was just a steady round. Kept the ball on the green and gave myself a lot of looks and was able to make some putts. At the end of the day, the par 5s, I feel like that's the difference of having a chance to win this golf tournament.   
 Q.  Tell us the mental approach.  
PATRICK REED: For me, I was going to be aggressive no matter what, whether I have a chance to win the golf tournament or not. 16, I figured as long as I get a tee shot somewhere besides in the water, figure it out.   
 Q.  You're 11-under for the front nine and only person without a bogey on the front nine.  
PATRICK REED: Yeah, I think the biggest thing for me was just I felt like I was hitting the tee shots solid today, and all week on the front. When you play from the fairway around this golf course, you can attack it.   
But it's when you start getting sideways and start hitting in the rough -- it hasn't always been that way. That front nine has normally eaten me alive and I've normally rallied on the back.   
To be able to play the front nine well this year, you know, hopefully come next year, I'm able to play the front nine and back nine well and have a chance to win the golf tournament.   
 Q.  And you're now on the road again.  
PATRICK REED: Yeah, play in Turkey, go home for a short week, and on the road again for some more weeks overseas. I look forward to it, and this time of year is always fun to go out and play because it's when I get all my travel in.   
 Q.  Do you think you've done enough to convince Tiger to maybe put you in the conversation for Presidents Cup?  
PATRICK REED: It all depends. Only thing I could have done is play my game the last two weeks and play the best I can. I felt like I left a lot out there last week and didn't really feel that pleased, but was able to still finish 17th, and this week, the first three days, nothing really was going my way. I had a lot of lipout, a lot of burned edges.   
To come out and play like I did on Sunday, the day that really matters, to go out and shoot a low one, that definitely -- I know at the end of the day, Tiger will pick the guys he feels like are the best for the team to help win the Cup.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT