ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 8, 2019
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What was better today?
PATRICK REED: Hit the ball in the fairway.  Early in the morning the greens were still really firm, so you have to hit the fairway.  I hit 10 today and yesterday I think I maybe had two.  So.
Q. Improvement.
PATRICK REED: Yeah, it's definitely an improvement.  So when you're playing from the fairway here you can attack the golf course and I feel like I was in a good form with my driver today, I feel like I was swinging it well so I was able to be a little more aggressive on some of the lines and I was able to kind of attack some of the holes rather than playing safe.
Q. Did you figure something out on the range last night when you were working after your round?
PATRICK REED: Yeah, you know, just I mean I've been playing a lot, haven't really had a lot of time to groove everything that I wanted to kind of groove.  Now that I feel like the bag's set I feel like now I can come out and if I need to put a little extra wedge time, extra range time, extra putting, I can, just to kind of groove everything, get the game where I need it to be.  It felt close yesterday, just felt a hair off and I knew if I could hit the range afterwards I would be able to kind of time it up and settle everything down a little bit.
Q. Can you talk about the impact that Josh has had on you from college days to now being your short game, kind of mental coach, just the impact that he's had all these years on you.
PATRICK REED: Josh has been great.  Ever since college he's been there to not only try to help you really figure out what you're trying to do with your golf swing or short game or anything like that, but mainly you're able to learn a lot on the kind of course management, how to play a round of golf and kind of manage yourself around the golf course.  And if a guy who used to play, he used to play and was a really good stick, you're going to listen to somebody like that if he says, you know, this might not be a good idea to go for it.  No, I think it evens us out pretty well because I'm very aggressive, I love to go for everything and he's kind of the opposite, he likes to lay back a lot.  So I'm able to kind of pick and choose and try to figure out a good game plan and I'm able to see both sides of it, not just one.
Q. Can you talk about your decision to switch golf balls this week?
PATRICK REED: You know, it's just kind of something that I've been trying to look for just a little more height and a little bit softer around the greens.  I went back and played with Titleist today.  But, no, it felt good.  I feel like I was getting a little bit more height out there, but they're a lot different around the greens.  One spins a lot and one just kind of releases, so it's kind of one of those things that they don't feel that different off of iron shots, distance-wise or anything like that, so it's actually a pretty easy switch for me.  So it's just something that I felt like I had to kind of put in a test of on golf course rather than just a lot of range stuff and at home.
Q. As Augusta draws closer I know you've probably been talking about it all year, I know you have, but is it on your radar more than it might have been a few months ago?
PATRICK REED: No.  I think it's on everyone's radar, I mean, no matter what.  But I haven't put it any more on the radar than any other event right now, because I know last year at this point is kind of when I made my push on getting the game kind of where I felt like I needed it to be in order to win golf tournaments, at that point I just felt like once I got to Augusta I was very confident and felt like my game was where it needed to be.  I'm just trying to stay in that same kind of mind frame going into this year as I did last year.
Q. Going back to Josh a little bit, you know how much he loves coaching and when everything happened at SMU what made you decide that you wanted to bring him on and make him part of your team?
PATRICK REED: He's a great coach.  He was an awesome coach at Augusta State and he took a program to back-to-back national championships and then afterwards I've always talked to him quite a bit and now I was able to kind of get him out on the road a little bit more.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT