DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 18, 2018
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Danny grabbed the lead early in the round and you made a charge.  What was missing in your game today compared to the other three rounds?
PATRICK REED: I think the biggest thing is because the wind was blowing harder, and kind of leaving myself above the hole, it made it a little more difficult.
I've been kind of fighting that softy, short iron shot.  It's been hanging just about all week.  Unfortunately it got to me on 1; I was unable to get up-and-down.  I felt like I played 2 correctly, missed the putt.
Yeah, next thing you know, just didn't seem to kind of get it figured out on the front nine.  I felt like I was doing some things really well.  Felt like I was driving the ball well, until the shot on 9 but one of those things to be five down and to be 2-over par and to be looking like I'm not going to make a birdie all day; to go into the back nine and play the way I did on the back nine to have a chance to tie the lead on 16, which you know you're going to have those putts that you hit good putts that don't go in.
I gave it a run there in the end on that back nine and made a good charge, and it's always nice to see yourself go from having a bad day and grinding it out.
Q. You said you came here with confidence.  Do you feel like the way you played the back nine forced that confidence or made it larger?
PATRICK REED: Of course I'm disappointed with my result in the golf tournament, but to miss -- the only fairway I missed on the front nine was No. 9, and to salvage that hole for par and to get back to hitting the ball how I was hitting the ball all week on the back nine on Sunday, I take a lot of positives from it.  But the end of the day, still disappointed with the result.
Q. Things didn't get off to the best start, but you made a great rally on the back nine to put some pressure on Danny who got the early lead.
PATRICK REED: I felt like early in the round I was hitting my driver really well.  To go ahead and hit the iron shot, to hit it right on 1, miss the putt on 2, it looked like one of those days that could have gone really south.
To be five down going into the turn and to flip the script and play some normal golf and play some good golf on the back nine and to have a chance to tie it up on 16 -- you're going to have some of those putts throughout the day and throughout the week, you're going to hit good putts that don't go in.
That said, Danny did what he had to do at the end.  He got off to a hot start and good lead, and after that, he birdied 14, 15, birdied 17 to get the job done.  Hats off to him.  He played some great golf.  Unfortunately I just didn't play well enough in the beginning.
Q. Pleasing to get that birdie on 18 and finish tied for second?
PATRICK REED: It's always nice to finish off with a birdie.  I think the more disappointing thing was I felt like I hit a good iron shot there on 17.  With how the wind was blowing all day, the golf ball was really getting affected by it and for my golf ball to not get touched at all, it seemed to be a little disappointing, especially making bogey.
To be able to bounce back and make birdie on the last hole, it's always a good taste in your mouth.
Q. End of the season on The European Tour, and as you reflect back, it's been a fantastic year, Masters Champion.  How do you see the season as a whole?
PATRICK REED: It was a good season.  I felt like I did a lot of things really well this year.  I improved on a lot of things from last year.  To go ahead and win the first major, and to also have a chance at a couple of events this year to have a chance to win, it means I'm doing the right thing and going in the right direction.
Now I just need to put myself in these kind of positions and close off the deal and get the job done, rather than finishing second or fourth.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT