DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 16, 2018
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What positives do you take out of today into the weekend?  
PATRICK REED: It was a good round.  I mean, I went out, I stayed patient, and I think that was the key is staying patient around this golf course because once you start hitting the ball well, and you get the putter rolling a little bit, you can make birdies in bunches out here.   
To not hit the iron shots how I needed to early on in the round and to get some really key up-and-downs early in the round, I felt like set the tone to kind of get the putter going and started hitting the ball a little better.  Stressful through the first four holes but I was able to right that ship early and get off to a pretty good run there once I got to 5 and 6.   
 Q.  How was it playing alongside Rory?  
PATRICK REED: It's always fun to play with Rory.  He's a great guy.  He's a great competitor.  It's always fun going out and playing with him.  I enjoy it and it's one of those things, I feel like we always seem to play pretty well when we're playing with each other.  I think we just kind of feed off each other and go out and try to shoot low numbers for the crowds.   
 Q.  Was there much Ryder Cup chat?  
PATRICK REED: Pretty friendly.  It's only Friday.  We talked just about everything out there and just kind of enjoying the time.  It beats being back at home where it's 40 degrees, raining and blowing 30.  To come over here and have this kind of weather, you're kind of always in a good mood every time you're here.   
 Q.  What will be the keys for you over the weekend to get off to a fast start and move on out there?  
PATRICK REED: The thing is just continue to hit the ball the way I'm doing, and if I can give myself birdie looks and birdie opportunities, I'm going to make some putts.  I think that's the key is hit the ball consistent, and from that point, just trust my instincts on my putter and let it go.   
 Q.  What was consistent over your round?  
PATRICK REED: My putting.  Today I felt like my speed was better early on.  Because of that, I was able to make some putts.  The biggest thing I felt like was it took me a little bit of time early in the round yesterday to kind of get the balls to the hole, and today, I was able to kind of do that right off the bat because I needed to make a good putt at 1,2 and 4 just to keep pace.   
To be able to do that, I was able to set myself up for the rest of the round.   
 Q.  As an American, what would it mean to win one of the biggest events on The European Tour?  
PATRICK REED: It would mean a lot.  To come over here and to play and be a Member of The European Tour, it's something that I've always wanted to be a worldwide player; to come over seas and to win an event would mean a lot.  I haven't won overseas yet.  I haven't won over here.  To be able to come over here, especially the finale, to win the finale would mean a lot and it would definitely make Christmas a lot better.   
 Q.  Speaking with Rory, he said he has tremendous respect for your game and he says he feels like he seems to elevate you when you two play together.  What's it like playing with a world-class player?  Do you come here with more focus?  
PATRICK REED: I feel like any time you come to this event, every player here has played some great golf throughout the entire year.  That's why they are here.  Any time you play with Rory, it's a fun day, a fun week, because he's such a great player, such a great guy.   
He's an awesome competitor.  If he's not playing well, if you're not playing well, you can just see the competitiveness rises because you're out there trying to grind against each other.  It's just something that you can't allow him to get the upper hand, look what happened at '16.   
 Q.  At Augusta you took something from --  
PATRICK REED: Yeah, '16 and here, we started level, so we didn't have -- I didn't have a three-shot cushion.  But any time playing with Rory, it's a blast and he's a great guy.  I just enjoy going out and playing golf with him.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT