WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
October 27, 2018
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Thoughts heading into tomorrow?  
PATRICK REED: We're definitely still in the golf tournament.  I would have preferred to make a couple more birdies and hit the ball a little better today, but you know, I kept myself in it and everything can happen on a Sunday.   
 Q.  Talk about you did make a few mistakes but you were able to bounce back so many times.  
PATRICK REED: Yeah, I feel like I've been hitting the ball really well.  I just made a couple loose swings here and there, and I was able to kind of shake them off and bounce back, and either birdie the next hole or the one after that to get them back.  That's the thing about golf.  You have to be able to forget the bad things and remember the good things and go out and shoot low numbers.   
 Q.  Talk about the excitement of having a chance to win another WGC tomorrow.  
PATRICK REED: It's really exciting.  If you would have said I'd have been three back going into Sunday, would I take it before the week started?  Of course, because anything can happen on a Sunday.  If I play like I did on Thursday, hit the ball as well, everything starts clicking, you can go shoot a low number and make the leaders watch you.   
 Q.  Frustrating?  
PATRICK REED: Yeah, just seemed like all my loose shots ended up in a really bad spot.  You're going to hit a couple poor shots here and there throughout the day.  That's normal, but you have to miss them in the right spots and be able to get up-and-down.   
Unfortunately my loose shots were at the wrong time and the wrong spots, and because of that, I was having to make a putt for a bogey, or, you know, have a long putt for par to try to make.   
The good thing is I made a lot of birdies today and I can take that momentum into tomorrow and know that the birdies are out there.  Now it's just eliminate the stupid errors and just go shoot a low number and see what happens.   
 Q.  You have to play quite aggressive around this course and that's your style.  Is that a bonus for you going into tomorrow?  
PATRICK REED: I love playing aggressively, so I think that helps.  At the same time, you've got to be hitting the ball well.  If you're hitting it well, you can be aggressive and you're going to make a lot of birdies.   
But with being aggressive, you need to make sure you miss them in the right spots.  Unfortunately a couple of times, I was aggressive today and I missed it in the wrong spots and made it very difficult on myself.   
All in all, three back going into Sunday, anything can happen.  I like where I'm at.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT