U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2018
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Moving day works both ways?  
PATRICK REED: It does, for sure.   
 Q.  Where you stand right now, they are coming back to greet you.  You got to feel pretty good going into tomorrow.  
PATRICK REED: I had it going early through the first five holes.  I was 3-under through 5, and that's with missing a short putt on hole No. 2 for par.  So I feel like I was playing some really solid golf.   
Got to the back nine, I feel like I was playing solid, playing steady, but when the wind blows really hard and inconsistent out at some points.  It's really hard to judge, especially trying to get the ball close to some of these holes.  I had the unfortunate of the wind dying in the middle of an iron swing and ended up in the wrong spot and just missed way too many putts this week.  Having to 3-putt on 5 and making birdie, you just can't do stuff like that.   
It easily could have been a 66, 67 day, easily with not really blinking or doing anything crazy.  Unfortunately it was a 71.  If the wind keeps blowing, I'm going to be moving in the right direction.  I just wish I had a couple more.   
 Q.  Some of the players that played early said this afternoon was going to be really tough.  Did you feel it changing as your round went on?  
PATRICK REED: I felt it once I get to about hole 12, after our tee shot on 12.  Before that you could feel a couple puffs here and there.  It was like, okay, that's fine.  But then it started consistently blowing and then it started blowing even harder.  To be hitting pitching wedges, which for me is 155, 160-yard club -- to hit a pitching wedge 124 yards into the wind with flighting it and then to go downwind and hit 9-irons 190 yards and the greens are starting to get firmer and faster, it's going to be challenge this afternoon.  We put ourselves in a decent spot.  We have to wait and see how it all unfolds.   
 Q.  There was mention of the 13 and 15 hole locations.  Is it because they are on knobs?  
PATRICK REED: Well, 13 is on a knob and it's really close to the right bunker that -- with how the wind is blowing right now, because the wind went from west-northwest and it's switched to west-southwest.  So that wind is blowing straight into that bunker and three feet from that hole, it drops to like 4 percent of a slope and then greater, and then goes straight into the bunker.  So if the wind starts pumping and guys get 30 feet left of that hole, I wouldn't be surprised if someone putted in the bunker today.   
And 15, that pin is cut so far on the back on that right side and the wind is blowing hard straight down, kind of off the left there.  I watched Tyrell Hatton hit a bunker shot that had a lot of spin, landed, kind of was trickling, barely moving past the hole and the next thing you know his ball is off the green.  My ball, of course, went and rested right next to his.   
 Q.  The concern was that they would lose the course.  Did you feel like that was a danger, that that might happen with the wind?  
PATRICK REED: No, no.  The golf course is not -- they are not going to lose the golf course.  I would say the closest green they have so far is No. 18.  It was really, really firm.  It was really glassy.   
Where that pin placement is and everything, there is no issue whatsoever if you are in the middle of the green.  You would have to hit a bad first putt to 3-putt there.  I mean, you are not going to hit a good putt there and walk off with a 5.  If you hit a good putt, you are either going to make birdie or you are going to make par.   
I feel like the whole entire golf course is fair, even with how the wind is blowing, even with 13 and 15, where those pins are.  There's going to be a lot of guys that are going to complain about those two holes.  If you hit two quality golf shots on both of them, and you leave yourself in the right spot -- if you hit it past the flag on 15, up over the green, you have a good chance you are chipping right back up in the wind and some guys are putting it from back there.  You can make a 3 that way.  There's ways to play those two holes, but we're going to have to wait and see.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT