U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2018
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Patrick, can you just give us some idea of the conditions today, how hard it played, and what you think of so many big name players just blowing up the way they did?  
PATRICK REED: I mean, it's playing tough.  I mean, you're sitting out there and the wind's blowing 20, 25, with gusts.  Who knows how much it got up to?  And the golf course is firming up as the week's going on.   
So balls are bouncing and releasing more than they were in the practice rounds, and when that happens, if you're not spot-on on absolutely every aspect of the game, you're going to struggle.   
 Q.  How do you feel about your round, 3 over?  
PATRICK REED: Not good.  I mean, missed four fairways on holes that were pretty wide, and missed five greens from either a fairway or a tee box, which you can't do around here, and missed ten putts that are makable putts out there.   
So, you know, I mean, honestly felt like it was probably the worst round I could have shot with how today went.  I need to clean it up and get my act together, start playing golf.   
 Q.  Patrick, the golf course is obviously tough.  But was the setup fair, given the conditions?  
PATRICK REED: Yeah, the setup was fine.  I mean, I didn't think there was a hole where that was set up unfair or anything like that.  I felt like the pin placements were fine.  You had to hit quality golf shots.  They set up the golf course like a U.S. Open, like it should be.  If you hit a great shot, you're going to be rewarded.  If you don't, you're going to struggle.   
 Q.  Do you think this was a kind of a day not to shoot yourself completely out of it?  
PATRICK REED: Not really.  I don't have really good days like that.  I always go in and try to shoot under par and shoot the lowest round I can.  I don't go out, and just because it's really windy, thinking okay, if I hit the fairways, hit the middle of the greens, that's not how I can think.   
All I can do is control myself.  You know somebody's going to shoot a decent round today.  Even though it's really windy out there, someone gets going, someone's putter gets hot, they're going to go out and shoot a number.   
 Q.  It's the wind affecting putting?  
PATRICK REED: I feel like the wind's affecting everything.  Everything from ball striking to on the greens.  You just have to expect that, and the good thing is they got the greens slow enough where balls are staying.  They're not oscillating or moving, which is key.  When it blows this hard, if it gets too fast, the balls start moving.   
I felt like the USGA handled that well.  They set it up so guys wouldn't go out and shoot 63s, 62s out there.  They set it up long, hard.  At the same time, even though it was long and hard, it was fair, as long as you get in the fairway.   
 Q.  Would you say the greens were 11 1/2, 12?  
PATRICK REED: It's hard to tell.  The wind is blowing so hard, even uphill.  Downwind isn't that slow, but then uphill into the wind, it's just -- you have to feel like you're in driver.  Even downhill with the wind, the ball's not -- you're having to hit the putt, which is, you know, uncomfortable.  You're not comfortable doing that.  Downhill, downwind, it's pumping.   
So it's hard to tell, really, the speed, just because of how magnitude the slopes are, that kind of stuff.   
 Q.  Thank you for your time.  
PATRICK REED: All right.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT