MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 5, 2018
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Was it a breakthrough for you in figuring out this golf course?
PATRICK REED: I just think it was a long time coming. I felt like throughout the past I've hit a lot of really good golf shots here, played really solid, but I always seem to leave myself just above every hole. With doing that you have to putt so defensive around here and going into today and real throughout the round I really felt like I managed that really well. I left myself below the hole on a lot of the holes or at worst pin high. But the only one I felt like I didn't really learn from was on 16, because you know from that middle left flag you can't go past it. And what do I do, I hit it 30 feet past the flag. I was luckily able to 2‑putt that by making a long come back putt, but all in all it was just kind of one of those steady days, just go out, just played normal golf, let the birdies come to you, because around this place pars are good. Even though you might have a pitching wedge or 9‑iron in your hand, depending where the flag is, depending on what kind of lie you have, what fairway, etcetera, pars are good with short clubs. And I was able just to kind of plot myself around and when I had opportunities, capitalize on it.

Q. Is there a learning curve on this golf course that maybe you don't experience on other golf courses?
PATRICK REED: Oh, for sure. A lot of the other places we play, if you hit it to six feet or eight feet, whether it's above the hole or below the hole, it's not that big of a deal. But here you hit it, even if you hit it six feet above the hole, a lot of those, if you don't see such a high line and just tap it, it misses the hole, you have eight feet coming back. And we don't have that at other places we play. So it truly is a course knowledge golf course. You need to know where to put the ball on certain pins and if you miss you need to miss it in certain spots because there's some areas around here that it's literally impossible, unless you make a 15‑, 18‑footer. 

Q. How confident were you about your game plan coming in, how well did you execute it?
PATRICK REED: I feel like the game plan coming in was where it needed to be and I felt like I executed pretty solid. Really the only really big mistake I felt like I made was on 9. With that middle left flag, you just can't miss left. From being in the pine straw on the right and to kind of tug it left in the left bunker, it's just, you're not going to make par from there. You leave it short or you blast it right, at least you're going to have an opportunity. So that was the only really real mistake I feel like I made today and besides that, I feel like I stuck to my game plan and played some solid golf.

Q. Are you comfortable on these greens?
PATRICK REED: I'm getting there. I feel a lot more comfortable now than I did in the past. It was just one of those things, you just have to learn to see more than there is. I mean no matter what, every time you read a putt here, you're reading it, you like well that's a cup out. Well, try two cups. Because every time you play double what you see the ball will either go in the middle or creep in on the low side.

Q. How many times did you come here and practice on the golf course?
PATRICK REED: Just two. Came last week on Wednesday and Thursday. But besides that, I didn't come at all. This golf course, because I played it in college once a year, for three years, it's completely different besides when you get close to the tournament week. And when you play here and it's really soft, grass is long and the greens are long and soft, the golf course, one, seems really long, but all the iron shots you hit into greens you don't find the subtleties that the ball rolls off the greens and kind of keeps going and stuff like that. You miss in certain spots, you're like, oh, that's not bad, because you can get it up‑and‑down because the ball spins. But that's why I decided to come last week, to kind of see how it was and I was able to get a lot better notes I feel like and more crucial and important stuff.

Q. When you come back here do you kind of reminisce? Do you go to the campus, do you do anything like that?
PATRICK REED: Not really. It's just, it's too hard. Being a Major, being as many people that are coming in such a small town, you can't get anywhere quickly, you can't really do much because everyone's slammed, everything's slammed all around. So I just kind of come into the week and play some golf, I played last week and stuff like that. I'll go to the campus and stuff if I come in early or stuff like that.

Q. Do you have any photos or anything in the athletic department or the trophies I imagine are there?
PATRICK REED: We got the trophies in there. Photos? Not really. The photos of the golf team and stuff are more in the golf house. It's a small school, small campus, so not too many.

Q. When you played here in college did you find yourself stopping and looking at all the history, the photos in the clubhouse or even imagining hitting some shots to win Masters on certain holes and stuff?
PATRICK REED: I think all of us tried the chip on 16, all of us tried the iron shot out of the pine straw on 13 from Phil. But it's just kind of one of those things that when we play it, it's just so cold and wet, can't get to any of the par‑5s in two. The only one you have a chance maybe is 2, if you have a little bit of helping wind and it's going to be a 3‑wood. I've hit hybrid and 3‑wood into 11 every time I play every year. Whatever I was in college. So the time of year we play, it's completely different than like the shots on 13, we would have to be hitting hybrid or 5‑iron, 4‑iron from there because of how cold it was. So it's just completely different, we just come out, have some good time and hang out with the members, because they have five or six members that play with us. 

Q. I do a lot of fashion and I notice that the scripting this week, I could be looking at it wrong but you're not Sunday red. Is there a reason behind that? Is it because Tiger's back?
PATRICK REED: No, you know, Nike has where all the players, they're doing a new thing where all the players stay in the same kind of story line. So all the players will either be in this color or that gray, grayish black today and yesterday and then all of us will be in the same color tomorrow and Saturday and Sunday. 

Q. The azalea hat one day? Is that or is that just the Par‑3 Contest?
PATRICK REED: That's optional. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT