MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 5, 2018
Patrick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. 3‑under today after the first round of the Masters. You played the par‑5s great. Birdied them all. What was the success there on all the par‑5s?  
PATRICK REED: I think the biggest thing was getting the ball in the fairway. The direction the wind was today, if you hit the drives down the fairway on the par‑5s you had irons into almost every single one of them. I was able to do that, I was able to hit technically three out of four of the fairways and the one I missed was 13, but managed to just barely hit it through, just barely into the rough, I only had a 6‑iron into the green. So I was able to hit the tee shots really solid there and if you do that on the par‑5s you're able to attack the golf course.   
   
 Q. Were you aware that, especially these last six holes, all three of you in your group were at the top of the leaderboard, bouncing back and forth?  
PATRICK REED: Yeah, you know, well we were, because we saw the leaderboard while we were playing, but it's a long tournament and you know that any time you shoot anywhere between 2‑ to 4‑under par, especially on an opening round at Augusta, it's always a great start. That was kind of my goal today, to come out, try to shoot anywhere between 2 and 4 and hope to, if you have a chance to shoot better than that, of course go and do that, but anywhere in between 2 and 4 I would have been pleased.  
   
 Q. And you, this is your fifth start here, do you feel comfortable on the course now, you had a good finish in 2015, is this a course that you feel like you can win on?  
PATRICK REED: Yeah, it's definitely a course I feel I can win on. Off the tees and some of the iron shots it definitely seemed to fit my eye pretty well and that's key around here, just to get really comfortable on the shot you're trying to hit, because just one little mishap will definitely get you in the wrong spot, you can make a big number around here. And I was able to avoid that today and just really got the putter kind of going today, whenever you can get that going, it definitely makes these fairways and greens look a lot bigger than they are.  
   
 Q. As a local hero, does that help you or does that add more pressure?  
PATRICK REED: I would say it probably helps you. I would say the first year there was a little bit of pressure coming back, but being my fifth time back home, back where I went to college and that, it's normal, you kind of come back, you try and play well for the fans, and if you aren't playing well, they're trying to pump you up and if you are playing well they're trying to pump you up even more.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT