VOLVO GOLF CHAMPIONS
January 19, 2012
Matthew Zions
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Nice start, isn't it?   
MATTHEW ZIONS:   It's a lovely start.   This is an amazing golf course.   Played very fair.   Especially the front nine, the greens are receptive now.   They are drying up pretty quickly.   The course is playing firm.   But it's firm but fair.   
You know, it's in great shape.   It's as if no one's been on the course in six months.   There's not a blemish out there, very spoiled, great venue to start the year.  
   
 Q.   Of course nobody was on the course prior to you, so you had it to yourself?  
MATTHEW ZIONS:   True, went out playing with a lovely young guy.   Never played with a marker before, so wasn't really sure how to handle it all but he shot close to 1‑under, around par, so he did great under the circumstances.   It was a good start.   I played very steady.   Didn't finish last year particularly great, but I've been working hard the last month, and felt like I had been swinging it well.   
Today, even though I swung it well, I putted okay.   I just didn't really hole much.   But I drove the ball lovely.   I think I might have missed one fairway.   Big key on this track is keeping the ball in play.   That made nice a little easier on the second shots.   
It's a good test of golf.   But on this course conditions can change quickly.  
   
 Q.   First thing in the morning, wind is not up that much, and a whole host of birdies on the card, as well?  
MATTHEW ZIONS:   I think I had five or six.   Usually a good indication that I'm hitting the ball well.   I can't remember when I had six birdies‑‑ but working a lot on my iron play and swing in general and today I gave myself plenty of chances.   
   
 Q.   You're here as a result of winning last year, so presumably this is an event‑‑  
MATTHEW ZIONS:   It is.   We are spoiled rotten here this week, everything from the venue to the hotel to the food.   It's just nice to be around an elite field like this.   I think they change the pairings every day.   
So get to play with‑‑ obviously whoever you get drawn with is a very good player so it will be fun to be up against the best players in Europe especially.   
It's a good start and my confidence feels pretty high, and look forward to the rest of the week.   
   
 Q.   In the first chance of 2012; you wintered well?   
MATTHEW ZIONS:   I had a lovely winter in Texas with my in‑laws and that was great, hanging out with a 1981 British Open Champion for three weeks which was fun, he kind of took me under his wing.   That was a real treat, so been kind of spoiled.   Yeah, been probably the best winter, best preparation I've had going into the start of a year.   So it's been a lot of fun.   
   
 Q.   I take it that has its own benefits working alongside Open Champion.   
MATTHEW ZIONS:   Yeah, it was pretty cool.   Hard to explain.   Just being around the guy just made you feel happy, feel good about yourself.   You know, he told me, he believed in my game and that was nice to hear, as well.   Learned a lot from him those three weeks.   Hopefully it will carry me through the rest of the year and onto bigger and better things.   
   
 Q.   Tomorrow you're playing with the amateurs‑‑  
MATTHEW ZIONS:   I thought only five people that they picked.   It will be fun.   
   
 Q.   Do you enjoy playing with the amateurs?   
MATTHEW ZIONS:   I do actually.   If it wasn't for the sponsors, they are the ones‑‑ without them we are not playing for the huge amounts of money we play for.   We'll get a kick out of it.   I'll stay out of their way, but try and make them feel comfortable and have a fun day, as well.   
This course is not particularly amateur friendly especially if it gets a little windy but it will be a thrill and I think it's a neat thing they have organized, kind of a world challenge what they have done.   That's amazing that they can organize something like that.   
I'm not sure where all of the these people have come from but around the globe a bit.   That will be a big thrill for them.   I'm sure they will be blown away and probably knees would be wobbling on the first few holes but it will be fun.   It will be a great day.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT