AL DIVISION SERIES: TWINS VS YANKEES
October 3, 2019
Jonathan Schoop
Miguel Sano
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  This is for both of you. Could you talk about the impression Nelson Cruz has left on you guys, and what's the biggest thing you learned from him?  
JONATHAN SCHOOP: I know Nelson since I was 14, and I know what Nelson brings. So he's a leader. He's a good leader. He taught me how to prepare myself, how to go about my business and get ready for the game and prepare yourself to have a good game. He's big so far for me and for some other too this year. He teach me a lot of things on the field and outside the field.   
MIGUEL SANO: To me, he helped me a lot with like my routine every day, working inside and outside the field, and like a person, it's a great captain, good leader. He's one of the most special people I've seen in my life. He tries to help the young players and the old players, and everything he do is good for the people.   
 Q.  For both of you, please. Do you think this series sets up to be a series that reflects the regular season, which could be a lot of home runs and really high scores? If so, do you welcome that kind of baseball?  
JONATHAN SCHOOP: I think, when we played them, it was a lot of runs. We scored a lot of runs, and they scored a lot, too. I think it's going to be like -- because in playoff, you got to pitch, you got to hit, you got to play defense. So whatever it is, we'll be ready for it. The team that scores more is going to win. So we're going to think of it as a normal day and go out there and have fun and enjoy the game and try to win.   
MIGUEL SANO: To me, I think it's a normal game, like in the regular season. I know it's a playoff, but the more relaxed you go outside and play the game, the more fun you can have. Try to play the game, like Schoopy say, hit the ball, run the base, and everything. Doesn't matter if it's the postseason. We need to go outside and play the game and try to win like every day.   
 Q.  Miguel, if you can speak to the ups and downs you had last year, this year, and what Nelson means to you.  
MIGUEL SANO: Everybody has ups and downs. My career has been filled with ups and downs, and I think it's about -- it's not about the failures. It's about how you get back up and you continue to get better as a person, and in this case, as a player. Since I signed, I had ups and downs, and that's what brought me here. That's why I'm here.   
When it comes to Nelson Cruz, he's been a leader, and he teaches me a lot of great things. I'm just following his footsteps.   
 Q.  Minneapolis is not known as a big Latin community city, so we're the Bomba Squad, and Rocco allowed us to be ourselves.  
MIGUEL SANO: Yeah, it's not a big Latin community city, but we're being ourselves, we hit a lot of homers, and I think we stayed together as players, and you have people from Puerto Rico, Dominican Republic, Venezuela, Curacao. I think that helps us be ourselves. So it's our identity.   
JONATHAN SCHOOP: Before I signed with the Twins, I played against all those guys. I knew Rosario, Polanco, all those guys. It was easy transition for me. As soon as I got to Spring Training, like the Latin day, they all already tried all the time, and everybody was good. Even we mixed with other players, so the other players and everybody liked to be around each other, and we liked to have fun, and we liked to be in the clubhouse with each other. That's the biggest thing so far for us.   
 Q.  Miguel, what's this mean to you after the Wild Card game and not being able to play, just to be able to play at Yankee Stadium here?  
MIGUEL SANO: I played here before in 2017. I broke my tibia, out the whole season that year. I don't have a chance to play in the Wild Card, but 2019, we're here. That's the moment. Part of the Bomba Squad. Let's do it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT