US OPEN
September 9, 2001
Gilles Muller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  Seemed like in the first set it was a battle.  Every time you got ahead.  He would come back?
 
GILLES MULLER:  First set I was a little nervous.  Didn't play my best tennis.  That's why it was hard.  Every point was so important.  
 
Q.  Did you feel once you got that first set that you were in control?
 
GILLES MULLER:  Yeah.  After the second set, I was relaxed more than the first set.  In the first set, I didn't play my best tennis.  I wasn't able to play the good shots, to attack, to go to the net.  Second set, I saw everything.  I went often to the net.  I went to take the points, not to just play, to wait for mistakes of the other one.  
 
Q.  When you got the early break, then he took an injury time-out, did that play on your mind?  Are you distracted?
 
GILLES MULLER:  No, no.  I was happy because me, too, I was a little bit tired, the legs.  It was hot today.  I felt heavy, the legs, in the second set, in the beginning.  Was okay for me, the break. 
 
Q.  Is this a tournament you really believed you could win?  Was it something, after Wimbledon, you really set for yourself as a goal?
 
GILLES MULLER:  I know when I'm playing good, I'm able to win the big junior tournament.  But I wasn't in confidence.  Before when I came here, I played some futures in Europe, I played very bad.  When I arrived here, at the practice, I feel very well, I serve very good.  After the first matches, I played okay.  I knew I was able to win this tournament.  
 
Q.  What is your goal now?  You must have lots of confidence. 
 
GILLES MULLER:  Yeah, yeah.  I think to win the Grand Slam, after you're happy and just enjoy it.  It gives you a lot of confidence to play next tournaments. 
 
Q.  Is there a particular goal that you've set for yourself?  Now that you've achieved winning a Grand Slam, is there another goal ahead?
 
GILLES MULLER:  I reach two goals this week:  I won the Grand Slam and I went to No.  1 now.  Those were the two goals to be at the end of the year.  I'm happy to be like this.  I know I got a lot of work to do, keep practicing.  
 
Q.  How are you going to celebrate?
 
GILLES MULLER:  Tomorrow evening I arrange everything with my friends in Luxembourg to celebrate it.  
 
Q.  You live in Luxembourg or Paris?
 
GILLES MULLER:  I live in Luxembourg with my parents, but I practicing in Paris on the week.  I'm coming home to Luxembourg on the weekends. 
 
Q.  Are you going to play in more futures now?
 
GILLES MULLER:  Some futures.  After, if I have the ranking, I start challengers and Grand Prix.  I have to see with my ranking.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT