THE CHAMPIONSHIPS WIMBLEDON
July 12, 2017
Gilles Muller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. CILIC/G. Muller   
3-6, 7-6, 7-5, 5-7, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How would you analyze today's game?  Do you think your match with Nadal had an impact on the way you played?  
GILLES MULLER: I don't think so.  I think I started out pretty good on the first set.  I thought I was also playing pretty well in the second set.  I had breakpoints.  I was up a mini break in the tiebreak.  I had a good chance to go up two sets to love.   
Marin was able to win the second set, then started playing better, I think.  Yeah, I mean, he was a better player in the fourth set for sure.  He was dominating that set.  Somehow I stayed in there and managed to win it.  I don't know how.   
Then what was very tough was the beginning of the fifth set.  He played a phenomenal game in the beginning to break me.  Yeah, it was kind of tough to take that because, yeah, that's not the way you want to start out a fifth set, especially if you just won the fourth, run behind the score all the time.   
Yeah, he was just too good at the end.   
 Q.  For the second time in your career you've beaten Rafa at Wimbledon, gone out in the next round.  That makes you part of a group of players seven times people have beaten him and gone out in the next round.  Do you think that's anything to do with his game or just a freak?  
GILLES MULLER: I can only speak for myself.  I think today I lost against a guy who is 6 in the world.  It's not like a huge surprise, I think.   
But yeah, I mean, like I said, I don't think the match had an impact.  I think I did my job pretty well after that match to stay focused, didn't try to let all the hype around me take any effect.   
I think today I played a pretty good match.  So he was just better at the end.  I don't think there's a special reason.   
 Q.  On Marin, not many people were giving him a chance.  What do you make of his chances?  
GILLES MULLER: Well, I think anybody still in the draw still has a big chance.  I mean, it's the quarterfinals.  Now he's in the semis.  Just two more matches to go.   
I think he's able to beat Querrey just as much as Sam is able to beat Cilic.  Then the final, anything can happen.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT