ROLAND GARROS
May 28, 2015
Gilles Muller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  N. DJOKOVIC/G. Muller6-1, 6-4, 6-4THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.Q. What would you say about this match against Djoko?  What type of experience?GILLES MULLER: Well, not good.  It didn't start well.  It was a bit better at the end.  It's a pity.  This was not a good match for me. But I did my best, given the resources I have today.  I have no regrets, you see.  But it's a pity.  A pity that it was this day when things go wrong or less well, rather.Q. Would you say that this was tougher than in Australia for you against Djoko?GILLES MULLER: Well, it's a different match, different surface.  The conditions were different.  Today the conditions were not really favorable for me; very windy, the wind was whirling. It was very difficult to serve. You know, I use my serve quite a lot.  When things go wrong, when the serve goes wrong, it's tough. I didn't look at statistics, but people told me that during the middle of the second set I had 35 or 36% of first points on my serves.  So not much, not much in terms of my serves. And then after that, you know, this match in Australia, I can't remember.  It's a different thing.  Today was a different match.  It's a pity.  I really thought that, you know, in Australia I was not really that far, whereas today I must say it was really far.Q. Well, you said given the resources I had.  This is what you said.  Does that mean that you were tired due to the first round?GILLES MULLER: Well, that's true.  I was not 100% "fresh," but that was not a problem.  That is, had I played a fifth set it would have been more difficult.  But, no, it was not a problem.  It was a three-set match.  I didn't feel really tired.Q. Before the match you said you would go to the net, you would attack more.  What do you think about your tactics today?GILLES MULLER: I think I tried.  On my serve games I came to the net quite often.  But, you know, 35% of first serves -- you know, I don't know what the statistics were for the whole match, but, you know, if you go to the net on the second point, then you're going to be killed.  That's why I stayed at the baseline. But otherwise it was serve and volley all the time.  Well, I tried.  I tried to stick to my plan throughout the match.  It wasn't easy.  It was difficult for me. But I continued to do this, and I think this is positive.  My tactics didn't change because it was too difficult.Q. Is there anything else that's positive that you would take away, something that you take away from this match?GILLES MULLER: Well, you know, it's only been 15 minutes.  You know, 15 minutes after a match it's difficult to say anything has been positive.  I've lost.  I didn't really have any opportunities to lead during the match.  I was always my back on the wall.  So difficult to find anything that's positive. But, you know, the good thing is that at the end of the match, I'm not saying, Okay, it's too far away.  You know, I still think I can make it.  I have to work, but I can make it.  I want to show people I can defeat them, I can beat them. This is the positive side to it.  That is, I have to work harder and I'm ready to work harder.Q. What about this pressure on the Lenglen?  How did you manage this?  Because sometimes you said that when the courts are huge, pressure is sometimes something difficult for you to manage.  Was it the first time you were playing on the Lenglen court, I think?GILLES MULLER: Yeah.  For an official match, yeah.  When there was the Kids' Day I played a match on this court, but otherwise, no, it was just once. I had a problem in Wimbledon, on the centre court on Wimbledon because I thought, no, I can't manage this.  But otherwise, no, no problem, if I play on the big court. But, you know, it didn't bother me.  This morning I practiced, the conditions were really good, it was sunny, no wind.  I felt really good.  I could feel each point. But then after this when I was on the court this afternoon, it was cold, windy, the wind was whirling.  It was not that easy.  There were gusts of wind.  It was not easy to play on the Lenglen, but it's mainly the conditions.  It's not the Suzanne Lenglen Court at all.Q. What about the traces that will remain after this Roland Garros?  You have for the second time in your career gone through to the second round.GILLES MULLER: The traces, you mean the memories?  Well, I played as best as I could.  I fought till the very last point.  These are the good traces or memories.  But it's disappointing, you know, to be beaten so severely against this player, the No. 1.Q. What's your plan now?GILLES MULLER: Well, I'm going to go back home tomorrow, not this evening, and then I will rest for a few days.  Next week I'm going to practice on a hard surface, and then my first tournament will be in the Netherlands on grass.Q. Could you say that now you're relieved that you finished playing on clay?  Is this what you feel?GILLES MULLER: Yes and no.  Yes, because I'm happy I can play soon on grass, on hard surfaces.  I feel a lot better on these surfaces.  Yet I'm looking forward to next year's season on clay, because there are things I can show and prove to people.  I think I can do better than what I did this year.  That's what I can say. So yes and no.  I'm happy it's over, but also, I'm looking forward to next year's season on clay.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT