UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 19, 2016
Obi Melifonwu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Connecticut - 0, Boston College - 30
Q. Is it tough not to get frustrated?
OBI MELIFONWU: Yeah, it's tough not to get frustrated but as a player you've just got to do job and hope for the best.  All you can control is what you can control and that's your job.
Q. How frustrating is it with an offense that's not able to move up-and-down the field?
OBI MELIFONWU: It's frustrating, but offense did some great things out there.  They are coming along.  But like I said, I have to focus on what I have to focus on and that's play every play to the best of my ability.
Q. Do you worry about being on the field so much, time of possession, you guys wore down as a defense?
OBI MELIFONWU: Not really.  Matt does a great job of conditioning us every week.  We practice hard and we come to the game and we play hard.  I don't think that as a defense, we get tired at all.  I don't know, we're built to go out there and on sudden changes make plays, and I feel like we can do more of that.
Q. This is a team that returned a lot of key guys, and you guys had really high hopes.  This has clearly kind of spiraled out of control now.  How shocked are you at the way this has played out, how disappointed are you the way it's played out?
OBI MELIFONWU: I'm definitely disappointed.  I mean, we came in with high hopes.  It just really has not been our season, but all you can do is look forward, look at the positives and not really focus on the negatives.
Q. What are the most positive things you can take out of this season?
OBI MELIFONWU: Definitely the culture.  I feel like as a football team, nobody has really gone the opposite way.  Everybody is rallying around each other and everybody is supporting each other, and I feel like as a team, if you have no culture, then it's very hard to move forward.  But definitely the culture is something that we pride ourselves on.
Q. What will it be like playing next week, you've played a ton of football here and you've got one game left.
OBI MELIFONWU: I think next week is going to be an emotional game, but you have to channel that emotion in the right way.  I'm definitely going to go out there and give it my all like I do every game.  But definitely next week is going to be something special.
Q. How frustrating was when they -- for the field goal and they come back and go for it, you guys feel like you had them stopped and you were off the feel.  Was that tough?
OBI MELIFONWU: No, like I said, I mean, I don't look at the game like that.  I mean, whenever I'm on the field, I'm on the field to play, and I can't -- there's nothing I can really do about what the other team is doing or what the offense is doing.  I'm just wired to play when I'm out there and that's just what I do.
Q. Is there anything in particular Coach said that you guys afterwards that he really wants you to understand about what's going on or what he wants you to take away from this?
OBI MELIFONWU: He just told us, stick together as a team.  Every team goes through their ups and downs and he just said, look at the other side.  You can't really have greatness without adversity and right now we're going through adversity, and everybody is just sticking together and believing that we can do great things as a team and as a program.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT