U.S. WOMEN'S MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 15, 2004
Corey Weworski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  What are your initial feelings of the match, winning 5&4?
 COREY WEWORSKI:  Well, at first when I was 2-down, I thought I was going to lose big time, and I said to myself, it's okay to lose but don't lose big.  And I just started to play.
Q.  So how did you turn it around?  Because I believe you won your next three holes and all of the sudden you're on top.
 COREY WEWORSKI:  Right.  Well, a good iron shot on No. 4, that was key.  And I think I birdied that one.

Then you know from there, I just got confident right after that and just started --
Q.  Just started playing well?
COREY WEWORSKI:  Just started playing.
Q.  Coming in here you said you're a realist and you didn't expect to be here and you didn't expect to win.  Why is that?
 COREY WEWORSKI:  I just don't put myself in the same class as some people, you know, like the Ellen Ports and the Carole Thompsons and the Virginia Grimes.  They have had records on records.  You guys can't even find a sheet on me.
Q.  Because we don't have a bio sheet.
COREY WEWORSKI:  I've got my blanket.
Q.  You had mentioned how during the ceremony, you put certain people on a pedestal and Virginia is one of those people.  Why is that?
 COREY WEWORSKI:  Like I said, because they have just a whole bunch of -- their resume is just big, you know, and mine isn't.  I don't compete in a lot of tournaments.  I mean, this tournament in our state in the only tournament, so I've only played in one tournament, one tournament.
Q.  One tournament in a year?
 COREY WEWORSKI:  This year, one tournament.
Q.  Which tournament?
COREY WEWORSKI:  The California State in July.
Q.  How did you do there?
 COREY WEWORSKI:  I think it was 15th.  A lot of college girls.
Q.  But that's an event that you've won before in the past; correct?
 COREY WEWORSKI:  No, we have three different state championships.  Match-play I won, I won The Match Play.
Q.  But you can't remember which year?  '98?
COREY WEWORSKI:   '98, I believe.  I think.
Q.  So going back into you being a realist, coming into this week, what were your expectations, what were your plans for this week?
 COREY WEWORSKI:  My plans for this week were my girlfriend and I, she called me up, this is no lie.  She called me up and I said, "Jamie, I do not want to go.  I am not ready.  I don't like to go into tournaments not prepared.  I've been spending all of this time with my kids.  I'm not going."

She started getting very upset.  She goes, "Corey, you've got to go.  I'm not going there by myself."

I said, "Okay, I'll go."   She guilted me into going, actually.  She started crying.

So anyway, I decided to come.  I told her, I said, "Jamie, if we go, let's go sight-seeing, let's go to Nashville, let's go to the Grand Ole Opry, let's go to Gatlinburg, I want to see the great Smokeys.  So right after we don't qualify, then we'll go sight-seeing."

Well, I didn't get to see Tennessee at all, and that is no lie.
Q.  So is there a twinge of disappointment that you didn't get your vacation?  This has got to balance out pretty good.
 COREY WEWORSKI:  No, this is definitely worth it, definitely worth it.  Because one day, two years ago, she goes, "Corey, we can win this tournament."  I'm like, "Jamie, we cannot win this tournament."    (Laughing).

And "Yes, we can, yes we can."  I'm going to have to start thinking higher of myself, I think.  This shirt I've wore twice because I don't have any clean clothes.  (Laughing)  And I didn't even have time to go shopping because I played 40 holes one day and go eat and the mall is closed.  Yesterday, go eat and the mall is closed.
Q.  So you've been pretty busy.  You've been playing and you've been playing well?
COREY WEWORSKI:  Yeah, dirty clothes and all.
Q.  Now getting back to the match, No. 9, you hit I believe a key putt that was, what, about six feet and you ended up winning that hole to go 2-up?
 COREY WEWORSKI:  Yeah, it was about a 12-footer downhill.  It was long.  I won a couple of matches with those downhill sliders, and I love them.  I think that's what gave me 1-up on everybody because I know how to putt those fast sliders.  Doesn't bother me, not one bit.
Q.  That's a little odd, but --
 COREY WEWORSKI:  I know.  And then Jamie finally realized yesterday when she was caddying for me, "You hate uphill putts."  I do.  I hate uphill putts.
Q.  Do you purposely strategize?
COREY WEWORSKI:  Try to get downhill putts.
Q.  Wow.
COREY WEWORSKI:  Isn't that weird?  I don't like to stroke it, just tap it.
Q.  So you're 2-up at the turn.  What's going through your head?  Do you realize that you're 2-up at that point?
COREY WEWORSKI:  What I tried to do was just keep on playing, just keep on playing the best you know how, and let her beat you.  That's my -- was the whole thing this whole week, that was my whole strategy, you just go out, play, hit shots and let them beat you.  No one seemed to beat me, not like I didn't try to give it away, I topped it for God's sake on No. 10.  She should have got a par.  Right?
Q.  I agree.  Okay.  So now you push the lead to 3-up I think after 11, you pretty much have a good hold on the match.  Are those thoughts entering your mind that, hey, I could really win this thing?
COREY WEWORSKI:  No.
Q.  Not at all?
COREY WEWORSKI:  Not at all.  I'm figuring, she's going to come back, come back.
Q.  So you're almost --
COREY WEWORSKI:  Like a grinder.  Just never phased me.
Q.  And 14 when you knock in the putt you turn and you're headed off the green a little bit, did you not know?
 COREY WEWORSKI:  I didn't even know I won.  I know.  That's sad.  (Laughing)  Yeah, I just wanted to make the putt.  I don't want to make bogeys.  I just wanted to keep on playing.
Q.  Just keep playing.  Then when somebody said, you know, it's over, what were your immediate thoughts?
 COREY WEWORSKI:  I'm like, no way, it's already over?  I kind of felt bad that it was over so quickly.  I wanted -- I didn't want her to beat me.  I wanted to beat her.  But, I didn't want it to be that -- that's not good.
Q.  But it is good, you did win, so it is good.
COREY WEWORSKI:  Okay, we'll take it.  See, I'm not used to this.
Q.  So back home in Carlsbad, California, you have some family back there, a couple kids; is that correct?
COREY WEWORSKI:  Yes.
Q.  How old are they?
COREY WEWORSKI:  Tyler is 14 and Ryan is 12.
Q.  And one just entered high school; is that correct?
COREY WEWORSKI:  I missed his first day of high school.
Q.  Have you been in touch with them since?
 COREY WEWORSKI:  Oh, yeah, every day.  I must have got 50 phone calls last night from everybody, the pros, everybody called me.  They are so ecstatic I haven't called anybody yet today but I'm sure my phone is ringing off the hook.
Q.  So what do you think their reaction is going to be?
 COREY WEWORSKI:  Oh, well, when I won the State, whenever I did, I got inducted into San Diego's Sports Hall of Fame, so I'm sure I'll probably get an introduction into their Sports Hall of Fame.  They have a Sportsperson of the Month.  So my month might be, whatever, September.  And that's what's really interesting.  The City recognized you, for winning something.  So I'm sure it's going to be big.  I'm sure they are pretty excited.
Q.  I'm sure they will be.
COREY WEWORSKI:  Yeah.
Q.  Now, I could stand corrected, but I believe you do gain an exemption into the Women's Amateur next year?
COREY WEWORSKI:  I know.
Q.  Are you going to play?
 COREY WEWORSKI:  I am going to play.  I am going to practice.  I won't make the cut, I've never made the cut in those things, never.  I qualified for five of them but I've never made the cut.
Q.  Okay.  Well, who knows, it's like dreams can come true.  This week, you didn't expect to win and look at what happened.
COREY WEWORSKI:  No, exactly.
Q.  Thank you very much for the time and congratulations again.
COREY WEWORSKI:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT