UNIVERSITY OF WEST VIRGINIA MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 13, 2012
Geno Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.   Geno, what happened? 
GENO SMITH:   There were a number of things that happened today.   Obviously, we didn't get the job done.   We didn't come in with the right mind frame.   I think we had a good game plan.   I think we had a great week of practice.   We were focused coming in.   But I just think we got out there on the field and didn't do enough to win the game, and that is really all there is to it.

Q.   Dana said something at halftime about the wind bothering you.   Did you ever adjust to that? 
GENO SMITH:   The wind didn't bother me.   Anyone that says that doesn't know football at all.   There are no excuses for what happened today.   I was off.   I wasn't hitting my targets.   Wasn't hitting my reads.   I can say a number of things that I did wrong, but overall it's a team game.   We win as a team, we lose as a team.   There is no reason to hang our heads. 
We've got to prepare for a tough team in Kansas that comes on to our field.   We've just got to evaluate the film and get better as we always do.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
GENO SMITH:   There is no explanation for it.   It is just the way the game goes.   Everyone has a bad game.   That is really all there is to it.   I don't think I played terribly bad.   I just don't think I did enough to win the game.   That is the way I measure myself on wins and losses rather than completions and all that other stuff that people like to build up in the media or whatever.

Q.   Did they pass rush against you at all?   Did that disrupt anything? 
GENO SMITH:   They did a great job of keeping everything in front of them.   They forced us into some third and long situations.   We had some tough situations, but I feel like I should have done a better job putting the ball in play and keeping us above the chains.   Like I said, I wasn't hitting my targets, wasn't hitting my reads.   I know one thing I do know is we'll bounce back.   That is all there is to it. 
We'll put this game behind us, just like we do a win, and that is move on from it, get better each week.   We've got six games to go.   This is going to sting, but this is my motivation coming in next week.

Q.   Did you think you had a good grasp? 
GENO SMITH:   They didn't send any pressure.   They played drop seven.   Their D‑line did a great job of being aggressive the entire game.   They really pinned our ears back.   They were coming after me.   I had times where I should have stepped up more.   I had room to run.   I think I didn't do a good job with that.   I should have used my legs a lot more.   But it's all a learning experience.   It's just something to get better and learn from.

Q.   It didn't seem like you guys ran the ball last week, not so much this week.   Why the discrepancy? 
GENO SMITH:   I can't really tell you that answer.   We've got to watch the film and figure that out.   I know those guys did a great job with just attacking us.   They attacked us the entire game, and it's just the way the game goes sometimes. 
I hate to lose more than anything, but as a competitor, I've got to understand this is the way it goes, and you've got to bounce back from it.

Q.   (Indiscernible) how different was the challenge from what you've seen the past couple weeks?
GENO SMITH:   That's a stupid question.   Next question.

Q.   You gave a little speech or something after the game, I was just curious what you talked about? 
GENO SMITH:   I told them like I always do.   We've got to bounce back.   We've got to move on from there.   We can't hang our heads and let one game effect the rest of our season because we have six games to go, and that's really what I told those guys.   We're all in this thing together.   We win as a team, we lose as a team, and that's the way it's going to be.   We don't care about the media hype or the outsiders or the critics.   We're a band of brothers and want to continue to fight.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
GENO SMITH:   I play the game the way I always do.   It's just one of those games that everyone has.   Like I said, everyone has a game or two.   I don't think I played terribly terrible or awful.   I just think I didn't do enough within the game to get it done.   You know, I put a hundred percent of that blame on myself because I know I can do a lot better.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
GENO SMITH:   They're a good defense.   They rank up there with all of them.   Everyone's going to give us their best shot.   We're the offense that everyone's gunning for.   We get all the media attention, and everyone wants to say we're the best offense since sliced bread.   But the thing about us is we work hard from week to week.   We're not going to let this affect us.   We're going to move on from it and get better.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT