SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 28, 2010
Bob Boyd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Comments on your round today?
 BOB BOYD: I had some good birdie putts today that I didn't make and overall I hit two cold fat shots out on the golf course today. That kind of happened just out of the blue. But I tried not to let it bother me and poked along and tried to stay patient. 
 I think 3-over was a good score out here today regardless of who you are. So, the wind, I don't know what it was blowing this morning, I know when I got here it was blowing harder than it had all week in the morning. But it was a difficult golf course whether you were out in the wind or not. And the greens have got a lot of slope and you got to get your ball in the right area. 
 There's some long par-4s in 4, 5, and 12. And me, I'm just looking for pars, you know. I think most people are more than happy with pars. I look forward to the weekend and we'll see what I can do. 

 Q. What does it mean to not only be competing in this, but to be at 1-over?
 BOB BOYD: I won't say I didn't expect it. I've been playing pretty well, I've been out here on the Champions Tour for three years and I've been playing well. I was 23rd on the Order of Merit last year, which got me in this event. I'm currently 17th. So I'm playing well. 
 With the good lord's blessing, my health has been good and I'm not coming here to just say I played. I came here to, well maybe win is not the right word, but I came here to play well, and I have the game to do it and if the right things happen and I can keep myself calm enough, and make a few putts, just like everybody else, I can do well here. So it's not -- I don't want to say it's a surprise. 

 Q. Two decent rounds, but not what you wanted, that must mean there's something else left out there for you. 
 BOB BOYD: Well, if I play these par-5s well, if I play the par-5s better and continue to do well on the par-4s -- I may have an opposite round tomorrow, where I play the par-5s two or 3-under and the par-4s worse, so. 
 But right now I've got to be able to play these par-5s better. I either got to get longer off the tee maybe or maybe just swing a little harder, get some overspin, do something out there where I might can get closer to the green and make an easier type birdie. 
 Or I just got to play smarter. I 3-putted twice and I had bogeyed twice from inside 60 yards. So the little mistakes that every golfer makes, and I'm right there. 

 Q. What do you think of Ben's green complexes?
 BOB BOYD: Well I think they're good. I think they're a little severe on some of the longer holes. Because honestly on 4 and 5 -- 12's pretty flat -- but in general I think they're very good. 
 I think that there are a couple, I think every new golf course you come along you're not going to love every green. And there's three or four out here that could use a little bit of maybe some tender loving care or something. 
 And I think that, like there on 8, I think everybody would agree on the back side of 8 where the pin was today a little bit bigger area in that area would make that just a wonderful pin. Today I was lucky enough to hit a drive up the right side, I pitched up and had about a 12-footer there, which is, I can't imagine anybody getting a whole lot closer. So I think that area could be bigger. But in general they're very good, they're very, very puttable. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT