PLAYSTATION FIESTA BOWL: OHIO STATE VS CLEMSON
December 27, 2016
Christian Wilkins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Your thoughts on Ohio State.  
CHRISTIAN WILKINS: They have a really good offense.  There's a reason why they're in the Final Four because they have such a good offense with a dynamic quarterback who can run the ball and can hurt you in a lot of different ways, throw the ball pretty well and have a good running back, good skill everywhere, and their number 4, Curtis Samuel, heck of a player, too, can do a lot of different things.  And it starts up the trenches.  It's going to be a battle I'm looking forward to.   
 Q.  Did you see Noah Brown make that catch early in the year?  
CHRISTIAN WILKINS: I did.   
 Q.  Did that stand out to you?  
CHRISTIAN WILKINS: Obviously it was a nice play, it was a nice catch he made, one of the highlights, highlighted catches of the football season to this point.  I remember seeing that and everything.   
 Q.  One player on the Ohio State offense you need to stop, who is that one player?  
CHRISTIAN WILKINS: They've got a bunch of players everywhere, a lot of guys that can make plays.  Curtis Samuel, J.T. Barrett and the Rimington Award winner at center.  He's a good player.  And even their running back, they have a lot of good skill everywhere.   
So you're going to have to neutralize everything, really.  There's just a lot of different ways they can hurt us, not one you can lean, you've got to be ready for everything, to be sure.   
 Q.  Can you tell me about J.T., and do you guys, you see Deshaun all the time, can you tell me the similarities between those two guys?  
CHRISTIAN WILKINS: Just both are good, obviously good, dynamic players.  J.T.'s a little thicker than Deshaun, seems like on film anyway.  And just a tough runner, running between the tackles, he can break a lot of tackles, running guys over and everything.   
So they have a lot of similarities and a lot of differences as well.   
 Q.  Is there anything when you were watching him on film you said, man, that play looked like Deshaun, certain plays?  
CHRISTIAN WILKINS: A lot of their offense.  They have a lot of similarities between our offense and their offense.  So just a lot of the plays they run and just like when they're in this formation it's like, okay, their offense does that kind of stuff.  So just really --   
 Q.  Ben challenges anyone to have a better beard than him --  
CHRISTIAN WILKINS: No, I'd give that to him, he does a good job.  I want mine to be a lot longer and a lot bigger but he's got me beat right there.  I definitely give him the award.  It's pretty nice.  I like to tease him a little bit, tug on it.   
 Q.  He dissected the growing of the beard, step-by-step fundamentals.  
CHRISTIAN WILKINS: Yeah, his beard game is strong.  I need to take better notes because I got a little something, but not quite the level of his beard.   
 Q.  Do you ever get any like compare get in the mirror and like --  
CHRISTIAN WILKINS: No, we've never done that.  He's got it.  I'll give it to him, definitely.   
 Q.  What was your favorite part of your experience last year?  
CHRISTIAN WILKINS: It was kind of weird.  It was strictly all business.  We didn't really get to see a lot of things or nothing like that and just enjoy as much of the bowl game per se.  But just having a chance to play in the National Championship obviously, just having such a good year last year and just being able to make it this far.   
But obviously you want to win it.  You don't want to just be there and say you played in it.  So obviously having the chance to play would be the best part of the experience, but the worst part of the experience was obviously losing the game.   
 Q.  A week of preparation, schedule-wise, it's going to be very similar this year in comparison to last year?  
CHRISTIAN WILKINS: Well, this time we're here for the whole week.  Last year we were only here for like two days.  So it was just quick, boom, business trip, you're in, you're out, kind of thing.  But now we have the whole time to really get prepared and just get used to the weather and everything that's going to come with being down here, being out here in Arizona.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT