BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 25, 2016
David Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Please explain the scenario to us at the moment?
DAVID WILLIAMS: Okay.  As you can probably see behind me, it's raining pretty heavily, and this is going to continue until at least 7.00 tonight.  Hopefully after that, it's going to start to peter out and then it should be relatively dry then through the night and into tomorrow.
So obviously we're not going to get back out there again today, so we've suspended play for the rest of the day.  We're going to restart tomorrow at 7.30.  Those that are on the course will restart in position.  The first game that hasn't started was Sergio Garcia, he's going to start 7.30, and the remaining matches will go nine minutes after him.
Q. Still likely to be a 72-hole tournament?
DAVID WILLIAMS: The only reason it shouldn't be is if we have problems tomorrow with the weather.  But the forecast is that anything dodgy coming tomorrow should be coming in later on in the evening.
So all being well, we're hoping to finish at 6.30 tomorrow.  The last putt will drop at 6.30 tomorrow and the leaders will go off at 1.30.
Q. I don't know how complex this will be, but I gather going from two-balls to three-balls as you move along?
DAVID WILLIAMS: Yeah, actually, it's not that complicated inasmuch as we are keeping the same draw, if you like, or draw order, as round three, but just putting them into three-balls.  So this will enable us to finish as early as we can.
Q. And that is the key, getting it finished, isn't it, because nobody really wants an order like that for a final round.
DAVID WILLIAMS: No, obviously you could get somebody coming out of the pack, but otherwise we would have been redrawing and we'd have been going at 1.30 to 3.30.  So the final putt would have been 8.30 in the evening and if we had any trouble at all along the line, then we probably wouldn't finish tomorrow and we'd have to go into Monday.  And if you can avoid that, we'd like to.  It's about time we had a break, so let's see how things go.
Q. Any figures to throw at us? How much rainfall has there been?
DAVID WILLIAMS: Today in the last sort of four hours, four or five hours, there's been nearly 100ml.  So it's been pretty constant and on top of what's already a pretty wet golf course.  We've been out to the third hole, third fairway, a couple of hours ago, and thought, well, the entire fairway was unplayable.  And even if it stopped, it would probably be a couple of hours before it would be anything like playable, and the forecast is for it not to stop.  So we then decided we had to try and make some sort of solution for the good of the tournament.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT