ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
March 24, 2015
Russell Domingo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  How much of a risk was it giving Vernon his start today when Kyle has bowled as well as he has in this tournament?  RUSSELL DOMINGO: Look, he is a really good bowler and he's done very well for us over the last period of time.  He went for 14, and then he was very much in the game.  There is no looking at one or two individuals.  Unfortunately, it just didn't work out for us this evening.  Vernon has been outstanding for his team in all formats.  It just didn't work out for us today.   Q.  After the semifinal there were some saying there was a darkness over this team.  Do you think in this Twenty 20 semifinal and now so close, do you think there is any truth to that?  RUSSELL DOMINGO: No, me personally.   Q.  What will it take to actually win it?  RUSSELL DOMINGO: You need a little luck.  You need things to go for you.  You need to take your opportunities.  There is such more margin between winning and losing.  People will never say there is a dark mist about New Zealand.  I think that is the first semifinal they've won.  But people don't question that.  It's just the nature of being the South African cricket team, I suppose. But I particularly was very impressed about the way we went about our business today.  There was a lot of pressure up front, particularly with the bat for us to get ourselves into that position.  Sort of lacked a lot of character against really good bowling attack on testing conditions this afternoon.  And I think the calmness and the application our batters showed, showed off how far this team has moved forward.   Q.  Given there was some rain in the air this evening and there was some forecast, was there any thought of winning the toss and bowling first?  RUSSELL DOMINGO: I think historically we look at One Day Cricket with the new form we stuck with Lewis, there was 64, 65 with the side bearing first.  Obviously there is a lot of added pressure.  I suppose you were a little disappointed we were only given 16 extra runs.  I remember we played against Pakistan a couple of weeks ago, and they were given ten runs after being bowled out with four overs to spare and we just got six more.  So it's quite an intricate scenario, intricate way of working things out. We would have thought that maybe we would have gotten a little bit more, and maybe getting 25 or something like that.  That's just what was given to us.  That's the way it is.   Q.  How will you look after the boys after today, and what will you do to make sure they're all okay?  RUSSELL DOMINGO: Yeah, definitely the boys are broken, there is no doubt about it.  It's been a really tough, tough defeat for us.  I'm extremely proud of the way the captain has led the side.  He's done an outstanding job throughout this campaign.  He's backed up his stock with outstanding leadership and outstanding performances.  I'm so very proud of the effort they put in and the emotions that they left on the field.  It's testament to how much it means playing and how much trying to win a World Cup means for them.  So if there's any question on commitment, I think that can all be thrown out the window, because that is 15 men committed to cricket there.   Q.  You've still got time left on your contract.  How does it work in terms of going forward now?  What will the next goals, World Cup looking forward to?  RUSSELL DOMINGO: I don't know.  World Cup is four years, it's a long way away.  Now I don't know.  We'll take stock when we get back home.  There is a lot of thinking that needs to be done, and players go to IPLs and get a little bit of time away.  That is the last thing on my mind at the moment.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT