WIMBLEDON
June 26, 2001
Peter Wessels
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  The umpire made a couple of key overrules, especially when he corrected a call on Andre's first serve in the tiebreak.  You didn't look too happy about that. 
 
PETER WESSELS:  No.  But afterwards, from Siemerink, another Dutch player, that the ball was on the line.  But I really thought it was out, and also my second serve on the  -- on 2-love down in the tiebreak, I thought it was also in.  But they didn't show the replay so I don't know about that.  
 
Q.  So now you're not so unhappy? 
 
PETER WESSELS:  No.  Well, doesn't matter.  I just played a bad tiebreaker.  That's it.  
 
Q.  If you had to say one quality that makes Andre so tough and the champion that he is, what would that be? 
 
PETER WESSELS:  I think the constant pressure that he puts on you.  I mean, every service game, is so much pressure on you because he goes for everything.  Especially when I lost the first set 7-6, I was little bit like,  "Okay..." I was a little bit relieved, like was not a bad set.  Okay, I lost set, but was not bad. And, yeah, I just had to hang in there instead of being extra sharp in the first couple of games.  And he was extra sharp, I think, in the first couple games and that's why he broke me.  It was just straightaway.  I wasn't ready for the second set. 
 
Q.  So it's more of a mental thing in his concentration even? 
 
PETER WESSELS:  Yeah, I think he concentrates very well.  He's so focused and sharp and, of course, his ground strokes and his returns are, yeah, unbelievable good.  That makes him one of the best players, yeah, I think.  
 
Q.  Will you be returning to defend your title at Newport? 
 
PETER WESSELS:  Yeah, I'm going there next week.  
 
Q.  Is he looking as good as ever or better than ever perhaps?  Is he fitter? 
 
PETER WESSELS:  I have no idea.  I mean, he looks pretty fit, but he always looks fit to me.  It was pretty tough out there.  I mean, he let me walk a lot on the court when we had a couple of rallies.  I had to go from left to right and it was very difficult for me.  But he was looking pretty good, I think.  
 
Q.  I'd like to ask a question relating to the success of the Belgian women.  Does that send any ripples through tennis in The Netherlands?  Has that grabbed the attention of tennis folk? 
 
PETER WESSELS:  Yeah, for sure it's grabbed the attention, for sure.  But not like they're against each other, like they don't  -- how do you say it  -- that the Dutch don't want Belgium to perform so well.  I think those Belgian girls are very nice girls.  I know them a little bit personally.  I think they're nice girls, they're doing so well, they work hard and I give them credit for everything.  Yeah, all the best.  And I think a lot of people in Holland think that way.  That's what I think, yeah.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT