U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 8, 2007
George Zahringer, III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  First question is, it was pretty good round today?   
 GEORGE ZAHRINGER:  It was a very good round.  Not completely error-free, but that rarely is the case.  And I made five birdies, two bogeys, and a 3, 3 finish was pretty special.   
  
  Q.  Did you, did it take three rounds to get a feel for this golf course?   
 GEORGE ZAHRINGER:  I kind of, I listened to some of Tom Watson's comments yesterday and he are talked that he really wasn't that comfortable on the golf course yet, didn't probably know where all the shots ended up, given the various winds.   
 And I kind of feel a little bit like that.  But you learn more and more each round.  And I played some shots today, the key is really to get committed to the shot when this wind is blowing like it is.   
  
  Q.  What were the conditions like out there today?  Was the wind blowing a little harder?   
 GEORGE ZAHRINGER:  It was blowing right from the get go.  Probably just like it is right now.  These flags were whipping around at 8 o'clock this morning when we teed off.   
  
  Q.  Kind of a different wind than you've seen.   
 GEORGE ZAHRINGER:  Well, it's stronger, for sure.  We definitely played one or two of the practice rounds with 18 playing right into the wind.  So I think it's not a different wind, really, it's, we saw this wind earlier in the week.   
  
  Q.  Does this wind, I don't want to say because you shot this number the course is easier, but does this wind make some holes, does it balance everything out, make it a little easier in some ways, versus the other wind off the water?   
 GEORGE ZAHRINGER:  On the par-5s it's really a crosswind.  So you're not really picking up any -- and the par-3, the water hole par-3, 17, for example, it's a crosswind, so I wouldn't say it -- it feels at times like it's helping on a couple of holes.  But I think most of the day we played crosswinds is what I recall.   
  
  Q.  So it makes it even a little harder then?   
 GEORGE ZAHRINGER:  It makes it a little more challenging with these crosswinds.  And the greens are obviously firming up.  They were dry this morning.  They have got some front pins, and you better be hitting that ball out of the fairway, particularly to the front pin locations.   
  
  Q.  How is the set up of the course?  Do you think it's fair?   
 GEORGE ZAHRINGER:  Better today than yesterday in my opinion.  Not that yesterday was -- yesterday was just different.  It was, I just thought it was a little more approachable today perhaps.   
  
  Q.  Did that surprise you?   
 GEORGE ZAHRINGER:  Not really.  You could set this course up where par is 75 or 76.  So I don't really think that the USGA, they weren't, they like to make it, I think they would like to have the course be competitive, have good shots be rewarded, have a chance to make birdie.  I birdied 18 today.  There will be more birdies on 18 today.  Yesterday there was just one and I wasn't surprised about that at all.  But that's kind of the difference, and we saw that on a number of the pin locations, the hole locations today.   
  
  Q.  Did you see any low scores being shot today from guys up at the top of the leader board, with what you saw?   
 GEORGE ZAHRINGER:  I think so.  I think the course is playing, scoring-wise, it's set up more like it was the first two rounds.  So I wouldn't, I think that the pin placements are very good, hole locations are very good.  They're flat, they're accessible.   
 I think the key is just managing your golf ball in the cross winds.  And if you drive it in the fairway, these guys are so good with their wedges and nine irons and eight irons, I think that -- and obviously all great putters -- I think that you've got a course set up today where you could have somebody come from, be 3- or 4-under going into today's round, and if Tom shoots, if he just shoots an even par, 1-under round, somebody could shoot -- I think there's a 66, 67, I think there's a 67 out there today.   
  
  Q.  Do you consider yesterday kind of an aberration the way the set up was, compared to the three days that you're talking about?   
 GEORGE ZAHRINGER:  A little bit.  I think that 18 was a little questionable.  That hole location is, that's a hole location that works with 7, 8, 9 iron, something like that.  Not with a 3-iron or a 3-wood.  I actually hit a 3-wood in there yesterday.  Right into the same wind.   
 But the USGA does such a great job in setting the courses up, the hole locations, the tee boxes, I mean it's hard to be critical.  I mean that was just tough right there.  But today I think you got, I think you could see some low scores out here today.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT