U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 8, 2007
George Zahringer, III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  George, good finish, you watch, and you say what goes on at 18.  Tell me what's going through your mind? 


GEORGE ZAHRINGER: I was just happy to finish with a 3 on 18. I was just thinking there was a three-shot swing right there between myself and Danny. 

 Q.  How did you play today, and did you -- obviously you know what's going on with the low Am and what's at stake? 
 GEORGE ZAHRINGER:  As well as Danny's been playing, to be honest I didn't really think I had a chance.  Even posting 69, Danny played two very solid rounds the last two, even par the last two rounds, and I guess I thought I perhaps had a chance.  But I wasn't expecting it. 

 Q.  You played super today.  For most of the round you were 4-under; you finished still under par, but how is the golf course and how was your round today? 
 GEORGE ZAHRINGER:  Just very relaxed out there.  I had a good pairing with Mark James; he was terrific.  And we played very quickly.  We played 3 hours and 15 minutes. 
 We had crosswinds, I would say, on most of the holes.  Wind looks like it's shifted just a tiny bit this afternoon.  But I was able to control my ball, really, I think was the key.  And I played the crosswinds properly, played the wind properly, I guessed correctly most of the time. 

 Q.  I guess we should put on record go through the 18th hole, because that birdie has made all the difference now. 
  GEORGE ZAHRINGER: Well, I -- it's funny, I think that I finished 3, 4 the previous three rounds. I don't think I bogeyed 17 and I think I had parred 18, I think I had made three prior 4s on 18. 



 And I knew, I was very comfortable hitting driver because I know I can't hit driver into the wind through the fairway.  I had 203 adjusted for the downhill to that left front pin.  And I hit a 3-iron, replacement iron, a 3-iron hybrid club. 
 And I just hit a good shot.  The ball, the wind must have taken it right-to-left, probably a good 20 yards in the air.  It landed softly and I was fortunate, I had a good read and I made the putt. 

 Q.  You and Danny Green both 50ish, but still active. 
 GEORGE ZAHRINGER:  I'm 54.  Danny is 50. 

 Q.  You're not conceding anything to playing the U.S. Amateur, obviously this opens up the possibility of Walker Cup, the whole thing.  This gives you a summer of possibilities, doesn't it? 
  GEORGE ZAHRINGER: Well, I guess it does. I'm very excited about being exempt for next year. My Walker Cup and Mid-Am exemptions expired with this championship this year. And it's just nice to be able to know you're there, to prepare for it. 



 I turned 55 in April and although it's not on the list maybe Executive Committee might consider something for the U.S. Senior Amateur next summer, I'm hopeful.  And but, yeah, it does. 
 I played well last week, I won our Metropolitan Stroke Play Championship last week at Fenway in White Plains.  And I just, my game just sort of gets, it takes awhile for me to get going in the year.  I probably get a little later start than Danny and some of the other guys that are playing a much more active amateur schedule than I am. 
 But this is great, and it gives me tremendous momentum.  I'm going to fly over and try to Monday qualify for the Senior British Open and hopefully get into the field there. 
 I like Muirfield, I know it, I played in British amateurs there, and then really I've got the Metropolitan amateur, then the U.S. Amateur at Olympic, and then Walker Cup as a supporter of our team in September at Royal County Down.  The Crump Cup at Pine Valley, and then the Mid-Am at Bandon Dunes.  That's really the schedule for me. 

 Q.  How long was that putt on 18? 
 GEORGE ZAHRINGER:  I think it was probably about a 10-foot putt.  10 foot back. 


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT