U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 26, 2005
George Zahringer, III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 GEORGE ZAHRINGER: Well, I am thrilled beyond words is really the best way to express it.  I know that may not be copy, but it was just a great day.  I worked hard to try and stay focused.  It's easy playing a 36-hole match to let your mind race ahead.  Someone once asked Ben Hogan what is the most important shot and his answer was:  "The next shot."  So I tried to keep that sort of frame of mind and stay focused on the shot I was hitting and start not thinking about upcoming holes or maybe a poor shot or a missed putt on the previous hole.  Just try to stay focused; not get distracted by thinking when you got a couple of up, or when you get a couple of up, well, what does it mean to win and all this stuff.  That creeps into your mind, it does, so it's hard to  -- it's something that has to be managed.  So that's kind of what the day was like. 
Weather didn't bother me.  I wore shorts today.  I wasn't cold at all or uncomfortable or wet.  I don't know, the weather just didn't bother me.  And the least, I knew it would soften the golf course up a tiny bit; made some of the uphill putts a little slower.  But the weather, as far as I was concerned, didn't bother me.  We have had such great weather or the whole championship that it was just one day where it was a little rainy. 

Q.    Both of you had stretches where you'd win three holes in a row, maybe four, I think you did to get the momentum.  Where do you think the match turned in your favor?
GEORGE ZAHRINGER: Well, clearly the up-and-down on 9 was -- it may not have been the turning point but it was certainly an important point because Jerry's on in 3.  I am behind the green and that's a little bit dead back there.  Fortunate I was able to get the club under the ball, get enough loft on the ball and the ball landed softly on a downhill on a hump that -- that's so downhill.  When Jerry 3-putted and I made the 6-footer for par and to win the hole, I think that was an important point and then to go on and win 10 for the 28th hole of the match, I think that was an important turning point because Jerry had just holed out of the bunker on No. 8, on the 26th hole.  So I think that was probably -- all of a sudden now we have got eight holes to play, seven holes to play and I am getting 2, 3-up.  So I think that probably was the turning point.
Now let me just say, I am not thinking it's the turning point, but looking back in hindsight, it was the turning point.  I am not  -- there's no turning points until I hit that putt on the 34th hole.  So that's the real turning point right there (laughs). 

Q.    Was there a time or an instance where you felt that having this as your home course really helped you today at a certain shot or a certain sequence in today's match?
GEORGE ZAHRINGER: I don't think so.  I kind have had, when I saw where  how the USGA set the course up, I don't mean the pin placement, I am talking about the tee boxes, the tee positions, I mean, with one or two exceptions, I might have hit a driver over the course of the week in earlier matches, I didn't think today or if the wind might have been blowing a little differently I might have hit 3-wood.  But my game plan was pretty much set when I saw the -- where the pins  -- where the tees were set up. 

Q.    Both Jim McClean and your dad had mentioned that one of the things that might explain your longevity in being able to play as well as you have such for a long period of time is that you have never reached a point where you burned out; where you maybe played too much golf and too long a stretch, whether it would be when you were younger or in college or even as a mid-am.  I want to know if you could talk about that.  Did you always feel you were just playing just the right amount of golf and not too much?
GEORGE ZAHRINGER: I think that's an important point and I have always tried to manage my competitive schedule in a way that's  -- that fits in with my business obligations, with my family obligations, and it turns out that playing 6 to 12 events a year over the course of six months, let's say, is kind of sort of how I sort of juggle the ball.
So I mean, if I was single or married didn't have children I might  -- or independently wealthy, I might play more, or might have played more.  But the fact that I had these other obligations, was somewhat of a limiting factor, I think, and, for the good. 

Q.    No reason why a 49 year old person should not win this tournament, right, you are the oldest player; 49, you keep yourself in decent shape and health, certainly not a stretch thinking to win this at 49?
GEORGE ZAHRINGER: Only it  -- I think what's changed is you  -- the younger players of today are much stronger, I think, than some of the older players.  So there could be a venue where it might be a little bit of a disadvantage.  But there's no reason why an older person can't win if you stay in reasonably good condition.

Q.    Last year's loss in the final help at all?
GEORGE ZAHRINGER: Absolutely.  And the way it helped was in the sense that it kind of sort of gave me a little inner peace knowing that I had been there before, and the experience of having made it to the finals in a National Championship and now being -- finding myself in one again it's just  -- you know, the novelty maybe is not the best word but the novelty has kind of worn off so I am not in awe of being in the final which means it may be frees me up mentally just to be more focused on what I am trying to do that day. 
I mean, I tried to hit good shots last year against Tim as well.  But I hadn't been to the finals before, and so it was a little bit different.  Jerry obviously is a past champion and this is his third final, I believe, so he  -- all of that, there's something to be said for that cumulative experience.  I don't know have as much as Jerry but I had a little bit under my belt from last year and it definitely helped.

Q.    Not to be overly dramatic about it but after that event and being here at this club where you have belonged for a while how much have you thought about it up to this this coming month?  Have you been focused on it, like okay I have another shot at it come September here?
GEORGE ZAHRINGER: I obviously thought about it, that the club was awarded the Championship three or four years ago.  I have tried not to think about it  -- I have just tried not to think  -- I have tried to just work on my game and get prepared and not dwell on the larger metaphysical aspects.

Q.    Have you been to Augusta National before?
GEORGE ZAHRINGER: I have played -- I was down there once as a guest and played three rounds, about five or six years ago.

Q.    What does the mean to you to be in The Masters?  What do you look forward to about it?
GEORGE ZAHRINGER: What is not to look forward to.  There is so much to look forward to.  I don't know where you start.  I haven't  -- one thing obviously one of the things you want to try and do, a goal, is making the cut.  So as an amateur that would be certainly a goal.  I would look forward to getting my game prepared and working on the shots that you need to try and achieve that. 

Q.    How did you play when you played there a few years ago?
GEORGE ZAHRINGER: I shot 74, 73, 72.

Q.    From the middle tees how long have you worked with Jim and why did you sense the need to work at all before the final?
GEORGE ZAHRINGER: Well, my short game, my ball-striking this week had been a little mixed, a little inconsistent.  My short game had been very consistent and I hit a lot of good shots, and I made  -- my short game I think when my long game was a little shaky or if I had made a poor swing  -- my short game kept me in a match or kept me in a hole, allowed me to make pars.  And I just  -- I just had a little uncertainty about some of the things in my swing right now.  (Inaudible-sneeze) the same swing that I made 15 years ago or 20 years ago for or five years ago, make the same swing you don't make different swing mistakes, everybody swing has sort of built-in flaws when things kind of go wrong. The problem is that the swing thought or the swing key that might have worked two weeks ago or five years ago, might not work today.  So I thought I knew what I was doing, but I was a little uncertain and you know, Jim -- I have worked with Jim for close to 30 years and to have him come up and look at my swing and we just talked in some very general terms about some of the  -- I just kind of moving my head a little bit on the downswing and I wasn't really being able to drive the ball with any power, and just kind of getting trapped occasionally on some of my long iron shots.  And that helped a lot.  It gave me a sense of confidence of playing today.  And an additional sense of confidence over and above my short game, so it was great to have Jim here.  Great to win the tournament, win the championship with him here. 

Q.    Jim had mentioned that when he first started working with you hit (inaudible) maybe a hook over time you have developed that fade which has kind of been your strong point, your trademark.  How instrumental was the development of that shot in your development as a player?
GEORGE ZAHRINGER: Well, to play competitive golf successfully you have to eliminate one side of the fairway and now, you saw for example, Jerry had some difficulty today.  He missed some shots right and some left.  That's very tough to manage.  You need to get out  -- you need to eliminate one side.  In other words, you need to know that you are going to miss it on the right or you are going to miss it on the left.  I have chosen with playing the ball left-to-right, to know that I can set up with an out-of-bounds or something down the left so I'd know that ball is not going left.  Worse if it is in the right rough. 
I think it has been instrumental in developing it because it has been allowed me to compete more effectively and the reason it has because I have been able to eliminate one side of the fairway.  I don't miss it left and right when I am playing well. 

Q.    Were you at all surprised how poorly Jerry played off the tee this afternoon?  He hit the balls where  -- at this level just shocked  --
GEORGE ZAHRINGER: I guess I am to a certain extent, Jerry is such a terrific player.  I mean his record speaks for itself.  We were both hitting balls on the range during the lunch break and he was just ripping it and he can rip it.  So I was a little surprised that he was inconsistent off the tee.  But then again, you see what a fine player he is, look at the recovery shots he made.  So you can't just -- because he hit it off-line, you just don't say well, okay, next hole, chalk one up in the win column.  A player like Jerry, he's got great talent and skill and you saw that today. 

Q.    Did you ever play the tournament (the Masters) (inaudible) in your mind as you are playing those holes?
GEORGE ZAHRINGER: No.  Well, I didn't play it in the sense with myself knowing that I was going to be -- have the privilege of competing in the tournament but I did, of course, I have watched the Masters down there and I saw Gary Player shoot 30 on the back nine in 1978 I think it was, to go with a 34 on the front nine.  So I remember that round, I saw him hit every shot when I was down there. But no, I wasn't  -- I was thinking  -- when I did play it obviously you say well here's  -- here's Amen Corner and here's the par 5, so you just think about it in that context, sure. 

Q.    As the golf season arrives this year and the club started to focus on holding this event, how many times or can you remember a situation where members might make a comment to you, George you are going to win this mid-am thing, aren't you and did you sense any of that expectation from you know, outside other than your own expectation?
GEORGE ZAHRINGER: Did I hear it or was I  sensitive?

Q.    Both.
GEORGE ZAHRINGER: Sure, of course I heard it, and you know, membership here is very enthusiastic.  One they were very enthusiastic about hosting the tournament which is great; I am very proud of that.  I think they did a wonderful job.  I heard wonderful comments from a number of my fellow competitors at how well they were treated and how much they enjoyed being here.  So there has been a lot of enthusiasm that has been building through the course of the summer as we were getting up to the tournament date.
When I came up, of course, people were, you know, offering me best wishes, and  -- but I tried not to  -- again I try not to focus on that too much.  I didn't really come around that much.  I didn't.  (Laughs).
I played -- once the tee markers were in I played two rounds here after the tee positions were selected and I just  -- I basically practiced (inaudible) it was for distractions, things like that. 

Q.    Could you talk about (inaudible)  -- something that you wanted to  -- (inaudible)  --
GEORGE ZAHRINGER: A dream kind of suggests that there's something out there that's achievable, something that you hope could become a reality, and to be quite honest I never really felt that strongly about being able to win a   National Championship  or being able to win one of the National Championships that would get an invitation to play in Augusta.  So it's really a question of coming  -- it is a little learning experience, gain some confidence and (inaudible) sort of building blocks, I guess.  So i never really dreamt about it in that sense.  I never really felt that that it was that achievable. 

Q.    What is going through your mind now that the non-dream has come true?
GEORGE ZAHRINGER: Well, kind of relieved right now.
I haven't really thought about the Augusta part.  Being a National Champion is, I think, Tim Jackson said at the dinner the other night that it is something you will have for the rest of your life and for a career-amateur like myself, I mean, what else could you ask for. 

Q.    I know you talked a little bit about what advantage may or may not be to play at your home course, also playing such a familiar face like this morning's round could have  -- (inaudible)  -- does it give you some kind of a comfort level?
GEORGE ZAHRINGER: That's a good question because I actually  -- well, let me answer it in two ways.
One, of course we're playing here in the met area, at a club that I am privileged to be a member of.  But again it's also a National Championship.  Jerry Courville has been over the last ten years, I think, easily the best amateur both on the metropolitan level as well as nationally.  I think his record probably speaks for itself, of anybody in our section.  So on the one hand you are right, the physical local is here, and it could be a Mid-Amateur, and the other thing I am not playing someone who is doing this the first time.
Now on the other hand, I did think about it and I said well, you know, it's just another tournament.  I am just  -- (laughs) I actually brought it down to that level from a national down to like a Mid-Amateur or something, I am just competing against a very familiar face.  Actually I thought about that and I tried to look at it in that context while I was on the golf course.  Not competing for a National Championship -- (inaudible).

Q.    The met area has not produced too many successful touring pros but over the years it has been -- a lot of top amateurs come out of the met area.  Is there any reason for that?
GEORGE ZAHRINGER: Well the met area has always had, going back to will Willie Turnesa and before that, always had the great tradition of producing, you know, best amateurs in the country.  I mean, I am not putting myself in that group.  When you look back at the tradition, it is very rich.  Very rich and long lived for multiple decades.
So you have to really go back.  And I think part of the reason is that the metropolitan area is blessed as kind of the home of golf in the United States, the great courses that we have got, the courses that we all compete on in the metropolitan area.  I mean just look at how many USGA events have been held in the met area.  That's a tribute to the courses.  I think those courses tend to produce, you know, good players.  We have got the best PGA section up here by far, I think, of the met-- I am including metropolitan PGA and New Jersey State PGA, I think of that as one section, so we have got the best club pros.  We have got guys like Darrell Kaestner in Deepdale and Jimmy, you know, was here for many, many years, started his career in the metropolitan area.  So you have got great golf courses, you have got the best club professionals in the country, you know, the Rick Hartmanns of the world, I mean, teaching as well as playing.  You have got great junior programs.  So I think we sort of look at you know, mix that into a stew, I think that probably in part maybe explains why you have had a rich tradition of good amateurs in the area. 

Q.    Older golfer, 49 years old, oldest to ever win, does that kind of make a statement for --
GEORGE ZAHRINGER: Well, I hadn't  -- didn't set out to make a statement.  But I think I mean, when I was 11 or 12 when I first took the game up, when I was introduced to the game by my father, one of the things he told me and I remember it very clearly he said this is a game you could play your whole life.  Well, if you just kind of take that comment, it's a game that you can compete in your whole life as well.  So if there's a message I think that's the message.

Q.    (Inaudible) medalist has never won the tournament all that.  A lot of other tournaments you mere the medalist sort of jinxed, all that.  Being a medalist is that part of it -- I am sure you are putting up some good numbers, this kind of a good (inaudible) start to that as far as going into the rest of the week just  --
GEORGE ZAHRINGER: I have never put much credence in the medalist  --

Q.    Right.
GEORGE ZAHRINGER: I am not talk being this event.  I am talk being any event. 

Q.    Conversely you are putting good numbers up maybe it is a good thing and not a bad thing...
GEORGE ZAHRINGER: Why is it a good thing to send a message to the rest of the field that I am playing well.  So I think it is a good thing.  So I have never put any credence into -- the fact that a medalist hasn't won this tournament before is  -- (inaudible) I have noticed my co-medalist lost in the first round, but I have been a medalist in quite a few metropolitan amateurs over the years and have won them as well.  So it doesn't really bother me.

Q.    Maybe it helped conversely putting up some good numbers and ready to play in this thing...
GEORGE ZAHRINGER: I think at a minimum you get that  -- that's like just advertisement, I am playing well, no guarantee that  -- guarantee that other people are going to play well or you are going to continue to play well.  So I don't see it as a problem.
Fortunately it wasn't a problem for me this week.  But I did have a tough  -- my first match could have gone either way.  You always have a tough match like that.

Q.    How about an emotional response to the fact that you are a career-amateur and you have won the Robert T. Jones Trophy, regarded as one of the best career amateur players in the country and you have been playing USGA events for a long time; this is your first one?
GEORGE ZAHRINGER: Well, Pete, I think to even have a trophy with his name on it is very special.  I remember I thought it almost made me cry when I see it every now and then, his good-bye speech over at the Royal & 
Ancient in the '50s, I think at some point and I mean, it chokes me up when you think  -- when you see it, what a sensational human being, I mean, all the great qualities that he represented and lived, I'd like  -- I mean, he was  -- no one did it as an amateur better than he did, and so -- you know, those are qualities that you'd like to emulate, and because if you can, it makes you a better person and it may help you be a better player as well. 

Q.    Do you remember the year you played in Augusta?
GEORGE ZAHRINGER: No, I don't.  It was six or seven years ago. 

Q.    (Inaudible) do you know your record against Jerry?
GEORGE ZAHRINGER: I think in the certainly the most recent Match Play tournament Jerry had beaten me.  The most recent stroke-play event I think I have come out on top. 

Q.    (Inaudible)?
GEORGE ZAHRINGER: Yeah, we had one interesting -- not on the range, at lunch we talked about how to play the 13th hole.  And with that pin placement back left on that tongue, anywhere on right-hand side of the green, in other words, it's an area probably three-quarters or 80 percent of the game where Jerry and I were this morning, where Jerry was this afternoon, I mean it's virtually impossible, unless you make a 10 or 12-foot putt to  -- second putt to make par.  So we talked about it maybe play a more aggressive shot  -- you sit back there on that back tee and it's 205 yards or something to the pin, and you sit back you say, oh my God, why would I aim at that.  Well, in reality I just want to play to the center of the green, that's probably the wrong play.  Jerry made two 4s.  I took a more aggressive line this afternoon because we talked about it, it's probably easier to get it up-and-down from the bunker or you can make it left, you have got a straight uphill, little chip shot.  So I went at that  -- I played a much more aggressive shot this afternoon because of that discussion that we had.

Q.    (Inaudible) -- as you look at--  Jerry comes out of the bunker knocks it in the hole.  Match goes to all square at that point.  You hit it over the green there on nine.  (Inaudible) you get it up-and-down he 3-putts.  Would you say that was the turning point of the match?
GEORGE ZAHRINGER: Yes.  We talked about that earlier, 9 and 10.  And I won 11, so that was a big swing, I think, for sure. 





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT