ITALIAN OPEN
October 14, 2017
Maximilian Kieffer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Max, your thoughts on a bogey-free 66 today.
MAXIMILIAN KIEFER: I'm very pleased.  Played pretty lovely and holed a few putts on the back nine.
Q. You had a run of four birdies in six holes.  What was the key to that?
MAXIMILIAN KIEFER: Just stayed patient.  Gave myself a few chances on front nine and didn't make the putts.  Kept hitting good shots and stayed patient.  Yeah, I made a few birdies on the back nine, even though I left out the par 5.  But overall, I was pretty pleased.
Q. When did you feel the round kick in?  You birdied the first and it was a slow run.  Picked up on the back nine.
MAXIMILIAN KIEFER: Yeah, I left out a good chance for birdie on 10.  Then hit a good shot on 11 that just spun back.  So instead of hitting a 3-footer, I had like a 30-footer up the hill and I holed that.  That kind of got everything going a bit and from there on, I made a few more putts.
Q. How happy are you with your position going into tomorrow?
MAXIMILIAN KIEFER: I'm very excited.  It's a great tournament.  We're going to have great weather again tomorrow, great crowds.  I really like coming here every year, and obviously now that it's a Rolex Series, it's a bit more special, so I'm really looking forward to tomorrow.
Q. I know the leaders are still out there, but do you have a number in mind that you feel you need to shoot to win this?
MAXIMILIAN KIEFER: Probably have to get under 20.  Obviously depends what everyone does, but just have to stick to my game plan, hitting greens and give myself birdie putts, and then at the end of the day, you see how many you drop.
Q. What shape do you feel your game is in for the challenge tomorrow?
MAXIMILIAN KIEFER: It's in good shape.  I've played well the last two days especially and I handled myself mentally well this week.  Of course, I had a big week and I needed a big week to keep my Tour card, which obviously looks like in a good position now.  I think that's more the key tomorrow to stay mentally and stay in the same frame of mind.
Q. Does that take a bit of pressure off then, securing your card for next year?
MAXIMILIAN KIEFER: Yeah, if I secure the card, it will definitely take a bit of pressure off.  But right now, I should just focus on keep doing what I'm doing.  Pressure can also be a good thing.  It can give you a little bit extra bit of focus.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT