BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2017
Maximilian Kieffer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  68 today, and 5-under through four holes on the back nine.  It really came together for you.  
MAXIMILIAN KIEFFER: Yeah, I played very good today.  I played very good on the front nine already.  Actually I played better on the back nine I think but I missed a shot of really, really short putts.  I was really disappointed on the front nine early on, really angry.  I kept hitting good shots, which was obviously quite nice.  Suddenly I dropped a few longer putts on the back nine, so it's a weird game, yeah.   
 Q.  Fantastic eagle on 12, and the same today, but you made it a little bit more difficult today having to chip-in?  
MAXIMILIAN KIEFFER: Yeah, every year I've done quite well on that hole.  Obviously, yeah, like I said, I hit two good shots in there and just went over the green and it's tough to struggle on that green but hit a good chip and obviously got a bit of a run and got that little bit of momentum and a few longer shots dropped and one shot went in.   
 Q.  You've only made the cut once in this championship.  What's been the difference this year?  
MAXIMILIAN KIEFFER: Just the changes off the course.  I think it does suit my eye, the course.  Obviously the more you play, the more experience you get.  I always like the golf course.  I never really disliked it.  So just a matter of time, staying patient, and hopefully get some good results in this nice championship here, as well.   
 Q.  The wind seems to be picking up a little.  How will that change things for people out this afternoon?  
MAXIMILIAN KIEFFER: Yeah, it did get quite tricky in the end, definitely.  Once we got to the back nine really, the wind started to pick up.  The greens got a bit firmer.  It makes very tricky around here because especially the flags are consistent here but out there, you feel like the wind is coming from every direction and you've just got to trust where you think it's coming from.   
Obviously you've got the firm greens.  It's tough to get the right club in your hand, anyway.  It's going to be very tricky with the swirling wind and firm greens.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT