ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 4, 2015
Maximilian Kieffer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You started the third round two shots behind the leaders.   How good does it feel to go out and shoot a bogey‑free round like that?  
MAXIMILIAN KIEFFER:   It feels amazing.   I don't really expect it to be honest to shoot that low.   But obviously I guess the course played a little bit easier today.   But I made very nice.   Just stick to the game plan like the last few days and stayed patient and what got you there.  
   
 Q.   17th tournament this year and you've made every cut, four Top‑10s.   Ready to win tomorrow?   Does it feel like your time?  
MAXIMILIAN KIEFFER:   I feel like I'm good enough to win.   I think I learned enough in the last two tournaments where I was in the final round to win.   But we will see.   I don't know if it's the time.   I just have to hit good golf shots tomorrow and then we will see.  
   
 Q.   Thoughts on this course and leaderboard and the way you played today?  
MAXIMILIAN KIEFFER:   I'm very happy, especially the way I played today, and the way I was fortunate when I didn't hit a good shot.   Yeah, happy with the round today.   
   
 Q.   Bernd said there was a nice little contest between the two of you, and you're the one that stayed bogey‑free?  
MAXIMILIAN KIEFFER:   Yeah, I really enjoyed playing with him, he played great.   It was nice.   Good battle and good change out there.   I guess that's what you play golf for.   Those days when both players are on a run, it's a lot of fun.   It was a great day.  
   
 Q.   Does it spur you on having an opponent playing as well as yourself?   
MAXIMILIAN KIEFFER:   Oh, yeah, a lot I think.   Germany, Austria, not that far apart.   It feels like only good shots out there and the other one in the group also hits good shots.   You see putts going in from everywhere.   It was good fun today.  
   
 Q.   Are you happy with the week as a whole, because essentially you're a man who was leading at the end of day one and had to be up early to play day two?  
MAXIMILIAN KIEFFER:   Yeah, I was very exhausted I have to say after the round yesterday.   We obviously had to sleep in the first day, but then it was tough to finish that late and get up that early again.   And you always have a few holes here or there on this course where you leave a few shots out there and you struggle and you have to fight, where you have to dig in.   I managed that quite well so far, but it's really a golf course where everything can happen.   You have to go shot by shot and see what's going to happen there.  
   
 Q.   Excited going into tomorrow?  
MAXIMILIAN KIEFFER:   Yeah, I'm looking forward.   This course is a lot of fun.   I watched it on the TV for many years and now to be in one of the final groups tomorrow, it's going to be a good challenge, especially the last few holes.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT