BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 23, 2015
Maximilian Kieffer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Do you feel a sense of expectation when you come back to play your home event?   
MAXIMILIAN KIEFFER:   Yeah, it's definitely‑‑ I wouldn't say I put more expectations.   Maybe I do put a little bit more expectations on myself as well, but also from the outside, I feel like there's more expectation.   I guess it's a good thing.   You always try to improve and get better.  
   
 Q.   When you go from week‑to‑week, sometimes the monotony might catch up with you, but playing in front of your home crowd, does it help your game?   
MAXIMILIAN KIEFFER:   I think can really help you a lot.   It can give you those extra ten, five percent that you need.   But on the other hand, it can also‑‑ seeing Rory missing the cut in Ireland, it can also be quite tough because you have a lot of stuff to do in the week and not only focus on the game.   So it's tough to find the right balance there maybe.   But yeah, we will see on Thursday I guess.  
   
 Q.   Have you got plenty of family and friends come to watch you this week?  
MAXIMILIAN KIEFFER:   Yeah, my mom and dad, they drove down with me and it's nice to see some old friends here that I have not seen for a while, they come out this week.   A lot of German players that usually don't play every week on the Tour, they have a chance to play this week.   So it's definitely nice to see more people that I grew up with.  
   
 Q.   And your form at the moment, three Top 10s in the last five appearances, that's a good return.   Are you happy with where your game is at the moment?   
MAXIMILIAN KIEFFER:   Yeah, I'm very happy.   I feel like the whole year I've been hitting it very nice and very consistent.   So yeah, I'm still feeling I'm in good shape.   I had two good days of practice with my coach the last few days.   And then I'm trying to focus more on the energy level the next few days and not so focus so much on the practise because I've done well on the week already.   I'm hitting it nice, so hopefully the putts drop in and it can be a good week, yeah.  
   
 Q.   The course, it's soft, wide fairways.   The pins look fairly accessible.   Do you expect the scoring to be low?  
MAXIMILIAN KIEFFER:   I was out there yesterday and I thought it played‑‑ it didn't play that easy.   They cut the fairways quite narrow and like you said, it was a lot of rain the last few days I saw, and for that, the course is in great condition.   Obviously the fairways are a bit wet but the greens are excellent.   
I think if the sun, if we get a little bit of sun the next few days, I think it can get a bit drier for the weekend.   I think you just have to see how the course develops this week to see what score you have to shoot.  
   
 Q.   This is your fourth time playing in this tournament, and you've made the cut the last two occasions.   Does it get easier the more you do it; the more times you expose yourself to playing in a tournament this big?   
MAXIMILIAN KIEFFER:   Oh, definitely, a lot.   The first time was as an amateur, so that was a totally different experience and twice as a pro.   
Yeah, it definitely the experience helps you a lot to play in front of the home crowd and how to maybe handle that little bit of extra pressure and handle the more media and other stuff you've got to do.   Yeah, the experience helps a lot there but it's only my third time, so I can get a lot better there I think.  
   
 Q.   Similar sort of question, being in contention, you've been up there three times in the last five weeks.   Do you find it more comfortable each time you do that, as well?   Does it help you in your learning of what to do when you're in contention?   
MAXIMILIAN KIEFFER:   It definitely does, yeah.   Obviously experience is very important in golf but maybe on the other hand, the first time I was I think in contention at a European Tour event was in Spain two years ago where I was a much worse golfer than I am now.   But I was like so in the zone because it was so special and such an extra feeling.   
I play well when I'm really nervous, so that's really important.   So I think if you play too much, yeah, I have to be nervous‑‑ too much I get too calm.   In Ireland, I wasn't really nervous at all, so maybe that was why it didn't really work.  
   
 Q.   We'll have to try to make you more nervous before you go out.   
MAXIMILIAN KIEFFER:   Yeah, that's a good thing.   If you get nervous, it can really give you that little bit extra focus that you need.  
   
 Q.   I know Martin obviously won this tournament quite early in his career and it probably helped him in terms of going onto achieve what he did.   It's hard to say, I want to do that as well but it would be great to contend in this tournament?  
MAXIMILIAN KIEFFER:   Yeah, that to be really, really nice.   Just for the whole tournament it would be nice if one of the German players could do well, and then obviously there's a bit morefrom the people that maybe not so much into golf; and if a German guy plays well here, they will probably come out and watch.   So it would be just nice for the whole tournament and for golf in Germany if one of the German guys does well, definitely.  
   
 Q.   How much of an effect does that have, because we saw with the Irish players, when Harrington did so well, you got Graeme and Rory and Michael Hoey and Shane followed on.   Is it a bit like that in Germany?   Obviously Langer was further ahead.  
MAXIMILIAN KIEFFER:   You always get better if you are surrounded by good players, so that's the most important thing.   There are more German players on Tour I think and that will help me definitely to get better.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT