DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN HOSTED BY THE RORY FOUNDATION
May 28, 2015
Maximilian Kieffer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   That's a terrific round around here, isn't it?  
MAXIMILIAN KIEFFER:   Yeah, it is.   It was a difficult day.   I mean the weather changed all the time.   It was a bit of rain as well, and pretty windy.   Yeah, but I played good, and I think the key was today to hole some putts, and I had two 3‑putts from off the green on the front nine, but then I made two long putts after that, so that really like kept the momentum up.   That was really nice.  
And then I had some good bounces as well, so just a very nice day.  
   
 Q.   Well, you said it's difficult.   You're looking it make pretty easy.   You looked in control on the links.   
MAXIMILIAN KIEFFER:   Yeah.   I made a few long putts in the end of my front nine, and then I actually got‑‑ when I hit a bad shot, I think I had two bad shots on the Back 9, and both times I got a pretty good lie and then I was just thinking it couldn't go really much wrong today.   Just one of those days where you could try to play bad, but it just didn't happen.   
   
 Q.   I know it's only the first day, but were you conscious that you had the outright lead of the Irish open?  
MAXIMILIAN KIEFFER:   Yeah, of course.   There was a leaderboard there, so I saw that.   But it's a long week.   It's a tough golf course.   Some of the best players in the world, they struggle to shoot around par here, so it's going to be an interesting next three days, I think.  
   
 Q.   Do you like links golf?  
MAXIMILIAN KIEFFER:   Yeah.   I think it's fun.   I wouldn't say I'm very good on links golf, to be honest.   But I think it's just something different sometimes, and that's what's quite nice.   It is not always the same golf course that we play.  
The links courses you have to think a little bit around it more, where to bounce it and that kind of stuff.   And I see the shots very well around here, and even though there are a lot of blind tee shots, I really see them quite well, the shots here.   And so that's quite nice.  
   
 Q.   That's very nice.   With the links in mind, have you considered that there are spots at the Open available this week?  
MAXIMILIAN KIEFFER:   I know, yeah, but I'm not focusing too much on it.   That would be nice, obviously, to play the Open.   But it's just‑‑ you know, I mean you just have to think day by day, shot by shot and then at the end of the week you see where you are.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT