OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 29, 2015
Maximilian Kieffer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MAXIMILIAN KIEFFER:   Obviously I'm quite happy.   I took quite a big break over the winter and then I had some time to practice and prepare.   I feel like my game is very good.   The iron shots are much more consistent than last year, so yeah, I'm looking forward to the year.   
   
 Q.   Did you feel that you needed that break; that you'll feel all the benefits as the year goes on?   
MAXIMILIAN KIEFFER:   Oh, yeah, definitely.   After the first year I was a bit‑‑ it was a very long year and everything was very new.   So then if that break wasn't that long, I wasn't really ready for the second year and then I didn't play that well last year.   Obviously golf, you get disappointed, but yeah, I had a nice break this year and then I had time to practice.   I feel I'm ready for the season.   
   
 Q.   I suppose you benefit from the experience having been out here before.   You know what to expect and how to work your schedule out?  
MAXIMILIAN KIEFFER:   Oh, yeah, that helps a lot.   I can still learn a lot and which tournaments I have to play.   Obviously in the beginning, you want to play every tournament and get as much ranking points as possible, but you also have to take breaks sometimes.   
So you have weeks where you practice because it's the most important thing to get better and to get better, you need a little bit of break, a little bit of tournament and also some time to practice, but improving there and learning about how to do it the best.   
   
 Q.   Desert Swing tends to be among the favourite period of the year for most players; is it for you?  
MAXIMILIAN KIEFFER:   Oh, yeah.   Abu Dhabi is lovely and Qatar is very nice.   This ends The Desert Swing very nice.   It's a great tournament.   It's probably one of the top three golf courses we play all year.   I'm not a big fan of playing practice rounds but here it's a lot of fun to play a practice round and so I'm looking forward to play the next few days.   
   
 Q.   Are you the sort of player that sets targets, resolutions for a year, what you want to achieve?   
MAXIMILIAN KIEFFER:   Yeah, I guess everybody does it a little bit.   But in the end, you don't focus so much on the targets, what you want to achieve, and obviously I would like to win a golf tournament and get to Dubai at the end of the year.   But it's just a step‑by‑step process.   In golf, the more you want it, the more you look at the results.   I feel like for me, the worse it gets.   I'm just trying to take it day by day and stay patient and hopefully get better.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT