NEDBANK GOLF CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY GARY PLAYER
November 15, 2019
Alvaro Quiros
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Obviously back-to-back 70s after the first two rounds. How would you assess your day's work today?  
ALVARO QUIROS: Well, I think the scores are great for the level of golf that I have displayed, great, yes. That's the proper way to describe it.   
 Q.  Yesterday's round seemed to be a battling 2-under, and disappointing finish today but what do you think the big difference was between the two rounds?  
ALVARO QUIROS: Probably was more unlucky yesterday in the places that I miss, but I played the same level of golf. I've been missing all around the places but I've been able to recover nicely. I've saved a lot of long putts that normally with these greens, the speed that they are rolling, are very easy to make the putts. Clearly it's the ability to be focused just on the shot that I have right now at the moment, because as I said, you know, this is a very tricky golf course. It's tight and it's difficult to play good. So when you are playing bad, it's even more difficult to shoot low.   
 Q.  Two events left and back at the Nedbank Challenge, but are you enjoying the challenge this week's presenting?  
ALVARO QUIROS: Well, to be honest with you, right now I'm enjoying it a lot because this is a big event, but I've been trying to enjoy the full year, because every tournament has been a challenge. I'm very pleased with the two rounds that I have played in the first two rounds of this event.   
 Q.  Obviously the leaderboard seems to be tightening up a little bit today. Being 4-under overall, do you feel you're well set to go into the next two rounds and maybe making the DP World?  
ALVARO QUIROS: This is not pessimist. This is unfortunately the truth. I don't see myself shooting another 2-under and 2-under to end up on the leaderboard up there. But you never know, sometimes when I hit a bad shot, the ball is in the middle of the bush, and sometimes the ball kicks out in the rough, and I can keep playing. That's what I expect, to keep working on whatever is coming.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT