PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 12, 2013
Alvaro Quiros
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on the way it panned out today in windy conditions?  
ALVARO QUIROS:   It was a good round of golf.   As I said, unfortunately the 6 on the par5 17 wasn't that good, but it is like it is.   The most important thing of the day obviously is that I keep myself, I hold the position that I start with, and I'm going to have my chance tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   More of the same probably needed, isn't it, because it's likely that it's going to be windy in the afternoon?  
ALVARO QUIROS:   I hope.   I hope blows even stronger.   The golf course will be playing a little bit even more difficult than today because in that case with my distance, I will have a little bit more advantage to the others, but as I said, it's a very difficult situation.   
Too many good players on top of the leaderboard, so tomorrow you have to think, shooting six, 5‑under to be in with a chance.  
   
 Q.   Has it helped you that you've been competitive recently?   
ALVARO QUIROS:   Yeah, obviously that's the good news about it.   I've been playing well the last couple of months.   I haven't been putting as good as this week, and this is why I'm in contention and that's the biggest difference of the rest of the tournaments.   
Unfortunately it looks like the situation is going to finish for me, because I'm not in BMW Masters and Turkish Airlines, obviously not Dubai, but, you know, you never know.   
   
 Q.   You win this and you're in all of those.   
ALVARO QUIROS:   Hopefully.   Hopefully.   
   
 Q.   I have to ask about support because we don't have any Portuguese players over the weekend and you're now the local resident.   Are you noticing more support?  
ALVARO QUIROS:   I would like to say yes.   I would like to say yes.   As I said before, too many English around now‑‑ no, I'm joking.   Unfortunately Ricardo Santos who was the main one missed the cut.   So after that, I want to think that I'm going to be the next most following one.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT