PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 10, 2013
Alvaro Quiros
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Great start to the week, coming from a champion, how special is this week for you?   
ALVARO QUIROS:   It's always a special week because I consider it as a very good golf tournament and good people, the golf course is in good shape normally and perfect weather, and that helps a lot to start with a good feeling.   
Apart from that, this year has been a very tough year for me.   Even when I feel that I'm coming back and I'm playing better, I'm shooting better scores, today was the typical example, 2‑over after five holes, and I fight to come back.   So no complaints and I'm happy to be here again.  
   
 Q.   And of course playing in front of your home fans now, because you live here now?  
ALVARO QUIROS:   I'm half Portuguese now, I've become half Portuguese.   It's always nice to be at home and obviously it consider it‑‑ home, it's a little bit too quick, but yeah, it's where I live and yes, it's where the people are taking care of me, too, so good.   
   
 Q.   Are you fully fit now, and is there in relief at getting over those troubles and looking forward to a big end of the year?  
ALVARO QUIROS:   The thing is, since I come back, the injury was an excuse, and I haven't felt any bad thing about it yet.   So no complaints about the surgery.   What I have to say is the game was good, or okay, but the score was really average.   
Unfortunately I'm not going to be able to play the end of the season, so the most important thing is try to recover the feeling, find out what's going on and start the next season in a better way.  
   
 Q.   Did today's score, did that feel like it's been coming for a while?   
ALVARO QUIROS:   Yeah, there is no doubt.   The putting level was beautiful today.   That was maybe the key, and at the end, that's the only difference between an average score and a good score, and that's the only thing that I've been missing.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT