BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2012
Alvaro Quiros
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Thoughts on the days?   
ALVARO QUIROS:   Obviously I have been playing two good rounds, today I have a little bit more problems than yesterday, especially putting.   But even like that, my 70 today is a little bit unfair I would say.   But I'm happy.   I'm happy.   
   
 Q.   And do you feel that that is a good reward in what are slightly windy conditions now and likely to get worse?   
ALVARO QUIROS:   Yeah, I think that's going to be worse‑‑ as we can see, the better scores are from the side of the draw of my side, so I have to be happy to be lucky.   Obviously it's not easy to find out from where is coming the wind every single time on this golf course, between trees, big gaps.   Happy to be with 7‑under to start off the rounds, and see what happens on the weekend.  
   
 Q.   How much more difficult is it on the way home here, particularly, compared to the opening day?   
ALVARO QUIROS:   I mean, I still think the 17th hole is the most unplayable.   It's a hole that is no place to land, simple as that.   Justin, he hit a great driver, perfect drive, left edge of the fairway, draw into the left side into the left‑to‑right wind, unplayable.   He has to make a lay‑up with all the risk.  
I finish way, way more into the trees on the right side and I have to do the same.   At the same time, I think on the fourth hole today, they moved the tee again 50 metres forward, 4‑iron from the tee on a par 5.   That's stupid.   But I have to say, it's the same for all.   
   
 Q.   Elaborate on your time with John Jacobs.   
ALVARO QUIROS:   We spent 20 minutes to go.   John is a very nice person.   As a coach, obviously everybody knows him but as a person, I have to say that he's one of the nicest persons that I've ever meet before.   And I like to speak with him a lot because I would say, he's from the old school to me.   He's not that into the technique, he helps with the technique that you have and at the end that's the most important thing.  
   
 Q.   Sounds like he keeps it simple and it get in your brain pretty quickly?  
ALVARO QUIROS:   That's the most important thing.   
   
 Q.   No need for video swing analysis?  
ALVARO QUIROS:   I don't think I need to do that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT