OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 25, 2019
Alvaro Quiros
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You've played some particularly good golf on this golf course in the past, but nine birdies, 64, how good was that one?  
ALVARO QUIROS: It was nice, especially because I have -- my putting level has been great today, even when I skip two or three short putts.   
 Q.  Any particular key to the putting being better?  
ALVARO QUIROS: Well, I've been working a lot with José María, with Ollie, and with my coach, José Rivero.  It looks like it's paying off.  Last week I was putting nicely, too, so it's probably, even with these grainy greens, it's key.   
 Q.  What sort of advice are they giving you?  My viewers need to know because they want to putt better, too.  
ALVARO QUIROS: But that's a secret that I'm going to keep for myself, sorry.   
 Q.  So many good rounds start with a bogey.  Yours started with a bogey.  Any particular theory as to why that is?  Do you sort of relax or do you think, come on, I've got to really kick on now?  
ALVARO QUIROS: Unfortunately I haven't had the chance to relax in the full day.  But really, you can have some accidents in these bunkers.  The sand is very heavy, and I find out the bunker from the tee shot.  The ball was completely mud, so it was unfortunately an unlucky lie.  And from there on, I've been keeping up, playing nicely, holing putts, obviously, and I've been lucky sometimes.   
 Q.  We remember you holing in one on your way to victory here in 2011.  Do you lick your lips every time you think, I'm going back there, I love that place?  
ALVARO QUIROS: To be honest, I still remember every single time that I tee off from that tee, but I want to make the hole-in-one from 7th or 15 because either one wins a prize.  Because I haven't make a prize on the first two.  The two times that I make a hole-in-one here, no prize, so I'm looking for the first one with a car or a nice watch.   
 Q.  64 today, many congratulations.  A bogey and a dropped shot on the first hole, but it was all downhill from there.  
ALVARO QUIROS: Yes, I've been very lucky during the round with nice lies even when I was missing the fairways.  So that's what you need obviously in this kind of golf courses when you shoot nine birdies.   
 Q.  You're sitting now pretty at 11-under, which I think was the score you won with here back in 2011.  Might need to get a few more birdies, though, to lift the trophy at the end.  
ALVARO QUIROS: Yeah, by far.  Obviously I have to recognise, too, that the golf course setup is a completely different thing.  Around the greens we don't have any more heavy stuff as we used to have, and at the end, the wind intensity is what is going to change the direction of this course.  Either we are going to keep up or we are going to still be shooting very low scores to be at the top of the leaderboard.  It's true that the golf course is playing in perfect conditions, so you never know.   
 Q.  It's always nice to have the nostalgia and the memories of 2011; does that help when you come back to a tournament that you've won at before?  
ALVARO QUIROS: Well, to be honest, it's that far away that it's difficult, I think, to have consideration.  But having said that, Dubai and this golf course is going to be always special.   
 Q.  Maybe a little luck on the last day; of course you had that eagle and the hole-in-one, and you might even get a car or a watch this time?  
ALVARO QUIROS: Oh, that would be the top of the cake.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT