UBS HONG KONG OPEN
December 2, 2011
Alvaro Quiros
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MICHAEL GIBBONS:   Alvaro, your thoughts on today, two different nines I suppose.
ALVARO QUIROS:   Yeah, unfortunately I haven't played as well as yesterday.   Even though I managed the round well, until the first hole, my 10th hole, I 3‑putt there and I 3‑putt at the second and after that I didn't hole any good putts.   Finishing with a bogey at the 9th, I flied it from the right rough, quite common with a short water in front, and a bit frustrated, but this is like this. 
MICHAEL GIBBONS:   Yourself leading, good position going into the weekend, you must be happy with that.
ALVARO QUIROS:   Well, I made the cut, which is something good, something positive, having consideration that this golf course is not typical to fit me.   So, I'm happy. 
Again, you know, it's another cut that I made.   Right now, the target between this tournament and the following one is to keep my position in the World Ranking, Top‑50, to be exempt for the following year for the Masters. 
Well, I'm starting good.   As I said to you, it's a little bit‑‑ it's a shame of a round, because without these two 3‑putts, it was a proper number, 9‑under would be great. 
The most important thing is this afternoon, the people is going to shoot low, but anyway, I'm going to be over there. 

Q.   How did the conditions compare today with yesterday, and also the layout?
ALVARO QUIROS:   Well, I mean, yesterday wasn't that cold.   This morning it was really chilly.   The ball wasn't flying as much as yesterday. 
About the wind conditions, I think it was exactly the same.   The biggest difference probably was that we wake up so early was the only thing.   The pin positions were close.   You have a few of them that you can hit to them, and other ones that are just to the middle of the green.   But I found better the putting surface.   The greens were better.   Even when I holed less putts, but they were better. 

Q.   With your length, doesn't it feel like you can overpower this course? 
ALVARO QUIROS:   That's why it does not fit to me.   This is not a typical golf course that you need length, no, not especially. 
Most of the time you have to play just to putt the ball in a specific place.   Most of the time, it's not with my driver. 

Q.   You don't feel you can play as aggressively? 
ALVARO QUIROS:   There's no gap.   I mean, the 8th hole, for example, today, was into the wind, left‑to‑right.   For me, it's an impossible shot with the driver, so unfortunately I have to hit the 3‑wood.   And even the 3‑wood is a tight area, a tight island area.   It happens too often, the 9th hole, I have to hit 3‑iron from the tee, and except I would say the par 5s, the second hole is the only one that I really can hit the driver, and it's not necessary.   It's the tightest fairway that I can hit, but I tried it. 
Today with the wind conditions on the third hole, the wind was too much across of the right.   So it's almost impossible to hit the green.   I have length enough to hit it, but I'm not going to hold the ball on the green.

Q.   But two days you've said this is not your kind of course and yet you're leading at the moment.   How do you reconcile that?
ALVARO QUIROS:   I'm leading at the moment.   If we wait, we have to wait until the end of the day, and then I will respond to you, I will tell you, the same question. 
MICHAEL GIBBONS:   So you coming back at 7.00 tonight? 
ALVARO QUIROS:   Hopefully not.   (Smiling). 
MICHAEL GIBBONS:   Thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT