UBS HONG KONG OPEN
December 1, 2011
Alvaro Quiros
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Chipped in on the last?  
ALVARO QUIROS:   Yeah, and the other par 5, which is hole No. 12‑‑ I was trying to hit a three‑quarter 8‑iron and I blocked it a little bit and I put it pin‑high, and I found the hole again.   So two chip‑ins today.   
   
 Q.   How far was the chip‑in?   
ALVARO QUIROS:   The last was just ten meters from the flag.   I missed in the wrong place again on the left side.   If I'm not wrong, I hit 14 or 15 greens.   And I chipped in twice.  
I played good.   I gave myself a lot of good chances but I didn't hole putts, so I think it's a fair score today.   
   
 Q.   And it wasn't easy out there, was it.  
ALVARO QUIROS:   No, because‑‑ yeah, the wind is changing direction very easily.   Depends where you are on the golf course, you feel the wind on one side and the other.   In the end we have been lucky twice, because we take always the compass of the yardage book and we were right.   So I think you have to be lucky to shoot low under these conditions, under these windy conditions.  
   
 Q.   Spanish are playing well around here?  
ALVARO QUIROS:   I tell you, it's not my golf course, as you know.   You have to hit draw, which is against me.   Normally any of the long hitters except Rory have one, so I don't think it's my style.  
   
 Q.   How many times would you use the driver today?  
ALVARO QUIROS:   Today, well, I used it a little bit more because the wind was into on the second hole.   And then on the fifth again was into again.   And on 8‑‑ but three of these holes, normally I hit 3‑wood but with these wind conditions, I hit driver today, five, six times.   
   
 Q.   Had Rory finished when you started?  
ALVARO QUIROS:   Yes.   
   
 Q.   When you tee up and see that sort of score on the board, what are you thinking about?   Just trying to get there?   
ALVARO QUIROS:   No, no.   As I said to you, you have to be a little bit lucky to shoot low under these windy conditions.   So I don't know if they play in the same conditions than us, but obviously watching again Rory up there, it's not a surprise.   He's been everything single week over there.   
   
 Q.   How was it today?   
ALVARO QUIROS:   I played good today.   I haven't holed putts, but I chipped in twice.   So I think this is very balanced.   
   
 Q.   Certainly helps.   What happened?   
ALVARO QUIROS:   On 12, I hit a good driver but blocked my three quarter 8‑iron, pin‑high, not a difficult shot to chip‑and‑putt, but it was difficult to chip‑in.  
On 18, I thought, you know, when I was watching the ball, you're aiming too much, so I came out and started again, and I pulled a shot just enough to miss pin‑high left, another impossible shot, especially this area without too much grass, a little bit sandy.   So I was just trying to give myself a chance to putt from par, and then as lucky as that.  
   
 Q.   Presumably you played pretty well in tricky conditions.   
ALVARO QUIROS:   Yeah, I played well.   If I'm not wrong‑‑ as I said before, I think I hit 13 or 14 greens.   I think it's a good number under these conditions, and especially on this golf course.   You know, I don't feel nothing comfortable on this golf course.   All of the shots are right‑to‑left.   Most of the time you are chipping from I would say a fade/carry.   It's never consistent.   I think it's a good score.  
   
 Q.   Did you speak to Miguel as a twice‑former champion?  
ALVARO QUIROS:   No, we don't talk about that.   I know this is like the backyard for Miguel.   Everything that is good for Miguel is not good for me.   We have nothing in common (laughing).  
   
 Q.   But you have to take his example and play like he would play it to a degree?  
ALVARO QUIROS:   Obviously he won here, twice, if I'm not wrong, always coming back, so that means Miguel feels comfy here.   What I mean is normally he likes to move the ball.   I'm not the typical one who likes to move the ball.   I like more like the golf target, so that's why I think this golf course is not the best one for me.   But again, I think I'm good enough, too, to try to play well in every single golf course that I play.   
   
 Q.   You're tied with Rory right now, so are you confident that you can beat him or that you can do just as good as him?   
ALVARO QUIROS:   Well, I think it's just the first round, it's nothing.   I mean, Rory could be over there and finish ten or finish winning the tournament as the same like me.   So it's nothing‑‑ it's just the first round and it's just a good round of golf, nothing else.  
   
 Q.   And it's your second time, you told me‑‑ yeah, you were before once, so how is the difference between last time and this time?  
ALVARO QUIROS:   When I came here in 2007, I was coming back from a big injury, seven months out.   So probably this is the biggest difference.   
My first year on Tour was 2007, and this one was the year that I came, so I was inexperienced and I was not in between Top‑50 of the world like I am right now, so obviously focus on experience and game, too.   
   
 Q.   And yesterday, you ate some dim sum, do you think it gives you some good luck from that kind of eating in Hong Kong?   
ALVARO QUIROS:   I will tell you on Sunday.   I will check it.   If I still am with the same luck, I would tell you definitely yes.  
   
 Q.   Did you make some dim sum?   
ALVARO QUIROS:   Ate it.   
   
 Q.   Can you make dim sum?   
ALVARO QUIROS:   Not yet.   (Laughter).  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT