BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2011
Alvaro Quiros
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   GORDON SIMPSON: Congratulations, Alvaro, the lowest round of the day so far. And it's 'Wear Navy For Seve Day' and I think he would have been proud of your finish at 16, 17 and 18.
 ALVARO QUIROS: Obviously with my chip-in, yeah, difficult to improve. Long putt on 16, chip-in on 17, and great shot from the bunker on 18.
 GORDON SIMPSON: And a wonderful position now halfway in the BMW PGA Championship.
 ALVARO QUIROS: Yeah, but I mean, as you say, it's halfway. We still have two rounds to play and a lot of things good and bad to do (laughter). 
 GORDON SIMPSON: Looking at the position as it stands, with the weather conditions, would you have expected to be leading at this stage? 
 ALVARO QUIROS: Well, you know, it's a difficult balance. I hit a few really bad shots from the tee. But at the same time, I holed two or three very long putts, which in general, I've been always on the proper side of the green if I miss it, except on 17. 
 So I've been playing very, very safe, so I think it's a good thing, having in consideration the bad weather and the greens, how hard are the greens, they are tough and quick. 
 So you know, it's a good strategy, probably is giving me bonuses without hitting the ball great. 

 Q. Can we just get the detail of how long the putt was on 16 and how long the chip?
 ALVARO QUIROS: I was just after the green on 16, just on the fringe, so I don't know, 20 metres, approximate. I don't have too much of an idea. It looks very long.
 17, it's makeable, it was a chip, but it was seven metres, eight metres from the flag and perfect lie.

 Q. Was that from the back edge? 
 ALVARO QUIROS: Yeah, just outside the green. 

 Q. Is the golf course fair today, would you say? Too hard? 
 ALVARO QUIROS: Fair. I think golf is not fair, so I couldn't believe that the golf course is fair. 
 It's been playing like this. I mean, yesterday we had a lot of small showers. The other side of the field had really bad weather conditions. 
 So as to the others, they are probably going to tell you that they don't have the best of luck with the draw. But it's like this. You have to play with the things that you have, and I think we are the lucky ones, speaking about the draw.
 About the golf course, well, I don't feel a great difference between the greens from yesterday morning to this afternoon. They were not bumpy. They were a little bit slower, but the grass has to grow up. 
 So I think it was fair out there for both sides of the draw, morning and late. 

 Q. How difficult a golf course is it in comparison with the sort of course that you play most weeks? Is this one of the most difficult?
 ALVARO QUIROS: No, I don't think so. No, it's a good golf course, obviously. But the par 5s are reachable. Difficult to hit from the tee, but they are reachable. We play a lot of golf courses that it's difficult, the tee shot and it's difficult to reach on two. 
 But I mean, obviously it's not the easiest one. From average, I would say it's obviously to the most difficult ones. 
 GORDON SIMPSON: Thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT