MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2011
Alvaro Quiros
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q. A very good finish with that birdie on 18. Can you describe the conditions out there today and your performance overall? 
 ALVARO QUIROS: Well, obviously the pin positions were more difficult today. This is something that you have to take care about it. My driving, well, this is the question. Every single time that I miss a driver, I have to play with a bogey, or in the par-5s without a chance to hit on in two, so it's always difficult to make birdies. And as I said, I was very unlucky with the putting today. I have good chances, I didn't make it, so it's difficult to shoot 1-over without luck on the putting. 

 Q. And after the sparkling 65 in your opening round, did you feel any pressure to maybe equal that today? What was it like for you out there for you? Were you looking forward to that challenge? 
 ALVARO QUIROS: I was looking forward to the challenge, but the challenge was to make the cut. I know that's difficult to believe, but it's true. But I know, you know, the margin between the good score and the bad score here at Augusta is very close. It's difficult to believe, but I played good golf today, and I shoot 1-over. It's eight shots more than yesterday, and the level of game doesn't change as much as the score said. But this is the only thing that counts, the score.

 Q. How important was it to be very patient out there for you today?
 ALVARO QUIROS: It was the key. I have to thanks to my caddie because after the 15th hole, the par-5, without making birdie again, I started to be a little bit tired. I had chances, I didn't make it. Every single time that I miss a driver, I play with a bogey, so it was kind of -- I need to finish right now. But you know, he was very conscious about the situation that we were leaving. If we finished with four straight pars, three straight pars, it's not that bad. This is why probably at the end I think I made birdie at the 18th. I was pressing.

 Q. You're an exceptionally long hitter on the European Tour and world golf. You played with Gary Woodland and Jhonny Vegas. What was it like playing with big hitters like yourself?
 ALVARO QUIROS: Well, it was a very nice thing because for once in a very long time, I have somebody to see the clubs that he's hitting. I have something to see. Normally I cannot see the clubs of my partners or my colleagues. 
 No, obviously everybody knows that Gary Woodland hits it long and Jhonattan Vegas, too, but that's all. It's just a detail. 

 Q. Have you forgotten about this round now and are you thinking already about Saturday? 
 ALVARO QUIROS: I'm very happy. Probably I can celebrate that I made the cut more than the 65 of yesterday. About tomorrow, it's going to depend on my driving. I'm pretty sure if I put the ball in the fairway I'm going to have chances to make scores under par, and is the only thing that I think now. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT