MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 7, 2011
Alvaro Quiros
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ROB JOHNSTON: Good afternoon, everyone, or I guess I should say good evening, everyone. We are delighted to have Mr. Alvaro Quiros with us. He shot a very impressive 65 today, 3-under on the front, 4-under on the back, and in his three previous appearances here, his best round has been 75, besting that by ten shots, tied for the lead with Mr. McIlroy. 
 Indeed, we are very, very happy to have you.
 ALVARO QUIROS: Thank you very much. 

 Q. Just talk about playing in that last group of the day, and just the feeling out there and playing well. 
 ALVARO QUIROS: Well, you know, I was talking with my caddie about it, walking the 18th hole. It looks like I was playing in the Sunday afternoon in the leading group. I mean, it was a very nice feeling. Because normally, I'm watching this situation through the TV sitting on my sofa. (Laughter) but it was a very special moment I have to recognize. The weather was perfect, I was playing good and I was very lucky with the putting, so I couldn't complain obviously. 

 Q. Following that up, how exciting were the last six holes? Your whole group just lit it up. I think you were like 12-under through the last six holes through the day. Guys were making eagles and pars and you're making a run to the lead. How fun was that when you realized that everyone was doing what they were doing in your group? 
 ALVARO QUIROS: Obviously Jhonattan Vegas was playing well. It's difficult to believe, watching the scores, because for an instant I thought he was over par, but he was hitting the ball well. It's just like it is. 
 And about Woodland, he was hitting the ball very well, too, and playing well. But it's very easy to be confused just because of the scores in this tournament. It's difficult to believe that somebody who shoots 2-over plays well here in the Masters. 
 But if you follow these guys, you can easily see that it's not that difficult playing well. 

 Q. When you went out this afternoon, did you think that Rory's 65 was catchable? 
 ALVARO QUIROS: To be honest, when I arrived to the golf course, I don't even see the scores. I mean, I just check what Sergio was doing and Olazábal, and Miguel Angel, because they are the Spanish, the Spanish guys, but nothing else.
 You have to see, this is my third appearance and the others my best score was 75. I cannot be pretending to see the leaderboard; it would be stupid. (Laughter).

 Q. The last time I looked, I think your average drive was 309.5. Are you okay with that? 
 ALVARO QUIROS: I would like to hit it 320 in the middle of the fairway every single moment. But to be honest, I'm very happy today. You know, I've been struggling with my game for a long time. I know that is difficult to believe because I already won on The European Tour, but it's a shot of confidence. Especially on this golf course; most of the shots from the tee, they invite you to picture a draw, and the only bad drive that I hit was on the 14th hole, trying to hit the draw and I hit a push-fade to the middle of the bushes and after that I make five. So I was satisfied after finishing the tee shot and finishing with a five on the 14th.
 Apart from that, everything was good. I was lucky holing a long putt on 17, because the ball was quick, and on the end, I got two good putts on 16, easy uphill putts, long, but easy. I went to college. Meter and a half behind the hole. Again, you say to yourself, why do you have to make it that complicated? It's simple, done. I suffer, I make three, I make par, is the only good thing about it. 

 Q. Can you walk us through your back nine and describe the birdies and the clubs you hit and the clubs you had? 
 ALVARO QUIROS: Excuse me? 

 Q. Can you walk us through your back nine and describe the birdies that you had and the clubs that you hit? 
 ALVARO QUIROS: On the 10th, 3-wood, soft -- well, three quarters of an 8-iron, very good shot over the flag, like three meters, downhill putt, left-to-right, very soft putt. It was a very good birdie. 
 Good 2-putt on 11 from the beginning of the green. 
 12, another good chance, a very good putt, but we don't read properly the line. 
 On 13, a great driver. Not on purpose, I have to recognize, because we don't want to hit it that much left. But it was in the middle of -- well, it was in the middle of the fairway and 143 meters to the flag. It's always complicated. It was like a normal 9-iron. You know, the pin on the right, I pulled it a little bit, and a long putt, about eight meters, two good putts again. 
 On 14, I pushed my driver and I found a gap between the trees. It wasn't that far away from a normal shot, but the ball came out too big, too high. I hit the branches; boom, again, into the rough. Chip out, 130 meters to the flag. Decent wedge, about four meters left-to-right and I holed it. It was a good five. 
 The next one, a good driver, just a little bit cut it, the first cut, in the rough. We were between two clubs, 7 or three quarters of a six. I pulled a 6-iron to the back of the green, two good putts from over there.
 16, poor 9-iron to the right, the ball came back to the beginning of the green, two good putts. The second one was like a meter over the hole. 
 The next one, it was a good driver, soft wedge. I pulled it again, seven meters downhill and I holed it. Just before me, Gary Woodland holed the same putt almost on the same line, so I just have to follow the leader, follow the line. 
 On 18, massive driver, perfect 9-iron, meter, in. 

 Q. You're leading a major; with that comes pressure. How do you avoid a letdown round tomorrow?
 ALVARO QUIROS: As I said, my target tomorrow is made the cut. It would be stupid to think about to shoot 65 again, because it's not my way. As I said before, 75 was my best round here. It could be just one good round of golf. So to avoid that, I want to think in the next shot that I'm going to have, which is the tee shot on the first hole. 

 Q. Phil honored Seve in his dinner the other night with a menu or Seve. Can you talk about your interaction with him over the years and what it would mean to him if you were to win? 
 ALVARO QUIROS: I couldn't say what it could mean for Seve if I win a tournament. I'm pretty sure that in every single corner of this golf course, everybody will know what Seve did in his times. 
 I think he's a figure who marked something here for European golf. In my case, unfortunately -- well, I don't know if I'm too young, but whenever I hear about golf, Seve is coming back, almost his best level. So it's the only thing that I can say about it. 

 Q. How do you explain a 10-shot difference between your previous best round and what you did today? And a couple of weeks ago, you had said that is Seve had the hands an artist and you had the hands of a bricklayer; so did you switch? 
 ALVARO QUIROS: Well, the first one is very easy. The two previous years, I came to the Masters thinking that I can play well, shoot low. And this one was my main mistake. My main mistake, because it's a golf course -- it's too tough. Every single situation has to be measured. I mean, the risk, the reward; and today, I was very happy making pars. This is why probably shoot 65. 
 If I push myself to shoot 65 from the first tee, I tell you, probably it will be the same, 75, 76, like the previous years.
 And like the hands of a bricklayer, everybody knows I'm not the most skillful guy with a 58 in the hands; at the opposite situation, that's Seve. He was obviously one of the best ones in general, but especially with the short game. 

 Q. Watching you today going around, you seemed to be speaking nonstop almost with your caddie. Is that your normal style to be so animated? 
 ALVARO QUIROS: First of all, this is the first official round of golf with my caddie. He's a completely new caddie. So we have to talk a lot of things. (Laughter) We need to improve. We need to figure out how we are going to do it. And this is why we are talking as much as you see me. And at the same time, when you are playing well, everything is happiness. (Laughter).
 The problem is when you are playing bad. So let me enjoy today. (Smiling).

 Q. What is the name of your new caddie and why did you change? How did it come about? Do you remember his name?
 ALVARO QUIROS: I know perfectly. Gareth (Lord). He used to be the caddie of Robert Karlsson for a long time. And I changed -- well, I know that it's difficult to believe -- well, no, it's not difficult. Somebody who knows about golf will understand perfectly.
 But it's like in soccer, or in football: When a team is playing bad, you cannot change the 22 players. The only thing that you can change is the coach, isn't it? (Laughter) In my case, it's the same. You know, I cannot change myself. Well, I'm trying to change myself but it doesn't work. 
 So probably the only decent way I can change the cut is I change something. Sometimes it's not, how do you call, the final --

 Q. Solution? 
 ALVARO QUIROS: That's it. It was the only thing. 

 Q. Continuing on the football theme, I know you're a big Atletico Madrid; are you the Atletico Madrid of golf, big highs and lows? 
 ALVARO QUIROS: This is why I want to avoid every sign of enthusiastic moment. Obviously I'm very happy. As I said, 65 is my best score by ten shots, as the people said every single moment. (Laughter).
 But my target will still be the same. Tomorrow, a drive on the first hole and make the cut. I will be very pleased to make my cut in my third appearance in the Masters. 

 Q. McIlroy said he ran into you in the mall last night; were you at the same restaurant? 
 ALVARO QUIROS: Yeah, we were in the same mall. Yeah, I was with my family. Yeah, by accident. I was watching Rory play with a rugby ball with his friends in the middle of the parking. Did he tell you that? He was joking -- he was doing terrible. (Laughter).

 Q. He didn't tell us that. 
 ALVARO QUIROS: Ha, I tell you. (Laughter).

 Q. How good you with an American football?
 ALVARO QUIROS: I like the American football. I never tried it. I never tried it before but I like. I'm very -- how do you call it, sportman. I like almost every single sport. When I fly here to the States, I like to see the sports that you have here, like American football mainly, baseball is another one. But I don't have too much idea about technique, things. I know the rules a little bit, but that's all. 

 Q. Can you talk about your strategy on holes 15 and 16 and how it may change as you progress through the weekend? 
 ALVARO QUIROS: Well, I mean, we broke a little bit the strategy on the 15th today, because yesterday and in previous days, we were speaking about, if we have wind across or helping hit the 3-wood, because it's a hole that I can't reach on 2 if I hit a good 3-wood. 
 Probably with a 3-iron or a very good 5-wood. But it will be enough for me. But today we were hitting the driver well. So we said, "Come on, go for it." I didn't hit a massive driver, but it was pretty good, decent, in the right side of the fairway by two meters.
 And after that, on 16, is the par 3, obviously left is the wrong side to be. You know, we were again between distances. You know, it was a massive 9-iron or a touch with the 8. So I decided to go with a good 9. Unfortunately I pushed it. I blocked it a little bit, pitched in the middle of the green, come back until the beginning, two good putts. 
 ROB JOHNSTON: Alvaro, thank you for being here. Congratulations on a superb round of golf and we wish you congratulations the next three rounds. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT