TROPHEE HASSAN II
April 21, 2018
Alvaro Quiros
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Overall assessment of how today went for you?
ALVARO QUIROS: Well, I have to recognise that it felt a little bit like Russian roulette.  Suddenly great shot, suddenly not that good, but I have to really believe that I fight very nicely, and that's the most important thing, especially with the pin positions that we have played today.  Some of them were a little bit too much, you know.
I have played the first six holes in a very nice way, but with these pin positions, you can end up every single time in a 15-metre putt, a 12-metre putt when you are expecting to finish two metres away from the flag.
So I'm happy to finish in level par today because it was my tricky day, I want to think, so hopefully tomorrow will be a better day.
Q. Some of the iron play you showed today was exquisite.  Are you happy with how that went?
ALVARO QUIROS: Yeah, again, I have hit lovely shots where the ball finished so close to the flag and sometimes I wasn't able to hole the putt.  But in general, I'm very pleased with my iron game, yeah.
Q. Conditions today, very different to previous two days.  Did that help with the tough pin positions?
ALVARO QUIROS: No, definitely that's the only difference because today we haven't really have strong wind.  We have a little breeze.  Some moments was a little bit of a wind but obviously the pin positions that we have played today, some of them were completely, you know, out.  But it is like it is.  The pin position doesn't move for any player.  They stay where they are, so everybody has to play with the same pin positions.
Q. You take a one-shot lead into tomorrow and you've been in this position many times and you have a lot of experience.  How much will you be building on that?
ALVARO QUIROS: Well, the truth is I will need to see how my game is waking up tomorrow to believe in being able to shoot a decent score that allows me to fight for the title or no.  Obviously the players that we have over there are very good, all of them, too, so we will see.  I would like to keep working in the same way, build up for next week for China.  That's all.
Q. Is it exciting to be in this position?
ALVARO QUIROS: Yeah, no doubt about it.  I mean, that's why we are here, to be leading tournaments and being able to develop.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT