WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 22, 2011
Alvaro Quiros
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PAUL SYMES: Alvaro, thanks a lot for coming in. Welcome. Congratulations on your win in Dubai. You obviously come in here very full of confidence.  
 ALVARO QUIROS: Obviously it was last week -- well two weeks ago. And now everything starts again. But happy obviously.  
  
  Q. Just tell us about your thoughts about going up against Y.E. Yang in the first round. It's going to be a tough task?  
 ALVARO QUIROS: Well, I think everyone is going to have a tough match. We are the top 64 of the players here. I'm pretty sure that the 64 of the world can beat the No. 1. It's going to be always a tough match, especially with a major winner.  
  
  Q. The course out there, does your length off the tee, does that suit you? You have obviously got to be pretty good around the greens, getting up and down?  
 ALVARO QUIROS: The greens are very sloppy. I have to recognize my length here is bigger. Everybody is hitting longer. But it's not a typical golf course that the long hitters has a big advantage. Just because obviously I can reach par 5, but the greens are too small. So most of the time you can be in trouble if you miss the green hitting on two.  
 PAUL SYMES: Finally, tell us about about some filming you did yesterday. You were a budding cowboy, I understand.  
 ALVARO QUIROS: They were trying to teach me how to throw a lasso. It was fun, it was a good fun.  
  
  Q. You had a pretty wild ride in that last round in Dubai. Did you come out of that with confidence that I didn't could make those kind of mistakes and still have a victory?  
 ALVARO QUIROS: Yeah. Obviously it was a good -- it was a tough job. I have to recognize at the beginning of the day, I was thinking if I have the chance to make two or three early birdies and then keep going. I made it and then with a triple bogey on the eighth, all the plans were gone.   
  After that, watching the leaderboard, I still have a chance to win. This is why I keep myself positive and in position  
  
  Q. After you made the triple, what was going through your mind? I mean, we can look back on it now and say he pulled it out?  
 ALVARO QUIROS: It was easy in a way. I can't obviously give up after that type of bogey. But we have to see, too, that after a triple bogey I was tied for second. This is why probably I keep myself positive. I'm thinking that I can still do it.   
  
  Q. The par 3, 6th hole, about 185 yards, I'm just wondering, what is your strategy there? Do you take a special line? Do you try to avoid certainly things there? How do you play that hole?   
 ALVARO QUIROS: It's a par 3, right?   
  
  Q. Yeah.   
 ALVARO QUIROS: Normally I try to hit the green from the tee. Like all the greens here, you have to be very focused in where you want to see your ball landing. In this green, especially left side is the wrong side to be. At the same time, from the right side it's not easy to recover. So you have to play with the pin position, depending where is the pin located, I will play to finishing in the flag alone or in the flag and short, maybe.  
  
  Q. What about the 12th hole? There is a lot of danger on that hole as far as a pot bunker in front, a lot of different quadrants on the green. Talk about the 12th a little bit?  
 ALVARO QUIROS: 12 is another par-3, right? The same study. In this one probably I have to take care about from what is blowing the wind. It is going to depend a little bit if I have wind into or wind helping. We are going to hit a long club for sure. If we have wind into, it will be easy to stop the ball. If it's not, I will play again with a pin position. It's not easy to keep the ball in the wind.   
  
  Q. Does the setting here with the cactus and the mountain and everything remind you of an Old West movie or cowboy movie?  
 ALVARO QUIROS: It is the same situation, you are right. For us, well, for me, coming from Spain, we have nothing similar. This is something spectacular, something -- yeah, it is a good fun.  
 PAUL SYMES: Thanks a lot. Play well this week.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT