COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
February 5, 2011
Alvaro Quiros
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. I take it that's a very special round. 
 ALVARO QUIROS: Yeah, I'm very happy. Obviously to shoot 66 on a golf course like this, even when we have the easiest day, is a great thing. Obviously I still have the feeling that I can reduce this score a little bit more, but I have to be happy. It's going to give me the chance to be tomorrow in the Top-10 for sure and have a little chance, depending on what the leaders make.
 Obviously recover myself from a bad round, the first round, having a bad putting and not a lot of confidence.

 Q. I'm sure the winds made a lot of difference, but what were the key things over today compared to the other days when you were under the radar? 
 ALVARO QUIROS: Mentally, I have to speak mentally, it was a bit different. I was trying just to play what I was watching. I wasn't trying to go forward. Before I hit the shots -- I couldn't complain. I couldn't be thinking, where is the ball going to finish, where it is not going to finish, how much am I going to fly the ball. Mainly this is the only difference between the first round and the second and third, because yesterday I played good, too, but I waste a lot of shots, too. But we will see.

 Q. Is it tougher for you this year, the course? You love this place. You've won and come second. 
 ALVARO QUIROS: There's no doubt. I mean, I have to speak with Chris Myers, because they are putting all of the things to make a winner of a different person than me. They are tight fairways and high rough. But at the same time, it's a good challenge for everybody, and especially for me that I'm not very -- I'm not the most accurate from the tee. 

 Q. They love you here. They wouldn't trick it up just to make it Alvaro-proof?
 ALVARO QUIROS: Obviously the changes, they are not for me, obviously. They are to make the golf course a little more difficult for everyone. The greens today were perfectly cut and the wind didn't blow. Otherwise, my 66, it will turn to a 69, and all of the scores are the same. Because normally in, normal conditions, you have wind, a little bit of wind, and tight fairways. 
 So it's difficult to shoot low here. If you are lucky like me, I'm having 12 or 11 holes without almost wind, you can shoot a really good score and then save it for the last five holes. 

 Q. You can't be surprised that your 66 has put you right up in contention, but are you a little surprised that the leaders at the moment have not really kicked on? 
 ALVARO QUIROS: Well, it's not a golf course that you can make birdies on all of the holes. You have to wait until your chances. Obviously everybody knows the good chances on the back nine are 10, 16 and 18. Today a little more difficult to make birdie at the 18th, so the leaders have to wait. You have to see really what's going on until they finish. Normally they are not going to make a lot of birdies between 11 and 15. But anything can happen. 

 Q. Come what may, you've given yourself a chance. 
 ALVARO QUIROS: I wish. I wish. I wish to have a good chance. I mean, if you are behind for five, six shots, you cannot really be thinking you're having a chance. At least all of the leaders come down, but that is not going to happen. Normally at least one or two places between you and the leader are going to play well. So you have always to go over, two or three shots more. 
 No, I need to be Top-5 and see how much is left between me and the leaders to have a real chance. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT