DUBAI WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY DP WORLD
November 27, 2010
Alvaro Quiros
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  Third Round 68. 8-Under. 208 Total.  
   
  Q. The final total doesn't always tell the story, what sort of 69 was that?   
 ALVARO QUIROS: Well, I mean, a little bit better, because I've been putting well today, I have to be honest, I holed very many good putts, about a metre and a half, two metres and a metre. With the wind and how the greens are going, is not easy.   
 So this is why I was so happy until, you know, a stupid bogey again on the 8th. Wrong club again. No chance to make three. Two good putts.  
 And on 18, unfortunately, an impossible lie. I mean, almost I cannot hit the ball. I was trying to hit the second shot with a little bit of draw, because I was tight. I was between clubs and unfortunately the lie of the third shot was impossible.   
 So after that, it was a good fight. But in general, it's a good score.   
  
  Q. You are one of the longest hitters on Tour and yet you told me the other day, you're going to the gym. Are you going to get even longer.   
 ALVARO QUIROS: Well, I'm going to start going to the gym in the winter break, yeah. I mean, obviously everybody has to go, and if we go to the gym, it's not just to get stronger. It's to become a little bit more consistent in the game, too.   
  
  Q. How do you feel about your chances tomorrow then? It's a very bunched leaderboard and lots of very high-classed players there?  
 ALVARO QUIROS: Obviously it is a tournament that we have a lot of good players, and this is why it's even more painful finishing with five, with bogey, par on the last two, because I know that every shot counts with the level of players that we have.  
  
  Q. Martin is playing an incredible year this year, so you know him very well, how is the development of Martin during the year?   
 ALVARO QUIROS: Well, I think Martin is doing the things great. Mainly his putting is something over, over the limit, so that's why the scores are that good.   
 And at the same time, Martin has been playing good for last three years, so it's nothing new.  
  
  Q. Next year, he'll start n as Europe's No. 1, do you think it will affect him or he will change in some way?   
 ALVARO QUIROS: No, I'm completely sure he's not going to change anything. At the opposite; I think could be even more motivation for him to keep himself in the top of The Race to Dubai next year.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT