ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 9, 2010
Alvaro Quiros
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What's your thoughts on today.
 ALVARO QUIROS: It's a good day. I think it was a day that I hit it more consistent, did not hit it pretty well either but I hit more greens, a few good shots. Unfortunately I left some putts behind, but, I mean, it's not easy putting on these greens, and I have to be happy.

 Q. It was difficult conditions there, cold and windy?
 ALVARO QUIROS: Obviously we were lucky, because the difficult day was yesterday, there's no doubt about it, here at Carnoustie, but at the same time, you have to shoot always low to keep up yourself in these kind of golf tournaments. In my case, I have to be very happy. I'm not playing well. Hopefully tomorrow, my game improves a little bit and I can have a chance to fight for the title. 

 Q. The first round, without a dropped shot, that must be pleasing?
 ALVARO QUIROS: Yeah, that's it. Yesterday I make just one bogey and today no bogeys, and on a golf course like Carnoustie with perfect weather is always difficult; but with this breeze and this it cold, it's difficult. I kept myself off the wrong side of the fairways and the wrong side of the greens and it helps a lot but at the same time, you can see that I don't have really clear chances to make a lot of birdies. 

 Q. Two shots behind going into the final round, how would you assess that position?
 ALVARO QUIROS: St. Andrews is a completely different story. I mean, in St. Andrews, to win a tournament like this one tomorrow, I know that I have to shoot low. Not because myself only, but because it's Martin Kaymer over there, Lee Westwood, Harrington. There are big names and obviously there is the leader and he is playing well. And tomorrow, if he shoots low, we can't do anything. 

 Q. Do you prefer to be in the second to last group knowing what you have to do or would you like to be in the final group? 
 ALVARO QUIROS: Well, normally I have to say that I am very comfortable under pressure. I prefer to be just on the top. That's my sweet point. Obviously I'm not hitting well. But if I put a lot of pressure on myself, probably cannot play well.
 So I think it's a good thing to be just before the leaders. 

 Q. And you can also set targets; you can also make them look at you?
 ALVARO QUIROS: But I tell you, it's going to be very, very important for me just to keep myself under pressure, because for me, I'm No. 51 right now on The Race to Dubai, and it could be a great thing to be top three in this tournament, and then see what happens in the next few weeks. 

 Q. On a different topic, as a Spaniard, you must be terrified of the prospect of facing Scotland at Hampden on Tuesday night. You're only the world champions, surely you have no chance at all. 
 ALVARO QUIROS: Well, in Scottish weather in the stadium, it's going to be difficult for us. But hopefully Spain are playing better than me mentally and physically.

 Q. Do you think you have a chance? 
 ALVARO QUIROS: A small chance. It's going to be a tough match for sure (laughter). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT