JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 27, 2010
Alvaro Quiros
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Not happy with the finish? 
 ALVARO QUIROS: Not happy with the first two days that I played, but the last, I would say, month and a half, I've been playing like that. When I miss a shot, I make a bogey or a double-bogey. And when I make good shots, and I don't make birdies. So it's difficult to be the top of the leaderboard playing like that. 

 Q. Is there a reason for that?
 ALVARO QUIROS: Well, I would say The Ryder Cup, obviously, I'm being too focused on just the scores instead just to be on the game.

 Q. Do you think that's affected you? 
 ALVARO QUIROS: No, no, I don't think; I know. It's a fact. Since I'm start to be close to the date of finishing the qualification, I'm watching myself in position, playing good; not playing great, playing good. Just thinking one good tournament again, I will be done. 

 Q. That's life?
 ALVARO QUIROS: Yeah, it's some experience for the next time, and not just for next time, every day. The only thing we can control is the game. I have to be more happy on the golf course, not thinking this putt cost me a bogey and I'm going to be away from the team or whatever. 

 Q. Is there a chance you can go out tomorrow with a new attitude?
 ALVARO QUIROS: I tried it today, I was playing good but suddenly I missed one fairway, I made bogey at the 11th and I missed the fairway again on 14 and I made bogey again. I missed to the wrong side on 17 and I made bogey again. I made recovery shots and when I have chances to make birdies like 18 holes, it was less than a metre putt and I miss it again.

 Q. Just have to do the same again tomorrow, a low round tomorrow would get you back in?
 ALVARO QUIROS: I've been watching for players that have been playing with me, Dyson and Peter Hanson, they make a thousand putts, thousands, almost all the day they are holing. 
 I was joking with Peter Hanson because he was complaining about it. I said, "Well, give me your putts and I will tell you how I finish in two rounds." 
 And Simon Dyson is impressive. He has been holing everything today. Yesterday, three quarters, today, full, hundred per cent, it's amazing. This is the only way; when you miss fairways or you miss greens and you leave yourself putts like two metres around the hole, it's what you need to make putts. 

 Q. What do you have to do tomorrow to get back in the tournament?
 ALVARO QUIROS: Well, I mean, I'm far away right now from my best moments, obviously, but just because I know that I'm not going to have chances for anything, for The Ryder Cup, for the golf tournament. So it's just a weekend. Unfortunately it's just a weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT