BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 25, 2010
Alvaro Quiros
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Alvaro, 68, 67, are you happy?   
 ALVARO QUIROS: To be honest, today my attitude wasn't the best one. I have to recognise that I was like almost depressive on the golf course without a reason. I started to miss short putts and it becomes a little bit, you know, sad. But for the same price, you know, I make the birdie at 13 and I come up and then I start to play a little bit better.   
  
  Q. Coming to a golf course where you have to make a lot of birdies, do you feel 9-under is really not the score you're looking for the first two days?   
 ALVARO QUIROS: Well, here is the problem. This is what I told you, after the first five holes, I was really close to the flag and I didn't hole anything. It's very difficult when you have chances to catch the proper spots, but this is like it is. I have a lot of chances. My length here is an advantage, of course, on all of the golf course, but especially this one I can reach the par 5s.   
 We are only halfway, so hopefully I still have a chance.   
  
  Q. You're right on last spot in The Ryder Cup list at the moment. What tournaments are you going to play after this? You'll want to stay on that team, won't you?  
 ALVARO QUIROS: It's been something to debate with my caddie because right now I'm planning to play all, all the tournaments, except I don't know which one, because I want to be on this team for sure.   
 For sure I'm going to play next week in France, Loch Lomond and the Open. After that, I will see.  
  
  Q. Has captain Colin said anything to you yet?   
 ALVARO QUIROS: Not that I know of. I don't know if he speak with somebody but not me, no the yet. I have to fight to get on to the team until the last tournament like everybody. I'm okay.   
  
  Q. And for this weekend, is it all guns blazing, do you have to go for everything?   
 ALVARO QUIROS: No, yesterday and today I played really well. I missed shots, some of them stupid shots I have to say but at the same time I've been hitting great shots with the middle irons, the par 3, very good chances.  
 I think I have to stay like that. You know, the weekends, the people don't shoot normally that low like on the first two rounds, so hopefully I'm going to have chances.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT