COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
January 30, 2010
Alvaro Quiros
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ALVARO QUIROS: I'm going to have chances to win the tournament, but the good news about its, I am going to be in a good spot to be Top-10. So at the end, it's going to be a good defence of the title.   
  
  Q. You really don't feel you have a chance to win the title, because there are low scores possible here; we have seen them in the final round before.   
 ALVARO QUIROS: Yeah, but I don't know why, I don't feel myself in contention. I don't feel to shoot a round of 66, 65. Today I shoot 68 and I miss a lot of putts, and I don't hole nothing important. That could change in a day, for sure, but I would like to think more in making a good score.   
  
  Q. At least you're not putting any kind of pressure or onus or expectation on yourself on the final day.   
 ALVARO QUIROS: It's not a question, it's a question of to be honest with myself. If I was playing better, I can tell you, hey, I could have a chance, a small chance, but I can have it. But I'm playing okay. I'm missing putts. I'm missing some shots with short clubs. So I don't feel myself like to be fighting tomorrow.  
  
  Q. What is it about the greens, or not necessarily the greens, but your putting this year?  
 ALVARO QUIROS: The greens are great but today I don't know why, suddenly I'm not holing putts. I holed a good putt on 14 or something like that, and I make a good 2-putt on 18 with a little break but nothing great. It's a little bit strange.   
 The greens are good, and the weather conditions yesterday and today, they were great, too. So it's not scores; the scores are available. Today the scores are better.   
  
  Q. Are you surprised to be 7-under, only four or five maybe back at the end of the day; have you surprised yourself?   
 ALVARO QUIROS: No. I mean, the golf course, I can say it fits for me. It's a shame for me that the rough is deep and the fairways are narrow, but even like that, if I play well, I'm going to have my chances.   
 But I don't think a golfer like me should only be waiting if the golf course suits him or not. Honestly speaking, I can win on every golf course that we play, but I have to play well, and possibly, the reason why I don't feel to be in contention, is I'm not playing great. I'm playing okay, and it's not enough.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT