ABU DHABI GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 23, 2010
Alvaro Quiros
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. That wasn't well done in the least but you're in fine position?  
 ALVARO QUIROS: Well, I have to see how the final day is finished, but yeah, at the beginning it looks like I'm going to be three or four shots off the lead, so it's a good position, anyway.  
  
  Q. Certainly the game is taking nice shape over the three days of what could be very rusty?  
 ALVARO QUIROS: Yeah, I mean, the thing is, every day I have been missing -- well, with my new swing, the shape of the ball is different, so, for example, with left-to-right wind, I don't feel very comfortable. But it's just a question of practise. I have to practise more.   
 So that's why I've been finishing bogey, par over the last two days, and I finished more or less -- I'm happy, but being honest, as you said, I'm in a nice position.   
  
  Q. Why change the swing? Players do this all the time, things are going nicely --  
 ALVARO QUIROS: For me I have a power and I have to control. The new changes are coming to control more the power of my swing, to be more average with the control distance and I try to hit the ball more square, not draw or fade, just more straight.   
  
  Q. It's not a sexy word, but will that increase the consistency across tournaments, do you reckon?   
 ALVARO QUIROS: As I said, last year, I would like to be fighting for The Ryder Cup Team and the only way is going to be improving.  
  
  Q. I heard you talking about your preparations or lack of them, having a nice, relaxed time over winter?  
 ALVARO QUIROS: Yeah, in my case, it's even more important, because you know, the last four or five months of the year, they were not great. I played okay, only. And to keep in contention is not enough. So probably need to disconnect more than the rest.   
  
  Q. Totally a tangent, where is the hat? It's beautiful sunshine and you like wearing it in this part of the world and you have your Callaway visor.  
 ALVARO QUIROS: It's always difficult to bring the hats. Probably I'm going to wear them in Dubai. It depends. I will is see.   
  
  Q. Everybody knew it from Doha last year, winning, it's your trademark.   
 ALVARO QUIROS: Yeah, I agree with you, but it was an experiment and the people was asking to wear it a little bit more. But in my case it was just to wear here. The first tournaments of the year, we are playing in more or less good weather conditions, so it's not worth it.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT