WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 6, 2009
Alvaro Quiros
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   SCOTT CROCKETT: All right, Alvaro, thank you very much for coming in and joining us, and congratulations on a good second day. Just give us your thoughts on today and your place in the tournament.   
 ALVARO QUIROS: Well, if I have to be honest, I'm hitting the ball okay. Nothing great, but nothing bad either. I've been very lucky today because the shots that I miss always were playable, and I made a good recovery.   
 So, simple as that. My putting is good, too. So probably this is the key of the score today.   
 SCOTT CROCKETT: You're in a good position in the tournament. There are some big names up there around you. It must be exciting to see your name up there alongside them.   
 ALVARO QUIROS: Well, if I have to be honest, I don't see my name for a long time on the leaderboard. All were Americans. It was strange. (Laughing) No, of course, it's very exciting for me. All of the players up there on the leaderboard right now are great players, of course. Well, we will see what happens.   
 SCOTT CROCKETT: The highlight of your round, Alvaro, is probably the eagle at the second. What happened there?   
 ALVARO QUIROS: Well, I hit a great driver from the tee, and the moment on the second it was blowing into. And the second shot, I pushed it a little with a 5-wood. It was a long putt, pin-high, a putt about 20 metres almost. It was a lucky putt and a lucky eagle. That was good.   
  
  Q. Could you go through your playing of the 8th, please?  
 ALVARO QUIROS: I hit a good driver, a little bit more draw, and then I had like 224 metres to the pin and I hit a good 4-iron just a little bit too much straight. I mean, I was waiting to see the ball cut, and at the end, pitched pin-high and released into the bunker. Then a good chip and a good putt.   
  
  Q. As you can see, the leaderboard is almost like an All-American leaderboard, except you are the only European on the leaderboard. How do you feel about that? Are you the only European to play well today, or Americans are just too strong?  
 ALVARO QUIROS: No, no, I think it's not a question of strength. It's just a question of luck or whatever you want to call. Most of the time, I think there were a lot of Europeans on the top of the leaderboard, but I don't know why I'm the only European on the leaderboard. It's just luck or bad luck for the Europeans.  
 I think we are playing well. I don't know the scores of today really, but I think we are playing in a very good position, most of the Europeans.   
  
  Q. The lead is 10-under after two days. What do you think it's going to take to win the tournament after four rounds?  
 ALVARO QUIROS: I think it's going to depends a lot on the greens condition and also the weather. If we are still having this weather -- I mean, normally I am very bad on the predictions. I don't know, I could say 16, 17, 18. I don't know, formally on the weekend, the people don't shoot that score. So it's going to depend a lot on the weather.   
 SCOTT CROCKETT: Alvaro, thank you very much. Good luck tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT