THE EUROPEAN OPEN
May 30, 2009
Alvaro Quiros
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Most people would be happy with 69 but you're not; why?   
 ALVARO QUIROS: Well, because I think today played very easy. Front nine missed two or three putts for birdie, eagle chance on 3, too. And on the second nine, I make silly bogey on 16 with a big driver. I hit a 7-iron and about seven metres to the flag, I make chip and two putts.   
 On 15, I hit driver, 3-wood, just front of the green, two metres outside. I decide to putt in and it was a bad decision again. So I make five again, instead to make four.   
 13, the short par 4, I hit 5-wood, thinking that I should go left, and instead to be sure that I go left, water, bogey, again.   
 I'm on 12, with a perfect shot from the tee, but bad lie on the ball and I miss a one-and-a-half-metre putt for birdie again.   
 So it looked like I waste a lot of shots.  
  
  Q. We spoke after day one and you said you were not particularly happy with your swing. How are you feeling about it now?  
 ALVARO QUIROS: Well, now it's completely different.   
 Yesterday I play better, and today I hit the ball very good, stroked the ball well, too. I know it's difficult to hole putts, but when you are at seven metres to the flag, you cannot make bogey, and that's what happened today.   
 So this is why probably I am a little bit unhappy or sad, but you know, anyway, everybody has to pay the toll on the last three holes and I paid it.  
  
  Q. End of the day you are still in a very good position; how will you attack it tomorrow?  
 ALVARO QUIROS: I hope tomorrow we have the same wind of today, because I think it's the only chance that I could have if I play well. So no, nothing, just working the same way with the swing and I'm still holing putts.   
  
  Q. Thank you to Mr. John Jacobs, who gave you a tip last week at Wentworth.   
 ALVARO QUIROS: Yeah, it was the same -- the tip that he gave me was the same thing that my coach and me were working for a long time, so it went new. This is why probably I took it easy.   
  
  Q. You're still in a good position, because that is a very tough closing stretch, isn't it.   
 ALVARO QUIROS: Yeah, but I think the leader is 8-under right now, and he had to play 15, it's a little bit difficult. You know, the feeling is I know that my score is good, but could be even better. So when you have this feeling, you can always feel a bit disappointed.  
  
  Q. Some of the most exciting talents in European golf, yourself, Rory McIlroy, Chris Wood who just turned pro; an exciting day for the fans tomorrow?  
 ALVARO QUIROS: Well, Rory is at top of the leaderboard and it's nothing new. In my case I'm learning to be over there, too, and about Chris Wood, he's new, I don't know him, so I don't know how he can react. I saw him have some good tournaments.   
 Yeah, it could be a good final round.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT