COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
January 24, 2009
Alvaro Quiros
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RODDY WILLIAMS: Thank you very much for coming in and that was a terrific round out there today. Being in the lead going into the final day, you must be very happy.
 ALVARO QUIROS: Well, yes, I'm very happy. I'm still working like last week and it looks like the scores are coming. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS: You were saying outside that it's your lucky day, as well. 
 ALVARO QUIROS: Well, it's been my week, lucky. Yesterday I was trying to lay up on the 18th hole and I pulled the ball. It bounced from the rocks into the fairway and I made four, so a lucky shot. 
 And today, it was the same story on the ninth hole. I pulled my driver again and it was in a tree with a stick, so I can get relief. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS: You won a few months ago in Portugal. How confident are you going into the final round tomorrow with another win under your belt? 
 ALVARO QUIROS: Well, I don't remember the last time I won. If you don't tell me, I can't remember the last time I won. 
 But I hope it's going to be a new day like the others, and with a little bit of luck, I will be fighting for the trophy. But this is golf and you have to wait until it's your week. 

 Q. You've already moved to another level and could get into the top 64 - are you ready to challenge the top players in the world now? 
 ALVARO QUIROS: Well, it's a difficult question. I think that you can see or you feel that you're ready to be in the Top-50 in the world when you make a score. Otherwise it's very difficult to believe it. If you're a Top-50 player in the world, everything changes.
 Last year I was hitting the ball very well but the scores never arrived, except the last four months of the year, and that week was the same story. I was hitting the ball well, putting well, too, but the scores never arrive. 
 Yesterday, I made silly things on the golf course, but it was good and today was just a great day of putting. I missed like two or three short putts, but I made two or three other ones, very long. 
 So the only thing that I can say is, yes, I am still working on it. 

 Q. The putting today shows you are not just a big hitter?
 ALVARO QUIROS: Well, I was trying to tell the people these kind of things. I'm not just a long hitter, and when I play badly, it's not just because my driver is not working. It's because I'm not hitting the ball well or hitting the putts well. So it's just a combination of everything. 

 Q. What did you think when you saw your ball on the ninth?
 ALVARO QUIROS: I hit a provisional I have to be honest, just to get out the feelings of the last swing. I never thought I could lose the ball over there, no, you have two or three bushes, but the public was over there. So when I arrive over there, I see that it was on the tree and I said, I can't believe, what bad luck. 
 But at the same time, I saw like a wood stick and thought it might be free relief; it's possible and it's a little bit strange, you know what I mean, because it's a big tree. But anyway, it's like this. 

 Q. Was the ball in the tree or underneath it?
 ALVARO QUIROS: In the tree. That's why we called a referee. We really were discussing the nearest point of relief, because it's been very difficult to get the nearest point too and I hit the good side of the tree, the closer one. I was very lucky. You have to be -- sometimes, the luck will be with you and sometimes against you. 

 Q. Do you think luck is needed to win a tournament?
 ALVARO QUIROS: It is very difficult and we could have a discussion and never finished -- when the ball lips in and lips out, in my opinion, it's luck. A five-metre putt, a seven-metre putt, nobody can control a half a centimeter. So in my opinion, in both days, the ball goes in, two or three times in a row, is luck. The grass is not a completely perfect surface, so sometimes we cannot control these things. 

 Q. What do you think about the course layout and the design? What is the challenge in it? How does it suit your game? 
 ALVARO QUIROS: In general the golf course is a good design and is in very good condition. I think the most important thing to keep the golf course safe is the wind. But this golf course can be a really, really tough test if you have wind. 
 If you have better conditions, it starts to be a little bit more difficult but it's a good golf course. 

 Q. And the City of Doha? 
 ALVARO QUIROS: The thing is, I don't know, I have to be honest. 

 Q. If you win will you stay on and spend the money here?
 ALVARO QUIROS: I think so. 

 Q. How long have you been a fan of James Bond and what made it so?
 ALVARO QUIROS: Well, I like a lot these kind of films, especially James Bond films. This year I received a present from my parents and my girlfriend, and it was the package of Pierce Brosnan in the James Bond series. My birthday was last Tuesday day, and so my next gift is going to be the Sean Connery package and I hope to get the Roger Moore, too. 

 Q. Have you seen one today--
 ALVARO QUIROS: Yes, I have. The World is Not Enough


 ALVARO QUIROS: I have to be honest, I like the women, too. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS: Thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT