PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 19, 2008
Alvaro Quiros
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RODDY WILLIAMS: Congratulations, the Portugal Masters Champion, you must be feel very happy right now. 
 ALVARO QUIROS: Well, you can imagine how happy I am right now. It's been a really tough year for me. This is like a little help. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS: A lot of talk at the moment about Seve and people offering him best wishes, and you were just talking about him and how he maybe helped you out on the golf course thinking of him today. 
 ALVARO QUIROS: Well, you know, Seve was and still is a personal inspiration for all of the Spaniards, particular when things don't go very straight. Today was a tough day for me with the long game. But with the short game, I kind of stopped and remembered him, you know, when he made chip and putts and wonderful recoveries. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS: And obviously we wish him the best. 
 It was probably the 17th when you made birdie there, that must have been a turning point for you today. 
 ALVARO QUIROS: Well, the 17th hole, I don't know why, in the four days, I had reached the green in two where I hit on two, and the other days, I was over or left, but I managed a very good chip and recovery and today was one of these same ones. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS: And nice birdie at the end as, well. You must have been very pleased to see that one go in. 
 ALVARO QUIROS: Yes. 

 Q. Was your caddie was a big help to you?
 ALVARO QUIROS: David is a very good caddie. It's a shame because I'm going to work only with him this week and next week, because he has to come back with another player, much better than me player, but he was very good and funny. 

 Q. Inaudible?
 ALVARO QUIROS: I was hitting the ball from the tee to the green perfect in the first three rounds, and today -- the game was the same and the putting was better, so I thought it could be a good round. But from the beginning, I started to miss some drivers. But I had the good luck to recover with the putter. 
 And still -- my putts, it could be 24 putts, 23, I have no idea, but amazing. 

 Q. Is it especially meaningful for you to win for the Spanish because of Seve Ballesteros?
 ALVARO QUIROS: Seve was playing in a different way of the rest of the world. He was something special. He was playing more with the heart than the real game, and today was one of those days. We think about you have two ways to do the birdies: The easy way, driver, green, one putt; and the other one is drive, I don't know where, chip, I don't know where, and a good putt, and this is the way that I played today. 

 Q. Like Seve? 
 ALVARO QUIROS: A little bit. Seve was playing always very well, but sometimes he has rounds like this. 

 Q. Do you know him?
 ALVARO QUIROS: I have met him just once but he is an important person for golf and as a person, and I hope he recovers quickly from his problems. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS: You have two important weeks coming up next in Spain, CASTELLÓ MASTERS, and will you be staying at home at Valderrama for the Volvo Masters? 
 ALVARO QUIROS: Well, Castellón next week is going to be a great week, but am very tired week after this one, and to qualify for the Volvo, and I'm playing well, so you never know what's going to happen. 
 I'm not in the same state as Robert Karlsson, that he wants to win three in a row. One for me is enough, but of course, the Volvo, I would like to make a good -- I live five minutes from Valderrama. Sometimes I practise over there, and it's a very special situation for me. I know the people are going to support me, and I like it. It makes me happy. 

 Q. Where do you live? 
 ALVARO QUIROS: I live in a town called Guadiaro, is the name. I am from the province of Cádiz but my family is from a town called San Enrique de Guadiaro, where Valderrama is. Valderrama is just two weeks after qualifying for The European Tour, I was over there waiting for somebody who don't want to play to get in, like a reserve.

 Q. Inaudible?
 ALVARO QUIROS: Well, not just the golf course, I would like to recommend the area. Vilamoura is a nice place and we have the great luck to have last year, wonderful weather and this year, too. 
 So it's a very, very good place to be at this time of the year, because probably middle and north of Spain, it's raining and the rest of Europe, rain is coming down, too. So it's a very good place. The food is okay and a very quiet place, I like it. 

 Q. And the golf course? 
 ALVARO QUIROS: The golf course is very good. This week, it was very tough. The rough was very thicker. The greens were practically perfect. Just grow up a little more the greens than last year but still very good greens. It's great, you have very many good holes, long ones and short ones, and you have to keep on the correct side always. It's a good golf course. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS: Congratulations and well done. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT