PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 17, 2008
Alvaro Quiros
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You started off the day well with a birdie?
 ALVARO QUIROS: Yes, like yesterday, it wasn't too difficult, the greens are really good and the fairways are very good.

 Q. You complained about your putting yesterday and you said it wasn't on form; what was it like today?
 ALVARO QUIROS: It was even worse. I played really close yesterday from the tee to the green, but today very disappointed. Now it's in my mind, this is the whole thing now, but I have to think positive and I hope to change my luck with the putting the next two days.

 Q. So what will you do between now and tomorrow, are you working with anyone in particular? 
 ALVARO QUIROS: Well, nothing particular. This is the problem, I have nothing to work. I have so many things to improve with my putter I think, because, well, I'm driving the ball correctly but not holing. I don't know if it's bad read off the line or I don't know what happened.

 Q. What about the strengths of your game today, a lot of people spoke about the importance of hitting the fairways because the rough is quite severe; did you hit it all the fairways today?
 ALVARO QUIROS: Today I hit less fairways than yesterday but to me, it's a good number, still being a good number today. 
 I had luck with two or the three balls that I lost off the fairway because they always were a good lie so I could hit it with a short club, 58-degree wedges, but with a lot of luck.

 Q. And what do you make of the conditions out there?
 ALVARO QUIROS: The conditions of the day, the weather, was perfect. Yesterday was sunny and today was cloudy and little breeze sometimes getting up, getting down, but it wasn't a great problem.

 Q. And you haven't settled on one particular caddie, have you? 
 ALVARO QUIROS: Yeah, my caddie is going to be for this week and next one, nothing else. After this I have to look for a new one or we'll see what happens. 

 Q. You're one off the pace, are you feeling confident heading into the weekend? 
 ALVARO QUIROS: You know, the truth is, I'm confident with my long game and within my putting, too, so it's not going to be a problem for the weekend. I still have a chance and I'm not the No. 1 player on the weekend, I have to recognise, but I'm hitting the ball well. 

 Q. Same question as yesterday, how good was that?
 ALVARO QUIROS: I can answer you the same. I hit the ball well. The truth is I hit it a little bit worse than yesterday. But I have the luck when I miss a fairway, I have a good lie. I missed two or three fairways, and I was working with the 58- and 52-degrees, so it's always a good help, the length sometimes. 
 And the putting, I have to say poor again, 3-putts at the 14th. Almost three putts on the 18th, but I'm okay, I'm confident. 

 Q. If the putting isn't good, but yet you're still there at 10-under par, that has to be a good step in the right direction at least because you know that you can improve?
 ALVARO QUIROS: I agree with you, but the problem is that thing with the putter is coming from a long time ago. You know, I was hitting the ball very similar, not like this week, but very similar this week the rest of the year and the putting has been the same. 
 This is the tough thing that is happening this year. It's been very tough for this reason. It's very difficult to think positive when you know that each time you are going to miss a green or a fairway, it's going to be tough to make a chip and putt. 
 So what can I say, if I'm still hitting the ball like this, it's not going to be a great problem, the putter. This is what I need but not always can be hitting the ball with the long game at this level. I think in four days of tournament play, everybody has one day more or less and has to save with a putt and with a chip. I hope the bad day for me could be today. 

 Q. If that's a bad day --
 ALVARO QUIROS: Well, I will speak with you on Sunday and I will know. If I'm in a good position, sure, but you never know, you need luck to win. But Top-5 is a good position, top three is much better of course but very good position for me. 

 Q. After the fourth place in Madrid, you do feel competitive, do you feel that you can contend for four days? 
 ALVARO QUIROS: I hope so. I have to say the tournament is completely different, and the golf course is completely different, too. The players that play this week, it looks like we are the same but they are coming more, the top players. I hope so, if I finish fourth, fifth, it's going to be a good thing. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT