PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 16, 2008
Alvaro Quiros
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 6-under par, good golf out there.   
 ALVARO QUIROS: Yeah, I was hitting the ball very well today from the tee to the green. It's the same with the putting.  
  
  Q. Out in 30 shots, and you chipped in on the 18th, which was your ninth.   
 ALVARO QUIROS: Yeah it was a good shot. The second one was a good shot. Just two metres left and it's two metres at the flag but a good lag and a lot of luck and chip-in.   
 I had a lot of opportunities for birdie today but I didn't hole a lot of them. I played very well and this is why I finished at 6-under but I have to improve.   
  
  Q. Are you working on anything at the moment?  
 ALVARO QUIROS: Yeah, last week was the same story, I played really well from the tee to the green but I didn't hole any putts.   
  
  Q. Tied fourth last week in Madrid, surely that gave you a boost?   
 ALVARO QUIROS: Yeah, Top-5, Top-10, doesn't matter if you're putting well or putting bad, it means that I have something to improve.  
  
  Q. And you managed to save par on the 18th hole?  
 ALVARO QUIROS: Yeah, I was thinking it was going to be not much -- the ball goes so far and very clear from the rough, and it was in difficult shape and holed a one-metre putt. It was a good four.  
  
  Q. What will you be doing this afternoon in preparation for tomorrow?   
 ALVARO QUIROS: Practising.   
  
  Q. Tell us about that wonderful start.   
 ALVARO QUIROS: Well, very calm day. It was a little breeze, sunshine and good golf course, so it was really a good beginning. I was hitting the ball very well from the tee to the green, and the putting poor, no putts, but poor, for the games that I hit.  
  
  Q. You've been playing well in recent weeks, not only last week in Madrid.   
 ALVARO QUIROS: I was playing well since one month ago at The Belfry, but the putting or the lag or whatever you want to call doesn't come.   
 Suddenly Madrid, I shoot 3-over the first round with not a great chance but 3-over, and the second and third and fourth, no bogeys, which is really, really strange for me.  
  
  Q. How long did it take to recover from your wrist injury and to feel totally back to strength again?   
 ALVARO QUIROS: Physically, I don't know, at the beginning of this year, it was perfect. I recovered 100 per cent of the mobility in the hand, probably is not easiest to move, you know what I mean. I need to release a little bit more, but I recovered 100 per cent. Mentally is the main thing that's the problem. It's been really tough to recover the positive way and the correct way to see the shots.   
 But anyway, you know, it's the past and I have to think about what I have now and I'm hitting the ball well and I don't feel any pain.  
  
  Q. The fact that you damaged your wrist when you were practising on the range, is that mean that you're a little more careful about preparations?   
 ALVARO QUIROS: I don't think so. Just it was an injury. Just have to be more careful, only way is to stay home and not go out.  
  
  Q. How far are you hitting the ball these days?  
 ALVARO QUIROS: I'm hitting it straight and I'm hitting it well and that's why I'm taking more confidence in my long game. Nothing's changed, no technique, just come, the confidence and I'm hitting the ball well.  
  
  Q. Does it feel similar to when you were winning in South Africa?   
 ALVARO QUIROS: Yeah, and The Belfry, that's it. The feel that I have now is very similar before the injury, before the surgery.   
 To win is a different thing, you have to have luck and good play. But the first thing is to play well and see how the scores are coming.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT