PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 19, 2007
Alvaro Quiros
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Good to come back to the form that you have after coming back from an injury.  Tell us about your rehabilitation.   
 ALVARO QUIROS:  Last week I was playing very, very similar than these two days, so that's good news but nothing else.   
  
  Q.  Speak a bit about your injury.  How damaging has that been for you?   
 ALVARO QUIROS:  It's quite difficult just playing, but one ligament turned -- it was twisted.  So they have to open to put the same position in another place, nothing else.   
  
  Q.  What's been the hardest part of getting back into the top-class golf, because we know you're a big hitter, as well.   
 ALVARO QUIROS:  Well, the hardest part to come back is to keep on the golf course, I was six months out of the golf and five and a half, completely out, two weeks practising.   
 But, you know, keep going.  And the concentration, it's difficult to keep.   
  
  Q.  So you only have very few weeks to come back to try to make an impact again.  What are your targets when you came back?   
 ALVARO QUIROS:  Just practising.  This year, the only good tournament I would like to play in, it is the HSBC one month after to start to play.   
 So now, this is a gift, a surprise.   
  
  Q.  Are you going to play as much as you can between now and the end of the year?   
 ALVARO QUIROS:  Yes, I'm going to -- well, I'm planning to play this one, Mallorca, HSBC, Hong Kong, and the two tournaments in South Africa.   
  
  Q.  So given that you're just nearly back from injury and you're now right there at the top of that leaderboard, what do you think of your chances this weekend?   
 ALVARO QUIROS:  The truth is that I don't believe in my chances, in my own chances.   
 I know that just in a moment, I can change perfectly my swing because I'm not playing well.  I'm making good things, but with a little bit of luck, with the putter, I'm putting very well, except the 17th hole, I made 3-putts.   
 You know, I'm not very confident.   
  
  Q.  Surely this course must suit you.   
 ALVARO QUIROS:  I like it, it's a long golf course and with the hard greens, they are in difficult positions on either side of the flag.   
  
  Q.  Tell us about the day you knew you had done something serious.   
 ALVARO QUIROS:  It was the practise day, the Pro-Am of Andalucía.   
  
  Q.  Is there one shot that you remember?   
 ALVARO QUIROS:  Yes, I hit it, just one shot and it was against the floor and nothing else, and I feel a crack.  So I feel the pain, but I was thinking, well, it was at that moment.   
  
  Q.  Which club was it?   
 ALVARO QUIROS:  I was hitting the driver on the driving range, it was before the Pro-Am on Tuesday.    
 Well, I go to the golf course and I hit it, one drive more, 4-iron, two putts and a 4-iron again on the second hole and, you know, decide to finish because I was feeling the pain.  The pain was over there.   
  
  Q.  Terrible pain?   
 ALVARO QUIROS:  Yes, it was.  Just when I made any movement with the hand, but terrible.   
  
  Q.  How frustrating was it to take off six months?  It must have been very frustrating not to be able to play.   
 ALVARO QUIROS:  Yeah, especially this year because I start on the Tour winning.  You know, my target was try to qualify for the Volvo.  I know after the injury, I know that I'm not going to play, so it was very frustrating, for sure.   
  
  Q.  Were you told immediately, five months?   
 ALVARO QUIROS:  Well, five months and a half, yeah.   
  
  Q.  Were you hoping it was going to be quicker?   
 ALVARO QUIROS:  Yeah, the doctor says probably six or seven, so it was a good recovery.   
  
  Q.  So you recovered very quickly.   
 ALVARO QUIROS:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  Just a ligament for a broken bone?   
 ALVARO QUIROS:  No, the ligament, it wasn't broke, just twisted.  It was twisted.   
 You know, the doctor tells me that probably I have this ligament in this position --   
  
  Q.  What did you do during the six months?   
 ALVARO QUIROS:  Watching the golf on the sofa.  (Laughter).   
  
  Q.  Could you do anything else?  Could you exercise as all?   
 ALVARO QUIROS:  No.  I was feeling too much pain on the hand to try to try something.  The last one month and a half, I was working in the gym a little bit but nothing else, and be with my girlfriend.   
  
  Q.  Normally when you just sit on the sofa, you get fat.   
 ALVARO QUIROS:  You can believe me, before the injury I was 81 kilos and now I'm 88.  So you can imagine, seven kilos.  Before the year, I was slim, and now I'm quite more normal!  (Laughter).   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT