OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 5, 2016
Alvaro Quiros
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Thoughts after two good days of golf here in Dubai?
ALVARO QUIROS: Well, I have to say I'm pleased to make the cut, which is always positive, and especially in my case, having been inconsistent in the past, and a very important round today.
Q. And you certainly hit some very nice shots in the course of these two days presumably?
ALVARO QUIROS: I have to say that I have a few brilliant moments.  I have a few dark ones, but I don't want to focus on them.  I want to really focus on what is important, and that is that I was able to hit good shots, too.
Q. You have had so many brilliant moments in this part of the world, particularly on this course; does that help when you come into this event?
ALVARO QUIROS: Maybe some moments you can remember some good shots you hit in the past, but most of the time you are focused only in the present and that's the only thing that really matters.  In the end, nobody leaves things to the past.  We survives things to the present, and that's all.
Q. I appreciate everything else is history, but presumably when you step into the course, you know that you've played well, so that should be a cause for confidence?
ALVARO QUIROS: Yeah, there's no doubt, obviously, as you said, the most important thing is the knowledge.  You know more or less, depending on how you see the greens, about the speed, about toughness, the rough, you know the scores, and that's a help.  You know more or less how they are going to be.
So that helps a lot, because even if you are not hitting the ball well, but you are scoring decently, you have a reason to keep fighting and that's probably -- I mean, that's most important thing, I would say.
Q. Where is the balance with you at the moment between positivity and frustration at the way things are going?
ALVARO QUIROS: No, positive, 100 per cent, honestly, I have made the cut.  Last week in Qatar I finished in the end of the leaderboard just making the cut.  The previous week in Abu Dhabi, I missed the cut.  So it's a big improvement.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT