BIG EAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 8, 2021
Megan Duffy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
  UConn - 73, Marquette - 39
 THE MODERATOR:   We're joined by Marquette head coach Megan Duffy.
 COACH DUFFY:   First off, congratulations to Connecticut.  I thought they were absolutely relentless on the defensive end.  We watched it for the first two games of the tournament, just how they turned up their pressure and their intensity.
 And we knew in some ways it was going to happen, but we obviously didn't do a great job handling it.  I would say I was pretty shocked with just how our team came out.  We've been a hard-nosed, tough, relentless team all year.  When you get down that big in the first quarter to UConn, it's uphill, really uphill the rest of the way.
 I thought we had some good moments at times, but obviously kudos to Connecticut for really handling just the defensive side of the ball with ease.
 Q. You talked this year about there being a psychological battle when you play UConn.  Did you think that was the case with that slow start tonight playing UConn in a championship setting?
 COACH DUFFY:   Well, I think we gained some confidence about a week ago when we played them at Storrs.  And I thought we were really good defensively.  We kind of made it an ugly game at times.
 And I thought we moved just from that game into the tournament with a lot of confidence.  And we talked about that.  We watched some film of the things we were successful at.  But part of our growth as a team was, with still some young players, is when you get to the tournament in March it's a whole different level.
 And I think you can talk about it but that third game in three days, they turned it up and we didn't have a lot of answers with it.
 So I guess I'm just surprised that we struggled with just a little bit of the fight in the first quarter.  I felt like everything they were doing was working.
 Q. Tough night for Selena and Lauren.  I think eight points combined.  But can you just talk about Camryn Taylor, a double-double tonight, and these last two games, she's just produced on the court.
 COACH DUFFY:   Lauren and Selena have been tremendous for us all year, great senior leaders.  They've had to take the bulk of the scoring and struggled a little bit tonight.  The shots they made in the first two games, they were a little more rushed.  A few more bigger bodies and athletes around them.
 I thought Camryn Taylor did a great job stepping it up with her will and relentlessness to try to score the basketball and rebound, definitely a bright spot for us.  She had a couple of little cheap fouls, then recovered and got her focus back and gave us some great minutes and production on the offensive side.
 Q. What would you say to the selection committee as they're looking at where to place you guys for the NCAA Tournament?
 COACH DUFFY:   I would say we're a great team that had a really rough night tonight against the No. 1 team in the country.  I love our team.  I love our balance.  I thought we ran a little bit out of gas tonight.  I just love the way we share our ball we're a much better defensive team.
 I love us in the tournament.  And I love any seed they want to give us because we'll be ready.  Looking forward to the challenge.  I think we just have to calm down and get a couple days of rest and get back on that practice floor.  And I'm confident we'll be just fine.
 We've got a great, tough group that didn't show it maybe today.  But we're going to go back to the drawing board and reload.  And biggest thing is stay healthy now as we go back to campus and be COVID-free.  And this is the fun time going into the next bubble.
 I just really appreciate everybody from the Big East and everybody at Mohegan today and the past four, five days, the work that goes into making this championship even happen has been tremendous.
 I've learned a lot.  We felt like we've been taken care of every day and allowed us to have the opportunity to play for a championship, which we are very appreciative of.
 Q. Obviously a tough game today.  And especially on the offensive end, not the best shooting.  But what are you hoping to take from this game into the NCAA Tournament as you weren't able to go to your first tournament with this team last year due to COVID-19?
 COACH DUFFY:   That was crushing last year was so many teams felt that.  But when you lose and get your butt beat in the final you get a chance to reset yourself and reload and look at everything.  And you have a little time now to catch your breath.  And this schedule has been daunting at times.  You're one practice, play every other day.  You're trying to keep them mentally fresh as they're in such a unique world as student-athletes.
 I'm going to a little bit turn the page and be excited about prepping our team and getting back in that gym and just be thankful for the opportunity that we're going to be able to keep playing in March.  And our body of work is what matters the most.  And we'll move on for sure.
 Q. What do you take from this tournament?  What will help you in the NCAA Tournament, the bubbleville of it, of basically you have your hotel room practice games, so to speak, when you get to the NCAAs next week?
 COACH DUFFY:   Just the experience what the Big East and Mohegan did for us.  When we signed up to come to the Mohegan Sun, we thought the atmosphere and the look of what the tournament would be was definitely different.  So we look forward to that next year.
 I think it's just going to prepare us of the daunting day of.  You're going from just your squad and you against the world in a lot of ways and staying in your own bubble.
 I think we'll be prepared when we go down to Texas to just be smart and careful and focus on the task at hand.
 I think this is great from the basketball side, too.  We played three very different styles, and the more opportunities that prepare us to face opponents in the tournament is great.
 And I know the message for me -- we just talked about it in the locker room with our team -- is we have to have a different kind of edge that first tournament game, whoever we play, because your time is limited.  Now it's really one-and-done.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT