SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 6, 2014
Kristy Curry
Shafontaye Myers
Daisha Simmons
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   We'll take an opening comment from coach and each of our student‑athletes. 
COACH CURRY:   I just credit LSU.   I thought that Shanece and Theresa and Jeanne just as seniors really willed their team today, did a great job. 
It was kind of role reversal from Sunday.   They had great balance.   We had trouble scoring and making plays.   Our hats off to those guys. 
I certainly don't want to take it away from the improvement that these kids sitting next to me have done.   We're excited about the future. 
DAISHA SIMMONS:   Like coach said, they had a lot of players step up today.   We just needed to do a better job, making sure we found everybody and guarded everybody. 
SHAFONTAYE MYERS:   Same as they said.   Feeding off each other's energy, we didn't come out ready to play like LSU.   They was more hungry.   The most effort team won today, so... 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions. 

Q.   Coach, talk about the big picture of looking at your team's growth this year. 
COACH CURRY:   I think one thing we've talked about, three key words:   energy never fails.   That's something we've done from day one, is ourself as a staff have that energy.   Our kids have fed off of that. 
We've laid the foundation for a bright future.   Shafontaye Myers will be part of that going down the road.   Daisha will be an impact day in and day out.   Every word she says, every action about her. 
We're excited about what's ahead, about our recruiting class from '14 and '15.   The future is incredibly bright.   As we build it back, we want to do it the right way.   Certainly this team has the right kind of energy. 

Q.   Coach, could you describe tactically the difference between Sunday's game and this game. 
COACH CURRY:   I think we made shots on Sunday and missed shots today.   When you look at statistically, they shot 50% and we shot 35%.   I think that was the difference.   We made shots on Sunday and didn't today. 
Certainly I think taking care of the basketball today, we had trouble with that.   But it was kind of role reversal.   You credit those guys.   They had great balance, four players in double figures.   We had four in double figures on Sunday. 

Q.   I know shots didn't fall, but were they doing something in particular that caused that or just a rough day at the office?
COACH CURRY:   I think when we've had success, we've made the same looks we missed today.   I don't think it was anything defensively.   We just missed shots.   That's part of the game.   You got to make plays. 

Q.   Daisha, I was almost surprised at the end of the game to see that you matched them on the boards when they have a substantial height advantage inside.   Talk about your philosophy to rebound the ball so effectively. 
DAISHA SIMMONS:   Like coach said, energy never fails.   You just got to play with a lot of energy, a lot of heart no matter what size you are, no matter what size the people you're playing against.   You just got to go out there and battle, and that's what I try to do. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT