PILOT PEN TENNIS
August 24, 2006
Mara Santangelo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q.  Seemed like you never were able to get into a rhythm against her.  Just assess how you thought you played today overall. 
 MARA SANTANGELO:  Well, I think I played pretty good.  I'm happy about this match.  Especially at the beginning I had a lot of chance.  We were 2-1 for her.  Could be 3-Love for me. 
 After that, I lose a little bit of confidence on court, but I tried to be aggressive and continue to play my tennis.  I think Justine, she's play very good.  Today she played unbelievable.  That's it. 
 But I'm very happy about this match. 

 Q.  You hit a dropshot late in the second set when you were trying to break her serve.  She tracked it down with a backhand, flipped it. 
 MARA SANTANGELO:  Yeah, unbelievable. 

 Q.  How many players would be able to get to that ball, make that shot? 
 MARA SANTANGELO:  Not a lot.  That was a great point.  Yeah, she is very fast on court. 

 Q.  She's been out for a lot of weeks.  Did it look like the old Justine? 
 MARA SANTANGELO:  I think at the moment she's one of the best player in the world.  Well, today she played unbelievable.  Looks like the No. 1. 

 Q.  You mentioned some of those chances you had early.  She did more to take them away from you than you not converting? 
 MARA SANTANGELO:  Yeah, it was difficult for me.  She played every point very aggressive, so was difficult for me to be aggressive.  I tried to do my best until the end of the match.  I think I did it.  That's why I'm very happy about this match.  It was not easy. 

 Q.  Could you talk about your week, getting an entry into the main draw, taking advantage of that with a win over Myskina.  What do you take out of this week? 
 MARA SANTANGELO:  Confidence, of course.  I played very good all week.  Now I'm very focused about the US Open.  I have a tough first round against Raymond.  We see what's happen.  But at the moment I'm feeling good.  I hope to continue this moment. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT