LOS ANGELES FOOTBALL CLUB MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 8, 2020
Christian Torres
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  Los Angeles Football Club 1, Portland Timbers 1
 Q. Start with your thoughts on your club's performance tonight and then just talk about preparations for the playoffs over these next couple weeks what do you guys need to do?
 CHRISTIAN TORRES:   Very grateful that Bob and the coaching staff have the trust in me to give me another start for the squad.
 For our performance tonight, I felt we just need to pick it up in the second half.  We need to put in that second goal and we're good.
 But loading up for the playoffs, we are coming with a better mentality, right mentality, and we are in it to win it.
 Q. You got to start with Carlos and Diego up top, kind of the first-choice strikers.  What was it like to play alongside them and start to build some chemistry with the top-line guys?
 CHRISTIAN TORRES:   Playing with Carlos and Diego, both great footballers.  I'm grateful to be starting up top with them, and I look forward to continuing our chemistry with each other.
 Like I said, everyone is together, looking forward to get better together.  So that's our main focus.
 Q. What do you think led for you to get the start over Brian Rodríguez tonight?
 CHRISTIAN TORRES:   I can't exactly say.  I just feel that I've been working my hardest in training, and I feel I'm doing what I can do in the sessions and in and out of training, that's given me a chance to be able to start tonight.
 Q. It's your second game in the starting lineup under Bob Bradley and LAFC, how do you see the game today, and how do you prepare for the match against the Seattle Sounders and facing Seattle in the playoffs?
 CHRISTIAN TORRES:   Yeah, after this match, we are going to review, review what we can, see what we can get better at from this match and then put our full focus on Seattle.  We're looking forward to our match against them and we're coming for them.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT