NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 25, 2016
Kevin Tway
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Nice 25, 30-footer for birdie on 18 to move into third place and secure a return trip to the PGA TOUR after some near misses and time on the bubble and stuff how do you describe your emotions?  
KEVIN TWAY: I don't have any words right now to describe it, but it's nice to see that putt go in, for sure.  I finished 27th on the Money List the last couple years, which was hard to take, and I had a near miss in the playoffs last year, so it's been a long road, I've always wanted to be back on the PGA TOUR and to see that putt go in was really special.   
 Q.  How long was that putt?  
KEVIN TWAY: At least 25, 30 feet.   
 Q.  Could you talk about it.  
KEVIN TWAY: It broke a lot.  It probably played three or four feet of break, a little bit uphill and I was just trying to make the best stroke I could and luckily it went in.   
 Q.  When it went in was it almost like winning?  
KEVIN TWAY: It's not like winning, but it is winning in a sense.  I played well today and was proud of myself the way I hung in there.  Kind of hit a couple bad shots coming in, but that putt to go in on the last makes it feel better.   
 Q.  How about the putt at 16.  That was kind if a big putt?  
KEVIN TWAY: Yeah, it was.  I hit some really good putts, 13, 14, 15 that kind of just slid by.  And I hit a terrible tee shot off 15 and to be in the fairway bunker with a wedge is never a good place.  To make about a 10-footer for par after I hit some good putts, it was nice to see it go in.  It was good momentum for sure.   
 Q.  Being on the bubble the few situations had to be frustrating, was there any one particular moment of frustration that comes to mind?  
KEVIN TWAY: Yeah, there's a couple times in Portland last couple years where -- this year I almost just make the cut and kind of put a little too much pressure on myself.  And, yeah, there's some times where I wasn't very happy, but you have to keep plugging.  I know my game's good enough, so I had to just keep trying my best.   
 Q.  Was there ever a time in that frustration where you were thinking to yourself like, man, what am I doing, like how do I keep doing this?  
KEVIN TWAY: Well, there's times.  There's times when you think, when you're in there, how am I going to mess it up, instead of how can I excel.  I kind of get in my own way is usually my problem.   
 Q.  Nice to have your dad here and how special was it to come off, get a hug?  
KEVIN TWAY: Yeah, it was really special.  He comes to this one a lot.  I played this course a bunch since 2006, it's one of my favorites.  But to have him here, help me with course management, I kind of feel it's more comfortable with him in a sense.   
 Q.  You talked about course management, he walked the course with you earlier in the week?  
KEVIN TWAY: He got here the same time I did on Monday and walked the practice rounds, he was with me warming up, on the putting green.  So it's just nice having him there.  He's got a lot of knowledge and I was just trying to get some of that.   
 Q.  Is there anybody from the last couple years from the WEB.COM TOUR that has helped make you a better player to get another crack at the PGA TOUR?  
KEVIN TWAY: Yeah, always your first crack at the PGA TOUR is difficult.  It's all new.  Playing out here, the players are great, you got to learn how to go low, definitely on the WEB.COM TOUR, so that's good.  Just the travel and staying in hotels, long grinds like our eight week stretch we just had, just kind of, I don't know, being nice to yourself and just trying to stay the course.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT