NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 22, 2016
Kevin Tway
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Take us through the round and what it was like out there and how you think you played.
KEVIN TWAY: I got off to kind of a rough start, 2-over through 2.  But after that, I made like eight birdies in the next however many, like 14 or 15 holes, which is nice out here.  I started getting the ball in the fairway a little bit more, which makes it a little bit easier to attack the hole.  The greens are a little bit soft, so if you get it in the fairway you can get at the hole, and I managed to do that pretty well and pretty pleased with the round so far.
Q. How were you able to turn it around there, 2-over after 2?
KEVIN TWAY: I didn't really do anything, I always have trouble starting off the morning rounds, I'm always like a little tired.  But 2-over through 2 kind of woke me up, kind of mad, so just tried to hit the fairway and then I got pretty aggressive with my irons.
Q. What is this course playing like compared to last year.  A lot of players are saying it's softer than what they saw last year.
KEVIN TWAY: It was really soft Tuesday, it was definitely firmer today than it was the last few days.  I think it will keep getting more firm and I think by the weekend it will be pretty similar to last year.  It's a little warmer weather, so that always makes it a little easier.  But I like the way the course is playing.  You still have to drive the ball in the fairway or it's still difficult.  But if you drive it in the fairway, it's a little bit easier, I would say.
Q. Your dad is here this week, it looked like you were working on some stuff the other day.  What were you working on?
KEVIN TWAY: Just simple stuff.  Sometimes I get caught doing, I don't know, almost too much complicated swing thoughts, so just a real simple swing thought of keeping my head still, which has kind of been nice with my irons and I had the ball going a little straighter, which is nice.
Q. Can you go through the birdies and bogeys real quick.
KEVIN TWAY: Bogeys on 10, 11, and a 3-putt on 8.  And bogeys on 1 and 2.  I drove it in the rough, was not in a good spot.  And I guess I had eight birdies.  I don't really remember them all.
Q. Any shots that stand out?
KEVIN TWAY: A good iron shot on 13.  5-iron to like 10 feet behind the hole.  Which, I hadn't been hitting it well on the first three holes, so it was nice to see one go right where I was looking.
Q. What was kind of the moment that turned the round around for you?
KEVIN TWAY: I made a good birdie on 12 and 13 and then I hit a good shot on 14.  Unfortunately, I missed that putt.  But those three holes, hitting some good iron shots and getting the ball in the fairway kind of turned it around.
Q. What's the goals for the next two weeks here?
KEVIN TWAY: Make a lot of birdies and try to shoot low.  I have to play well, so just focus on that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT