U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 20, 2008
Kevin Tway
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   CRAIG SMITH: Kevin, congratulations. First round win, 2-up. You played pretty smart here. And then tell me how you finished. You were 1-up coming up 18. What did you hit into 18 that you had almost a gimmie birdie? 
 KEVIN TWAY: I hit a pitching wedge from the rough about 145 yards and I actually flew it a little farther than I was trying to and it stopped pretty fast and a went close. 
 CRAIG SMITH: And when you looked at your opponent, when you draw Phillip Francis in the first round you got to think that's more of a match for the weekend, not a first round.
 KEVIN TWAY: Yeah, it's a good match. I knew it would be competitive. And I know you have to play good through everybody to get to the finals, so I guess you just take whoever you get.

 Q. You won the Junior, this is the big stage now. You qualified for the U.S. Open earlier this summer, you're making a pretty good name for yourself, you're just not Bob Tway's son any more. 
 KEVIN TWAY: Yeah. Thank you. I appreciate it. I do pretty well in the USGA events, I guess I just practice hard for those. 
 And it helps a lot to have my dad on the bag caddieing for me, because he's been through everything and he can help me out when I get nervous and talk to him about that kind of stuff.
 CRAIG SMITH: One more and that is, what does dad do for you on the bag? I know you like him there, I'm sure he loves to be there, he's probably more proud of doing this for you than playing for himself, which we obviously know because he caddied for you at the U.S. Open.
 KEVIN TWAY: I can talk to him about the shots and what went right and what went wrong. And it's not like, when I get nervous I can talk to him too. And he's always handing me food and stuff to keep me energized and stuff like that. 
 CRAIG SMITH: Questions? 

 Q. How close were you on 18?
 KEVIN TWAY: The putt? 

 Q. That putt that you didn't have to make. 
 KEVIN TWAY: Three feet, I think. 

 Q. About three feet?
 KEVIN TWAY: Yeah. 
 CRAIG SMITH: As long as we're there, Kevin, take the other birdies. You had birdie on 4 and a birdie on 13. 
 KEVIN TWAY: On 4 I hit a wedge from about 70 yards like a foot away from the hole. 
 Then what was the other one? 

 Q. 13. 
 KEVIN TWAY: I drove it -- they moved the tees up, so I drove it up by the green and chipped it up five feet past and made that.
 CRAIG SMITH: Talk about that. They moved up a couple of them, 13 and a couple others. Did you take a shot at any of them? What do you think of the changes that we made on course No. 2 for match play to give you more risk/reward.
 KEVIN TWAY: I like it because I hit the ball pretty long so I can kind of take advantage of those holes and see if I can get some birdies, because there's not too many birdie opportunities on the par-4s and stuff so I think it's good to move it up and try to give us a chance. 

 Q. Your summer. How would you just assess the way your summer has gone? Like Craig said, you qualified for the U.S. Open and here and just how do you think your summer has gone?
 KEVIN TWAY: It's been pretty good. It was real good that I qualified for the U.S. Open. That was a good experience. I didn't play real well in that, but it was still a learning experience. And hopefully I'll be able to play in more of those. 
 The rest of the summer I've been playing all right, not great. But just keep practicing and try to play well here.
 CRAIG SMITH: When you play in a U.S. Open, obviously you missed the cut you're starting to play with the big boys, but when you come away from that and play here, does it give you a little bit more confidence? 
 KEVIN TWAY: Yeah. It definitely gives me more confidence because I've never been that nervous before playing the U.S. Open. Coming here it's like a little easier on me. I'm never as nervous on the course at the U.S. Open, it's a lot harder than any one I ever played. 
 So coming to courses like this that that's still hard, it's just a little easier for me. 
 CRAIG SMITH: What are you doing pretty well this far? They talk about driving it in the fairway. You hear the same things here that you hear at the U.S. Open.
 KEVIN TWAY: I didn't, I only hit two fairways here. I didn't drive it well. But I can get it out of the rough pretty good, I guess. I'm kind of strong, I guess and I can get it on the green every once in awhile. 
 My dad's making me play real smart. My lag putts are pretty good and I hit the ball pretty far so it's pretty good. 
 CRAIG SMITH: How about what you and your father discuss in terms of approach shots? There's a part of the green that you don't even want to touch, right, in terms of your aim. 
 KEVIN TWAY: Yeah. Well the greens are softer this week so you can kind of get back to the pins, but the way it's setup we have like a little circle short of the hole or right of the hole that we're trying to land the ball. And if you don't land it there it rolls off. So you hit shots right to the spot, not always at the pin.
 CRAIG SMITH: Lastly, before you go to lunch here, your team has a pretty good representation here. Talk about that and how you, do you -- certainly you're going to be competitors here this week, but do you get together and cheer on each other? 
 KEVIN TWAY: I think it's great. I'm always looking to see how they're doing and hopefully they're all doing well. It's good to have a lot of good players at this tournament so you have people to talk to about the course and stuff like that. 
 CRAIG SMITH: Now just for the record, who do you have here from your team? 
 KEVIN TWAY: Morgan Hoffman, he's coming next year. Peter Uihlein, Trent Leon, Ricky Fowler and then Coach Bratton who barely missed match play. 
 CRAIG SMITH: You win your match tomorrow morning and Peter wins his you play each other in the afternoon. 
 KEVIN TWAY: Oh, cool.
 CRAIG SMITH: Do you happen to be a roommate to any of those that you just mentioned that are playing here? 
 KEVIN TWAY: No. Last year I was with Ricky Fowler, but I'm rooming with Mark Johnson and he's not here this week. But we're all pretty close and we all go to each other's rooms and stuff like that. We're all pretty good friends.

 Q. Are you missing class this week?
 KEVIN TWAY: Yes. School started on Monday.
 CRAIG SMITH: Tell me what you're missing and how much you're looking forward to missing more school.
 KEVIN TWAY: I guess I have a calculus class, but I'm trying to drop that because I'm not very good at math. But I have like a couple classes on Monday and one on Tuesday. And I'm glad I'm missing those and just trying to stay here as long as possible and miss as much school as I can. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT