SENTRY TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 3, 2019
Kevin Tway
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RACHEL NOBLE: We'll go ahead and get started.  Like to welcome Kevin Tway to the media center at the 2019 Sentry Tournament of Champions.  Currently leading, 7-under, 73 after your first round at the Plantation Course at Kapalua.   
Comments on how you played today.   
KEVIN TWAY: Yeah, I played good.  Not feeling well, but yeah, I hit the ball well, kept the ball in play, made a few putts, controlled my ball in the wind.  It's windy where I'm from in Oklahoma so it's kind of like I was at home.   
RACHEL NOBLE: We'll open it up for some questions, please.   
 Q.  Do you have a cold?  
KEVIN TWAY: Yeah.  I played a few holes in the pro-am yesterday and then hole 5 it kind of felt like I was walking on a water bed the whole hole and so I withdrew from the pro-am, went to the doctor, had like an ear infection and sinus infection.  So got some pills and feel a little bit better today but still a little dizzy.   
 Q.  How much practice did you get in, considering?  
KEVIN TWAY: Oh, I was here Sunday night, so I played Monday and Tuesday a little bit and a few holes on Wednesday.   
 Q.  Given this is your first time here, did the course play like you remember I don't know if you watched it on TV, but did it play similar to what you expected?  
KEVIN TWAY: I had been here once before with dad, but I was like 16, so I remember the holes a little bit.  But, yeah, dad kind of told me little wide fairway so it should suit my game and the winds, I also like that.  So, yeah, it played about like how I saw on TV.   
 Q.  How do you figure you bucked the trend of newcomers don't generally do well straight away here and you've done it sick.  So anything can you put it down to?  
KEVIN TWAY: It's so windy that experience probably helps a little bit, but you just got to control your ball in the wind.  Each shot's difficult so you're just focused on the trajectory and where I need to land it and where I need to miss it.  So just first time, I'm just focusing on that to be honest.   
 Q.  How close did you come to not coming out there this morning given you pulled out yesterday?  
KEVIN TWAY: Oh, I was going to try to play no matter what.  I mean I can deal with a little bit of dizziness for sure.  We're in Hawaii and no cut, so I mean I'm going to try as long as I can.   
 Q.  Do you consider yourself a good wind player prior to this?  
KEVIN TWAY: Yeah, absolutely.  Grew up in Oklahoma, live in Florida now, it's windy every day, so and it's kind of what I'm used to.   
 Q.  Did you surprise yourself a little bit with how you felt and then how you were able to play?  
KEVIN TWAY: Felt bad, but, yeah, when you're making a lot of birdies it makes everything better.  I was just trying to drink a lot of water.  But, yeah I didn't think I was going to play that good, to be honest.   
 Q.  How tall were you when you were 16?  
KEVIN TWAY: When I got my license I was 5'-7", 120.   
 Q.  You're joking.  
KEVIN TWAY: Swear.   
 Q.  That's what Brian Harman is now.  
KEVIN TWAY: Yeah, I was small.  So I didn't hit it like I did back then, no.   
 Q.  What was that week like?  Curious if you, did you get here early, did you get a chance to play the course?  
KEVIN TWAY: Yeah, it's weird, we came a week early and I played with dad the whole week before, but on one hole dad took a huge divot and like a centipede had come up from the ground and he like went to flick it away and it stung him and his finger swelled up to like the size of a golf club grip, so he couldn't play that entire week, so he just watched me play the course.  And then it got better by the time the tournament started and then we went home.  So he was just kind of watching me play for his preparation.   
 Q.  Were you at home -- you went home during the tournament?  
KEVIN TWAY: Yeah, I went home, I had to go back to school when I was 16, so yeah, we were here the week before and then left for the tournament.   
 Q.  How did you celebrate with your dad after the win?  Did you do anything special with him?  
KEVIN TWAY: I had to get on a flight straight to Malaysia, but I came back to Oklahoma and during the Oklahoma State football game and we had dinner, but we talked on the phone right after I won.  He was really excited, he was in tears, mom said, so it was a really proud moment for us.   
RACHEL NOBLE: All right.  Thank you, Kevin.   
KEVIN TWAY: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT