THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 23, 2018
Kevin Tway
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
KEVIN TWAY: I've been playing well coming in, so just try to stay patient.   
 Q.  Describe what was going on today, what was going well for you?  
KEVIN TWAY: I hit quite a few fairways.  You can't really play from the rough.  It's really, really long and wet.  So I've hit the fairway, but the greens are soft and you can give yourself a lot of birdie opportunities.   
 Q.  How good were the scoring conditions this morning just overall?  
KEVIN TWAY: The greens were soft.  It was a little windier than I thought and it was raining when we were warming up, but at least it stopped.  But yeah, the scoring conditions were probably better in the morning than they are now.   
 Q.  What was the key of your good scoring?  
KEVIN TWAY: I think I hit ten fairways.  Hitting fairways out here is definitely important.   
 Q.  In terms of the way your season has flowed, what do you make of the Playoffs?  
KEVIN TWAY: It's quadruple points.  It's nice to be playing well coming in.  I've had a few good tournaments, so just try to keep that going.   
 Q.  How much can having a good stretch here kind of change your season?  
KEVIN TWAY: Yeah, it can change completely.  I remember a few years ago, Morgan Hoffmann came in at 124 and went all the way to THE TOUR Championship.  That's kind of the plan, try to play as good as you can and go as far as you can.   
 Q.  Your team --  
KEVIN TWAY: My caddie?   
 Q.  Yeah, coach?  
KEVIN TWAY: My coach isn't here, but yeah, we talk every day.  My dad is a part of my team.  Talk to him every day, my caddie.  I have a trainer.  Yeah, we all feel like I'm playing well and just try to stay patient and keep playing good.   
 Q.  What's it like with your dad?  Is he more supportive or kit Cal?  
KEVIN TWAY: It's supportive.  He wants the best for sure but he's very critical.  He can tell what's going through my mind just by watching the shot tracker.  We talk every night.  He knows my swing probably better than anyone.  So we talk about it every day.   
 Q.  Do you have trust in yourself when you talk with your dad?  
KEVIN TWAY: Yeah, absolutely.  I always have him right here on my shoulder.  He's almost like a caddie out there.  I'm always like, what would he do here, stuff like that.   
 Q.  How familiar are you with the ins and outs of his careers?  
KEVIN TWAY: Yeah, we talk about it a lot.  What he felt in certain situations, how he went about winning golf tournaments.  I pick his brain a lot.  He played at the highest level for 30 years, so it's a good tool to have.   
 Q.  How would you describe your season?  
KEVIN TWAY: It's getting better.  I had a few good flashes in Texas.  It started off slow for sure, but Playoffs can make up your whole season.   
 Q.  The Pro-Am --  
KEVIN TWAY: I tried not to think about it but yeah.  All the guys in my group were making it well no one -- I did play well --   
 Q.  Did that tie the course record?  
KEVIN TWAY: Yeah, the guy in my group was actually all over me, "You have two more holes to break the course record."   
 Q.  Did you want not want to break it?  
KEVIN TWAY: I didn't care either way.  I was there to support Morgan, one of my best friends.   
 Q.  Is it possible to carry that kind of mentality into a TOUR event?  
KEVIN TWAY: You would like to.  It's harder than it is -- you kind of find yourself out on a Monday like that, going at the pins, trying different shots.  Maybe gain a little bit of confidence, but it's always harder to do it when it really matters.   
 Q.  What do you suppose Bob Tway will say about this round today?  
KEVIN TWAY: He will like that I hit ten fairways.  I remember him watching last week one round, I wasn't hitting fairways, and my mom said he was on the bed cussing, like, "Just hit the fairway, it's not that hard."   
so he'll be proud that I hit a few more fairways than last week.   
 Q.  This is last week?  
KEVIN TWAY: Greensboro, yeah.  You have to be in the fairways there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT