RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 28, 2018
Kevin Tway
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You might have run into some danger at 18, but you ended up recovering.  Walk us through that hole and how you finished.
KEVIN TWAY: Yeah, I was trying to carry the bunker, pushed it a hair, almost went through the fairway in the water.  Yeah, and then from there I just tried to hit it on the green somewhere and two-putt.
Q. How nice is it to finish a round like this knowing you're going to go into the final round and a chance to hold your first trophy?
KEVIN TWAY: Yeah, it was a little struggle at the start, maybe a little nerves.  Wasn't swinging as well.  But kind of stayed patient and had a good finish, so I'm still right there, and I'll give it my best shot tomorrow.
Q. I know everybody is going to ask about your dad, but it would be really cool if you won the same tournament he won in 2003, but your whole family, I know you FaceTimed with your sister last night, how excited are they for you?
KEVIN TWAY: Yeah, they're very excited.  I can probably picture dad sitting there watching on live scoring and on TV, so he'll know about my round, and I'll talk to him about this, and I'll probably talk to Evelyn, so it'll be nice.
Q. Birdie at 15, birdie at 16, great par save at 17, birdie at 18.  You closed strong.
KEVIN TWAY: Yeah, I had a good finish, a little struggling starting out, but I know that the last few holes are a little bit easier, so I tried to stay patient and take advantage of the par-5s.
Q. You play again tomorrow in the second to last group.  Does it matter where you play or who you're playing with?
KEVIN TWAY: Yeah, we were comfortable playing together.  It's probably a more low-key group than playing with Dustin or something.  There's probably a lot of people out there.  Yeah, it'll be nice to be out right before them and try to make a lot of birdies.
Q. You hit it a long way at 18 today.  That was like 398 yards off the tee, almost went in the water.
KEVIN TWAY: Yeah, I'm still going to hit driver tomorrow, just might try and carry the bunker a little bit.  But yeah, I'm glad it stopped short of the water.  I would have been pretty mad.
Q. How excited are you about tomorrow?
KEVIN TWAY: Yeah, I'm playing well.  I'm just going to relish the opportunity.  I've got nothing to lose, so I'm going to try to make as many birdies as I can.
Q. Nice solid finish to get right back tied for the lead.  Talk about how you played today and your position heading into the final round?
KEVIN TWAY: Yeah, I finished well.  I didn't really have it starting out but stayed patient and took advantage of some of the par-5s coming in.
Q. What was working for you?
KEVIN TWAY: I wasn't hitting many fairways today.  You can count them on one hand actually.  But stayed patient.  Short game saved me a little bit at the beginning of the round, and made some nice putts coming in.
Q. How confident are you heading into the final round?
KEVIN TWAY: Yeah, if I can get in the fairway I'll have a lot of wedges, so I can attack from there.  Playing from the rough, it's hard to get the ball on the green.  The greens are starting to firm up a little bit, so I've got to get the ball in the fairway for sure.
Q. Is there any sort of different game plan heading into the final round where you're tied with three other guys?
KEVIN TWAY: Yeah, you've got to make birdies on this course.  Everyone usually goes low, so probably take at least 5-, 6-under, something like that tomorrow, so try to be aggressive the whole day.
Q. What's it like going around the course with Whee Kim?
KEVIN TWAY: I mean, we talk a little bit.  I've played with him a few times.  But yeah, we played fine today.  It was a comfortable pairing for sure.
Q. DJ sort of set the pace today; were you looking at the leaderboard or just focused on your own game?
KEVIN TWAY: Yeah, I looked a little bit.  He started off really hot.  The valley holes are always tough, so that's where you've got to try to make pars, maybe sneak a birdie in.  But if you can kind of get the first and the end of the golf course, the middle is where you kind of try to make pars.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT