RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 27, 2018
Kevin Tway
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Really good two days; 66-65.  You've had a good year, but that's a good two days.  
KEVIN TWAY: Yeah, it's a very good two days.  I hit the ball well.  I'm hitting it long, making a few putts, which is always nice, and just trying to keep it going.   
 Q.  I thought it was a nice bounce-back at 18, even though it was playing downwind, but 17 you didn't have a lot of green to play with and you bogeyed that hole.  
KEVIN TWAY: Yeah, I plugged in the bunker on 17, made bogey, and tried to carry all the bunkers on 18 and not quite, so it was nice to hit a good shot out of that fairway bunker onto the green and get a birdie.   
 Q.  Coming into this week 35th in FedExCup, you were a top 10 machine, especially in Texas.  You've had a heck of a year.  What is the thought process going into the weekend?  
KEVIN TWAY: I'm not quite 35th.  I wish I was.  But yeah, just try to keep playing the same way I did the first two days, trying to hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens.  Kind of cliché, but that's what I'm trying to do.   
 Q.  Has that been the key for you this year?  
KEVIN TWAY: Yeah, exactly.  I hit the ball long, so every time I'm in the fairway, I've usually got a wedge, and it's easy to take advantage from there.   
 Q.  I covered your dad, major champion; do you still confer with him a lot?  Do you still talk to him and get advice?  He won the Canadian Open in Hamilton.  Do you talk to him about things still?  
KEVIN TWAY: Yeah, absolutely.  I talk to dad every day, no matter if I'm home, here.  We talk about every round.  He can probably tell you what kind of shots I'm hitting just by like watching on TV.  He knows what the swing looks like.  He's been there throughout, so he's a big key for me.   
 Q.  So he's watching whatever, PGA TOUR Live, so when you call him, he knows exactly what you hit on what hole?  
KEVIN TWAY: Exactly.  He knows where the pin is.  He knows where I'll probably tend to miss it just because he knows me so well.  He's a good key to have.   
 Q.  How valuable is that?  Every guy would like to have somebody like your dad, right?  
KEVIN TWAY: Yeah, absolutely.  Sometimes good, sometimes bad.   
 Q.  Have you talked to him yet?  
KEVIN TWAY: Not today.   
 Q.  Great round today, eight birdies, only one blemish on 17.  What was working for you today?  
KEVIN TWAY: I drove it pretty well.  I think I hit a bunch of fairways.  I was hitting it pretty long, so I had a lot of wedges, and made a couple putts, so yeah, everything was going pretty well.   
 Q.  You're probably going to start getting tired of hearing questions of your dad, but how cool would it be to match what he did at Hamilton?  
KEVIN TWAY: Yeah, he did it in '03, actually, so that was 15 years ago.  He's a little older than that.  But yeah, it would be great to match with that.  Yeah, I talk to dad every day, and he's given me insight on this course.  Although he won there, but he's played here many times.   
 Q.  You weren't around at that time; would you be in school then?  
KEVIN TWAY: I was 15, so I was probably at school playing some high school tournament or something.   
 Q.  Do you know anything about that course?  
KEVIN TWAY: No, never been there.  It's in Ontario?   
 Q.  Yeah, just down the road.  
KEVIN TWAY: That's about all I know.   
 Q.  Playing with Keegan today, seeing the finish he had, right up your tail, playing with him again tomorrow --  
KEVIN TWAY: Yeah, that was a good finish.  Everyone in our group was going pretty well, so it was kind of nice to feed off each other.  Everyone would like to have a finish like that.  I think he had three eagles today I'm pretty sure.  He had one on 2, as well, so that's pretty good.   
 Q.  What's the game plan going into the weekend?  
KEVIN TWAY: Yeah, hit it long and straight and kind of make a lot of putts.   
 Q.  Same and every day?  
KEVIN TWAY: Yep, same and every day.   
 Q.  How would you summarize your season so far?  
KEVIN TWAY: It's been kind of hot and cold.  I had a couple good weeks in Texas.  I usually play pretty good when it's windy, so hopefully it keeps --   
 Q.  Keeps blowing this weekend?  
KEVIN TWAY: Yeah.  Made a lot of cuts, but average I'd say.   
 Q.  How important maybe is a week -- these last two days, how important is that for your confidence and momentum moving forward?  
KEVIN TWAY: Yeah, it's nice.  It's always nice to make a bunch of birdies.  Being near the top is what you practice for, so I'll just keep trying to do the same thing the next two days.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT