ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 30, 2017
Kelly Kraft
Kevin Tway
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Like thieves in the night, you've charged home at 11-under par, still third place.  Talk about the finish.  
KEVIN TWAY: Yeah, good finish.  With the eagle on the last that Kelly made, that got us pretty pumped up.  That's probably the most fun I've ever had in a golf tournament for sure, playing with one of my best friends, and I hope they keep this tournament around.  It was really fun.   
 Q.  Kelly, talk about your finish, the birdie on 16, important, and then to hit two big-boy shots and make the putt on 18, what buzz was that?  
KELLY KRAFT: Yeah, we both hit it in there good on 16 and kind of saw the line from Kevin and ended up getting that one in, which was big for us, and then 18 we both hit good drives.  I knew he was going to be able to reach, so I knew I had to hit a good drive to be able to get there.  Honestly, I was just trying to --   
KEVIN TWAY: Made me nervous.   
KELLY KRAFT: I was hitting it at the bunker, and it kind of came off hot and high and a little right, and I knew when I hit it that it had enough to carry.  I killed it.  Glad to make that putt on the last.   
 Q.  Kevin, you just mentioned this is the most fun you've ever had on a golf course.  Talk about what this finish will do for your career.  
KEVIN TWAY: Yeah, it's good.  I think we're in third now.  It's always nice to have a partner.  It makes you feel a little more comfortable, and he's a good partner to have.   
 Q.  Kelly, you've obviously done some pretty impressive things in your young career, had a big run at Pebble Beach.  Now to play in this team event doing what you're doing, do you feel like you're taking the next step in your career?  
KELLY KRAFT: Yeah, for sure, and honestly this week was more fun than Pebble, having Kevin with me, and kind of having someone to celebrate with you.  It's not just you and your caddie out there, it's you and another partner.  It was a lot of fun, and just looking forward to the rest of the year, and maybe next year hopefully we can win this thing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT