THORNBERRY CREEK LPGA CLASSIC
July 6, 2017
Min-G Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great playing.  
MIN-G KIM: Thank you.   
 Q.  Tell me about the key to your round today.  
MIN-G KIM: I stopped missing six-footers.  That's it.  My shots were the same.  Everything was good.  I think I really kept a level head and focused on the short putts.  I missed one, but everything else was good.  That was the key.  That was really good.   
 Q.  You've been working on that a lot recently?  
MIN-G KIM: I've been working on it for the last three years.   
 Q.  Just something about the short putts that --  
MIN-G KIM: Yes.  Once you miss one, it really gets to your head.  But once you make one, you're like, oh, this is easy, and start making more.   
 Q.  What do you like about this golf course?  
MIN-G KIM: This golf course, it feels like it was made for me because my shots, my drives especially, I'm a fader, and there's a lot of holes where that's really good, and the yardages are always my favorite yardages, so I think that's what really helped.   
 Q.  What yardages?  What's your favorite ideal spot to be?  
MIN-G KIM: Well, it wasn't really my ideal shot, it was more like if I hit a driver on the par-5s, some girls would have to hit a 3-wood, someone who would hit longer than me couldn't really hit a drive, but I could.  It was the ideal yardage to get to the second shot, to make it on the green.   
 Q.  In your rookie season what have you learned this year?  
MIN-G KIM: What have I learned?   
 Q.  Yeah, how has it been adjusting to playing on Tour?  
MIN-G KIM: Definitely at the start of the year, like wait a minute, there's cameras everywhere, people are screaming your name and everything, and I was kind of scared of that at first because it was overwhelming.  But as I got through it, I started enjoying it more, and I was like, yes, this is what I wanted.  This is what I wanted to do as a young girl, and that's what really helped me, I think, enjoying the crowd.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT