FEDEX BCS NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP: OKLAHOMA v FLORIDA
January 5, 2009
Urban Meyer
Louis Murphy
Brandon Spikes
Tim Tebow
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How is this going to be different than the last time you played in the title game?
 TIM TEBOW: Well, I think my responsibility and my role is a little bit different, and so my preparation has been different in the time leading up to the game. So as far as that, it will be different. But the atmosphere, the excitement, the media hype, that's all pretty much the same.

 Q. I know people talk about how fast the SEC is. What is it about the pride factor in the SEC?
 TIM TEBOW: I don't know, I think it's just the guys you go against every week and representing for your conference and representing for your schedule and how tough it can be all year long, I think there's just pride in that.

 Q. You got to meet Sam at the Heisman in New York. You spent some time together. What did you learn about him?
 TIM TEBOW: I think he's a good guy. I think he's a good leader for their team. I think he runs the offense really well and does a good job for them.

 Q. Do you think you're the fourth best quarterback in the Big 12?
 TIM TEBOW: Who knows? Maybe. That might have been a compliment, we'll see.

 Q. Do you take umbrage with those comments? Were you insulted at all?
 TIM TEBOW: We don't really need to talk about that. We need to talk about our team.

 Q. Did you tell the CBS guys that you would like to go against Big 12 defenses?
 TIM TEBOW: I didn't say it like that. I dream of playing teams like Texas, Oklahoma, but also the Penn States, USC. So when I was talking about it, I was talking about it in a way like that, not like we're superior to them. That wasn't what I meant.

 Q. As a competitor, is this stuff okay with you, though? Do you mind the back-and-forth?
 TIM TEBOW: You can say whatever you want, that's fine. We still get to go play.

 Q. Does it provide you some motivation?
 TIM TEBOW: I like it. It's fun. It makes it more competitive, and I'll enjoy it.

 Q. How did you hear about it?
 TIM TEBOW: I actually think one of our assistants walked up to me and showed me a text in our quarterback meeting yesterday.

 Q. Is any of the motivation is the fact that you didn't get the Heisman, Sam got it?
 TIM TEBOW: I have enough to be motivated about. I think number one is holding that crystal ball up.

 Q. Do you have any superstitions? Sam has quite a few.
 TIM TEBOW: I don't think they're superstitions. I call them more routines that I like to get into before a game, pre games, the night before, the things that I do, just because I like doing the same thing over and over again.

 Q. What are some of those?
 TIM TEBOW: Well, you know, just in our pregame walk-through I always walk through everything we do, and then I'll sit down, Coach Meyer will talk just about regular stuff and go to sleep and wake up the next day and kind of do everything the exact same, eat the exact same thing, and right before the game I always do my run right before and stuff like that.

 Q. Give us a couple specifics. Sam has socks that his toes are coming through and he doesn't care, he still wears them.
 TIM TEBOW: I'm not that bad. I always have my milk the night before I go to sleep before a game. I have to do a run right before a game to be totally loose, just things like that.

 Q. We've heard about all the criticisms of the Big 12 defense, but what do you see on film? What do you see in comparison to some of the SEC defenses?
 TIM TEBOW: You know, I think they're a really good defense. I think Oklahoma has got a lot of good players, they're coached really well. I think this year when they needed to step up and make plays, they have, they've made some defensive stands and they've caused a lot of transfers.
 I think some of the defenses we've played this year were also really good and they can compete and play really well, but I think Oklahoma has got a good defense, and I haven't said anything bad about them.

 Q. Do you enjoy this type of event that goes on? Is it a burden? Is it enjoyable?
 TIM TEBOW: Yeah, I think I've enjoyed it. I think I've had fun. I think it would be a lot more fun if we win. But I'm having fun. I'm enjoying the moment, and I'm going to remember it.

 Q. You and Sam actually aren't that similar on the field, but off the field it seems like you're sort of similar guys, you're both religious and modest guys. Do you see that?
 TIM TEBOW: I think in some ways, yeah, I guess. You know, I don't know if our personalities are exactly alike, but in a few manners I think we are similar.

 Q. When you were there, what was the talk like knowing that you were probably going to play each other for the national title?
 TIM TEBOW: Well, we knew we were going to play each other, but there was really no trash talk or anything. I think we were both very nice and cordial to each other and wished each other good look.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 TIM TEBOW: He's fun. He's a great roommate to have. He's a funny guy, so he's always going to be cracking jokes and you're always going to have a good time with him.

 Q. Is he clean?
 TIM TEBOW: He's a lot cleaner that are me, that's for sure.

 Q. Have you gotten a chance to connect with Russ Sowers? Do you have any memories of playing high school football with him?
 TIM TEBOW: No, I haven't talked to him in a while or seen him this week, but yeah, I do remember my freshman year a little bit, and he was a big part of our state championship team and everything.

 Q. You talked the other day about being nervous before the very first mission trip that you took. Do you remember the very first time you had to talk in front of people on one of those trips, what the circumstances were, how long you had to talk, how many people?
 TIM TEBOW: That's tough. I mean, I've talked quite a few times. The first time I don't really remember on one of those trips. There's been so many they all kind of blur together. I remember some stories about the first trip but not necessarily my first speaking engagement.

 Q. Is there one that sticks out where you were kind of nervous beforehand?
 TIM TEBOW: Yeah, I was actually preaching to a school of 10,000 kids and I was pretty nervous in that one, 10,000 high schoolers, and I had never seen an audience quite that big when I was 15 years old.

 Q. Do you remember how long you had to talk and what you said?
 TIM TEBOW: I probably talked about 15 or 20 minutes.

 Q. The statement at the end of the Ole Miss game, how much did that fuel you? And do you feel like your teammates embraced that and took your words to heart?
 TIM TEBOW: I think they really respected what I said and my attitude towards it, but even more so than that, my approach the next week and the weeks after that, how I approached the game. I think the rest of my team how they approached it that Sunday we came out, we had a great practice, and I think you could really see the team, the momentum change, because of our effort, our enthusiasm, and everything we went out there and we played for. I think you could really see a big change then.

 Q. How does your experience from two years ago help you in preparation for this week?
 TIM TEBOW: I think it helps the preparation as far as knowing how to handle yourself, what to look forward to. But it's still a football game, and I don't think there's a big difference in us playing two years ago and this game. I don't think there's too much you can learn from it.

 Q. Were you surprised Utah handled Alabama like they did? And do you think they have any sort of claim to the National Championship?
 TIM TEBOW: I think they came out and they were coached very well. They had a great scheme against Alabama. I don't think that Alabama was ready for this type of scheme because Coach Wittingham is a great defensive coordinator and he came out and had a great plan. They came out and shocked Alabama a little bit to tell you the truth, and you've got to give them a lot of respect. They went out there and they played and they played hard, and I don't know that Alabama was totally ready for that.

 Q. Number one turnover margin is Oklahoma, you guys have the number two. What do you think that means for the tone of the game? It's kind of intriguing.
 TIM TEBOW: It is. I think probably who wins that battle will probably win the game. I think that's probably true any time two teams play, whatever wins the turnover battle wins the game, and that's something we'll really focus on.

 Q. Tell us the strengths of Gainesville as a college town. We joked around with their guys about Norman a little bit, and some of them even admitted the scenery is better than Florida, but tell us what's great about Gainesville?
 TIM TEBOW: There's a lot great about Gainesville. It's a great university, but also, it's not a big town so there's not overwhelming stuff to do. I guess that's a pro or a con depending on how you look at it. I really like it because it's similar to how I grew up, and I really enjoy that. But there's also a lot of people and a lot of things to do even though it's a pretty small town.

 Q. Can you give us a couple examples of what there is to do in Gainesville so people who are looking to coming to maybe Florida or Norman --
 TIM TEBOW: A lot of people talked about, the scenery isn't too bad, and that is one thing that's nice about it. But also it's in the state of Florida, beautiful weather, you can go out there and on Christmas Day practice in 85 degrees (laughing), which is nice, and something we enjoy. I think the guys kind of enjoy how much Gainesville supports them, and when they go out to eat, people are really supportive when they're out at the mall or wherever, people are really supportive of them, and I think it means a lot to our players.

 Q. Talk about the speed of your team and how that puts pressure on their defense.
 TIM TEBOW: I think it does. I think our speed really, when we get our fast guys in the open field, I think it really good create some big plays. I think it has for us this year. We got some guys that are very dynamic and that can make some explosive plays. I think that always helps.
 I think Oklahoma has similar type guys, and I think that's probably the reasons that we're both here.

 Q. What do you see in the Oklahoma defense?
 TIM TEBOW: I think they're very well coached. I think they have a lot of good athletes. I think they're probably underappreciated right now by a lot of people, and I know that we respect them and we're looking forward to the challenge of playing them, and I know we've got to be prepared.

 Q. What has your off-the-field work done to teach you about the game of football?
 TIM TEBOW: Oh, I mean, so much. I mean, I think it gives me a totally different perspective than most people. I think it gives me a sense of purpose of how to handle things that knowing that football is not the most important thing, and people always ask me, how do you handle the pressure, and how do you handle this or that, and being places where I've been with people who are there trying to fight for their next meal, I think that's pressure, not trying to win a football game. And I think that's what we have to remember is that it is a game and it's not the most important thing, and I think for a lot of people it can become the most important thing, it can become the world and their God, and for me it's something that I hope never happens.
 Even though I love it, the game of football, and I work extremely hard at it, it still is not my God, it still is not my No. 1 priority.

 Q. Can I ask about Tate and how he gets clowned around about being an elder statesman? Did you say something about Emmitt Smith with him?
 TIM TEBOW: Yeah, we were joking on the bus. Everybody was giving each other a hard time the other day and guys were clowning on him and saying that he caught a pass from like Shane Matthews and Rex Grossman he's been here so long (laughter). But we have fun with it, and I think he really enjoys it, too.
 When we had Senior Day a lot of guys give him a lot of trouble about, this is the third time you're out for being a senior and whatnot. He had a lot of fun with it. It's something we can joke about and laugh about, and he doesn't really get too offended by it.

 Q. Some of your perspective you were just talking about, some people listen to that and say, he can't be that good, it can't be true that the Tim Tebow we see -- does that bother you or disappoint you that some people think that?
 TIM TEBOW: You're always going to have naysayers, that's something I learned a long time ago from my parents. There's some people that are going to say bad things whatever you do. You can't worry about it. You have to try to do the best thing and do what's right, and if some people aren't supportive, you can't let that bother you. You can't lose sleep over that. You just have to do what you think is right and do your best, and if you did that, then you'll be okay.

 Q. That's easier said than done sometimes --
 TIM TEBOW: It is.

 Q. Did you have to learn that lesson?
 TIM TEBOW: Absolutely. You know, I'm a people pleaser. I want to please people and I want to do the right thing and everything, but sometimes people, they're not going to see it for that, they're going to see it as, oh, you're faking, you're just trying to make people like you and whatnot. So that sometimes can be hurtful. But at the same time my parents have really helped me with that. They'll say if you know that's the right thing to do and you're happy with it, then you shouldn't let those people say that.
 No matter what you do there's going to be people who are going to try to bring you down, so that's human nature and that's what people try to do.

 Q. How disappointing was the Heisman vote? And how do you view going up against the guy that did win the Heisman?
 TIM TEBOW: You know, I think the Heisman was an unbelievable award, great experience, and it's something that I'll always remember, and congratulations to him for winning it. I'm excited about getting a chance to play against a Heisman winner, and it'll be fun.

 Q. What was your reaction when you heard the Oklahoma players say that you would be one of the top four quarterbacks in the Big 12? You've heard it, right?
 TIM TEBOW: Yes, I did hear it, a few times. Just take it and try to use it as motivation and just have fun out here Thursday night.

 Q. How do you use that as motivation?
 TIM TEBOW: I don't think it's very hard, just go ahead and play as hard as I can. I think it's something regardless of what they said I was going to do in the first place.

 Q. Having Percy back, just talk about the significance of that.
 TIM TEBOW: Yeah, it'll be nice. I mean, personally he's probably the most dynamic player in college football, and just having him back on the practice field I think gives a lot more people more confidence. I think it just makes everybody even more excited to know Percy is back, and I think he'll do a lot for our team on Thursday night.

 Q. Do you think he really noticed the second half of Florida State-Alabama that he wasn't out there?
 TIM TEBOW: You can't replace a player like Percy Harvin, but I think guys know on our team if someone goes down someone else has to pick up a rival and get it going. We really preach that, and I think guys took that to heart. Those guys really stepped up when Percy went down, and I think that's the sign of a great team and chemistry is guys, they're not jealous of one another, they want to support one another and just do what matters for the team.



COACH URBAN MEYER



Q. Was there any conversation you had with Tim going into the Heisman this year?
 COACH URBAN MEYER: Tim and I are very close. We've had many conversations. He's as grown up a young player as I've ever been around. Not much. I did see an effect at one time during the beginning of the season. The weight of the world was on his shoulders, and I thought after that Arkansas game he changed back to being Tim Tebow. He was someone else there for a minute, but he came back, and he came back with a vengeance.

 Q. Turnover margin, you guys are No. 1, Oklahoma is No. 2. How intriguing is that?
 COACH URBAN MEYER: I think one of the things that does is like the Alabama comment, I made this comment, if you're a young coach and everybody wants to talk about the spread offenses and other elements of the game, like you just said, there's a reason why those two teams are playing for it. I know USC in the last ten years I want to say they have the fewest turnovers, so I think that's one of the correlations.

 Q. Do you think any part of that has more effect on the game, or is that a similar question, giving up one or getting one is one or the other or worse?
 COACH URBAN MEYER: Well, that's a good question. They're both critical.

 Q. What are the qualities that Dan Mullen has?
 COACH URBAN MEYER: He's extremely intelligent, one of the best I've been around. He's been exposed to a lot of very good coaches, so when I say he's very intelligent, he's not going to go in there and try to change the world, he's going to draw from every coach we've had in our program.
 If you look at the last eight years now, you have some tremendous coaches, and Dan, I think his intelligence will help him be successful.

 Q. Can you talk about Dan McCarty's impact on your staff and the fact that you think he should get another head coaching staff at some point?
 COACH URBAN MEYER: Let me have him for a little while first (laughter). Dan's impact was instrumental. All you have to do was look at the staffs and know what he went from one of the worst defenses in the country to one of the better ones. He also had some maturity, the players really matured. So he was very instrumental. What he did at Iowa State, I think, and that's when Dan and I became close, what he did at Iowa State, I think that's similar to what Coach Snyder did at Kansas State.

 Q. A lot of your players have talked about you taught them how to be men. Is that part of your philosophy?
 COACH URBAN MEYER: That's good. Absolutely, that's a big part of it. I'm honored that they would say that.

 Q. The remarks by the Oklahoma player yesterday about Tebow not even being in the top three quarterbacks, have you had any reaction and have you had to address your team about those comments at all?
 COACH URBAN MEYER: I heard it this morning, and I don't have a reaction. I've done this for a long time, and I'm sure that someone jammed a microphone in his face and he was having fun. If he feels that way, every man is entitled to his opinion, so I don't really have a reaction.

 Q. I know it's not the only aspect that goes into winning a football game, but the emphasis you put on speed, do you go into every game at this point kind of realizing you're going to have that advantage of overall team speed?
 COACH URBAN MEYER: This team we're playing has got a lot of speed, though. We do it when we're facing a team that doesn't match up. You face a team that doesn't match up and that's basically our whole game plan is to somehow get our guy in position so they can't tackle. I'm not sure this is going to be easy because they have great speed on defense.

 Q. Your experience two years ago having played in this game with a lot of your players, does that help you in preparation for this week?
 COACH URBAN MEYER: Well, I looked on the roster, and not many of them played. Many of them got free sandwiches and hats and watches and all that but didn't play. I think being exposed to the guys that didn't play, maybe a hunger to get back, because this is top shelf.
 How many kids get to do this? How many coaches get to do this? It motivates me, so I'm sure it motivates them.

 Q. When your kids graduate from the program what do you hope they'll take away?
 COACH URBAN MEYER: The greatest four years of their life, so they can bring their son or daughter or wife back and point to the wall at University of Florida and say, I had something to do with that number in 2006 and hopefully 2008. We just built a $30 million facility and a big part of that is a tribute to our previous players.

 Q. Win or lose this week, what's Tim's legacy? Compare him to college football's greatest quarterbacks.
 COACH URBAN MEYER: If I have a vote, which I don't, I think he's one of the greatest players ever to play the game, not just quarterback, not just offensive lineman, but when he's finished playing, which we'll find out when, I'll make a comment that I really have to think about before I make a commitment, at this point in time in my opinion he's one of the greatest players to ever play the game.

 Q. Have you had someone as heavily as hyped as him going into a career?
 COACH URBAN MEYER: No. As a matter of fact I see a lot of people crash and burn because he can't handle it. He's better rounded than most adults have been.

 Q. That Notre Dame dream job got some play a few weeks ago. What was the context of that?
 COACH URBAN MEYER: Move on. I'm just trying to answer questions.

 Q. Just generally speaking, though, that place is still very special for anybody who worked there such as yourself?
 COACH URBAN MEYER: Sure.

 Q. Why is it special?
 COACH URBAN MEYER: Next question.

 Q. How important is it to have Percy Harvin back?
 COACH URBAN MEYER: Well, we want to win the game and I want Percy to finish his career at Florida. Number one is to win the game and he gives us a great chance to win. A guy that works as hard as he does and is competitive as he is, to not play in the two showcase games, that's hard on him, and I want him to play in this game.

 Q. Do coaches sit in the back room rubbing their hands together saying, aha, we've got our weapon back?
 COACH URBAN MEYER: That's a good way to put it.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 COACH URBAN MEYER: I was asked that question yesterday. I'm not making those decisions, but Charlie has every quality you'd want in a head coach. I don't want to lose him, but coaching, in my opinion, is about seventh in terms of what makes a good coach, leadership, strong family values, a guy that can recruit. He has it all.

 Q. I'm doing something on Louis Murphy. How has he changed since you got him?
 COACH URBAN MEYER: He was a non-functional guy when he went to Florida. Without getting too harsh on him, he knows, and I think this is such a positive, he would not have survived at the rate he was going, academically, socially, football-wise, no chance. And now he's a graduate, on his way to the NFL and playing for a National Championship.

 Q. How important was it for you to get to St. Pete after he lost his mom?
 COACH URBAN MEYER: Well, thank God we had a school plane. I was in SEC meetings and I knew what was helping. I left the meetings early and went. Louis and I are that close, and I'd expect if something happened for the rest of our lives we'll be there.

 Q. When the time comes for Tim to be in the NFL do you think he'll sort of be a more conventional NFL quarterback?
 COACH URBAN MEYER: I think it depends on the system and if someone is going to try -- it's amazing to me when someone tries to take a guy like a Chris Lee and put him in a spread offense and say Chris can't do it. Fire the coach and get another coach in there that knows how to utilize his skills. If someone knows what they're doing, he'll be a great NFL quarterback. We don't run the west coast, so I don't know that.

 Q. What do you think that old thinking that quarterbacks can't run in the NFL because their bodies get abused?
 COACH URBAN MEYER: I think there's some truth to that. If you notice, NFL is not much different from the SEC, with all due respect. If you're a player and start in the SEC you're going to the NFL, that's just the way it is. What's the difference between Oklahoma's defense or Alabama's defense? That's the difference because all those kids are going to play at the next level. I think we were educated a little bit, and on Tim we've done a little bit of this with Tim.

 Q. You've limited his exposure this year?
 COACH URBAN MEYER: Yeah, because his longevity in the NFL will not be very high. I ran him 28 times against Ole Miss, and I will not do that again.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 COACH URBAN MEYER: If you're asking my concern, that's a huge concern, and it's hard to simulate, especially when you've got some guys banged up. Louis Murphy and Carl Johnson and some guys haven't practiced a lot, so it's a big concern.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 COACH URBAN MEYER: We went about a 40-play scrimmage with officials and game clock going and substitution.

 Q. Was that an unusual thing for you to do?
 COACH URBAN MEYER: No, we did it two years ago.

 Q. Would you prefer that the Bowl season where it is?
 COACH URBAN MEYER: I kind of like it. I made this comment two years ago when we were the first team to go the whole week away from the other Bowls, I think that's great for college football. The whole country is going to watch us. It's great for Florida, great for our players and great for college football.

 Q. Do you worry a little bit about the motivation Oklahoma is feeling, kind of the underdog?
 COACH URBAN MEYER: Sure.

 Q. Do you worry about the relationships your players develop with the commentators and all that?
 COACH URBAN MEYER: I worry about it all, everything you just said, and multiply it by 6, 700. We lock them down and try to get right in the middle of their minds. The thing is we've got a very mature team. We played the loss of respect and no respect card two years ago, and it worked. I'm not quite sure which direction we're going to head here, but we're going to head real soon.

 Q. It's kind of like the roles are reversed?
 COACH URBAN MEYER: It feels like that but I don't believe that. I know their coaching staff and their players, I think they're top shelf. I think these next 48 hours, what you said is going to be really critical to this game, getting in the right mindset for this game.

 Q. Talk about what you told Coach Stoops about your decision to go to Florida.
 COACH URBAN MEYER: He was a guy that I knew I'd get an unbiased opinion. He was one of the few guys that had nothing to gain. He's from northeastern Ohio, we share a lot of the same values, family values, and as I would expect, he was very fair to me.



BRANDON SPIKES



Q. How often do you think of him on the field?
  BRANDON SPIKES: There's not a day that goes by that I don't think of him. Like I said, he's kind of like motivation for me being able to take care of my family.
 
 Q. You said he deserved a new trial. What was he, wrong place, wrong time?
  BRANDON SPIKES: It's a lot of stuff go into it, but like I said, he was kind of in the streets. My neighborhood where I grew up, it's a lot of negative people. Too many people don't ever make it out of there. I was fortunate enough to be around a lot of the right guys making a lot of the right decisions.
 
 Q. But his thing is he didn't actually shoot the guy?
  BRANDON SPIKES: I don't think I really want to talk about it. He had the same opportunities I had. Like I said, we had a great mother and she did a great job of teaching us right and wrong. He got around the wrong people and my mother was working a 12-hour-a-day job and she was just trying to provide for us when she could. She was raising two boys by herself, and he was older than me, and she got me involved in sports so I wasn't out running around. But he was older and was able to get out into the world a little bit more than me.
  You know, like I said, kids watch everything. Me, I try to do the right thing, even behind closed doors because you never know who's watching.
 
 Q. (Inaudible.)
 BRANDON SPIKES: I think that was a turning point for me. My brother was a dynamic athlete himself. He played linebacker, played basketball, baseball, everything. He was good at all of them, great. He had an opportunity to go to school and he went to school, and made another bad decision and got kicked out of school and came back to the streets. He was a guy that I looked up to because he was always good at everything he did as far as schoolwork or drawing or playing sports. He kind of made me want to be good at football, and when he made that decision he got messed up and it kind of hurt him.
 
 Q. (Inaudible.)
 BRANDON SPIKES: I haven't. Like I said, I really don't get too much time to go back to Oklahoma. I know my mom and my aunt visit him.
 
 Q. Is he on death row?
  BRANDON SPIKES: No, just life without parole.
 
 Q. (Inaudible.)
 BRANDON SPIKES: Absolutely. Like I said, I'm always going to take care of my family, and he's part of my family's blood, and that's one reason I wanted to try to get to the National Championship.
 
 Q. Joe just said that you and him are the most popular players on defense.
  BRANDON SPIKES: I think Joe, he plays well, like I said, when you watch film you can't help but see Joe Haden making plays all over the field.
  I have to say he's one of the more popular guys with the fans.




LOUIS MURPHY



Q. Will you dedicate this game to your mother?
 LOUIS MURPHY: Yeah, man. This whole season is dedicated to her. Everything will be dedicated to my mother. I love her. I miss her. I know she's here with me. I'm just thankful to God that He brought me this far.

 Q. Going back to that time in St. Petersburg sitting in your living room, and now here you are --
 LOUIS MURPHY: Sitting on the couch doing our old little interview, and coming to Florida, sitting for two years, and now --

 Q. My last interview is here with you and you're at the National Championship. 
 A. Miami, Florida, graduated from college, three and a half years. Sitting here I can think back, I remember what we had on and sitting in my living room, mom asking did you want anything to eat, drink. You said, no, I'm fine. God has blessed me, man.

 Q. The next time you were painting a building --
 LOUIS MURPHY: Yeah, man. I got my eagle scout, and I had a citizenship award banquet, distinguished citizenship award back in St. Pete. It's just been a great feeling. God has bought me so far. You know where I came from, you've been there, sitting in my house. My family has been growing tighter, Coach Rosales has been great. It's just great, man, to sit up here.

 Q. When will you let those memories all come out?
 LOUIS MURPHY: Oh, man, when we hold up that trophy then I know I probably won't be able to hold it in. Oklahoma is a great team, so hopefully we can come out and just play our best game.

 Q. Having Percy Harvin back in the lineup how much does that make a difference?
 LOUIS MURPHY: It makes all the world of difference. You can put him in any position. Just having him back takes some pressure off of me.

 Q. What's the biggest thing, speed, versatility --
 LOUIS MURPHY: Not his speed, his first ten yards. It's the fastest ten yards I've ever seen, and he keeps getting faster and faster as he runs.

 Q. When did you first notice that?
 LOUIS MURPHY: The first day he came in. The first day he came in as soon as he stepped on campus, his first move off the line, I was like, wow, this dude really has something to him. 

 Q. Do you have a thought about your mom that stands out? Is there anything that stands out most to you?
 LOUIS MURPHY: Actually the thing that really stands out to me is when I used to cry. I used to cry a lot, and my mother always used to say, stop crying, boy, and suck it up. Stop being a wimp. I'm Polynesian and she's Samoan, so she'd say, stop being a wimp, stop crying, and she'd say some things in her language. Every day if I'd feel sad or feel down, I just think about that, "stop being a wimp and just suck it up." She always used to tell me that.

 Q. What would it mean for your family, for you guys to win this championship to cap off the season?
 LOUIS MURPHY: It would be great to end the season with a National Championship, the Florida Gators and playing with a Heisman Trophy winner down in Miami, Florida. And to do it all while my mom is right here with me, it will be great.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT