MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 9, 2008
Chris Guccione
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  Sunk in yet, mate, what's happened?   
 CHRIS GUCCIONE:  Yeah, I think it has.  I mean, I've had a few good wins in the past and I guess it took a while then, but been on Tour for a while now and had a few good wins.  Had a moment just preparing for tomorrow's match.   
  
  Q.  What does this win rank from all those other ones?   
 CHRIS GUCCIONE:  Has to be one the best.  Winning the fifth rubber for the in Davis Cup is probably the top one of the moment still.   
 But Lleyton is a great champion, former No. 1, two-time Grand Slam winner.  To beat him here in Sydney where he's won it so many times, yeah, it's pretty high on the scale.   
  
  Q.  At what stage did you feel like you could really get his measure in this match?   
 CHRIS GUCCIONE:  Yeah, I was going into the match knowing that I had a chance if I served well.  I thought I did serve really well.  If I do that I'm always going to be in a match with basically anyone.   
 To get the first-set tiebreak and then sort of pushing him a little bit on the serve in the second set early.  Yeah, I mean I was just out there trying to hold serve and trying to get into his service games.   
 I hit a few good shots in the tiebreakers to get the mini breaks, and that was all I needed have.   
  
  Q.  With some of the criticism from Tennis Legends, do you feel any vindication kind of doing this today?   
 CHRIS GUCCIONE:  Not really.  I don't have to prove myself to them.  I know how hard I work and how hard I work in the off-season.  I guess if this shows them that I have worked hard then it's good.   
  
  Q.  The sixth point the second set tiebreak Lleyton was questioning whether you got that ball back.  Talk us through that shot.  Did you feel it was all right?   
 CHRIS GUCCIONE:  Is that what that was?  Yeah, I wasn't sure what he was saying.  Yeah, I thought I got it.  Hit the frame and it just went over.  I wasn't aware that he was arguing about that.   
  
  Q.  So just hit it off your frame a little bit?   
 CHRIS GUCCIONE:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  It's the first time you played together in battle, in a match.  What was it like playing a compatriot knowing that you're getting him fired up and getting him stirred up?   
 CHRIS GUCCIONE:  Yeah, it's a little bit tough.  We're good friends.  We've been to a lot Davis Cup ties together.  It's always a tough match.  There's a lot of pressure and expectation, and obviously everyone's watching.  So I mean, I think obviously for me it went quite well.   
  
  Q.  Seeing him fired up, did that make you feel good, or was that a bit scary?   
 CHRIS GUCCIONE:  Yeah, it goes either way.  When he gets fired up he tends to play better.  I didn't know what to think.  I just try not to think too much about what my opponent's doing.  I feel if I play my game and execute well I can get the job done.   
  
  Q.  What are your thoughts on Tomas Berdych?   
 CHRIS GUCCIONE:  Obviously a really good player.  He's Top 15, I think.  Great ball-striker, good serve, and solid runs.  Again, I'm going to have to find a way to serve well and find a way to get in on his service games.   
  
  Q.  Have you played him?   
 CHRIS GUCCIONE:  I don't think so.  I think he's my age so was around in juniors, but I don't think I ever played him in singles.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT