MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 8, 2008
Chris Guccione
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  Are you hoping Lleyton gets through so you can test your credentials? 
 CHRIS GUCCIONE:  Yeah, it would be good.  Aussie versus Aussie, someone in the quarters at least.  Yeah, I've never played him before in a tournament.  I practiced with him a little bit.  Not so much, because there's never really been lefties in the opposing Davis Cup teams.  It will be a nice challenge if he gets through. 

 Q.  What's it been like when you practiced against him? 
 CHRIS GUCCIONE:  He's definitely had the better of me.  But as I said, it was a few years ago, so, you know, we'll see. 

 Q.  How do you think your game would stack up against Lleyton? 
 CHRIS GUCCIONE:  Obviously he's one of the best returners in the world so I would have to serve really well.  I think I've got a decent chance if I play well. 
 I'll have to play I think better than today, but if I play well I think I've got the game to trouble most guys in the world. 

 Q.  So it's an another nothing-to-lose sort of attitude? 
 CHRIS GUCCIONE:  Not exactly.  I'll go out there swinging.  There's always a match to lose.  I'm not going out there thinking that I'm not going to win. 

 Q.  You must have been thrilled when you saw you were going against another Spaniard first round here. 
 CHRIS GUCCIONE:  Yeah.  I've had a few of them. 

 Q.  And good results against all of them. 
 CHRIS GUCCIONE:  Yeah.  I like playing here, so I've been in the second round a few times.  Unfortunately I haven't gotten any further, so maybe this time I'll get to the quarters. 

 Q.  How do you feel like you played today?  Do you feel like you stepped it up? 
 CHRIS GUCCIONE:  I think I struggled a little bit today.  I thought I was playing a little bit better in Adelaide.  Struggled returning a little bit today.  Only the one break of serve and the one breakpoint. 
 I think -- I don't know if I even got the juice in the first set.  That's one thing that I'd liked to do a bit better against Lleyton if I play him, or Nicolas.  I've got a doubles match this afternoon, so it's good practice out there for me. 

 Q.  18 aces today.  It's a pretty big donation. 
 CHRIS GUCCIONE:  Yeah.  I couldn't be happier.  It's not often that I get out there and get to play a match where they do donate money for every ace served.  They happened to choose my match today.  
 As I said on the court, the first few games every time I hit an ace I thought there was another one, but that sort of went on the of my mind a little but towards the end of the first set.  I was trying to focus a little bit more.  That's great.  I couldn't believe happier. 

 Q.  Do you have any links to juvenile diabetes? 
 CHRIS GUCCIONE:  I don't. 

 Q.  Just want to help out? 
 CHRIS GUCCIONE:  Yeah. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT