AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 16, 2006
Chris Guccione
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 
 
 
Q.  What are your thoughts on today's match?
 
CHRIS GUCCIONE:  I thought I did everything pretty well except for return.  Probably didn't make enough returns in the end.  I mean, to his credit, he served like a centimeter from the line most times, and he's serving a good percentage.  So wasn't much I could do.  
 
Q.  You still take confidence from a match like that?  You were in most games in all three sets. 
 
CHRIS GUCCIONE:  Yeah, definitely.  I mean, he's a top 10 player in the world, so to lose 6, 4 and 6 to him, it's not a bad result.  But still a few things I could have improved on. 
 
Q.  That score line shows you how competitive it was.  What do you need to do, do you think, yourself, to go that extra step?
 
CHRIS GUCCIONE:  As I said, I didn't make enough returns today.  To get the ball back into play and put a lot more pressure on him on his service games.  He was holding to love a lot of times today and no pressure at all on his serve.  So that's the main thing, I think.  I mean, there was one stage where I just felt like I couldn't get a racquet on the ball, he was serving that close to the lines.  But that's the way it goes. 
 
Q.  Were you a bit tentative early with your ground strokes?  You perhaps looked like you weren't quite going for them.  When things started to warm up in the third set, you looked a completely different player. 
 
CHRIS GUCCIONE:  Yeah.  Yeah, I was a bit nervous at the start.  I didn't want to miss the ball, and ended up missing the ball because I was tentative.  Yeah, but I got my way into the match and started to hit the ball pretty good. 
 
Q.  What were your thoughts when you saw Ljubicic as your first-round opponent as opposed to one of the hundred guys it could have been?
 
CHRIS GUCCIONE:  Tough draw but a good opportunity to have an upset and get a good win.  
 
Q.  What's the plan from here?
 
CHRIS GUCCIONE:  Hopefully doubles here and maybe mixed.  So we're going with that.  Then I'm not sure after that.  Haven't worked out my schedule yet. 
 
Q.  I guess you want an opportunity to play against these sort of guys more often?
 
CHRIS GUCCIONE:  Yeah, exactly, exactly.  I'll play a lot more qualifying tour events this year and hopefully do well against them. 
 
Q.  What were your thoughts on the past year of tennis?
 
CHRIS GUCCIONE:  First six, seven months were really good, French Open, Queen's, things like that.  But last six months in America I was doing the challenger circuit and had a lot of niggling injuries so it was tough to get a good run on.  But still had a few good results, but it could have been better.  
 
Q.  Where does Rebound Ace fit in your list of preferred surfaces?  Obviously, grass is up there. 
 
CHRIS GUCCIONE:  I don't mind it.  I live in Melbourne so I get to train on it a lot and it's a bit of an advantage when there's only two or three tournaments on it in a year.  So in that respect, it's good.  But when we get overseas, it's a lot tougher because everyone trains on hard court and the clay and the grass courts.  It's a positive and a negative.  Personally, I like it.  They could be a little bit quicker.  They're really bouncy and the ball sits there a little bit.  Overall I think it's pretty good.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT