THE STELLA ARTOIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 8, 2005
Chris Guccione
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question for Chris. 
 

Q.  You are liking the grass, aren't you?
 
CHRIS GUCCIONE:  Yeah, always have.  Suits my game (smiling). 
 

Q.  Are you happy with your serve today?  Just midway through that first set, you seemed to get on a real roll with the aces.
 
CHRIS GUCCIONE:  Yeah, I've been serving well for the past three or four matches.  I mean, I've only lost serve a handful of times.  Today I didn't lose serve.  I didn't even get to deuce, I don't think.  So I was pretty happy with my serve today. 
 

Q.  How satisfying is this?  Getting on a good run will have ranking benefits and all sorts of things.
 
CHRIS GUCCIONE:  Yep.  Oh, it's really satisfying.  I've actually never got past the second round in a tour event before, so this is my first time in the third round.  I'm pretty happy with that. 
 

Q.  You've got Tim next.  What are your thoughts on that?
 
CHRIS GUCCIONE:  Tim's a great player and he's going to have the crowd behind him.  It's going to be a tough match for me.  But I've just got to go out there and try to serve my best and play my best. 
 

Q.  You've had the experience, at least, of playing high-profile players before, like in Australia last year.
 
CHRIS GUCCIONE:  Yeah.  Yeah, I mean, I've played these players before, and in Australia it's a lot different because you've got 90% of the crowd behind you. But over here it's gonna be behind Tim, but you expect that so you go out there and try to do your best. 
 

Q.  Did you watch his game last night?
 
CHRIS GUCCIONE:  No, I didn't see it, no. 
 

Q.  Have you witnessed what the British crowd are like behind a British player?
 
CHRIS GUCCIONE:  Oh, I know that it's for him, but I haven't taken that much notice, no.  I'm not sure. 
 

Q.  He was suggesting maybe they got a bit quiet when they had a few drinks at the end of the day.
 
CHRIS GUCCIONE:  Okay.  Hopefully we play late then (smiling). 
 

Q.  Did you check the stats?  How many aces did you serve today?
 
CHRIS GUCCIONE:  I'm not sure.  Don't know.  Wouldn't mind finding out, though. 
 

Q.  Did you go into the match feeling that you had a good opportunity with this one?  He has had some good success in the past, but the fact that he's more of a slow court player...
 
CHRIS GUCCIONE:  Yeah, I mean, I went in quietly confident.  Obviously, he doesn't come to the net that much.  He's got a big forehand, solid backhand, and a pretty big serve. But, I mean, out there today, I was slicing a lot and keeping the ball low.  And with his severe grips, he finds it hard to get under the ball and get it up, which it really helped me today. 
 

Q.  With what you've done in Paris and here and stuff, are you starting to belong in this sort of company now?  Is your confidence at that level?
 
CHRIS GUCCIONE:  Yeah.  Yeah, definitely.  I mean, today I went out there, and in the past I'd go out there and I'd think, "Oh, this guy's ranked 40 in the world, I'm the underdog, I'm going to struggle to beat him," but this morning I was feeling confident out there. 
 

Q.  Are you happy with the role of the "Next Great Hope of Australian Tennis"?
 
CHRIS GUCCIONE:  Oh, I don't mind (smiling).  But, I mean, there's a few really good young Juniors coming through that are playing in the Juniors here.  I mean, there's a few of us out there; it's not only me. 
 

Q.  It's often said there's such a lack of depth in Australian men's tennis now.  Do you feel there's pressure on guys like you and Todd Reid now?
 
CHRIS GUCCIONE:  Obviously, there's more pressure, but we can't do anything about it.  We're always out there trying our best, trying to win, and trying to get our ranking as high as we can. 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT