MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 12, 2008
Chris Guccione
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  That was kind of -- to lose 7-6, 7-6 and you had one more point that Tursunov, it's a strange way to lose a match. 
 CHRIS GUCCIONE:  I had one more point, did I? 

 Q.  Yeah. 
 CHRIS GUCCIONE:  I thought it was a strange game, not much in it at all.  He played better tiebreakers than me in the end. 

 Q.  Was it down to nerves in the end for you? 
 CHRIS GUCCIONE:  No.  At the end he came up with two great returns and, you know, a good pass.  So, yeah, he just played a little bit more solid and won a couple return points in the tiebreaks. 

 Q.  Nevertheless, quite a successful week for you? 
 CHRIS GUCCIONE:  Yeah, great week.  This puts me back into the Top 100 and hopefully jump start my year and have a good Aussie Open. 

 Q.  What sort of goals have you got for the year? 
 CHRIS GUCCIONE:  Well, before this tournament and Adelaide we sort of set the goal top 50, which we thought was definitely achievable, even though my ranking was I think 130 at the time.  So I'm back inside the top 100, and I definitely think top 50 is achievable. 

 Q.  Do you feel like a top 50 player now? 
 CHRIS GUCCIONE:  Yeah, for sure.  If I keep playing this sort of tennis, and I think I've shown I can beat these guys on a consistent basis.  Hopefully I can keep playing like this throughout the year. 

 Q.  Any aspects of this match that you can take to the Australian Open? 
 CHRIS GUCCIONE:  Of this match?  I mean, I thought I served and volleyed really well.  Wasn't really troubled on serve the whole night.  You know, that's one of the things that we worked hard on is first volley and moving around the net, so I thought that was great. 
 If I can keep that going during the Aussie Open, and I can get a couple of breaks against Lee I think we got a good chance first round. 

 Q.  Big learning curve this week.  What was the biggest thing you learned? 
 CHRIS GUCCIONE:  I guess similar thing to when I made the final of Adelaide:  Just to show that I can beat this sort of caliber of players match after match.  I'm definitely playing a lot better than I was in Adelaide, so yeah, to win these matches against Berdych and Hewitt and Stepanek all in a row is great. 

 Q.  Does that make it exciting? 
 CHRIS GUCCIONE:  Yeah, for sure.  If I can keep this up who knows what's possible.  I'm looking forward to it. 

 Q.  You go into next week with sort of less pressure from this week, or does it raise people's expectations of you? 
 CHRIS GUCCIONE:  I don't really try to think about that sort of stuff, what other people think.  I'm going to go down and get a couple day's practice in hopefully and just focus on the match and what I need to do to win. 
 I don't think there's any point in thinking about pressure or less or more or whatever.  Just go out in and try to do my job. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT