MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 11, 2008
Chris Guccione
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  Looked pretty tough out there. 
 CHRIS GUCCIONE:  Yeah, it was a very tough match.  I felt a struggled a little bit today compared to the way I played against Berdych on the return and baseline game.  I hung in there with my serve and took the opportunity at the end when it came. 

 Q.  After the high of today what'll you do tonight?  Go somewhere quiet?  What will you do to refocus for tomorrow? 
 CHRIS GUCCIONE:  A little bit of a rub and recovery while I'm here, and then, yeah, I'll just head back in to relax.  Probably stay in the hotel and have a really quiet one and just recover for tomorrow's match. 

 Q.  Are there lessons learn from Adelaide that you've taken into this final? 
 CHRIS GUCCIONE:  Not so much Adelaide.  I won five in a row in Adelaide, so I thought it was a pretty good performance there.  In the past years when I beat -- like when I beat Ferrero for the first time I think it dragged on a little bit with the media and was just not focused enough for the next match. 
 That was a pretty bad performance.  Just focusing on the next match.  There's only one more match, so hopefully one more good performance. 

 Q.  You said at the start of the tournament that you thought you had the game to worry anybody.  Do you have that belief now? 
 CHRIS GUCCIONE:  Yeah.  That's one thing that comes with a lot of experience, I think.  I've always had good wins against top players but unable to keep it up.  It's happening more and more these days, you know.  I mean, hopefully set for a good year. 

 Q.  What's the best thing this week's given you?  Confidence, or what is it? 
 CHRIS GUCCIONE:  Yeah, it's a perfect start to the year really.  Confidence beating those top players and match practice before the Aussie Open, and also the ranking points to get myself in the Top 100 again. 

 Q.  Talk about your likely opponents for the final.  Have you played them before, or what have you seen of them as a spectator? 
 CHRIS GUCCIONE:  I've seen them play a little bit before.  I've never played them.  Obviously very good players and in form as well.  Tursunov is a big striker of the ball and a tough player to play from the back. 
 Fabrice is a little bit different.  Moves the ball around and has got great hands.  Either way it's going to be tough. 

 Q.  The crowd really seemed to be cheering you on. 
 CHRIS GUCCIONE:  Yeah, it's great.  Tough conditions.  Hot and windy.  When they get behind your back and it gets towards the end of the third it's great to have them on your side. 

 Q.  Assuming you eventually do, after this tournament, break into the Top 100, can you talk a little bit about how getting into that two digit ranking affords you more opportunities and what that means for your own tennis career this year. 
 CHRIS GUCCIONE:  Yeah, I think at the moment I will be back in the Top 100 no matter what the result tomorrow.  Yeah, I mean, it just gives you more opportunity to get into the main draw of bigger tournaments.  Once you're in the bigger tournaments you get more chances to make more points.  I mean, it's a cycle. 

 Q.  Have you had any chance to think about your first-round opponent in Melbourne at all? 
 CHRIS GUCCIONE:  No.  I haven't seen the draw, and I prefer not to know.  Just trying to focus on the next match. 

 Q.  You've had your doubters over the last few weeks, which is pretty well documented. 
 CHRIS GUCCIONE:  Doesn't really worry me.  They can think and say what they want.  Hopefully they've seen that I've done the work and it's paying off. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT