AL DIVISION SERIES: INDIANS v MARINERS
October 14, 2001
Jamie Moyer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Did you consider going back early? 

JAMIE MOYER:   No. 

Q.  A lot of starting pitchers do; how come you didn't want to?

JAMIE MOYER:   I've never done it, number one.  Number two, I don't see any reason why.  And number three, my feeling is, I've been on a team, I feel like I'm a part of the team, why separate yourself from the team.  Number four, why fly non-charter if you don't have to.  Number five, I've seen it done numerous times.  Actually it goes back to the Cubs days, and every time I've seen it done, the starter never lasts beyond the first or second inning. 

Q.  Other than that? 

JAMIE MOYER:   Other than that, yeah.  (Laughter.)

Q.  Why are you still here? 

JAMIE MOYER:   Actually I was waiting to drive home with you.  (Laughs).

Q.  Preparing for a game that may not be played, what's going through your mind? 

JAMIE MOYER:   I think you answered your own question.  How can you prepare for a game that you may not play?  You can't, right?  I think today's the day that  -- and I think I feel like I did this the last time I pitched and every time I pitch, even during the course of the season.  I'll be doing the pitching chart again today, keeping track of pitches, watching the game probably a little more diligently than I normally do.  And, you know, try to pull out what I can from that game, or the experience of that game, and maybe have the opportunity to use some of the information the following day, and maybe not.  But, again, you know, it's like in every day life, why worry about things that you don't have any control over; so why worry about tomorrow when we've got to get through today, first.  First of all, we've got to even play today.  Who knows what the weather is going to deal to us today, so I think it's just a matter of wait and see.  It seems like it's supposed to rain for a couple of hours from what I've been told  -- that's what I've heard. 

Q.  You've had three successful games against Cleveland; have you ever had a season where you've dominated a team like you have Cleveland this year? 

JAMIE MOYER:   The way you phrased it, you said a good team.  The way I look at it, they are all good teams.  Whether you are in the playoffs or not, you're facing Major League caliber players.  In most cases, it's the best players in the world.  You people may not write it that way or look at it that way in how you view the games, but I think all in all, the talent is pretty consistent and pretty good.  You know, I've had some success against some teams, but I've struggled against this team in the past.  I think it was a different team; it was a different type of ballclub, and I feel like I've been able to make some adjustments to the personnel that they have here currently, compared to people that they have had here in the past.  I think, too, it's just a matter of, again, the way this year was set up, it was a little more  -- I felt it was a little more difficult because we didn't see them as much.  We only saw them twice, where we saw a lot of teams in our division, it seemed like at certain points in the season, it seemed like we were only going to play teams in our division; it was getting old, but it was fun.  But you start to see players more often, you start to see tendencies more often; where this year, the way the schedule was set up and playing Cleveland only twice, fortunately I was able to pitch against them twice and got a few more repetitions against them than if I was not able to pitch against them at all or only once.  Other than that, it's just a visual of what you see and what you think.  For me, then it becomes a crap  shoot. 

Q.  Is three days rest going to be any issue for you? 

JAMIE MOYER:   I think I have done it once  -- I think.  Don't hold me to that.

Q.  Lou said you hadn't. 

JAMIE MOYER:   If anybody would know, he would know.  Somebody asked me the other day and told me I did do it once.  I'm not aware that I've done it or not and to me it really doesn't make a difference.  I've done it in the past, and in this situation, the way I look at it, who cares.  You know, I'm going to go out and try to give you my best effort and hopefully it's good enough. 

Q.  When you're dealing with such a quick turnaround with an opponent you faced less than a week ago, is it easier for the hitter to make adjustments to the pitchers or the pitchers to make adjustments to the hitters? 

JAMIE MOYER:   That's a good question, and I don't really have an answer for you.  You know if the hitters get a lot of hits they will say it's an easy adjustment.  If the pitcher pitches well, they will see it's an easy adjustment.  My feeling is you go out and pitch and you go out and hit.  Again, I try not to get caught up in that.  If you get caught up in that, well, geez, I threw this pitch last week or a couple days ago, I can't throw it again.  To me, you can throw any pitch at any time if you set it up properly and you locate the ball.

Q.  If you do not advance past this round, does it diminish what you guys did during the regular season? 

JAMIE MOYER:   For me, no.  Personally, no.  We won 116 games as a team.  We had a pretty nice season, as a club.  We lived it.  We breathed it.  We ate it.  We enjoyed it.  Our fans enjoyed it.   I think the baseball world enjoyed it.  You know, it's something that can never be taken away from us, regardless of what happens today or tomorrow or next week, and it's something that we accomplished.  I think it's a great accomplishment for a team that go through, and I think you could ask any team that plays during the course of a season that's either in the playoffs now or sitting at home now and they would probably all love to be in that situation, winning 116 games.  But also, the people that are not in the playoffs now, they would tell you we'd give up the 116 games to be in the playoffs.  I think we all play the regular season, to play well, and to win, and not to say that the teams that we played against, we're not trying or anything like that, but I think we put forth a great effort this year.  It's something that I think was pretty remarkable, especially in today's world, in today's game. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT