AL DIVISION SERIES: INDIANS v MARINERS
October 11, 2001
Jamie Moyer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What was your import on starting the game quickly, getting out in front -- not letting them score early.  And then when you scored, not letting them come back?
 
JAMIE MOYER:  I think it's trying to set a tone early in the game.  Go out in the first inning and going three up, three down allows you to get yourself somewhat grounded and get going in the right direction.  And we came back and scored four runs in the first.  I felt that was pretty important.  And from there we were able to put another zero up behind that, back up the first zero and again, do it again in the third and the fourth.  It keeps the momentum on our side and allows us to establish ourselves in the game. 
 
Q.  Jamie, for a lot of the game I noticed not only in your keeping guys off balance with your change of speeds, but you often tended to stop and wait, make guys step out.  How much of that is part of your gameplan in keeping guys off their timing?
 
JAMIE MOYER:  I don't think any of the -- when you're referring to guys stepping out of the box, I don't think that I'm trying to force that to happen. I think that's their own individual thing.  The way I like to pitch is get the ball and go.  I want to the  game to move along quickly. 
 
Q.  Pretty level-headed bunch in the clubhouse. You've been through a lot.  Any special emotional significance for you winning this game?
 
JAMIE MOYER:  Getting to the playoffs? 
 
Q.  No, today.
 
JAMIE MOYER:  Getting to the playoffs healthy, getting through a game healthy and winning a playoff game.  I mean, this is a dream come true.  And it was a team effort and we played well together today.  And I expect that we'll go to Cleveland and have the same results. 
 
Q.  Jamie, given your past playoff history, starting with Baltimore where you had to go out with an injury, and last year, were you sort of cursing your playoff fate?
 
JAMIE MOYER:  No, not necessarily.  I mentioned the other day, I think things happen for a reason.  I still don't have an answer to that reason, probably never will.  But again I think we all strive to reach the playoffs and perform well in the playoffs.  And today was an opportunity where that all has come true for me.  It's a dream come true. 
 
Q.  Jamie, just the idea of the team getting those runs early, there's been a lot of speculation,  articles, people asking a lot of questions yesterday, how you guys would respond.  Did that surprise you how your team came out and took control?
 
JAMIE MOYER:  No, I think we've taken a lot of control or taken control of a lot of games like that this year.  I feel like we were probably in the situation where guys felt that they needed to do a little bit more.  And today we were able to do that. 
 
Q.  Jamie, you saw Cameron's home run go, and when you saw Edgar's, how much more confident did you feel going back out there?
 
JAMIE MOYER:  Well, it was nice to see that happen.  But I think the biggest thing for myself personally was to try to stay focused on the task that I had to try to perform and not get caught up in the runs that we were scoring, and the high 5's and the handshakes, and things like that.  The way I look at it, there's plenty of time for that after the game.  So it was really up to me to go out in the second inning and put a zero up behind that, to make that 4 stand up a little bit bigger. 
 
Q.  Jamie, is Cameron as loose as he seems?
 
JAMIE MOYER:  Yes.  He's a fun loving guy. He's got a lot of confidence.  I don't think it's a cocky type of confidence, it's just his personality.  And I think it's just the way he is.  And I think he keeps a lot of guys loose.  But again he's being himself, and I think that's what you want to be.  You want to come to the ballpark and be yourself and play hard and have fun with it.  And I really think that he does that. 
 
Q.  You struck out Thome twice with -- at least with what the scoreboard said was a 77 and an 85 mile an hour pitch.  That's not what history is all about these days.  Where does that come from?
 
JAMIE MOYER:  That's all I have to offer (laughter.)  I can't reach back and throw 95.  So I feel like I have to use the abilities that I have and try to find ways to get people out.  And there might be different ways than the average person or the normal Major League pitcher.  But I feel like I'm pretty comfortable with what I have and I've found, I think over the last number of years, that I've found a way to utilize that and to use it to my benefit. 
 
Q.  The manager calls that guile.  Are you tricking them?
 
JAMIE MOYER:  You'd have to ask them if I'm tricking them.  I'm just trying to go out and pitch. And trying to be aggressive with what I have.  If it doesn't make the media or the fans happy, the velocity,  well, that's all I have.  Again, I'm trying to go out and perform to the best of my abilities and hopefully it's good enough each and every time out. 
 
Q.  How much, Jamie, not participating last year, how much does that drive you and motivate you this year?
 
JAMIE MOYER:  I don't think it has an affect.  I think just being a professional athlete and being a professional baseball player, I think the drive is right there. 
 
Q.  The other day something was made of the shadows, the effect on the hitters.  And the Indians scored a lot of runs with the shadows.  Are you aware of the shadow across the infield, and if so, does that play into your pitching?
 
JAMIE MOYER:  I'm aware of the shadow.  I don't think it has any affect on my pitching, personally.  Again, I'm not in the other dugout, I don't hear the response of the hitters coming back to the bench.  Again, those are things that I can't control as a pitcher.  And I try not to get caught up in things that I don't have anything to do with.  My job is to go out and throw strikes and try to be effective.  And beyond that, once I release the ball, I'm out of the picture, unless the ball comes back at  me or I have to cover first base.  So that's simple, but I think it's so true, from a pitcher's standpoint. If you're prepared and you do the right things at the rubber, and you release the ball properly, you're done. 
 
Q.  How much of a lift for you, and do you think for your team, the fact that the first four guys on your team came out aggressive and put up those four runs.  Is it a lift for you, as well as your teammates?
 
JAMIE MOYER:  It's a lift when you score runs early.  I think it's a big lift.  Especially in games like these, in a playoff game.  You never know what's going to happen.  I think it builds momentum, and we were able to -- I felt like I was able to work off of that today. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT