AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: YANKEES v MARINERS
October 20, 2001
Jamie Moyer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Piniella said that Bret Boone's hit relaxed the whole bunch; did you sense that?

JAMIE MOYER:   Actually I was not on the bench.  I felt like we got to the fifth inning and we had not scored any runs, had not had many hits, so I felt if we went inside it might change our luck.  So I can't tell you how it felt on the bench. 

Q.  Can you talk about Javier's catch and how key that was? 

JAMIE MOYER:   Stan made a great catch.  I mean, it was a poor pitch, the location was poor.  Usually, not all the time, but usually when you make a bad pitch, it's hit over the fence.  You know, he stayed with the ball and he made a comment later on in the game that he felt that the ball seemed to be carrying a little bit to the outfield tonight, or to left field.  So he stayed with it and made a great catch. 

Q.  Can you talk about Bernie's homer and your capacity to put that out of your mind and bear down and shut them off thereafter? 

JAMIE MOYER:   Bernie is a good hitter.  Let me start off by saying that. He's a professional hitter.  He's hit me well at times.  I got behind  -- actually I started out and got ahead in the count and he worked the count to full.  I didn't like the way, the results that happened in the previous at-bat with Justice, where I walked him.  I really didn't have that thought in my mind at the time, you know, making that pitch.  I just, again, tried to force contact and he went out over the plate and hit the ball  -- off the bat, I didn't know if it was going to be a home run but then after Stan made the comment that he thought the ball was carrying to left field, it made sense. 

Q.  At what point in the game did you go inside?  Did you go in before the fifth and did you also go back inside in the sixth? 

JAMIE MOYER:   I had not gone in in the game at all tonight until the fifth inning.  It's a little game I play sometimes. 

Q.  Did you go back inside for the sixth, as well?

JAMIE MOYER:   No, I didn't. 

Q.  So you were on the bench when John Olerud hit the home run that led off the sixth? 

JAMIE MOYER:   No.  I was on the bench for five innings and the sixth inning when we scored the runs, that's when I was in the clubhouse. 

Q.  Did that shift momentum at that point; you had already tied it up, but to get your first lead of the series? 

JAMIE MOYER:   Well, again, even when we score runs at times, I feel like I try not to get caught up in the celebration or the guys talking in the dugout and things like that, whether I'm in the dugout or in the clubhouse, because I feel like I really need to try to stay focused on what my task is, and that's to go out and pitch and be effective.  So if we score one or two or five or whatever it is, I really try not to get caught up in that. My feeling is that after the game, I can shake hands and congratulate people and things like that.  But if I can stay focused on what I need to do, that's my responsibility. 

Q.  Conversely, you are two and a half games into the series at the point you go out of the dugout, now, what is going on in your mind as far as disappointment that nothing is happening at mid-game and the team has not really done anything for two and a half games? 

JAMIE MOYER:   I don't think I was really disappointed.  Again, I have played with these guys all year long.  I have seen us score a lot of runs, and really felt strongly that we were going to do something.  It was just a matter of putting a couple of hits together.  El Duque had been throwing the ball very well up until that point and it probably was not that he threw the ball very poorly at that point.  It was just we were able to get some hits and things fell our way.

Q.  You got sharper as you went deeper in the game.  Did your pitch selection change or were you just hitting your spots better? 

JAMIE MOYER:   Kind of like Game  5, I felt like once I got to the fourth inning, I got a second wind.  Why that is, I have no idea.  Just tried to focus on  -- tried to continue to focus on making good pitches. 

Q.  After Bernie's home run, what goes through your mind?  You don't show it, but is there anger or frustration at all?

JAMIE MOYER:   No.  He hit a pretty decent pitch.  If I throw that ball down the middle and he hits it out, I think I can be upset with myself for making a poor pitch, but I would probably make the same pitch again in that situation early in the game.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT