AL DIVISION SERIES: INDIANS v MARINERS
October 15, 2001
Jamie Moyer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  After they got the one run, you come back and strike out the side in the very next inning, what changed?

JAMIE MOYER:   For some reason I felt like in the fourth inning I got a second wind.  And I really -- I really don't know why or how that happened.  But I went out to the mound and I almost felt like we had scored a couple of runs in the bottom half of the inning, that was kind of the energy I had when I went out to the mound.  And I made some -- I thought I made some pretty decent pitches, and they chose not to swing.

Q.  Jamie, how much a part of your game do you think is frustration that guys get more and more frustrated when they --?

JAMIE MOYER:   That's a hard question for me to answer because I'm not the hitter.  Some guys get frustrated, but other guys don't.  I think the only thing I can play to is just trying to play to what I'm trying to do, and that's make my pitches, whether they're off speed or whether they're fastballs.  I don't know, I think the media makes more out of it than what it really is.

Q.  What can you say about the Seattle fans today and how imposing can 45,000 screaming fans be?

JAMIE MOYER:   That was exciting to be able to come home and play Game 5 here, and win the game, knowing that the fans were behind us and supporting us.  It's a big lift.

Q.  What does it mean to you personally after missing last year, to come back and win two games?

JAMIE MOYER:   It's exciting to be able to contribute.  I think the way we played all year long, everybody contributed, and everybody's continuing to contribute, and it's great to be a key factor in that contribution.

Q.  Jamie, you guys played all year, you proved a lot of stuff, but you never had a pressure situation.  The last two days you had nothing but pressure.  Can you talk about how you guys reacted to it?

JAMIE MOYER:   Well, I think it shows a little bit more of what we're made of.  You're right in your statement that we probably didn't go through any spells that we really had to win a game at any certain time.  But I think really this whole series, we got off to a -- lost the first game and came back and tied it up, and we go to Cleveland and we split.  Knowing that we're coming back home is a big plus for us, but being able to force the issue and knowing that the last two games have been win or go home.

Q.  Jamie, Lou talked about how many good fastball hitters they have.  Going in, do you throw more change-ups than usual?

JAMIE MOYER:   Not necessarily, not premeditated, no.  Again, I'm trying to read the reaction of the hitter, and I base a lot of my decisions off of that and go from there.  But there's times where you try to play a little cat and mouse game.  And I noticed at one point I changed two balls, and I think it was Jim's second at bat and he didn't want to look at the ball when I threw it home.  And for some reason hitters think it's a game I'm playing, and I'm just trying to exchange balls.  But if they want to play into it, I'll play with them, too.

Q.  Can you talk about the third inning, you got Alomar out pretty easily, and he seemed to have a rough game?

JAMIE MOYER:   Robbie is a pretty darned good hitter.  He's given me a lot of good at-bats over the course of our history when he was in Toronto and when he was in Baltimore and now in Cleveland.  I respect what he can do with a bat.  Fortunately I was able to get a couple of ground balls off of him and keep him at bay.  But the big thing for me is trying to make good pitches and force them to swing the bat.

Q.  Jamie, this is the first must-win game.  How alike and how different was it from other postseason games?

JAMIE MOYER:   I had a game like that in college, once (laughter.) You know, I really tried not to put any more pressure on myself with today's outing just like in Game 2 or any other game during the course of the season.  Again, you're in the Playoffs, it's icing on the cake.  And it should be fun.  And that's really the way I try to look at things and try to approach things.  At times when you -- you put pressure on yourself, before you know it you're doing things that you don't want to be doing.  So I think to really stay cognizant of what's going on around you and what you're thinking is really important. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT