NBA 2K LEAGUE DRAFT
April 4, 2018
Bryant Colon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Bryant Colon was selected by Pacers Gaming with the No. 13 overall pick in the 2018 NBA 2K League Draft. His gamer tag is WoLF.   
 Q.  How did you get so good in two years?  Everyone here is like 15 years, whole life.  
BRYANT COLON: I've just always been a gamer, like I enjoy all types of games, whether it be Battle Royale, Fortnite or H1Z1 or any sports games, so I just take gaming competitive, and I just ended up being really good at 2K.   
 Q.  Do you have any advice for people that want to go from casual to competitive?  
BRYANT COLON: Dedicate a lot of time and practice and find good people around you, surround yourself with people that have the same goals, and that will just bring you better results for sure.   
 Q.  You mentioned Fortnite and Battle Royale.  What's your other favorite game besides NBA 2K?  
BRYANT COLON: Fortnite and PUBG, yeah, definitely.   
 Q.  How are you at those?  
BRYANT COLON: Oh, great.  I think I'm an above-average player.  I enjoy winning and getting chicken dinners, so for sure.   
 Q.  We've heard a lot of gamers actually practiced NBA 2K for over a decade, over 10 years.  Since you've played for four years, how did you improve so much in such a short time?  
BRYANT COLON: Well, I dedicated a lot of time, like immense hours, so in that short span of four years, I've played a lot of games.   
 Q.  When do you sleep?  
BRYANT COLON: Yeah, exactly.  I do play a lot, but it paid off. I'm excited.   
 Q.  What conversations, if any, did you have with the Pacers going in, and did you have any indication that they were leaning your way?  
BRYANT COLON: Yeah, for sure.  I had a lot of interviews with Cody [Parrent], the manager.  We have a great relationship.  He really liked me.  I liked him.  I liked the organization, and I was excited to build a culture there for sure.   
 Q.  Being from New York, how does it feel to be drafted in Madison Square Garden?  
BRYANT COLON: Dream come true, man.  MSG is iconic.  Legends have played here.  It's surreal for sure.   
 Q.  How does your game fit in in the league?  A lot of point guards going early.  What do you bring that's going to make offset that and make your place?  
BRYANT COLON: I bring defense.  That's what I pride myself on.  I'm able to shut down those guys and allow my teammates to get extra possessions or whatever the case may be.  That's something I'm ready to bring to the Pacers for sure.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT