BARBASOL CHAMPIONSHIP
July 22, 2018
Cooper Musselman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What was what round like?  
COOPER MUSSELMAN: I mean, glad we finished.  Yeah, really glad we got it done.   
Didn't play that great, but I'm glad I don't have to come back tomorrow morning.   
 Q.  You were really close to not getting it done.  
COOPER MUSSELMAN: Yeah, I know.  On the 18th green they blew the horn.  Let the other group get up, and luckily it's (indiscernible) so we could finish the hole as well, so they could finish the hole as well.   
Yeah, glad we got it in.   
 Q.  What are you going to take away from this week?  A special memory?  Lesson learned?  
COOPER MUSSELMAN: Going to look at some stats, reevaluate some stuff where I can get better is probably the first thing I'm going to take away with it.   
Second thing is how blessed I am to have this opportunity.  Really fortunate to play in this event.  I love being in my home state.  Got a lot of support from friends and family and that was really special.   
That's the thing I'm going to remember the most about it, was probably the first tee shot, hear my name announced, and then hearing all my friends and family just giving me some support.  It was really awesome.   
 Q.  How tough was it to stop and start with the weather and all that?  
COOPER MUSSELMAN: Pretty frustrating, to be honest.  Once we stopped for the first time was about, I don't know, it was two and a half hours; we got to go out for 12 minutes, then we had to sit for another hour, which was kind of tough to take.   
But I was already tired as the day started, and that just made it even more.  Got a little unfocused on the last nine holes, but that's just something I'm going to have to learn to deal with.   
 Q.  With more rain on the course was it tougher to play?  Chip was saying some of the scoring holes the weather kind of affected those.  
COOPER MUSSELMAN: Yeah, for sure.  Like the first couple holes when I it was pouring, you know, you're used to hitting wedges and 9-irons into holes where I was hitting 6-irons and 5-irons.  That was definitely tough to adjust, which should just mean the scores are going to be higher the holes you played in the rain.   
So, yeah, at least I got some holes in when there wasn't any rain, so I have no complaints.   
 Q.  After the Kentucky Open what's next?  Just start thinking about qualifying school or are there other tournaments you're thinking about?  
COOPER MUSSELMAN: As of right now, I have to look at my schedule, but right now it's just, yeah, Kentucky Open and then just get ready for Q-School.  Just hope I'm peaking at the right time.   
 Q.  (Regarding Orlando.)  
COOPER MUSSELMAN: Yeah, yeah, I'm probably going to go to Q-School somewhere down south so I've got to get used to those grasses.  It's a little different from here.  Bermuda grass, bent grass.  Just get used to some bermuda, and then, yeah, just going to hunker down there for the winter.  It's a little warmer down there.   
 Q.  When are you moving?  
COOPER MUSSELMAN: Right now, August 10th.  Yeah, so pretty soon.   
 Q.  Do you have family down there or do you just plan on finding a place?  
COOPER MUSSELMAN: I have a -- I think I have a place lined upright now.  Luckily my dad has some connections with a course I'm going to play at.  He got that all hooked up for me.  Just going to hunker down there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT