U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 22, 2016
Min Woo Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Congratulations.
MIN WOO LEE: Thank you.
Q. Semifinals.  Got off to a hairy start there.
MIN WOO LEE: Yeah.  I had the opportunity to make a par or make a birdie and just didn't take it.  Me and Reed made a few mistakes, but we just switched it around and we double checked everything, triple checked, and it turned out well.
Q. I guess on 7 you made a mess.  Hit it in the water; tried to go for the green.
MIN WOO LEE: Yeah, I just thought yesterday I didn't hit it in the water, the day before I didn't hit it in the water.  I just tried to do the same thing but with a fade and pulled a little bit into the water.
I guess I had to go for it because he was down in the middle and he was going to make birdie or par.  I had to go for it.  Went with a shorter club and tried to knock it in.  Unfortunate there.
Q. Was there a turning point in the match, a point where you kind of got things going again?
MIN WOO LEE: I think it was on 11.  11 was -- I holed a putt from off the green, and that pretty much, yeah, put me up a gear.  I just kept going, and, yeah, turned out well.
Q. How far was the putt?
MIN WOO LEE: Probably ten foot left to right.
Q. Obviously getting done early again today after that match yesterday.
MIN WOO LEE: Yeah, exactly.  That's good.  I know, I know.  It's kind of like a cushion now.  I guess I've got to obviously play well into the next round, but yesterday was kind of like nerve wracking finishing and then playing the next round in the morning.
Yeah, it's good now.  Just got to focus and get into the final and try to win it.
Q. You know anything about Eugene Hong or Wei Wei Gao?
MIN WOO LEE: No, not Wei Wei.  I know Eugene is pretty straight and hits it good.  I don't know who I'm playing.  But I got to...
Q. Focus on your game?
MIN WOO LEE: Exactly.  I think I just focus on their game too much.  Like this match, like on the second hole, my game plan, I should have just done that instead of worry about someone else.
Just have to stick to my own game plan.  I'm playing great.  I think if I play well, I think it's hard for anyone to beat me.
Q. You carry the banner for Australia because Fred lost.
MIN WOO LEE: Yeah, that's unfortunate.  Yeah, I'm representing everyone at home.
Q. I saw your sister tweeted out.
MIN WOO LEE: Yeah, exactly.  That kind of just made me a bit happier.  Yeah, it's good of her.  Middle of the round I'm like, she lost, so please don't lose.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT