US OPEN
September 5, 1997
Jackie Trail
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JACKIE TRAIL: This is the biggest tournament I ever played in in my life, and, I mean,
I'm just lucky just to be in the draw. I won the 18 Nationals, and that got me into this
tournament, where I could get into the tournament. Before I won the Nationals, I couldn't
have probably even gotten in the tournament. I got a wildcard from winning the tournament.
Just, I mean, I knew I could do this good before the tournament. It's just I had to stay
focused in. I've been here for like two and a half weeks, and I'm really used to the area
here. I mean, I've had a great time this past two and a half weeks.
JACKIE TRAIL: Yeah, that's what I've been trying to do this whole time, is just like
not worry about like Martina Hingis standing right next to you, like Pete Sampras is
behind you, just play like it's a normal tournament. That's really the thing that you have
to concentrate on in these big tournaments, just play like it's any other match.
JACKIE TRAIL: No, I've never got to talk to them or anything. I mean, I've seen most
all of them, but I've never talked to them.
JACKIE TRAIL: Monica Seles. I like the way she always goes all out and hits the ball
really hard. She's just real aggressive player. And I like Jimmy Connors, too, but I
haven't seen him.
JACKIE TRAIL: Well, my goals are to get to play the four Grand Slams, like the
Australian, French and Wimbledon. I've never gotten to play in any of those. I mean, just
travel over there and then do good are my goals for next year.
JACKIE TRAIL: I hope so. She won the French Open.
JACKIE TRAIL: I don't think they're that much better. I mean, the Americans just play a
different style of game. The Europeans are loopier and they grew up on clay. I think like
we have plenty of players who beat the top European players. I mean, probably in the US,
we have the most talent of anywhere in the world.
JACKIE TRAIL: I think a lot of people have looked at my game since I won Nationals, and
just changed their opinion of it. I think that there will be a lot of players maybe
playing like me in the future. Instead of that loopy game, I never really liked the loopy
game because, I mean, a real flat game you can just take charge. With the loopy game, you
have to like lay back and hit more balls in the court. You're more likely to get tired
that way.
JACKIE TRAIL: Either Tara Black or I forgot who she plays. She's the No. 1 seed.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT