US OPEN
September 3, 1997
Jackie Trail
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You were down a match point in the tiebreak, weren't you?

JACKIE TRAIL: Yeah.

Q. Didn't get a chance to see it? What happened? How did you fight it off?

JACKIE TRAIL: I served, she missed the return. She kind of shanked it off her racquet.
I was just thinking, just get my first serve in. I think during the points, I thought if I
could get it going, I had the better chance.

Q. Shortly after your win a couple days ago, the USTA called a press conference and
wanted to talk about your situation. They spoke about you in glowing terms. You were
called one of the elite players on the horizon. Are you familiar with what was said at
that press conference?

JACKIE TRAIL: Huh-uh. I wasn't there. All I knew, I just saw that one quote in the
paper. That's about it. That's all I know.

Q. There was a clear intimation that you very probably would be on the '98 Junior
Development Team.

JACKIE TRAIL: Yes.

Q. Does that make you feel better about the USTA situation now?

JACKIE TRAIL: It makes me kind of have mixed emotions. You know, I want to be on there
for the support, just to go over to Wimbledon and stuff. I mean, it would be good to get
on there. But, I mean, it's not for sure yet. She says, but she said that before, like
I've had a good chance of being on the national team. I mean, stuff can change like that.

Q. Jackie, how do you compare playing in the main draw and the Juniors? Seems like
you've had some challenging matches in both.

JACKIE TRAIL: I think the Juniors are almost as tough as the majors. Most of the
Juniors can give the pros good matches, probably even beat them. I think the difference
between the two levels are maybe the concentration, the experience playing in front of
crowds, and just the concentration. Like the Juniors, I notice that they just maybe miss a
little bit more return of serves, maybe a few more errors.

Q. If you are invited to participate on the junior development people, will you insist
on playing the game that you've learned to play, you were coached at Palmer, you grip the
racquet the way you want to grip it? Is that in the back of your mind?

JACKIE TRAIL: Nobody's going to change my game. I've won the way I've played. I mean,
if it's not broke, don't fix it. I just can't change my grip and take that big of a risk.
I've already done that good with this game; I don't want to change it. I'd feel too
uncomfortable.

Q. If you were a coach and you were looking at a player who is maybe not as tall as you
want them to be, just reversing the roles, do you think that maybe you might have looked
at another Jackie Trail and said, "I just don't think she's going to make it"?

JACKIE TRAIL: No. I would have looked at the results, you know. Doesn't matter what
game style you play; just the results is what counts; just the guts that you have in you.
I mean, the inside is the bigger part, I think, than what's on the outside, you know. You
just can't make stupid errors. I mean, the inside is what counts more. I think just hold
the racquet any way you feel. I really wouldn't worry about what their grips are or
anything.

Q. Where do your guts come from? 

JACKIE TRAIL: I don't know. I've been like that all my life. I don't know. It's just, I
guess, my personality. I don't know.

Q. Can you talk a little bit about today, being in a tiebreak and you had to come back
at the end? What was that experience like? How were you feeling out there?

JACKIE TRAIL: She had a big serve. I was just trying to get her serve back. I had
trouble returning her serve. I just really was happy to break at I think it was to make it
4-All. I mean, that gave me a lot of confidence, that game when I broke her serve. Because
she started out the match, she broke me -- I mean, the set, the third set, she broke me.
After that, I was just trying to hold my serve because I knew she had a big serve. Her
serve's really tough.

Q. Jackie, how many matches in a row have you won in junior tournaments now?

JACKIE TRAIL: Let's see. I won my section and then I won national claycourts, then I
won the Nationals. This will make probably 23 matches, I guess.

Q. In a row?

JACKIE TRAIL: Yeah.

Q. How does that sound?

JACKIE TRAIL: That's pretty good. I mean, I think a lot of people just don't realize
that. It's tough to win just any match.

Q. Are you still feeling fresh?

JACKIE TRAIL: Yeah.

Q. Or tired?

JACKIE TRAIL: Yes, I'm feeling pretty good. This is my 18th day here, 16th. I mean, I'm
feeling really good. I've gotten used to the area good. I mean, I know my way around.
Before, I had no idea where to go.

Q. Jackie, talk about how you selected to go to the Palmer academy. Are you going back
there this year?

JACKIE TRAIL: Yes, I'm going back there this year. How I chose it is that my school
last year, they wouldn't let me miss because like some people were complaining, you know,
that I was missing, and they wanted to miss. They really didn't understand the situation.
They told me that I had to be at school full-time. So the first two weeks I went
home-schooling. Then I found out the NCAA won't accept home-schooling studies, so I just
started looking at academies I knew the head coach down there, Curly Davis at that time,
he was from Kentucky. We were pretty good friends. That's mainly the reason why I came
down there, because I knew him real good. I knew him since I was about eight years old.

Q. Two years of high school left, Jackie?

JACKIE TRAIL: I'm going to be a junior.

Q. Is college an option for you at this point?

JACKIE TRAIL: Yeah. It's still a tough decision to make right now. I've still got two
more years. Anything can happen. But right now, college is the thing. But, I mean, maybe
turn pro. I'm really undecided, not sure what I'm going to do.

Q. What fun things are there to do in Paducah, Kentucky?

JACKIE TRAIL: Well, there's not that much. There's a mall. There's hardly anything to
do.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT