US OPEN
August 28, 1997
Jackie Trail
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Can we assume this was your first US Open? 
 
 JACKIE TRAIL: Yeah. I played in the Juniors before two years. This is my first. 
 
Q. The experience here was?
 
 JACKIE TRAIL: It's something I'll never forget. It's one of the biggest -- it's the
biggest tournament I played in my life. The experience is going to help me a lot. It's
just something that not everybody gets to experience. 
 
Q. Is this the type of a springboard that you were hoping to get here?
 
 JACKIE TRAIL: Well, I was two points away from winning that match in the second set. It
just could have gone either way. The girl's good. If she could have just made a couple
more errors, at any time it could have gone either way. 
 
Q. Can you talk about that third set a little bit? It kind of went back and forth quite
a bit.
 
 JACKIE TRAIL: Like I said, the third set could have gone either way. There was a couple
calls there that were called, that was a real important point, but it shouldn't have
affected the match. It was really close. 
 
Q. Did it affect you at all?
 
 JACKIE TRAIL: A little bit. I was thinking about it, but it shouldn't have. 
 
Q. Jackie, how do you feel now about next week? You're playing the Juniors also?
 
 JACKIE TRAIL: I think none of the Juniors have played on these courts so far. It's been
a real help here. I've been here about two weeks when the Juniors start. That's a big
advantage to me. 
 
Q. How do you expect to do?
 
 JACKIE TRAIL: Well, you never know. The Juniors, some of them will do good in the pros.
Like the Juniors are almost as tough as the pros almost. 
 
Q. Did you meet your expectations here?
 
 JACKIE TRAIL: Yeah. I think that I could have won that match, you know, but I knew that
if I played good, anything could happen. Just went out there and gave it my best shot.
With anybody here, it's just so close level, anything can happen. 
 
Q. Jackie, how do you feel about the state of teenage tennis in general? A lot of
people have asked the question to know where the next American player is coming from. You
just won the National Championship. How do you feel about your class of people coming up?
 
 JACKIE TRAIL: There's a lot of Juniors coming up that's young. There's a lot of young
girls that can compete with Hingis, like with anybody that can compete with anybody.
There's a lot of talent in the young girls Tour. I think in the future, there will be more
younger girls. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT