ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 1, 2009
Jorge Torres
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How was that first marathon? 
 JORGE TORRES: How do I look? 

 Q. You look like you are made of wood. 
 JORGE TORRES: It was a great first experience. You know, as a competitor, of course I'm happy for Meb because that's where I want to be. But for me, for my first experience, you know, I hope that one of these days I'm right where Meb was today. You know, it took him a while to really nail it, and for me to just run. I think it was a pretty good performance for the first time. 
 Finishing seventh overall and third American, you know, I can't ask for -- I could ask for a little bit better performance, but it's about a solid time, solid place and a good experience.

 Q. Because we were running around down here and didn't get to see but the last five miles. Can you take us through when the pack started to move on First Avenue? 
 JORGE TORRES: I was probably in the lead pack all the way until the first half. Of course, I knew that they were going to hammer that first mile, mile and a half, that long straightaway the first time. Sure enough, as soon as we came off the bridge, as soon as Ramaala pulled up and took off. I don't know what the split was, but I just tried to -- I tried to hang in the back of the pack and just hung out as long as I could. At one point a mile and a half down First Avenue I just let the pack go, because I didn't have the wheels to turn it over that fast. 
 Abdi was just a little bit ahead of me, probably about 200 or 300 meters ahead of me, all the way until I finally caught him at the 24 or 23 and a half mile mark straight before we entered the park: 
 I passed him up, and I passed up another two people after that. Coming down the home stretch, I just finished up seventh. I really didn't know how much of a lead I had over the person behind me, but I was still -- my legs were still rolling at a good pace, like 25, 20, so I never really hit the wall, but I did slow up. When I hit the wall, I thought I was going to be running like six times. So that never happened, so I guess I'm grateful for that?

 Q. 26 miles, New York City, talk about the overall experience?
 JORGE TORRES: Wow, coming down the home stretch, it just the atmosphere is just unbelievable. The fans here are lined up with like 2 million plus people all along the course. Especially as they get closer to the park, the louder it gets. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT