NBA DRAFT
June 27, 2013
Gorgui Dieng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 GORGUI DIENG
  Utah, No. 21
  (Traded to Minnesota) 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Please make an opening statement, feelings about ending up with Minnesota.   
GORGUI DIENG:   I just finally got traded to Minnesota.   But I'm very excited that I got drafted because a lot of people want to be in my shoes today.   I'm very lucky and blessed to be here.   
   
 Q.   Tell us about your journey here.   Where you come from in terms of and where you ended up now.   Do you have any plans or ambition to take advantage of the situation and do some type of life‑long dreams or whatever?   
GORGUI DIENG:   Coming from Senegal, start playing basketball six years ago.   And today just get drafted.   I think I just opened another chapter in my book.   I know I had a long way to go.   I want to play a game in the NBA now.   So I'm just trying to keep working right now and get drafted wasn't my goal.   I just get drafted, but that's not my goal.   My goal is like playing ten or 15 years in the NBA.   That's what I'm all about.   
   
 Q.   Talk about what do you bring to the table in Minnesota, like in your game, your skill set, what are your strengths and everything?   
GORGUI DIENG:   You know, if somebody, like, knows my game, I'm very competitive.   I just play hard and I just do whatever that the coach want me to do.   That's how Coach P taught me how to play the game.   "Listen to your coach and try to please him."   I think if I go to Minnesota I can learn‑‑ they have veterans up there.   I can learn from them.   Some day I will become a great basketball player.   
   
 Q.   Talk about how much you have watched and studied power forward Kevin Love and how your game at center might complement him.   
GORGUI DIENG:   He's tough.   He's tough.   He's just a guy that can do almost everything.   And I'm very excited to go play with him on the same team.   I will get a chance to learn a lot of things with him.   And he's one of the best in the league right now.   And he's a great basketball player.   
So I'm very excited to go work with him.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the emotions finding out you've been traded and how you found out and what goes through your mind.   
GORGUI DIENG:   I just got prepared before the draft.   That can happen all the time.   When I heard I got traded, I just gave the hat to somebody else and put another one on.   That's what it is.   
   
 Q.   How does playing under a coach who has coached at the NBA level, how does he help you prepare to play in the NBA?   
GORGUI DIENG:   Yeah, he just taught me a lot of things.   He tells me stories all the time like when he was with the Knicks, when he was at Boston.   He just prepared you mentally and physically.   And I feel very lucky to have somebody like Coach Pitino.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT