THE NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 24, 2000
Naree Wongluekiet
Aree Wongluekiet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Girls, when was last time you beat your sister by 11 shots? 

AREE WONGLUEKIET: I don't really keep track of that, but quite a long time ago, I
think. Not recently. 

Q. (Inaudible)?

AREE WONGLUEKIET: Fairways and greens. Hit a lot of fairways and a lot of greens and
made some putts. 

Q. Naree, I'm sure you're disappointed but are you at the same time happy for your
sister? 

NAREE WONGLUEKIET: I'm very happy for my sister. I'll definitely watch her play the
next two days. I think she's having a blast right now. I tried my best, that's all I can
do. 

Q. Was there anything in particular, did the nerves get to you?

NAREE WONGLUEKIET: No. I wasn't nervous out there today. From No. 6 on, I just
struggled very poorly. I didn't hole any putts. I hit the ball better than yesterday, but
I just couldn't score today. 

Q. Aree, how do you like all the attention? You know, you're very popular with the
fans, autographs, pictures, how do you like that? 

AREE WONGLUEKIET: I think I enjoy that. I feel like I sort of somewhat earned it for my
hard work. Yeah, I enjoy the attention. 

Q. Did you expect to make the cut? 

AREE WONGLUEKIET: Yes, I sort of expected to make the cut. Originally it was one of my
goals, so, yeah, I'm pretty happy. 

Q. On 16 green you were standing over a putt which would have tied you for 6 if you had
dropped that. What was going through your mind at that point? 

AREE WONGLUEKIET: I didn't really look at the leaderboard, so I didn't really know
that. But I know if I would have holed that putt, it would have been great, but I didn't,
so -- but I tried my best, so I can't really say anything about that. 

Q. Are you on vacation?

AREE WONGLUEKIET: Yeah, I'm missing a week of school. 

Q. Did you bring your books with you?

AREE WONGLUEKIET: Yeah, I've finished some of my homework now. 

Q. Do you have a game plan for the rest of the round, how to play?

AREE WONGLUEKIET: I think it's pretty much like the way I played today. I'm happy with
the way I played today. Just kind of keep hitting fairways and greens and hoping some
putts will go in. 

Q. On 13 today, Aree, you had a little bit of a miscue there. Is that something that
you're going to learn from now? You kind of played a little aggressive there, would you
say? 

AREE WONGLUEKIET: Yeah, sure. I probably -- yeah. You know, I've seen a lot of rough on
that hole, so next time I get in that situation, I will probably punch out, hit the
fairway and try to work my ball from there. Yeah, I'll definitely learn from that. 

Q. You're only 13 and you're on tour here and everything, how are you dealing with all
the pressure because even though you might be smiling, 13-year-olds don't come out here
every day. 

AREE WONGLUEKIET: I think on the first tee I get a little nervous, but when I'm out
there, I don't think about anything else except just playing my game and sticking to my
game plan and just hitting shots .
NAREE WONGLUEKIET: Well, it's just like a blur of colors when I'm out there on the
course. I focus on my game, and that's all I think about. 

Q. You said you have homework to do. What kind of homework are you doing while you're
here this week? 

AREE WONGLUEKIET: Math homework, English. Math is Algebra I, English and Spanish,
science, just the normal subject, homeworks. 

Q. How did you determine who was going to get your brother to caddie for you? How did
you decide? 

AREE WONGLUEKIET: Well, my brother tried to caddie for her in the Korean Open before,
and I don't think they got along very well. So he's trying me this time. Yeah, he's a
great caddie. 

Q. Aree, would you describe -- would you describe the way you played the 13th hole?
What did you do and what did you do to get out of trouble? 

AREE WONGLUEKIET: I didn't hit a great drive. I pushed it to the right and ended up
behind a tree. Couldn't really -- had a backswing, but didn't really have a
follow-through. I thought maybe if I could swing harder and I didn't stop on the way
through, I could probably punch out to the fairway which is only 45 yards in front of me,
but unfortunately pulled it a little bit and got stuck in that tree and dropped straight
down into the thicker rough. From there, I tried to hit a cut, maybe getting a chance at
rolling up into the green, but that didn't happen, either. So kept from rough to rough and
just kept going on from there. But I'll learn from that. 

Q. Was your caddie telling you to punch out?

AREE WONGLUEKIET: Not really. No. 

Q. He wasn't trying to get you to punch out? 

AREE WONGLUEKIET: No. 

Q. You made a pretty good putt there just for double-bogey. How long was that putt? 

AREE WONGLUEKIET: Probably like 6-footer. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT