UNITED AIRLINES NYC HALF
March 15, 2015
Andrew Bumbalough
Meb Keflezighi
Dathan Ritzenhein
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   You guys just make an opening comment about today, and we'll open it up. 
DATHAN RITZENHEIN:   13 miles of fun today.   It was definitely a challenge.   I felt a little bit tired, a little bit lethargic. 
Sometimes when you're training for a marathon, you don't feel as good in the half marathon.   Today was kind of one of those days.   Just felt like it was a grind out there. 
I was happy with it.   Training has gone good.   So just to come out and have a good strong performance on a great course, great‑‑ every time I come to New York City, it's awesome.   The feeling of popping out of the park right at six miles is just the greatest feeling coming up into Times Square. 
So I was happy in general.   It was just a good, solid race. 
ANDREW BUMBALOUGH:   Yeah, this is my first half marathon, first serious road race really.   I've run a couple of 5Ks on the road, but it was a really cool experience.   The park definitely is incredibly challenging.   There are moments where I felt like I was really kind of breathing a lot harder than I wanted to at that point in the race because it's still very early, but just trying to kind of manage those little moves that happen. 
Yeah, like Dathan said, as soon as you pop out of the park and you're running down toward Times Square, it feels great.   You're kind of relieved because you know most of the hills are over, and you're going to get kind of some nice flat running. 
I felt like I was able to kind of manage my energy pretty well.   It was a great experience.   It was really fun.   I was pretty happy with the way I was able to finish up. 
MEB KEFLEZIGHI:   It's always a pleasure to be in New York and compete in a field environment in the area, the excitement.   Whoever would have thought ten years ago, inaugural, was second, and still to be mixing it up in there somewhat. 
Today was good weather.   It was a little bit different than what we anticipated, I think.   The wind going to West Highway, because I was kind of saving my energy trying to go there and to make one move, but then the wind was there in the face. 
It was a grind.   It was good.   I think the top four guys kind of separated themselves early against the wind and then kind of went along with the big groups, with these guys and Wesley Korir and Kevin. 
It was just nice to be out there.   Definitely different than last year, where we were freezing our butts off.   This was a little more pleasant.   But at the same time, I felt it was good for me.   I'm healthy.   Came out of it healthy.   Just the pace was fine.   I could have gone for a while at that pace. 
But once they made that surge and made the move, it was a little bit difficult.   But I know what I need to do and get ready in about a month, go back out to the training, and hopefully give it a good shot in Boston.

Q.   Can you, any of you, all of you, talk a little bit more about the wind, where it was good for you, where it was bad for you. 
DATHAN RITZENHEIN:   Yeah, actually, I thought it was going to be a really fast day because we were really aggressive early on through the hilliest part.   So I was thinking we were going to pop out of the park, and that wind was going to be at our back, and it was going to be a really fast day. 
It was a big surprise to have it coming in your face then the second half.   It just shows that anybody can be a weatherman because I didn't think they were calling for that. 
It was a surprise, but it's just one of those things you adapt to.   You just get back in the race and check‑‑ the time didn't matter at that point. 
MEB KEFLEZIGHI:   I think it was Seventh Avenue, when you get there, just kind of know when you're going to make a right on 42nd.   Seventh Avenue was a little bit windy, but really tough was 42nd.   And then all of a sudden, okay, just hang on.   I tried to get away, tried to make a move there, but it really was tough. 
Then okay, we'll have the wind at our back on West Highway, but definitely that wasn't.   Then like Dathan said, just time to go out and try to compete and get to that finish line as comfortable as I want and as fast as you can. 
ANDREW BUMBALOUGH:   I felt like for me, as the rookie out there, I was looking at these two guys trying to see what was going to happen.   When we turned onto 42nd, it was like just wind at your face.   I knew that would probably be the case.   I kept waiting for the big move to come on West Highway, but when we turned onto the West Highway, it was like, no, this isn't happening because the wind is too much. 
I feel like it definitely affected things out there.   Yeah, I just tried to kind of‑‑ I got into track mode of just kind of tucking in and just trying to race it like that.

Q.   Andrew, it's your debut half.   It seemed like you guys had a great American pack going there.   You just said you relied on the other guys to kind of take you through the race.   Can you just elaborate on your first experience at the distance and overall thoughts. 
ANDREW BUMBALOUGH:   Yeah, like I said, I felt like the first six or so miles were very challenging.   I guess I didn't realize how fast we were running.   I wasn't really trying to pay attention at all to the time.   I was just trying to compete. 
I feel like, yeah, it was one of those situations where I was just trying to kind of key off of the guys that I felt like I could run with.   These two are veterans, like they're road warriors, like they know what they're doing.   I felt like, if I kind of followed in their place, I would have a good day at least.   So I was just going to try to stay with them as long as I could. 
I don't know, just kind of got into track mode, like I said, and just tried to tuck in and bide my time and just see what happened.

Q.   Meb, 62 minutes today.   Obviously, it's hard to know with true training where exactly your shape is up.   Given today's race is kind of behind you, could you assess whereabouts your shape is heading into Boston as opposed to last year, how it compares. 
MEB KEFLEZIGHI:   Every year is different.   I think I'm healthy, and trainings have been solid.   It's just, like I said, the turnover is important but not that important for a marathon.   Definitely, that was the difference. 
Going Seventh Avenue today, they just made a little bit of a surge, and kind of separation happens.   It's like why can't I hang out with them and be able to just go with them?   But it's like a turnover.   I've been putting a lot of miles in.   I already have covered up to 27 miles.   That's marathon.   Hopefully, peak period is April 20th.   Hopefully, I can get it all together. 
But I always want to win.   That doesn't always mean first place, but getting the best out of yourself.   Each day you come in to try to win, and you know that's not going to happen.   So you try to fight for every spot you can.   You kind of count heads, how many people are there.   Then okay, within this group, how I can finish.   The second group was pretty big.   Then it's like, okay, maybe I could be second or first or third of this group. 
So just keep challenging yourself, set new goals, and then get to that finish line.

Q.   Meb, you're about to turn 40 pretty soon.   To some athletes, 40 has been a barrier.   Their performance fell way off for some reason or other.   Guys like Bernard Lagat just kept running through it.   What are we going to see from you?   Which type of runner are you going to be when you turn 40? 
MEB KEFLEZIGHI:   Hopefully, I'll get a post‑cheer for 40 years old soon.   May 5th is coming up.   Even I come to this race, and people are like, are you pacing, or are you competing?   As soon as I hit 40, that pressure to win is going to be off my shoulders. 
I'm just excited to be part of the sport.   I think the sport has an amazing thing in my journey and in my life.   Hopefully, my goals have been accomplished and fulfilled with the topping with a Boston win.   If I finish 8th today, you know what, I'm okay with it.   If I finish 15th in Boston, I'm okay with it. 
But I'm a competitive guy.   I like to compete.   2016 is around the corner.   See if I could make my fourth Olympic team.   That's the goal.   Am I going to do a fourth marathon or not?   That's another question.   If I can make it at 40, the Olympic team, and compete at 41, that would be a huge story.   I hope to do personally for me. 
Any time you get an opportunity to represent your country, it's a huge honor.   My daughter is 5.   She doesn't remember London.   So hopefully, she'll remember if I go to Rio. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT