STANFORD UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 17, 2019
Jack West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
UCLA -34, Stanford - 16   
JACK WEST: Gotta play better. At the end of the day I've got to put my team in better situations especially on second and third down, more manageable downs.   
 Q.  How is the communication for the offensive line? I know so many guys are filling in right now. Do you feel that that's been a struggle or do you feel that you guys made some strides?  
JACK WEST: Coach Pritchard and Coach Shaw and Coach (indiscernible) are huge on communication. That's one of our main goals every week is to communicate clearly. And that's a big part of our offense, as much as we check at the line of scrimmage.   
So at the end of the day I think we communicated well. But tonight it just came down to execution, which is what we didn't do well enough.   
 Q.  You guys have a really strong first drive, a field goal, kind of tough going after that. Is there anything that changed after that first drive?  
JACK WEST: I think it just comes down to me playing better and putting us in more manageable downs and distances. And there's a lot to learn from, which I will do. But, yeah, to answer your question, it's just getting us into more manageable, second and third downs, nothing behind the sticks as much after first down.   
 Q.  Do you expect them to come after you as aggressively as they did (indiscernible) start?  
JACK WEST: It's something -- it's something you always prepare for. And I felt like we had a good plan in. But it's me making the first start. So we weren't surprised by it. It was more so, like I said, we just didn't execute when we needed to. And at the end of the day that's what we've got to do to win the ballgame.   
 Q.  What changes when you're the starter, when you're the guy? What sort of things change? How do you approach things? How are things different out there?  
JACK WEST: So, I guess, number one, for me personally I'm always preparing to be the guy every week. Every time I get a rep in practice, I'm doing it as if I'm the guy. This week happened to be that week.   
And as far as the game goes, obviously there's nothing like game experience. I've gotten to play a little bit here and a little bit last year and last week against Washington.   
But there's nothing quite like going out there and getting a start and -- so, like I said, it's something to learn from tonight. And I will and I'll get better from it.   
 Q.  What kind of support do you get on the sidelines from K.J. and Davis?  
JACK WEST: They're always so supportive, even -- no matter who's in there, they're huge, especially when we're trying to see the defense and what they're doing, coming off on the sideline, communicating and seeing what kind of adjustments they're making. But they've always been so supportive of me as I am of them.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT