WNBA ALL-STAR GAME
July 15, 2007
Delisha Milton-Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Okay, we have DeLisha.  DeLisha will make an opening statement and we'll follow that with question and answer.   
 DELISHA MILTON-JONES:  I feel like the game was a great game tonight.  No one got hurt, thank God.  And I think it was good for the fans.  I'm so glad to see the city of D.C.  supporting the WNBA like they have.   
 This league is just filled with a lot of awesome women, beautiful and talented.  And it's just great to be able to be here and participate in such a tremendous event.  I'm so glad that it was here in D.C. because I didn't have to go far, didn't have to take a flight, and I was in my own backyard, and everything just felt comfortable.   
 And I think the fans did a great job of helping me out with my butterflies and my jitters.  Because it's been a long time since I've experienced something like this.   
  
  Q.  How exciting is it to play before a sellout crowd?   
 DELISHA MILTON-JONES:  It's an awesome feeling.  Awesome, awesome feeling.  That's why I said to the crowd before the game, "I want to see you back here on Wednesday," because they really are our sixth man.  There are moments in the games where your momentum has shifted and your energy is low, well, that's when the crowd can step in and really help you or push you towards a win.  So it's going to be vital for us to have them in this gym and have this gym packed on Wednesday.   
  
  Q.  You came out on fire, you had a great, great game.  I mean, it was anybody's MVP this evening.  You know, how did it feel to be out there?  You came off a couple of injuries.  You're back here at the All-Star Game, once again, two-time All-Star, having a fabulous season.  Talk a little bit about that.   
 DELISHA MILTON-JONES:  Well, you know, I've only known hard times in my life.  And I know how to bounce back from things.  I feel like I'm very resilient.  I have to thank my grandmother and my mother for that.  They showed me what perseverance was.  And coming back from injuries is never easy, but when you're really focused on obtaining a goal, the injuries don't matter.  The rehab doesn't matter.  And from my ACL injury, that probably was the hardest thing I ever had to do in my life, because it happened late in my career.  But I fought through it, I'm here, celebrating at an All-Star Game that I thought was a complete surprise to me this year, because for myself, I felt like my play was rather inconsistent.  Even though my numbers were up, it was inconsistent.  But the coaches saw different, and I think it was a great thing for them to vote me in.  It shows me that your work has not gone undone, and I really appreciate that.  Thank you.   
 THE MODERATOR:  DeLisha, thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT