ROSE BOWL GAME: USC VS PENN STATE
December 28, 2016
Evan Schwan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How are you liking California so far?  
EVAN SCHWAN: I love it.  The weather is beautiful.  It's nice and warm.  It's a lot better than Pennsylvania, that's for sure.  It's frigid there.   
 Q.  On the job you have to do to stop Sam who's obviously had a great season, what sort of challenges does a guy like that present?  
EVAN SCHWAN: You know, he's a guy that can do a lot of things, but they have a lot of guys that do that.  It's just going to come down to playing sound defense, you know, coming back to our fundamentals.  That's something that Coach Franklin and our defensive coaches have emphasized that a lot of times in bowl games with the time off that guys get, they can be a little lax in their tackling and just fundamentals in general.  So we kind of had to come back to that in preparation for this game, and it's something that we're going to have to focus on.   
 Q.  Does he remind you of anybody you guys have faced this year just in terms of his style?  
EVAN SCHWAN: Um, no one in particular.  I'd just say that throughout this whole season, we've played a lot of guys like him who can do a lot of things and are special.  We're just going to have to game plan accordingly.   
 Q.  Also about Koa Farmer, what stands out to you about what he brings to the table for you?  
EVAN SCHWAN: Koa brings a lot of -- he brings depth.  Always has a good attitude at practice.  He's been a guy who can play a lot and sometimes he doesn't play a lot, but he always has a positive attitude.  But he's fast, and he plays physical.  He was a track star in high school, and so with all that and his speed, it definitely brings a new element to our defense.   
 Q.  I know it's an exciting week and everything, but you guys are going to be without two of your key players on offense and defense.  How are you guys reacting to that?  
EVAN SCHWAN: Just next-man-up mentality.  It's something that we've dealt with, adversity, all year, and especially early in the year against Michigan.  Whenever we had Jason and B-Bell down, it's just going to be young guys stepping up and making plays.   
 Q.  Do you feel like linebacker is a position you guys are particularly able to adjust because that's been such a theme all year, guys being hurt?  
EVAN SCHWAN: Yeah.  Like I said earlier in the season, especially against Michigan and Minnesota a little bit, we've established depth because of guys that had to step up and play.  So the fact that we're in this situation that we are, however unfortunate it is, it's next-man-up mentality.   
 Q.  Just switching gears, this season you guys have already accomplished so much, more than anybody expected, so you obviously you want to win this game, but what do you feel like you have to do?  
EVAN SCHWAN: Yeah, it's been a long season.  We've made it here, and there's still people that are doubting us, calling the season a fluke season.  Winning 11 games isn't a fluke.  Winning the Big Ten Championship and being down by 21 points going into half against a really good Wisconsin team and coming back and winning, that's not a fluke.  You know, what do we have to prove?  That Penn State is back.   
 Q.  How good does it feel to have one of your brothers here and coming back for next season, people already coming back for the future?  
EVAN SCHWAN: Yeah, even though I'm graduating and I'm moving on, I know, and I have 100-percent confidence in them, that they're going to take this team and take it in the right direction, and that's where it's headed right now.   
 Q.  As one of the leaders on this team, was it a little disappointing to see a couple of guys not being able to play in the game?  
EVAN SCHWAN: Yeah, it's something that -- it's not weighing too heavy on me, but at the same time I'd like to see those guys out there.  It's unfortunate, but next-man-up mentality is our mindset.   
 Q.  And you guys have been through adversity this year at that position, too, linebacker.  How does that maybe help you in a situation like this?  
EVAN SCHWAN: Yeah, earlier in the season we had to establish depth because of injuries that we've had, and just losing those guys, it's almost just like guys getting banged up not being able to play.  So really just next-man-up mentality, and some young guys are going to have to come in and make some plays.   
 Q.  You mentioned at the Media Day that you were out here when Purdue played in the Rose Bowl.  What's it going to be like for you playing in the game after having watched a game like that?  
EVAN SCHWAN: It's going to be really cool.  Actually when I was home for break for Christmas, my mom was pulling out a bunch of pictures of hey, this is us at the Rose Bowl kind of thing, so 16 years later, to be able to play in such a prestigious game, "The Granddaddy of Them All", it's such an honor.  I'm honored to be with my team out here and play one last game.   
 Q.  What has your dad said to you about this moment?  He didn't play in a Rose Bowl but he played for some pretty good Purdue teams back in the day.  
EVAN SCHWAN: Yeah, when we were at home he was just kind of reminiscing about everything.  He doesn't get too serious or anything like that, just trying to motivate me and just telling me to do the best I can, and this is definitely a game that a lot of people are going to watch just because Penn State and USC are in my opinion the two hottest teams in college football right now just because of the win streaks that we've had.   
 Q.  Obviously USC's quarterback, Sam will be quite a challenge for you guys.  What have you seen from him so far that makes him difficult?  
EVAN SCHWAN: Yeah, watching film, he's good on his feet, mobile.  He has a really good arm, as well, and that's something that we're going to have to just kind of address.  It's something that we've seen.  We've seen quarterbacks that have been good and have been able to do things that he can do, especially J.T. Barrett at Ohio State as an example of a guy that I would kind of compare him to.  But we're just going to have to get a good rush.  Everything is going to start up front for us, especially with their big, physical offensive line.   
 Q.  Sam has been really good at just extending plays with his feet.  What kind of stress does that put on a defense knowing that he can either run it or roll out and pass it?  
EVAN SCHWAN: Yeah, extending plays, it's -- like I said, it's going to be up to the front four, the defensive line, to contain him and make sure that he's uncomfortable in the pocket and make sure that he can't extend plays.   
 Q.  You guys have been really good at kind of coming back in the second half.  How do you kind of start fast, as well?  
EVAN SCHWAN: Yeah, that's something that we've tried to kind of figure out throughout the entire year.  Honestly, I don't have an answer as to why we always come out stronger in the second half.  We don't change our game plan.  Guys don't do anything special.  I don't know what it is.  I think just everyone kind of realizes what's on the line, and we all just come together as a team and just rally around each other and go out and play.   
 Q.  It's not necessarily a great situation to be in, to be in a deficit in the second half, but knowing that you've been there and come back and won, does that give you guys a calming feeling if you are in that situation you can handle it?  
EVAN SCHWAN: Yeah, absolutely.  Obviously going into a half, especially in a game like the Big Ten Championship, it's like, okay, we're down, but it's just -- we rally around each other, and that's something that we've tried to do is just act like, play like you're losing the entire game, and I think that that's contributed to the success that we've had.   
 Q.  The USC offense is one of the best in the country kind of like yours.  What impresses you from them and what's going to be the biggest challenge?  
EVAN SCHWAN: Honestly their skill positions.  They have really big, physical wide receivers.  Their quarterback obviously has a really good arm and can stretch plays.  Their offensive line is massive, especially their right tackle, who I'm going to be going up against.  He's like 6'9", 360 pounds.  It's going to be a fun day, and we're just going to have to play good fundamentals.  Their running backs are another group that do a very, very, very good job, and they're big backs and they're tough to take down, so it's just going to all come back to playing fundamentals and getting those guys down.   
 Q.  If it makes you feel any better they said the biggest thing they're concerned about is the defensive line.  How does that make you feel, that at least they're focusing on that?  
EVAN SCHWAN: No, I mean, hearing that, it doesn't really change my mindset at all.  I'm not relaxed now that you've said that, but I don't think that they've seen a front four like us in any game that we've played.  I can't wait for the game.   
 Q.  Coach Pry, we don't get to talk to him very often.  What should we know about this guy?  
EVAN SCHWAN: Coach Pry is a really good dude.  I wish he could hear me right now.  He's just a really good coach, motivates you, but is always 100-percent honest.  He always critiques when we're watching film, he critiques the performance, not the performer.  He doesn't make it personal.  And I think that's a really good quality to have in your coach, because you never want to make it personal because the players always think, oh, this guy hates me.  But outside of football, you know, he has good taste in music.  He's a big Allman Brothers fan, so any time that comes on at practice, I always yell like, Pry.  He's like, yeah.  He's a really good guy.  I'm blessed to be able to be coached by him.   
 Q.  Bowl practice, how does that differ?  You've got palm trees around, humidity.  Is it tough to focus?  You're in LA, the home of the Galaxy behind you.  How has bowl practice been different?  
EVAN SCHWAN: It has been different.  Whenever we were back in State College being in Holuba Hall and then ending practice and going outside and there's ice on the ground, it's like, man.  Being out here, it's a little bit difficult to focus, but we've just got to come together before practice.  Coach Franklin does a great job of getting everyone to rally around him and just say, hey, this is what we're here for, we're here to win a game, we're not here to be on vacation.  The first two days that we were here felt like that, being able to go out and explore LA, but now it's just nose to the grindstone and get ready to play.   
 Q.  Did you guys talk any about the Rose Bowl growing up and maybe playing in the Big Ten, what this game kind of means?  
EVAN SCHWAN: Not really.  Growing up we didn't really talk about it.  Honestly when I came here in 2001, I was six years old, and I don't think I -- seven years old.  Yeah, I was always like, oh, yeah, I'm like a big sports fan or whatever, but I don't think I actually knew kind of what was going on.  I didn't know the rules of the game, obviously, like I do now.  But yeah, we've talked a little bit about what this means.  He's always a big sentimental guy, so he's like, this is going to be something you're going to remember for the rest of your life.  I'm like, dad, I will.  So just little stuff like that.   
 Q.  That's dads for you.  
EVAN SCHWAN: Absolutely.   
 Q.  Are your parents out here?  
EVAN SCHWAN: No.  I think they're coming out on the 29th or the 30th.  Yeah, I mean, they have work.   
 Q.  Your favorite part of the week so far, anything stand out to you from your day or so here?  
EVAN SCHWAN: Disneyland.  That was a lot of fun.  I was planning -- I was kind of like, going into it, I was kind of like, this is kind of a thing for children, I don't want to be walking around the park, I need to save my legs for the game, that kind of thing.  But as soon as I got there, I was blown away.  I mean, it was magical.  But we had a really cool group of guys.  It was like me, Sickels, Gaia and Nelson, and Adam De Boef, and we had the fast passes so you go to the front of like every line, and we rode every good ride at least once.   
 Q.  How long were you guys there?  
EVAN SCHWAN: We stayed until -- what time did we get there?  We got there at like 1:00, I think, and we caught like the last bus at 9:00.  At first we got there and they're like, yeah, go explore, and we went to the ESPN Zone and had food, and they're like, you can leave or you can stay, and they had buses every hour.  So after the ESPN Zone, we went back out and it was a little bit less busy, but it was kind of funny because we were like, all right, we're going to get on the 6:00 shuttle, ride a ride, get on the 6:00 shuttle.  Then we're like, no, 7:00, no, 8:00, no, 9:00 because we were just having so much fun.  Yeah, that was definitely the most fun that I've had.   
 Q.  What have you gotten to know about USC's offense over the last couple weeks getting ready for them?  
EVAN SCHWAN: Just watching film on them, they do a multitude of things.  They just have a lot of really, really good players, and their offensive line, their quarterback, running backs, their big, tall, physical wide receivers, and that's something that we've seen all season.  We're not going to do anything special.  We're not changing our fundamentals, anything like that.  We're just doing what we know we can do.  And that just really -- it starts in practice, and Coach Pry and the defensive coaches have done a really great job preparing us for what we're going to see.   
 Q.  Do they remind you of anyone you've played so far?  Coach Franklin said something to the effect that they looked like Indiana but --  
EVAN SCHWAN: Yeah, I was going to say Ohio State just with the size of their offensive line and the skill of their O-line.  Yeah, I mean, they do a lot of like 11, 12 personnel.  They don't do any like trades and shifts or anything like that.  It's pretty kind of vanilla.  There's no smoke and mirrors in it, which is good to see, because especially whenever we were playing Wisconsin and Michigan State, it's not hard to play against, but it's annoying.   
 Q.  USC's offensive line, what kind of stands out about those guys?  
EVAN SCHWAN: They're just big, especially their right tackle.  I saw him at Disneyland yesterday, and you could see him from a mile away.  He's 6'9", 360.  It's not really something that -- we've seen big guys like that but not someone who really sticks out like that.  And it's not just him, their whole offensive line is very talented, and they have a lot of good -- their skill positions are very good.  Quarterback, receivers, running backs, just across the board.  Just very, very talented.   
 Q.  You were talking about Zach there, and he was just saying that he expects to get matched up with you quite a bit in the game.  Try to break down his skill set.  Obviously the size speaks for itself, but beyond that.  
EVAN SCHWAN: I mean, I don't want to get too specific just because I don't want that to -- I might help him out.  I don't want to tell him what I'm doing.  No, he's just -- for such a big guy, you would think that he doesn't have good feet and he's slow.  That's not the case at all.  He handles movement very, very well.  The most impressive thing, I think, is his pass set and just watching film, guys just cannot get around him, and especially being 6'9", your arms are that big if not bigger.  He probably has like a seven-foot wingspan.  Yeah, and the run game is something that I've tried to focus on a little bit more just because of his size, and going up against our tackle Chasz Wright, who isn't as big, but he's 340, 345, 350, just going up against Chasz has really helped me out in kind of figuring out what I'm planning on doing against him.   
 Q.  They cycle through Ronald Jones and Dustin Davis, the two running backs.  Kind of break down what those guys do well and what's different about those two guys.  
EVAN SCHWAN: Yeah, I think the thing that they do the best is get YAC yards.  As soon as they get hit, you think they're down, but they then carry you for another two, three, four yards, which is huge.  So I think moving forward, especially in practice, we're going to have to focus on our fundamentals, just tackling, pursuing for the ball, and that's something that Coach Pry and the defensive staff has done a really good job of, just kind of honing in on that.   
 Q.  When you guys have watched film on USC this year, do you even watch September, their game against Alabama, or do you mostly worry about the latter half of the season?  
EVAN SCHWAN: When we're talking scheme and kind of seeing where their successes come from, yes, but I personally like to watch every game just because I always hone in -- like I said, I hone in on Zach, No. 73, just to see kind of what he's about, what he's going to do, strengths, weaknesses, that kind of thing.  So yeah, watching as a group and a defense, we normally will watch film from kind of the second half of the season, but me personally, I like to watch every game.   
 Q.  What did you notice from that Alabama game?  He had three sacks in that game versus say the last couple games of the season.  What changed in him?  
EVAN SCHWAN: I mean, Alabama is a really good team.  You've kind of got to put that into consideration.  I mean, they're No. 1 for a reason.  But other than that, I think just -- I think it's an early game, and I think a lot of the time teams won't start to gel as well until kind of a few games in, so that game kind of being early I think is definitely a factor.   
 Q.  What are they doing differently?  We talked to Zach about that this morning, and he said I can't even exactly explain it.  When you look at it from the outside, what are they doing differently on that offensive line?  
EVAN SCHWAN: Honestly, I don't think they've changed their scheme at all.  They're doing things that -- the things that they had success with kind of earlier in the season, they're still doing those things.  I don't know specifically what it is, really.  I can't put my finger on it.  I feel like our team is kind of in the same situation.  When people ask me why we have more success playing in the second half, it's something that I can't tell you because I don't know.  We don't change our game plan, do anything super crazy like that.  But yeah, I can't really put my finger on it.   
 Q.  Does the fact that their quarterback, the way he does things, does that impact the way you approach him?  
EVAN SCHWAN: It's something we need to be mindful of.  I think we've seen quarterbacks that we've played throughout the season that are similar to him, and we're just going to have to plan accordingly.   
 Q.  Who would jump out at you that's similar to Sam?  
EVAN SCHWAN: I'd say J.T. Barrett and his ability to extend plays, run the ball, just throw really.  Yeah, J.T. Barrett.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT