PENN STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 22, 2016
Evan Schwan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We'll start with defensive end Evan Schwan.
Q. Senior Day, emotions tend to run high.  How do you plan to keep that in check?
EVAN SCHWAN: Really I'm just going to keep the same routine that I have each week.  After we started having some success in Minnesota and Maryland, I became very superstitious.  I've gone about in the hotel and just preparing for games the same way each week.
Obviously we're going to have the ceremony where all the seniors get to walk out and meet their parents or whoever at the 50 yard line.  I know my parents are definitely going to be emotional, probably my dad more than anything.  I'm going to kind of make sure like, Hey, I still have to play a game, just chill out a little bit.
I'm just kind of going to go about it as similar to any other game.
Q. What is that routine, that superstition?
EVAN SCHWAN: I don't really think I can disclose that information.  It's kind of personal to me.
Q. Why do you say your dad is going to be really emotional?
EVAN SCHWAN: I don't want to say he's a cheesy guy.  But for how big he is, he's an emotional dude.  Over my career, him and I have gotten really close.  Obviously he played college football at Purdue.  He knows what it's like to experience what I'm about to experience, having Senior Day, to be able to run out and meet my parents on the 50 yard line, celebrate that with them.
Q. How big of a help has he been to you throughout your career, given he's been through it before?
EVAN SCHWAN: Not as much as one would think.  He's not really, like, a technique kind of guy.  Obviously football has changed from whenever he played in the late '70s to early '80s to now.  It's never really been about technique.
It's just him trying to motivate me, praying for me.  He's a very, very faithful guy.  Just him letting me know that he's there for me if I ever need anything from him.
Q. I can remember Bill O'Brien mentioning your name as a guy that could contribute early in your career.  If you could think back to that time in your career, how have things developed?  How are things different than what you expected they would be?
EVAN SCHWAN: Yeah, no, I remember that press conference.  My brother always sends me anything that Coach Franklin or any of the coaches always say about me.  It's kind of cheesy in that aspect.
But earlier in my career, obviously I wish I had played more.  But obviously the circumstances were what they were.  But now that I'm having some success, it's my time.  I wouldn't change anything if I could.
Q. We talk about your career, everything that's gone on throughout your career.  Has this gone by quickly or...
EVAN SCHWAN: It has gone by very, very quickly.  It's one of the things all the old guys always say, kind of like a cliché, You don't really know how much time you have until your time is up.
But, yeah, the last four and a half years have gone by really fast.  I look back at it and I'm just so grateful for the experiences that I've had, the people that I've met, the relationships that I've kind of constructed over the past four and a half years, and relationships that will be lifelong with teammates, coaches, training staff, people that are townies that are from State College.
Just moving forward I'm really excited to expand my relationships with those people.
Q. For the guys in this class, how important was it to get back to where Penn State is at this point?  A lot of people thought this would take years and years.
EVAN SCHWAN: It's really important.  As a freshman, I never thought that I'd be sitting here talking to you guys about what lies ahead.  Obviously, like you said, there's still work that needs to be done, and that's Michigan State.  We're just doing the best that we can to prepare this week, to come out and beat them.
Q. Different guys handle these sort of Senior Day situations differently.  Who do you think will be the most emotional in that tunnel prior to the game?
EVAN SCHWAN: Honestly, I don't think any of the seniors.  I'm really close with all the guys that are going to be running out.  I think Coach Franklin might be the most emotional guy because I think he understands what we've been through over the past four and a half, five years.  Yeah, I definitely think he'll be the most emotional guy.
Q. Do you try and block out what's going on in that Ohio State game before you come on the field or do you think you'll keep on eye on the scores?
EVAN SCHWAN: Honestly, I found out that was the noon kickoff.  Obviously our game is at 3:30.  Regardless of what happens in that game, I think I'm going to go about my day and prepare for this Michigan State, this good Michigan State team, the same as I would for any team.
Q. Do you usually look at your phone?
EVAN SCHWAN: Yeah, you know, with later games, I know a lot of guys like to watch some games that are earlier in the day.  I kind of try and stay away from it, especially in this situation I'll definitely try and just block everything out, stay off my phone, not have the TV on or anything like that.
Q. You mentioned how this year has been your time to step up.  What has that been like, knowing you're in that role, game in, game out?
EVAN SCHWAN: It's been a great experience.  Obviously last year we lost Zettel, A.J. and Carl to the NFL.  They're having great careers right now.  To have that kind of weight on your shoulders, that pressure that you have to come out every game and perform, I love that kind of pressure, especially whenever I have success with it.
Q. Off the field as a senior, what has it been like taking on more of a leadership role?
EVAN SCHWAN: It's been awesome.  I feel like I've taken a few of the young guys under my wing and just kind of showing them what it means to be a Penn State football player, a blue-collar, hard-working guy that goes to class, works hard in the classroom, to get a degree that will be with them for the rest of their life, which means so much.
Q. It's hard to think long-term, but what are your plans after this year?  What do you want to do?
EVAN SCHWAN: I was having a conversation actually with my mom about that.  I have no idea.  It's exciting in that aspect, but also the unknown is kind of scary.  I think that's what's exciting about life, is kind of not knowing what is going to happen.
I would love to be able to play at the next level.  It's been a dream of mine since I found out the NFL was an actual thing back when I was five, six years old.  If that pans out that way, I would be more than happy.  If it doesn't, obviously with my degree in economics, I'd like to get into finance and that industry.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT