CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
June 30, 2016
Briana Mao
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Kind of like a rollercoaster round for you a little bit.
BRIANA MAO: Yeah.
Q. Couple bogeys and a double on the front nine and you bounced right back with birdies.
BRIANA MAO: Uh-huh.
Q. So how did you feel total about your entire round?
BRIANA MAO: Total I feel good.  Been struggling with putting and ball striking the past few weeks, so finally it all feels like it's come back together.
I switched putters and I feel like I have such good feel on the greens.  The one unfortunate double, it was kind of just a dumb one.  I miss-clubbed and gave myself a bad lie.  Stuff happens on the golf course.
Overall I was really happy with how I'm playing.  I feel good about it.  It's only the first day though.  Got three more days to continue that.
Q. True.  New putter.  When did you switch and what are you using now?
BRIANA MAO: I switched at the beginning of the week.
Good question what I'm using.  The Ping Vault I think.  I think it's almost out.  It's not out yet.
Q. So it's limited edition?
BRIANA MAO: Not really.  It's coming out to the public really soon.  No, it's not like just for the pros.
But my old putter had an insert on the face; this one is milled, and I feel like I have much better feel off it.
It was great.  I love that putter.
Q. Kind of like Brooke a few weeks ago.  Switched putters right before KPMG.  Maybe the same one.  It's a Ping, too.
BRIANA MAO: What are you doing?
CADDIE: Don't forget your caddie.
BRIANA MAO: My caddie did great, too.  (Laughter.)  I had fun out there.  We had a good group.
Q. How is the relationship between you two?  Seems pretty easygoing.
BRIANA MAO: Yeah, it is.  We keep each other just relaxed.  He's really good at getting good numbers, all that, giving me good advice.
It's nice to be able to have a conversation on the golf course.  He can talk to me about anything, and soon as we're like within ten yards of the ball it's like, Okay, back to golf.
Q. What's his name?
BRIANA MAO: Steve Bangs.  He's been caddying for like 14 years.  On the PGA Tour for most of that, and last three years out here on the LPGA.
Q. Can you spell the last name?
BRIANA MAO: B-a-n-g-s, like bangs, the haircut deal.
Q. What's the plan for the rest of the day and heading into tomorrow?
BRIANA MAO: Plan for the rest of the day is just I always have my post-round routine.  Just hit everything.  Yeah, hit all parts of my game, have a really good meal, relax, hit up the doughnut place, Voodoo Doughnut, and just have fun tomorrow.
That's how it's going.  Great course.  Beautiful weather.  Fun.  Is that good.
Q. That's great.  Fantastic.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT