NBA ALL STAR
March 7, 2021
Quin Snyder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Team LeBron 170, Team Durant 150
 Q. What was that experience like for you, and if anything, what were some of the surprises of the experience from your point of view?
 QUIN SNYDER:   Well, I mean, the whole situation was a surprise in itself just because it's not something that personally I've ever had a chance to do before.  It was a thrill just to look out on the court and see not just All-Stars but Hall of Fame players and have chance to be part of that game, and then to look also and see Rudy and see Donovan and Mike was also really special.
 Q. I recently talked to Coach K [Mike Krzyzewski] about you and about the All-Star experience, and he said that you're a guy that craves and thirsts for learning all the time.  He said, ‘he's not going to be coaching in a regular style, but he's going to find a way to learn something from the experience.’  Did you find yourself trying to pick up something?
 QUIN SNYDER:   Well, so much just being around these guys was a pleasure.  I haven't processed it all yet, but just the level of focus that they find even when it doesn't appear to be the case.  I don't know if anyone can ever learn how to shoot like Steph and Dame.  That was quite an exhibition.
 Q. Wondering what kind of interactions you were able to have with Donovan and Mike and Rudy out there.
 QUIN SNYDER:   Well, you know, first, when Don and Mike were warming up, there's an auxiliary gym, they were shooting, just getting ready for the three-point contest.  Having a chance to go out there and watch those guys shoot, first of all -- obviously not as much interaction with Mike and Don because they were on the other team, but before the game they were shooting lay-ups and peeled off and said hello and kind of enjoyed the moment, and then obviously Rudy being on our team, saw a little more of him.
 As much as anything, regardless of how much you were actually interacting, it was just fun to be out there with those guys.
 Q. I'm just curious how much coaching did you get to do?  Did you get to drop any plays or anything like that?
 QUIN SNYDER:   I did as much as they wanted me to do, which was a couple plays, a couple situations.  You kind of help out any way you can, but I think they pretty much had it covered.
 Q. What did it mean to have some of the guys with you like Keyon [Dooling] who have been with you since Missouri, to kind of go full circle with this?
 QUIN SNYDER:   It was great.  I mentioned Donovan and Rudy and Mike, and really just for our whole staff.  Obviously, Keyon, in particular, seeing him when he was 18, 19 years old and looking back over my shoulder and seeing him there with a smile on his face was gratifying for me.  I know this is something that our whole staff really enjoyed and truly appreciates this opportunity.  They don't come around very often.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT