BNP PARIBAS FED CUP: USA VS POLAND
February 7, 2016
Mary Joe Fernandez
Bethanie Mattek-Sands
Coco Vandeweghe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








USA - 4
Poland - 0
MATTEK-SANDS-VANDEWEGHE/Jans-Ignacik-Kania
6-1, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: We will take questions.
Q. Bethanie and Coco, tell us about how the sun and the wind kind of played doubles with you today a little bit out there.
BETHANIE MATTEK-SANDS: I mean, it was swirling pretty good out there.  The sun actually wasn't too, too bad.  It was a little to the left even on the serving side.  Definitely made for interesting tosses in the wind.
I mean, it's something you have to get used to.  You play in windy places.  You know your opponents are going through the same thing.  It's not really like you have a disadvantage, but you just kind of got to know how to play with the wind.
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Luckily in doubles we chose in the second set to keep on the serving side, so we really didn't have to adjust too much on the serve, whereas in singles you're constantly adjusting your serve.
I was a little bit worried about it in the beginning because in the warmup I completely whipped a ball that I thought was right there on a forehand.  I thought, Oh, boy, this is rough.
Like Bethanie said, you have to get used to it as quick as possible.  I don't think the sun was a factor at all, at least on my side.  I think we did a good job of it.
Q. Is there any more that you could have gotten out of this weekend?
CAPTAIN FERNANDEZ: No (laughter).
The goal was to get a win any which way we could.  I think it's great we were able to win all matches.  We mentioned this at the beginning of the week:  Team competition is different.  The pressures are different.  The expectations are different.  Working together means a lot.
So everybody on the team had great chemistry.  They worked for the common goal.  We were able to get the win.  So we're very, very excited and happy.
Q. Second set, I can't remember the exact score, but you were down a couple of breaks, maybe a Love-30 game.  Any nerves at that point?  What were you thinking?  How did you pull it out to capture that quick second set?
BETHANIE MATTEK-SANDS: They came up with some good shots.  They ripped a couple balls, had some good reflex volleys that came back.
Not to discredit their play by any means in the second set.  But we just played our game.  We kept playing aggressive, closing the net.  That's how we won the first set.  We're prepared for our opponents to step up and play better.  Maybe have a little less pressure on them in the second and go for a few shots.
I think it's business as usual.  We had our game plan and we stuck to it.
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I agree.  There's ebbs and flows to every match.  It's how you weather the storm for their good play and also adjusting to your own play.  At times Bethanie and I were playing in sync, and at times we weren't.  This is the first time we ever played together.  I think we have to take that into account as well.
But I think we adjusted well right after the break, showing our dominance and presence again, basically dominating their serves right back.
Q. Mary Joe, could you explain what the next step is in Fed Cup and why this is a significant moment.
CAPTAIN FERNANDEZ: A big matchup, because now we're one step closer to getting back into the World Group next year.  This was very important.
Now we go on in April to play our next one, try to get three wins again to compete for the Fed Cup title next year.  We have the chance next year.
Q. Coco, when you're watching what she's doing on the court, where she's hitting the ball, are you happy you're not playing against her?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I mean, I've played against her plenty of times.  But, yes, Bethanie is a very accomplished player on the singles and doubles court.  She brings a presence about her with her game style, just mindset, overall general swagger, I guess you could say, on the court.
To have that on my side of the net is definitely a positive any way you cut it.
BETHANIE MATTEK-SANDS: Coco beat us in mixed doubles in Australia.  She's stepping up the doubles game.
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I almost hit Bob on match point.  Just go for it.  I'm going line on Bob.
BETHANIE MATTEK-SANDS: You going back, c'mon (laughter).
Q. You guys have heard us all week.  We kind of go googly over Venus Williams, and I think for good reason.  She came out and sat in the hot sun with you today.  You sat out for three or four hours yesterday.  The consummate team players to go through with that.  Any thoughts on Venus joining the bench today after getting the win?
BETHANIE MATTEK-SANDS: No, I think it just shows what a great event it is in the team sense.  Not too often you have your peers and your friends watching your match and cheering you on.  It's just such an individual sport.
But Venus is a great team player.  She's a good friend, great person off the court and on the court.  It was a lot of fun.
I think we had a lot of fun, us four girls and MJ.  We had a really great week bonding.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT