US OPEN
August 31, 1998
Mary Joe Fernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Of course the first question is always going to be about the wrist. 
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: It is doing better. It has been getting better every week. I think
it is hopefully going to continue to get better. Really no major complaint. It gets stiff
every once in a while, but in general, it is getting better. It feels good. 
 
Q. Were you able to get out on the ball as much as -- (Inaudible.)
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Like I said, everyday gets a little bit better. I don't think it is
where I want it to be at. It is still a little ways to go, but my range of motion is
getting back to where it used to be and my strength is not there yet. But it is feeling
almost like it is almost there. 
 
Q. So you are saying you get by these matches because you are a shrewd veteran?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: No, every match is tough, every match I have played in the last
couple weeks has been really tough for me. I haven't had any easy ones. I am competing
well. I am getting a little mentally tougher, which is something you lose for a while. I
think I am moving well, and I am hitting the ball better. Like I said, every week has gone
a little bit better and I feel a little bit more confident and the first couple of weeks
when I came back, I felt a little bit awkward and spastic on the court and still on big
points, I am a little bit unsure of myself, or a little hesitant. But I think that the
more matches that I play, and the more weeks that I can continue to play it is going to
come a little bit more naturally. 
 
Q. There has been unusual number of retirements today - people cramping up and things
like that. It is not really hot out there. But what is it like out there?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: It is really humid. It has been really humid for the last week. And
I think that people are perspiring more than normal. That might have something to do with
it. 
 
Q. How did you feel?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I felt so-so. I got really dehydrated last Thursday in New Haven. I
guess I still haven't recovered 100% from it. I had a long day of matches and it was hot
and humid and got a bit dehydrated. I think for me it was a little bit tougher, but it is
humid. I was fortunate that it was -- really wasn't hot out there, but it is still tough
conditions because you are perspiring a lot and you have got to drink a lot and I am not
the best at doing that. I've really got to force myself when I am playing to keep the
fluids coming. 
 
Q. Are you feeling ill at all otherwise?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: No. 
 
Q. First time unseeded here in ten years.
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Yeah. 
 
Q. A little strange?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: A little bit. It is definitely a different feeling. But like I
said, nowadays matches are tough from the start. Every week that I have played, last few
weeks, I have drawn whoever first round and I think that is the way it is going to be for
a while until I start doing well and get my ranking back up. But, yeah, it is tougher. It
is a lot tougher. 
 
Q. Talk about your opponent.
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: She was good. I had never seen her play before. I thought she
played really well. Solid. Had a good serve; trouble reading where she was going to serve
and hit the ball nicely. 
 
Q. Do you have the feeling that the young players on the Tour last couple of years are
now finding out that they can make an impact and players, veteran players, adjust to what
they are doing and there is a leveling out process where they are not going to ride as
quickly as maybe they thought they would?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I think that happens to everyone. I think after the initial, you
know, whatever -- initial coming onto the Tour, it is a surprise, nobody knows how you
play. Second year is always tougher, second and third year because people do start
figuring out how to beat you. The older players have a lot of experience and I think they
find ways to win. But, still, the younger -- players are knocking on their door and they
are continuing to pressure them and it will be a matter of time before they start to win
more. But I think it is a good mix. It is a good mixture, good rivalries, and I think we
see the older players doing well because they have less pressure. The focus is on the
youngsters and attention and media is really focused on the up-and-coming ones so I think
the older ones say: Hey, I still play well and let me just work my way through the draw;
nobody really is noticing it; if I am in the semis and finals, anything can happen. 
 
Q. Does it seem like there is more power-oriented players on the women's Tour today
than there was ten years ago?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: For sure, no question. 
 
Q. Depend less on finesse --
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Yeah. 
 
Q. How would you have done if Mary Joe Fernandez was --
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Now? 
 
Q. -- 15, 16 today.
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I'd definitely play differently. For sure. I think you play
according to the time -- the era that you grew up in. I grew up in an era of not making
mistakes and the key was to hit one more ball back and to be really consistent and now
that is not the case anymore. It is: Hit it hard and hit winners and go for your shots. It
is okay to make mistakes, people out there making 25 unforced errors, but if they make 30
winners, they are going to win the match. That is definitely, I think, how youngsters are
taught to play nowadays. 
 
Q. Do you think that is setting a message to Martina Hingis, she has to become a bigger
hitter?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I think she feels sometimes that she does have to against some of
the big power players like Lindsay Davenport or Venus Williams. But I think that she is so
smart and she anticipates so well and just so -- I guess, I don't know what the word is --
I mean, just very intuitive on the court that that is her asset. You are not going to have
10 out of the Top-10 being big hitters, you are always going to have somebody that is
playing differently. She is the exception in the young ones that have come up. She really
still knows how to develop a point and is very smart on the court. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT