PILOT PEN INTERNATIONAL
August 27, 1998
Mary Joe Fernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. What kind of day has it been for you? 
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Very long and tiring day. 
 
Q. How are you feeling physically?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Tired, for sure. It was tough coming back today. Yesterday, with
the rain delays and the match the way it was, I could have finished it off yesterday and
didn't. Coming back one set-all, a lot of stress for that one set and like every point is
a big point, so I think you feel it even more. Then having to come back and play Julie was
tough. I played a good first set. I had opportunities and didn't convert as much as I
needed to and then really, I think both matches -- physically, I got fatigued. 
 
Q. Did the heat get to you? I saw ice packs --
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Yeah, not so much the heat, just, I think, in general. I played
more matches than I have played in a long time. No matter how much you train and work out
it is not the same going out there and competing and getting nervous. Having to deal with
the stressful situations takes a lot more out of you. 
 
Q. Can you just kind of run us through your day from the start of the day 'til the end
of the day?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I feel like I have just been out on the court all day. I just got
up, had breakfast and hit a little bit before my first match and played that third set,
and then had about an hour, hour and 15 minutes before my next match. Played that, had
another hour and played my doubles. 
 
Q. You felt you were carrying Arantxa throughout the doubles match today? She looked a
little erratic today.
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: No, I think she felt like she had to do more because I was a little
bit tired and they were picking on me, so I think she felt like, okay, I've got to help
you out. But they are very good, so it was hard to move and do a lot of stuff. I mean, I
definitely think it was more me than her. 
 
Q. Since you have come back, is this the hardest you have had to physically push
yourself?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Yeah, most definitely.  
 
Q. Yesterday one of the things you said you wanted to get a lot of matches in and play
--
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Which it has been great. Every match I play is a bonus. So playing
three singles matches is good for me and hopefully will be good not only for next week at
the Open, but in general for the next few tournaments in the next few months. 
 
Q. In the second set, the singles today, how tired were you? Looked like --
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I was really tired. I kind of hit a wall. Actually after that
really long game at 5-4, I felt all right, and then played one -- the first point of the
next game just really like felt it, felt fatigued and it was hard because you had to
struggle with every point against Julie. She wasn't giving me anything. I had to work hard
to earn my points. It was discouraging that first set. 
 
Q. You have been around for a few years, but have you ever had a day like this?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I am sure I have had a few of these. It comes with the territory. 
 
Q. How did the wrist hold up today?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Not bad. (yawns) excuse me, I am tired. Not bad. A little bit
tired, but I think to be expected. 
 
Q. What is your routine now before the Open?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I just go to New York, practice there over the weekend and start up
on Monday or Tuesday. 
 
Q. Plan on taking any days off?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Tomorrow is definitely off. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT