CHASE CHAMPIONSHIPS OF THE COREL WTA TOUR
November 19, 1997
Mary Joe Fernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Mary Joe, what was going through your head after that fall? 
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I was extremely embarrassed after the fall, to be honest. You know, before the fall I felt that I was playing okay.  I wasn't playing that badly, but I just wasn't converting on the big points.  And, like I said on the court, it's very tough playing against Lindsay because she doesn't give you much of a chance to go into the rallies, and if you don't take the first ball away from her, you're in trouble.  Puts that much more pressure on you, because every time you have a game point or break point -- I think up to that point I hadn't broken yet.  I had a couple break points, but I wasn't able to convert.  You know, finally I think at 4-3 I played a good game.  And I think she made a few unforced errors, and that basically got me back into the match. 
 

Q.  It looked like you did a good job hitting behind her a lot.  You were going down the line and hitting across court.  Did you do anything differently?
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Not anything specifically.  Like I said, I tried to take the ball as early as possible.  Try not to give her the time she needs to set up and put the balls away.  So, I was just trying to cut the angle off.  If I could hit it down the angle, it was better, because it was her left side.  It's a harder shot.  But I think when you play someone like Lindsay or Monica or Mary that's what you have to do. 
 

Q.  Can you think of the last time you had a more satisfying win?
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I've had a lot of good matches this year.  This was nice because I didn't come into this tournament with a lot of confidence.  I had a few tough matches in Europe and lost early in Chicago.  So, I was, you know, pleased with the way I play all year except the last couple weeks.  So, it was nice to come here and put it together and play well. 
 

Q.  When you were at match point down, what were you thinking then having been match point up?
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I think I was match point up first. 
 

Q.  Yes, you were.
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: But at the same time, I was up  40-15 at 4-All, and I think I had a game point.  So in my mind I thought geez, this should be my match point when I broke for 5-All.  And then you get the match points.  And I think the first one I played a good point; came up with a big shot.  And then up 6-3 in the tiebreak.  You just try to go for it because, you know, if the ball is in her court, she's going to hit a winner.  She hit a couple good serves.  And it was just going back and forth.  It didn't look too good there when she finally got it back and had match point. 
 

Q.  You haven't played her since Lipton in March and everybody, obviously, over the last four or five weeks, has been talking about the strength and improvement in her game. Were you at all intimidated in her game? Could you tell a vast difference in her game?
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: She's such a powerful player and she's so talented.  She could hit winners from any part of the court.  She's really improved her serve.  She's been serving well and I've been watching her play a little bit, and she's been getting a lot of three points on her serve and getting out of a lot of jams.  But, you know, intimidated no, because I play her so much and we practice so much together that, you know, I go out there, like I said, trying to dictate as much as possible, as much as she allows me to. 
 

Q.  You play Irina Spirlea in the quarterfinals.  How do you see this match?
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I don't have a good record against Irina.  My game doesn't match up against hers.  I haven't played her in a while, so hopefully I can go out there and put a good match together. 
 

Q.  How much pain were you in when you cut your elbow?
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: It's real sore because it's stinging.  I scraped my skin off.  But fortunately it's not something affects the way you stroke the ball.  It's skin, like a rug burn. 
 

Q.  You don't feel it when you are serving --
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: No, um-um. 
 

Q.  Sorry, Mary Joe.  Did you trip or slip?
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I'm not sure. 
 

Q.  Or combination of the two?
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I don't know.  All I know is I hit a good shot and I was very excited because I was going to come in and take it out of the air, and the next thing I knew, my feet left me.  I was like where is the ground?  And so I don't know if I tripped or got stuck.  I'm not sure. 
 

Q.  Dying swing?
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Yeah, one of those. 
 

Q.  You and Lindsay were close friends, there was some tension.  Where do things stand now? 
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: We're friends again. 
 

Q.  Mary Joe, some people would say this would be the worst time to play Lindsay because she's been so hot that you must have some confidence.  Would you just say you know her game too well to be intimidated by it?
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I know her game.  And I think it's tough, she's been playing a few weeks in a row and been winning, and I think it's always tough to come into the last tournament of the year.  She played a really tough match Sunday against Hingis.  I think it was 7-6 in the third as well.  She might have been a little bit tired.  And, you know, it's tough to keep it up.  It's tough to keep the high level of play throughout.  And, you know, she's been playing extremely well for the last six weeks. 
 

Q.  If you say Spirlea's game doesn't match up well with yours, would you say Davenport's does?
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: No.  Because she's hits a lot bigger than I do.  And she can take me out of the court much easier than I could hurt her.  But I definitely would rather play a Davenport hitter than someone like Spirlea. But I don't match up, no. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT