US OPEN
September 1, 1997
Mary Joe Fernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Have to stop undressing on the court like that, people are starting to talk.

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I know, pretty good strip tease, right?

Q. How is your back?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: It's okay. It's a little stiff. In general, it's okay.

Q. When did that start acting up?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Just started tightening up at the end of the first set. I've had a
history with my back. I kind of know the symptoms of when it's going to get a little bit
tight. So I pretty much got it right away before it got bad.

Q. What brings something like that on? You had trouble with it earlier this year.

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Yeah. I have a bad lower back. I mean, it's just something I've
always had. I don't know what brings it on. 

Q. Was there a shot?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I had one shot. That's when I felt it tighten up. She hits the ball
really low, I'm bending more maybe than usual. You never know what it is.

Q. Is that something chronic with you?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Yes.

Q. You had some overheads you weren't able to put away today. Did that affect your
overhead?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I thought I put most of them away. I actually felt okay after I got
taped. I had chances. I was up 2-Love, game point to go up 3-Love in the second set. I was
up 4-3. I definitely had my chances. She's a tough player. She served well. She serves
smart. It was hard for me to pick where she was going to go. You know, she mixes it up
well. She has one side that's very low, the other side she hits. She's a tough opponent
for me.

Q. Your serve seemed to get slower. I was looking at the serve speed as the match wore
on. Was that from your back hurting?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Maybe. Maybe got a bit tentative on it. I was still trying to get a
high percentage of first serves in so she wouldn't be coming in all the time. I thought I
served pretty well in general. Big games, maybe I missed a couple too many first serves.

Q. You played Jana many, many times. Do all the matches pretty much follow the same
pattern with her?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Not always. You know, against Jana, you don't quite know what she's
going to do. She can do everything: She can serve and volley; serve, stay back, baseline;
chip and charge. I thought she mixed it up well today. Didn't really give me a target all
the time. That's hard, because I'm expecting her to come in and she's not. You know, I
know her strengths and her weaknesses, just like she knows mine. It's just a matter of who
is executing better on that day.

Q. Given how optimistic you were coming into this, with a relatively injury-free year
that you've had, how disappointing is this to lose at this point?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: It's always disappointing to lose at any point. Losses are tough.
They're tougher at Grand Slams. You know, I had a good first week, played solidly. Today,
you know, I wish it would have gone the other way obviously. But that's the way it goes.

Q. Seems incredible to a lot of us that someone who has her talent can go all these
years and never won a Grand Slam. Even when you're not playing your greatest tennis,
sometimes the draw is just so good you make it to the final, you win the final, get your
one moment of glory. Do you have any opinions?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: You look at the winners of Grand Slams, they're very few. It's a
very difficult task. She's been in the Finals. She's almost done it a few times. That's a
big credit to her. She's still capable of doing it at any time. She's such a good athlete,
she's got everything. It's a little bit, like you said, sometimes the draw works out for
you, it goes to your advantage. Sometimes it doesn't. You know, when you see the names
that have won, they've been pretty solid.

Q. Your back was tightening up at the end of the first set. You got what looked like a
bad call on set point at the end of that set.

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: It was close. I don't know if it was bad. I'll watch it on instant
replay.

Q. That must have been a little hard to swallow?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: First set is a big set. Whoever gets the first set gets the
momentum. First point of that game actually was a big point. I had the passing shot, ended
up missing it. Few points here and there.

Q. How did it look on the instant replay? 

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I'd have to look at it. I don't know. I'm going to have to look at
it and see.

Q. Mark Woodforde said earlier this week he thought that top players should play
doubles because it makes them more of a complete player. I wonder, how has doubles helped
you?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Doubles has helped me a lot. It definitely has helped my aggressive
mentality, to look for short balls, serving and volleying just helps you to get that
movement going forward all the time. In doubles, when I feel I'm returning well in
doubles, I usually end up returning well in my singles. For me it's been great. I try to
play doubles at every event. I have a lot of fun, too, playing it.

Q. It never becomes too much at a Grand Slam event to play both?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Not really. I'd rather go play doubles than go practice. It ends up
being competitive and a good workout as well.

Q. Did you wear a brace or anything during your doubles match?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I did. I wrapped it.

Q. Any problems at all?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: No.

Q. What is your schedule like for next year? I know this is about the time --

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: -- we start doing it. Basically it's the same as this year. I
always tend to go back to the same places that I have in the past. Maybe add a couple
different ones. Start the season off in Australia, come back play Indian Wells, Lipton,
Hilton Head, Amelia. Kind of the same pattern.

Q. Is it true that you thought last year of curtailing your schedule but you had such a
good year that you changed your mind?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: No. Actually there were a lot of rumors going around that I might
stop playing, play a little bit less. But, no. Rankings change and it's impossible to play
less with the way the rankings are going now. As long as I'm healthy, that's the most
important thing. I enjoy training and playing that much more. It's tough when you get
hurt, stop and start.

Q. How many tournaments do you average a year?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Well, I think up until last year or this year, maybe 14 or 15. I
think this year I'll end up playing maybe 19.

Q. 19?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Yeah.

Q. How many do you plan on playing next year? 

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: The same.

Q. 19 or 14?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I think I have 15 now, and I'm playing four more, four or five more
this year.

Q. What are your plans as far as a coach goes?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I have a coach.

Q. Bobby going to stick with you for next year, too, you're going to be working with
him?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Yes.

Q. Hal South did a survey on junior tennis injuries. Showed that there's a really high
growing incidence of injuries among tournament Juniors. The conclusion was the way they're
being taught to hit the ball, too soon, too early. I know you've been plagued with
injuries as a junior. Have you got any comment on what you think about kids playing an
average of 17 tournaments a year, working out three hours a day on the average?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Well, I found it tough when I finished high school and I started
playing full-time. My body wasn't ready for it. I didn't know that I was going to be
fatigued and my muscles were weak really. I think it's important to start maybe when
you're 14, 15 years old to strengthen, to get more flexible, to be ready for when you do
start playing that many tournaments. That's all really you can do to prevent.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT