US OPEN
August 30, 1997
Mary Joe Fernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Mary Joe, was it hard to get a sense for how you're playing in a match like that?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: No. I thought I played well. I thought that I hit the ball better
than my previous two matches. I've had really close matches with her in the past, won one,
lost one. I knew it was going to be tough for me to win, you know, both sets. Pretty
convincingly was a good sign for me.

Q. Mary Joe, you just get more and more confident as you pass that through the
tournament?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: This week, I felt a little bit better with each match. So that's
always a good sign. Matches obviously are getting better. Now I play the winner of Novotna
and Lucic, pretty tough regardless of who I play. I'm just going to have to keep focusing
on my game, play even more aggressively, take a little bit more chances. It will be
important to serve well in my next match, too. 

Q. Is there an adjustment as you go along in the tournament as far as the stadium is
concerned, feeling more comfortable each time you play?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Well, I played out in the stadium three, the grandstand today. I
love that court. I've always played well on that court. It's a little bit smaller and
there's more of a family atmosphere; it's closed in. I like that court. Day before
yesterday, I played on stadium. I like that court, too. Actually, I like it better than
the old stadium. When you're in it, it's a little closer in. You don't feel as big. When
you watch, it's a little bit different. It's much more bigger. The ball sounds really good
in there.

Q. Mary Joe, we don't know obviously what's going to happen tonight. There is a chance
you're going to be playing a 15 year old player in Mirjana Lucic. What do you know about
her? Is it surprising that she has shown so much poise at this young an age?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Well, I first heard about her this year, she's she won a couple
tournaments. I played in the little charity event on Saturday with her, a few points in
doubles. I got a little bit of a feel for how good she is. She hits the ball very hard on
both sides. Like you said, she's very poised. For sure she's going to be a terrific
player. She already is. Tonight is going to be a tough match, playing somebody very
experienced. I'll look forward to playing either one of them. If it is Lucic, it's more of
a challenge. It's something to look forward to. You know, just try to go out there and do
the best that I can.

Q. How far along is she for a 15 year old compared with some of the very advanced 15
year olds you've seen?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I think she's very far along. I think she's played three or four
tournaments, won two of them already. I'd say that's a pretty good effort.

Q. Just getting back to the stadium situation for a second. Do the players themselves
feel part of the history of what's going on here this week?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I think so. This was a big deal for everybody. The ceremonies on
Monday night were very special, very moving. It was just quite a sight to see all those
past Champions, giving a tribute to Arthur Ashe, opening up the stadium. I think players
have realized this is a big deal,. To be part of it is something very, very special.

Q. Do you look forward more to playing more of a known quantity like Novotna or are you
more curious and look more forward to playing a youngster?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Either way it's fine. They're both going to be very tough. Like I
said, Novotna has been around a long time; she always gives me tough matches. I lost to
her at Wimbledon. Never having played someone, there's always that question mark there of
how that's going to go. We all know that she's very good and strong. You know, either way,
it's going to be really tough.

Q. Monica Seles said something interesting yesterday about the atmosphere in the locker
room with Martina Hingis being No. 1 in the game. She said that it's a more sort of laid
back, almost friendlier atmosphere because Martina talks the same way to somebody who is
No. 100 in the world.

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Yeah, she's great. She's very down-to-earth, very sociable with
everybody. You know, she doesn't go hide or go into her own little corner. She's in there
laughing and talking, right up till she has to go out to play. It's nice.

Q. Do you have family here?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: My mom and dad are here.

Q. Did you get a chance to see any former champion maybe that you had read about or had
been an idol of yours? Did you get a chance to meet anybody? 

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I wasn't here Monday night. I had to play on Tuesday. I got the
goose bumps watching it on TV.

Q. Anybody there that was somebody that maybe you idolized when you were younger?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Well, I mean, growing up I always watched Chrissy and Martina play.
They were both there. I ended up playing against them, which I feel very fortunate to have
done. But it was just neat overall to see everybody there.

Q. How are you feeling about this year's tournament compared to past tournaments? I
know you weren't here last year. But past US Opens, how are you feeling with your game and
health overall?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I feel good. I mean, knowing problems I've had, they're with my
wrist. So far, knock on wood, it's hanging in there. Otherwise, it's great. I think the
facility is outstanding. It's a lot less stressful I think than it used to be in past
years. You don't have to walk through so many people. It's just more, I think, peaceful
than in the past.

Q. You have extra motivation against Novotna, considering what happened at Wimbledon?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: No. I'll be out there obviously trying to win. We've had a lot of
good matches in the past. She is a difficult player for me. She's always attacking. She
serves really big. I'm going to really have to be on top of my game, either way, with
whoever I play. If I play her, even more so.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT