US OPEN
August 28, 1997
Mary Joe Fernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. That was a pretty solid third set you played out there, Mary Joe. 
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Yes. Both second and third sets I felt pretty comfortable. First
set she took me a little bit by surprise, served big serves. I wasn't really sure what to
expect. I'd never played her before. Actually I haven't really seen her play too many
matches. That's a little bit difficult sometimes. I had opportunities, I wasn't able to
convert. Fortunately the second set I got the momentum going. Once I got ahead, I felt
confident. 
 
Q. Mary Joe, at the same time you were playing three sets on one court, Meilen Tu was
playing Arantxa in three sets on the other. She said looked at her in awe. How do you look
at her?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Who? 
 
Q. This kid. 
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: The person I played? 
 
Q. Meilen Tu, somebody like that.
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: That's a good question. I've never played her before. I know she
has a very good game, hits the ball very hard and flat off both sides. Like Arantxa said
earlier, the game is changing; the youngsters are hitting the ball harder and going for
more. She's definitely one of them. She's up-and-coming. I think she needs a little bit
more experience, like you said, maybe more big matches to break through. From what I've
seen her play, I think I played her in doubles once, she hits the ball solidly. 
 
Q. I mean, the idea that there's somebody playing really in her second US Open ever who
has won her first match and you've won 25 matches here.
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Everyone has their age. It's a little bit fascinating when you're
young, very exciting. I remember coming here my first time when I turned 14. US Open is a
big deal, especially for an American. You know, you see it on TV every year. It's a place
to do well. It's exciting. It's exciting to be around the other players. I'm sure that's
what she feels. She's been around for a couple years. I think she's maybe more used to it
than somebody else. It's just a thrill to be around all the top players.  
 
Q. You made a good point about the young players hitting so hard, and yet there are
players on this Tour who are more finesse players like yourself and even Martina Hingis
who are continuing to succeed in the face of all of the big hitters. Can you comment about
that a little bit?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Well, I think it's a good contrast. I think when you see a hard
hitter, play someone who doesn't hit the ball quite so hard, but moves well, is able to
change the direction of the ball well, it makes for interesting matches. The trend
nowadays is to hit it a little bit harder and go for more shots and more winners. You
know, it's very rare to see someone like a Hingis beat them all the time. She's
exceptional. She's very fast, anticipates very well, hits the ball extremely early. So she
compensates her speed with the power of her opponent. But, you know, I think that solid
game will never be gone. I think you'll always have someone who is not a power hitter and
can still do well, still move the ball around, kiind of outsmart the opponents It's
getting tougher and tougher as time goes on. 
 
Q. Do you have any sense that these younger players who do hit the hell out of the ball
really have not gotten a lot of good education on how to construct points or how to put
points together? 
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I think it's getting better. I think the players are getting
smarter out there, everyone, the hard hitters. But sometimes you don't have to be too
smart; they take two whacks at the ball and the point is over. It's just a different game
style. It's not one where you have to do too much constructing. You kind of try to go for
your big shot and get the opening and, boom, you hit the winner. 
 
Q. Can you talk a little bit about what happened at the end of last year, your
decision, you were going to retire, did you retire?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: No. 
 
Q. Then can you clear all of this up and what happened?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: At the end of last year, I was having a lot of wrist problems, I've
been having them for a year. It was just getting a little bit frustrating. A lot of rumors
were going around about me not playing anymore. But, no. No retirement plans as of now.
This year has been good for me. I've been healthy. I've been playing well. I think that's
the most important thing for me, if I can stay fit, then it makes the game that much more
enjoyable for me. There's no start and stop, start again. 
 
Q. How did those rumors get started? What we heard was you said to Harold, you know,
"I'm not going to play, reduce my schedule"?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: No. 
 
Q. Nothing?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Nothing. That's how rumors get started. One person talks. 
 
Q. Is this another Bollettieri coach you're working with now?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: No. Bobby Bank, he was just working with Justin Gimelstob up until
now. It was good timing for me because I was working with Sven through Wimbledon. He
started working with the Swiss Federation. Bobby just ended with Justin. He's from
Florida, so it makes it easier. 
 
Q. Where are you training now?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Florida. 
 
Q. You're not going up to Bollettieri's?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I still go there on my weeks off of training, do fitness stuff. I
like it there a lot. 
 
Q. Did the tendonitis flare up recently?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: It actually flared up in Wimbledon. Took some time off, got a
little irritated in Canada because I hadn't played too much. Played a lot of matches in
one week. It's doing pretty well now. 
 
Q. The right hand, right?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Yes.  
 
Q. How vivid were your dreams of winning a Grand Slam eight years ago and how vivid are
they now?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Well, I think every youngster dreams of winning a Grand Slam or
being No. 1 in the world. You know, those dreams are still there until you fulfill them. I
still feel I have a good chance. I think a lot of things can happen in two weeks. I've had
one realistic opportunity to win, that was '93 at the French Open. You know, I wasn't able
to. But, like I said, I feel that if I'm playing well and I'm healthy that anything is
possible. You know, this year at the French and Wimbledon, I lost two 7-5 in the third
matches against Seles and Novotna that could have gone either way, you never know. It's a
matter of persevering, you know, just keep on trying. Whether it happens or not, we'll
see. 
 
Q. Does it remain any sort of a motivational thing for you?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Sure. I think winning and moving up and always improving is
something that motivates me. You know, winning tournaments, and obviously Grand Slams are
the ones that you strive to peak at, so those are the ones in the back of your mind you
really want to do well in. Winning is the ultimate goal. 
 
Q. When did you become a serve and volleyer? 
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Way back when (laughter). 
 
Q. After 14 years of professional tennis or whatever it is, long time, what do you need
a coach for? What does a coach do for you? What are you looking for in a coach?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Well, I feel that it's so much easier from the outside looking in
than when you're out there, whether it be strategy or technique. When you're playing, it's
hard for one to realize what's going on all the time. When you step away from it, it's a
lot easier. So a coach helps you to look at what you're doing, what you're not, what your
patterns are, scouting your opponents. It's just a lot easier with somebody there helping
you out than doing it on your own. 
 
Q. Do you ever videotape your matches?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: No. But I watch the ones that are on TV. My sister tapes them for
me. 
 
Q. Have you ever picked anything off the videotape, "Why did I do that?"
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Sure. I like watching a lot of matches. I've watched all of my own
matches, especially the ones that I lose, to find out what went wrong. I pick up a lot of
things. 
 
Q. Mary Joe, was there ever any point today where you sort of said to yourself,
"Uh-oh, I think I might be in trouble here"? 
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Sure. Whenever you lose a set, you know you're in trouble. 
 
Q. What do you say to yourself to get out of that? You always seem so calm out there.
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I just knew the first set there were a couple points that made the
difference. I needed to win those in the second set. You know, I hang in there. I really
wait for my opportunities. Finally I got the break, got up 3-1, a felt a lot more
confident. So it's just a matter of sometimes weathering the storm and just, you know,
mentally staying tough. 
 
Q. Did the rain delay have any bearing on a slow start?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: It's the same for everybody. It was the same for everybody. You
can't say -- 
 
Q. Not knowing her serves?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: No, I don't think so. 
 
Q. Were the delays a bother?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Delays are always a bit of a pain. We got here early this morning,
9:30. Had to wait around. Didn't really get a chance to practice because it never really
stopped. It's frustrating because you just don't know when you're going to get on. They
actually moved my match. I ended up being fortunate that they moved the men's match out of
the stadium and put us on. If not, I could still be waiting to go on. 
 
Q. You play doubles later today?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Yes. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT