XXVI OLYMPIC GAMES
July 31, 1996
Mary Joe Fernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Mary Joe, are you suffering from, is it a sinus infection?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  No, it's a bit of the flu.


Q.  Did it make a big difference, you think, in your play today?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  No, I've actually had it for the last three or four days.  So I'm better.  I'm feeling much better today.


Q.  It did seem to be a match in slow motion, a bit.  What was the reason for that?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  Actually for me it looked like it was fast motion, because her ball comes so fast it's hard to get prepared and hurt her.  And she served really well and big points, she really puts you on the defensive right away.  Unless you're serving really, really well or taking the offense away from her, it's very tough to play her.


Q.  She looked like she was going to put you away on the second set at 4-1, and then completely turned around.  What went on there?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  It was just a couple of points that turned it around.  I think I might have had a breakpoint to go down 5-1, and I hung in there, won that game 4-2.  And then I won the game to break back even.  Once you're even, you're back in the match.  I was a little bit unfortunate not to win that second set.  I served for it 6-5 and had a couple of set points in the tiebreak.  So obviously that was a critical time of the match.


Q.  Is it difficult playing your best buddy?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  I think it's getting easier.  I think this was easier than last time when we played.  We just kind of go out there now and we know each other's games really well, and just do the best that we can.  And whoever played better was going to win. And she played better today.


Q.  Lindsay said that because you know each others games so well that on some shots that she would think that you would know her tendencies so she would try to do the opposite.  Was that your similar experience?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  Yes.  We know our tendencies, on a deuce point she usually serves up the tee.  So I thought she'd serve wide, because she usually serves up the tee.  I think a lot of that was going on.  That's normal because we practice with each other so often.


Q.  What did you say to each other at the net afterwards?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  I congratulated her because she played so well.  And she said sorry, and that was about it.


Q.  Did you sense from her the kind of joy she would normally have in this situation?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  I think she would have shown more emotion if it had been somebody else.  The friendship there I think comes into play where you don't want to make the other person feel bad. So I know she's very, very happy and she's worked very hard and she deserves to be in the final.


Q.  Mary Joe, we're from NBC Spanish, I wondered if you could answer the question in English and Spanish.  The question is how differently are you going to prepare for the game against Novotna now, compared to the game today?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  It's a little bit of a different match, but in one aspect I still have to play aggressively.  Novotna is  going to come in and attack as much as she can, even though she doesn't hit the ball maybe as hard as Lindsay does, she slices it very well, and has a first serve and second serve like Lindsay.  So I'm going to have to try to attack a little bit more.  It's not easy to do when someone is coming at you all the time.  But she's playing really, really good tennis.  That's something I'm going to have to do to beat her.


Q.  In Spanish?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  (Speaking Spanish.)


Q.  Can you tell us your feelings after the match, maybe the mixed feelings, I'm sure this is a great disappointment, but you're also seeing your friend go on?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  That's the positive thing, no matter what happens, at least someone who you like and who is a good friend goes on.  That's important.  Sure, you're always disappointed when you lose, but I had a great tournament and hopefully it's not over yet. I'll play one more good match.  But like I said earlier, she hit the ball very well, had big points.  I had a lot of chances in the beginning of the first set to win games, but she came up with big shots.  And she was just too good.


Q.  How would you handicap the gold medal match?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  I think it's going to be a good match.  I think if Lindsay hits the ball as well as she's been hitting it she has a great opportunity.  Arantxa is a fighter and she's going to hang in there and not give up.  But hopefully Lindsay will be hitting the ball well off the ground from the start and win the gold.


Q.  Is the Olympic better than someone who's been in medal matches before, what one single thing would you tell Lindsay between now and match time?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  I think to enjoy the moment.  It's a big moment for her and she's already secured a medal, so I think she can relax about that aspect of it and just go out there and play her best.  She knows she can win and it's just a matter of executing her game.


Q.  Mary Joe, how are you going to be feeling for the doubles today?  If you're not feeling well to start with it must be stressful.

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  No, I'm feeling a lot better today.  So I should be fine.  I'm playing in about half an hour.  So I'll be ready.


Q.  You've talked in the past about having difficulty playing someone you're friends with, not being the sort of person that can go out there and kind of beat them off the court.  When you say it was easier today, have you got better at being a bit more aggressive in that situation?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  I think I'm never out there, no matter who I'm playing, big attitude that I'm going to kill them.  I go out there and play my game.  And I'm very competitive, I hate to lose, no matter if it was a friend or not a friend.  I think it was just easier than last time at Wimbledon because it was the first time we played after becoming good friends.  And I knew that she felt a little bit of the stress because of it.  And that was tough.  But today it was fine.  She handled it fine and I think we both did our best.


Q.  Is this something you'll talk about in the future, can you even joke about it at another time or will it just be not something that comes up?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  We've talked about our matches before. I'm sure we'll talk about it.  I'm sure she'll say, good job no  faulting on set point.  And I'll say you were choking, you were up sets 6-2, 4-1.  So we'll laugh about it.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT