XXVI OLYMPIC GAMES
July 28, 1996
Mary Joe Fernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Was that much easier than we expected?
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:   It really wasn't that easy at all.  It was a tough match.  I came out playing really well from the start.  A couple really close games; went to deuce, I think she had 40-Love, 40-15 in a couple; I was able to hang in there and win those games.  I got to a good lead, helped me a lot, gave me confidence.  And then second set was close, You know, I was behind up until 3-2, but, you know, I was playing well. I felt I was hitting the ball early and taking chances.  I think I attacked well, which I think was important to me. 
 

Q. In a match like this of a slightly lower ranked player coming off a big victory, is that something that you go into a match conscious of?
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:   I played Ines a couple of times in the past.  I know her game very well.  She knows mine really well too.  She is very dangerous if you let her dictate the play.  I saw her play against Mary the other day, and she was the one who was running around hitting forehands to both sides  and really taking it to Mary, so I knew that I didn't want to be the one running out there. I tried as much as possible to take the ball early, and any opportunity I had I tried to come in and make her pass.  
 

Q. Mary Joe, the top 8 women seeds are still playing, but the men are down to two.  Would you say that there is a lot more consistency at the top of women's tour than the men?  Why do you think that happens?
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:   It varies.  Some weeks it is the men; some weeks it is the women.  You know, there is no real reason for it.  I think the top women might be a little bit more consistent because men's competition is tougher.  First round if you get somebody with a big serve, it is dangerous, and you can go out.  I think in the women, it definitely improved throughout the last couple of years, but the top players still seem to pull it out.  I think mentally they have more of an advantage against the lower ranked players, but the men, you still see the top players usually getting to the quarters, semis, but, you know, it has been very hot here, and conditions are little bit different so maybe that has been a factor too. 
 

Q. Do you think, in general, this is a good period for women's tennis?
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:   I think so.   I think it is  great.  We have Monica back.  She is playing great tennis.  She is great for the sport so I think that has helped a lot, and, you know, we are having good matches out there.  We are not having a lot of, you know, easy, easy first rounds anymore.  The depth, as I said before, has improved, you have to be sharp from day one.  
 

Q. You will play the winner of the match presently on Center Court and since you are going to disappear shortly, could you speak a little bit about both of them?
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:   I have played both Conchita and Natasha various times.  And both are very good players.  I guess Conchita is the favorite to win.  If I play her, I have to take a lot of chances as well.  She likes to dictate rallies.  She does a lot of heavy topspin and slice, and moves very well, so I think I can't let her control the points from the beginning and if Natasha wins, kind of the same thing, she hits spinny balls.  I don't think she hits it maybe as hard as Conchita.  I basically I have to be the one to be aggressive and take some chances.  
 

Q. How are you feeling physically at this point?
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:   Feeling good.  No sun today.  It was great. 
 

Q. Have you talked to some of the other members of the American team about security here?  Was there any nervousness about -- 
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:   I think everybody was very shocked yesterday and was very scared about it.  And security has definitely tightened up a little bit more.  They checked all the athletes' bags this morning when we walked in.  I think people are definitely more on the alert.  It is a scary thing when something like that happens.  
 

Q. In Barcelona you were awarded the bronze; do you like the idea you are playing for it now?
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  No.  I don't like that idea.  It was a great feeling when I won my quarterfinal match knowing that I had a medal, but I think it is better this way.  I think probably be only one bronze medalist.  
 

Q. Still too early for you to think about a sweep?
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  Yes, I mean, we are still all in so that is great.  Knock on wood that it will continue.  Every match is getting tougher and hopefully we will all be in the semis.  We will take it a day at a time.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT