XXVI OLYMPIC GAMES
July 26, 1996
Mary Joe Fernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. First of all, how do you feel?  Are you okay?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:   Yeah, I am fine.  A little tired, but I am fine.


Q. What was it constantly doing this (indicating scratching side)

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:   I have a little stitch (not a medical stitch) in the side.  When you run and got a stitch in the side, I had one of those. 


Q. Did you have to take any -- a pill or anything to --

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:   No.


Q. They are just towels, basically?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:   Ice towels to cool down.  It is so hot out there. 


Q. I haven't seen the match stats, but just in your own words, describe that match. 

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:   It was very close; the first set especially.  You know, we were on serve the whole way and every point, you know, was close.  She was hitting the ball really hard and deep.  It was hard for me to take the offensive from her.  And finally in the third I took a few more chances; tried to come in a little bit more.  Courts are fairly quick, so I think it is hard to pass on continuously.  It paid off at the end.  I attacked, I think, as much as I could.  And fortunately, for me, I got the good start the third set; was able to keep it up.


Q. Second set was just sort of a let-down?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:   A little bit.  First few games went by so fast, she didn't make any mistakes.  I was having a little trouble reading her serve.  She tosses it behind her head.  I couldn't tell where she was going.  I wasn't coming close to breaking her.  Usually that is my strength is returning peoples' serve and it -- I was a little frustrated with that, but in the third set I got the hang of it a little bit more and, like I said, attacked it a little bit more.


Q. So the bottom line on today's match is you are happy with the way you are playing?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:   Yeah, I think I am hitting the ball pretty well.  I think I have to play more like in the third set all the time.  Even though she was playing very well, it was hard for me to dictate.  I had to look for it even more.  Especially in this heat, it is too tough to run balls down all day long.  You have to really take chances and I think play as aggressive as possible.  


Q. Have the women on the U.S. Team been doing anything together, going out together, staying together?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:   Yeah, we are all in the Village and have done a lot.  Monica, Lindsay, Chanda, Gigi, we have split up, but we have gone to basketball games, swimming, water polo.  The aquatics is right there, the Village, that has been fun.  What else?  We just -- we are having a great time.  I think we have bonded well and we are excited for each other and it is nice to be a part of a team and root for other people, not just for yourself.  It is nice to have it back too.  You know that people out there are backing you and really pushing for you to win.


Q. You are not experiencing any transportation problems or did you stay in the Village last night?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:   Last night I stayed out here Stone Mountain.  The nights before we play, we have been staying out here.


Q. You will play doubles tomorrow?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:   Yes.  Looking forward to that. 


Q. I know you are going to say it is too far ahead but have you thought about the possibility of that you may be the first tennis player to have four medals when this is over with?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:   You are right, I haven't thought about that.  It is too soon to tell, but obviously that would be unbelievable.  Those medals that I have now are the  highlight right now of my tennis career and I will always cherish them, but there is still a long, long way to go before we reach any medals. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT