XXVI OLYMPIC GAMES
July 24, 1996
Mary Joe Fernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Are you okay?  Is everything 100%?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:   Yeah, I feel pretty good out there. Definitely really hot.  I mean, I made a point to put a wet towel around my neck on the changeovers and drink as much fluids as I could.  Definitely you start feeling a little bit more.  You have longer rallies, takes a little bit out of you. I think I was lucky I got off to a good start and was able to just keep it going.


Q. Does it feel any different playing in the Olympics? Is it a different feeling?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:   Oh, yes, very different feeling.  It is very hard to describe.  It is just very special when, you know, you are out there representing not only yourself, but you are out there representing your country and your teammates.  I think that is why maybe you feel a little bit extra pressure.  You want to do so well not to let anybody else down, and when you are out there for yourself, obviously you want to win all the time.  But if you lose well, you just deal with yourself, you don't have to worry about anything else.  Here you really try to make a big effort to make your country proud, and your teammates proud as well. 


Q. Speaking of that, as an Olympic veteran, would you add your voice to those who say that there perhaps should be a change in the format?  If so, what would you do to change it?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:   I wouldn't mind having it more of a team event.  I think that way, you know, it would be USA against the rest of the nations.  Whether it be like the old Fed Cup format where you have two singles and doubles during a week and maybe have a team competition first week and individual second week, I think that would add a little more excitement to the competition, because it would be more of a team event.  And I think the players would enjoy that as well.


Q. Mal was just in here talking about different type of crowd here because they are really not necessarily tennis fans, they are Olympic fans.  Is that something you can tell on court?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:   For sure.  You never, you know, are in a place where people just start chanting for you from the start of a match.  And it is so exciting, you win a point, it doesn't matter, you know, where in the match you are -- you get pumped up because they start chanting either your name or USA.  And sure it is, because they are not only tennis fans. They just want to see you win, and they want see red, white and blue continue.  And I think that definitely helps us being here in the States, to have that support.  And, you know, when it gets a little bit hotter and getting a little bit tired, to  hear those fans yelling for you and cheering you on definitely makes you raise your level of your game.


Q. You were at Barcelona at that time.  What is the change between these two cities?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:   Well, both atmospheres are great.  I think in Barcelona the crowds were very good.  They were packed stadiums all the time and, you know, the Spanish definitely get into their sports.  And considering, you know, they have two top women tennis players, and they have a ton of men players that are doing so well, I think they are very vocal.  And I think since my dad is in Spain, I had a little bit of an advantage playing over there.  I think they were a little bit more partial to me when I played against a different country, not Spain.  So it was fun.  But I think here there is a little bit more electricity out there on the court, like I said, just from the start, the crowd is into it, and they are ready to cheer you on.


Q. Is there any extra pressure on you because you are playing in --

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:   Obviously more pressure when you are playing in your home country.  I think you are expected to do that much better.  Like I said before, you don't want to let anybody down.  So there is the pros and cons.  It is good because you have the support, and they are rooting you on. Also there is a little bit more pressure of you wanting to do  much better.


Q. The diversion that you have had here, can you talk little bit about that experience of the Village?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:   It is such a unique experience, something you can't compare to anything else.  I was fortunate to be a part of it in '92.  From then on, knowing how much I want to be a part of this Olympics, it is just you gain this camaraderie with all the other athletes; not just the tennis players, but -- even just the tennis players, it is nice to be in a team format.  We played Fed Cup.  If we win three times a year, that is really special.  But here being a part of the bigger picture, we are really a very small part of it.  To see how everything develops around you, how other athletes train and their habits and all that stuff is just quite an experience.  And for myself, opening ceremonies has always been the highlight of the whole Olympics.  And even though I won the medals in Barcelona, I still have to say going out there, the opening ceremony is what really gets the goose bumps in me, and I get very emotional about it.  Winning medals is a bonus.  But it is just something that you wish everybody could have a chance to participate in.


Q. Is there something that you would like to have a picture from the opening ceremonies or something that you have seen in the Village, not necessarily having monetary value, something that would be special to you besides a medal? 

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:   I mean, I guess if you were able to just capture that one moment when you are walking out on that stadium opening ceremonies night, just freeze it.  It went by so fast, we got out there, and I know running lap around that track seems forever when I am trying to do it, and we walked it and it just goes by so fast.  And I wish that that could have taken a little longer time and you are able to savor it a little bit more.


Q. Is this your coach, by the way?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:   This is my coach, yes.


Q. What have you been able to do other than play tennis, have you been able to see things, some sports?

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:   I actually haven't.  I am going to the basketball tonight, though.  I am looking forward to that.  Friends of mine Lindsay and Chanda and Monica, I think they have gone to swimming and volleyball.  I have actually had to go to a couple of functions at night, so I haven't been able to get out.  But I am going to make an effort next few days and the following week to see more events.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT