THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 24, 1996
Mary Joe Fernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Mary Joe, could you tell us a little bit about how the match went, description. 

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  A little bit up and down.  I got off to a good start in the first set, able to maintain my lead.  Second set got off to a bad start.  She got off to a good start.  I was lucky enough to come back and tie it 5-All.  I made a couple unforced errors.  It's a set all. Got off to a really good start in the third set, started playing well.  She fought back and it got close there at the end, and fortunately I played a couple of the big points well and got through it. 


Q.  Mary Joe, what were you doing particularly well today and what do you wish you had been doing better? 

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  I was having a tough time with the wind.  It was a little windy.  When I was against the wind, I couldn't crack an egg.  I was getting hurt a lot. She was running me around.  I got stuck behind the baseline.  I think I needed to be more on the baseline, a little more aggressive when I was against the wind.  I thought I served pretty well when I had to.  Like I said earlier, on the big points, I played them well.  I played solid. 


Q.  What is the key thing when you guys play under these conditions? 

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  You really have to concentrate, watch the ball.  The wind was going basically one way, so one time you're going to be against it, another time you're going to be with it.  You go against it, now I have to struggle.  If you lose any of the games with the wind, you're like uh-oh.  It's the same for both of us.  If you concentrate well and stay positive, that's one way to deal with it. 


Q.  How are you doing physically? 

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  Pretty well. 


Q.  You feel well? 

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  Yes.  I feel healthy, knock on wood, hope everything's good. 


Q.  Do you have any specific goals for this tournament? 

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  One match at a time. Obviously, I have a tough match next, I play Graf.  I've got to play really aggressive against her, take chances and hope she's a little bit off. 


Q.  Is it nice to be able to play here and just go home, I guess? 

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  It's great. 


Q.  You just go home? 

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  I just go home.  It's very nice, more relaxing.  Seems like I'm just going to practice.  I practice here a lot during the year.  It's nice having my family and friends coming out and support, cheering me on, encouraging me.  It's nice to be back.  I haven't played here in two years, so it's nice to play in South Florida. 


Q.  How many people did you have out here? 

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  I had a lot. 


Q.  On your team? 

MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  My parents, sisters, nieces, friends, a lot, aunts, uncles. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT