THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 22, 1996
Mary Joe Fernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  You are happy to be playing here at home again? 
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  I am so happy.  I have missed the last two years, you know, it is very special for me to be able to play in front of my family and my friends.  Since the new stadium has been here, I haven't played in it, so it was a special treat to play my first match out there.  
 

Q.  What do you think of the stadium? 
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  I love it.  I am fortunate I get to practice in it a lot, so I know the feeling, but it is one of the prettiest and one of the best stadiums that we have.  
 

Q.  Does it feel different with people in it? 
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  Yes, it does.  I practiced the week before Indian Wells on it.  They were working up there. The music was going.  It is a lot different today with a real crowd.  
 

Q.  How do you feel about your game right now? 
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  I was pleased with the way I played today.  It's -- it comes and goes.  Sometimes I feel like I am hitting the ball really well.  Sometimes I lose my timing a little bit.  I know I have to concentrate a lot harder now than I used to.  That's a big part of it.  I feel like I hit the ball well today.  She is a tough opponent for me.  I knew I had to come out strong; I had to get to a good lead. She is dangerous.  She has a big serve, and a really good athlete.  I'm glad I was able to stay focused and play the big points well today.  
 

Q.  6-2, 6-1, that is not squeaking by. 
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  The results were easy, but I think it was easier than the score.  A lot of games she was up 30-Love, I was able to get out of them.  Those games make a big deal because it is a lot easier, you know, serving 5-2 then it is 4-3.  It wasn't an easy match, by no means.  
 

Q.  Is it nice to be able to win those close points? 
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  It is.  It is very nice.  That is something -- I played last week in Indian Wells; I was hitting the ball very well, but I wasn't able to convert on the big points.  It is nice to know, okay, it is 30-All, I am ready for it, and I know what to do.  That, you get, from playing more matches.  I had a big break between the Sunshine Open and Indian Wells.  I know, for me, it is important to keep playing, keep playing matches and stay competitive.  
 

Q.  What is your schedule the next few weeks? 
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  I am not quite sure.  We are going to see.  I might play, I think, Amelia Island; then hopefully play Fed Cup.  Then the European season starts all over again.  
 

Q.  You would like to play The Olympics? 
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  I'd love to.  That is my goal, playing the '92 Olympics in Barcelona has been the highlight of my career thus far.  It is a great feeling.  I love playing for my country, so I would be very, very excited if -- to be able to be on that team this year.  
 

Q.  How are you feeling these days? 
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  I feel very healthy.  Thank you for asking.  I should knock on wood.  
 

Q.  You don't take that for granted the way -- 
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  I don't at all.  My number 1 priority is to stay healthy and, you know, I've taken good care of myself; eat well; get enough rest, you know, make sure my defenses are high so I don't catch anything in the air.  
 

Q.  Harold still works with you? 
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  Yes.  
 

Q.  Working on anything in particular, or normal -- 
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  With me it is a long term process, just getting myself, I guess, the confidence to attack; take chances and we are working on my serve; trying to make it a little more of a weapon.  It is really the same thing we have always worked on, but something I still need to improve on.  It is hard when it is not your nature to be aggressive and attack all the time.  
 

Q.  How do you see the filed in Lipton now with Seles out; Jennifer back in? 
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  It is an exciting feel.  It is unfortunate Monica couldn't play.  It obviously would have been the best field ever with her playing.  I think it's great Jennifer is back.  She is playing well.  She seems very happy. We have Graff, Sanchez.  We really couldn't ask for too much more, so it is a great event and, you know, it is going to be interesting.  I think women's games has improved a lot over the past years.  There aren't any easy matches.  Anyone can upset anyone at any time.  Hopefully we are going to see a lot of good tennis this week.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT