STATE FARM EVERT CUP
March 11, 1996
Mary Joe Fernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  Were you feeling any lingering effects from the match
the other day today?  Tired at all?

 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  A little bit, but actually I recovered pretty
well.  I drank a lot of fluids between yesterday and today.  It
was perfect conditions for me to play in, so .... But I feel okay.


 Q.  Why do you feel that you couldn't work your way back into
the match after the first set?

 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  It was a weird match.  I was having trouble
getting any rhythm.  It was a little windy and she was serving
particularly well and I wasn't picking up her serve at all.  I
was getting a little frustrated.  I had a lot of opportunities
in the first set - Love-30 couple of times on the serve; wasn't
able to convert; then a couple of points here and there changed
it a lot.

 Q.  Did you feel it was something that she was doing that
you were having trouble that got you off your rhythm or do you
feel it was just you?

 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  A little bit of both.  She was  serving
well.  Usually, I don't mind.  My best part is my return game,
but I was having trouble picking it up.  She has a weird kind
of motion.  Sometimes she, for example, hits that way, but she
hits the other way too, and like I said, I had a lot of opportunities,
but those big points, I wasn't able to convert.

 Q.  Was the wind gusty or steady?

 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  It comes and goes.  Sometimes it was swirly;
couple of points were bad; then it died down a little bit.  But,
you know, it was the same for both of us.

 Q.  How sad is it to lose the title?

 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  It is always disappointing.  You always
want to come back and defend your title, but, you know, hopefully
I will be back next year.

 Q.  Lipton is next for you?

 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  Yes.

 Q.  What will you do after that?

 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  Good question.  Hopefully, Fed Cup.

 Q.  Did you find it different now that there is men and women
at the same time?

 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  I didn't get enough chance to play with
the men this week.  First day.  I played last year with the guys
because it rained on the final day, so I had the same experience
this year. 

 Q.  What about the conditions?  Some of the players were afraid
of not having enough space for men and women at the same time?

 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  I think it is working out pretty well. 
I think they have scheduled the matches appropriately, and hopefully
that is not going to be a problem.

  End of FastScripts........            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT