WTA TOUR CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 16, 1995
Mary Joe Fernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Is there a possibility that you would play singles and doubles next week in Spain?
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  I don't think that's been decided yet.  But, sure, it's possible. 
 

Q.  Mary Joe, you matched her stroke per stroke, you tried everything, and you had five aces, you were at the net.  Why can't you beat her?  What is it about her?  What is it about your game?
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  I think today she just served really well.  I wasn't able to get too many opportunities to break her.  I had one game, I had three break points, and against a player like Steffi, if you don't convert right away, it's pretty tough.  You have to play every point right.  And second set I had one more game, maybe I had 15-30.  But she came up with big serves and at the right times.  And didn't double too much.  She really, I think, the difference was the serve.  Even though I served well, her serve was a lot bigger and it was the difference, I think, in the match. 
 

Q.  Can you walk away from this match feeling good about  taking a lot of chances and risks or deflated by losing 13 times?
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  No, I think I was in the match.  I think it was a couple points here and there that turned things around.  But, you know, Steffi Graf is the best player in the world right now.  And playing the way she is, you have to play perfect tennis to beat her.  And she was on. 
 

Q.  Is she the opponent you'd like to most win over at this point?
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  That would be nice. 
 

Q.  Did she surprise you by coming up on her backhand that much?
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  Well, when she passes she tries to go for her backhand.  But that's what she does.  And I tried to put as much pressure on her, as I could.  She likes to dictate play, and you try to take that away from her.  And that's what I try to do, but unfortunately I wasn't able to do it too much when she served.  I was always put on the defensive right away. 
 

Q.  What are your goals for '96, specifically?
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  To beat Steffi Graf.  No.  Just to stay healthy and keep improving.  And I think everybody strives to do well at the Grand Slams, at this tournament.  Just take it a day at a time and just really do my best. 
 

Q.  At this point, what do you think about the Olympics for Atlanta? 
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  Well, it's so far away.  That's definitely a goal of mine.  It's been the highlight of my career this far, playing the 1992 summer Olympics in Barcelona.  So that would be very exciting and a great honor to be on that team again. 
 

Q.  Steffi said she felt like she played the high point, the 30-30 points maybe a little better, did it take experience or did she raise her game to another level?
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  She does it often.  She raises her game to another level.  And that's the difference, that's why she's No. 1, that's why she been at the top of the game for such a long time.  She knows on the big point to get the first serve in and go for the right shots.  It has a lot to do with experience and confidence.  When you win as much as she does, you feel better about going for the right shots. 
 

Q.  What do you need to develop in your game to raise your game to another level?
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  I think I still can get a little bit stronger and maybe a little bit quicker.  Steffi is probably one of the quickest players out there.  And to really match her every game you have to be quick and you have to get the balls early.  If I can improve my footwork and strength, maybe I can do a little better. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT