U.S. OPEN
September 3, 1995
Mary Joe Fernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Mary Joe, before the second match point can you describe what was going through your
head, what was going on in your heart, what you were thinking?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I just wanted to win the point very badly. I knew I had hit the
ball, I couldn't let her dictate the point. You know, usually top players when they're
down they go for more and I knew that at 5-3 she played a really good game and hit out and
attacked and I tried to hit it and fortunately she mistimed the ball there at the end a
little bit. 
 
Q. I hope this is not superstitious a little bit, but do you remember the last time you
were ill?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: That was a trick question. Not for a while, I haven't been ill
since before the French. 
 
Q. Different kind of feeling?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: It's been great. I had a little patch of a stomach flu for a few
days but healthwise, knock on wood, I've been feeling pretty strong. 
 
Q. You made the quarterfinals in Wimbledon and you were saying that it was a good
accomplishment for you, is it time to get greedy now --
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: No, never a time to be greedy. I feel a little bit fortunate to be
alive in this tournament, first day I was pretty close to being out and I hung in there
and I'm hitting the ball pretty well and just trying to focus on my game and trying to
attack as much as I can against a player like Arantxa and, you know, really taking it one
at a time. I've had tough matches throughout the whole week and they're going to get
tougher, so I've got to get stronger and, you know, start playing even more aggressively. 
 
Q. First set, you know, you were fighting so hard on your serve and she was really
breaking you a lot, how were you able to turn it around at the end?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I never gave up. She was playing real well, not making any
mistakes. That was a long game at 4-1 down the first set I was serving and I had a few
chances to hold and I got to turn the first one around a little bit, but, you know, she
was hitting the ball on the rise and moving me around and I felt I was a little bit late
for the ball. I was missing by a little bit and I think I persevered in the second set
even though I was down a break. I knew I was still kind of in it and that just one break
that tied up at 4-All turned things around for me. 
 
Q. Third set, seventh gave you started to slip away, serve and volley seemed to catch
you.
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Yeah, I'm up 40-Love -- 
 
Q. When do you decide to do that?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I don't know, it was just a spur of the moment kind of thing for
me. It's not something I do naturally, so I have to think about it a little bit. So I was
up 40-Love, lost two points in the back and I said just go for it. And, you know, I serve
better when I serve and volley, I know I have to hit it better, I don't want to try to hit
a volley too difficult volley for me. So, fortunately it was right there and it was a
little shaky, I almost missed, but I got the end of the line. 
 
Q. She looked a little stunned by the --
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Yeah, I don't think she was expecting me to serve and volley on
that. 
 
Q. How did you come back after losing that one that she had ten break points on you,
that one first set; did that take a lot out of you?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: That took a lot out of me in the first set, 5-1 was a pretty uphill
battle for me and I think a big game in the second set was at 1-All, it was on Love-40 and
I held to go up 2-1. At the time it didn't seem like that big a game because she was
winning, but when I look back now, I think it could have turned things around for me. 
 
Q. What Elixir is in the little container next to your changeover chair?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I'm just drinking some Tough. It's called Tough, it's a
carbohydrate drink that the trainers have here. 
 
Q. At the end of the match the (inaudible) are you aware of that, can you feel it?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Oh, yeah, it's great. The crowd gets so loud after a point, you
don't hear yourself. And it is a pretty exciting feeling. There's no crowd like the New
York crowd, and it's much better, obviously, when they're behind you. And it definitely
spurred me on and gave me encouragement. 
 
Q. Do you at all draw on a previous -- you beat her in 1993 French Open, I think that's
the last time you played her.
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: That's the last time, yeah. 
 
Q. You beat her pretty easily, actually.
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Yeah. 
 
Q. Do you think subconsciously you've withdrawn that victory --
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I don't think so. I think players change from year to year, and
that was a long time. I think she's a much better player now than she was then, and
hopefully I'm a better player too. She's been No. 1 in the world already and she's a kind
of champion here, so I don't think you go back to that match too much. You're kind of here
in the present and you play the way you're playing now. 
 
Q. How you feel to be the champion, the Spanish champion?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: It's mixed feelings. I mean, my dad's from Spain and all my
families' there, but Arantxa has been a great champion and she's been a great
representative for Spain and it's nice to have a victory over her. 
 
Q. You served for it and you lost that game and you had a match point and she hits that
low?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: She shanked that, she shanked it. I was like "Oh, no."
Believe it or not I thought of that match when Becker played Rostagno when the ball hit
the net and it went over, I go "Oh, this is great, she's going to win the tournament,
that's not good." But I hung in there and fortunately got through. 
 
Q. One of your most effective shots today was you almost wanted her to draw you wide on
the forehand side where you hit a lot of short angle cross court (inaudible). Were you
working on that the last few months?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: No. That's just something I have to go for. She has a pretty good
forehand cross court, she gets me out there and if I hit it up the line she has a pretty
good backhand cross court, she can get wide, so my best shot's my back cross court to her
forehand. 
 
Q. How many winners do you think you hit, winners on that?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I don't know. I have no idea. 
 
Q. Mary Joe, I'm sure it's always a good feeling to beat the champion, defending
champion, but is it better for you to win this way, fighting, so you can sort of in some
way diminish this reputation of sick Mary Joe, injured Mary Joe -- (inaudible)?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Victory, I think, is victory any which way, but sure it will mean
more down the road knowing that "Hey, I hung in there, I came back against someone
who is very tough mentally as well and such a good player. Hopefully, you know, she knows
that I do have courage and I hang in there and I never give up. 
 
Q. Looks like you got a big water loss out there tonight?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Yeah, I have a big water loss every time I step out there. I've got
to start drinking, good you reminded me. 
 
Q. Was it worse than recent matches that you've had?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: No, I sweat a lot at any time, fortunately it hasn't been too hot
this year and hopefully it doesn't get too much hotter, but I've just got to keep
drinking. 
 
Q. I don't know if you were taught this but after the match Sanchez says she lost the
match more than you win it. What do you think?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I think it's a mixture. It's always a combination of both. Why did
she make unforced errors, hopefully it's because I was pressuring her and she was thinking
about it. But I think, you know, I put the pressure on her and forced her into some of
them. 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT