U.S. OPEN
September 1, 1995
Mary Joe Fernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. I just want to know how your leg is doing and how the doubles went you played?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I didn't play doubles. My legs are better. And I pulled out of
doubles because of it just so I wouldn't strain it any more. 
 
Q. So you pulled out of the mix today also?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Yeah, but it is feeling -- felt better today than it has in the
last couple of days. 
 
Q. What was the problem with your legs?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I strained my left hamstring in my first round match. 
 
Q. Did you have it as heavily wrapped today as you did?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Yeah. 
 
Q. How do you feel how you played today?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I thought I played well today. I was very focused, you know, really
played solidly, didn't make any unforced errors. I knew she was going to come in a lot and
give me chances so I tried today to play as aggressively as I could, but on the other
hand, I made too many unforced errors. It was unfortunate, she got hurt second set a
little bit in her back, and I went through a couple of games easily at the end. But the
first set was a tough set. I felt like I played well. 
 
Q. Can you assess your chances in the next match? What do you think?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: It is going to be tough. If I play Arantxa, she is one of the
quickest players out there, and I am going to be -- I will have to be on top of my game. I
have to take chances. I have to come in and, you know, we will just see. 
 
Q. How do you feel about your game right now?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I think it is getting better. I am getting more confidence and more
matches, that helps me. This is the best, I guess, I felt in a while from Wimbledon to
now. It has been good for me. I think I am on the right track. I have been working pretty
hard and staying healthy and doing all the right stuff. So hopefully, you know, it will
launch me into another breakthrough. 
 
Q. Aside from something like the hamstring, you have been basically relatively healthy?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Yes. 
 
Q. What will it take for you to win one of the Grand Slams? You have been finalists --
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I think just perseverance and patience, I think. If I can keep
working hard and, you know, believe -- keep believing in myself that I can win one, then
maybe it will happen. 
 
Q. A couple of people played today Stich, Chang, Pierce have won one Grand Slam, but
they haven't been able to go to the next level and win another?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I will take one Grand Slam any time. 
 
Q. Why do you think that is?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: It is tough. The competition is difficult. The people at the top of
the game are very solid. Graf and Arantxa winning most of the Grand Slams in the last year
and a half. On the men's side, you know, Sampras and Agassi have been dominating. So it is
tough to get that Grand Slam in there. I think, you really need to put in good tennis for
two long weeks and that is hard. But like I said, a Grand Slam is huge. Just takes time.
You have to persevere, I think.  
 
Q. Is this the hardest one, do you think?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I don't know, maybe it is the one that has the most distractions
and the atmosphere is different. Little bit crazier and louder, but the French is tough
because on red clay it is slow, so you have to be out there longer and grass is hard
because you never know, it can go any which way, so, you know, it is one of the toughest
in terms of the atmosphere, but I think the French is probably the toughest. 
 
Q. Do you keep an eye on the other matches or do you really just concentrate on your
own thing?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I like to watch a lot of tennis. You know, I watch tennis at night.
I know what is going on. 
 
Q. How does Steffi and Monica look to you?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: They look pretty well. I am pretty impressed with Monica that she
has come back and playing so well so soon. I saw her play her first night match. She
played pretty well. She is hitting those lines like she used to. And Steffi had a tough
match in the first round, but got through it and now is supposed to be more confident and
playing well. So... 
 
Q. Do you think her family problems are affecting her game?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I don't know. Steffi is very tough mentally; has had to deal with a
lot through her life and her career, so I think that she can really focus. 
 
Q. Just going back to that one Grand Slam question, also, what do you think is the
difference between somebody who wins one versus somebody who wins a few of them?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I mean, it seems like the top players are the ones that, you know,
that win the most. Graf won so many and Arantxa has won four. I think timing. It is all a
bit of timing, when you come along, and who the top players are. It all depends, a little
bit of fortune here and there could do the difference. 
 
Q. People are talking that Monica is not match tough; been away for so long. Is that
really important or do you think she has got the strokes where if she keeps hitting the
ball like that --
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: That is what I thought that she needs couple of matches to get into
it. She proved everybody wrong in Canada. She didn't play anybody in the top 10, but she
played tough players and cruised through them. She beat Gaby and Gaby is in the top 10.
Doesn't seem like she needs it. I think she is pretty confident in her game and in her
strokes. Her accuracy is unbelievable; just hits those lines and those angles, you know,
we will see when she plays a top ranked player how it will be, but she convinced me that
she is playing really well. 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT