U.S. OPEN
August 29, 1995
Mary Joe Fernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Tough call in the third game in the second set. Did that rile you up enough to come
back, or did you smell a little bit of tentativeness in Judith or both?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: It is funny because Judith and I played many times and our matches
are always very up and down. It is like someone wins four, five games in a row and the
other one wins four, five games in a row. It came to my advantage in the second. Even
though I was down 4-1, I knew I had been down 4-1 before against her, and I came back. It
flopped there. I won, what, 10 games in a row there? It is was really strong. I lost three
games in a row. Then I said "Oh, no, I hope it is not going to be seven games the
other way now." Judith moves well, smart player. And I just knew I had to hang in
there and try to, you know, mix up the pace as much as I could. She was playing well in
the beginning off my pace so I tried to mix it in a couple of lobs and come in a little
bit more. It paid off. 
 
Q. Did you get a sense that she was moving worse after she had treatment for her foot,
or not?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I definitely won more games after she got treatment. I asked her at
the end. She had said she had blisters. That could be really painful. I am sure she wanted
to get the point over with quicker; started making a few more unforced errors. In the
beginning, she got a lot of balls back; really didn't miss. The minute she got her feet
taped or whatever, she started making more unforced errors. 
 
Q. What do you have to do to get back into the top 10? Feeling good physically?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Yeah, this is as good as I felt. I have had a pretty good summer,
and, you know, I think I just have to be patient and, you know, persevere, really. You
know, I am working hard off the court, and, you know, my philosophy is sooner or later
that pays off. Mentally I just have to hang in there. It is tough, but, you know, one day
at a time. 
 
Q. Hitting the ball pretty consistently. Are you hitting it as aggressively as you were
in '93? 
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Maybe not. I think maybe I am a step or a second slower to reading
the ball, picking it up, when it bounces short. I am really trying to focus on the short
balls, but I still feel myself, oh, I could have hit that one and come in or I should have
taken that one on the rise, so, you know, instinctively I think I am still a little bit
slow. That comes with more matches I play. 
 
Q. When you left the court for a while before she got her treatment, where did you go?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I went to change. I was soaked too. When I knew she was going to
take an injury timeout, I said, I better change before I get too cold. 
 
Q. You withdrew from a tournament this summer because of the flu?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Stomach flu, yeah. 
 
Q. You have played what tournaments since Wimbledon?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I have just played -- I played couple of exos and Fed Cup, and L.A. 
 
Q. Are you satisfied with that or would you --
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Well, I didn't do too well in L.A.. I lost my first round. I'd wish
I could have played more matches there. Obviously, not playing Canada hurt me too, but,
you know, you got to deal with the cards you are dealt, and just hopefully get through my
matches here. I have a tough second match now too. So I will get through that and
hopefully I will be in good shape. 
 
Q. Going to take your mind back to that really rough umpire overrule on the third game
in the second set.
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Yeah. 
 
Q. What was going through your mind at that point?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I felt I got -- it was a game point for her. I come back from
Love-40 to 30-Love, and every point counts against Judith and every game counts. I felt
that on that sideline I got a bad call; on the other side too. So a little aggravating
when they overrule on a big point, and it is on the far side, you just wonder what goes
through their head when they do that. 
 
Q. Did it help you resolve in the next game or not?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: No. I was like, great, I am down 3-Love now. You know, I am pretty
good about that. I get a little frustrated at the time, but I get over it pretty fast.
Every match is where they go in your favor and you have your matches where they don't. 
 
Q. Do you like playing on stadium court?
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Yeah. I like it a lot. I have had good matches on that stadium. You
play well when you have done well on that court it is smaller than the center court. So I
think it is better. The crowd is a little closer to the court. 
 
Q. Why do you think you are so good at comebacks coming back from --
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I think just because mentally I hang in there, and I was taught
from very early on to never give up no matter what the score is, and, you know, this is a
Grand Slam and if you can't hang in there in a Grand Slam, then you shouldn't can playing
the game. 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT