U.S. OPEN
August 31, 1994
Mary Joe Fernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Mary Joe, I thought the key was your serve and volley really-- in the last two
points, was that a conscious decision or just a serve that went so wide -- 
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I definitely decided before I started to serve and volley. Whether
it was a very thoughtful choice or not is a good question, but it worked well and I had
that whole match and the entire stretch anything can happen and I thought, well, I'd
rather have her come up with a big shot than myself or have me run around the baseline. So
I hit two good serves and fortunately I was able to knock off the volley.  
 
Q. Patty predicted that after this match you're ready to die? 
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: It was a long one. You know, hopefully I won't die from it, but we
did a lot of running out there and fortunately -- I feel pretty fit, the weather helped,
it is not that hot out there. So, I got a day off in between, that should give me enough
strength for my next match.  
 
Q. Your break point, it's almost every set; four in the seventh game, were you getting
frustrated or you were thinking eventually -- 
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I figured eventually I'm going to connect, I'm going to break, but
an unforced error, there was one return which I shouldn't have missed. All the other
points she played them well. She was playing good points and really coming up with good
shots, so, it was frustrating because I thought I was in it, and, you know, all of a
sudden I was serving to stay in the match. So that was difficult, but I fought hard and
never gave up and at the end I guess I played pretty courageous. The serve and volley was
important.  
 
Q. Shortly before that, you had a couple second serves that weren't that hard, 67 or
something that she put back into the net; were there a lot of games going on, wheels
turning, nerves, trying to figure out what she was expecting and all that stuff? 
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Well, she was attacking my serve pretty well. She likes to run
around the forehand and nail it. So, in the tiebreak I figured, well, make her hit a
harder shot. If she comes up with a good shot on that, that's good, and she missed that
one and then vice versa. I said, well, I'm going to run around and hit her second serve to
go 5-3 and that was the big point.  
 
Q. Mary Joe, you're one of the few younger players who finished high school; what are
your thoughts about the minimum age, the eligibility rule? 
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: That's a tough issue to decide upon. I'm very pro education and
finishing high school and, you know, what age to play on the circuit I can't say. I think
everybody develops and grows at a different age. For myself, I know that I would have been
ready to play full-time on the circuit at 14, and for me staying in school was a priority,
and you know, I'd like to see more girls finish school. Tennis is a short career, and
there could be injuries and all sorts of causes that make you stop playing, and I think
you have been to prepared for life after tennis, and, you know, I think that's something
that should be emphasized. But what age? I can't say what age.  
 
Q. Even though you're still obviously young and you've been around and you've been hurt
a lot, are you at all surprised that you're still playing and that you -- 
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: No. I feel because I stayed in stool I feel very fresh. I didn't
start playing full-time until I was about 18, so, you know, this is just about my fourth
or fifth year out here and I still could improve and that keeps me going. I was a little
unfortunate with health problems in the last year, but God willing, I'll get stronger and
be able to play for a long time.  
 
Q. How far are you from playing your best tennis with all the health problems? 
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I thought I was on the road last year at this time. I arrived at
the French Open, I was making a bit of a breakthrough and really competing with the top
players and I had a bit of a setback, but I think it's going to take time now. It is a
little bit like starting over. I have to get back the mentality of playing aggressive, and
basically just getting a real long patch of playing a lot. I haven't had that in a while.
I think that's tough, but I feel healthy now and hopefully starting here it's going to
bring a long streak of good luck.  
 
Q. Would you say you had a bit of a setback. It's been said you had a hellacious time
with it? 
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: It's been discouraging. I didn't play here last year and I had
surgery a few weeks after and I was out of the game. I was not doing anything for three or
four months, so that set me back. And the beginning of this year was tough not playing on
and off. I played a couple weeks take off a couple weeks. So there's an lot of that and
fortunately a couple weeks ago I played Canada and I got the flu which was-- everybody was
like, gee, you're sick again, and it was the only normal sickness I've had in a long time.
But besides that, I've been feeling pretty well.  
 
Q. Yesterday one of the players said that she wished she had stayed in school. And that
she missed the prom and friendships and she's learning -- 
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I missed the prom and all that too.  
 
Q. But she said she's learning now there's plenty of time to play tennis? 
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: That's true.  
 
Q. Do you hear that a lot from players just because you're friendly and talk to
players; is it something that-- 
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I think I hear a little more of it now. There's so much pressure,
so much money in the game that, you know, parents try to get you out to try to peek really
early, and I think traditionally in the past, a woman peeks in her mid 20s. That's when
they're supposed to be at the prime of their career, and you start so young, to expect so
much from a young person is difficult. If you go through it moderately and just really
pace yourself, you can prolong your career and just play a lot longer.  
 
Q. At what age do you see yourself retiring; have you thought about it? 
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I thought about it a lot. I think before I had all this time off
last year I would just say, well, I'm 24, 25, I'll play eleven years on the tour, but
having forced time off, I realize I really enjoy what I do and I'm fortunate to do what I
do and it kind of changed my perspective on things and it's like, now, well, as long as
God gives me the health and strength to play, I'm going to play as long as I can. As long
as I feel I'm improving, I think that will keep me going. No numbers. So, I'm not
predicting an age.  
 
Q. In the context of the discussion about the health of women's tennis and what an
important role Monica Seles played, there are those suggesting that Seles is being
forgotten; do you detect she's still on the minds of the woman players? 
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I think no matter what happens she's going to be regarded as one of
the best players ever. She dominated the game for those couple years that she played and I
don't think she'll be forgotten at all and especially how tragically she had to stop. So
we're all praying she comes back and she desires actually to come back. If not, that's
fine too. But I think people miss her as they miss her tenacity and how good she was. She
was pretty amazing, the style of play she had and just how accurate she was with her
shots.  
 
Q. So you don't think that women's tennis would be better to forget the Capriatis and
Seleses and try to move on? 
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I think that happens automatically. I think, you know, that's
happened in the past-- Evret goes out-- there's going to be a new generation of players.
We're going to see it. There's a lot more depth in the game than there was before. It's
been coming a little more of a power game. The Grafs and the Pierces, that kind of style,
Davenport, that -- that's kind of changing it. That's what's happening. It's moving to
that style of play. And there's always going to be new faces. People are still going to
remember there are good athletes from the past.  
 
Q. Can you give an early or look ahead at the-- at your side of the draw? When it was
made Mary Carillo put out a few ideas that it was the unpredictable side of the draw, she
actually suggested you might make a run if you were healthy or Conchita could get on a
roll; is Gaby a factor? 
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I'm in a tough section of the draw and it just gets tougher, so I
have to contend with my next match. I think it's Grossman or Maleeva, but if I get through
that, I have to play Sanchez, and she or Graf is favored to win. So, whether it's wide
open or not, it could be. I think I'll win more matches, but they're tough matches. Gaby
seems to be playing very well and Conchita as well. So I'll take it one day at a time and
take it as best I can.  
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT