U.S. OPEN
August 29, 1994
Mary Joe Fernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. It is nice to be back then? 
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: It is great to be back. I really missed playing here last year. It
was kind of the beginning of my downfall last year physically and, you know, I was looking
forward to playing well and had that good summer getting into the finals of the French. It
was very disappointing dropping out last year, so this year I have been pretty eager to
come here for a while now. And it was a little bit ironic. Last year I was supposed to
play at night as well on stadium and I started off that way this year, so that was nice.
And it was nice to get through that. I think it was one of the toughest matches I could
have drawn and not having -- I haven't played too much recently, so I am fortunate that I
played well enough to win that.  
 
Q. So you actually were in the tournament last year, you didn't pull out before the
making of the draw? 
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Right.  
 
Q. You got down early? 
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Yes.  
 
Q. What was going through your head at that point? 
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Well, like I said, I mean, I knew I was going to have a tough time
when I played, when I have been on the top of my game; I have played Sabine and had very
close matches and she is coming off doing really well this summer, and I just knew it was
going to be tough, so I tried not to get discouraged. I was like, well, I am going to have
to play well to win this; it is not going to be one of those matches where she is going to
get nervous and give it to me. I am really going to have to win. I thought I was hitting
the ball well. First couple of games, I was in there. I said I got to convert one of these
games and I am in the match. Luckily, I think that happened at 4-1. It was a long game. I
think that was a big game because I could have gone down 5-1; stayed in there 4-2; it was
a different ballgame.  
 
Q. You said that this was -- started the downfall really last year. How far do you
think you have fallen from a year ago? 
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Quite a bit. I didn't play anything after this last year. I ended
up playing the Championships at the end of the year but really came back too soon and this
year I have been off a lot. I really haven't played that much, and I haven't had a long
streak of tournaments yet, so I am looking at this as the beginning of a good streak and
beginning of a healthy period for myself and just feeling strong again. I think, you know,
it is going to take time again. But I think being off so much allows you to appreciate the
game all that much more, and helped me realize that I Love to play and I am more eager
now; I am more fresh.  
 
Q. You have had more injuries this year? 
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: It has been the same. I haven't had injuries like pulls or sprains.
Because of the surgery last year I have had a tough time dealing with the medication,
during the year and all the stuff you have to go through. Hopefully that patches over and
now it is a good spell for me.  
 
Q. September surgery last year? 
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: October, like two weeks after this, I had it, actually.  
 
Q. You say you are eager. Is the eagerness a little bit because of maybe the
uncertainty or how this draw is sort of opening or possibly opening up with Graf here;
without Martina; without Capriati; without Seles? 
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I think-- I mean, I was eager to eager to be out there and working
hard again and competing. I think that is the main thing and in respect of this
tournament, I am just taking it one day at a time. I have a very tough draw. It started
today, and every match is going to get tougher, and it is going to be rough, but like I
said, I am going to take it one day at a time and we will see. I am excited. If I play
well, I think I have a good chance.  
 
Q. Is it more wide open? 
 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I think so. You still have to go with the favorites; still have to
go with the Graf or the Sanchez Vicario, but you know, I think players in the back of
their minds have a shot at it. On any given day, anything can happen, and, you know, there
is tough girls in the field. It is not like it used to be where the top seeds pretty much
got to where they were supposed to get. You know, I think we are seeing everyday more and
more more upsets and more depth in the game.  
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT