VIRGINIA SLIMS CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 15, 1993
Mary Joe Fernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Has it been harder than you thought to come back? 
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  Not really.  I mean, I pretty much knew what I was in for and what I'm in for in the future, still.  
 

Q.  Mary Joe, you had a little operation after the U.S. Open? 
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  Yes.  
 

Q.  During this time? 
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  Yes.  
 

Q.  What kind of -- abdominal? 
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  Yes.  
 

Q.  Is an abdominal operation? 
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  Yes.  
 

Q.  And that's fully recovered, hundred percent? 
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  Pretty much.  
 

Q.  Do you have any pain? 
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  No.  
 

Q.  How rusty -- to what extent are you playing to your ability, what is it that -- 
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  I feel I'm playing pretty well.  I started playing about-- you know, four, five weeks ago, played in tournaments a couple weeks ago, I feel like I'm hitting the ball pretty well, still a bit weak and still a bit slow, especially on these courts, they are fairly quick.  You have to be moving well to the ball and I'm a step slow and get there a little late, so I'm out of the point if I don't hit a good shot right away, then I'm the one on the defense all the time.  
 

Q.  In the third set when you were-- when it was 1-All and all, did you feel-- or 2-1 you had-- sorry-- I'm sorry, when you got to 3-All, did you still feel that you had a pretty good chance of winning? 
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  I felt that I was in the match.  I mean, after-- in the second set after 2-1 I thought I started playing better, hitting the ball a lot harder, and I was taking control of the points and third shot starting playing better making a few errors and I think I played a couple more errors.  It was very quick, so have you to put a lot of pressure on her and it's one big-- the break in the third she served well, and that was it, it's over.  
 

Q.  What do you find-- she's a little girl and in a sense for her size and all what makes her so-- good? 
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  I think her speed is the main thing, she's very quick on the court, she's a smart player.  She moves the ball around very well, and you know, hits the ball on the rise pretty much, she had a very good year, and I think, like I said before, her quickness helps her a lot to get to a lot of balls and stay in a lot of points.  
 

Q.  Did you ever feel in control of the match or was it a struggle throughout the whole match? 
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  Well, it was weird even though it was, you know, I was lost 6-1 then on one 6-1 it was pretty close I thought it was even throughout and in the third set maybe if I would have got an early lead it would have made a difference, but you know, we played tied for a while and then she got that break which came in late in the set and it's always harder to get back into it after you lose--  
 

Q.  Right before that you fought off three breakpoints? 
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  That was a big game for me to hold and, you know, I needed to break her and I didn't do that.  
 

Q.  I take it this is your last tournament, I mean, there aren't any more? 
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  There aren't anymore.  
 

Q.  You're right, so how do you feel about your whole year? 
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  I feel very pleased.  You know, I basically played first half of the year.  I didn't play too much the second half and, you know, the highlight was definitely the finals in the French.  That gave me a lot of confidence, in myself knowing I can play with the top players and hopefully beat them back to back, and before that, I played well on the clay, and then, you know, last halfway a bit unfortunate, can't do much about health problems, but you just have to take it and you know, now it's a little bit starting over again and like you said it's going to be a long road back and I was happy to be feeling well and happy to be playing again.  
 

Q.  Do you have to go back for checkups? 
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  Yes.  
 

Q.  How often? 
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  Every three months.  
 

Q.  Thank you. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT