U.S. OPEN
September 8, 1992
Mary Joe Fernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.   How do you feel about playing Seles in the next round?

 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  Well, I feel good.  I am happy to be playing
against her.  It is going to be a tough match, but I have been
playing well.  I played well today; last couple of matches, pretty
more aggressive.  I feel all right going into it.

 Q.   Your thoughts on the match today, Mary Joe. You have
been walking around all week just like you were going to do some
damage.

 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  It didn't look like that in the beginning
of the tournament.  First few matches were a little rough for
me.  So I think after I got through those, I felt a little bit
lucky to still be here.  And I am taking advantage of it now.
 I have played aggressive.  I have gotten more of my shots, and
I played well today.  It was a tough match. Even though it seemed
like I was winning easily at the beginning, she was still playing
well, and she got more aggressive, and you know, third set, it
could have really gone either way.

 Q.   You lost, I think, six of the previous seven matches
to her, something like that; she dominated you for a while.  What
was different today?  Why do you think you were able to put it
together?

 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  Well, last time I played her on hard court,
I won.  I feel confident in that aspect.  I knew that I had to
play aggressive.  She has been playing aggressively. That is why
she has been winning so much.  I didn't want her to be running
me around, coming in and making the shots.  I started off really
well.  That is what I was doing in the middle; didn't make many
mistakes.  She thought that, I think, gee, I have to be doing
this.  Then she started doing it.  It went back and forth.  It
was whoever got the opportunities, short ball, was being the aggressor.
 At the end, I just really came in as much as I could.  Tried
to keep it away from--

 Q.   Personal observation.  You have been a different person,
actually playing much, much better since you won that gold medal
in Barcelona.

 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  You think so?     

 Q.   Yes.

 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  Well, I don't know if I am different.  I
feel confident.  I played well in Barcelona, and you know, I have
played enough matches to feel confident.

 Q.   Because this is the American championships, does it have
more significance to beat her here?  You have got the crowd now;
you are the last American left.

 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  It meant a lot because last time I played
her out there, she beat me in the semis.  That was a big match,
that you know, stood with me for a very long time. So, you know,
during the match today, I thought about it actually a few times,
and I didn't want that to happen again.  So I'm glad now that
we are even.

 Q.   It is an obvious question.  Did it stay with you for
so long?

 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  It was a big match for me.  I have been
playing well.  I was up against her.  I actually-- I had beaten
her like four out of five last times we played, so I felt I really
should have won that match.  And she changed her tactics on me,
you know.  I was up 4-1, 4-0; she started coming in on everything.
 I freaked out a little bit.  I ended up losing the third; it
was an emotional match.  And she ended up winning the tournament
which made it a little worse for me.     

 Q.   She broke through by coming in and being much more aggressive
in that tournament.  You started doing that.  Harold is pushing
you to do that.  When she did that signal to you that, you know,
as the years were going by, that she did it; she succeeded?

 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  Definitely.  She has been a great example
for me because she went through a period where she lost a lot
of matches, and she stuck with her, you know, with her game plan
and what she needed to do to improve.  And I don't think I've
done it quite to the extent she has, but I know that is what I
have to do, and hopefully, you know, I will do it more and more.


 Q.   Mary Joe, we are going to naturally say upset, mild upset,
whatever.  Do you consider this an upset in your mind?

 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  Definitely.  You know, she is ranked three
or four in the world and I am behind her.  So I think everybody
expected her to win it.  I knew I had a chance and I was confident
going into it, but I think it was an upset.

 Q.   Could you describe the point where you got the umpire
to overrule the ball, the overhead on the line?

 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  At the end?

 Q.   The game that was 30-All and I think in the 9th game.

 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  Oh, I hit a forehand, or a serve and volley.
 I saw it good.  And I think it was good and I think the guy called
it out; after a while she overruled it.

 Q.   Did you have a sense that she was maybe not as mentally
tough as she has been since she hasn't played and there was just
kind of an up and down quality to her?

 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  No.  Not really.  I think Gaby is one of
the toughest players out there.  She never gives up and she always
finds ways to win even if she is not playing well. And you know,
she fought 'till the end, and you know, she played well.  I thought
it was a good match for both of us.

 Q.   Are you two very good friends or know each other--

 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  I would say we are good friends.  I have
known Gaby since I am eight or nine.  We get a long really well.


 Q.   What was said at the net at the end there once you had
won?

 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  Just you know, congratulations; good luck;
you played well, stuff like that.

 Q.   The first thing you said in here that "the first
few matches were a little rough for me."  Have you played
this poorly early on in the Open before, coming into this sort
of match?

 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  I have played poorly here almost every year,
except two years ago.  I don't know -- the year I got to the semis,
I think I played well throughout every match. And this year, you
know, I struggled in the beginning, and you know, I hung in there
and fortunately got through.

 Q.   What do you consider your best win that you ever had
to this point?

 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  I guess it would have to be Gaby.  I mean,
I have beaten Monica but before she was number one.

 Q.   Gaby at another time meaning--

 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  You mean when?

 Q.   Yeah, the biggest win.

 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  What match?

 Q.   Yes.

 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  That is hard to say.  It could be, you know,
Gaby this year, in Australia.  That was a big one, semis of the
Grand Slam.

 Q.   You were saying before that you know, that it is not
really your personality to, you know, push and sort of dictate
things and be so aggressive and anything else.  You were saying
that a couple of days ago.  Can you explain that because you have
had a change in your personality?

 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  I don't think my personality has changed.
 I know now that on the court I have to be the aggressor.  I can't
be the one just to get the ball back and wait for things to happen
to me, you know.  I don't think that it has anything to do with
the way I am.

 Q.   I mean on the court.

 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  On the court, yeah, I know that in order
to play with top players and beat them and go to that next step,
that is what I have to do.  It is hard because I have played my
game style for so many years that it is hard to break that pattern.


 Q.   You said you know Gaby since you were eight or nine.
 Did you play her?

 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  Yes, almost every Orange Bowl and Sport
Goofey.

 Q.   Were you instant friends or did she beat you all the
time?

 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  I think we were about even, you know, in
the junior days.

 Q.   Was there ever any tension or was it always good nature
conversation?

 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  Always good natured.

 Q.   They keep talking about you making your big breakthrough.
 Do you feel that this is it?

 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  Well, you know, this is one step towards
it, definitely.  These are the kinds of matches I need to win
to keep developing my game and keep improving, so, this is definitely
a positive step for me.

 Q.   Thank you.     


 End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT