NBA DRAFT
June 27, 2013
Mason Plumlee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MASON PLUMLEE
  Brooklyn, No. 22 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Opening statement, feelings about getting drafted by the Nets, please.   
MASON PLUMLEE:   Very excited about the Nets.   I didn't work out for them during the pre‑draft process, but who wouldn't want to play here?   The buzz they have going here, the veterans.   Really, I thought they had a good season this season.   Jason Kidd coming on as the coach, it's a dream come true to be in a situation like this.   
   
 Q.   Mason, first of all, congratulations.   When you and I talked in May, we talked about the ideal scenario for you was a veteran team that was ready to win.   Could you have picked a more veteran situation?   
MASON PLUMLEE:   I sure couldn't.   I mean, I'm so excited looking forward to summer league, camp, all that.   It's coming at me real fast.   I'm just excited about it.   
   
 Q.   Mason, I know you didn't work out for the Nets.   Was there a range you were expecting to get drafted in?   And how has the night been for you overall?   
MASON PLUMLEE:   Based on my workouts, I figured I would go somewhere between 10 and 20.   Those are the teams that I worked out for.   But I'm just as happy here as I would have been in any of those places.   
I'm ready to play some basketball.   
   
 Q.   Did you start getting nervous as things went along?   
MASON PLUMLEE:   Yeah, I mean, nervous, just anxious.   Whatever.   A lot of emotions.   I couldn't be happier with the result.   
   
 Q.   Do you think you could take Coach Kidd on one‑on‑one?   
MASON PLUMLEE:   That's my coach (laughing).   I don't want to speak on that right away.   No, he's a hell of a player.   If I can hang with him, I'll be all right.   
   
 Q.   Mason, talk about how your experience with such a rich program and also how your experience in college basketball can help you be able to be ready to play at this level immediately.   
MASON PLUMLEE:   One thing I've always been proud of as a player is coming from‑‑ in high school I was part of a winning program.   And then in college I was part of a winning program.   That doesn't mean we always won championships, but more often than not there's a standard of winning, of excellence, whatever you call it.   
You leave those places with certain things.   So I feel I've been a fit for both of those situations.   My high school coach, coach David Gaines and my college coach Mike Krzyzewski.   
   
 Q.   You played for Coach Krzyzewski, as did your new general manager Billy King‑‑  
MASON PLUMLEE:   As did Jason Kidd.   
   
 Q.   Have you talked with any of those guys or Coach K about how that play may out?   
MASON PLUMLEE:   I interviewed with the Nets at the combine in Chicago.   I've seen Billy a couple of times down on campus.   Never talked to Jason Kidd.   So...   
   
 Q.   Just describe your game overall.   What do you think you have to work on to become the player you want to be in the NBA?   And what do you feel are your strengths right now?   
MASON PLUMLEE:   My strengths right now are being athletic, getting up and down the floor, getting on the boards and finishing on the rim.   
Things I have to work on is I have to be able to knock down shots consistently.   That's not something I did in college.   I didn't attempt jumpshots.   I think that's something that can add a whole new dimension to my game.   
   
 Q.   I know this team has gone through a lot of roster changes, trade rumors.   What do you envision your role being on this team going into next year?   
MASON PLUMLEE:   I'm just happy to be a part of the team right now.   We'll figure all that out come camp.   But I'm a basketball player, you put me on the floor, I'm going to play my game.   We'll go from there.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT