WNBA ALL-STAR GAME
July 15, 2007
Jenny Boucek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   COACH BOUCEK:  I hope it was a fun game.  You know, definitely high scoring, and some excitement at the end.  So, you know, that's what it's all about, is trying to have an exciting game for the fans.   
  
  Q.  I just wanted to talk a little bit about the defensive effort.  Was it intentional because it is an All-Star Game to maybe just turn it on a little bit in the second half instead of coming out full throttle in the first?   
 COACH BOUCEK:  Yeah, it's a little bit ambiguous as to what we're doing here in terms of how much are we competing and how much are we trying to have a show.  And so, it can be a little bit awkward at times, because the players want to win, but they also want to put on a good show.   
 But it definitely picks up, you know, towards the end.  They're all competitors, and they all definitely want to win, so, yeah.   
  
  Q.  Are you finding these events, at least we've seen over the years, that the women seem to be more competitive on both teams in this game than you find in a lot of the other sports?   
 COACH BOUCEK:  It appears that way.  You know, I think most other sports, you know, they're not playing defense.  They're allowing each other to do things, and our women are just too inately competitive, I think.  They can't turn that off.  I love that about them.  I think I love that about the WNBA, they compete every second of every game.   
 So when we come here and we ask them to not do that as much, I don't know if they're quite able to do it.  They still want to compete.  And I think that's one of the beautiful things about our league.   
  
  Q.  Just talk a little about Tina Thompson's play.   
 COACH BOUCEK:  She played great.  You know, she's a legend.  She's a legend in the making still playing, and I think we take her for granted because she's been around since day one.  But she's been one of the most consistent performers in the WNBA since day one.  And one of the most consistent people.  And so, it's great to see her get honored in that way, and for the world to see what she's capable of doing.  At least scratching the surface of what she's capable of doing.  But she does that every night.  That's who she is.  Consummate professional.   
  
  Q.  You must see that competitive edge in Becky a lot, especially towards the end?   
 COACH BOUCEK:  Becky, which?  Becky Hammon?   
  
  Q.  Yeah.   
 COACH BOUCEK:  Oh, yeah, I mean she's the ultimate competitor, absolutely.  We have a lot of them.  I mean, I could go down the list on this team.  I've coached several of them in the regular season, and I know we had some of the greatest competitors in the world out there on the floor tonight.  So, you know, you saw that come out in full force at the end of the game, bodies flying everywhere.   
  
  Q.  Can you actually get caught up in this game and lose your responsibilities as a coach and just be a fan?   
 COACH BOUCEK:  What are you asking again now?   
  
  Q.  Can you lose your responsibilities as a coach and enjoy this game as a fan?   
 COACH BOUCEK:  I didn't do a very good job of that tonight.  I was stressed out like a normal game.  You know, I'm a competitor, too.  So it's hard for me to turn it off, too.  So you try to keep it in perspective as an All-Star Game.  But for me, it was definitely hard.  And I wanted to win it, too.  But I also wanted everybody to enjoy the experience, and so it is a tough balance, you know.  And I'm sure, hopefully I'll get a chance to do it again, and I'll keep learning how to do this better, as well as everything else I'm learning how to do right now.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Coach, thank you very much.   
 COACH BOUCEK:  You're very welcome.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT