AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2015
Benjamin Becker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  B. BECKER/L. Hewitt2-6, 1-6, 6-3, 6-4, 6-2An interview with:BENJAMIN BECKERTHE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. What were you telling yourself after the first two sets?BENJAMIN BECKER: Yeah, I mean, I felt like I wasn't really playing well.  I mean, yeah, he was playing well.  He was on his game.  He didn't miss at all from the back.  I just tried to stay in there.  First of all, I wanted to make it a good match.  I was a little bit embarrassed to be down 6-2, 5-1 or 6-1.  I wanted to, yeah, get into the groove, play my game that I know I can play, try to fight.  Obviously the break in the third set was big for me, gave me confidence, I started to play better.  From that point on I felt like I was back to my game.Q. Do you feel that was the one turning point?BENJAMIN BECKER: I already felt better after the toilet break and coming back and playing the third set.  I felt my shots had more pop on them, I was more into the court, maybe dictating a few more points.  The break gave me a lot of confidence.  Once I got the third set under my belt, I felt like I have a big chance to win.Q. The commentator said at the end of the match it was your first-ever five-set victory.  Are you surprised it came against someone whose five-set record is so famous?BENJAMIN BECKER: I don't know his five-set record.  I knew mine.  I just know there are not that many chances anymore for me to win a five-set match, especially to win after being two sets to love down.  I always wanted to do it and I'm glad I did it here.  It was a big stage as well.  For me I'm glad to get the monkey off my back.Q. Next is Raonic.  Have you thought about that much yet?BENJAMIN BECKER: Not yet at all.Q. What did it feel like in the first two sets compared to what it felt like in the last two sets?BENJAMIN BECKER: The first two sets I felt like I wasn't getting into the rallies where I wanted to be, I didn't see the ball.  Every time I wanted to go for a big shot I was not in the right position to do it.  My legs weren't there.  The court seemed very small for me but big for him.  In the third set I felt like my shots were deeper.  I was getting into the right position to hit the shots.  After I hit a few winners, I felt like I was seeing the ball earlier, my legs were better, I had more tension in the body which wasn't there the first two sets.  It changed quickly.  I don't know how I did it.  But I tried to, yeah, memorize what I did and tried to keep that going.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT