WIMBLEDON
June 24, 2013
Benjamin Becker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/B. Becker
  6‑4, 6‑3, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How was the match? 
BENJAMIN BECKER:   Tough question a few minutes after the match.   Obviously disappointed I lost.   I feel like I tried to be aggressive.   I was a little bit overaggressive some parts, but I knew that was going to happen. 
I played the I way wanted to play.   I wanted to come to the net more than I did, but he played very solid.   He moved very well.   I couldn't get him out of balance.   It was tough for me to really take control of the points. 
I wanted to play a little bit more consistent and have a little bit more net attacks in my game, but in the end I just have to say he was too good.

Q.   Is the problem playing him that you have to go for massive shots all the time, because normal shots he'll get back? 
BENJAMIN BECKER:   Yeah.   One problem is he gets everything back; another problem is that he returns every serve.   You have to hit the lines almost to get the serve by him, no matter how fast it is. 
He makes you play a lot.   He's very comfortable moving on grass, which not many guys are because it's not that easy getting out of the corners and changing directions.   He makes it tough on you.
He hits the ball flat, stays flat.   He likes to play with angles, and it makes it tough on you.   So you over hit sometimes.   And I did it a few times and you know you're going to do it, it's just how many times.   I made a few more mistakes than I wanted to. 

Q.   Did it help you at all having played him at Queen's? 
BENJAMIN BECKER:   Not really.   I practiced with him before.   I know his game.   Maybe it helped him to know me a little bit better. 
Obvious we practiced before.   So I don't know.   I mean, I know how he plays.   It helped me maybe a little bit to play the center court of Queen's, which is also a big atmosphere, a big thing on grass.   I've never played on a big stage on grass I guess in England. 
So maybe it helped me to be a little bit more comfortable out there. 

Q.   Obviously you didn't enjoy the result, but did you enjoy the Centre Court experience? 
BENJAMIN BECKER:   Yeah.   When we walked on I really enjoyed it.   It was one of my dreams always to play on the big Centre Court.   Growing up and being a fan of Boris Becker obviously you always see the Centre Court.   That's the first court you have in mind when you get asked about a tennis court.
So for me, to walk on was a great moment for me.   I would have at least liked to win a set or make it a tougher match and enjoy it a little bit more in the end, but for me it was a great honor to play on the court.   Hopefully I get that chance again.

Q.   How far do you think Murray can go in the tournament now? 
BENJAMIN BECKER:   He played final last year and won Olympics.   It's up to him.   He's a great grass court player.   You know, if he keeps up his game and stays focused, obviously he can go all the way. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT