US OPEN
September 3, 2006
Benjamin Becker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






THE MODERATOR: Questions. Q. What did he say to you?BENJAMIN BECKER: I don't know what he said. Such an emotional moment for me, too. I was going to say more to him, too. At the moment, I was speechless. I didn't know how to react, what to say. I actually don't remember what he told me. Q. It never seemed you were nervous. BENJAMIN BECKER: No, I was. I definitely was at the beginning. Why I play the way I actually wanted to play, more aggressive. I missed a few more balls. Yeah, I mean, it was a great atmosphere out there. It was a great experience for me to play out there. I felt like I handled it pretty well with all the distractions. I'm pleased with that. Q. I realize it doesn't compare with 200 Texas Tech fans standing on the next court, but can you describe what it was like to walk out on the court?BENJAMIN BECKER: It was a great moment for me. When we walked out, I had goosebumps. He had a breakpoint, I think I remember in the fourth set, it was really loud. You can't be that loud. I got goosebumps right before I started serving. It was an unbelievable feeling walking out, feeling that kind of support, even though it was for him, how the crowd was into it. Yeah, that was a lot of fun. Q. How does it feel to go down in history as the guy who ended Andre's career?BENJAMIN BECKER: I don't know. I haven't really thought about it. It was a tough moment, an emotional moment for me, too. I was happy obviously. At the same time I was sad. I didn't know really what to do, how to react. Yeah, I mean, I never really had the thought in my mind that it could be the last one we played against, even before my last service game. I really tried to stay focused and not think about it. I mean, yeah, I was surprised, too, how cool I was at the end, too, that I was trying to focus.Yeah, it's a once in a lifetime experience for me. Q. Any moment where he ceased being Andre Agassi on the other side of the net and became just your opponent?BENJAMIN BECKER: At the beginning, as I said before, it felt like I was going to (indiscernible), somehow me myself in a computer, you're playing against Agassi. Yeah, after a while you get more used to it so you see him as an opponent, you see it just as another tennis match. I mean, it's tough. The whole atmosphere is tough. You're looking over and you see Agassi, who you know the strokes, the way he looks, the way he moves. It was tough. Let's say the middle of the first set, I was trying I was getting more interested in seeing it as another tennis match, I wasn't really looking that much to see who I was playing. Q. Have you called someone after the match?BENJAMIN BECKER: I haven't checked my phone yet. I was sitting down there with my coach, one of my friends. I try to rehydrate, try to drink, eat a little bit, not really realizing what I did, but just kind of regaining energy, even mentally, too, because it's mentally draining. Q. You're playing tennis for so many years, but you really only got the media attention this year playing your second Grand Slam, now, of course, you play Andre Agassi. Was it difficult for you because you have a late start, you're 25 years old? BENJAMIN BECKER: It's different to play in these kind of tournaments, obviously, but especially Wimbledon helped me to get more used to it. My coaches really talked me into just focusing on my tennis, not really wondering where I was playing, who I was playing, just really trying to focus on tennis, playing your game and everything. I'm really surprised how I'm handling, too. I just hope, yeah, it can go on. Q. The other day somebody asked you what there is to do culturally in Waco, Texas. I think you said, Maybe you can go to the Dr. Pepper museum. Have you ever been there?BENJAMIN BECKER: No, I haven't actually. Everybody said you should go because the drink is really good that you get right there. I didn't go. Why I really do too much in Waco. I was more at the university. Yeah, I didn't really explore the city that much. Q. How many years were you there?BENJAMIN BECKER: Four years.Q. Did you get a diploma?BENJAMIN BECKER: One semester. I have one semester left. I started I did some interdependent studies the beginning of this year, spring semester. I have like 18 hours left, but I actually have to go to university. Attendance policies says I can't do it while I travel. So I have to go back to get my degree. Q. Will you?BENJAMIN BECKER: I want to, yes. Definitely.Q. You hit a beautiful dropshot. You got booed. Were you sort of amused by that?BENJAMIN BECKER: No, I wasn't amused. It was tough to handle. You could tell his back was hurting. You could tell he wasn't moving as well as the last two matches. It was tough to handle then, trying to go for your shots, be aggressive. You could tell he had pain, he was trying everything he could. I had so much respect for that. The dropshot is more instinct. You see the opponent is further away from the line, you hit the dropshot. Of course, you start thinking about it. On the tennis court, you're just trying to win. You're out there to win. That's what I tried to do today. I understand the crowd. I understand them. I just tried to not think about it. Hopefully they weren't that mad at me. It was just an instinct. I didn't really say, I have to hit a dropshot because he's hurting. That wasn't my intention. Q. Your residence is listed as Miami. That's your full time home?BENJAMIN BECKER: I did that because my base is there now. After college, I went to Florida. My two coaches are living in Florida. I haven't really spent that much time there. Now I'm thinking about staying there and practicing, especially over the winter because of the weather. I'm going to go move there, but I haven't really I don't have an apartment yet. I'm going to be there over the winter, see what happens. It's not really my residence. It's going to be like that soon. Q. Andre said after the match he went into the locker room, all the guys were clapping for him. Who was in there? Can you describe it more?BENJAMIN BECKER: I came afterwards so I didn't hear the clapping. I saw in there, there were a lot of people there. It was kind of an awkward situation, too, me walking in. Q. Nobody clapped for you?BENJAMIN BECKER: No. I mean, it's yeah, you feel bad, too. I couldn't be really happy. You don't know how to react. I saw him there. I was getting ready to take a shower. Everybody was watching. I kind of just made my way towards my locker and sat down. It was an awkward situation. Q. No one came up to you?BENJAMIN BECKER: Some people came up to me and said congratulations, good job. It was not like everybody came up to me saying, awesome stuff, because they respect Andre, too. Yeah, I mean, it was a weird situation. Q. Can you be happy now?BENJAMIN BECKER: It's tough. I thought about it, taking a shower. Obviously I'm happy that I won. I'm happy that I move on to the next round. As I said, it's a tough situation. You know it was his last match. Such a great guy. Inspired me when I grew up. Obviously you kind of feel bad. You saw him after the match crying. You get emotional, too. You have tears in your eyes. I don't know. I'll probably be happy in a few days, I guess. Q. Who are some of the players?BENJAMIN BECKER: I don't know. I walked in the locker room. I didn't check who was standing there. There were a lot of people watching the Nalbandian match. I don't know exactly who was there. Q. What degree were you pursuing?BENJAMIN BECKER: Finance and international business. Q. There was an Italian player, Davide Sanguinetti. He didn't make any results till he was 25. 34, still playing. Do you expect yourself to be playing that much? Do you regret some years maybe you have lost staying in college or not?BENJAMIN BECKER: I would like to play that long. I would like to play as successful as he has. Yeah, I mean, I don't know what to expect now. I'm glad I can pursue my dream to be a professional tennis player. I'm glad for the time I had in college. Last two years in college especially, yeah, made me more mature, was more helpful to be out here. Looking back, I don't regret that I just started last year because I needed the time to find myself. I needed the time to be myself and grow up. I don't really look back with regrets. Q. You talked the other day about idolizing Andre and Boris. What about Steffi?BENJAMIN BECKER: Steffi, too. You're idolizing the people from the same gender. You're just looking more the men's sport. Obviously, Steffi was an unbelievable person, too, for Germany. At that time it was Stich, Becker and Graf were how tennis got popular in Germany. Obviously she's a great person, too. I mean, I grew up idolizing those two mostly. I didn't really idolize Steffi. Q. Did you find the crowd distracting? How were you able to block it out?BENJAMIN BECKER: It was tough. You could tell at the beginning I was tight. I was nervous. Yeah, I mean, the only thing is I didn't look at the scoreboard during the changeovers. It was something, I didn't really want to see myself play. I didn't really look into the stands that much. I really tried to focus on my box. I really tried to focus on the tennis court. I prepared for it. I had two days to prepare for this. I'm glad with the way I handled it. I think it was a good effort just to stay focused. It was mentally really, really tiring. Q. Your family, there were some people playing tennis or was it because of Becker?BENJAMIN BECKER: Nobody in my family played tennis or plays tennis now. I just by accident found a racquet. I watched Boris Becker play. That's how I got into tennis. Yeah, just starting mostly because of Becker and then finding a racquet. It all was maybe coincidence. Q. What do your parents do?BENJAMIN BECKER: My dad is working for the government. He's a tax officer for the government. My mom is working in a furniture store. Q. Is that the best you've ever served? Do you know what your highest serving speed is?BENJAMIN BECKER: I don't know. Most of the time I don't play where they measure the speed. I don't know. Didn't check. Q. 228. BENJAMIN BECKER: I know I served over 230 once in Halle because it was the first time I actually played on Centre Court and saw. I was looking more there than here. It doesn't matter really how big your serve is. I was just trying to place it, too, because I knew he's a good returner, one of the best ever. FastScripts by ASAP Sports

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT