NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: PHILLIES v DODGERS
October 17, 2009
Cliff Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. I don't know what your history is with the Dodgers is, but based on what you've seen of them the first few games, what do you feel is the biggest challenge for you? 
 CLIFF LEE: Obviously they've got an unbelievable lineup, which is my concern. Top to bottom it was pretty impressive, so you've got to limit your mistakes and work ahead in the count and mix speeds. If you do that, good things should happen. They're definitely a team that never gives up, too. The other day we scored five runs in the third or fourth inning, whatever it was, and kind of put some distance between us and them, and they came right back and scored that next half.
 And then the same thing later in the game, we scored three, they came right back. It's a team that never gives up and fights until the very end. You've got to stay on top of them from the top to bottom, from the first inning until the end. It's going to be a challenge and something I look forward to, and hopefully I can just give the team a chance to win. 

 Q. I know pitching in Cleveland you must have thrown in some games where the weather conditions were pretty terrible. Tomorrow night is supposed to be a pretty raw night. Can you recall any particular game where you really pitched in some bad conditions?
 CLIFF LEE: The last game I pitched. (Laughter). 
 No, it was pretty cold in Colorado, and I've pitched some cold games in Cleveland early in the year. But I think that affects the hitter more than the pitcher, I think. The pitcher is up there going. You're steadily moving around and your heart rate is up. The position players, the guys behind me and the guys having to swing the bats are more worried about the cold than I am. Like I say, once I get going and the blood is flowing and I'm up there working consistently, it's -- I don't feel the coldness. 
 Sometimes maybe the ball feels a little slick a little bit, so you've got to be conscious of that. But you know, that's why you blow on the hand, lick the fingers, hit the rosin bag, things like that, to keep some feel in your hands. But like I say, I don't think it affects the pitcher as much as it does the hitters, and the guys on the field standing there waiting for the ball to come to them. 

 Q. Obviously against the Rockies you were the Game 1 starter. Now you've had a couple games to observe the Dodgers. Is there a difference in pitching Game 1 than Game 3 in terms of preparation because you've had a couple of games to look at them?
 CLIFF LEE: Not really. I mean, Game 1 and Game 3 are both one game; they're both worth the same as far as the wins and loss goes. Whether I pitch Game 1 or Game 3 or Game 6 or whatever, I'm going to try to win every game I pitch and give the team a chance. Obviously I've had a chance to watch Cole pitch against them, and obviously Pedro pitched unbelievable, but it's kind of harder for me to compare me to him. It's a little easier with Cole because we're both left-handers. 
 Yeah, I've had a chance to watch them, so that helps a little bit. But still, whether I'm pitching 1, 3, 5, 7, whatever, I'm still going to try to give the team a chance to win. 

 Q. Tomorrow the Dodgers' starter is going to be Kuroda. Do you have any impression of him?
 CLIFF LEE: I really haven't seen him throw much at all, to be honest with you. I'm new to the National League. I haven't faced those guys since I've been here. I know he's a good pitcher, there's no doubt in that, or he wouldn't be pitching. 
 I'm not as worried about him as I am the opposing hitters. But I am going to have to hit, so I'm going to have to be somewhat aware of what he does. But like I said, I'm more worried about Manny Ramirez and Casey Blake and those guys than I am about him. 

 Q. The way Game 2 came to an end, how is the mood of the squad in terms of tomorrow and getting back on it and getting ready to go for Game 3?
 CLIFF LEE: I think we're confident. I mean, obviously we didn't like how that game turned out. I felt like we had them there and gave them a couple chances to come back, and they did. And that's what good teams do. But once the game was over, there's nothing we could do about it; it's done. The only way we can do something about it is to come out here today and prepare for tomorrow and try to win tomorrow. 
 You know, that's how we should look at it from here on out. Whether you win, lose or whatever. If we win and we don't do good personally, it really doesn't matter at this point; it's about winning. Once it's done, it's done, though. The only thing you can do is prepare for the next one. That's how I'm looking at it, and I think that's how most guys are looking at it. I think what's done is done. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT