ROLAND GARROS
May 27, 2018
Elliot Benchetrit
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








G. MONFILS/E. Benchetrit
3-6, 6-1, 6-2, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. This was your first Roland Garros.  How did you approach it against a great player?
ELLIOT BENCHETRIT: Well, I tried to prepare myself as best I could, especially after yesterday.  I knew that it was going to be a difficult match and on a large court.
So I really tried to focus on myself to make the best of the match, and I think it was the right way to prepare.
Q. After the first set, you didn't seem to be that impressed by your opponent.
ELLIOT BENCHETRIT: No.  I think I did everything I could, and I was ready to fight for each point.  I know that the first set was a good set.  The next ones weren't as good, because Gaël was stronger afterwards.
But I must say that yesterday was a very good day for me because I managed to gain a set on that same court that I played on yesterday, so I think it was a great help.
Q. After a first set like that, it was possible for you to play a match in five sets.  Were you ready to do that?
ELLIOT BENCHETRIT: Yes.  As I said, I really prepared for it, the best possible way.  I was ready to play five sets.
I was in good shape.  I was fit throughout the match even though at times -- well, there are ups and downs when you're tired, but I was totally ready to play five sets.
Q. Halys had said that he had refused the wildcard because he didn't think the level of game was good enough.  For you, you tried your luck?
ELLIOT BENCHETRIT: Yes.  I was lucky enough to get a wildcard on the final draw, and I'm really happy I got it.  I think that the result I scored showed.  I was able to beat very high-level players.  But when you have a wildcard you can be a bit stressed out, but today wasn't the case.
I felt totally up to beat my opponent.  But didn't have that many opponents on clay.  I think that if I was given this wildcard, it's that I deserved it.  And I was absolutely ready to play a match, and even though my opponent was a very good player.
Q. When you won against Nicolas Mahut in Bordeaux, you thought that you were ready to play a good player?
ELLIOT BENCHETRIT: When you're French, it's difficult not to think about Gaël Monfils.  Gaël is still one of my idols with his shots, with his stamina, with the fact that he puts on a show.  He's still a model for me, a role model for me.
But I still played, and I tried to really play my match.  Obviously I'm one of his admirers, and he's a very well-known player because we have seen a lot of his matches.
Q. What lessons can you draw from a match like this with two different stages?
ELLIOT BENCHETRIT: Well, I'm trying to be lucid.  My first set was very good, and Gaël, on his part, wasn't at his best.
But at the beginning of the second and the beginning of the third set things got trickier because by serves weren't that good.  And in my fourth set I lost my serve from the beginning, although I had good shots.
So you could say, yeah, it was a two-stage match, although the beginning of the sets was very important, because once he broke, he gained confidence.
Q. At one point you did a really strong smash.  Very spectacular.  On your face you were smiling.  Were you kind of winking at Monfils or was it your own game?
ELLIOT BENCHETRIT: No, actually it was mine.  I watched him play quite a bit, and it's a match I would have played anywhere in the world, and there wasn't a specific desire to smash like that because I was in Roland Garros.  It's something that I do often, both in training and during matches, because I'm good at it.
Q. In Bordeaux, the prize money was mentioned.  Had you thought about what you're going to do with the prize money for the rest of the season?
ELLIOT BENCHETRIT: Well, frankly, I had really forgotten about it.  I hardly didn't mention it with my friends and family, because it can be a source of stress.
I think it's important to earn that kind of money, because you're in better conditions and you can play as many tournaments as you want up until the end of the year, but I wasn't focusing on that.
Obviously I'm going to keep it for my future and try and progress as much as possible.
Q. What did you feel about your opponent's level of game?
ELLIOT BENCHETRIT: Well, Gaël hasn't been winning many matches on clay, but he does have very good stages during his matches.  I think that he needed this kind of a match to recover confidence, but I think I started better.  That's why I won the first set.  But his level of play and game throughout the match was very good.
And although I felt comfortable, he really had to try hard, because I won the first set, to continue winning the other sets.
Q. What are you thinking for the follow-up on this and the rest of this season?
ELLIOT BENCHETRIT: I have different objectives.  The first would be to try and qualify for the US Open and get as close as possible to the final draw for Roland Garros next year, which means play as many tournaments as possible and try to concentrate and think about my experience today to maintain a regular level throughout the season and line up points to be able to qualify for Roland Garros next year.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT