U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2017
Lilia Vu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Thoughts on the match?
LILIA VU: It was a grind for me.  Albane doesn't make any mistakes, and I did on the back nine.  I got tired, and I couldn't keep it in the fairway.  I couldn't keep it out.  I let it go basically, on those stretch of three holes.
Q. Did you feel any soreness?  It's a lot of golf in one week.
LILIA VU: Yeah, I woke up, and my body was really tired.
Q. And your back was sore last night?
LILIA VU: Yeah, my back.
Q. Did you get that treated at all?
LILIA VU: I like laid on my back with like my legs in the air.  I don't know, it's better for my legs and my back.  I did that for like 30 minutes.
Q. Did you get good sleep?
LILIA VU: No, I couldn't sleep until like 12:00, and then I had to wake up at 5:30.
Q. That's rough.
LILIA VU: Yeah, it was rough.
Q. Did you call any of your teammates to chat with them or did you stay quiet?
LILIA VU: Just stayed quiet.
Q. When did you feel that everything kind of shifted in her direction?
LILIA VU: Once I three-putted No. 10.  I got angry, and usually I don't, and I just let it get to me today.
Q. It didn't shake you after that you mean, your anger?
LILIA VU: Yeah, I didn't get shaky until like three more holes, and then it was too late by then.
Q. What do you think is the strength of Albane's game?
LILIA VU: She just doesn't miss any -- she doesn't have any weakness.  That's what I think is the best thing.  She hits it straight, far, she hits it on the green, and she putts well, so there's really nothing to it.  There's nothing left.
Q. And the other side is the mental --
LILIA VU: Yeah, she's really strong.  She's a good player.  Whoever is playing her tomorrow is going to have a really tough grind for sure.  She's a good player.
Q. That's part of the grind, isn't it, mentally when you know that she's just consistent and not going to make mistakes?
LILIA VU: Yeah, you kind of start making mistakes, she's going to take advantage of you, and she did.  She played well.
Q. What are you taking away from this?
LILIA VU: I honestly thought I was really tired today more than I've ever been, so maybe prep better next time, maybe work on my fitness and endurance.
Q. This is an amazing week of grinding, isn't it?
LILIA VU: Yeah.  I don't think I've ever gone this long in any tournament ever.
Q. Is your dad still in Vietnam?
LILIA VU: Yeah, he called me yesterday.  He was hoping I would make it to the finals, but it's okay.  I'm going to go see him because I leave tomorrow night to Vietnam, too.  I'm going to go see him.  Just vacation until school starts again.
Q. How long has it been since you've been there?
LILIA VU: I went last summer.
Q. And you go every summer?
LILIA VU: No, just the past few years, I guess.  I probably won't go next year, which is sad.
Q. After your spring semester last year, how is your mentality going into next season in terms of what you'd like to accomplish?
LILIA VU: My goal last year was Player of the Year, like NCAA Player of the Year, but I didn't get to compete for that because we didn't make it to the nationals, and I know that's one of the tournaments you need to compete in to get Player of the Year, so hopefully I can get a chance at that this year.  That's what my goal is.
Q. When do you go back to school?
LILIA VU: Well, we have to report back September 5th.
Q. So you'll go to Vietnam --
LILIA VU: And then come back.  Yeah, take a break for a little bit.  I'm going to the beach side of Vietnam.
Q. Get in the water as much as possible?
LILIA VU: Yeah, even out my tan.  For sure this one is really bad.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT