AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX VS INDIANS
October 5, 2016
Trevor Bauer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I know you say whenever they tell you to pitch you pitch, but does it mean anything to be pitching the first game of the ALDS?  
TREVOR BAUER: Yes, absolutely.  I got off to a good start with the team.  It's a big responsibility.  Something you grow up dreaming about doing, especially against a team as storied as the Red Sox, as good as the Red Sox are.  It should be a lot of fun, I'm really looking forward to it.   
 Q.  What is the thing you'd like the nation to know about this team that maybe they don't know already?  
TREVOR BAUER: Oh, boy, there's a lot of things I don't want them to know about the team.   
I don't know, it's going to sound cliché, but we all enjoy being around each other and being at the ballpark and having fun with each other.  I think more so than previous years.  That's something we set out to do in Spring Training, and the management has really helped cultivate that atmosphere.  The players that we have, the veteran presence, stuff like that.   
It's fun coming to the ballpark, whether it's listening to music in the clubhouse before the game or making fun of each other, whatever the case may be.   
 Q.  Ever since you came up with the Diamondbacks a few years ago you've been known to have somewhat of a nontraditional way to prepare every day.  Can you talk about your conviction in that and how that's helped you?  
TREVOR BAUER: Yeah, I think it's the same for every pitcher, they have a routine that they're confident in, and helps get them prepared to pitch.  I may do different stuff in my routine, but it's for the same purpose, so you can try to control how your body feels, have it be as repeatable as possible from start to start.   
I'm very confident in it.  I think it works for me.  I feel great.  I feel strong.   
The Indians as an organization has done a great job kind of allowing me to do that, trying to learn what it is I do.  I can be difficult to deal with sometimes, but I think they've done a good job kind of navigating that and finding a working relationship with me.   
 Q.  I'm not sure a few weeks ago any of us thought Yan Gomes would be back, and he's on the postseason roster.  How impressed are you the way he's fought to get back and what does it mean to have him around?  
TREVOR BAUER: Yeah, I think that's something you'll see the guys on the team -- a lot of work has been put in, a lot of extra hours and fighting through pain, whether it be physical or mental.  I talked to him after that first happened.  And I was like, How are you doing?  And he said, My hand is broken.  I don't mean about your hand, I mean like mentally, you've been on kind of a roller coaster ride.  And he said, Yeah, I'm kind of banged up mentally.   
So to see him come back and make the postseason roster, I'm really happy for him as an individual.  Obviously he's going to help our team.  There's no question about that.  But just on a personal side to have him be able to come back and be a part of something that he was a big part of all year and over the past couple of years that he's been here, it's really great to see for him.   
 Q.  You had one start against the Red Sox this year, what did you learn from that?  
TREVOR BAUER: I think I threw the ball well.  Pitching in Fenway is a different animal.  So hopefully I get another crack at that.  But then they have really good offense.  They have a really good team overall.  Obviously they scored the most runs or they have the best offense, or all sorts of offensive records this year.  Going up against the lineup, all the experience they have, all the postseason experience they have, the veteran presence, it's going to be a lot of fun.  But all the preparation is done at this point.  I've prepared to the best of my ability.  I've studied them, I have a game plan going in.  All that's left is to go out there and have fun.   
 Q.  If somebody had told you before the season you were going to start the season out of the bullpen and then you'd be starting Game 1 the postseason, what would you have said?  
TREVOR BAUER: I'm not sure.  I probably wouldn't have said anything.  I just would have walked away probably, knowing me and my personality.   
I don't know, that's such a hard thing to answer, because it's all in hindsight.  My mindset at that point is not anywhere close to where my mindset is at this point.  I don't really have an answer for you.   
 Q.  Does your team, do you feel like, get not as much publicity as maybe they should?  Is there a feeling you guys are trying to gain respect that maybe you haven't gotten throughout the year?  
TREVOR BAUER: No.  I think that's -- publicity is your guys's job, we're here to win ballgames.  And I think we've done a pretty good job of that and hopefully that continues.   
 Q.  You guys got very upset about a column a couple weeks ago.  Why did you get so upset about that?  
TREVOR BAUER: You know, like I said, we're here to win ballgames and we believe that we can.  That's what we're here to do.  That's our job.  That's what we're paid to do.  We enjoy doing it.  I think I answered the team has come together in a good way.  We enjoy being around each other.  That's the truth.  We enjoy being in the ballpark.  And I think that's something that we hope continues for a long time, for at least another month.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT