NL DIVISION SERIES: BRAVES VS DODGERS
October 6, 2018
Sean Newcomb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Sean, when did you find out and when you left the stadium last night, were you anticipating the possibility of starting tomorrow?
SEAN NEWCOMB: I mean, yeah, kind of just ready for anything, you know, with where we were at.  But Snit came up and talked to me on the plane before we took off, let me know that that was a possibility.  So kind of get my mind right before I kind of went to bed.
Q. Sean, how much did those couple innings the other night kind of help prepare you for what you're going to face?  I know you saw these guys earlier, but kind of get an idea what to expect tomorrow?
SEAN NEWCOMB: Yeah.  It was definitely good to get out there and just experience the playoff atmosphere, be on the road, too.  So it was loud and everything.  But definitely good to get out there, see the lineup again and kind of just kick it off in the postseason.
Q. Just wondering from -- obviously you had success against them.  How much can you rely on that?  What do you take from that going into Game 3?
SEAN NEWCOMB: Yeah, definitely going to use that to my advantage.  And they can use that to their advantage too because they've seen me throw a lot of pitches.  So it's going to go both ways.  Go out there and use my strengths and attack them.
Q. Sean, obviously the time when you were here you had the no-hitter.  What have you learned from that time period till now?
SEAN NEWCOMB: Just kind of compared to how I was feeling when things were going really well, and just seeing where I'm at, and kind of just learning from it and figuring out what I need to do to make some adjustments, if I did a pretty good job with it.
Q. Sean, so when he tells you right before you take off, do you sleep or are you at that point excited?
SEAN NEWCOMB: No, I was definitely excited, but at that point, pretty tired.  It was about 1 am, and 4 am back here.  So I was pretty tired, but definitely kept me up a little longer.
Q. What time did you get the call today?
SEAN NEWCOMB: This afternoon, between 2 and 3.
Q. And what was your reaction then?
SEAN NEWCOMB: He told me last night so I kind of had a forewarning.  But excited, ready to go.
Q. When you go back to that start on July 29th, what did you throw, 134; I think it was 102 fast balls.  Do you kind of remember what led you to that to lean on the fastball that heavily that day?  Was it a feel thing or more of a match up thing?
SEAN NEWCOMB: I'd say a little bit of both, working early and working off, and I guess I kind of just stuck with it and kind of carried through.  Obviously throwing 134 pitches would be easier having fast balls versus off speed.
Q. This isn't the first time this team has been in a tough stretch, back against the wall.  How have those previous situations kind of guided what you have talked about the past couple of days and how to help you going forward tomorrow?
SEAN NEWCOMB: Yeah.  We've been in spots where we had to win some games and had our backs against the wall.  But I think we just gotta take it one game at a time like anyone would say and just really approach it like that because we can win one game at a time.  Anyone can.
Q. Just kind of curious, because it's easy to say this is just any other start, but it's really not with what's at stake.  How does that change how you are looking at that with the gravity of the situation?
SEAN NEWCOMB: I'd say nothing more than just making me a little more fired up to get out there and attack their lineup.  I mean, nothing else really.  It's exciting.
Q. Over the last two games, you've seen this Dodgers lineup.  What have you kind of learned just from watching them over the last two games particularly and how do you expect to play that forward?
SEAN NEWCOMB: You know, just typically watching a baseball game, learn what they're looking for and see the kind of swings they're taking on certain pitches and getting the feel for how they are, good hitting team, aggressive.  Be looking for some fast balls, so they're going to come ready to swing.  They'll be ready to go.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT