SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 9, 2012
Leon McFadden
Nick Tenhaeff
Josh Wade
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 Q.   What did you guys see from King Holder making his first start?   Do you think he did well?   
LEON McFADDEN:   Yeah, he was amped up to be able to start.   He performed great.   He had minor technique issues in assignment, but overall the whole game he did good.  
   
 Q.   Josh, how is the calf?  
JOSH WADE:   Yeah, it's a lot better.   I'll practice more today.   I was limited in reps last week, but I should be able to go the whole practice today.  
   
 Q.   Leon, I'm looking at this SDSU record book, and your name is in a lot of categories and you're creeping up.   Just put your years at San Diego State, including this one, into perspective?   
LEON McFADDEN:   I didn't even know that I was creeping up in the record books, to be honest with you.   I mean, over the years I'm just going out there and playing hard.   I love the game.   Those accolades came with it.   Being in those record books or being in the standings doing that is just something that just came along with me doing it and having fun.  
   
 Q.   How has this year differed from previous years?   
LEON McFADDEN:   I guess being recognized by my peers in our conference and everything.   I feel privileged to be part of that.   And this year is my last year.   My last opportunity to be Mountain West champions, and that is the legacy I want to leave behind.   
   
 Q.   Does it almost give you a certain confidence boost when people do recognize you?   
LEON McFADDEN:   Yeah, it's definitely a confidence boost for me.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like guys up front did a better job rushing the passer last week?   
NICK TENHAEFF:   They're a young group.   They continued to make great strides and grow.   Every play we have is a major leap forward for them, and I'm happy with the performance they had.  
   
 Q.   It looked like you and Derek were pretty much always in there.   Talk about how you guys have picked up your end too?   
NICK TENHAEFF:   I think it's an entire defensive thing.   We know we have to step up our game.   We've given up too many points.   And we're working overall as a whole to try to improve.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about Derek Largent first year in the program?   What have you seen him doing to develop?   
NICK TENHAEFF:   Largent the first day he came in here he was already in the film room.   He's somebody I thought could make an impact initially.   He tries hard.   He works hard on the field.   He's a big, strong kid.   He has all the physical ability he needs, and he's going to have a bright future here?  
   
 Q.   What were some of the different things for you guys this week on defense compared to the past couple of weeks?   
JOSH WADE:   I thought coach kept it simple.   The guys were able to execute, and it was a really straightforward plan.   And we were able to fix the technical issues that were hurting us a lot more in games and we were able to play a lot better.  
   
 Q.   Leon, confidence is such a big deal.   Did you get some of your confidence back against Hawaii?   
LEON McFADDEN:   I know Coach writes in the safeties test every week that we get, confidence is contagious.   This week I think that really affected us.   The win gave us a great confidence boost.   For us to be successful on the field and be relaxed and paying attention to what we have to do, we have to have that confidence.  
   
 Q.   Can you guys sort of talk to what you're going to be facing with Colorado State?   What kind of problems they might present and what you've got to do?   
LEON McFADDEN:   Well, you know, like I said, it's early.   We watched film yesterday, and as far as the receiving corps, they have a guy that's been there the last three years or so, Lou Greenwood.   He's a great receiver and a great athlete.   We are looking forward to playing against him in the secondary as well as another guy named Dominique and Marquise.   
Marquise Law is a bigger guy.   He's very athletic.   On film, he's athletic, so I mean, they have a running back coming back, a returning running back that also last year gave us some trouble.   Looking forward to playing against him.  
   
 Q.   Coach described that running back as a guy that tore it up last year.   You're not going to let him do that again?   
LEON McFADDEN:   No, we can't let that happen.  
   
 Q.   Nick, how well would you say the line backing corps knows the three‑five defense now?   Yourself you've been playing three, four years now.   
NICK TENHAEFF:   Yeah, it's something you have to have a couple of years in because it's such a unique defense from what you ran in high school and things you have run in the past.   But I think all of the starters and everybody that gets rotation has a great understanding and knowledge of the defense.   And that goes down from the coaching to us.   
We spend a lot of time in the film rooms and the coaches do a great job preparing us each week for it.   We have complete confidence on our assignments every week going in.   We're just happy for the opportunity to play again this week.  
   
 Q.   You were talking about coach simplified things.   What was simpler?   Was it the play calling, being in certain spots at certain times?   What was simplified?   
JOSH WADE:   We called a lot of the same plays a lot during the course of the game.   I'm not sure if it was personnel‑wise or his strategy behind it.   But it was very simple.   The times that I was in the game, I kept getting the same play calls and from that point you lineup and play from there because you're getting into a rhythm and seeing it over and over again through the course of the game.   I'm sure it was like that for a lot of the other guys too.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT