ROLEX PARIS MASTERS
October 30, 2018
Kevin Anderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  John Isner spoke the other day about knowing his body so much better now later in his career.  At 6-8, you must have a similar circumstance.  What part of your body do you consider most important right now to your game considering your weapons and your playing style?  
KEVIN ANDERSON: It would be very difficult to pick out one particular part.  It's really the whole deal.  Especially with tennis, everything is so closely, you know, connected.  And in 2016, I learned that the hard way.  Starting a little bit too soon with the left knee issue, which then progressed to right shoulder, left hip, right hip.  Just, you know, you start compensating.   
So it's impossible to pick out one thing really.  I think you know, to echo what John said, I definitely have a much better understanding, you know, the more I've progressed throughout my career.   
And also being smart about my training programs.  Knowing when to practice, knowing when I need to take it a little bit easier.  I feel like the need to practice as much all the time has gone down a little bit.  I still train very hard, but the days when maybe my body is not feeling 100%, the idea of putting my body first and rest is now such a higher priority than it was when I was young in my career when I could afford to push things a little bit harder.  So that's been a big adjustment.   
And at 32 years old I feel I'm playing some of the best tennis of my career.  And as long as I can stay healthy, I feel like I'm going to continue playing better tennis.  I'm going to be more experienced.  I'm going to be able to continue working on my game.   
But of course the biggest obstacle in some point in time is the body.  So that's why every decision I make is really closely associated to, you know, what's best for my body, because at this time it's the most important tool that I have.   
 Q.  Can I ask you about Wimbledon's decision on final set tie-breaks?  Do you think that was a good decision?  
KEVIN ANDERSON: I think overall, yes.  It's an interesting sort of blend between maybe playing long sets and a 6-All tie-breaker.  They reached out to me and I think they reached out to a few players.  I know they were discussing it internally.   
I said from my side I would have been in favor of a tie-breaker at 6-All.  Personally I think if it's tied up at that point in the match, it's a good time to play a tie-breaker, but I can understand why they wanted to extend it.  It brings in a little bit of that history, the uniqueness of it going a bit longer.   
So it's not -- I was reading about it in the history.  There's not tons of matches that are going deep in the fifth.  But the ones that do, that have gone there, by at least capping it at 12-All, I think it protects the players a little bit more.  I mean, you're still playing another set of tennis, but it stops you from playing four, five sets of tennis, which we've seen.   
And while it's a really great story, there's some downside to that as well.   
 Q.  Do you think the Australian and the French might be under pressure to follow suit?  
KEVIN ANDERSON: I think, yes.  I definitely think that's the way it's going.  And that's sort of short-term.  I think longer term we're talking, I don't know how many years down the road, I think we'll see some more changes.   
It's an interesting sporting world we live in where obviously consumers are changing.  I mean, people who are watching.  So I definitely think at some point in time we'll see the Australian and the French following suit.   
 Q.  So, Kevin, given your seniority on the tour, participation on the player council, are you aware if Rafa or Novak are sort of seeking input concerning the Saudi exhibition at this point?  
KEVIN ANDERSON: I don't know anything on that.  So until I know more information, I feel like a little bit out of place to, you know, to comment on that right now.   
 Q.  You're the first South African to qualify for the World Tour Finals in 23 years.  Wayne Ferreira, I think.  
KEVIN ANDERSON: In '95, I believe.   
 Q.  You must have grown up watching him.  What does it mean to you and what does it mean to get it wrapped up before this week?  
KEVIN ANDERSON: Yeah, it's great.  I remember watching as a young kid.  Obviously it was always an iconic court, the court with no tramlines, that's what I remember.  It seemed like a very special tournament.   
So watching Wayne playing there and my idols growing up and then being in that position many, many years later in my career is definitely a great feeling.  It's been a big goal of mine obviously all year to make London.  I've stated that several times.   
So to do it, have wrapped it up before Paris is always a good feeling.  I knew I was on the edge.  Looking pretty good.  But you never know what is going to happen.   
So I have said it feels good to have qualified myself by winning a tournament and taking matters in my own hand and not relying on other people's results, and that's a good feeling.   
 Q.  So after his win Fernando reflected on a chance to play Rafa again as a beautiful experience.  Got a long way to go, but you have the potential to take on Roger again and compete with him.  How would you view that?  
KEVIN ANDERSON: Any time you're playing Roger I think it's a great experience.  I mean, playing arguably the best player of all time.  I've played him a few times.  It's always a challenge.  Obviously he had a very, for me, a big match against him at Wimbledon.  So taking the court against him again I'm sure he would be very motivated.  But I would be very motivated to be up to that challenge again.   
Obviously I've got many, many matches to get there before playing Roger so it would be just more me talking in general what it's like to take the court against Roger.  It's always a very special moment.  He's just an icon of the game.  So it's one of those interesting balances between a really great challenge to yourself and having to put aside a little bit, you know, just sort of how iconic he's been in the game of tennis.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT