LAVER CUP
September 22, 2018
Kevin Anderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. ANDERSON/N. Djokovic   
7-6, 5-7, 10-6   
Team Europe - 7   
Team World - 3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Novak just said that that's some of the best tennis he's ever faced from you and compared it to the Wimbledon match a few years ago.  What about you?  What do you think?  
KEVIN ANDERSON: Yeah, definitely.  I mean, I tried to pick up where I left off in the Wimbledon match this year in the third set where I felt I played much better tennis.   
Right from the beginning I was feeling really good.  I thought I was serving good.  I was staying in points a lot, doing all the things I needed to do against him.   
I thought all in all it was a really high quality match.  I really had to play good tennis to beat him.  I knew that was the case.  He's such a good tennis player and such a good competitor that he's not going to give it to you.   
I thought I played really good tennis.  Everything I have been trying to work on is great, another step in the right direction for me.  Definitely feels good to get through that match today.   
 Q.  How much of a personal challenge was it to beat Djokovic today?  How much of a personal challenge to help Team World to add a couple points today?  
KEVIN ANDERSON: Yeah, you always have your work cut out playing Novak.  I knew that going into the match.  You try to stick to your game plan, the basics as much as possible, and I did a fantastic job with that throughout the match today.   
Obviously our team was in a tough position, so getting through that, I think, was really valuable for the team.   
But, you know, I sort of set that at the side.  You know, that's just sort of what happens on the outside.  You have to focus on what's happening in the match itself, and I knew if I could focus on that as much as possible, it would give myself the best chance of winning, and obviously that would keep us alive and in a much better position in this whole competition.   
 Q.  How was it to have John McEnroe as a coach?  
KEVIN ANDERSON: Yeah, it was great.  You know, having him out there, I think he did a great job of just letting me play.  Obviously he knows the amount of work and effort I have put in.  He's not privy to that, so I think he did a very good job of letting me play my tennis.   
You know, he gave me some pointers, too.  You know, he said obviously it's always tough going up against somebody like Novak, but I think before the match you know, also said this is a great opportunity for me.  I mean, playing here in Chicago against somebody like Novak, obviously just trust myself.  You know, that's what I'm trying to do.  I was able to do a very good job with that throughout today's match.   
 Q.  So you came in with a lot of pressure, given the team score.  How did the team, in addition to John, help you prepare today just to go out there and lay it all out?  
KEVIN ANDERSON: Yeah, I didn't really feel that much pressure from a team position.  You know, that's not going to help you perform or have any positive effect out there.  I knew I just had to try to do my best, try and get us a win.   
Obviously it's always a tough task up against somebody like Novak.  But I think John had a really tough match, having match point, and, you know, he really could have got that match done, and then, you know, obviously Nick losing to Roger, I mean, even before my match I felt like everybody was really encouraging me and weren't letting their own disappointments affect the general mindset.   
Obviously the amount of support I had out there not just from my team but the whole crowd was probably the best support I've ever had as a professional tennis player, so it was really nice to see.   
 Q.  You are a pretty subdued guy.  There are a lot of guys on your team who are a little more outgoing.  You have Jack Sock falling on the ground pretending he's having heart attacks.  Bows and arrows.  How is that camaraderie with you mixing in with those guys?  Is that going to change you a little bit?  Are you going to go about your business the same, or are you going to become a bit more outgoing?  
KEVIN ANDERSON: Yeah, I mean, I don't see myself shooting bows and stuff right now (smiling).  It's really fun.  We are having a great time on the bench.  Obviously Jack and Nick are really, you know, passionate and very emotive.  They're having a really good time.  I think some of the culture was set a bit last year in Prague.   
I know my role in this is obviously I'm supporting as much as I can in sort of my way and trying to play the best tennis I can out on the court.  I think all in all everybody has been having a really good time.   
 Q.  Playing toe-to-toe tennis like you did today with Novak, it's pretty fun for a spectator and fan to watch.  How much fun is it for you as a player?  And how much pressure is it for you as a player to play tennis like this, toe to toe, and just stay in the game?  
KEVIN ANDERSON: Yeah, I really enjoyed it.  I felt I stayed in the moment well, taking the situation.  Here I am playing Djokovic with the likes of Federer, Laver, Borg, and McEnroe watching.  It's a pretty unique experience.   
More than that, just playing here in Chicago, I mean, obviously where I travel around the world, just where I'm from, I'm never really sort of the home favorite.  I feel like in a lot of tournaments I have good support, but obviously nothing compares to this where the whole crowd was really behind me in a pretty-much sold-out stadium here in United Center where there's -- I don't know what the capacity is, but thousands and thousands of people.  That was a match I will remember for a long time for many different reasons.   
 Q.  Along those lines with the crowd, as well as meeting Novak today, what are your best memories so far from this event?  
KEVIN ANDERSON: From this event?  I mean, you know, I think just being in Chicago, I think, for me has been really special.  You know, ever since I saw it was here, it was something I really looked forward to and really pleased I was able to work my way and to have a spot on this team.   
You know, I have spent so much time here obviously at the university and living here and knowing that -- obviously hasn't been an event like this in Chicago, so just being part of it, I mean, just being here in Chicago.  I mean, my whole wife's family is here.  I mean, that's always very special.   
I think also it's just a different sort of aspect playing as a team here.  You're playing for Team World, and you hear when they are calling the score that, as well.  That's been really nice.  I think doubles yesterday also was fantastic playing against Novak and Federer.   
 Q.  Speaking about Chicago, how much time do you actually spend here?  How often do you come to Chicago?  How much this week is different from previous years you spent in the city?  
KEVIN ANDERSON: Yeah, my wife and I moved down to Florida, but as I said, my wife's family is still here.  We are probably here maybe twice a year, I mean, during the holidays, during Christmas, and sometimes we are back during, you know, the year, too, maybe like two or three times.   
Obviously it's different because we have an amazing event here, and a lot of the family who haven't been able to see me playing are all here and watching.  You know, it's great to see them here in person.   
 Q.  I just want to get your opinion on something in regards to how much money players are making and the difference between top 10 guys, challengers, and that sort of thing.  You have done the challenger circuit so you know what this is all about.  How do you think that the prize money is being distributed?  Is it being done properly from the slams, from the thousands?  Should they be putting more into the challengers?  Your thoughts?  
KEVIN ANDERSON: Yeah, I mean, just being on the council now for six years, being privy to a lot of that stuff, I think if you look at the numbers, I think it's tending in the right direction and a lot of players support that, especially the likes of Djokovic who has been on the council the last couple of years.  Obviously there with Federer, Murray, everybody supports this idea of making tennis as attractive for as many people as possible.   
There has been an increase in challengers.  When the tournaments have increased their prize money, there has been a higher percentage in the earlier rounds.  Qualifying has gone up a lot.  You can see that in slams, especially.  Especially in the qualifying matches, early-round matches, those percentages have gone up a lot.   
It's still not perfect.  We are still working on it.  Definitely the overall goal is to make it as attractive a sport for as many people as possible.  I still feel like some of the distributions and the prize money breakdowns, I mean, there is still a huge difference between, you know, the winner and even just runner-up.  Semifinals US Open, I think, was a pretty stark example of that.   
Obviously it's great for the US Open to be able to offer that, you know, the winner's check, but I think there might be some room for maybe a bit of a different distribution and still in that model.  But as I said, it's a work in progress.  I feel like the slams have been really open to that.  They have really taken our suggestions of trying to increase it more in lower side, because there was quite a few years where almost everything was just going to the later rounds.   
 Q.  Your match tonight was amazing, but also last night, Diego's match against David was pretty spectacular, and the crowd obviously was tremendously involved.  I don't know if you have had a chance to see him play live before?  I know you guys don't sit and watch each other's matches.  You have your own draw and schedule.  Have you seen him play live before, Diego, and is there anything surprising about the way he plays?  
KEVIN ANDERSON: No, I mean, I have played him several times.  I have watched him play so many times on TV.  Maybe it's a little different just sitting on the bench but not too much different.   
He's an amazing competitor.  Obviously people talk, he's not the biggest guy, but I think the advantage of that is you can see his movement, his balance.  I mean, his groundstrokes are among the best in the world.  He's one of the best returners to have ever played this game.   
I have had some really tough matches with him, but it's been, you know, nice to spend some time with him.  He's a great guy, and I think that was clear to see with the amount of support he had here, as well.   
 Q.  Following up on the issue of prize money distribution, do you feel that the fragmentation of the event are the main cause for the difficulty that tennis is finding in creating a sustainable environment for a reasonable number of professionals?  ATP can distribute as it wishes the ATP money, but then the Grand Slams, they have their own little or big tournaments.  The Laver Cup is independent.  So all these kind of pots of money, they don't get together and they are not distributing in a unique fashion.  Do you think that this is the big problem, or do you think...  
KEVIN ANDERSON: I mean, I think maybe in the past it has been.  But I really feel like the Grand Slams, they have changed that model a lot.  I have seen sort of the numbers and the breakdowns.  There has been a huge increase in qualifying in the first few rounds.   
It's really gone up a lot.  I think that's a great step forward.  I still think there is work to be done with the Grand Slams, specifically, about maybe changing some of the distributions.  And of course there is ongoing talks about general revenue splits between what the players are getting as a total share of revenue.   
On the ATP side, I think we have a bit more control in that, and again, that's been a huge focus.  So I think overall, especially in the last few years -- I mean, it's not something that happens overnight.  I think it's definitely going in the right direction, which is great to see.   
You know, we'll definitely continue to push, you know, for that, because I think the ultimate goal is taking care of -- you know, the guys who are top in the world, they are definitely driving the sport a lot, but we understand how difficult it is, and we want to sustain tennis as much as possible so that more kids can see that tennis offers a good source of income and jobs for as many players as possible.  I think that will be great for the sport.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT