U.S. OPEN
September 2, 2018
Kevin Anderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. THIEM/K. Anderson
7-5, 6-2, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How did you see that match from your side?  Obviously Dominic played well.
KEVIN ANDERSON: I definitely felt he played a great match.  He made life pretty difficult for me.  I thought he defended amazingly.
I think a lot of success I have had in the past is I have been able to work points, find the right time to come forward.  Still had a pretty good success rate coming forward today, but there were pockets where he had some unbelievable passing shots, made me hit another ball.  That made things pretty tough.
Obviously not creating any break points also made life difficult for me.  Just over time when someone is holding serve easily and the other person is creating, not always break points, but just getting to the other service game.  You know, it makes life tough.
I think overall I didn't feel like I played poorly today.  I think I did quite a few things well.  Hat off to him.  I thought he really stepped up.  He was definitely the better player today.
Q. Is there anything with the new stadium that you liked, didn't like, you think might have had an effect on the match?
KEVIN ANDERSON: No, not at all.  I think it's a great atmosphere.  A few days ago when I played Denis, it was one of the most exciting atmospheres I have ever been part of.  Today, as well.  I thought the crowd was, again, fantastic.
It's definitely pretty loud out there.  Constant sort of noise.  But as long as it's constant, for me personally, it doesn't matter too much.
But I thought they did a great job.  I think there will be some really exciting matches out there.
Q. Does it bother you at all, I know you have said in the past, not playing on Ashe?  You're one of the defending runner-ups, defending Wimbledon finalists, you were on Court 17 twice and Armstrong?
KEVIN ANDERSON: No, not really.  It is what it is.  That's the schedule.  You know, playing out on Armstrong is pretty great.  I mean, it's a pretty big stadium out there.  You know, I don't think there is too much difference, really, in terms of coverage and whatever you look at between Ashe and Armstrong.
I mean, I understand the guys out on Ashe, they are superstars of our sport.  They get a lot of people watching.  I need to win a few more tournaments to get out there.
Q. As you said, you had good runs here.  How disappointing is it to be leaving at this point?
KEVIN ANDERSON: Yeah, of course it's disappointing.  I wanted to be here right till the end and put myself in contention of winning my first major.  It wasn't meant to be.
As I said, I think it was definitely Dom's day today.  He played a great match.  Best of luck to him throughout the tournament now.
I have to leave earlier than I wanted to.  As always, I keep my head up, look objectively at all the matches I played, see where I can improve, bits and pieces, and, you know, get ready as quick as I can.  It's obviously still a lot of very big tournaments for us throughout the rest of the year.  Still a lot of tennis to be played, a lot to play for.
As tough as it is, it's really disappointing leaving here and I do my best to be as positive as possible.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT