THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 2, 2018
Kevin Anderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. ANDERSON/N. Gombos   
6-3, 6-4, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  That was a pretty good opener.  Did you feel comfortable right from the beginning?  
KEVIN ANDERSON: Yeah, I felt it took a little bit of time just getting used to conditions.  It was quite windy, gusty, I'd say.  When you've never played an opponent before, you're not quite sure what to expect.  Hits the ball pretty flat, pretty hard.  I think he's a pretty good grass court player.  Hadn't seen him playing before.   
So that part took a little bit of time to adjust.  I felt I was able to do a good job taking care of my serve games.  Sort of scrapped through a break in that first set, and then I felt I played much better in the second and third set.  It was still gusty, hard to find a great rhythm out there, but walking off a grass court match in straight sets is always a job well done.   
 Q.  In this day and age of YouTube and Internet videos, it must be fairly rare that you play somebody you just don't know how he plays?  
KEVIN ANDERSON: Yeah.  My coach had asked around and seen him hitting a few balls.  I'm sure if it was my job to do that I'd be able to get him, seeing him online or whatever.   
But I had a few ideas, knew he was a bigger guy, hit through the ball a lot.  But of course it's always different hearing that than actually playing somebody.  As I said, getting through in straight sets was actually a big positive for me.   
 Q.  Obviously went out in the French Open in slightly disappointing circumstances.  Didn't do as well at Queen's as you have in recent years.  Do you feel that your ship is now righted?  
KEVIN ANDERSON: I always felt that way.  It's always tough with tennis.  I played a great French Open, played a great match against Schwartzman, especially those first two sets and 95% of the third set and 95% of the fourth set, and just came up a little bit short.   
It's easy to get discouraged and go off track, but, you know, it was a tough loss, learned as much as I could from it.  First match on grass, it's always a little bit tricky.  Again, another close match.  I have had a few of them this year.  7-6 in the third against Mayer.  Would have loved to get a few more grass court matches.  That's how it goes.   
Coming in today really excited about playing here at Wimbledon, of course.  I feel like I'm playing good tennis.  Hopefully looking forward to a good couple weeks here.   
 Q.  Next match against Andrea Seppi.  Similar sort of player to you?  
KEVIN ANDERSON: Yeah, not really.  A bit of a repeat from last year.  Played him second round here as well.  He's definitely one of the veterans of the tour.  He's a very clean ball striker, very experienced.  I played a great match against him last year, so I'd love to bring out that same sort of form on Wednesday.   
But it's always different.  Conditions could be different.  You know, you have to be prepared for anything.  But I have played him before.  I have seen him playing, you know, many, many times, so my next match at least I'll know what to expect from my opponent.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT