U.S. OPEN
September 6, 2017
Kevin Anderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. ANDERSON/S. Querrey
7-6, 6-7, 6-3, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Obviously tight margins when you two play each other.  What can you say about this?
SAM QUERREY: He's tough to play against.  He's so overly aggressive.
You know, a lot of his balls were landing in.  It's just tough.  Like you said, just a couple points here and there.  I thought he played really well in the big points.
Q. Do you think after that crazy second-set tiebreak, when you kind of got through that, that that might flip it and get you going?  What enabled him to get it back together?
SAM QUERREY: I mean, yes and no.  He has such a big serve.  It's, like, hard to get a lot of momentum.  Even though I won that set, he can come out and just had three great service games, boom, boom, boom, and it kind of takes away your momentum a little bit.
I had a little momentum, but I didn't feel like I was, like, All right, now I'm going to get some looks, because he's got such a big game.
Q. First set, talk about that.
SAM QUERREY: I was up a mini break.  It was 5-2?
Q. Yes.
SAM QUERREY: I can't really recall.  I probably missed some -- I needed a few more first serves, because against him, when you put the second serve in, he takes a big cut and you just kind of hope he misses it.
You know, when it goes in, you're on your back feet just right away and it's tough.
Q. I saw you trying everything you could do out there.  You were going with some chipped forehands, sliced forehands, returns of serve.  Instinct by you or the coach talk to you about chipping back some to keep that ball in play and keep some pressure on him?
SAM QUERREY: A little of both.  I do that in other matches, too.  You know, a guy like that, him, Isner and Karlovic, guys like that, sometimes you just try to get the return in and then try to live for the next ball and hopefully you can get a swing on the next one.
He's not a guy that you can get a good, clean hit on the return.  I was just, you know, trying to make it back in.  He did a good job of handling those.
Q. There was so much talk about the milestone of an American getting to the semis and how you were sort of the great American hope.  Did that weigh on you at all or did you put that aside?
SAM QUERREY: No, I never thought about it.  Just going out there, doing the best I could.
Q. It's sort of part of the whole US Open thing, but is it a little surreal out there at almost 2:00 a.m., giant stadium, not a lot of people?  What's that experience like?
SAM QUERREY: It's fun.  I mean, it's so late, so, I mean, I know it's tough for people to stay, but the people that stayed, they were in it, they were loud, they were fun to play in front of.  You know, can't expect a stadium to be full at 2:00 a.m. on a Tuesday.
Q. But even for you as a player, that's not your normal rhythm to be playing a match at 2:00 a.m.?
SAM QUERREY: Right, but there is a handful of times during the year where you do play a match that late where the night session goes late or you have a rain delay.  I think all tennis players are used to it from here and there, and when you're doing a physical sport, you don't get tired.  2:00 a.m. feels the same as 9:00 p.m.  You can't really tell the difference when you're out there.
Q. Disappointment?  Or what's your emotional reaction leaving this tournament now.
SAM QUERREY: Pretty happy.  At the beginning of the week, if you said I would have made quarters, I probably would have signed up for that.  I know that bottom half of the draw was open, but you can't say 63 guys blew an opportunity.  Only one guy can go through, and Kevin's pretty tough.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT