ATP CUP
January 6, 2020
Kevin Anderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. ANDERSON/C. Garin   
6-0, 6-3   
South Africa - 1   
Chile - 0   
THE MODERATOR: Who has the first question for Kevin?   
 Q.  It seemed like it was just kind of like old times out there, right?  
KEVIN ANDERSON: Yeah, obviously, it felt like a good match and I was really pleased that I was able to improve on a few things today and, obviously, different opponent, different circumstances. Got off to a really good start and I feel like a lot of things we have been working on, I was able to implement them today, and great that I was able to play a good match, and with Lloyd playing well as well, get our first win for our team.   
 Q.  What do you think worked well for you or you improved upon today as opposed to two days ago?  
KEVIN ANDERSON: Well it was just a very different match. I feel like just the things that I was doing well against Novak I was able to do the same things today in a different setting. I think that's a positive for me. I think a couple times just the transition work, I was able to execute a few more today, which was good. But it was more just a continuation of the things that I've been working on, being able to do it again. And, obviously, there's a lot of tennis to be played but definitely set in the right direction today.   
 Q.  And your feeling, as your first match in a while, how did you feel after that and how did you feel today?  
KEVIN ANDERSON: Yeah, a little bit physically draining after my first match. It's always, as much as you work off the court it's always a little bit different being in a match environment. But a really good day of recovery yesterday and my body felt really good being out there today.   
 Q.  What does it mean to keep your guys' hopes alive for Sydney, obviously, but kind of validate you're here, your 1-1 now and have a chance to go to the final leg?  
KEVIN ANDERSON: Yeah, that's obviously the goal. We had to get a win today, so we were able to do that. Hopefully the boys will pull out the doubles as well, definitely increase our chances. But some of it is out of our hands as well, already having, well, taking the loss against Serbia, so I'm not sure what the permutations are, but all we can do is play each match to the best of our abilities, compete our highest, it was great to get a win today, and then we'll bring back our full intensity for our match against France in a couple days time.   
 Q.  You're working with Diego now. How did that come about and what are your thoughts on it so far, your goals for that relationship?  
KEVIN ANDERSON: Yeah, it's been really positive working with Diego. He brings a lot of experience. He played himself, he's coached, he's been a coach for a long time now as well, hits a very good ball as well, so it's nice getting out there hitting with him on the practice court. He lives 20 minutes from me in Florida, so that's been really nice in the way he's able to adapt and fit in with my existing team as well, and just being in the same location is really convenient and really works out well. But we both are really excited about the year. We both have high ambitions, want to achieve a lot, we know that there's a step-by-step process, but I feel like the whole team is on the same page and looking forward to things to come.   
 Q.  What are your ambitions for 2020?  
KEVIN ANDERSON: Yeah, I mean, the first one was getting out there on the match court. I feel like that's been a really good step. Biggest ambition is to get back to top-10. My best ranking is top-5, so I would like to get back there. But the two biggest goals is I want to win a Masters series. I feel like that's something that I'm definitely a good enough tennis player to do that. I've put myself in good positions but haven't quite taken that step. And then, obviously, the grand prize in tennis, a Grand Slam. I've been in two finals. That's the ultimate goal for me. It's one that I really feel like I have a good chance of doing it. Obviously, there's a lot of work. There's guys who want it as well and it's not an easy task. But those are the goals I set for myself and those are the ones I've been trying to achieve.   
 Q.  And just a couple matches, obviously, it doesn't change your goals, but maybe encourages you along that path even more?  
KEVIN ANDERSON: Yeah, definitely, I think it's been promising. The things I'm doing, the things we're working on seeing. We have made a few changes with a few things and so far so good. We fully are aware that it's a process to get back and take each step where we want to get to, but I think we're really excited for things to come.   
 Q.  How is the new logistical planning, I guess, with the little one and all that working out already?  
KEVIN ANDERSON: Yeah, it's a bit of a learning curve, but so far so good. She's adapted pretty well to the time change, so, yeah, but we are both with her each day, obviously things will change as she gets older, but it's just amazing for me to have my wife and daughter here and supporting me. I know it's a long trip and it is tough traveling with such a small kid, but my wife's done an amazing job with that and it's really nice finding that balance between training and matches on the court and the time we get to spend as a family away from the courts.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT