ROLAND GARROS
June 5, 2017
Kevin Anderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. CILIC/K. Anderson   
6-3, 3-0 [Ret.]   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Obviously very frustrated.  Can you sort of explain what happened and when it happened?  
KEVIN ANDERSON: Yeah, of course.  It's very difficult to deal with.  You know, I've had a pretty long clay court season being in Europe for six week.  We knew that going into it.   
But obviously with my prior injuries, and I was feeling the biggest thing I need right now is matches.  That's what we set out to do.   
For the most part, I thought my body held up very well.  I played three pretty long matches in Geneva coming into here.   
It almost started in my first round match.  I noticed it very, very lightly.  Wasn't really that concerned about it.  And just progressively worsened, you know, sort of each match, each day in between the matches.  And was doing progressively less and less on my off days.  Whereas, yesterday I was on the court for about ten minutes or so.  And tried to give it my best go at it.  You know, saw the doctors.  Did a lot of treatment with my physio.   
And, you know, tried the best we could today.  And, you know, just wasn't -- it just wasn't happening.  The serve was not firing properly.  I wasn't able to use my legs properly.  As the match went on, movement became increasingly difficult.   
It's tough.  I really, really find it -- I mean, it hurts just to retire.  I would like to just finish the match.  But, you know, with the grass just around the around the corner, I have to look after my body.  And I've been through quite a bit.  So hopefully right now I'll be able to recover rapidly.   
 Q.  And what exactly is it?  
KEVIN ANDERSON: It's just my left hamstring.  Yeah.   
 Q.  You had only 48 minutes out there today so you probably didn't get a good look at Marin, and obviously you were handicapped with your injury.  What do you think about his chances?  He hasn't dropped a set yet.  Do you think he's got the game to sort of people start talking about him as a possible title or finalist?  
KEVIN ANDERSON: Yeah.  I think he's a very, very tough player.  He's proven himself before winning US Open just a couple years ago.  So very good this tournament so far.  Obviously was a little bit tough to assess too deeply today.   
But, you know, I kind of -- what happened out there is what I expect.  I've played him a few times.  He's got a very good serve, moves well, is very consistent from the back and is a big guy.   
So, I mean, without a doubt he has, you know, a chance.  I mean, he's one of those people who has done it before, which I think counts a lot.   
But, I mean, obviously he's going to have his work cut out playing Stan next who's done very, very the last few years.  And that's not even getting into, you know, the top four guys, sort of, or the big four guys who have obviously dominated.  Obviously, Roger is not here, but the other three guys are and they're still going strong.   
 Q.  So how do you sort of feel about your form, what you did here in general over these last few weeks?  
KEVIN ANDERSON: I'm really, really encouraged by the way I'm playing.  I feel like there's been a huge improvement in the way I've been able to compete on the match court and the way I've performed.   
I feel like some of my matches have created a lot of chances.  I haven't necessarily taken them as soon and as effectively as I would have liked to, but I think that's just a positive sign.  I think, you know, that's bound to happen.   
So, you know, it's a little hiccup in the road right now.  As I said, hopefully I can get back at it as soon as I can.  But I think just, you know, a ton of positives to take and a lot of good matches I've played.  So definitely need to keep building on that.   
 Q.  What would be your schedule now and do you think it's going to need sort of a period of rest?  
KEVIN ANDERSON: Yeah, definitely some rest right now.  I mean, qualifying of Queen's right now.  So unless the cuts drop in either Halle or Queen's, you know, the tournaments start in 12 days' time, which is a very quick turnaround.   
You know, I'm actually just in the process now of speaking with doctors, getting some scan results back just to get an assessment of what is going on.  I mean, it's going to be a quick turnaround.  So, you know, fingers crossed I'll be ready.   
Again, it might be a tough decision.  Don't want to jeopardize more weeks.  I really hope I'm ready for that week.  I mean, Queen's is one of my favorite events of the year.   
So right now, I can't really think too far ahead.  You know, I certainly hope to be ready as soon as I can.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT