ROGERS CUP MEN
August 8, 2014
Kevin Anderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 G. DIMITROV/K. Anderson
  5‑7, 7‑5, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Can you just sum up your emotions and feelings after such a tough loss like that.   
KEVIN ANDERSON:   It was pretty tough.   I mean, still probably processing it all, but probably, you know, as disappointing and frustrating as a match can possibly get.   
I worked really hard.   And obviously you never want to lose a match after having, you know, a couple of match points and also, you know, fairly easier match, you know, balls that were on my racquet.  
Yeah, I mean, just probably one of the tougher losses on my serve in my career so far.  
   
 Q.   Do you know what happened in that last game when you had the match points?  
KEVIN ANDERSON:   Yeah, I mean, went for the first one and just missed it.   I guess just took my eye off a little bit on the second one.   End up hitting the net.   
I guess from there maybe got a little bit tight and, you know, missed a couple of my serves as well.  
But I got it back, and, you know, fought.   5‑4, you know, hit an ace.   It was called a net.   I mean, that's pretty unlucky.   That would have given me another two match points.  
I mean, the one backhand up the line couldn't have been any closer.   You know, it was definitely some really‑‑ there's going to be some tough memories from that match.  
   
 Q.   The level you played at, do you take positives going into Cincinnati and the US Open?  
KEVIN ANDERSON:   Yeah, I mean, I have to.   That's obviously also going to be tough to do.   I mean, you know, it's a tough sport.   Stuff like that happens.   
You can choose to really get down or, you know, take the tougher road and try to look at the improvements and try and make adjustments.   Just use it to, you know, try to make me a better player.  
   
 Q.   How difficult is it to refocus mentally after you had those two match points?   What do you say to yourself?   Because you were able to get back and give yourself some chances in that tiebreak.   
KEVIN ANDERSON:   Yeah, just not think about it a whole lot.   Just try and play it as he though it didn't happen.   I'm still at 5‑All, and, you know, just try and stay in the moment.   
I thought I did that pretty well.   Almost just a little bit unlucky in the tiebreaker.   I felt like I played a pretty good breaker and through really key points that went against me in a pretty unlucky manner.  
I guess obviously my biggest chance was at 5‑4.   I'm not too upset with the tiebreaker I played,     especially considering the circumstances.   Obviously it's close, but obviously, I mean, you know, my opportunity which I worked really hard for was the two at 5‑4.  
   
 Q.   Will this be a very difficult loss to forget?   I mean, you have a tournament next week.   
KEVIN ANDERSON:   Yeah, of course it will be.   I mean, at this stage in a quarterfinals to go through to semis, it will be really tough.  
I'm sure it will be pretty tough to sleep tonight.   You know, I just have to try and put it down and, you know, bounce back.   I feel like, you know, I have done that throughout my career, and that's when it might be a bit tougher.   I'm definitely not going to let it keep me down.  
   
 Q.   Can you remember a similar situation in how you bounced back from it?  
KEVIN ANDERSON:   I mean, not like this.   I mean, you know, at this stage I think that's probably maybe ‑‑I remember serving for the match in the first round of the Australian Open, my first Grand Slam, and that was pretty tough.   I didn't get to match point, but that one hurt a lot.   
There's couple I remember.   My second was two sets to love up and let that one slip away.   So, I mean, I have obviously come a long way since that level.  
Hopefully, you know, put myself in this position again and be a bit of a stronger player for the next time.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT