ROLAND GARROS
June 2, 2014
Kevin Anderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. FERRER/K. Anderson
      6‑3, 6‑3, 5‑7, 6‑1

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please. 

Q.   It was a lot closer than when you played him last year.   You feel you've improved?   You're getting closer to beating him?
    KEVIN ANDERSON:   It was definitely closer than last year.   I mean, I guess you could sort of gauge it that way. 
    Obviously a different match, and it's disappointing not being able to get through this hurdle and make my first quarters of a slam.
    But I thought there was a lot of positives from today's match.   At the same time, it was difficult.   It's not easy playing him here; he doesn't let up at all. 
    I was able to really stay with him in the third, and felt at the end I was playing some really good tennis. 
    I was coming into the fourth set I think fatigued a little bit, and that made it all a bit tougher out there.
    But, you know, the way my body reacted to my first really sort of hard match for actually a while, the knee felt great.   That's something to really be excited about.

Q.   Did you feel like you were back in it after the third set, or did you know that you probably couldn't push him? 
    KEVIN ANDERSON:   No, not at all.   I was feeling really good after the third set.   My emotions were really high.   Starting off the fourth set you have to reset a little bit. 
    He came out with the same level of intensity, and I think I maybe dipped just a little bit going down that early break.   He played a great game to break me again. 
    By that stage, it was going to be tough, a tough way back. 

Q.   He is like a brick wall, isn't he?   How do you get the balance right between going for enough and not too much?
    KEVIN ANDERSON:   It's tricky, but I thought I did it well in the third.   Even in the first two sets, the few times I've played him I always feel like I'm in the match.   He just takes away any chances you have. 
    6‑3, sitting at the changeover, but I feel like I'm right in it.   Same happened when I played him in Acapulco.   First set down 6‑2, but looking back at it, it doesn't seem to correlate with how the points are going. 
    It's just the nature of how I'm playing.   At least that's what it feels like.   I was able to play well in the third.   Obviously there is a lot to take from that. 
    To beat him, you really have to play that level of tennis regardless of how long it takes.

Q.   You mentioned trying to get to your first major quarterfinal.   How much closer do you think you've gotten to achieving something like that?
    KEVIN ANDERSON:   It's the first time I've won a set in the fourth round, so that's a little closer.
    But, I mean, compared to my match last year I definitely felt it was a much tougher match today.   I mean, there was chalk and cheese actually. 
    And being in that position now, the four fourth round matches I've had have been two against Berdych and two against Ferrer.   Both against Ferrer on clay. 
    Obviously against Berdych, that has been a tough matchup for me.   I just got to keep getting at it.   The more I put myself in this opportunity, I think the better chance I've got of making through.
    I think if I can keep doing that and keep improving, I definitely think it will happen. 

Q.   You've also said that you're happy playing on pretty much any surface.   How much are you looking forward to getting on the grass now? 
    KEVIN ANDERSON:   Yeah, grass is a different surface.   It's a very short season.   I'm only playing two tournaments.   There are some adjustments, and it's something that I try to find a balance with in the past. 
    I wouldn't say it's my favorite surface, but it's one that I look forward to.   It's a different time of the year and it's fun playing on the grass as well.   It's something very different.
    It was my coach's favorite surface, so hopefully he'll be able to give me some tips this year. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT