APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 11, 2013
Kevin Anderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. ANDERSON/J. Benneteau
  3‑6, 6‑4, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   The opponent or the heat?   Both, I suppose. 
KEVIN ANDERSON:   It was.   The first set was pretty tough.   I thought the conditions were really quick.   Sort of wasn't settled at all I felt, and he's pretty good at fast surfaces coming forward.
Really important in the second set just to try to take care of my serve games.   Maybe two or three serve games in I started definitely setting down more and had a few looks at his serve.   Fortunately got a break and then kept it going to the third.
Just it got quite tricky at 4‑3 when I was broken back.   Sort of started to get quite tired.   Last few games were definitely a battle out there.

Q.   I know it's an individual sport, but you're the first South African to get into the finals. 
KEVIN ANDERSON:   Yeah, it's been great.   The tournament has been going on for a while.   There has been some very good South Africans in the past.   Obviously most notably be Wayne Ferreira. 
So, yeah, hopefully I'll be able to take it one step further tomorrow.

Q.   When the match goes that long, how much are you reacting and how much do you actually think about what you're doing? 
KEVIN ANDERSON:   Yeah, once I got broken at 4‑3 I sort of went into ‑‑ on that next service game just sort of went into automatic mode.   I knew had to get out of it quite quickly because things could've spiraled out.   As things were it got pretty close.   Saved a few match points at 6‑5, or just one, I think.
Yeah, I needed to pick it up a bit.   I thought I served better in the tiebreaker and the also the 5‑4 game.
So it's always important when stuff like that happens to just try and maintain focus and keep doing, you know, what you've been doing to get there.

Q.   What did you do to turn it around in the first set?   Just working on your own game or did he make changes? 
KEVIN ANDERSON:   I think just putting more balls in the court.   I think I made quite a few mistakes in the first set.   Just gave myself more looks on his service games, more comfortable from the baseline. 
I mean, that's just a big thing.   It's a simple thing.   I think it was just less unforced errors.   I think that allows me to be a bit more aggressive. 
So I think those two areas were definitely quite a bit better.

Q.   Thoughts on the other guys you could be playing.   Tomic has a lot of support here. 
KEVIN ANDERSON:   Yeah, he seems to be playing quite well.   Got a pretty close first set there.   I still think it's quite close.   I don't think Seppi is going to go away just yet.
Either guy is going to be really tough.   Tomic here at home, I think he will be gunning ‑ I think it's for his first title.   Seppi has been there a few times.
Be different opponents, but it's going to be a tough match either way. 

Q.   How do you recover now?   Ice bath?
KEVIN ANDERSON:   Yeah, I just got done.   You know, fortunately the guys the in locker room were kind enough to help me get an ice bath.   I had a bit of a massage.   I'll just eat some food as well.   I'll probably go back to the hotel and just have a stretch and just try to get an early night.

Q.   Will you be watching a bit more tennis now?
KEVIN ANDERSON:   No.   I think I'll go back.   I think my coach has watched probably the whole first set.   I've seen both guys playing enough to sort of know what to expect tomorrow.

Q.   Just your thoughts on the time violations and the rules becoming a little more strict that way. 
KEVIN ANDERSON:   I'm a huge fan of the rule.   I mean, it's tough.   You know, I feel like I'm playing quicker and I'm still adjusting to it, but I think the rules just for tennis in general, I think it's a very good rule. 
And just being on the council, I was just part of the talks when we decided to put that through last year.   I know it's tough.   I think we have a players' meeting coming up in Australia tomorrow, and I think a few players will talk out about it. 
But I think it's good to keep it in.

Q.   Did you take a hand vote before it was passed?   Some of the guys were saying there wasn't really a vote taken; some guys say there was. 
KEVIN ANDERSON:   No, I mean, I can tell you firsthand that Gayle Bradshaw put through two things that we voted on.   One was the net cord rule, which as you know is now just being tried out at the challenger level for three months. 
The other one was a time violation.   We actually went through a few options.   We talked about having a sort of clock on the court, and we thought that wasn't the best option.   We spoke about the problem just before about umpires being really reluctant to give away a point straightaway.   This was another option. 
I can't remember what the vote was, but there's ten of us, so there was a deciding vote to put that through.

Q.   Did you discuss it with all the players before the council took a vote?   They must have known about it to some degree. 
KEVIN ANDERSON:   Yeah, I mean, we were presented that at I think it was US Open.   I'm not sure if the rule went in straightaway.   I mean, it's tough.   The players do elect us in there.   We try our best to talk about as many as we can.   I think there might have been ones, you know, that just we voted for on behalf, so it's the consistency that we represent.

Q.   So Andy Murray said last week he thinks he's in favor of the rule as long's it's extended to 30 seconds rather than 25.   He doesn't think 25 is enough, especially when you go deep in matches. 
KEVIN ANDERSON:   Yeah, I was speaking to a few guys yesterday, and they also‑‑ I think there's a few people who are talking about maybe changing the rule a little bit, so it's going to be interesting to see. 
I haven't spoken to enough people to know exactly what guys are talking about.   That's the first I've heard from Andy Murray's side.   I don't know. 
Just from my personal side, I would be happy to keep at 25 seconds.   I think that's where it's leaning towards, so we'll just have to see what people are saying.   I think we'll probably get a lot of that accomplished next week in Melbourne.

Q.   What do you expect next week in a slam? 
KEVIN ANDERSON:   I don't know if Australia‑‑ the slams, they do their own thing.   I'm not sure if they've adopted the rule.   Yeah, I'm not quite sure what the time violations are going to be like next week, if it's going to be the new one that the ATP are doing or how it's always been.
So I'm not quite sure what it's going to be like yet. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT