CONNECTICUT OPEN PRESENTED BY UNITED TECHNOLOGIES
August 21, 2014
Alison Riske
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. RYBARIKOVA/A. Riske
  7‑5, 0‑6, 6‑4 
   
 Q.   Did you think you had it there after that strong second set, then playing well in the third?   
ALISON RISKE:   Yeah, I definitely thought like I gave myself the chance to take the match, but I didn't capitalize on some important games.   That's just how it was.   
   
 Q.   What happened in the third set at the end, the 4‑4 game?   
ALISON RISKE:   I actually don't remember at 4‑4.   I know there was a critical game where I double‑faulted four times in the game.   Obviously at this level, that can't happen.   That was a huge problem.   
Yeah, so...   I gave it all I had today, so that's all I could do.   
   
 Q.   How do you feel going into the US Open, making the quarters here?   
ALISON RISKE:   Obviously it's great to get a couple wins.   I would have loved to have won today.   It gives me a few days to prepare for my first round in New York.   So that's positive, too.   
   
 Q.   What adjustment did you make after the first set?   
ALISON RISKE:   I felt like I was right in there.   I was just going for a little too much instead of staying with her a little bit more.   
I just tried to keep the rally going a little bit.   I knew that I wasn't really going to be hurt as long as I kept it deep.   But, yeah, that wasn't enough clearly (laughter).   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the one strange point in the first set where she went behind her back.   Must have caught you off guard.   
ALISON RISKE:   I actually thought my ball was out, too.   I know she thought it was out.   That's why she didn't even go for it.   That was kind of last‑minute.   
Yeah, I was actually pretty happy because the ball was in, so I kept playing.   But, yeah, that was a good shot.   
   
 Q.   What is your preparation for New York?   Will you look at the draw at all?   How do you approach that?   
ALISON RISKE:   Yeah, I'll probably look at the draw, have an idea of what's going on.   I won't look too far in advance, obviously.   But, yeah, just have a good few practice days in New York and get ready to play again.   
   
 Q.   Do you have more confidence knowing you did so well last year there?  
ALISON RISKE:   Obviously, you know, winning matches at any tournament gives you confidence for the next year.   You feel comfortable there.   You have some history.   
Yeah, obviously I look to continue that.   But most importantly, just make sure I'm playing my game.   
   
 Q.   Did you feel the crowd behind you in that match?  
ALISON RISKE:   Absolutely.   They were wonderful.   They've been wonderful all week.   I mean, obviously it's a big stadium, so it's hard to pack that thing on a daily basis.   They had a decent turnout.   
Yeah, it was great to have them behind me.   I appreciate all their support.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT