U.S. OPEN
September 2, 2013
Alison Riske
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. HANTUCHOVA/A. Riske
      6‑3, 5‑7, 6‑2 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How did you manage the three‑and‑a‑half hour rain delay?  
    ALISON RISKE:   I basically just ate and slept for three hours (laughter).   
   
 Q.   What did you eat?  
    ALISON RISKE:   I had probably one of everything that they have in the cafeteria (smiling).   
   
 Q.   Was it mentally difficult knowing that you had that momentum going into the second set, to then have to stop for so long?  
    ALISON RISKE:   Not really.   I mean, I've had so many rain delays throughout my career.   I play in England a lot, which pretty much happens every day.   And I was thanking God that it actually rained because I really needed a break to just kind of, uhm, regroup.   
    I kind of treated it like my second time on Ashe because the first time was really overwhelming.   
   
 Q.   What was overwhelming about being on Ashe today to start the match?  
    ALISON RISKE:   Uhm, yeah, it was really weird because I really wasn't nervous, but my body acted nervous.   I was really tight.   
    I just think, you know, I played really well going into today, and I expected that.   It didn't start out that way.   Obviously she played really well, too.   
    Yeah, it was a learning experience.   
   
 Q.   When you came out after the rain delay, it seemed like you were trying to force the issue more, get inside the baseline to receive serve.   Did you change your strategy at all?  
    ALISON RISKE:   Yeah, a little bit, because if she was going to serve that well on me, I was going to have to try something, because I sure as heck wasn't going to get anywhere with her serving like that.   
    So, uhm, I tried to do something a little bit different.   Can't say it was that successful, but I gave it a different look, and that was all I could do.   
   
 Q.   What happened in the third set for you?   Seemed like you struggled a little bit.   Was it in your head or something with your game?  
    ALISON RISKE:   Yeah, I think I totally lost all focus and missed plenty of balls that I should make with my eyes closed.   It was really a mistake on me mentally‑wise for doing that.   
   
 Q.   What do you put it down to?   
    ALISON RISKE:   Well, I've never been in a moment like this before.   She is a seasoned player.   She played ball today.   So, you know, I did all that I could for this moment, and that's all I could do.   
   
 Q.   Who did you talk to during the delay?  
    ALISON RISKE:   I talked to my coach Yves before I went back out.   
   
 Q.   Given your results at Wimbledon and here, your ranking is going to improve.   Probably going to be a key that unlocks the ability for you to get into tournaments.   Purses will be larger.   Looking ahead, what is the impact of this summer on your potential?  
    ALISON RISKE:   Yeah, I think it was a great summer for me.   I had a great tournament, you know, even though I did lose today.   It was a really great tournament for me.   
    To follow up Wimbledon with something else big was I think really, really cool.   Yeah, I look forward to playing more tournaments, playing against the better players.   
    I think the experience, I think that's what's going to be great for me.   
   
 Q.   Were you surprised with the way she served so well throughout the whole match?  
    ALISON RISKE:   Yeah.   Well, I mean, obviously I know she's capable of playing big tennis.   But she served incredibly well.   I mean, to be honest, she hit the lines so many times, I was like, All right, we're just going to go right to the next point because that was just too good.   
   
 Q.   You said you lost focus in the third set.   Did the nerves come back a little bit there?   What was that because of?  
    ALISON RISKE:   Yeah, I mean, I played two extremely sloppy service games.   When someone is serving that well, you have to make sure that you are delivering on your service games, and I did not do that.   
   
 Q.   Are you going to stick around or is it back to Pittsburgh?  
    ALISON RISKE:   Yeah, I'm really not sure.   I'm not sure if I'll take a day, maybe do something in New York, or peace out.   
   
 Q.   Is there one thing through these two weeks that really sticks out for you, a memory or a moment, that you'll take with you?  
    ALISON RISKE:   Yeah, well, I loved, gosh, absolutely everything.   I think getting a match on Ashe under my belt was huge.   I won't forget when I was playing the match, during a tribute to our soldiers, I'm sitting on the bench crying.   I'm supposed to be serious right now, but I'm like crying because they're congratulating our awesome soldiers.   
    I just think America is a pretty awesome place.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT