AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 24, 2020
Alison Riske
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. RISKE/J. Goerges
1-6, 7-6, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. We know you love three-setters. In the first one you were quite pushed around by your opponent. What changed?
ALISON RISKE: Well, I think starting out the match, Julia was definitely at the highest level of her game, in my opinion. I couldn't even touch her first serve. I thought at that point after the first serve, Look, if she's able to play like that for the entire match, then that's just too good and it just wasn't meant to be.
I just tried to keep a positive attitude about it and felt like if I could get a couple things going on my end, particularly my serve, maybe get a few returns in play, that, you know, I'd probably have some looks. That's kind of exactly what happened.
Yeah, I'm just really proud that I was able to work through it mentally and, you know, get the win today (smiling).
Q. Staying positive, given you were a set down, how difficult was that?
ALISON RISKE: Yeah, I think now it's becoming more and more routine. I just feel like it's just another day kind of thing. You're going to play girls that play unbelievable. You're going to play girls that don't play great. You're going to not play great yourself. You're going to play amazing.
It's just going to be a day-to-day challenge, and I think that's part of the game.
It definitely wasn't easy, but I did feel if I could keep myself in check that things were possibly going to swing my way (smiling).
Q. Obviously Ash Barty is your next opponent. How do you prepare for that?
ALISON RISKE: Yeah, definitely like every other match. I have played her a couple times previously, you know, obviously at Wimbledon. But it's going to be a different experience. I'm playing on her home turf. I expect the fans against me, as they should be.
And it's going to be a battle. So I'm looking forward to it. I've got some doubles tomorrow. We'll suit up the next day for Barty.
Q. What do you remember about that result at Wimbledon?
ALISON RISKE: Yeah, I think obviously it was a great memory for me. It was my first career quarterfinal after winning that.
It was a really special match for me. I played my game, I looked to impose myself on her, and it was good enough that day.
Q. Something a little bit out of tennis, as a light-skinned girl like you, how do you manage a lot of sun? How do you do everything? Because sometimes I felt myself burned just watching a match for half an hour. You're out there for three hours maybe.
ALISON RISKE: Yeah.
Q. A lot of something particular or just normal 50% protection?
ALISON RISKE: Yeah, just some Neutrogena zinc sunscreen gets me through the match. Yeah, that's pretty much it.
Q. I mean, being a little bit slippery on your arms, doesn't it disturb or are you used to it?
ALISON RISKE: Yeah, I'm used to it at this point.
Q. Ash Barty, as you said, the crowd is going to be behind her. Have you been in that situation before and what do you anticipate?
ALISON RISKE: Yeah, I have definitely been in that situation previously. At this point in my career I feel like I have kind of experienced everything.
But, yeah, look, I'm going to have to ignore the crowd and try to be in my own head, so I think that will be the focus. I'm excited for it, honestly. You know, it's a rare experience that, you know, at a Grand Slam you play someone necessarily from, you know, the home country.
So I'm definitely looking forward to it.
Q. Did you ever play in Rod Laver Arena? I take it for granted that No. 1 in the world from Australia will play there.
ALISON RISKE: I believe I played Kerber previously, yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT