HENGQIN LIFE WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
October 21, 2019
Alison Riske
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. Welcome to Zhuhai. What has it been like for you the last few weeks just because I think when we spoke in Wuhan this tournament wasn't really on the horizon, didn't think that was on your mind. So what's it been like to kind of make the adjustments to your schedule and your mindset to kind of keep your season going one more week?
ALISON RISKE: Yeah, well I definitely, after Wuhan I was scheduled to play Tianjin, but it did look promising at that point that I was going to get into Zhuhai and I was pretty mentally exhausted.
So it was a good decision to go home, I was home for about a week, and then it was confirmed. So, yeah, we came over here. But honestly, I've been prepared, just because it was looking promising that I was going to be competing here, so I had every intention of staying in that mindset. So I'm just super excited to have qualified, it's an honor, super proud of my year and to finish it here is really special.
Q. Given all that, just a little bit of a week break at home, which isn't a lot, but sometimes it's a lot, kind of what's your mindset and mentality going into this event and how prepared do you feel for it?
ALISON RISKE: Yeah, like I said, I was kind of always had the intention of playing here once I finished in Wuhan. So I definitely feel like I'm prepared, I've had a good training block at home and I also have had some good practices here playing against all the best girls in the world.
So, yeah, I'm ready to go and can't remember the first part of your question.
Q. You got it.
ALISON RISKE: Did I get it? Okay.
(Laughter.)
Q. Just what is your experience with the round robin format and do you think that that changes anything in terms of your mindset or preparation here?
ALISON RISKE: Gosh, last time I did round robin, I don't even know, I was probably doing like a team event in like 12-and-unders or something. But, yeah, I mean it's just another week for me to try to do what I'm trying to do on the tennis court. Obviously this is something that we all want to win and something that we all intend to win, but at the end of the day it is a bonus event and I think that if I can just go out there and do what I've been doing for the majority of the year, I will be satisfied and I'll be happy with my performance.
So I think it's more about just trying to stay on the path that I'm going on and, no matter what the format is or what have you, just trying to do the best that I can.
Q. You had a great season this year and you always had a good result in China, like you made it into six finals in China, I guess. It's a lot. Any secret why you have good performance in China? And you have tried local food, hot pot, and also joined a local people's dance in Zhengzhou. Any experience you want to share with us? Is there anything you want to try more in China?
ALISON RISKE: Yeah, I always enjoy being in China. It's no secret that I play well here. Yeah, I've had some awesome results here, awesome experiences.
Honestly, I'm waiting on Saisai to take me on my next adventure. She's really my tour guide and I've let her know that. So I'm just waiting for her to come up with something for me. I'm not too adventurous in what I eat, but I can count on her to pick something good. So I don't have anything in particular that I want to do, but I will do whatever Saisai picks out for me.
Q. Talk about your friendship with Saisai. When did that start?
ALISON RISKE: I've obviously known Saisai for years, just because we have both been on tour for quite a bit. But Saisai is so much fun and I think she has such a great personality. And I think what's great about Saisai too is that even when we play against each other, no matter the result, afterwards we can still be friends. I just lost to her in Zhengzhou and I definitely hold it against her, but we're still friends (laughing.)
So, yeah, just kind of going to tournaments, she's an awesome person, awesome girl and, yeah, I've had a lot of fun with Saisai.
Q. The Olympics next year, we know there are maybe seven to eight candidates on the list of the U.S. team and you're one of the top ones. What is your plan and are you planning already for the Olympic games next year and if that's the case what would be your expectation?
ALISON RISKE: Yeah, I've tried not to really think about that too much as well. So much can happen between now and then. Obviously, I'm trying to fight every week and put myself in a position to be representing America, that would be a dream come true. Yeah, but a lot has to happen between now and then. So, obviously, if I did qualify we're out there to medal, but we'll see what happens.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT