WUHAN OPEN
September 27, 2019
Alison Riske
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. RISKE/P. Kvitova   
7-5, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  This is your sixth final in China. Do you have an explanation for this?  
ALISON RISKE: Yeah, I'm not sure. I've enjoyed playing in China from the first time I came over here. I'm just really comfortable here. I enjoy all the tournaments. I feel like the courts really suit me, just the environments of each tournament.   
Yeah, I'm just glad, hey, that I have a place that I like. I'll take anything.   
 Q.  Tight match today. Small margins in terms of the scoreline. What was the difference today for you, especially down in the second set?  
ALISON RISKE: Yeah, I had one bad service game in the second set. Same thing happened in the first set when I was able to crawl back, get the break immediately back.   
I felt like if I kept putting myself in the position to break and put pressure on her, especially if I had any look on second serves, to kind of take advantage.   
I had a feeling I was going to get the break back. I just didn't know when. It just so happened that it was the final game of the match.   
Yeah, it was a battle. But I really enjoyed every bit of it. It was a lot of fun for me.   
 Q.  We talk a lot about mentality. From a purely technical or strategic tennis ball thing, what do you think has been the difference for you this week?  
ALISON RISKE: I think I'm just doing what I do well well. That's just being there in every point. I think returning well. I think this week in particular I've been serving well. It's a tough combination when I'm doing those things.   
Yeah, just really fun to see things kind of unfold and to have some success with the things that I've been practicing. I think that's the most exciting part for me.   
 Q.  You get to play Sabalenka in a final again in China. Close one in Shenzhen. How do you look ahead?  
ALISON RISKE: Yeah, she's playing some big tennis right now. I've obviously seen her playing her matches. Yeah, it's going to be a really tough match. I think I have everything I need to go out there tomorrow.   
Yeah, it's going to be really tough. She's doing everything really well. I'm definitely looking forward to it, though.   
 Q.  In terms of playing a player like that who has a big game, playing big, what do you need to do against someone who has the ability to take racquets out of people's hands?  
ALISON RISKE: Today was a good warmup for tomorrow because I think they had some good games, obviously righty, lefty. I think it's a similar mentality.   
I think I'm just going to have to go in there and be there on every point. She's obviously going to look to hold serve. I'll have to manage my service games. If I have any looks on her serve, take my strike. Just try to impose my game as best I can.   
If she plays well, then that's just too good. But I have to just focus on imposing my game.   
 Q.  Saturday will be the biggest final of your career. Does this feel like a career week for you or normal?  
ALISON RISKE: Yeah, to be honest, it feels normal to me. I mean, I have been in many finals before, played a lot of tough players in Grand Slams, just week-to-week.   
It doesn't feel any different. I've just been enjoying it. My husband is here. My coach is here. It's just been a lot of fun.   
 Q.  You're going to crack the top 30. At the start of the season did you get a sense this could be the best season of your career so far?  
ALISON RISKE: Yeah, I definitely had the intention of being seeded in slams. I haven't historically gotten the best first rounds in Grand Slams. It will be nice to have that on my side. Again, it doesn't matter what you're ranked out. Everyone can play. I'll still have to show up.   
Yeah, it's super exciting to me. I think it's been an amazing season. I don't think it's over. I'm really grateful to my coach, Billy Heiser, he's been with me for the last couple years. He's been very diligent, helping me a lot with my mentality, just trying to be able to let my game come through. I think we're getting somewhere. I'm very grateful for his patience.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT