ROSE BOWL GAME PRESENTED BY VIZIO: STANFORD v WISCONSIN
December 27, 2012
Jared Abbrederis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JARED ABBREDERIS:   I'm a junior, but I think my senior year academically, but I'm only a junior athletically, because I red shirted my first year.

Q.   So you've been here each year? 
JARED ABBREDERIS:   Well, the first year I was red shirted, so I didn't play.   But I went to the Champs Sports Bowl.   But playing‑wise, I've played in all three.   One more would be nice, but we have to win this one first.

Q.   Are you going to go back and practice? 
JARED ABBREDERIS:   Yeah, we have to go back and watch, we have film and meetings and things like that, and then we have to go to practice.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
JARED ABBREDERIS:   We've got a couple.   A couple we've been working on.   The last couple of games we've always had something that we call (Indiscernible) Nebraska.   So it was good.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
JARED ABBREDERIS:   It was good.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
JARED ABBREDERIS:   The last practice would be the day before.   We kind of have a tune‑up, but it's not an actual hard practice.   It's mostly just a walk‑through kind of.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
JARED ABBREDERIS:   I think we're getting up at like 8:45, so not too early. Usually for an 11 o'clock game, we get a wake‑up call at 6:00.   So it's not too bad waking up at 8:45.   So, yeah, it's so good.   I love that place.   Not this year though, like the last two years.   I think we go tomorrow, but I can't wait.   I love that.   It's the best steak ever, prime rib?

Q.   Is that the big highlight everybody talks about? 
JARED ABBREDERIS:   It's one of them, yeah.   Last year I ate three.   There were so good.   Even the corn, like they give you the corn, and the corn is good.   The creamed corn, the salads are good.   Like it's so good.   You try to not eat the whole day before, so you can eat as much as you can that night.

Q.   How was your time down in Disneyland? 
JARED ABBREDERIS:   It was good.   I mean, we went there, and I didn't stay a lot, because I've been there the last two years.   So I just wanted to get home and relax and try to get my legs back, just because I experienced everything that we had.   But I went and saw it again and just kind of left. 
But a lot of the guys that have been there for the first time had a lot of fun.   I'm not much of a ride guy anyways.   I get really dizzy on rides and stuff.   Even though some of them are easier, I'm just not much of a ride guy.   I went on the tower of terror last year, and that was enough for me.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
JARED ABBREDERIS:   Oh, yeah, that's what we're doing.

Q.   (Indiscernible) TCU, Oregon.   At Disneyland yesterday.   (Indiscernible). 
JARED ABBREDERIS:   I mean, it just kind of hurt.   Everybody was disappointed in the loss.   Going out on a loss the last game, you've got all winter to think about that.   So it's not a good feeling.   Especially how close they were.   It would have been different if it was a blow out or anything like that. 
But just being in there in the end and coming up short both times, obviously it hurt.   So everybody was just kind of down a little bit.   But each year we've come back and just got back to work.

Q.   Next year's team should have a lot of guys back.   Once the coaching gets settled in, what do you vision for this team next year?   What kind of team do you think you'll have? 
JARED ABBREDERIS:   We'll worry about that after the Rose Bowl.   But obviously we're excited about that, and we're excited about the group of guys that we've got.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
JARED ABBREDERIS:   No, I mean, I talked to him for a little bit, but that's all.   We talked, and I said we'll talk after the Rose Bowl, and the same thing.   He said do your best out there, and we can worry about next year.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
JARED ABBREDERIS:   It's a transition.   Lot of changes.   Some of them have been tough kind of get used to them.   When you grow close to a coach and they leave, sometimes that relationship that you've built, obviously that stinks that they've got to leave. 
But you understand it's a business, and you've just got to understand that, and just wish for what's best for them and for our team.   Change isn't always fun, but it can be for the good, too.   So you've got to look at it that way.

Q.   We talked to Barry right before you guys came out.   And he said Joel hadn't been cleared yesterday.   He said if he's cleared, he's going to play at some point what do you think Joel might be able to provide in this game? 
JARED ABBREDERIS:   Yeah, he throws a great deep ball.   But Curt's been doing well for us.   He's been playing great.   He obviously got us into the Big Ten Championship win, and got us back to the Rose Bowl and things like that.   So they each have their own thing that they specialize in, but they're both great quarterbacks, and they both play the game well.

Q.   You were a walk‑on; is that correct? 
JARED ABBREDERIS:   Yep, walked on and‑‑

Q.   You were not recruited by anybody? 
JARED ABBREDERIS:   I was recruited about a couple of D‑2 schools, a couple of smaller D‑1 schools to walk on.   But like D‑2 would be Winona, and all the ones around Minnesota, Winona State.   I'm from Wisconsin, but there are no D‑2 schools in Wisconsin for football.   There are a whole bunch in Minnesota.   So Minnesota State and all of those types over there. 
But then I was recruited for track.   I was going to come to Wisconsin for track, but then I switched to football at the last second.

Q.   How has the season been for you?   Especially with having different quarterbacks at one point that you're playing with?   Has it made it a little rocky this season? 
JARED ABBREDERIS:   Yeah, I mean, obviously we had that chemistry with the quarterback, so it kind of takes a little bit to get that chemistry with each guys.   It's changed, and you have to take a little step back and try to work on the chemistry again with the quarterback.   We have to work in the summer with all three guys because there wasn't a starter named in the summer.   Once the season came, it kind of helped out a little bit.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
JARED ABBREDERIS:   We started with Danny and then Stave and then Curt.

Q.   It wasn't because of injuries.   Was it ineffectiveness? 
JARED ABBREDERIS:   Stave got hurt.   Something with his collarbone.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
JARED ABBREDERIS:   So this is going into the Rose Bowl, this is just his fifth start.   (Indiscernible).   It's kind of strange that you could get this in a BCS Bowl game. Two young quarterbacks, but they're both playing great.

Q.   Talk about Montee Ball.   What's he like? 
JARED ABBREDERIS:   He's a fun guy to be around.   A great athlete, great player, great teammate.   So fun to have on the team.

Q.   Are people in Wisconsin as excited for the Rose Bowl as they have been the last couple of years?   Or is it getting to be old habit for people there? 
JARED ABBREDERIS:   I think they kind of expect it.   You know, we've kind of been blessed with the opportunity to go the past two years, and this is the third year.   We're maybe starting to spoil them, but that's a blessing to be able to have this opportunity.   But, no, they're definitely behind us and excited.

Q.   You guys have sort of opened things up, wildcat, different sort of deals.   How has that changed the dynamic in the offense in the second half of the season? 
JARED ABBREDERIS:   I mean, yeah, we've had some different formations, and personnel, things like that, different plays.   You know, Coach has done a good job finding the players and using what they do best.   We've changed a lot since the beginning of the year.   And I think it's been for the better.   Obviously we've been able to put some points up.

Q.   I remember watching the championship game out here on the west coast.   It must have been every play in the back of the playbook.   You were pulling out all kinds of stuff.   What was it like when you saw you were going to use all this stuff this week? 
JARED ABBREDERIS:   Yeah, it was fun.   You have some trick plays and things that you think might work.   You're always excited to get them called in the game and be able to execute them.   But that's what it comes down to is execution.   You can drop any play you want, but the players have to execute.   So Coach did a great job coming up with a game plan.   It was one of those games where everything was on. 
So it's a blessing to be here.   It's a blessing to be part of this team, the coaching staff and all of that.   And everything that goes into it.   So it was fun.

Q.   You guys couldn't have gotten off to a more shaky start.   When was the turning point?   How did you turn it around to where you're back here? 
JARED ABBREDERIS:   I think we just stuck together.   I'd say that.   A lot of people doubted us, but we kind of believed in ourselves, and believed in each other as a team and didn't really let I go bring us down.   We could all listen to the media or what people are saying, but we kind of just stuck together and just kept fighting and working hard and keep getting better.   So the big turning point for us is sticking together and coming closer as a team.

Q.   Last year (Indiscernible) all purpose, all over the place, all the yards.   Where do you feel you've made the most strides in the last year? 
JARED ABBREDERIS:   I would say our receiver became a lot better route runner and just working on some of the smaller skills in the game, like releases and things like that.   Getting in and out of my break.   I feel like I'm a lot better route runner, and just getting off the ball.   I feel like I'm a lot more equipped with some of the tools that I've been able to add into my game.

Q.   Last two years it's come down to the final minute of the last possession.   Do you expect the same deal each year?   Obviously both teams want it to be not close.   But you have to expect that when you have a great team like Stanford coming in? Their front seven gets most of the credit.   But when you look at their secondary, what do you see? 
JARED ABBREDERIS:   They make plays.   They have a couple of pick sixes.   They have guys that they like to fit on the run.   They play really sound defense.   So we've got to make sure we're on at the wideout position and tight ends, and whoever is catching the ball.   They have pretty good guys back there, and they're going to be a good test for us.

Q.   This strikes me as a game that when you get the play‑action opportunities and a chance to get a deep ball, you're going to have to make every one of those opportunities count.   Is that a fair assessment in your mind? 
JARED ABBREDERIS:   That's every game.   You have to take advantage of every opportunity you get.   Just like all year, some of them we missed and some we made.   If we want to come up with the W, you have to take advantage of every opportunity you get.

Q.   At the quarterback position, you've had turmoil there.   Did you assess how Curt has fair in the last part of the year? 
JARED ABBREDERIS:   He's been good.   He's stepped in and be a leader for us.   We've all rallied around him.   He's been around for four years now, maybe five.   He knows the program, and all the guys have rallied around him, so he's been playing great for us.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
JARED ABBREDERIS:   Family studies.   I'm probably going to be‑‑ I was thinking about going into physical therapy.   I could still go into that.   I'd have to go to grad school.   I still took classes to be able to do that.   But I'm thinking about becoming like a youth pastor or something like that.

Q.   (Indiscernible). 
JARED ABBREDERIS:   Yeah.

Q.   (Indiscernible) are you enjoying your stay here? 
JARED ABBREDERIS:   Yeah.   Yeah, we all get together really good.   Everybody's kind of selfless, so we can all hang out, and nobody's really too good for anybody else, so, yeah.   That's the best part of it, having a whole bunch of brothers that you can rely on.

Q.   Does your family come out too? 
JARED ABBREDERIS:   Yeah, they'll be out.   They're probably coming the 30th.

Q.   Will you see them at all? 
JARED ABBREDERIS:   Yeah, I'll probably see them after the game, and that's about it.

Q.   It's nice to have that support? 
JARED ABBREDERIS:   Yeah, definitely. 
It's crazy I've been here.   This is my third year, not a lot of people get the opportunity.   It's like some of these guys have been here, like the class under me three bowl games they've come to has been the Rose Bowl.   They're spoiled.   They don't know anything else.   There are teams that don't even make a bowl game, so it's definitely been a blessing. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT