PAC-12 WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 3, 2017
Tara VanDerveer
Karlie Samuelson
Kaylee Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Stanford - 66, WSU - 36   
THE MODERATOR: Coach, an opening statement, and then we'll take questions.   
TARA VANDERVEER: I thought Washington State had a great season, to get through the injuries that they did, and their team played really, really hard.  I thought we just came out and jumped on them.  And Karlie, Kayle, Britt, Bird, we just came out really playing well.  Then we were able to get a lot of young players in the game.  I think sometimes we had some turnovers at that point.   
But I think it was a great first game for our team.  To be able to play everybody, to get them tournament experience I think is really, really critical.   
 Q.  I don't think you had a starter playing more than 20 minutes?  
TARA VANDERVEER: Yeah, I was just looking at that, too, yeah.   
 Q.  Looking ahead, will that hopefully help you the next night, maybe two?  
TARA VANDERVEER: Well, that's exactly right.  You know, we have people that work really hard.  Dijonai came in and got six rebounds in 16 minutes, Nadia scored for us.  You know, it's a different stage.  So some of the younger players, it's a different pace and tournament, just more adrenaline and everything.  It's just good to get them experience.  Like you said, you've got to rest people like Karlie, like Kayle, Bird.  You know, people that played major, major minutes for us.   
 Q.  Karlie, and Coach, Karlie, you got a lot of wide-open looks it looked like from the three-point range tonight and knocked six of them down.  Do you do anything special to get open?  Is that part of the system?  
KARLIE SAMUELSON: I think Washington State was kind of in their zone that they play, and my teammates found me really well.  I did miss quite a few wide-open ones, too, but my teammates found me, and I thought we moved the ball well.   
 Q.  I think it's easy to say they missed their first 11 shots, but when three of those are also blocked and the other ones are contested, does that make it a little tentative, rush their shots?  Even when they do get a good look, it takes then out of their comfort zone?  
TARA VANDERVEER: I think that anytime you get down like 16-0, it's probably very discouraging.  Missing shots, blocked shots, I really felt that our team playing our first night and their second night, we just really wanted to come out and run on them.  You know, we did.  We got out to a really nice lead right from the get-go.   
And after that I think our defense was outstanding.  The fact that they didn't make any threes was really good.  They had made threes night before.  The fact that they didn't really -- we outrebounded them, so our defense, our rebounding, then offensively our key people were able to rest and other people were able to help us.  I thought it was all good.   
 Q.  Karlie and Kaylee, to only play 26, 27 minutes tonight, how much do you think that that helps you going into the rest of the weekend?  
KARLIE SAMUELSON: Oh, it's great.  We're excited to play tomorrow and getting like D, Alexa, all the bigs in, I think it's great and it's really going to help us tomorrow too.   
KAYLEE JOHNSON: Yeah, just to go off of that, I think it's really comforting knowing that you don't have to depend on just five players to play the entire game, knowing that we have six other players on the bench that we trust that we're excited for who can go in and get minutes too.  The.   
Yeah, we're just all really excited for each other anytime any of us can get on the floor.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT