ROSE BOWL GAME: OHIO STATE VS WASHINGTON
December 30, 2018
Myles Gaskin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You knew you were coming here for a while now, but to finally have the patch on, to walk in the locker rooms, have the jersey on, what's kind of the feeling now that you know it's close?
MYLES GASKIN: Yeah, I think that's just what we were here for all along, just kind of excited for the time and excited that it's getting closer and closer.  Just ready.
Q. Talk about your relationship with Salvon, just on and off the field how you guys have grown?
MYLES GASKIN: That's my guy.  We do everything together.  We live together.  We're running backs.  We're always around each other, so we're always bugging each other, giving each other a hard time.  But that's bro, that's my guy for life.  I think he's helped my game a lot, and I think I've helped his game a lot, and I think we've grown into individuals a lot, just having fun each and every day, college life and everything like that, growing up and being young men.
Q. How good is he?
MYLES GASKIN: He's really good, really fast, really good, all that stuff.
Q. How different has been kind of the lead-up to this bowl game been compared to previous bowls?
MYLES GASKIN: I think there's a lot more events, but I mean, like I said, I've never been to Disneyland before, so I think that was the coolest thing ever.  Outside of that, I think it's a lot of fun, all the events are a lot of fun, but at the end of the day, we're playing a game.  So it's kind of all the same, at the same time.
Q. Coach Petersen said that they kind of re-looked back on the preparation the weeks leading up to the bowl game after the lack of success the last couple years.  What has stood out to you as the biggest difference getting ready for this on the field than in previous years?
MYLES GASKIN: I think just kind of the experience, having older guys that were a part of those losses, last two losses in bowl games, and I think we've kind of learned from what our mistakes and how we went into those games and how we're coming into this game, and I think that's the biggest thing, just having older guys that have been around and know what to do and how to go about it, just like the bowl events, not to be super excited for the bowl events.  We all know that we have a game to play, and that's the reason why we are here, and that's the big difference.
Q. How do you think this senior class will be remembered, or how do you think they should be remembered?
MYLES GASKIN: Just a group of guys that kind of -- a family.  I mean, obviously we're all a family, but just kind of all those guys that came in together, and the senior class that redshirted, that's a part of that senior class, I think everybody is just real close knit.  We've seen a lot.  We went from 7-6 to the Peach Bowl to playing Penn State and all that type of stuff.  I just think a lot of guys have a lot of experience, a lot of guys have put in the time and all the work, and we're there for the younger guys whenever they need it.
Q. Have you thought about what it's going to be like to play in your last college football game?
MYLES GASKIN: No.  I mean, I probably will the next day after the game, but there's no reason to think about it until it comes.  Just think about the game.  I mean, it is what it is.
Q. What are the biggest threats the Ohio State defense brings?
MYLES GASKIN: They've got a good scheme, but at the same time, they have really good players.  They've got a lot of great athletes on the field and a lot of guys that are hungry to run to the ball, so I feel like that's the biggest thing.  I think this is the best team we've played all year, so that's probably our biggest challenge.  There's a lot of guys that are hungry to play football.  That's the type of game you want, especially in the Rose Bowl.  As big as this is, just going against an opponent like this is really exciting.
Q. Do you know what a buckeye is?
MYLES GASKIN: No.
Q. Don't eat one.
MYLES GASKIN: What exactly is it?
Q. There are trees in Ohio, and in the Midwest, there are Buckeye trees, and there's a nut that grows in the fall, and it's dark brown and there's a lighter brown spot.
MYLES GASKIN: That's it?
Q. That's the best I can explain it.
MYLES GASKIN: Okay.  Well, that's cool.  Learn something new every day.  I didn't learn nothing today, so thank you.
Q. Can you tell us who wins the races when you and Salvon go head-to-head?
MYLES GASKIN: We haven't raced since the summer, but I won those ones.  We went best out of five, and I won three of them.  He did beat me, but he isn't faster than me, and he knows it.
Q. Chris Petersen, what has he done that has helped shape this team and this program?
MYLES GASKIN: Just kind of taught us the ropes of being a man.  I mean, at the end of the day, I mean, I think that's his biggest thing is that it's not just about football and that football can go into your actual life just as much, too, just kind of being early for stuff, just dressing appropriate for stuff, stuff like that.  I think he's always been trying to teach us, hey, these kind of things go hand in hand, and once this football thing is over, when you go to the NFL or if it's the last college game you want, we want you guys to be prepared for the real world.  Going to class, things like that.  Just kind of taking care of business, not just kind of having fun as a regular college student.  We've got to be different, and I think that's his biggest thing.  I think that's what we all know and what we all do.
Q. How are your emotions heading into this game?
MYLES GASKIN: I'm not too emotional a dude, so I don't think it's like a -- I think it's a big deal, of course, but I'm just really excited to play in this game.  At the end of the day, I'm not too looking into, oh, this is my last game.  I'm ready to just go out there and have fun, and after the game is over, I guess it'll probably hit me then, but I'm not too worried about that.
Q. You and Jake Browning have been here four years together.  Talk to me about the camaraderie between seniors on this team.
MYLES GASKIN: We just kind of grew together from the 7-6 season when we first came in until now.  I think we've just kind of -- more than just football, just grown together as like young men, just growing up, kind of learning what we can do to help this team on and off the field and help this program on and off the field.  I think that's the biggest thing.  And Jake, I mean, he's done a lot for this program, just as much as anybody else, probably more than just as much as anybody else.  I mean, I've got nothing but love for that guy always, and just very thankful to have him back there with me, thankful to have him on this team.
Q. How does it feel being here today?
MYLES GASKIN: Feels great.  Thankful.  It's a great feeling to be out here at the Rose Bowl, out here in LA, so I'm having fun with it.
Q. Was there a point of the season where you guys didn't think you'd be able to make it because it was kind of up and down, with some of the early losses?
MYLES GASKIN: I think it was on people's minds.  I don't think we were thinking we weren't going to make it, I think we just knew the urgency of our situation, how we had to win out and really keep on winning.  So I think that's what kind of happened.  I think we all kind of put that on our own shoulders, and then each person did what they could and tried to play their game up that much more, and I think that's what happened.
But I mean, that's what we're here for, to make plays and enjoy the ride.
Q. What's the biggest challenge that Ohio State's defense presents to you guys?
MYLES GASKIN: They've got a great scheme, just defensive play calling wise, and they've got a lot of athletes.  They've got the best athletes in the country, and those guys like to play football.  Them dudes like to hit.  They like to run to the football, and I think this is the best defense we've played all year, so it's going to be a big challenge.  But I think that's how it's supposed to be in the Rose Bowl.  Just being in just a big game, a lot of people are going to be watching, and this is what you want.  This is what you want out of this type of game, so I'm very excited.
Q. How does your family feel about being here?
MYLES GASKIN: They're excited.  They just got in yesterday.  They're excited.  They ain't really ever been out to LA before, either.  I was just talking to my dad about it, he don't know what he was going to do.  He went to Roscoe's yesterday.  Yeah, just it's a cool thing to have some family out here, a lot of people are coming out here, coming to watch this last game for myself, and just it's great.  I'm very thankful for the position I'm in and thankful for this team and Coach Pete and everything.
Q. Did you give out a lot of tickets for the game?
MYLES GASKIN: Yeah, I think we got like -- I want to say like 20 tickets for a whole bunch of people.
Q. That's quite a bit.
MYLES GASKIN: Yeah, we're going to have some hands out there, so yeah, it's going to be cool.
Q. How would you describe the journey you and Jake have been on, going through the Washington program?
MYLES GASKIN: We've had our ups and downs.  We for sure have had our ups and downs.  But the thing about Jake, he always fights.  Myself, I think I always fight, as well.  That's why I've got so much love for Jake.  I feel like we're one and the same in the sense of we just always want to go out there and compete each and every day.  We got a bad practice or a bad game, and we go and watch film on it to make sure that don't ever happen again, try never to repeat the same mistakes, and just kind of having him back there to coach me up wherever I need it, and I'll let him know whenever he needs it.  But Jake, I'm just very thankful to have him back there with me the last four years.  Couldn't ask for a better dude to be a quarterback.
Q. How does going through the Pac-12 prepare you for a team like Ohio State?
MYLES GASKIN: I think each team is very different.  I don't think any team really prepares you for the next one because it's different dudes, they've got different strengths, they've got different weaknesses.  I mean, the Pac-12 is the Pac-12, and it's a great conference, but I mean, not looking at the Pac-12 to say, oh, to get ready for Ohio State.  I think just watching film and stuff like that is going to get me ready for Ohio State.
Q. Where do you see the program headed once you guys leave and turn it over to the young guys?
MYLES GASKIN: I think the sky's the limit for these guys, for these young guys.  I think they've seen us and seen that -- seen what we did or what we've done, and I think they're going to learn from our mistakes because we've fallen short on some instances.  We haven't been perfect, nobody has been perfect, and I think they can make those little things that we've fallen short on that much better.  I'm really excited for these guys.  These guys all have -- you see it in every one of them.  We spend a lot of time with these guys, and you see in every one of them that they want to fight.  They want to get better.  They're not just out here just to have fun.  I mean, of course we have fun, but they really want to get better and up their game, up this program.  I'm really excited for that, and I'll be watching.  I'll be watching.  I'm very excited.
Q. The gravity of what you've accomplished at Washington as a team, where the program was when you came in and where you leave it now, do you ever think about that?
MYLES GASKIN: Yeah, I mean, I think it's really cool.  When I was growing up, it really wasn't what it is right now, so I think it's very exciting to have that.  But I'll look back on that once it's all said and done and probably tell my kids about it, but right now I'm just having the time of my life.
Q. The past, the '80s and '90s, does that play a role at all?  Do you get those guys coming back at all?
MYLES GASKIN: Yeah, yeah, absolutely.  Dudes kind of shake your hand like, man, y'all back at it, y'all back doing it.  We're back where we're supposed to be.  It's a great feeling to have that, to know that, and to have the support of those old guys, and really appreciate it.
Q. What's it mean to you to be part of this Rose Bowl history?
MYLES GASKIN: It's great.  It's a great feeling.  Very excited for what's to come, and just ready to go.
Q. You don't miss the cold weather, do you?
MYLES GASKIN: No.  I do miss the crib.  I do miss the crib.  I'm a home body.  But no, I'm enjoying the weather out here right now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT