PLAYSTATION FIESTA BOWL: PENN STATE VS WASHINGTON
December 28, 2017
Myles Gaskin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What were the first thoughts when you heard you were going to this bowl game?
MYLES GASKIN: I've never been to Arizona before, that's probably the first one.  Just excited against -- opportunity to play against a good team.  Just really excited to get a direction on what we was doing.  Ready to get it going.
Q. You and Penn State are so similar in a lot of ways.  Your records are the same, you both had playoffs dreams (indiscernible).  The playoff wasn't going to be it this year.  How has that affected your mindset going into this game?
MYLES GASKIN: Just kind of taking one game at a time really.  You can't get too far ahead of yourself, that's when you start losing, that's when you start losing your composure and everything like that, when you start looking over the horizon.  Trying to look at the game right in front of you.  That's what helped us toward the end of the season.  Just getting here is just, won the last game and go all out for it.
Q. You were a playoff team and you were the team that a lot of people thought kept Penn State out of the playoff.  Is it ironic you're playing them now a year later in a game like this?
MYLES GASKIN: I guess so.  I never thought about it like that.  I thought the whole thing was getting SC in there maybe.
Q. I think they were five and you were four is what ultimately came down to it.
MYLES GASKIN: Never crossed my mind until now, until you talk about it, but kind of crazy, huh?  Just how one year can change everything.
Q. Obviously you and Saquon Barkley are two of the feature performers in this game.  You look similar to each other on tape.  How do you differ in your styles?
MYLES GASKIN: He's a bigger dude, lot bigger dude.  Probably faster than me.  I can't really say -- I don't know his styles.  I don't know.  I don't know so much.  He's just a great player, to be honest.  Everybody knows that he runs hard.  He's very shifty for how big he is and he gets it going.
Once he gets out there, he does not get caught and he can return the ball.  He's got a lot of things to his game that they're just outstanding.  A lot of people talk about him but I don't think he really -- there's hype around it, but it's not hype.  I don't think people really understand how good he is.  It's cool to be able to play against him and this team it will be fun.
Q. Do people understand how good you are?
MYLES GASKIN: I don't know.  I don't get too caught up in all that stuff.  I just like playing football.
Q. When you look at this game from Pac-10/Big Ten standpoint, does that kind of excite you a little bit, because there's sort of a natural rivalry there given the long Rose Bowl history between the conferences and everything.  Does that sort of motivate you a little bit more even?
MYLES GASKIN: Yeah.  I mean, I just think it's cool to get to play against a different type of, different conference team in a different type of style.
I think every conference has its own type of style, personally I think the practices kind of spread you out and get the ball on the edges.  And just to get to play against some different guys, I really think so.
And I think it should be real fun.  Those guys, their defense is real good.  I mean, nobody's not good on their team.  You can usually always pick out a couple of guys, like, oh, their safeties are weak or their corners aren't so good or something like that.
But looking at film, I was watching film last night, you can't really put a spot, like, oh, we can come at that.  It's just going to come down to details and playing them straight up, playing them as hard as we can.
Q. The chance to end your season with a win in a bowl game, especially in a season that may not have worked out as you visually planned it, is that important to you guys?
MYLES GASKIN: Absolutely.  Like you said it wasn't the way we wanted it to end up.  This is not where we wanted to be, but we're glad we're here.  (Inaudible).
But just another opportunity to go play in a big stage.  It's, like, game starts at 2:00, so everybody's going to be watching.  It's just going to be fun, big stage to perform on.  So it will be cool.
Q. (Question about Saquon Barkley)
MYLES GASKIN: I think the way he has a stop and go.  The fact he can change directions so fast is very impressive.  I really do.  It's kind of incredible how big he is and how strong he is that he can just put his foot in the ground and go the other way.
Q. Have you met up with him since you got out here?
MYLES GASKIN: No.
Q. (Question from Dante Pettis) who is your favorite receiver?
MYLES GASKIN: Do I count as a receiver?
Q. No.
MYLES GASKIN: I have two receiving touchdowns, Dante.  I count as a receiver.
Q. Wanted to ask you about Browning, what's that stands out most to you about him?
MYLES GASKIN: I think the thing people don't see, which is hard to see, obviously, is that he's a real competitor.  He takes this game to heart.  Like he loves this game.
He's always trying to work on his game.  He's always watching film.  But he's a real good dude.  Like he has no problem getting on you about messing up.  Like he always wants everybody to be at their best.  He doesn't slack off on nobody and sometimes that hurts other people's feelings.
I mean, it is what it is.  But I kind of look up to him in that sense he has no problem yelling at him like a coach some guys don't have the heart to do it and nothing wrong with that at all, nothing wrong with that at all but being in that quarterback position kind of has to and he's embraced it since day one.
That's one of the things I really do look up to him about and he won't give up until the bitter end.  Like he will scramble around.
Sometimes it hurts him, but like I'm never mad at him.  I know Coach probably has something to say about it.  But I'm never mad at him.  I know where it comes from.  It's not just him scrambling around to scramble around, he's trying to make a big play.  Every time he's on the field, every time we go on offense, huddle, hype us up.  We're going to go down here, score, go down here and do something, something, something, something.
And he's just got it, you know what I'm saying?  Just got that umpf about him.  He's ready to play all the time.
Q. Getting on guys, every quarterback has to have some of that from a leadership standpoint.  It kind of depends how you deliver it and whether you can get over it if he gets on you.
MYLES GASKIN: Yeah, like I said, in that position you do have to, but I think he just takes in that role a lot better than a lot of people I've ever seen.
I can only speak for the University of Washington, and things I've heard from other people.  But I just think he has no problem.  If it's the O lineman towers over everybody has no problem getting right in their face about it myself.  Jake has no problem if he really has something to say to me he has no problem saying it to me and like it doesn't matter if you've been starting every single year you've been here you're a redshirt freshman does not care wants everybody to be at their best.
Q. If there's ever a situation like that do you ever talk about it later with him like --
MYLES GASKIN: Me personally.
Q. Like man, you were on me.
MYLES GASKIN: Me personally, no, I think my freshman year we got into it a lot.  Not a lot, but like I messed up a lot as a freshman.  There's no sugarcoating it.  So he get at me, no problem with it.
I've heard it all before.  I've been cussed out by my high school coach.  It's just football.  Nothing like that.
Q. You don't take it personal?
MYLES GASKIN: Don't take it personal because you always gotta know it's from a place of, hey, we want to be the best we possibly can be, you know what I'm saying?  It's not, oh, you're so bad, you're so this.  It's like I know you can do better and let's see it.  It's not putting guys down.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT