NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CAVALIERS v HAWKS
May 26, 2015
Paul Millsap
Jeff Teague
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Atlanta Hawks - 88
  Cleveland Cavaliers - 118

Q.   I just guess for both of you:   Kind of what do you think went wrong tonight, especially with kind of all that was at stake? 
PAUL MILLSAP:   They just outplayed us, simple as that.   Stuck to the game plan.   They came out firing on all cylinders.   Playing from behind all game, it was tough.   The crowd got into it.   A good team just beat us.

Q.   Jeff or either, how would you sum up the season?   Obviously ended disappointedly, but overall, you guys did a lot of things pretty well. 
JEFF TEAGUE:   Proud of everybody in that locker room.   We had a great season.   Guys played hard.   We did a lot of things in Atlanta basketball history this year.   We had a great season, won a lot of games, but we ended on a disappointing note, and I think everyone in the locker room is disappointed in themselves. 
It's early for our team.   It's only our second year together.   We're looking forward to getting back in the gym and getting ready for next year.

Q.   Game 3 after Al went out, the team was pretty resilient and hung in there emotionally and almost pulled an upset.   Tonight Cleveland got up early, and you guys seemed to fade away pretty quickly.   Would I be wrong to suggest that emotionally everything just kind of caught up to you tonight? 
JEFF TEAGUE:   No.   I think we were ready to play, just they play well.   They made shots.   Kyrie Irving came in and gave them a boost during the game, and I think they just fed off of that energy from the crowd; we just couldn't recover.

Q.   Jeff, can this system, which performed exceptionally well, can it beat a superstar in a seven‑game series? 
JEFF TEAGUE:   Yes, we've seen it.   We have a similar system as the Spurs, and you've seen them win championships.   So it's possible.   You've just got to be able to play well all the time, and we didn't in this series.

Q.   Question for both:   What has been your biggest, I guess, takeaway or observation from going this deep in the playoffs for both of you guys? 
PAUL MILLSAP:   This is my second time being here, but with a different team, different atmosphere, different everything. 
It's been a good run.   It's been a tough playoffs from start to finish for us.   Couldn't really find our rhythm, but we felt like we hung in there and we fought.   Things just didn't go our way. 
JEFF TEAGUE:   It was a learning experience for, I think, everybody in our group.   It was new for me playing in the Eastern Conference Finals, and I enjoyed the whole run.   We had battles in the first series, second series, but it was just an honor to be here.   I think we enjoyed it.

Q.   You guys just kind of talk about this as your second year together, but, Paul, you'll be an unrestricted free agent after this year.   I wonder how much, Jeff, you're going to be in his ear to keep this group together?   Is that important to you, Paul, as far as the strides the team has made this year, to build on that? 
PAUL MILLSAP:   I think looking at different options, looking at this team, looking at what we've built thus far, I'm weighing my options.   I can't make a decision right now.   It's been a long series, a long year for me, for our team.   Let things die down, cool off, relax, and then think about it a little bit. 
But we're family.   This team is close, and it will play a lot into the decision. 
JEFF TEAGUE:   I enjoyed every moment playing with him.   It made me a better player.   I think he enjoys being around all the guys, him and DeMarre.   I'm looking forward for them guys to be back and get another crack at it.

Q.   For either or both of you, do you think the Cavaliers have what it takes to go all the way now? 
PAUL MILLSAP:   I don't know.   They beat the No.1 seed in the East.   Maybe. 
JEFF TEAGUE:   They have some great players.   So anything is possible when you get in a series.   Somebody can get hot.   So I don't know, maybe. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT