NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CAVALIERS v HAWKS
May 20, 2015
Jeff Teague
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Cleveland Cavaliers - 97
  Atlanta Hawks - 89

Q.   Jeff, just kind of wondering in your mind what happened with J.R. Smith kind of getting away from you guys? 
JEFF TEAGUE:   He didn't get away.   He just made some tough threes.   He's a good player.   He made shots with people draped all over him, hands in his face.   Just got to tip your hat off to him. 

Q.   Jeff, on a positive note, you guys did this before, you lost Game 1 to the Wizards.   How will you draw from that experience going forward? 
JEFF TEAGUE:   Just got to come out fighting, come out ready to play with a lot of intensity.   It's going to be a war the next couple of games; we know that.   So it's a must win for us next game with our backs against the wall. 

Q.   Three‑pointer, you were 4‑for‑20, was that a matter of not getting the looks you wanted or shots just not falling? 
JEFF TEAGUE:   Shots weren't falling.   Guys were open, but we just didn't capitalize on the shots tonight.

Q.   Looks like there might be a possibility you'll be moving forward without DeMarre, depending on the severity of his injury.   I'm just kind of wondering what the mindset of the team is when that happens. 
JEFF TEAGUE:   Just got to continue to keep playing.   Somebody has to step up.   DeMarre's been our glue guy all year, been playing well in the playoffs, been our best player in the past couple of series.   Hopefully, he can get back healthy soon, but one of the guys in there has to step up.

Q.   It seemed like you and DeMarre were switching on the pick‑and‑roll pretty often in the first half.   Was that something that you guys planned to, or was that a product of their offensive execution? 
JEFF TEAGUE:   Something we planned going into the game, figured it was something that would help us.   But in the second half, we went back to our normal defense.   They were effective with both of them, so it really didn't matter. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT