NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 13, 2015
Jeff Teague
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How do you describe the chemistry you guys have?  Everybody in the league is talking about the way you guys play as a team.  How does that develop?JEFF TEAGUE: Just liking one another on and off the court.  We really enjoy being around each other.  It's fun.  Great group of guys.  Nobody has any problems.  Nobody has an ego.  We check it at the door.  That's really it.Q. How does that start?  Does it just happen?  Do you go out of your way --JEFF TEAGUE: Just the type of guys we have in the locker room.  Good character guys.  Guys that bought into the system.Q. What does it mean to have four of you here?  The most in a team.  You were a team clearly underrated.JEFF TEAGUE: That's big.  Guys work really hard.  See them being rewarded like this, it's big.Q. Do you think it speaks to the fact that nobody has eye-popping stats and that's usually what you see in this room, the guys with huge stats?  The fact that there's four of you is a nod to the fact that it's more of a team sense --JEFF TEAGUE: I think guys on our team know they can have more numbers.  I think we sacrifice it for the better of the team.  Paul Millsap, he can easily average 22 points a game, whatever he wants to.  He sacrifices for the team.  So we can be a good team.  It works for us.Q. Do you get the sense that people are starting to buy into you guys?  You get this feeling everybody didn't see you coming in first place.  Now they're not sure if this is for real.  How much do you believe in the Hawks?JEFF TEAGUE: Can't worry about everybody thinks.  We have to keep doing what we're doing and hopefully it works out.Q. What's the atmosphere been like in Atlanta?  More and more the people like to see the way you play.JEFF TEAGUE: We're having sellout games.  The city has been behind us.  They're embracing us.  Just trying to make it happen.Q. To be here with your coach, too, what kind of feeling is that like?JEFF TEAGUE: It's cool.  I know I'm going to get to play.Q. Could you talk a little bit about the great development of Dennis Schroder.JEFF TEAGUE: Dennis is a great talent.  He plays really, really hard.  He works every day.  Really good player.Q. Do you see some parts of the young Jeff Teague in Dennis?  You both had rough starts.JEFF TEAGUE: Yeah, yeah.  He's definitely like my little brother.  He's taken almost the same journey that I took.  It's certainly going to be a bright future for him.Q. Do you try to be a mentor for him?JEFF TEAGUE: Definitely.  He's like my little brother.  We sit on the plane together.  Talk every day.  I'm happy for him.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT