NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 15, 2013
Jeff Teague
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Do you feel like year four of your career you're being recognized to be in something like this, and kind of like you weren't here for Rookie‑Sophomore, but now you've got to the point in your career where you're coming into your own.   Do you feel like that?
JEFF TEAGUE:   I've been working hard every day to get better.   And to be recognized to be in this competition is a great honor.

Q.   When you look at your team, obviously I think they see you as a building block.   Is that kind of how you're looking at it now, that they're looking to build around you and Al and some of the other guys?
JEFF TEAGUE:   I'm not sure.   I just try to go out every night and play the best I can for our team.   But if they would like to build around me, I'm all for it.   I love the organization. 

Q.   You had a little bit of a kind of slower start to your career.   What was the defining point where you figured out my speed, my quickness is going to translate at this level?   Was it the playoffs your second year?
JEFF TEAGUE:   Yeah, probably definitely the playoffs.   It was nice to come out and make some plays.   My rookie year, I really didn't get a chance, but I kept working and trying to get better.

Q.   Do you think it helped you in the beginning going to a veteran team and having older players around you to show you the ropes a little bit?
JEFF TEAGUE:   I would say yeah, but as a young guy you don't really realize that.   You want to go out and play.   In the end looking back at it right now, it helped me a lot.   I learned so many things that I didn't know coming into it. 

Q.   How is your brother doing?
JEFF TEAGUE:   He's doing pretty good.   He's got the similar situation that I was in.   I can relate to him. 

Q.   What about this event, what are your thoughts about being a part of this?
JEFF TEAGUE:   It should be fun.   I really just want to see the shooting and the dunk contest.   I hope I can go out and compete and hope we can take home the trophy. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT