OKLAHOMA CITY THUNDER MEDIA CONFERENCE
April 25, 2019
Jerami Grant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Jerami, you seem to add another tool to the tool box every summer, so to speak.  Do you have anything in mind for this summer?  
JERAMI GRANT: Yeah, I'm going to try to work on everything -- consistency with my shooting, ball handling, defense, everything pretty much.   
 Q.  Do you think you'll have the same role, like staying at the four for next season?  
JERAMI GRANT: Yeah, I think so.  We'll see, though.   
 Q.  Jerami, what role has Billy had in your development since you've been here, and what communications will you have moving forward?  
JERAMI GRANT: Yeah, I think the coaches, Billy, all of them, they did a good job of just putting me in situations where I can thrive.  I think they've been doing that since I got here.  So it's definitely good.   
 Q.  What do you think you guys are missing to get over the hump of getting past the first round?  
JERAMI GRANT: Just consistency, I think.  That's the thing we've been struggling with throughout the year.  We'll be on for ten games and then be off a couple.  So I think that's something we've got to figure out this off-season.   
 Q.  Jerami, how do you unplug and then kind of get back into the gym, get back into your whole swing of things, and then get back for regular season?  How do you kind of do that on the off-season?  
JERAMI GRANT: It's tough.  It's tough.  Season kind of ends abruptly.  So you got to wind down a little bit, take a couple days off, a week off, something like that, and just get back into it, right back into it.  I try not to take too much time off, though, so I can stay in the groove of things.   
 Q.  Jerami, I have no idea probably what it felt like when you got traded here a few years ago, but I would imagine, you being under rookie contract and kind of under some uncertainty, as you look back to then and to now where you're at, just so solidly developed yourself into the type of player you are, I don't know, how does that feel?  How has that process been for you to go through all that?  
JERAMI GRANT: It's been great.  I think it's one of the best things that could have happened to my career, just getting traded here from Philly.  Just the opportunity here.  It was an opportunity in Philly as well, but the opportunity here to play on a great team, play in a great organization like this, it was -- I think it was huge for me and my career, just in my development.  I've gotten so much better since I got here.  I think -- like I said, it's just great for me.   
 Q.  Something Paul mentioned was, up until this year, your three-point shooting numbers had improved, but this is the first year you were really high volume, like a lot of attempts each game from three.  He thought that you'd really grow from having that experience throughout this season.  Do you know exactly kind of what he means from that, about that, and how you think that will help you moving forward?  
JERAMI GRANT: Definitely.  I think -- I always say experience is the best teacher.  Just to be on the court and to be taking the amount of attempts from three that I took this year, going forward it's only going to make me better.  So I think that's what he's mentioning when he's talking about that.   
 Q.  You had an interesting career here since you've been in Oklahoma City.  First year coming off the bench playing the three and four.  Last year you were playing the backup five.  This year you're trying to come in and compete for a starting spot.  This is the first year you're going to have some consistency going into the next year knowing what your role is.  How is that different?   How is that going to change your mentality this summer?  
JERAMI GRANT: Well, we don't know if my role is going to be the same next year.  We'll see.  We'll see how things go.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT