TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 8, 2019
Jason Scrivener
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Wonderful rounds of 66 with no bogeys on the card. What was the secret to success today?
JASON SCRIVENER: Yeah, just kind of figured out any ball-striking. I did some work after my round yesterday with my coach and kind of figured a couple things out and hit it nicely today. That was key and holed some nice putts, too.
Q. Start of the season you got off really, really quickly, four Top 10s in your first Top-10s and then seventh in Spain recently. Is the game clicking in again?
JASON SCRIVENER: Yeah, it's coming around. I always struggle the middle part of the year, and same this year, kind of fighting my game, and it's good.
Q. Any particular reason for the struggle in the middle of the year?
JASON SCRIVENER: I've yet to find it out. So if anyone can figure it out, I'm happy to listen.
Q. 61 in Race to Dubai coming in, obviously the Top 60 qualify for Nedbank next week. How much is that in your thinking that you just need that little move forward?
JASON SCRIVENER: Yeah, with this format, no cut, it's kind of every day, there's a bit of pressure, but yeah, just trying to take each day as it comes. Yeah, my game is coming around nicely. Hope I can keep going.
Q. 66, how was that?
JASON SCRIVENER: It was nice. Felt stress-free. Hit it nicely and holed some good putts.
Q. We haven't seen you since France. What have you been up to in the meantime?
JASON SCRIVENER: I went home for a couple weeks. I had not been home for ten weeks. Really nice to get back and spend some time with friends and family and chill out.
Q. Coming to the end of the season, 61 on the Order of Merit, how much does that play on your mind going forward?
JASON SCRIVENER: A little bit. Just try not to think about it too much and take each day as it comes. It would be nice to get to Dubai, though.
Q. The last two days to come, what are the other positives you're going to bring forward?
JASON SCRIVENER: Yeah, I think I found something in my swing after the round yesterday. I struggled off the tee yesterday, and kind of figured things out and yeah, hopefully we can keep it going.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT