ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 19, 2012
Jason Scrivener
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Did you hear the comments that Greg Chalmers made about you yesterday?   
JASON SCRIVENER:   I did, yeah.   My dad just mentioned it to me last night.   I was pretty happy with that.   I wasn't sure if he remembered playing with me actually but it's nice to hear some say some nice things about me.  
   
 Q.   Does that put pressure on you, having someone like Greg Chalmers say those things?  
JASON SCRIVENER:   No, gives a confidence boost, no pressure at all.  
   
 Q.   Would you say this is an unusual situation for you to be in?  
JASON SCRIVENER:   A little bit.   I felt pretty comfortable out there today.   It's a little bit new to me but felt like I handled myself pretty well today which was nice.  
   
 Q.   And obviously, you had a fairly successful amateur career, is it hard to sort of parlay that into your professional career do you think?   
JASON SCRIVENER:   I think because I went through Golf Australia and went through the AIS, it was a pretty smooth change.   I did a lot of traveling as an amateur.   It's always a little bit tougher turning pro, so it's taken me a couple of years to get really comfortable.  
You see with Rory and Rickie Fowler and Matteo, it's becoming a lot more popular, the younger guys.   I've always believed that I can compete at this level.   It's just a matter of getting the chance and getting the break to do it.  
   
 Q.   Would you say the course particularly suits you?   
JASON SCRIVENER:   Not really.   I fade the ball and there's a few tee shots where you have to draw it.   But I feel I have been hitting the ball well so I can‑‑ my shot‑shaping and all that stuff has been pretty spot on.  
   
 Q.   How do you feel heading into the weekend?   
JASON SCRIVENER:   I'm looking forward to it.   It's going to be a new challenge for me.   Going to be a few nerves tomorrow.   Looking forward to it.   It will be good.   
   
 Q.   Do you expect big crowds supporting you?   
JASON SCRIVENER:   I've had my parents out the last couple of days and some friends out today, as well, but I have no idea what crowds will come out tomorrow; hopefully good.   
   
 Q.   What would a win here this week mean for you?   
JASON SCRIVENER:   Try not to think about it too much, but probably change my life for the next few years.   But yeah, just trying to keep one step at a time and keep things as simple as possible.   Doing it in front of the home crowd would be extra special.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT