SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 1, 2020
Michael Gligic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. What was the key to your round?
MICHAEL GLIGIC:   I just got the putter going.  I think, what, it started on No. 2.  I think I made about a 10-footer, and felt really good with the putter.  And yeah, fortunately a few went in today.
Q. With the pandemic you were a rookie last season.  Sort of got a little reprieve and you're able to play another season.  What did you learn not only about playing golf out here on the PGA TOUR but maybe about yourself in your first season out here?
MICHAEL GLIGIC:   Yeah, it's a whole different ball game as much as you want to simplify it and just say it's golf.  It's a little different out here on the PGA TOUR.  Yeah, it's just a learning curve for me, but I'm starting to feel pretty comfortable out here, and it's nice to see some of these golf courses for a second time.  I think my caddie and I are doing a good job and starting to settle in.
Q. Players have talked about the condition of the greens and the pace.  How big of a challenge is that for a player out there?
MICHAEL GLIGIC:   Yeah, it's quick out there.  I think the first hole I had about a 12-footer and hit it about five feet by.  Yeah, even with all the practice Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, it just kind of goes to show you how quick they really are.
After the first couple holes we got comfortable and yeah, we putted pretty nice.
Q. Was there an aha moment of being a rookie out here?
MICHAEL GLIGIC:   Not really.  I try and dumb it down and just treat it as golf.  There's a lot of things going around and a lot of guys I grew up idolizing.  I try not to drool over them too much and realize that they're just playing competitors, and I'm out to beat them just like they're out to beat me.
Yeah, nothing too crazy, though.
Q. Take me through the eagle.
MICHAEL GLIGIC:   Yeah, I hit a good drive, right center of the fairway.  I think I had like 245 pin and it was kind of into off the left, and the water kind of creeps in there on the right, and you've got to make sure you're left.  Just started it kind of on the left edge of the green and tried to hit it hard, and yeah, the wind just kind of hit it nicely and went to about 15 feet or so, and yeah, hit a nice putt down the hill and fortunately it went in.
Q. What did you find at Napa that you were able to carry over here this week?
MICHAEL GLIGIC:   It's just confidence.  I've been going through a couple little things in my swing, a couple swing changes I've been working on with my coaches, and yeah, it's nice, everything is kind of starting to click and we're starting to find some nice scores again.
Q. Who's your coach these days?
MICHAEL GLIGIC:   I work with Sean Foley and Ryan Corbin.  Ryan is here this week, so it's been nice to put in some work Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and yeah, I feel pretty good out there.
Q. I heard the story of you meeting Foley I think I read in your file 12, 13 years old, something like that?
MICHAEL GLIGIC:   Yeah, I think I've been working with Sean for -- I guess we were almost going on -- getting close to 20 years now.  I was just like a little 12-, 13-year-old punk kid, and he had just graduated college and started teaching.  I remember walking into Glen Abbey and my mom went up and said, this is my son, he's pretty passionate about the game and wants to take it serious, and Sean came running over, and the rest is history.  He's kind of made a great name for himself and developed some great players, and I can't thank him enough for all the time he's put in with me.
Q. Did I read this right, you moved to Orlando to work with him in high school?
MICHAEL GLIGIC:   Yeah, years ago when he started his first golf academy in Orlando there, I think I was 17, and Ryan Corbin, who's my other golf coach, he kind of works under Sean Foley, and I remember I was 17 years old, just got my first car, picked him up and we drove down together.  He was a player for years and just recently switched over to teaching, so yeah, it's been a nice little team here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT