RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 26, 2018
Michael Gligic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How would you summarize the day?  3-under, pretty good score.  Are you happy with it?  
MICHAEL GLIGIC: Yeah, pretty good.  I wanted that one on the last.  It's a tough little two-putt.  But overall a pretty good day.  A little nervy on I guess the first tee shot.  Other than that, settled in really well today and was able to make a couple putts.  Got myself in trouble a couple times on 7 there, and there was a couple good up-and-downs that I made to kind of keep myself in it and keep the momentum on my side.   
 Q.  You have played here obviously a number of times.  Can you compare what it's like playing a casual round here to playing in a PGA TOUR event?  
MICHAEL GLIGIC: Yeah, it's a little different, that's for sure.  Most of the time it's with a beer or two and my buddies.  So yeah, it's definitely a lot different.  The atmosphere has been great, and there's been a lot of support today so far, and hopefully the Canadians show up again tomorrow.   
 Q.  What did you expect from yourself heading into this event?  
MICHAEL GLIGIC: You know, I didn't really have a specific goal, like I wanted to make the cut or I wanted to win or whatever.  A lot of that's kind of out of my control.  I'm going to try and just hit one shot at a time and do what I can do and put myself in contention hopefully, and whatever happens happens.   
 Q.  When you were younger practicing and playing on this course, did you envision the first tee like that, as a kid when you were training here, what it might be like?  
MICHAEL GLIGIC: Yeah, I mean, I guess all those kids have those goals.  I don't know if when I was 13 outside the ropes getting autographs if I really thought it would be a reality that one day I'd be inside the ropes.  But it was a pretty cool experience, and I cherished that moment walking down 18.  There's been a lot of history here, and looking over at that Tiger bunker every time I walk down the fairway.  It's been a pretty cool experience, and just hopefully I can keep it going tomorrow.   
 Q.  There's been a lot of nostalgia around here this week.  Do you sense any of that yourself?  
MICHAEL GLIGIC: Not really.  I don't really know what's going on behind the scenes.  I think they've committed to Hamilton next year.  I'm not even 100 percent sure.  But hopefully this place stays around.  I know there's so much history there, it would be a shame to see it go.  But it is what it is.   
 Q.  How many rounds do you figure you're played here in your life?  
MICHAEL GLIGIC: I'm not even sure.  I played a lot as a junior.  But that's totally different.  I was obviously not the golfer I am now.  But back then, I maybe played like 100, but in the last 10 years maybe six or eight kind of thing.  As a pro, I don't have as much experience as everyone might think, but yeah, I have played here a few times, so I'm a little bit familiar.   
 Q.  What's your best round ever here?  
MICHAEL GLIGIC: I honestly don't even know.  I couldn't even tell you.  Probably not very good, though.  This course tends to eat me up when I'm playing for fun and not really playing for anything.   
 Q.  It's because you have those three beers in you, right?  
MICHAEL GLIGIC: I don't know, usually it's just a fun round with the guys.   
 Q.  Did conditions change during your round there?  There was a lot of things happening, wind came up and it rained more?  
MICHAEL GLIGIC: Yeah, the wind was kind of off and on, and you get the valley, it starts to swirl a little bit, so you've got to take an extra second and really commit to your shots down in the valley especially.  You know, it started to rain there, I went to pull out my umbrella, and my caddie looked at me and was like, oh, that's in the car.  We have one of those -- I've got kind of a rule with him where -- obviously it's pretty heavy to carry all the rain gear and stuff, and I always say, if it rains and I don't have it, that's when I'll be pissed.  But yeah, he'll get a word from me this afternoon, and I'm sure he'll carry it tomorrow, rain or shine.   
 Q.  Who caddies for you?  
MICHAEL GLIGIC: It's a friend of mine, Ryan Leaming.  He's been caddying for me off and on for the last --   
 Q.  Where is he from?  
MICHAEL GLIGIC: Oakville.   
 Q.  Did that affect you at all?  
MICHAEL GLIGIC: A little bit.  I was soaking wet and I had to turn my hat backwards to putt, and the water was just pouring off my brim.  I mean, it did affect me, but I don't think it really affected my game.  I still hit some pretty good shots.  It's not like I was hitting bad shots because of it.  It was just a little uncomfortable for a few holes.   
 Q.  How much did it help having friends and family walking alongside you?  
MICHAEL GLIGIC: Yeah, it's pretty cool.  Not too often does everyone get to come out and do this.  I had a bit of a crowd come out to Montreal when I played in the Open, and Hamilton being pretty close, I had a big gallery.  You know, it's pretty fun.  They don't get to do it all the time, so it's a pretty fun moment for everyone.   
 Q.  Last night I guess was a beer and barbecue at your dad's play.  What's tonight?  
MICHAEL GLIGIC: I don't know.  One beer, burger and a sausage, and I don't know what's on the menu tonight.  I've got a lot of friends here, so we might just go out for dinner or something.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT