AEGON CLASSIC BIRMINGHAM
June 17, 2015
Michelle Larcher de Brito
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. LARCHER DE BRITO/A. Ivanovic
  6‑4, 3‑6, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Very well done?
MICHELLE LARCHER DE BRITO:   Thank you.

Q.   Played a good match all through, but a super comeback from a being a break down in the final set.   How did you do that? 
MICHELLE LARCHER DE BRITO:   I'm not sure.   Obviously I had to fight really hard to win those games.   It was very close.   I'm just glad that I pulled through.   I really had to focus.   She was serving really well, and I just somehow managed to squeeze in a game there and break back.

Q.   You both attacked and counterattacked well I thought off the ground and you hit the ball perhaps a bit flatter than she did.   Were those factors in it?
MICHELLE LARCHER DE BRITO:   Yeah.   We were both hitting it pretty hard.   Every once in a while the wind would catch the ball and I was mishit it completely.   It's grass court, so one of the surfaces you can hit it flat and get away with it.
I think that's why I usually do quite well on grass, because I have quite a flat ball.   That's why I probably really enjoy playing on grass a lot.

Q.   Having played some matches on grass court here already, did that help? 
MICHELLE LARCHER DE BRITO:   Oh, yeah, absolutely.   The more you play and practice on the surface, the more you get used to it.   I've been doing pretty well.   I've been playing a lot of matches these past few weeks. 
Obviously every match you play and the more hours you put on to the surface the better you'll get out of it.
I've been getting quite a lot of matches back to back, so I think that's really been helping. 

Q.   What you did you tell yourself to do when she was serving for the match? 
MICHELLE LARCHER DE BRITO:   Stay calm, definitely.   Hold my nerve.   That's one of the things I've been doing really well, is trying to keep it together and not get too upset.
I think that really helped me.   Just, you know, it's one of those things where you just wait for the mistake.   I fortunately got them, and I just tried to hold my nerve and fight for every point. 

Q.   I'm not a tennis expert, but why are you only 135 in the world? 
MICHELLE LARCHER DE BRITO:   I don't know.   It's just such a tough sport, you know, especially with points to defend every year. 
Yeah, I'm doing well now, but it's just always up and down.   Hard to stay level.   You know, I'm working hard and I'm working on it and I'm trying to, you know, obviously improve my ranking.   That's my number one goal. 
I've got quite a lot of points to defend at Wimbledon, so every match I've been winning has been helping me tremendously with defending the points, trying to get points before going into Wimbledon.
So I don't know why I am where I am, but I'm just taking it one match at time, one tournament at a time, and hopefully do better. 

Q.   Do you think you have the potential to be‑‑ have you got a target where you think you could get to? 
MICHELLE LARCHER DE BRITO:   I don't know.   Like I've been ranked in to the 120s, 130s for like five years almost.   So I don't know.   I mean, I have beaten quite a few top players, and I've beaten three top 100 players just to get to the third round here.
So I don't know.   It's just obviously I might have the potential and hopefully I will start doing better and better and stay consistently with the wins.
But who knows?   You know, just got to work, and hopefully I'll have a breakthrough. 

Q.   Just one final question:   I told Ana that I'm a football fan, so I was happy to see World Cup winner Schweinsteiger there.   Are you a football fan?   Were you aware that he was there watching?
MICHELLE LARCHER DE BRITO:   I don't know.   Like tennis consumes my life so much I try like to not pay attention to other sports. 
I do follow the football sometimes, but not too much. 

Q.   I'm not a tennis expert either, but your accent and surname don't marry up. 
MICHELLE LARCHER DE BRITO:   Yeah, that's a long story.   My mom is South African and my dad is Portuguese.   I was born in Portugal but moved to America when I was nine years old. 
I have two older brothers who were born in South Africa, and then we moved to Portugal and I was born there.   I got a scholarship at the Bollettieri Tennis Academy, IMG Academy. 
Yeah, I've been living there since I was nine, so I kind of pick up the American accents; sometimes I have a South African one.   I don't know.   Depends on the day. 

Q.   (No microphone.) 
MICHELLE LARCHER DE BRITO:   Yes, my dad is Portuguese, but he lived most of his life in South Africa.   That's where he met my mom. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT