DAVIS CUP - AUSTRIA Vs. USA
February 6, 2004
Stefan Koubek
Gunter Bresnik
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.   Talk about the first match, how that went as far as being  -- how Jurgen felt, how you felt about the match? 
 
CAPTAIN BRESNIK: Obviously after the match you feel bad about it losing being two sets to Love up, but performance-wise it was okay.  You cannot expect somebody who is ranked 50 spots ahead of someone to beat easily and he also lost the only meeting they had and after really poor beginning, he played a very good first and second set, and unfortunately I don't know any reasons broken everything first service game of the first fourth and fifth set made it too easy.  If he keeps up a little longer in the third set, I think Ginepri is out of the match already and he doesn't even have to worry about the fourth or fifth set.  But it didn't happen.  A lot of credit to Ginepri, first appearance in the Davis Cup, great performance.  
 

Q.   Patrick McEnroe seemed to think that Jurgen got a little bit tired.
 
CAPTAIN BRESNIK: If he got tired, it was effective.  If he looks at his own player he should have seen that Ginepri was outplaying and obviously better player on the court, and unfortunately somehow he couldn't keep up with the level, maybe he couldn't also handle the pressure seeing the chance to get here 1-Love lead which is which would be a big surprise for us.  And so it looked more he collapsed a little mentally.  
 

Q.   You have to go back on court after such an emotional win for them, the crowd is all excited, then you go out and have to play, is that tough?
 
STEFAN KOUBEK:  It's not tough at all.  I mean, I was watching Jurgen's match and I was really getting excited after he won the first two sets.  And I was looking forward to the match and then after losing in five sets, of course it's tough to go out there, but still it's  -- I was trying to have as much fun out there as possible, and I was playing good tennis, and didn't happen for me.  
 

Q.   Is it intimidating facing Roddick's serve?  
 
STEFAN KOUBEK:  Of course, I mean, if a guy serves like him it's not funny, and especially when your close to break him a few times and he always ace  you, it's getting kind of annoying and, I don't know, it's not fun. 
 

Q.   You may be the only person who has actually faced a 150 mile per hour serve, how does it feel?
 
STEFAN KOUBEK:  It was -- I was pleased that I didn't return it because I hit it on the racket and couldn't make it in, so I was actually mad about it.  But I might make the book of records now because I played against him, did something. 
 

Q.   Your doubles team tomorrow, who will it be?
 
CAPTAIN BRESNIK: I don't know yet.  I am going to decide tomorrow morning.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT