DAVIS CUP - AUSTRIA Vs. USA
February 5, 2004
Gunter Bresnik
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.   Have you competed against Robby before?  Have you played against Robby?

JURGEN MELZER: I played him in the finals of Newport this year. 

Q.   Can you just walk us through that?

JURGEN MELZER:  He won in three sets.  It was close two first sets and he won third set pretty easy, but quite different match.  Now we'll see how it goes.

Q.   What was the surface?

JURGEN MELZER: Grass. 

Q.   What kind of things match-up wise does he do well against and do you think you have an advantage against him in terms of your style of play?

JURGEN MELZER:  I think I serve better than him and he returns better than me.  We'll see how it goes and if I serve good, I think I have a chance. 

Q.   You look forward going to being the first out there tomorrow?

JURGEN MELZER:  Well, I think it's easier being first match because you don't have to wait for the other matches so that's the only thing which is an advantage, but you cannot change it anyway and you have to take it as it comes and well, I am glad that I am first match.

Q.   Captain, talk about the conditions, the court surface, the speed, and do your players like enjoy playing indoors?  

COACH BRESNIK:  Playing indoors a lot.  Stefan doesn't mind to play indoors/outdoors.  He used to be a claycourter, but decent success on hard court and the speed of the surface, I think is very, very fair.  It's not too fast.  It's really a nice high bounce so it's the perfect setup for a good match.

Q.   Is this the match-up you are happy about?   You are happy to be able send Jurgen out up first against Robby?  If you could have planned it, would this  --

COACH BRESNIK: No matter how the first match is going to be finished, and all -- he is experienced enough and tough enough to have no pressure no matter if it's 1-Love or love-1 coming into the second match so it's not going to be -- not going to make a big difference tomorrow. 

Q.   What do you mean, Mr.  Koubek, he is going to go down in the second match for sure; is that what you are saying?

COACH BRESNIK:  It doesn't matter, Andy Roddick is not going to be affected by the score of the first match. 

Q.   Because Mr.  Koubek he has had some good experience in his time?

COACH BRESNIK:  He had what?

Q.   He is a very experienced player.  I thought that you were suggesting he was going to have a tough second match. 

COACH BRESNIK:  He's a very experienced player.  He has a lot of experience with Roddick, lately, playing doubles together, so they know each other very well, but it's not going to be a big difference on the outcome. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT