NBA FINALS: CELTIC v LAKERS
June 15, 2010
Pau Gasol
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Boston Celtics  67
  Los Angeles Lakers 89

 Q. When you go into a Game 7 like this, do you want to consider how big the moment is? Do players like to do that? Or do you as the old cliché says, it's just another game?
 PAU GASOL: It's definitely not just another game. But it's a crucial game, obviously, like it was tonight, and luckily we play at home, and we want to carry everything that we did right tonight to it, too. And then I think we'll be in a very good place to win. 

 Q. Do you want to think about all the implications, everything that's at stake? Does that help drive some guys?
 PAU GASOL: You know, whatever helps different individuals, it's okay with me. To me it's just a huge opportunity. It's a game that means that the winner gets a championship, and that's plenty. 

 Q. How important was this for you to come back after getting only 12 points in Game 5?
 PAU GASOL: I think it was good. You know, I'm really happy about the team, the way we played as a team tonight, defensively, the activity, the intensity, just everything was very, very positive and very together. So you know, we're really, really happy with that. I just did my part, I guess. 

 Q. At the end of the second quarter, you guys were outrebounding 30 to 13. How important is it for you guys to win the rebound battle?
 PAU GASOL: It's huge. Pretty much every game that either team has won has been also the winner of the rebounding game and battle. When you outrebound a team like we did tonight, you're giving yourself a huge advantage. 
 So it's really important that we continue to work extremely hard as a group, as a team on the rebounding because it's just something that you need to control, and it gives you an advantage.

 Q. It seemed like in Boston your shot was off a little bit and it seemed like tonight you were attacking the basket a little bit more. Can you talk about that. 
 PAU GASOL: Yeah, a little bit. I think the fourth game it was -- my shot was feeling good. Last game, fifth game, not so much. But you're going to have these kind of better or worse games offensively. But you've just got to make sure you bring the kind of intensity, activity that we brought tonight and then things will go your way for the most part. 

 Q. You were in these situations before many times that one game decides everything. It was world championships, European championships, Olympics. How much does experience help you in Game 7 here that you've been in this situation that you have to win this one game?
 PAU GASOL: Experience is always a huge plus, especially when you face these kinds of games and these kinds of situations. I've been fortunate throughout my career that I've experienced a few, and it puts me in a better place mentally, especially, to be able to face it and be successful. So I hope that we get now some good rest tomorrow and look at the tape again and just come to Game 7 to play as hard as possible to win it. 

 Q. During the second quarter Kobe got his first bit of rest and you guys pushed the lead from 15 to 20. A lot of the plays orchestrated actually by you. Given the way Kobe really didn't get much help in the last game, can you talk about the significance of being able to push that lead with him off the court? 
 PAU GASOL: It's important when any player comes out of a game, I think we have enough on our bench that we can sustain the level of playing that we have been carrying throughout to that point. So yes, it's important that the bench comes in and is ready to step in and make plays and be active. So I think that was the most important thing, that we set the tone so well from the defensive end that everything was more flowing on the offensive end. So we've got to understand how important that is and carry it on to next game. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT