NBA FINALS: CELTIC v LAKERS
June 12, 2010
Pau Gasol
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Andrew just said he's 100 percent sure he's going to play tomorrow. How much does that ease your burden to have him playing alongside you, another big body, et cetera?   
     PAU GASOL: I think he's been a factor, when he's been out there. So obviously it's just a plus for our team. For myself you could say that it also helps me to have him there just because of his presence and his length, his size, just rebounding, defending. Those two things are keys at this point, because they've been the difference in the series. The team, the defense better. The team that rebounds better wins the game. It's that simple.   
     Andrew provides that for us.  
  
  Q. Did you miss his presence, just being out there in Game 4, do you think in the second half?   
     PAU GASOL: Yeah, obviously you're going to miss a player like him that, like I said, provides those things, those -- like I said, they're little things or small things, but they're really important. And if he can also provide some offense and offensive rebounds and finishes and stuff like that like he's been doing, you know, even better.   
  
  Q. How do you match energy? I know you say you have to match energy, but how do you do that?  
     PAU GASOL: Mentally you just have to come in extremely ready to go and just to play through everything for 48 minutes. That's the big key mentally is you just have to be into it fully and just ready to go from the first second, not wait to get hit or not wait to get a couple scores from the opponent. Just ready to go. It's a game, it's a crucial game for both teams. It's a game that would put the winner of the game in an advantageous situation, and we want to be that team.  
  
  Q. Phil said he gave you a book on Barcelona. Did you read it? Didn't you already know about Barcelona?   
     PAU GASOL: It wasn't really about Barcelona, it was more a -- the last one wasn't about Barcelona. A little bit, a few pages occurred in Barcelona, but it was very brief.   
     The one before happened also in Spain mostly, but it was more about bullfights and that tradition, the holiday there. But it wasn't really that meaningful. It was a good book but not that meaningful.  
  
  Q. You didn't want to go out and gore somebody or anything?  
     PAU GASOL: No, not at all.  
  
  Q. Just checking.   
     PAU GASOL: Thank you for checking.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT