NBA FINALS: CELTIC v LAKERS
June 5, 2010
Pau Gasol
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. I'm curious how much Andrew's presence helps you with the Celtics' big guys. And having played them without him two years ago and having him now, what's kind of the difference in the dynamic?   
 PAU GASOL: I think what Andrew is doing throughout this playoffs has been incredible. To be able to play through his injuries and the soreness that he plays with and how effective he's been for us I think is -- you've got to really take your hat off in front of him because he's been a huge factor. Obviously he did a great job in Game 1, and we look forward for next games, also, that he's a positive factor for us because he's just effective. He's playing aggressive, playing big and doing a lot of great things for us. Definitely encourage him to keep it up.   
  
  Q. How much better is this Celtics team than the one you played in the regular season, particularly the one where you guys had Kobe, the game-winning shot in Boston, and there was kind of talk about how they were fading then. Can you compare then to now?  
 PAU GASOL: I think they've just stepped it up throughout the playoffs. They reached a very, very high level. Played together. They know how to be successful at this time of the year, and they got healthier, also. So they're just clicking now. They're clicking and playing with a lot of confidence. They're playing with desire of pursuing the championship. And so far they've played at a high level. They're just a better, stronger team probably than -- just compare, also, the way we were during the regular season. We weren't that strong as what we're playing now. So you prepare also that way.   
  
  Q. Were you surprised that your comments about Kevin Garnett losing explosiveness were interpreted as being derogatory?   
 PAU GASOL: To an extent. To an extent. I understand media try to create situations for whatever reason, create attraction. But again, sometimes I extend my answers too long. Maybe I shouldn't do that. I should be shorter with my answers and don't give away just anything so it can't be manipulated that way and used.   
 But it is what it is. It's The Finals. It's going to be a little bit of chaos. We've just got to focus on doing whatever it takes to win Game 2. That's my main focus.  
  
  Q. Just as a follow up: I'm assuming you didn't intend it that way?  
 PAU GASOL: Absolutely not. Absolutely not. The way it was played and put down, it was pretty pathetic. But I'll make no more comments on that because it's not worth it.   
  
  Q. In what way have you gotten better to get to this point?  
 PAU GASOL: I guess both teams -- I'm going to speak for my team because that's what I know more. We have just stepped it up defensively. We have just picked it up really from the defensive end, activity-wise, intensity-wise. We just took it up to another level. I think that's the main thing that we've done, and that's really brought us together, also. On the other end, and it made us really get here and be where we're at and have the chance that we have.   
  
  Q. (Off microphone).   
 PAU GASOL: I guess once you get to the playoffs, a sense of urgency and the reality, it really hits you quick in understanding that you can't really mess around or overlook a game. You just can't afford that. So it really makes you tune in and focus on what you're playing for, and we're a good team. We have the weapons. We had them all along, but they really came together at the right time.   
  
  Q. There were a lot of foul calls in the first half of Game 1, and I was wondering with Kendrick's situations knowing if he gets another tech he could be suspended, did he seem tentative at all in the post, especially when the refs seem to set the tone that they were going to call it tight in the first half?  
 PAU GASOL: I'm not sure how he felt, and I really didn't pay attention how much or how he looked when he was defending. I think he's a player that plays hard and tries to do his job on the floor just like any other guy out there. But obviously I'm sure he's aware of his situation and concerned.   
  
  Q. Do you expect their bigs, with how they played in the first game, do you expect them to come out and be more aggressive in the next game?  
 PAU GASOL: I expect the whole team to be more aggressive in Game 2. It's just the reality of the game. The importance of the game, the meaning of the game, both teams are going to have to be more aggressive and ready for whatever. You know, it's a crucial game to win for either team.   
  
  Q. In '08 you guys employed almost a five-on-three strategy defensively with Kobe and Lamar kind of roving wherever they were needed. Seems like this Game 1 stay-at-home strategy, take your chances one-on-one, and for the most part it worked. Is that a reflection of the fact that you guys are more confident that you can handle -- for instance, you can handle KG one-on-one versus in '08 you guys would double him almost the second he touched the ball?   
 PAU GASOL: Right. I don't know, we just try to read the game and see if somebody is hurting us we will adjust, just like I'm sure they will adjust in Game 2 throughout the game, probably try to contain more the dribble penetration of our guards because we got to the lane, I guess, probably too often for what they would like. So we adjust, too. If Paul is really hurting us, we're going to have to be more aggressive and send somebody else, but Ron has been doing a good job so far.   
 Every game is a battle, every game is different, and you have to react while you're playing the game.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT