NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v LAKERS
May 26, 2010
Pau Gasol
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Why are the Lakers having so much trouble from a defensive standpoint? Is it effort or something that is mental? 
 PAU GASOL: No, they just play well offensively. They challenge you in different ways. They make your defense move and adjust. They're quick, a quick group. So they present a lot of challenges that you have to adjust to and be really active with.

 Q. Something that has you still puzzled today? 
 PAU GASOL: No, I mean, most of the stuff is stuff that we know about. It's not too complicated. It's just a matter of personnel and knowing what's going on out there at all times, just being alert for 48 minutes which is the complicated part, I guess. 

 Q. Talk about the way you guys played defensively the first two games?
 PAU GASOL: Well, I think they play a lot better at home than us. And our activity might have been better at home than it was on the road. But I think we still gave ourselves a pretty good chance for the most part of the game in both games. 
 They just made runs at key points during the games. And they were able to get away from us on the last few minutes of the game, you know, and that's why they won two games. 

 Q. How is the sense of urgency on this team compared to maybe the Oklahoma game?
 PAU GASOL: The same. It's a Game 5. The Series is tight, and it's a must-win for us, so sense of urgency is total at this point.

 Q. You were very vocal in the first round. You need to play with more energy. Do you feel the need to say that or is there the absence of that this time around? 
 PAU GASOL: I don't think there is the absence of what it was in the first round. I think we're at a different level as we were in that first round against Oklahoma. 
 I think this time we just are against a tougher opponent also. They're playing really well. You can see the whole team just having fun and playing together and just making plays. You know, they've been tough. So now it's our turn to hit back and make sure we get that lead in the Series.

 Q. How about the confidence they've felt in the last couple of games? They're a different team than when they started. At least they have confidence against you guys?
 PAU GASOL: Right. They carried some confidence from the San Antonio Series. Obviously, we did a good job of establishing ourselves in the first two games. The last two they played a lot better. The home court is important. So let's see if we can make it up tomorrow for us. We're ready to play. We can go back at them full court.

 Q. Why does home court make the difference. It's still the same length?
 PAU GASOL: Probably the energy, being familiar with your home court. Circumstances change a little bit also that you can't control. So you can say everything, but it is what it is. It's always a little tougher on the road, and it takes a different mindset to go on the road and to be able to play as hard as you have to play for 48 minutes.

 Q. Are you going to try to get the ball down low more now? 
 PAU GASOL: Well, like I said, it's a little more different against the zone, but we've got to find ways to do so. Because we've got to continue to attack the paint, and that's how we are successful and we've been successful. 
 So that's something that we need to continue to do, just continue to pound them in different ways. If it's not directly, it's just by throwing the ball in the post, different ways of working the ball, and just pounding the glass. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT