NBA FINALS: MAGIC v LAKERS
June 9, 2009
Pau Gasol
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Los Angeles Lakers - 104
  Orlando Magic - 108 
   
  Q. Can you give us your assessment of your team's offensive performance as well as your defensive performance tonight?   
 PAU GASOL: Overall it was a pretty solid performance from our end. We played hard, we competed, we fought throughout the whole game. We started out well and hold up until that first push that they were trying to, I guess, give us at the beginning of the game. But overall I think we played well.   
 Free throws, we could have done better, but every other aspect of the game, I don't think it's disappointing. It's more they shot the ball extremely well. They played a very good game. But I'm happy about the effort that we put out there and that we competed.   
  
  Q. A lot of the guys in the locker room were saying that you guys lost an opportunity to steal this game. Phil said he thought you controlled the tempo of the game. Which side are you coming down on?  
 PAU GASOL: I think for the most part we controlled the tempo of the game pretty good. They didn't get any fast breaks or too many easy looks. They tried to push the tempo, obviously, a lot more. But I think we did okay as far as controlling it. Obviously it was a close game. It's a game that we would have loved to win. But it kind of went the other way. I think we've just got to get ready tomorrow, make the adjustments that are necessary for Game 4, and definitely go after it in Game 4 and try to make it our game.   
  
  Q. What was different about Dwight Howard tonight in your opinion?   
 PAU GASOL: Well, obviously he played with a little more energy, and he's allowed to do physically a couple more things here at home. Basically that's what it was. He shot the ball pretty well from the field, the looks that he had. He didn't have that many looks I don't think. We were doing a good job controlling him pretty well. But obviously he sets a lot of screens, rolls on the lane, goes to the boards really hard and does a good job of that, and we tried to keep up with that and do a good job, also.   
 I think he had a good game. That's about it, nothing exceptional.   
  
  Q. Do you think he was able to get more catches down under the basket tonight than he was in the past? And how much tougher is he to defend when he does catch it that low?   
 PAU GASOL: Maybe he got a couple more touches in the paint than he did in the prior games, but it wasn't something too substantial I don't think. He was a little more aggressive, and as I said, he rolled harder to the lane and he's tough to guard because he's get to get hard, it's hard to hold him up. But even with all that, I think we did a pretty good job of holding our ground and trying to be there and make it tough for him.   
 So we've got to continue to do that in Game 4 because it's going to continue to happen.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT