NBA FINALS: MAGIC v LAKERS
June 6, 2009
Pau Gasol
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Obviously the team shut down Dwight in Game 1. Is there still a fear of Orlando's three-point shooters, though, despite their underwhelming performance in Game 1?  
 PAU GASOL: There's always an awareness, awareness of the talent that they got, the weapons that they got out there, awareness that they're probably not going to shoot 30 percent in Game 2, and we're just going to have to work even harder to contain them and beat them again.   
  
  Q. What differences did you see in Kobe when he came back from the Olympics just in terms of his personality or his drive and intensity?   
 PAU GASOL: Well, he's had a very good season. I think last year he also had a very good year and obviously an MVP year. But I think this year we were all determined, him first, to get here and to win the ring, to win the championship.   
 That's been our mentality and our mindset all year long since day one, since training camp.  
  
  Q. Is it tough for you guys to match that intensity that he brings?  
 PAU GASOL: No, I think different players bring it different ways. Obviously he's got a lot of responsibility and protaganism out there because of the skill set that he's got. But other players can bring the same intensity, it just doesn't show as much. But it gets us really all going when he has this kind of focus and this kind of aggressiveness and he's in that mode.   
  
  Q. You've almost day-to-day now been with Kobe for more than a year now. How is he different as a person maybe than what you thought before you came to the Lakers?   
 PAU GASOL: I don't know, I didn't really have a huge concept. I don't usually prejudge people without knowing them. I've been very happily impressed with his personality. I know him more on the floor because we spend a lot more time on the floor than off the floor. Obviously he's got a lot of commitments off the floor.   
 But he's a guy that loves to win, loves to compete, and basketball is his life and his passion, and that's what drives everything else. He's got so much energy. That's something that has impressed me, he has so much energy. I don't know he sleeps, but it just feels like he's got so much in him. It's pretty impressive. Sometimes I'm jealous at times of that, because I have to get my rest, be real low key, and he's got so much power in him and determination. It's fun to watch.   
  
  Q. As far as other players around the league go, though, before you got here was there any guys you talk to now, especially like maybe any of the guys on the national team or anything, do they ever say like this guy, is he a big a jerk as he seems like sometimes? You know, Kobe comes off as being pretty driven at one thing. Do you ever have people ask you about that?  
 PAU GASOL: Well, I think he's matured. He's matured a lot these past couple years, as far as understanding what it takes to win and the concept more of team basketball. Obviously we don't forget how great of a player he is and how much damage he can do individually, but he understands that to win a championship and to win the Olympics, for example, he was a team player. He was a player, more of a defensive stopper, and he was definitely the finisher of the team, the clutch player in the fourth quarters. But he became a team player. And he delegated a lot of protaganism to D Wade and LeBron and Carmelo and stuff like that, and they understood that, and they won the gold medal like that.  
 I think here it's not as much, but he also just as well took coverages and defenses, how they anticipated in Game 2, they're going to double-team him a lot and other players are going to have to step up and get more involved and deliver.   
  
  Q. What kind of unique difficulties or challenges does Rashard Lewis present to you when you're developing a game plan to guard him defensively?  
 PAU GASOL: It's a player you have to find on the three-point line a lot and you have to close up to him because he's got such a high release on his shot. You really have to be aware of him at all times, find him in transition, find him in the corners. He's a pick-and-pop player. When you're close up to him, he's got a very good drive, mostly right. So he's just a player that is dangerous to guard. You have to be really on top of him. You just can't forget about him, otherwise he's going to kill you.   
  
  Q. You're a guy who can go either way with either hand, you have so many moves around the basket. Is it something for Dwight Howard it's hard to have that much because he's so used to just bullying his way to the basket whereas you're the type of player who has to work on those kind of things?  
 PAU GASOL: Well, Dwight has improved in his most of his game from last year, definitely from years prior to that, and he's become more of a post threat. But obviously uses a lot of his athleticism and his force and his strength. I think he still needs to develop a little more into a better post player because that's going to help him. That's just going to help him be more unstoppable, develop a little bit more of a shot, face-up shot, and turnaround jumpers will help him, too. I just think it's a weapon that you can use for double teams. When you have a double-team and you have a turnaround jumper, turning baseline, it's really important, especially in clutch situations when your team counts on you to deliver and finish and probably teams that know your strengths are not going to allow you to go in the heart of the lane.   
 So we're trying to do that, and we've been effective in Game 1, and we look forward to continuing to be effective in upcoming games.   
  
  Q. So have you seen that in your looking at tape and such, if you keep him away from the basket he can't hurt you that much?   
 PAU GASOL: Obviously he's the guy with the most dunks in the league, in the playoffs. He's a great finisher in the lane. Most of his points come in the paint and the free-throw line, so if you keep him out of the paint you limit him to a much lower percentage.  
  
  Q. Bill Russell was at the last game and the MVP trophy is now named after him. Coming from Spain do you know much about his story or are you familiar with him?  
 PAU GASOL: Not much.   
  
  Q. Have you talked to Rubio much? And if so, what advice have you given him or what advice would you give him?  
 PAU GASOL: Well, I haven't talked to him during this season. I talked to him in the summer because we played together, and I talked to him then. I haven't talked to him during the year. I don't know exactly what's going on in his mind. I think he's coming over from what I've read. He's coming over to interview with a couple teams and see where they're at and stuff like that.   
 I wish him luck. I wish that he picks the right option and the right team picks him. And if he decides to come over, I wish him luck, and then of course I'll try to advise him and help him out in any way I can. He's extremely mature for a 19-year-old, but he's still a 19 years old.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT