NBA FINALS: MAGIC v LAKERS
June 5, 2009
Pau Gasol
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Kobe's face, his teeth, what do you call that?
 PAU GASOL: Just in game mode, just ready to play. He was really aggressive, and when he's in that kind of mode, he's a very dangerous player.

 Q. The face he makes, though. 
 PAU GASOL: The face just shows you his emotion and his focus. That's basically the mode he was in, the mode he was in last night, and I think it's the mood he's going to stay in for the whole Finals.

 Q. Obviously in the NBA there's games that are blowouts. It's something you guys realize. Some people might write this thing off and say it's over. It's not, though. 
 PAU GASOL: No, absolutely not. It just started. It's just one game. The home team won. That's it. That should happen most of the time. That's what happened last night, and now Game 2, different story, same mindset for us. 
 Obviously we want to win that game, too. If we win that game, the series is still going, still alive, and we'll go back to Orlando. Simple as that.

 Q. You're going to expect them to come out and shoot a lot better than they did last night I would imagine, right?
 PAU GASOL: Yeah, it's a great shooting team. They shot 30 percent last night, and obviously we weren't expecting them to shoot such a low percentage. So we're going to have to also get better as a team and make adjustments.

 Q. You guys did a pretty good job on Dwight Howard in Game 1. What's the key to containing him the way you guys did?
 PAU GASOL: A lot of work. Really don't allow him to get positions in the lane, the pick-and-rolls, the fast breaks, all the dunk-ins, you really have to put a body on him and move your feet around him, don't always allow him to get contact but create contact with you because then obviously he's got an advantage there. So we did good work. I think Andrew kept him in front of him very good for the most part of the game. I worked around him pretty well and got him off balance a couple times. It's a lot of work. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT