NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: NUGGETS v LAKERS
May 28, 2009
Pau Gasol
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Previously tied, and also the fourth quarter you guys turned it on. What was the difference?
 PAU GASOL: The mentality -- we ended the fourth quarter really well after being down 7. I think we really changed the momentum there a couple plays, a couple stops. 
 Really attacking and being effective. Executing. Then we moved the ball in the fourth quarter. We really moved the ball well. We make it -- we swung the ball and everybody was getting good looks. 
 Because they had a conscious effort of taking the ball away from Kobe and taking away my post-ups. The weak side is actually going to be open and guys are going to get wide open shots, just gotta knock them down.

 Q. Is that cliche that the hardest game to win the series is the closeout game; not only that you have to do that on the road? Do you agree with that statement and how does that fly here and what are you going to do?
 PAU GASOL: The tougher part is it's going to be at their place, and obviously they're a great part of the team. And there's going to be a hell of a fight. Just going to take a great effort on our part and great toughness to do what it takes to win this game. 
 And we're going to go forward. Obviously we want to close it out as soon as we can.

 Q. After the previous game, players were complaining about how the other Lakers were treating the post. Do you think that was rectified in the last game and how so and how did that help your game?
 PAU GASOL: Well, obviously they've been aggressive. They know the danger of me getting the ball in the post and being effective all series long. 
 So yesterday was the first game they really came and double teamed right away when I got the ball in there. The few times I got it in there I was able to get it. 
 So either way, last night was a game you just have to work really hard overall to get a win. It was whichever way it was going to happen, it did happen for us, and I was happy about it.

 Q. Any more spent today after playing 45 minutes than you would be playing 35?
 PAU GASOL: More what? 

 Q. Spent? Tired? 
 PAU GASOL: It's been a tough post-season having to play a lot of minutes. And we haven't really been able to catch a break since the first round. So it's been really demanding. But at this point in time you can't think about fatigue or being spent or anything. Just gotta take everything and get closer to your goal.

 Q. You have that reminder of Houston Game 6. Do you use that as you prepare and look forward to tomorrow?
 PAU GASOL: We said the same thing about Game 4. Beat by 20. So they're different teams and different situations. Obviously it's the same game, the same opportunity to get a win and be able to close them out. But we know how hard it is. But we can do it. Hopefully it will help. But we'll make it happen.

 Q. What would it say about this team if you guys are able to go there, a very difficult place, very good team, and get that closeout?
 PAU GASOL: What would it take? 

 Q. What would it say about this team?
 PAU GASOL: It would say a lot. It would say that we're one of the best road teams in the league; that we have been in the regular season, but that we also have to be in the post-season, right now where it matters. And it will be a great satisfaction to be able to win that Game 6. And it would show a lot, it will give us a lot of confidence going into the Finals, of course.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT