NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: NUGGETS v LAKERS
May 24, 2009
Pau Gasol
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Did you get enough walking last night?  
 PAU GASOL: Oh, yeah.   
  
  Q. A lot of running, no walking.   
 PAU GASOL: We worked really hard. We got a nice reward for it.  
  
  Q. You must be completely exhausted now?  
 PAU GASOL: Tired. Playoff basketball. Tomorrow there's another one.  
  
  Q. Was last night a gut check performance for you?  
 PAU GASOL: Definitely performance on our part overall. Very good effort. Way to compete on the road. Showed some toughness. So I'm definitely proud of it.  
  
  Q. How do you guys recover quickly after a game like last night? Seemed like everyone was tired after a game like that.   
 PAU GASOL: It's easier to recover when you win than if you would have lost. So you gotta keep the mindset aggressive and thinking that when we win tomorrow we're going to have a huge advantage in the series and hopefully we'll be able to take it.  
  
  Q. Do you take anything out of your series when you were up 2-1 to keep the throttle down, so to speak?  
 PAU GASOL: We talked about that in the locker room. We don't want to be too relaxed or confident for tomorrow's game. We don't expect them to lower the bar tomorrow. It's going to be even tougher than it was yesterday. And it's a must-win for them. Otherwise they have low chance to beat us in the series.  
  
  Q. I thought you guys fought Carmelo tough in the second half. That has to be part of the ingredients, right?   
 PAU GASOL: Absolutely. And being physical with them and staring on them and don't give them any easy looks and play Chauncey tough and then play everybody tough. It's just the way it's going to be.  
  
  Q. Late in the fourth quarter last night Derek called everybody together. And I'd like you to talk about what he said to you, because he was talking about how these were one of those moments you couldn't let get away?  
 PAU GASOL: It was one of those moments we all had to dig in, dig in deep. And there was, I don't know how many minutes was left, but it was a moment of the game that we really had to make a stand and get it together.   
 We were doing well until that point, but it was time to step it up and bring it up a notch and take the game.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT