NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: NUGGETS v LAKERS
May 20, 2009
Pau Gasol
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. It looked very good last night. 
 PAU GASOL: Yeah, if you want to continue (indiscernible).

 Q. Are you okay with that? Are you having fun with that?
 PAU GASOL: I'm having a lot of fun.

 Q. Knocking bodies around?
 PAU GASOL: I look forward to continue to be that way and even more. So I'm doing it now. I guess so, then. We'll start with him. So let's go. Finish it up.

 Q. Did you steal one at home last night, so to speak?
 PAU GASOL: No, we earned it. We deserved it. I don't think we stole anything. We worked hard and we played hard. We didn't play our best game. They played a pretty good game and we deserved it. 
 So that was -- I don't think there was no stealing, no stealing there.

 Q. It was the little things that really make the big difference?
 PAU GASOL: Absolutely. It was the little things. It was a team effort. Teamwork. Defensively I think we did well down the stretch, getting the stops and doing the little things, like you say, and then finishing that off, executing and getting to the line and making free throws. Especially Kobe.

 Q. Who has to make the bigger adjustments now? 
 PAU GASOL: I don't know. We're going to have to make some, obviously. Obviously there were some mistakes, some things that we can do a lot better. I guess they'll do the same. I don't know.

 Q. What do you mean do better?
 PAU GASOL: We got to control better Carmelo and get him off his bumper zones, make him (indiscernible) off for shots. And once we help, we've got come -- the weak side's got to be a little more active because Martin and Hilario, we got a lot of good looks and open layups and dunks off our help and off of penetration. 
 So we've got to do a better job of cutting those down as much as we can.

 Q. Is a lot of that just not having had time to prepare, or was it --
 PAU GASOL: Some. Some was that. Some was them doing the right thing and playing well. It was the good team they are. So a little bit of both.

 Q. Is there anything you saw when that play was about (indiscernible) 30 seconds, that one that cut the rim (indiscernible) you came up and blocked the shot, any adjustments you made to be able to see that?
 PAU GASOL: I think we gotta make sure we're reactive and we're talking and we see things before they happen and a little more anticipate ourselves to those things, because they're baiting, from the wings they're baiting us, try to find those cutters, slashers from the weak side. 
 And we've got to be active, get active getting into a lane and get in front of those guys.

 Q. It seems like you're almost anxious to get back on the floor for Game 2?
 PAU GASOL: Totally. Had fun yesterday and it was a tough game. It wasn't easy at all. 
 But I'm looking forward to playing again. It's fun. They're a very good team and it's a big challenge for us and I think this is what we need. 

 Q. What did you do during practice today?
 PAU GASOL: We made adjustments, we ran through some things we needed to run through and we did a good job getting ourselves ready for tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT