NBA FINALS: LAKERS v CELTICS
June 8, 2008
Pau Gasol
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. It seems like for the second time in a row your team is having problems to go for you in the second half, like you are not being used so much in the second half of the game. What is your opinion about that and why do you think that happens? 
 PAU GASOL: Well, sometimes I just can't control where the ball goes. All I do is try to play hard, and when I get the ball, try to be aggressive and help my team. You know, in the second half things didn't go that well, especially in the third quarter, and like I said, I don't make the calls. 

 Q. I'm sure you guys know what to expect from Kevin Garnett and even a Kendrick Perkins but when Leon Powe comes in and does some stuff, did that kind of catch you guys a little bit off guard?
 PAU GASOL: Well, I guess you could say that. I guess he definitely stepped up, and they did a good job -- you always try to rotate off the guy that is less dangerous by stats and by career and everything, right, so we left him open a few times. Rondo got in the lane too many times and they found him pretty well. Powe really played hard, took advantage of the opportunities he had down there and converted pretty well. So obviously he did good. He runs the floor, goes to the boards, does all the little things, and that was enough for him to have a 21-point game in an NBA Final and make an impact on the game. So it definitely helped their team and didn't help us. 

 Q. Forgive the term, but you guys seemed to play very soft defensively tonight. Guys seemed to get a lot of free rides through there. Why was that? Were you guys soft, and is there a way to change that?
 PAU GASOL: I think we were softer in Game 1. Tonight I think we were pretty sharp at times, then we had a lot of breakdowns, guys getting in the lane, especially Rondo. We don't seem to get him under control, and then he creates. He creates, he's a good passer, and they've got guys who can knock down shots and make plays. 
 But I don't think -- I think on the boards we did a much better job. It was just a matter of turnovers in the first half, and then they made their run. They made a big run in the third. We didn't start the way we were supposed to and wanted to, and they kind of got away from us. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT