NBA FINALS: LAKERS v CELTICS
June 4, 2008
Pau Gasol
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What have the days off been like?   
 PAU GASOL: Obviously the days off gives you a chance to chill out, recover, relax a little bit after a tough series because the playoffs are very demanding, high level of competition, and then also gives you a chance to prepare for your next opponent. Obviously it's hard to prepare against the Celtics team because we know how good they are. But we come in with a lot of confidence. They are, too, but we always look at ourselves and what we can do, and I think we've got a lot of good things on our team to be able to be successful in this series, too.   
  
  Q. Does it help your team having Kobe and Derek Fisher with so much Finals experience?  
 PAU GASOL: Definitely having players that have been in this situation and have been successful in this situation, I think that gives us an advantage. I know the Celtics have Posey that has won a championship, and not all the players have played in the NBA Finals. Although they are more experienced as far as age, you know, we have our pluses and we have our minuses. When it comes down to it, as a team we are going to come out more aggressive and with more intensity and want it more.   
  
  Q. You mentioned James Posey, do you have a relationship with him?  
 PAU GASOL: We have a good relationship. We played together two years in Memphis. He made a huge difference on our team. The first day he got there when he signed, he just made a big difference. He helped us in our small forward position and provided us with defense and hard work, and he's a player that does all the little things. He gave us that, and we were able to make the playoffs and we had a great run. That year we were able to turn around from 20-something to I think we got 50 that year. So obviously he was a big part of that success, and I respect him a lot. He's a great competitor. He plays the small forward and the power forward position, and guards bigger guys and is not afraid to do that. He's a great piece to have on your team to be able to get to this level and be successful at it, just like he was in Miami, and he's doing the same thing here.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT