NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 18, 2011
Pau Gasol
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PAU GASOL: We have to worry about what's going on on our team and what can we do to get to our best level possible so we get to the playoffs with the best chance of winning. 
 I'm not exactly sure why we lose certain games, but we have to make sure we find that focus and that discipline playing and play to our level of talent. 

 Q. Do you think you guys are waiting to turn a switch on?
 PAU GASOL: It's happened before. Even during the season that we had runs that we have been struggling in, we have had runs that we turned it on and we are the team that everybody expected us to be or we expect ourselves to be. 
 So I hope during the last 30 games, we get to the level that we need in order to be successful. 
 It's great being one of the All-Stars. It's a gift and reward for doing well and being considered one of the best. 

 Q. I have to ask for the fans, do you ever get to eat a slice of pizza or some French fries, anything like that?
 PAU GASOL: Yes, of course. I have no problem with my diet. I can eat pretty much everything. I try to eat healthy. I try not to eat french fries or pizza, but once in awhile, it doesn't hurt. 

 Q. Is there someone this weekend that you wish would have been there?
 PAU GASOL: Well, talking to Lamar, he's had a very good season, too, and he's been part of the All-Stars. It's hard, Aldrich for example is playing very well with Portland and putting up big numbers. There are other players who got consideration and could have been part of the team but it always happens that way. 

 Q. Wonder what you guys are thinking, and people are talking about the trade deadline. 
 PAU GASOL: Well, obviously we started the trip, we were 4-0, everybody was talking really well and was excited and we are back on track and back on business. All of the sudden we lose the last three games of the trip and people are talking about a low point. 
 So it has been like a lot of hot and cold this year, a lot of contrasts and looking for a level of consistency. I feel that we can do that. 
 I don't know about trades and I don't know what's going to happen. I don't have any control over that. I think that we can do it with the people that we have on our team and the weapons that we have on our team, we'll be perfectly fine. Things are just not clicking at this particular time. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT