NBA FINALS: CELTIC v LAKERS
June 16, 2010
Pau Gasol
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Can you describe Game 7 of the NBA Finals in one word?   
 PAU GASOL: Well, you play for everything. It's a game, there's no other chance. It's a game that you want to give everything you have, everything you have left in your body after a long run. It's a game that you want to win, and it takes you to the championship.   
 I don't know, it's hard to describe in one word, really.   
  
  Q. Would you mind addressing the circumstances just in general terms of playing for your country in world competition and the World Games and the Olympics and playing in this competition here, similarities, differences, whatever, how it strikes you personally?  
 PAU GASOL: Well, it is different just because of how the competition is structured. When I played with my national teams, with my national team in different competitions, we prepare for a month and a half to play a two-week tournament, and every game -- you play the first part of the tournament, which is a group, puts you in a position to play for quarterfinals, semifinals and the finals which are games that you must win in order to advance and get closer to your goal.   
 But NBA season, NBA playoffs, you've got to go through the season and make sure you get a good record so you can secure as much home-court advantage as possible, and then you go through the grinding of the playoffs, which are extremely demanding and extremely tough, and then until you get to this point, which you just -- I mean, it's really hard. Best out of seven game series is tough, and especially when you get to the last very end.   
 But still, you're playing for everything. It's a huge chance to accomplish something magnificent, I think, and I enjoy either competition. I enjoy both competitions because they put you at the highest level in your profession.  
  
  Q. What about emotionally for you?  
 PAU GASOL: Emotionally, to me, I don't know, I take great pride in accomplishing great things. You know, a gold medal in the Olympics, a gold medal in the World Championships is very, very special. But it's hard to compare, it's hard to put one above the other when you talk about an NBA Championship. It's just so hard to win at this level, it really is. And I feel very fortunate that I had a chance to fight for different championships and win different ones, too.   
 Tomorrow is just another great opportunity to continue to accomplishing great things, and that's why I want to give my best, as I always have at this point. At this point in my career, I think I have a good maturity level and wisdom to approach this the right way.  
  
  Q. Speaking of Spain's national teams, how do you feel about the loss this morning?  
 PAU GASOL: Yeah, tough loss today. Not the way that we expected our team to start a championship, of course, and it puts them in a position where they have to win probably two games they have left against Honduras and Chile. I woke up, I couldn't sleep anymore, it's 8:30, turned the game on, and next thing I know we were down 1-0 and struggling and scrambling to score a goal.   
 It happens. Soccer is an interesting sport, and it's unfortunate that we started that way, but still got a long ways to go.   
  
  Q. These Finals are very demanding, physically, mentally, it's really draining. I was just wondering if you feel the need to do little things before Game 7 to release the pressure a little bit, and what kind of things except for watching soccer games?  
 PAU GASOL: No, I try to relax, just keep my mind a little bit away from it, just enjoy the time, the moment that I'm experiencing as far as just wanting to do my best. And for that I have to make sure I take my mind away. I read, maybe I go for a little walk and try to not have much interaction with people because everybody is so excited at this point in time, you still want to keep your mind 100 percent into it. We are understanding how hard it's going to be, tomorrow's game, and how physical and demanding it will continue to be. It's something that I try to do just for me to be ready tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Some people talk about games like this and say you want to treat it like any other game, but it is sort of by definition different than anything else. How do you acknowledge the difference and then deal with it, or what's the best way for you?  
 PAU GASOL: It's a game you just want to win and do whatever it takes to win. That's how I approach it and try to think about how bad and how much it would hurt if we don't come out as winners. I keep that in mind, that thought in my mind sometimes, just to understand that I have to do everything possible out there in order to help my team in any way I can.  
 So it's a game that you want to just leave everything you have out there and compete as hard as you ever competed. So that's the way I face it.   
  
  Q. You and Kobe have the responsibility on this team to kind of be the stars night in and night out, but the bench last night gave you added production, but it's almost like an added bonus. How much responsibility is there in Game 7 to give the same type of effort and production?  
 PAU GASOL: Bench production is always a little bit underrated. When the bench is clicking and they're making plays and they're stepping up defensively and offensively, it makes a big difference. It makes -- Boston's bench pretty much won game -- was it 5, I think, or 4, Game 4. And they've been really solid throughout these playoffs and this series. They always give them a good lift. And our bench when they play, the way they played last night, it's just a big difference in the game, and we definitely notice it.  
  
  Q. But when they don't reach their potential, does that carry weight with them? Do they expect what they did last night out of themselves every night?  
 PAU GASOL: Yeah, probably. You've got to expect to try to fight or work for the best of yourself every night. Some nights it's not going to work out that way. But you've just got to make sure you stay with it, and if shots ain't falling, you just do little things out there, make sure your man doesn't become a factor during the game or things like that, get loose balls, little things. It's not going to always work out perfectly for you, but you've just got to make sure you find a way to contribute that night.   
  
  Q. Are you guys assuming that Andrew will do something tomorrow night, he'll be out there one way or another? And if he's not or if he's severely limited, how is that going to change things for you personally?  
 PAU GASOL: Well, I think Andrew is going to try to play, as he has tried to play every single game. You know, it's pretty remarkable, I think, what he's been able to do for us. It's been a factor, and he is a factor every time he's out there, even though he might be limited. So I'm not assuming, but I'm counting on Andrew just giving his best. Whatever he's got, he's going to leave out there just like the rest of us.   
 If he can't play as much as he could, that just means that probably more minutes for Lamar, maybe Josh gets some minutes, too, and myself. You've just got to be ready for everything and anything, and no matter who's out there, you've just got to play as hard as you can possibly play. That's how you win these kind of games, I think.   
  
  Q. In a Game 7 what does it mean to have Kobe Bryant on your side?   
 PAU GASOL: I mean, having Kobe on our side is huge. You know, he's the best player, I think, out there personally, and his determination, his desire of winning, and his tremendous level of skill and talent gives you a huge plus. I think he's going to be ready no matter what, and he wants to win this as much as anybody. So I think he'll do his part.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT