MLB WORLD SERIES: ROCKIES v RED SOX
October 28, 2007
Mike Lowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Congratulations.  How does it feel, you've been through this before, but to do it with these guys, with all they went through this year.  What's it feel like now to win this second ring and be the MVP?   
 MIKE LOWELL:  You know, I'm on cloud nine.  It's unbelievable.  I think in '03 no one expected us to do anything so we were kind of beating the odds each time.  But I think it's a little different when from the onset a lot of people are expecting you to win a World Championship, and if you don't it's a disappointing year.  For us to come through and do what we thought we were capable of doing is unbelievable.  We've got a lot of people to give credit to.   
  
  Q.  As well as you guys have played in the spotlight and with what's all on you guys, what does Terry bring to this?  How big a part of it is he?  What's on him?  I mean, you guys see what he does for this team every day?   
 MIKE LOWELL:  He's a huge part of this team.  I know he doesn't hit or pitch or do any of those things anymore.  But I think he provides an atmosphere for our clubhouse and for our guys to be able to use our talents to the best of our abilities.  That's not easy to do in the market we're in.  A lot of things are being scrutinized, a lot of things are being second-guessed, and he sticks with his guys all the time.  That's a very comforting feeling as a player, and you want to win for him.   
  
  Q.  You talk about the toughness of playing in that market.  Late in the season when the Yankees were getting close, Terry didn't panic, he got people ready for the postseason.  How much did that have to do with what you guys did and the way you played in the postseason?   
 MIKE LOWELL:  I think it had something to do with it, definitely.  But I think the most important thing during that time was our manager didn't panic, the players didn't panic, the coaches didn't panic.  We knew if we just kept playing the baseball that we know we can play, we'll be all right.  And it proved to be true all the way throughout the end of September and to each round of the playoffs and the World Series.   
  
  Q.  Do you want to comment on the job Jon Lester did tonight?   
 MIKE LOWELL:  I'm ecstatic for him.  I don't think too many people expected him to be in that situation, and against a very good hitting team in a tough park to pitch in.  He did an excellent job.  I know we all know the story of what he's had to overcome.  And personally, I feel that we have a little bit of a link because of what both of us have gone through.  I'm just so happy for him.  He's got a bright future, and not only that, he's a great person.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about the team's offense?  We've heard so much about the pitching and Schilling and Beckett and Matsuzaka, but you guys just put together the greatest run differential ever in a four-game series.  You won by 19 runs.  That's new.   
 MIKE LOWELL:  I think we definitely have the ability to put together a lot of consecutive professional at-bats.  I think even when we're not scoring runs in those first three, four, five innings sometimes, we work the count, we're patient, we're selective, and we can get to the bullpen before maybe most our teams do.  But you can be selective but you can have talent.  You can swing the bats and come through.   
 In the postseason here, the first two guys in the order when it was Pedroia or Youk or now with Ellsbury, they got on base, and we needed them to get on base to be able to drive in runs.  It seemed like one through nine everyone was doing their part to put some runs on the board.   
  
  Q.  Theo talks a lot about the process and sort of believing in the way you guys do things.  After being here a couple years, to what extent do you see the value in that sort of constant belief in the way we do things, it's going to work, it's going to happen?   
 MIKE LOWELL:  Well, I think from Theo's standpoint it's worked before, and I think he had that same mindset in '04.  And once you have success doing something, I think you believe in what you're doing a little bit more.  But I think it also starts from the top.  It starts from our owner John Henry providing the players and doing the things that we need to do during the course of a season to put together a playoff team, and then it all trickles down to the upper management, the staff and the players.  We're all one big unit that's trying to accomplish the same goal.  But it's -- there's more than just the nine guys on the field, and I think you have to give credit to a lot of people.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT