RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
August 2, 2013
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   5‑under par; what did you basically come to grips with on the Old Course today?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Continue what I did yesterday, a very stress‑free 2‑under, felt like I left a couple out there.   Had a good night's sleep and just kept digging at it.   It feels like the wind, not as much as we had‑‑ but got to play smart on the way out, smart on the way in.   I just spoke to Peter, he said if I can come back even par, that's usually a good job around this course.   
   
 Q.   The wind picking up obviously for the afternoon, and obviously good side of the draw in that respect, you'll be able to watch others tackle that today?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yeah, I think over the years, I think it evens out.   I think I had the worst part of the draw last year.   But I'm very happy with the way I played.   Feeling great with my putter, so that's for me a very, very good sign.  
   
 Q.   And you can watch it from the comfort of a most amazing residence.   You probably have one of the best views in golf this week?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I have the best seat in the house, for sure.   What time is it, 11.30?   I can sit there and watch golf for the next eight hours.   
   
 Q.   This is the major that's probably the major that's frustrated you more than the others.   Do you feel more confident about your ability to perhaps try and go and pull this one off this time?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Well, I think I said last year, that was the most comfortable I felt on a links course, and this year, I really feel like I'm in control of my game.   I feel like I'm really simplifying everything.   
Obviously you've got to give yourself a few chances and stay out of trouble, and if you give yourself enough chances, you're going to drop a few and just stay out of the big numbers.   
   
 Q.   A nice early start, and you made the most of it.   You must be very, very pleased with your morning's work?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yeah, very happy with this round.   Got off to a fairly quick start.   Gave myself plenty of chances and don't feel like I left anything out there really.   Finishing stretch is quite a few tough holes, so if you want to play smart, you're still leaving yourself a lot of long approaches.   I think it's just hard to hit them close.   Even now, very, very happy.   
   
 Q.   When you headed out first thing this morning, you would have recognised that there were challenges to be taken does.   That bring a pressure in its own chance a little bit?   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Not really.   Just got to go out there and follow your game plan, have a game plan for all different conditions.   We didn't really expect it to rain but things change quite quickly around this place, and it is supposed to be windy this afternoon, so I guess a little bit lucky with the draw.  
   
 Q.   When you headed into this week, did you feel that you were sort of on course for a decent week?   Did it feel like you brought your A Game here, or have you found it as the week's gone on?   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   No, I felt like I did fantastic preparation prior to.   First year coming straight off‑‑ I was pretty close to coming off Evian, which had been a nightmare for me to adjust to the two contrasts of how golf was played.   I feel like I've mentally prepared well, and trusting my game.   
   
 Q.   In terms of the British Open and what it means to you, it's been the one that's cost you perhaps the most problems over the years, do you feel that change in the schedule is something that helps you in that regard?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I don't think it's caused many problems, but hasn't really given me any super‑highs.   Overall, I'm very excited about this week and just trying to take advantage of the second time around here and trying to play accordingly to the conditions.   
   
 Q.   And does St. Andrews make it extra special, sort of kind of almost a Super British Open in some respects; it elevates it above the others?   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yeah, I think so.   Every time you turn a corner coming around the hotel down 17, it's always a spectacular view and it's always stunning every single time.   So really just trying to take it all in and enjoy myself.   
   
 Q.   And heading into the weekend, what are the thought processes having given yourself this platform now?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Just got to go out and keep doing what I'm doing, giving myself a lot of great chances, playing smart, trying to play to my strengths and not really take too many risks of being greedy off the tee and so far it's paid off.   
   
 Q.   It's an exciting time of the year, isn't it, Solheim Cup around the corner, as well?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I can't wait to take them down.   (Laughter).  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT