U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 26, 2013
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CHRISTINA LANCE:   Good morning, everyone.   Welcome back on a Wednesday morning to Sebonack Golf Club.   The 68th playing of the U.S. Women's Open.   Very happy to have Suzann Pettersen.   Suzann's competing in her 11th Women's Open with her best finish a tie for second in 2010 at Oakmont.   We were just saying you're fairly new to the course.   Played nine over the last two days.   Tell us what you think about it out there.   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   This is a course that really grows on you.   It feels like a links course.   The more you play it, the more you get to know it, the more you kind of get a feel for it.   
I was here Monday, Tuesday of last week before we played in Arkansas just to get away from everybody, play the course in more quiet surroundings.   Just was able to do all the stuff that I wanted to do.   
So this week is more just getting the fine tune.   Again, getting the feel for the course.   It feels like the course has firmed up a lot, obviously, with this hot weather.   The greens are getting fast and firm, and the fairways are getting quite hard, so I hope this is the way it's going to be playing.  
   
 Q.   You always seem to be in the hunt here at the Women's Open.   What is it about this championship that seems to agree with you so much?   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I just think for me personally the U.S. Open is like the ultimate test of the year.   I think the way USGA sets up the course, you've got to be able to‑‑ they would give you a challenge right in front of your face, and you'd never really know what to predict.   I usually always judge how they set up the course of how the men's U.S. Open has been played a couple of weeks prior, and having seen that, I expect the worst, so everything else will be a treat.   I assume the hard holes will be playing hard, and the shorter, easy holes, they'll kind of let us have a go at.   That's kind of how I prepare.   
I like it when par is a good score.   I like that fighting spirit and kind of‑‑ I think everyone‑‑ I mean, you're not going to play perfect golf out here, but if you can eliminate the big numbers I think you'll be fine.  
   
 Q.   When you're assessing the golf course, particularly so many contours, how much of your preparation is technical in terms of numbers, GPS, yardage, slope?   And how much of it is a sense of feel and sensibility about the place?   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I think most people, as I said, off the tee this course is fairly generous compared to other U.S. Opens we've played.   But I mean, people are talking about these greens being very big.   I actually find them very small.   Because if you're looking at the sections you're hitting it into and where you really want to be, they're fairly small and you've got to be really precise.   This is what I feel having played it now almost four times.   You get to learn the contours of the greens and you can see how to use it to access certain pins.   
I mean, first time I saw this, I was almost overwhelmed how tricky it was.   It was a lot to take in the first time around.   But the more you play it, the more you fall in love with it, and I'm looking forward to a test.  
   
 Q.   With regard to Inbee and the way she's playing, if we go back a decade or so, you've got Annika that went on that run, Lorena went on that run, and then Yani, of course.   Does it look like Inbee is kind of on the way to that the way she's been playing?   What is your impression of her?   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I mean, Inbee has had a phenomenal year so far.   It's not really very surprising that she keeps contending and makes those crucial putts on Sundays.   The best part of her game is her putting.   
I don't quite look at Inbee as dominating, if you want to call it that, as Annika was and Lorena was.   I think there is very much a lot of us in the hunt for that No. 1.   I don't really look at other players, how other players do.   I know where I stand and I know what I have to do.   If I look at my own game, I've been playing good in the tournaments I really want to play well in.   If you keep winning tournaments, it will kind of take care of the rest of the stats.  
   
 Q.   As a follow, because you've been playing for a bit and you play with a lot of these women, how difficult do you think in your mind is it to sustain those kind of runs like Yani was on and before Lorena and Annika?   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I don't know.   I guess that is the beauty of this game.   You can be in it for a long time.   I mean, this is my 12th season, I think.   There are different challenges.   There are different motivations from year to year.   You keep getting these young players to kind of push the boundaries, kind of take the game to the next level, which makes you work even harder.   You want it even more.   I think it's a good, fresh flow and kind of new players coming through who kind of bring some different elements into the game that kind of makes you, at least from my own part ‑‑ I mean, I usually live by if I'm not training, someone else is.   I guess that's how you can put this.   
CHRISTINA LANCE:   How do you feel coming into this week?   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I'm looking forward to getting started.   This is obviously, like I said, one of my favorite tournaments of the year.   I'm excited to get started.   I'll probably feel a little bit more before I warm up tomorrow.   That's obviously how it is.   Having the tension, having a little bit of nervous kind of a feel is good because it means that you care.   It means that you want to do well.   I feel like I've done a lot of good stuff in my preparation.   All I can do is to kind of ease up and try to play some good golf.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT