WEGMANS LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 9, 2013
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   So you posted a nice little 65 there to close things out.   Is it a case of too little too late?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yeah.   I've been putting so bad all week and then finishing the third round, went straight to the putting green.   And just made an adjustment in my address.   I think I was starting too far away from the ball, and pretty much made everything I looked at this afternoon. 
So I don't know where I'd been before ‑‑ I mean why I didn't do this before when I putted so bad the first, second and the third round.
But I'm proud the way I came back.   Tried to post a number that felt like I had a good chance at pretty much every hole on the back nine.
But just a little bit too late, unfortunately.

Q.   You know, 65 is good under normal circumstances, but in a major in rough where you could lose a small dog, you gotta feel pretty good about it.   Is it something you can carry momentum forward?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I mean after four days in this rough you kind of get practice.   I've been out there quite a few times.   You kind of learn your shots, you know when you're dead and you know when you can give it a go.   I hit a fantastic shot from the rough on 16.
So I feel like I've been quite fortunate on quite a few of the lies in the rough compared to others that I've seen. 
The game doesn't really feel that far off.   It's just when you can't putt, you ain't going to win major championships.

Q.   Was there a number that you had in mind that if you could have posted it you would have had a shot?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I mean when I made the turn I kind of felt it.   I was starting to feel a lot better over the putter.   I mean the first you think was just to hit the fairway.   And then once that's kind of done then you can kind of start being aggressive. 
I just tried to birdie as many as I could.   I felt like I was pretty much out of it before I teed off.   And I'm probably going to end of 3 or 4, maybe 5 short.

Q.   Do you walk away more frustrated about not winning or happy with the last round?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I'm very happy the way I kind of fought back.   I said at the leaving this place over par.   So I got it back to even quite nicely.   And then I'm just really upset with myself that I didn't make that adjustment way early.   It's just ‑‑ but that's what it is when you're blonde.   Sometimes it takes you a little longer.

Q.   What was the adjustment?   Just something small?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   No.   Just starting.   My eye line was way too far inside of the putter.   I felt like the aim was ‑‑ I didn't really feel where I was aiming.   The ball came off at different speed all the time.   It was impossible to putt.   So it's kind of a last‑minute adjustment before I teed off and made a good putt on the first and I'm like, yeah, that was a good adjustment.   And I just stuck to it.

Q.   You've had some other up‑and‑down years here in Rochester round to round, almost like this year; right?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Well, I feel like I've been ‑‑ I've had some good finishes here.   Just every year feels like I'm falling just a little short. 

Q.   Because the early rounds, the same scenario. 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yeah.   I'm not going to say it's been easy out here, but it shows it's doable to make birdies and I guess now you feel like you're fairly warmed up and you stay aggressive.

Q.   Another 18?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I can go another 18.   Just don't sit down.

Q.   Confident going into the U.S. Women's Open right now?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yeah.   This was a nice confidence boost that I can actually adjust it and it's probably something that I will ‑‑ a fault I will see again.   It's nice to kind of know the go‑to fix. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT