NORTH TEXAS LPGA SHOOTOUT
April 28, 2013
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Great round out there today.   What was really kind of working well for you?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   You know, I got off to a pretty good start.   Played very good.   Made one bogey, hit maybe the wrong club on the par‑3 and just didn't hit a good bunker shot.
I had a lot of good chances on the last couple of holes, hit good putts, just edged it on a couple.   It was nice to birdie the last.   After two days I thought 10‑under would be a pretty good job, and I got to the number, but knowing that I maybe left a few out there in early rounds.   Pretty good weekend, though.

Q.   You did have such a hot start on the front nine and then when you made the turn, it seemed things slowed down.   What kind of got you?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I didn't birdie ‑‑ I did not birdie 10, which is kind of maybe one where you probably should.   And then lipped out on 12, 14.   Made birdie on 15 and then made a good up‑and‑down on 16 and had a good chance on 17 ‑‑ I mean I had my chances to get to probably to 12.   I don't know what the leaders are now, but I'm probably going to be two or three short.

Q.   Coming off last week and a victory and now how you've played this week, how happy are you with your game and where it's at at the moment?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Early on this week I didn't feel that great with my game to be honest, just coming off Hawaii, being in windy conditions, your kind of fundamentals and the swing changes a little bit.   So it was a lot of work early on, and I got better.   I finally figured out the speed of the greens on the weekend.
It's a great track.   I mean it just plays a lot different than what I expected it to.   It plays like a links course, the fairways, hard and bouncy.

Q.   Overall just the week in Dallas, this is the first time we've been back here in quite a while. 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I think it's a great reception we have here.   I think it's been a good crowd out, especially on the weekend.   It's been nice to be here, and definitely looking forward to coming back.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT