LPGA LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY J GOLF
April 18, 2013
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome our current leader, Suzann Pettersen, into the interview room.   Congratulations.   Leading this tournament right now at 10‑under par.  
Quite different conditions today than yesterday.   Take me through the day.   How were you able to manage the winds and put together such a solid round?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Well, I think overall it's been very fair conditions for the entire field today.   I think it was blowing quite hard from early morning, and it's been pretty steady throughout the day.   At least the entire field played under the same conditions.  
It was definitely tough out there.   The range is the most exposed part, so warming up was almost the toughest.  
Then playing the course, just really trying to play the course, what it gives us.   There are certain holes you can take advantage of, and then others thatare more ‑‑   where par is a good score.  
But I think today even on the holes where I felt like I should have made a birdie and I made a par, I said, Par is not going to hurt me today.   So decent day.   It was tough.   It was tough to play solid golf.   It was tough to kind of get the right club to my hand at all times.  
MODERATOR:   Talking with some of the other players, the biggest thing they said was going out and taking advantage yesterday and putting together a really good number and holding on today.  
Was that a key yesterday, putting together a solid round, that you were able to keep it together today and stay at the top of the leaderboard?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   The older you get the smarter you get.   I did have that on my side yesterday.   (Laughter.)  
MODERATOR:   When you look at holes today, were there any that you were able to take advantage of that you think helped you move in the right direction?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   You know, I mean, today you're playing a golf course where numbers don't really matter.   It's about controlling the spin, your shots, really trying to be creative.  
I don't think I hit one soft shot today, so it says it all.   I guess there is only one par‑5 that was reachable today, and that was 5.   I didn't actually go for it.  
So walking up for the par on 5 was maybe so‑so.   Maybe felt like I lost a little bit towards the rest of the field.  
But at the same time, par wasn't going to hurt me, so I just kind of kept plugging along.  
MODERATOR:   You've had success in Hawaii before.   Is there something about this state that seems to suit your game?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   The closer I get to Asia the better I feel with my game.   I am just really trying to take advantage of being as close to Asia as I can and try to bring it closer to towards the mainland.  
MODERATOR:   Questions for Suzann.  
   
 Q.   How difficult was it to be aggressive in today's round?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I mean, once you pick your shot, pick your club, it's go time.   I mean, playing away from the pin not so much, but playing smart.  
So when I had a short enough club in my hand I felt like I was aggressive enough.   Just accepting that a game of perfect is not the day for that.  
So got up and down quite a few times.   Feeling good with my putter.   Yeah, just hanging in there today and just really trying not to get too comfortable.  
 Just really tried to keep pushing and pressing.   I'm pretty happy with a 69 today.  
 Q.   How would you compare the 69 today to the 65 yesterday?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   It's so different conditions.   Not really comparable.  
   
 Q.   Do you think you played better today?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   It's hard to say.   I mean, you can hit a good shot and get screwed.   But like I guess some of the rest of the players have said, yesterday was nearly perfect day for scoring.   There was hardly any wind.  
Today is what you expect it to be.   So just happy it stayed pretty consistent throughout the day.   I was a bit surprised it didn't lay off towards the end when the cloud cover came off.  
But it's okay.  
   
 Q.   Can you go over the birdies for us?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Birdies?  
   
 Q.   Yeah.  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Game of pars.  
I birdied the first par‑3.   Made a 15‑footer from above the hole.  
I birdied 11.   Chipped a 9‑iron to tap‑in.  
Then Beatriz hit it inside of me.   I didn't think there was that much room behind my ball and the cup, but...  
Then I birdied 13.   Made another 12‑footer for birdie.  
Then I birdied 16.   I hit a cut 4‑iron into that back pin and made another 15‑footer.  
 I think that was about it.  
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Not really.   When I missed the green I got up and down pretty easy.   I made a bogey on 10.   I was stuck in the rough and couldn't really get to it and didn't get up and down.  
Overall, no, look at the positives.   I'm in a good position.   Today was a very important day for me just to keep pressing and playing good golf and not kind of shying away.  
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Where?  
MODERATOR:   On 10.  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   10, yeah, there's not a good place to play from anywhere on this course from the rough.   It's guesswork.   On 18 I got a fly out of the first cut.   It's really hard to predict.  
Sometimes you just got to play percentage.   18 I'm standing there knowing that I need to fly with the 8 and I can try and cut to 7.   Just really trying to play the percentage.   The cut 7 flew way too long.  
It's guesswork.   I think that's maybe more penalizing this year than other years.   There are just certain holes.   They narrowed the fairways maybe a cut or two.  
Like I said, you can play from the fairway, but it's really hard to get close from the rough.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel like on 13 ‑ I think that was a pretty big putt for you ‑ that that birdie propelled you to a really strong finish today?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Well, it's one of my strengths.   I usually don't shy away when I get to the back nine.   Feeling good, feeling sharp.   I mean, par‑5s, I think it's tough throughout.   Doesn't really matter what kind of shot you have.   If you have a 90‑yard shot straight into the wind, into the grain, you're trying not spin it; you're trying to kind of flight it.  
You're going through the repertoire.   It's like my caddie said before we tee'd up.   It's going to be a war out there.   And it was.   We had sunshine, rainbow, rain.   It was a great day.  
 MODERATOR:   Any more questions for Suzann?  
 Q.   (Question regarding Beatriz Recari.)  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Beatriz played a really good solid day.   She was right there with me for quite a while.   I think she bogeyed one of the last couple holes but played really good.  
She is a very strong contender.   I can really see myself being paired with her in the Solheim.   She's a fighter.   Very good, solid putter.  
She's got the hard work and the ethics to grind it out.  
MODERATOR:   All right, thank you very much.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT