KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 6, 2013
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome Suzann Pettersen to the interview room after the third round of the Kraft Nabisco.   You shot 67 today, 5‑under, but with four holes to go it didn't look like you were going to shoot 67.   Tell us how those four birdies came together. 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Well, it really felt like it because I probably should have had six straight birdies coming in.   Played really solid today, had one bogey.   I three‑putted 8.   Stats were very good.   Just really frustrating when you go out and you hit great shots, you're getting great looks and then you roll the putts and it's just not going in.   I mean, it's close, but it doesn't help you, and it's hard to really keep the composure and to keep kind of being aggressive and keep playing along.   But it paid off today.   It was a lot of internal hard work to keep myself in it, and when the putt dropped on 15 I said to myself, try and get one or two more, and I gave myself some good looks. 
I've given myself a chance for tomorrow.

Q.   You've broken 70 in the final round three times here, in '08, '09, and '10.   Talk about your mentality here going into the final round.   Will you be to be aggressive?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Well, first I had a big test today to try to shoot a low round to get myself get into position where I can have a chance.   Yesterday was a little bit disappointing; even though I didn't really feel I played that bad, I had 35 putts.   You're not going to win major championships with 35 putts.   Just tried to go out there today, not overly trying to kill everything out there, just let the patience kind of take me where the shots was needed, and it paid off to the end. 

Q.   Big day for you tomorrow.   It's your birthday. 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yeah.

Q.   Are you going to start the celebration early tonight?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   No.   I mean, I am at least in a position to maybe give myself the best birthday present ever.   A couple years ago I bought myself a nice car.   I think it would be sweet to have a piece of metal in my hands.   I'm getting old.   I've had a runner‑up finish here three times, and it's not like I've only played here three times; I've played here 10, 11 times. 
Hopefully I can be nice to myself, at least try and shoot‑‑ if I can shoot twice my age tomorrow, I'll be very happy.

Q.   Could you take us through the final four birdies, how long of putts did you have and how did you make those birdies? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Well, I took out my putter and rolled it at the pin, hit the center of the cup.   Nice to hear that sound when the putt drops to the bottom of the hole.
No, 15 was a wedge in my hand to a couple feet, left‑to‑righter downhill, right in the middle. 
16, I hit a gap wedge to about three feet.
17, I made, I don't know, probably the longest putt, 15, 20 feet, 15 feet.
And I hit a gap wedge to about two feet on the last.

Q.   When you are on a string like that do you kind of wish you didn't have to stop playing? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   No.   You know what, I was just glad I kind of maintained my demeanor.   I could have easily lost it after 13, lipping 13 and lipping 14. 
But sometimes the patience pays off, and it helps to be a little bit older not to kind of lose your head out there.

Q.   And last question.   Would this mean more to you, winning this tournament, because you've been close so many times?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I don't really think about my past results here.   All I can take from it is it's a course that I like.   I like what I see, I like the challenges.   The course is set up really nicely.   If the conditions stays like today, you need to go low tomorrow.   I was hoping it was going to be more windy today, see if we can keep kind of lead more close to where it started, but very good conditions, so we would have seen a few more birdies drop for the leaders. 
THE MODERATOR:   Suzann, thanks for coming in. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT