KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 4, 2013
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome the current co‑leader in the first round of the Kraft Nabisco championship, Rolex Rankings No.8 Suzann Pettersen.   Great round today, bogey‑free 68.   If you would just take us through it.   It seemed easy.   That's tough to say on this course.   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yeah, that's tough to say.   Today was everything I could ask for opening round.   Just feeling really good all week, and it's just about kind of trusting what you have, and I couldn't ask for a better start.   Bogey‑free, gave myself a lot of chances, feeling good with my game, and if you hit a lot of fairways here you give yourself a lot of great looks on your approach shots, and I feel like I'm striking my irons good and I'm hitting a lot of shots that I'm seeing.   So good.  
   
 Q.   You're the first interview of the first round.   Take us through the course conditions, the weather.   The winds were fairly light by Palm Springs standards.   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   No, the course is perfect.   Greens are rolling pure.   If you miss the fairways, you can be in a bit of trouble.   The rough is deep.   I missed one or two.   You really just have to try and advance it somehow up to the greens if you can get that far, and it really depends on your eye.   
The greens are firming up.   There are a few tucked pins on both sides.   That's hard to get to unless you kind of cut it into it, and I kind of holed it on the first bounce.   But it's very playable, and I'm very happy.   
   
 Q.   You're a three‑time runner up here.   In 2010 you held the first‑round lead, so clearly you know what you're doing here at Mission Hills.   Now that you've got a 68 under your belt, what are you looking forward to for tomorrow and the weekend?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Well, I hope I know what I'm doing.   That would help.   You know what, it's really just try and go out there and literally try to enjoy it, which is probably the hardest thing for me.   I'll never forget when Kathy Whitworth came up to me I think it was in '09, and she shook my hand and said don't ever let the passion get in my way.   It's really spot on.   Just need to get up there and hit the shots that I'm seeing.  
   
 Q.   Given the way the course is set up and the rough, how good is a bogey‑free round on this golf course right now?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   You ask me on Sunday if I can go four bogey‑free rounds I'll be very happy.  
   
 Q.   Both you and NaYeon did not make a bogey today on a golf course that people seem to be afraid of right now.   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   No, and we weren't really close to making one.   I made one good up‑and‑down when I missed the fairway on 15, got it up to the bunker and had an up‑and‑down from the bunker.   That was pretty much the only kind of tough par I had out there.   We played solid, both of us.   It was a nice pace of play.   It's really nice to get around in just over four hours.   It really helps in two‑ball.   It keeps the flow going, and like I said, I felt like I maybe left a few out there, but no complaints.   
   
 Q.   You played with Oscar delaHoya in the pro‑am.   How was that?   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Well, if you don't know who he is, I don't think you would ever guess that he was a boxer.   He's just too nice of a guy and quite tiny to be a boxer.   But I know he was very quick, and super nice guy.   And it's always nice to kind of talk back and forth, comparisons to each sport and similarities of how you prepare and how you go in.   Obviously for him he needed to be in the ring.   He was petrified to step in, but once he stepped in, he was on.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   No, there's no need.   Feeling great with my ball‑striking, hitting good tee balls, good irons, maybe roll a few and come back in 24 hours, I guess.   
THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to thank you for coming in.   Great round.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT