CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 17, 2017
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How nice was it to get the birdie on the last to offset what happened on the back nine?
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah, I mean, I played so well on the front.  I kind of felt really comfortable, good, played aggressive, and kind of felt like the old me.
The last putt, had it not gone in the hole I probably would've dropped it.  (Laughter.)
No, obviously nice to finish with a birdie, but just three really bad drives that puts me completely out of position.  I got screwed on one shot after another.
Not the best back nine, but still only halfway there.  It was nice to go out this morning and kind of play good, be aggressive, and kind of see shots being executed the way you imagine them.
I got to take that as positive.
Q. What does that last putt do for your confidence going into tomorrow?
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Big relief.  More of a relief than anything.  I feel like I'm playing good.  Like I said, three bad drives on the back nine cost me four shots.  That should not be possible on this course where the fairways are about 100 yards wide.
Just not quite comfortable on certain tee shots, and got to try and fix it.
Q. You were talking about the old you.  After missing the Solheim Cup, do you fell like being back in contention here is a little bit sort of redemption for your year?
SUZANN PETTERSEN: I mean, to be honest it hasn't been a good year at all, so to finish off on a good note would make Christmas taste maybe a little bit sweeter.
You know what?  I mean, I'm going to keep working hard and keep kind of grinding.  I know if I do the right stuff it's going to pay off.  I already proved that to myself a million times before.
Like I said, this has not been the year that goes down in the history book for Suzanne Pettersen, but I've learned a lot.
Q. (Indiscernible)   ...duplicating what you were able to do on the front nine moving into the weekend.
SUZANN PETTERSEN: I mean, you got to try and at least free up on some of these tee shots.  As soon as I get in the fairway I feel like I can attack.  I just feel really good with my iron game, and then on certain tee shots, not as good with the driver.
Somehow overnight I got to fix it.
Q. What makes you uncomfortable about those tee shots?
SUZANN PETTERSEN: It's a mental game, isn't it?
Q. Uh-huh.
SUZANN PETTERSEN: So welcome to the club.  (Laughter.)






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT