SUNRISE LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY AUDI
October 26, 2012
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome our current leader, Suzann Pettersen into the interview room.   Congratulations.   A great 7‑under round today.   Tied the course record.
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   That's a lovely course record.   (Laughs).
THE MODERATOR:   You're just racking these up this week.   Can you just take me through your day?   You really got things going on the back side.   What was the big key for you? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   You know, I played really solid on the Front 9.   I gave myself three good looks on the first three holes, chipped it in on the fourth, and really just tried to stay aggressive, and when I made the turn, I figured it's time to kind of shift to the fifth gear, and it's nice when the body reacts to your kind of mind game, and really just tried to stay aggressive and firing at the pins.
THE MODERATOR:   I was talking with Catriona about the difference this year with the wind.   Everybody expected earlier in the week when the wind was picking up.   How surprised were you guys to see these calm conditions and how important was it to be able to take advantage and shoot low early.
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I'm really just trying to enjoy this while it lasts because tomorrow could be a completely different day out there.
Obviously first time I played this course with the slight breeze into on 17.   I played here nine, I don't know, nine or ten ‑‑ nine rounds total, and just feeling really good. 
I've been sweating a lot.   I don't know if I have a fever, I have a cold coming on, but watch out for the sick golfer I know you've got a new caddie on the bag.   The last three weeks have gone pretty well.   What's the difference he's been having for you in your game or what kind of I guess difference are you noticing on the golf course.
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I don't know if I should give him the credit or if it's actually my game that's actually clicking.   He's actually joined at the right time.   I just feel my game is ‑‑ I'm playing good golf.   I'm putting a lot better.   Made a little adjust last week in Korea and it kind of feels like it's keeping up with me. 
I think having someone on the bag out there on the course that kind of can give me a break from kind of my intensity, I think I've laughed and kind of smiled more the last three weeks than I have for the last ten years.   Even in Malaysia I could hardly hit a golf shot I was just laughing so hard.   So it was just nice to kind of enjoy myself and at the same time knowing my game is right there.   And like I said, just trying to stay aggressive.
THE MODERATOR:   We're only through two rounds and you got two rounds to go, but the last time that you won back‑to‑back events was in 2007.   It was on one of these Asian swings when you won in Korea and then in Thailand.   What is it about playing in Asia that seems to bring out some of the best of your game.
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   That's a good question.   I mean I love playing golf.   I mean some players like to come to Asia.   Other players think it's a hassle to kind of travel that far.   I really just try to embrace wherever I go.   Last week I really enjoyed Korea.   This week I'm really enjoying Sunrise because this is the place I've been all week and I'll be for the next two days.   So I'm really just trying to when I'm on the golf course work, and when I'm off the course, just really give myself a break, do something completely different and really just look forward to getting on the course the next day.
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Suzann? 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT