LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 20, 2012
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  October 20, 2012  
                               
  
  An Interview With:  
  
SUZANN PETTERSEN  
  
THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome in Rolex Rankings No.9 Suzann Pettersen, 4‑under today, 13‑under for the week heading into the final round with the lead.   Nice round today.   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Thank you.  
THE MODERATOR:   You got a little bit of a slower start, first birdie on the 7th hole, followed that up with a bogey.   Was there any specific point in the round where you said, all right, let's get going, and the back nine was a little bit better?   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   No, it just felt like I got out there this morning and I didn't really expect it to be as breezy as it was.   Not that it was extremely windy, but it was a little different yesterday, and it kind of took me a few holes to kind of adjust, and it almost took me nine holes to kind of adjust to the conditions.   Just felt like it was a little bit harder to get really close.   Gave myself a lot of chances, didn't quite roll them in to start off.   Made a good birdie on 7, missed a very short putt on 8, a bit of a silly one, and I kind of lost my concentration, and I said to myself, you can't let your focus slip.   As much as I wanted to make it, it was almost a break point where I got my focus back, it got my attention.  
And then on the back nine, very happy the way I finished.   I was standing on 15 and said to myself, it would be nice to finish with two or three birdies, and I think that's what I did.   Good way to finish the day.   
THE MODERATOR:   You mentioned it's been a weird year, not necessarily a down or an off year, but how much satisfaction would you get getting a win in this final stretch of the season, going out on a pretty high note?   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I don't know, I don't really let myself go that far.   Just finished another round of golf.   I mean, I've been in this game long enough that I don't really care where I'm at, and right now I really don't look at the leaderboard.   I have my own personal goals.   
Obviously I tee it up every week because I think I can win.   Obviously that doesn't happen every week in golf, or I don't think it has recently in golf.   
But I'm in a good position.   I feel good.   Just one more round of golf, and it's nice to come off fairly hot.   
THE MODERATOR:   Do you remember the last time you were in the lead group or holding the lead going into Sunday?   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   No, but last time I won here in Korea, I was leading.   Finished Saturday and never got to play on Saturday, so I really hope that I can complete the three rounds and hopefully be the last woman standing tomorrow.  
I'm excited where I'm at.   Like I said, I don't get overly too high, too low.   Again, it feels pretty good and just got to go out there and try to trust it.   
THE MODERATOR:   You've got to kind of give the fans here credit for being very passionate.   They love their golf.   They love this Tour.   What are you looking forward to the most in tomorrow's round, the fans and how they've received this Tour and this event so quickly.  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I think it's great to be out here.   They're really keen on their cameras, they love to take pictures, and instead of just getting irritated with all the noises and stuff, I just try to embrace it.   Good for them.   I mean, they come out to watch us, and I'd rather kind of get alongside the crowds on a good note instead of try to react to everything they do.   
Hopefully there will be a lot of Koreans out here tomorrow.   The fans are great.   The weather is supposed to hold up.   If you want to watch some good golf, come watch.   
   
 Q.   You played a great round of golf today.   How did you find conditions different today than yesterday?   And generally how did the conditions of the golf course compare to other venues the LPGA plays on?   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   You know, the conditions, I mean, obviously yesterday was perfect conditions.   There was hardly a breath of wind.   
Today it was breezier.   Probably the easiest wind for this course, I would say.   Usually pretty much the winds are across, not too many are straight into the wind.   
These greens are as fast as it gets for us.   They're really nice and firm.   They roll fantastic.   If you hit a good putt on the right line, it's going in.   It's very nice to come here and kind of have conditions like this.   It's as good as it gets for us.   
   
 Q.   You're a past winner of this tournament and you're very close to winning this tournament again.   What does it mean to you?   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I love coming to Korea.   I have a lot of Korean friends, not only Korean friends on Tour, but I also have some fantastic partnerships with Korean companies over the years of my career.   Like I said, I'm just really trying to embrace coming here, embrace the people, embrace the fans, and obviously really try to enjoy the golf course.   If you equal that, that just gives love for Korea.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT