SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 12, 2012
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Great round.   By far the best you've played here.   Just tell us about your thoughts. 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yesterday felt like I just had to flush through a round of golf after a long week in Africa last week.   I've been feeling really good with my putter starting in Alabama a couple, three weeks ago.   It's just continuing.   I feel like I can be aggressive, trust my instinct, just really try to push every green with a lot of confidence. 
Today was a very solid round.   I had a lot of easy birdies.   I think I had three or four tap‑in birdies, one bomber.   Other than that, pretty solid. 
THE MODERATOR:   How long was that putt? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   20 feet probably. 
THE MODERATOR:   What was that on? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Par 5, 16. 
THE MODERATOR:   You finished out the back nine, your first nine, four out of five birdies, then back on No.1, another birdie.   That was your 'on fire' part. 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I mean, pretty much all my birdies were inside seven feet.   Some of them were even shorter. 
Just very easy round of golf.   Really tried to finish strong.   It's easy to kind of put the brake on a little bit there.   Hit some good shots, like I said.   I'm really happy.   The score usually suits my feel. 
THE MODERATOR:   Past five years you've been within the top 20 the last four events.   How have you worked on finishing out seasons?   Things just click or do you have a sense of urgency? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Well, this year has been kind of a little bit of an odd year, I feel like.   I feel like I've done some really good stuff and then a little bit more inconsistent year than recent years in the past.   At the same time I've been feeling good. 
My game has been feeling right there, but I haven't been able to fire on all cylinders at the same time.   Today was nice to get a low round, back in the tournament, two more rounds to go. 
THE MODERATOR:   You spoke about the Mozambique trip.   How did that trip put things in perspective? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   You know, it was just an amazing week.   It was obviously probably the week of my life.   You really feel like you make a difference.   You feel like you can make a difference.   It's just nice to see all the programs, how they're working, how the kids are enjoying being around the program. 
So it was fantastic.   I mean, before yesterday, I got a text from my manager saying, Play for the kids today.   That's easy for you to say (laughter).   Obviously it puts a smile on your face.   If they can smile, anyone can smile. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions. 

Q.   Third time coming to Malaysia.   What do you look for in coming here?   What are the best things about coming here?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   You sweat out the jetlag pretty quickly (laughter). 
No, I like it down here.   Even though it's hot and humid, I always enjoy coming to Singapore, Thailand, Malaysia.   Different types of grass down here. 
I like it.   Friendly people.   Good food.   Great accommodations.   Overall a very good week for us. 

Q.   Can you talk about the momentum you built up going into the weekend. 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Hopefully.   Yesterday I shot even par, finished with a birdie.   Felt like I had some good feels going.   Good warmup.   Early tee off today.   7‑under.   Very happy today.   Going to enjoy a bit of lunch and start all over tomorrow. 

Q.   Can you run us through the birdies? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yeah, I mean, 14, 15, were both tap‑ins within a foot. 
16 was like the longest one that I made. 
18 was, I don't know, four, five feet. 
No.1 was less than a foot. 
Then a few others that were inside eight feet. 
Just nice to get going with the putter.   Obviously when you hit it close, you feel like you can be aggressive.   Yeah, you just try to knock them in. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT