CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 16, 2017
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Are you happy with it?  It's hard to tell sometimes.  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah.  I'm happy with 5-under, yeah.   
 Q.  Can you talk about your expectations coming into the week, what you've been working on?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: It's been a pretty lousy year for me, to be honest.  At least I want to try and finish on a good note.   
Feel like taking a couple moves back to like the old me like the last month, and I'm feeling like myself again on the golf course.  I'm hitting a few more greens.  I've been working really hard with my putting, so, I mean, starting signs of improvement.   
Just got to keep going.  Definitely like to try and finish off on a little better note.   
 Q.  When you say "old me," are you talking about your swing, changing in your swing?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: I mean, yeah, a little bit.  A little bit sick of --  kind of sounds bad -- but a little bit sick of people telling me how to swing instead of just swinging it, kind of owning it myself.   
Just kind of play to your instincts a bit more.  Let the shot dictate how you're going to do it instead of you trying to control it.   
I guess as golfers we all go through these stupid phases and you learn from it, I guess.   
 Q.  What was working for you today?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Well, irons are good, and I feel like I make my fair share.  I think I had one bogey with a lousy tee shot, but 5-under is pretty good.   
 Q.  Four of the last six holes birdied.  Any secret to the success there?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: I mean, disappointing not to birdie 17 when you're standing there with a 6-iron.  That's maybe like one you feel like you should have had.   
Overall, 5-under is a decent start here.   
 Q.  Feel pretty comfortable here?  I know the last two years you've been T13, T 14.  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: I don't even know.  I never really feel like I've been in contention here, so that's probably why I don't remember it.  Probably a bad time after all these years.   
 Q.  What were course conditions like today?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: I mean, it's perfect.  The greens are the best I think I've ever seen them.  I think the course is going to firm up maybe a little bit as the week goes on.  No rain in the forecast, a little bit of wind and hot.   
Should be good.   
 Q.  The adjustment of club changes, you have Callaway mostly in the bag except for one club, right?  Take me through the transition from Nike.  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: I mean, I was very comfortable with all my stuff with Nike.  I didn't have to swap.  Obviously once you've given green light to go test whatever there is on the market, I think it's stupid not to.   
The equipment out there is so good.  You could probably find something that is better for you.  If you're going to find it straightaway right off the bat and then get comfortable with it, that's another case.   
Just this year I feel like I've been an equipment whore.  I feel like I've tried everything.   
 Q.  How much have you tinkered?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: I've tinkered a lot.  I mean, now I have a new shaft, I have a lighter shaft.  Kind of adjusted a little bit also after Solheim.  I went to a lighter shaft, which makes me wonder what the heck I've been playing for the last 20 years.   
No, I mean, it's obviously a great opportunity to pick whatever you want and don't be controlled or restricted by a contract that you have to play.   
This year I just kind of really enjoyed being a free agent, say it that way, and we'll see what I do next year.   
 Q.  How long have you had predominantly Callaway in the bag?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: I put Callaways in the bag starting in Asia, so Callaway irons I've only had starting in Asia.  I had Callaway...   
 Q.  You mean the second half of the Asia swing?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah, what we just came off.  This is maybe my sixth week or something, fifth week.   
Then Callaway wedges, I have a super (indiscernible) putter that's not even existing anymore.   
 Q.  Vintage?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: It's vintage.  If I break that, I'm screwed.  (Laughter.)   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT