CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 24, 2012
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Well, this is a round with a little bit of everything.   I had some good stuff.   I hit a few loose ones, so there are two more rounds, and I feel like I can get in position and get more and more comfortable with the speed of the greens on at least the front but also the back. 
They vary so much in speed from what angle you come in.   You had three downhill putts in a row, and then you have an uphill putt and it's hard to get the ball to the hole.   But overall, decent.   Got a few small stuff to kind of sharpen up, but, yeah, hopefully I'll come back.

Q.   How does it feel chasing a 15‑year‑old? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   It feels like you're being beaten by a kid.   I know she's good.   The problem is she's too young to understand where she's at.

Q.   No pressure? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yeah, she doesn't know where she's at.

Q.   She looked up at the leaderboard after 15 and saw she was on top and got nervous?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Maybe that's a good sign for us.

Q.   I watched you play so well in Calgary.   Is there something to it or is it week to week? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   It's a little week to week.   Obviously there are certain tournaments you'd like to play better than others, that's just how the schedule folds up and this has been one of my key events. 
When I looked at the schedule early in the year, it's just a great venue, a great trophy.

Q.   You talked about scoring earlier in the week and saying Canada and Norway are pretty close in terms of the course?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yeah, you feel comfortable.   The ball kind of flies the way it does at home.   It's cold, so not too far.   There are a few adjustments you have to do, and there are two more rounds so hopefully we can get a few more birdies in there and make a charge on the 15‑year‑old.

Q.   That just sounds weird, doesn't it? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   She's half my age.   That's not good.   I might have been out here too long. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT