U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 8, 2012
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Tougher conditions today versus the first three rounds.   Was it what you expected from the final round of the U.S. Open?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I think the conditions today were pretty good.   It doesn't get much better.   Hardly any wind.   The course was really receptive.   I don't think it ever got as hard as it was the last time the U.S. Open was here.   We just talked about it.   I played pretty awful today and just hit my irons pretty bad.   If your game is on, you can shoot under par, and that's pretty good in a U.S. Open.   
Very disappointing weekend for me, 9‑over par.   But hung in there.   It's easy to let it totally slip away when it starts slipping gradually, but yeah.  
   
 Q.   You were one of the only golfers early on in the tournament that was kind of not worrying about the course and all the talk about the course is so hard.   You seemed really, really confident.   Was it just basically your play over the last two rounds and the course was just the course and you were fine with it the whole way through?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I still don't think the course is that hard.   If you hit good golf shots, it's receptive.   The fairways are fairly firm, so distance‑wise it's not that bad.   The holes I thought were going to be really long didn't really play long.   They played 12 up pretty much every day.   Today they played it back.   I think I had a 6‑iron or something to the pin.   Not really that long.   And even 3 turned out being fairly reasonable.   The wind was never really that hard into you and at least we had an iron into the green.  
So overall I think the course is not that intimidating as a lot of other U.S. Open courses that I've played has been.  
   
 Q.   What do you take, if anything, out of this week?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   What do I take?   It was a good start.   Obviously I could have asked for a better two rounds.   Yesterday was the toughest day.   Yesterday was about survival.   Not kind of putting yourself too far out of it.   I was a bit too far out of it and made a terrible second shot on 5 today, which kind of killed the momentum of trying to do something special.   So wasn't too many birdies today.  
   
 Q.   What are your plans for the next few weeks, tournaments coming up?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   We have ‑‑ we're all going to Europe in a couple of weeks, so I'm headed back to Norway for a couple of weeks of practice and see some friends and family, and then it's time to work again.  
   
 Q.   What's the best part about being back in Norway as opposed to being in the States?   Is there something that you really miss when you are gone?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   There's certain foods.   Summers in Norway are usually pretty good.   But I guess it's the mid 70s on a good day.   It hasn't really been that close the last month.   But it's just nice to get away from the every day life, I would say.   Come up against an old environment.   See friends and family and just hang out.  
   
 Q.   What did you think of the area, Kohler, the town, the people, the spectators?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Well, the hotel was fantastic.   Other than that, I was in Sheboygan one time.   I thought it was a ghost town, to be honest.   There was no one there and you don't see anybody on the street.   Pretty dead.   A lot of nice people, though.   It's been a great reception here at the course.   Been a lot of people, a lot of fans, even though it was really hot early on.   
But it's a nice place to kind of get away and collect your thoughts and get some energy, but I don't think you are here to ‑‑ it's not the party town.  
   
 Q.   Your best day this week was the day you over slept.   Are you going to make a habit of that?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   No.   But I mean I still had my time.   I just had to cut everything short.   
It was an overall decent week, very disappointing weekend for me.   Game really didn't stick around, as I was hoping it would be.   Didn't really putt that well on the weekend either, so that kind of helps you to put a good score together.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT