U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 7, 2012
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk a little bit about your round today.   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   It was hard to get a rhythm to start off.   It took forever to play.   A lot of holdups.   I felt like I made the turn, and one over.   Just lost a little bit there at the Back 9.   
Feels bad to give away that many shots in that few holes.   But it's a U. S. Open and hopefully ‑‑ well, I have a round tomorrow to make up for it.   Today wasn't easy.   Today was kind of the biggest test a little more, I think.   Just made a few mistakes.  
   
 Q.   How do you reassess tomorrow, and do you take it any differently because it's a final round?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Not really.   I gotta go out and try and be really aggressive.   Na Yeon played phenomenal golf today it looks like.   And today wasn't the day of my best precision, and it gets you.  
   
 Q.   The wind brought a new element into this championship.   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   This is how I thought it would be from the get‑go.   This is how it was when I played practice rounds here, so I guess the first few days was kind of a bonus for us players.  
   
 Q.   Kind of a daunting number to see what Choi put out today and what you have to try and hope to get to or hope that she comes back to?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   You know what, there's birdies out there.   I think the wind is going to be a little bit less tomorrow from what I've seen.   So if you get off to a hot start, hopefully put a number down early in the clubhouse.   Who knows.  
   
 Q.   Considering there's only five rounds under par today, how impressive was it the round that Na Yeon put up today?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I don't know.   I couldn't believe the scores I saw, to be honest.   I got up to six myself after two holes.   But I had a few sloppy shots.   And it's impressive golf.  
   
 Q.   Did the wind affect play a little bit?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Of course it makes it a little bit ‑‑ it's another element to bring into the challenge.   
Other than that, the course is playing great.   It's receptive still.   The wind firmed up the greens a little bit, like the par 5 on 16, that's such a slippery little pin even if you're coming in with a chip shot.   And I guess that's what we gotta expect for tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT