U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 6, 2012
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Could you run us through your birdies, what club, distance, et cetera?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I don't even remember all of them, but I played pretty good today.   I got off to a very good start, hit a lot of the shots I tried to hit, and just tried to execute my game plan. 
The course is very playable.   You hit the fairways, you give yourself a lot of chances out here.   Greens are rolling perfect.   So just really trying to give myself a chance on pretty much every hole, and had two pretty good par saves.   You know, you have to dig deep every now and again but the game feels pretty good.

Q.   It's gotta be a good feeling to not be able to remember all the good shots you had as opposed to maybe there was only one good shot and you remember it perfectly; right? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   You don't try to attack every pin.   You try to give yourself some makeable putts on the more difficult holes, and the few holes where you feel you can be aggressive you have to try to step on it. 
But overall, very good.   Obviously very comfortable with this course now.   Feels like I've played it enough, and it plays very similar to how I thought it would play. 

Q.   Comfortable if the lead held up for the rest of the day, you're comfortable with that? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I don't really care what other people shoot.   I'm very happy shooting 1‑under 4‑under through the first two rounds in the U. S. Open. 
The scores are out there.   I'm not going to say some players will just shoot low because I just did.   Michelle shot a solid 5 or 6‑under today.   So there's definitely low scores and birdies out there.   So I'm very happy where I'm at.   Can put my legs up now and rest a little bit.   It was a quick turnaround from yesterday.

Q.   Do you think they'll make it a little more challenging Saturday and Sunday to make sure the scores come down a little bit?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I don't know.   So far the USGA has been very predictable how they set it up.   Some of the longer holes on the back pins they've moved the tees up or they've tucked it and moved it up.   You never know with the USGA. 
But like I said, there are birdies out there.   So if you play good, you can still shoot lower.

Q.   You talk about putting your feet up.   What do you do for the rest of the day?   Do you hit the range or when you have a round like this is it best to get away and leave with that good feeling about the way you played?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I don't know.   There's always a few tweaks you can do now.   But this week is all about resting.   I feel pretty good with what I'm doing.   Might go work out, play tennis maybe.   I don't know.   I'm just glad Federer won. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT