U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 6, 2012
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Suzann Pettersen is at 5 under par for the Championship and at the top of the leaderboard.   That's a good feeling. 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yeah, for sure.   1 under yesterday, 4 under today.   It's a very good halfway point so far.   I'm very happy with my game.   Playing very good.   I have a good feel for the greens.   I kind of like this course. 
THE MODERATOR:   How about the weather today.   Was it more reasonable for you?   Was it little cooler? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Well, it's hot out there for sure.   Hopefully we're done with the two hot days, and they're all calling for a cooler weekend.   Which I'm all for.   It's been two really hot days.   And it was very quick turn‑around for us.   Finishing 8:00 last night on the tee box pretty much 12 hours later. 
When you then oversleep, cut breakfast and was out of bed on the putting green in 15 minutes.   Just tried to get a few extra minutes. 
THE MODERATOR:   This afternoon is that going to be a time to put your feet up and rest? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yes.   For sure.   First I'm going to watch some highlights from tennis.   I was happy to see Federov go through to the Finals.   So a few bits and pieces of my game, do a few maintenance stuff.     Very easy, and then do nothing but relax this afternoon. 
THE MODERATOR:   You've performed well in the Women's Open.   You tied for second in 2010 at Oakmont and tied for sixth in 2009.   So this is a championship that you seem to sort of have its number.   You play very well here. 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I like the U.S. Opens.   It's usually the biggest test of golf throughout the year.   I like the way the USGA set up the courses.   They make it tough.   They make it fair.   And it's by far one of my favorite championships, just because of that. 
But this year there are birdies out there.   I probably shouldn't say this, because we come out tomorrow and they'll probably make it impossible.   But the course is playable.   So just keep sticking to the game plan. 
THE MODERATOR:   Very well.   Questions? 

Q.   Suzann, did you have some preconceived notions about the course based on the scores of '98, they were quite high?   And when you got here were you surprised to see in your practice rounds maybe that there were some birdies out there and you could shoot under par scores here? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   You mean the conditions of the course? 

Q.   You know, the scoring in 1998 was very high.   When you came here ‑‑ when you first came here, did you think, oh boy, this is going to be tough?   I realize it's still tough, but there are birdies out there.   Have your thoughts changed as you went through the week?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I probably shouldn't say what I first thought after seeing this course one time.   I was trying to find out what was so hard to this course.   Obviously they lengthened it 400 yards since 1998, '99. 
But the rough is doable.   The greens aren't as firm as what they were back then, from what I've understood, and it's pretty straightforward.   Off the tees, it's very‑‑ I mean, it's probably as well as the U.S. Open is going to get.   Pretty big greens.   If you like putting, you're going to get a lot of good chances out here. 

Q.   Can you tell us what is working in your game right now?   You've had a sort of up‑and‑down season so far. 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   You know, I've been playing really good since the last six weeks.   I lost the first round in the match play.   We had a little chat about what my game was like, and I wasn't quite happy where it was, and we did a few tweaks, and it's been very good since. 
I felt like I played really solid at the Rochester LPGA Championship.   Disappointed not to win that, having a chance going into the back 9.   But at the same time, my game is very solid.   My ball striking is good.   My short game is good.   And my putting has been really good so far. 
THE MODERATOR:   When you had those chats, are you speaking about talking with Gary Gilchrist or were you speaking with your teacher? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Well, I don't work with Gary Gilchrist.   I worked with Gary for four years. 
THE MODERATOR:   Leadbetter?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   With David and Sean.   I spent a lot of time with the two of them.   And it seems I found the formula for me to maintain and keep the game pretty easy.   Kind of keep my mind kind of off the hook a little bit. 

Q.   Can you give us a couple of examples of the tweaks you made? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I mean, it's‑‑ it was more with my long stuff.   I felt like my long game was letting me down, and it's usually my bread and butter.   I like to have the club react to what I do.   And now it is.   It's awfully nice to stand over the ball knowing it's going to go where you're hitting it. 

Q.   You said that you overslept this morning.   Did I hear that right? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yeah, I did.   I thought it was awfully light in the room when I woke up, at 6:40, an hour late.   I don't know.   I looked at the alarm clock, and I think instead of putting it 5:45, I put it for 6:45.   I cut breakfast short and went straight to the green.   Can't wait for a shower now. 

Q.   I hope you're staying close by.   So you're good friends with Michelle Wie.   Obviously she's been struggling of late.   Just kind of your thoughts on her game coming into this event and then what your reaction was when you saw that she was‑‑
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I don't know the state of her game.   I don't really pay too much attention to other's games.   I know she's been struggling this year.   But I must say playing behind her I don't think I've ever seen her make as many putts as she did today.   She was fist‑pumping every putt she looked at. 
So she's a great player.   Michelle is a very‑‑ awfully talented and has a lot of game.   I think you should give her a break.   She just graduated, four years in college.   That's pretty impressive to do that on the sideline of trying to compete out here. 
So now it's obviously a little different world for her.   Now it's all about golf, and she has to kind of find her schedule, how to kind of work it out the best way for her. 

Q.   Just one more follow‑up.   Were you panicked this morning when you saw the alarm clock?   How did that play out? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   For me breakfast is kind of my most important meal.   I didn't really have time.   I thought it was more important to get stretched and loosened up.   Even though it's hot.   It's fine.   Sometimes that's a good thing.   You don't have time to think about stuff. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you for coming in. 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Thank you. 
THE MODERATOR:   Good luck tomorrow, Suzann. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT