KIA CLASSIC
March 22, 2012
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome Rolex Rankings No. 3, Suzann Pettersen, to the interview room.   A first round 4‑under par 68 at the 2012 Kia Classic puts you right in the hunt.   Take us through your day and what worked for you.   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I've been eager to kind of get started.   I've put a lot of work down. I'm kind of sorting out my putting before this week.   I spent a lot of time with Dave Stockton early in the week literally preparing for next week because you might have to have the bounce with you this week.   
But it's definitely worked, and I made some good putts and starting to feel better with my game as we played along.   So got some good shots on the last couple of holes and can't I wait to play tomorrow.  
THE MODERATOR:   I know you and Yani are pretty close.   You always have some friendly bets going.   How nice is it to play with her while you're both playing well and compete out there?   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I really wanted to make that last putt because she was going to make hers to go to 5.   It's a nice edge.   It kind of gets your focus just a fraction bit more.   And like you say, you hate to lose, so you just want to win all the friendly matches.  
   
 Q.   I know you've been working with Dave Stockton since last year right before you won the Sybase.   Can you talk about the work you've done and what you're really concentrating on with your putting?   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   We're just trying to make putting the simplest thing in the bag.   Hitting them shouldn't be that complicated compared to the rest of the game, and that's the philosophy we both believe in.   
It's all about getting the ball to roll with a good speed and on a good line.   So just on these greens, it's all about getting loft on the putter otherwise you would have no chance.   The ball will just stick right on the ground.   
It's a nice little adjustment, and hopefully we can do more work this afternoon, and be even better prepared for tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   I saw Dave out there on the putting green this morning.   Did you guys work on anything right before the round at all or does he kind of give you some reminders?   How does it go right before a round like that when you guys are talking?   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I'd like to be around kind of older people.   They have a lot of great stories.   They make you laugh.   Even yesterday we were done with the putting and I was just standing there hitting a few shots on the range, and he comes by and checks out a few swings.   
You know, it's just funny to hear how they do stuff and kind of‑‑ because I think back in their prime, the equipment wasn't as good, so what they did was a lot more feel.   So it's a nice compliment to the team for me.   I feel very good.   He's a very nice guy, and I think he can help me a lot with my putting.  
   
 Q.   How much do you think it's helped already?   How are you putting pre‑Stockton to now?   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Since I started with him almost a year ago, for the most part, I've been putting a lot, lot better.   It's a lot less technical which is for me probably the biggest change.   But that being said, you want putting to be the easiest thing you do on the golf course.   That's what we're trying to make it.  
   
 Q.   You've been on the Tour ten or so years now.   You've got young people coming up and talking to you as an older person, because you mentioned older people?   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Thanks.   I'm not 31 yet.  
   
 Q.   But ten years out, anyway.   You've also gone through like three top player who's played well.   Does that ever get frustrating that you keep going up against all these people that play so well or do you lift your game?   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   It's nice to have a great challenge ahead of you.   They've all been great challenges.   They've all been great for the women's golf.   
I think still Annika has the most dominant kind of career so far.   I know Yani has gotten off to a flying start being only 22 or 23, whatever she is.   But all I can do is, I mean, the 30s, they say in the golf career is your prime.   So hopefully it's all ahead of me too.  
   
 Q.   When you play with Yani, what do you see with her game that makes her special?   Because obviously she's on this incredible run right now.   What do you see that she does so well?   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   She gets some lucky bounces every now and again, like on the last (laughing).   No, you know what?   She hits a lot of great shots.   Her bad shots are still very acceptable.   She recovers well from whenever she is in trouble.   
She has a pretty sharp short game.   That's probably what saves her the most.   She can be more aggressive and even afford to miss a green on the short side, even kind of saving her par.   
So overall, I think she's a very good ball striker.   I think that's probably one of her strengths.   She hits it fairly straight, and like I said, the more you practice, the luckier you get.   So I guess I've just got to keep digging.  
   
 Q.   What was the lucky bounce?   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   You didn't see the last shot?   She hit it left of the green, and got the bounce and it came in to about four feet.   But like I said, it's a great shot.   It's good to see young, aggressive players because I used to be like that as well.   You just get a little bit more conservative the older you get.  
   
 Q.   Do you see her growing in confidence?   Is she getting better and better?   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   All you can do is look at results.   She's done well.   I don't really analyze her up and down and compare myself too much to her.   I know what my game is like.   I know what I do when I practice and that's what I'm trying to do out on the golf course.   
I know when I'm on my best, I can take her down or anyone down, and I think that's the most important thing.   As long as you can believe in that and you maintain the quality during your practice, that's all you can ask for.  
   
 Q.   Big difference on your scorecard today between the front and back nines.   Is that going to be that way here all week do you think with the back nine certainly looks more challenging than the front.   Is that the way you guys are seeing it?   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Well, I look at it as the back nine is a lot better golf course.   It has a lot better golf holes, driving accuracy.   You've still got to hit it out there.   You still have a fairly mid iron left of the green.   
The front nine is shorter, so you have to try to take advantage on at least the first five.   You only have wedges in your hand or even maybe a 9.   That's what our strategy was to try to play aggressive on those five holes on the back.   Then once you turn the corner and you have the wind into you, it's a little bit more challenging, but still, the back nine is by far the tougher and better nine out of this 18.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT