KIA CLASSIC
March 20, 2012
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   I know you've been working hard on your putting so far this year, and I know you've been working with Dave Stockton.   He's here with this week.   Any specific things that you're working on with him throughout the week? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   We're trying to work on one thing.   Just make it as simple as possible.   Putting should be the easiest thing in the bag to do.   On these greens, it's just trying to get putters that are not fluff because of all the poa annua.   It's pretty simple. 
Preparing for next week, this is a great little track.   It's a good test off the tee and very small greens, so you've got to be nailing the irons to hit the greens.

Q.   Next week is a big week for the first major of the year coming up.   Does your focus change a little bit when you play in a tournament the week before a major?   We know you've been close so many times at Kraft.   Are there any special feelings for you every time you go to that event? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I've had so many good memories from Kraft.   I've been awfully close a few times.   You know, this week is all about trying to prepare yourself as good as possible so can you go into next week with lots of energy and kind of stress‑free. 
You know, the week is big enough as it is, and it kind of gets the most of you by Sunday.   But it's one of my favorite tournaments.   I think it's one of those courses that suits your eye, and I can't wait to go there.

Q.   Last week was your first week with Terry McNamara on the bag.   Can you talk about what it's like having him out on the golf course and what he brings to your game now?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I've known Terry for a long time.   Obviously, when he worked for Annika, we got to play a lot at Solheim.   He knows my game and my personality.   It's like I told him, it's been on my bucket list to once work with him. 
I think it was time for a change, and there's a reason behind everything that happens.   I think it was just meant to be that we're both kind of looking at the same time. 
I couldn't be more happy with my caddie at the moment.   Hopefully, his experience and his patience is going to kind of give me some calmness and trust my game.

Q.   How do you feel about your game heading into this week and next week? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I've been playing a lot of good golf this year.   It's been a slow start if you look at where I've been finishing.   But if I look at the game and I evaluate the game, I feel pretty good.   I've just got to keep doing what I'm doing, and hopefully I can roll in a few more putts than I did last week, and that would make a huge difference.

Q.   Thank you again for joining us. 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT