RR DONNELLEY LPGA FOUNDERS CUP
March 17, 2012
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   We're here with Suzann Pettersen.   Congratulations on a great round today, 67.   Did you come out today knowing that you had to kind of go low to put yourself right back in the tournament?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Well, you always have to go well with the ones on the top playing good.
You never know what tomorrow is going to bring.   They say the weather is going to be quite challenging, so just trying to get somewhere close.   A bit sour to finish with a bogey, but overall a very good day in pretty tough conditions.

Q.   18's been playing tough for a lot of people today.   We've seen quite a few bogeys.   Is that just kind of one of those things?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   No, it was just a bad swing with my driver.   It's not that long of a hole if you just nail the driver, but it was one bad swing out of the 18 holes I played, so I can take it.

Q.   Overall this week how have you been feeling about your game and I know yesterday wasn't quite the round that you wanted to feel good to go out there and be able to shoot what you did today?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yesterday was ‑‑ I was just glad I could shoot under par.   I felt like I had so many chances and left all the putts outside the hole, and came off the course, worked on my putting, and today at least I made a few.   So a lot of birdies out there today and I'm just going to go out tomorrow and see what I can do.

Q.   The weather conditions are expected to change drastically for tomorrow.   Putting yourself a few strokes out of the lead, is it a pretty good position to be in not knowing, it could be anybody's game tomorrow?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   That was my chance.   When I went out and played a few holes, I thought if I could get to 10, it will be great.   The ones on the top are probably going to move a little further away, but as long as I can close the gap a little bit, I'll be more than happy.

Q.   Thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT