CME GROUP TITLEHOLDERS
November 19, 2011
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Suzann Pettersen into the interview room. Congratulations on a great round out there today, got yourself right back there up near the top of the leaderboard. Tell me what was working well for you today. 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I'm just glad to be back in this tournament because I played the first round, felt like I actually played really good, shot 1-over par and was disappointed with my result but not really with my own feel. Sometimes it's hard to describe when you have a good feeling and don't really put a good score together and then other times you put a good score together without feeling great.
 I feel very good with my game. It showed with yesterday's 69 and a 68 today, and I'm right in where I want to be.
 THE MODERATOR: When you look at that leaderboard right now, it's pretty crowded up there at the top. Looking forward to tomorrow and seeing what might kind of unveil? Feeling good about your chances? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah, bring it on. Bring it on. At least I have a chance. I mean, after the first day I was almost too far back, and I was a bit fortunate that the weather was what it was yesterday because had it been the same as day one, people could have easily got to two figures, and I would have almost been totally out of it. It was nice to grind it out yesterday and finish strong today. I had some good opportunities and then saved a good par on the last. Overall very happy. 

 Q. In what way has knowing this golf course helped you the last two days? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: You know, knowing it is one thing but you don't often see the greens this fast, so the lines on the greens changed a lot. I was here the Sunday before Mexico and played nine holes, and it was almost a waste of time because they hadn't started kind of cutting the greens, and as firm as they are, the lines and everything changes. But I've played here quite a few times, and like I had a putt on -- a couple of six-footers on the back nine, and with the speed you've just got to trust your knowledge because you've seen balls kind of move the way they do. 
 I guess in that manner it kind of helps, but at the same time you don't see it in this shape too often. 
 The greens are tricky. They're starting to firm up a lot, and even coming in with wedges, like No. 7, I hit a great drive there today and hit a little cut wedge and it still released like ten -- it was hard to hold the green. 
 It's getting interesting. I like it. 

 Q. Not only is the leaderboard pretty well packed, but many of the names up there are on the top of the list of the World Rankings. Is that the result of this golf course, or is it just one of those weeks? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I don't really care who's up there to be honest. 

 Q. There's a lot of top-20 players up there, though. I'm asking is the reason the golf course that is bringing out the best of the best players, or is it just one of those weeks that everybody is playing well? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: These girls rock. They're good. 
 Okay, to be quite honest, I mean, yes, I think it brings out the best players. When the greens are this tricky and the course this firm, you'll see the best ball strikers getting close on the surfaces. Like No. 12 today, I hit a great shot and managed the hold the green and made the birdie, and you feel like you've gain one or two shots on the field. If you take on some of those shots and take on some of the pins, you can be rewarded, but you can make some bogeys, as well. You'll have to go out there tomorrow. Those names, nobody is afraid of shooting low here, so got to go out and do the same all over again. 

 Q. Which is the tougher challenge out there on these greens, getting the ball close or the actual putts? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: It's a combination, because it's hard to get close, and you can't be too picky or you're on the wrong side of the hole, and you might have a five-footer that you can barely touch. But having watched Presidents Cup I feel pretty good about these greens. 
 No, it's tricky. Everything is tricky. Like I said, you can hit a great shot and have a six-footer sliding, and it breaks more than a foot. It's tough. It brings the feel into it, which I like. 

 Q. When the leaderboard is as congested and with the people who are there, obviously the best players in the world right now, you being one of those players, can you do something yourself tomorrow or do you have to kind of pick and choose and wait and see and watch and listen, or can you go from the first tee charging or do you have to kind of feel your way around the golf course?
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I mean, my strategy yesterday, knowing the wind was what it was yesterday, I started off on 10, it was to kind of put yourself in a position on the back nine, which was my front nine, just try to hang tight and don't give up too much ground and hopefully be 1- or 2-under and then try to take advantage of the front nine, which I think might be a touch easier. At the same time, today I shot 3-under on the back nine. If you hit good golf shots and you execute on the greens, I think it's pretty even. 

 Q. How would winning tomorrow maybe change the way you view this year, if it does at all?
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: It would change my life. (Laughter.)

 Q. Does it put any different perspective on it if you win?
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: You know, I'm just very happy to be in the position I am right now, because after Thursday, like I said, I was disappointed. So I'm happy the way I fought my way back in this tournament, and that's all I can ask for. You know, watching this last year, it's going to come down to the last couple holes. There's some good finishes holes here. All you can do is go out there and grind it out and hopefully step it up when you really have to. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much, and best of luck tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT