LORENA OCHOA INVITATIONAL BY BANAMEX & JALISCO IT HAPPENS WITH YOU
November 12, 2011
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: We would like to welcome Suzann Pettersen into the interview room, congratulations, on a great round today, 3 behind Catriona Matthew coming in here today. What are your thoughts about the final round coming up and how do you feel about how you did today?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Well, I wish I was closer, so I could have an idea of the situation but at the same time I was 5 behind and now I'm only three, so finished up closer to her coming in the last couple of holes. The wind picked up, got choppy.   
 It's not really windy but it affects the shot-making and I just thought it was hard to get really close and give us good chances. I felt like I had a few great pars on the back nine, and my short game kind of stepping up.   
 It was a decent day, nice to finish with a birdie.   
 THE MODERATOR: On 18 you had a nice birdie to pull closer. Can you take me through that hole?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: They moved the tee up a little bit today, so they want us to go for it, and I didn't hit the best shot, but I got myself within chipping distance, tried to leave myself an uphill putt. I had that putt a million times before, but it was nice to finish with a birdie and set the tone for tomorrow.   
 THE MODERATOR: Last year we saw I.K. shoot a very low round in the final round to come from behind to win. Being three shots back, is this a course where you can come from behind and --   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Is this a course where you can shoot a low round and come from behind, I.K.? Yeah, it is. It is, I witnessed it last year so, no, I mean, obviously if you get going, try to take advantage of so many par 5s. There are tough holes coming up, and with the greens firm, you never know what it's going to be, but you have to put a good number together tomorrow.   
  
  Q. What was the toughest thing around the course today?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I don't know if it's that much tougher than yesterday, but if you have a little bit in between yardages, it's just tough to kind of decide the right shot and kind of get close enough. I felt like I hit a lot of great shots but they weren't proper birdie chances, so looking at a par instead of an aggressive birdie.   
 The wind got a little bit up on the back nine so a little difficult, but in Taiwan we played in a hurricane so this is nothing.   
  
  Q. Can you tell us about 18 now that it's shorter, do you like it? Do you feel it's more challenging?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: No. I think -- I mean, I remember in the past we were always trying to go for this green in two. And I think it's good they moved it up.   
 I don't think you've seen a lot of birdies there today, I don't think you've seen a lot of eagles, so I don't think it really makes an overall difference on how the hole is played, but it gives us a chance. Even if you hit a great drive you had to hit a perfect shot to get it on, and the bunkers on the left are more in play.   
 So it's nice to have a finishing hole where good shots can make a difference.   
  
  Q. You were leading in the third round. Did you think you had a chance to take it off your back somehow if you win it? Because last year you -- I.K. won.   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Last year I played pretty good. I think I shot 3 or 4-under, and I.K. shot, what, 18 under? Last year I.K. played up, sometimes players do that. Like I said, I'm in a great position, wish I could have been a few closer but at the same time I'll take on the challenge and take it on from the first hole tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Since you are 3 shots behind are you going to change your strategy tomorrow?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: No, I don't think so. I mean, first of all, around this place if you can hit your fairways you will have the opportunities to get close. This course is tough but good shots will be rewarded. So you hit good golf shots, you'll make birdies. Just got to go out there and try and get off to a quick start and take it from there.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT