THE SOLHEIM CUP
September 24, 2011
Anna Nordqvist
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Every point so crucial at this moment. How emotional and how good does it feel to win yours?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: It feels great. To put another point on the board, it's so important. All the points we can get, it's even more important before tomorrow.  
  
  Q. You've got a lot of foursomes together. How good a partner is this one?   
 ANNA NORDQVIST: She's a winner, definitely, she's definitely a keeper.  
  
  Q. Your fifth Solheim Cup. Is it as good every time around, does it get better, what?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I think it gets better. You get used to things around and what's going to happen. You know it's a tough week with long nights and long evenings. But I think it gets better and better.   
 Playing in Europe just makes a huge difference, and hopefully we can bring it home on Sunday.  
  
  Q. First time you've played in Europe, Anna, is it different?   
 ANNA NORDQVIST: Absolutely, just having the support from this crowd. They're awesome. There are so many people out now, and I'm not surprised if there will be even more this afternoon. They're great for us, and hopefully they'll help us get those extra points.  
  
  Q. You've played all three so far. Are you up to play again and go all five?   
 ANNA NORDQVIST: We'll see. It doesn't hurt to rest. But I wouldn't -- I was really tired after yesterday mentally. It was mentally tough. So if I'm sitting out this afternoon, I'm ready for the singles tomorrow.  
  
  Q. You both played beautifully today. What is the secret in your foursomes match?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I don't know, I think it fits up really well with how the course sets up. Anna is a great putter, and she's going to have hopefully a lot of putts for me hitting my long irons. I'm hitting my irons really good, so it makes a great combination.  
  
  Q. Anna, this is your second Solheim Cup. How different is this experience from the first time?   
 ANNA NORDQVIST: I had a lot of fun in 2009, but nothing beats this. Being at home, in front of the home crowds, and there are so many people out here, it's awesome.  
  
  Q. How nice is it to look on the board and see that you guys put that second point up for Europe?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: It's so important. Every point is important, you know, we need to get even more points up there.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT