SAFEWAY CLASSIC PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
August 21, 2011
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   SUZANN PETTERSEN: Just one of those friends that you've been growing up with and you have all the same friends. It's just tragic, 29 years old.

 Q. What is his last name? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Henneie. I mean, it's just absolutely terrible. He left a 10-day old boy. Got married this spring. So it's just very, very -- it's been a tough summer. It just feels like I don't feel we can take anymore right now, so, yeah.

 Q. You said you still weren't totally pleased with your game. What did you mean by that? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I'm putting good. I've been putting good all this summer. I'm very happy with my new putter. It seems like coming down the stretch, it just seems to click. I burned a few edges yesterday. Burned a few edges early today. Burned a few that I felt like I should have made, but managed to get back in it and give myself a chance and just captivated the few that I had.

 Q. How long was your eagle putt on 10? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: It was about three inches. It was almost in. It was just short.

 Q. Have you ever had a double eagle before? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: No, I don't think I have. I left it short.

 Q. I apologize. I didn't hear what happened to your friend. 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: He died in a skydiving accident.

 Q. When you started today, like you were saying before, you were nine shots back. How do you kind of prepare yourself mentally for a round today? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Well, I'm on the range, and David goes you know if you shoot a low one today you might take over the number two spot in the world ranking. Sometimes you just need a few triggers like that to get an extra focus and make you wanting it because you're kind of out of the hunt, you feel like. 
 But I might have a chance. I think I'll fall short. I think some of those girls will make some birdies coming in, but overall, very, very pleased with the first week back.

 Q. Did you change your approach or just go for pins or anything like that? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: If you have a pretty good club in your hand with the yards she had, I just told her there is no point trying to fire away from the pin. Like on 11, I knew it was enough club to kind of go after it. So sometimes you've got to risk to get some reward, and yeah.

 Q. On 17, did you hit the same club that you hit two years ago during the playoff? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Thanks for reminding me.

 Q. Yeah, sorry. 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: No, it's actually a new club. It it's not the same club.

 Q. But because of the way that finished?
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah, but that's two years ago. I feel like I can hit a lot more different shots now.

 Q. Just overall with how you've played this summer, going back to Sybase and capturing that win, and now having a win and the Irish open playing this way, how pleased are you with your game overall? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Overall, I feel good. Now I just feel like I can relax and enjoy it. I feel like I've kind of proven to myself that I won here. I won in Europe. It just makes you more relaxed. You know, I don't know. You just go out with the lower shoulders. 
 I guess I'm just trying to enjoy it, don't get upset with bad shots and just looking at a challenge. I mean, I had a terrible tee shot on 12. I mean, I wasn't even close to the green on my second shot. You just see the chance and trying to get up-and-down. It's actually quite fun.

 Q. That was a great shot on 18 too. How was your lie on that? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: It was pretty good. But you've still got to pull it off and trust the putt, so, yeah.

 Q. Did you know what Na Yeon was doing that she had gone to five? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I hadn't watched the leaderboard at all. I never thought it was going to be close.

 Q. The day the U.S. Solheim Cup team is announced, you make your own headlines. 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah, I just wish them all the best in Europe. I'm not against that.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT