LORENA OCHOA INVITATIONAL BY BANAMEX AND CORONA LIGHT
November 13, 2010
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Welcome back. Talk a little about the day. Obviously you got it going pretty quick and dropped a couple on the way in.   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah, it's just a roller coaster out there. I made some really good birdies, and made a few sloppy on swings on the few bogeys that I made.   
 But I made a good putt on the last and that kind of helped me get my momentum going for tomorrow. I've been feeling really good on the greens and making some nice putts.   
  
  Q. You looked a little bit upset towards the end. You threw your clubs down a little bit. What made you upset?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Just frustrated to be honest. When you get a bit sloppy. Like I said, I did a lot of good stuff out there, so just going to bring the good stuff on for tomorrow and try and sort it out on the range now afterwards.   
  
  Q. Your five second-place finishes, what do you have to do tomorrow to make sure you don't have your sixth second-place finish tomorrow?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Try and make birdies.   
  
  Q. Besides making birdies, what else do you have to do? The leaderboard is really tight.   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I haven't really looked at the leaderboard, but I think there's a lot of people at ten or 11, I'm not sure.   
 I mean, if there's that many people that close, some of them will go low. You can't really look back. Just try and look ahead and try and bring it home.   
  
  Q. Playing with Paula Creamer and Stacy Lewis today, how do you feel sharing the time on the course with them? How did you feel being with them out on the course today?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I mean, obviously we are all friends and by the time we tee off, we are all competitors, so we all still enjoy each other's company. But to be honest, you pretty much concentrate about your own game, trying to stick to your own game plan. And obviously it's nice to have somebody to chat with down the fairway.   
  
  Q. Talk to us about the 18th hole, you kind of celebrated the birdie. Can you tell us how difficult the 18th hole is playing and how hard it was?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Well, 18 is not playing that hard, if you can just keep the ball in the fairway. If you get the ball in the fairway, you can almost get there in two.   
 I hit a poor drive and I couldn't really advance it a lot forward. So I had to go sideways and hit a pretty good bunker shot. It was a pretty tricky putt. So it's nice to keep the momentum and at least make my par and get ready for tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Tomorrow do you think it will be hard for you?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I've been in this situation a lot. Hopefully my experience from previous tournaments this year can help me play well tomorrow. Like I said, there's so many up there and there's so many close together, that you can't really try and -- I mean, you've got to just try and put your number and try and shoot for that.   
 I think there's going to be someone shooting low tomorrow, so just keep your foot on the pedal.   
  
  Q. We don't see you more excited; why?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: It's not over, is it? (Laughter).  
  
  Q. Are you happy? We don't see that on the course.   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I'm happy. I mean, I'm pretty intense on the golf course. You will never see me too excited on the golf course (chuckling). That's just me.   
  
  Q. How special would it be to win a tournament on Lorena's home course?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I mean, obviously being here at Lorena's home course in front of her fans -- our fans, too, but I think it's a lot of people -- she created those fans. She has done so much for golf and for kids here in México. To be here and playing on her course, it would be a very, very nice win if I can pull it off together tomorrow.   
 I think this is one of the better courses we play all year. So that's another reason why it would be a really nice win if I can pull it off. Lorena is a great person. We miss her out here. It's nice to see her when we are here.   
  
  Q. Why do you think there has been so much inconsistency throughout the tournament, the leader one day is not the leader the next day. Is it because the course is tough? Why do you think that is; that it's tough to hold on to the lead?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I don't know. I haven't had the lead yet. I'm having it now and I'm not going to give it away. You know what, it's a course you can really get it going. It doesn't allow for any bad shots. There's not a lot of room for error. I would say if you hit a lot of fairways here, you give yourself a good chance to make birdies.   
 If you're out of position off the tee, you're kind of fighting to hit the greens, and it would be a good save if you can make par. I think that's what makes this course so good is you've got to shape shots to get close to the pin. The greens are rolling really nice.   
 Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT