LORENA OCHOA INVITATIONAL BY BANAMEX AND CORONA LIGHT
November 12, 2010
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Welcome. 1-under, then you kind of went crazy on the back there. What happened? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I don't know. I gave myself some really good chances and made some good putts. Finally I'm getting the ball in the hole. So obviously that's going to help the scorecard. 
 But this is a course I've always liked to play, it's a course you really fancy shooting well if you get it going, and you've got to be patient. Even though there's some tough finishing holes, just try and give yourself a putt. 

 Q. You have ten Top-5 finishes. You have been so close to winning this year several times, how do you deal with this pressure? Do you feel any pressure at all? How do you deal with this? Do you keep it going?
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Well, I can't get worse than top 35 this week. That takes all the pressure off. 
 It's been a great year for me. I've been very consistent, which is what I'm looking for. Obviously I would like to have some top finishes, but at the same time, being there week-in, week-out, it shows you that your game is really good. I mean, it's just a matter of time before I can eventually get it all together and wrap it up. 
 But yesterday I thought I was a few shots too many, too far back, and today I felt like I kind of put myself in a good position again. So two more days, and I'm going to give it a go. 

 Q. It's going to be a (inaudible) kind of alluding to a horse race, but it promises to be very close with Paula Creamer and Cristie Kerr. Can you talk a little bit more about that?
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah, it's hard to tell how the finish is going to come, it's two days ahead of us. But how it looks, it's going to be a tight race. You have to keep your head still and just keep plugging along with your own game. There's not much you can do about them. It's going to be a close race and hopefully I can be a part of it. 

 Q. You are all within three shots of each other; is that harder or easier or would you prefer to have a bigger lead going into the weekend? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: There's a lot of good players here, and it seems like a lot of players are playing well. Like I said, there's a lot of birdies out there. If I would prefer a bigger lead, yes, of course. Do I feel good about being in the mix? Yes. 
 There's two more days and I'm just about to wrap this day up and get it over with and then get started on a new day tomorrow. 

 Q. Specifically what are you going to work on for your game tomorrow? Being that you putted so well today, is there anything you're going to try to do different tomorrow?
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: No, I'm going to go out and try to make some more putts. It's really hard to get comfortable with the speed on the greens. It seems like it's been very good for the last two days, and just keep doing the same thing and go and hit a few wedges just to kind of calm down and then put on my sneakers and relax. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT