CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 27, 2010
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Suzann, you struggled a little bit today, but finished up with three straight birdies, 6-under par for the week, four behind the current leader. How do you feel?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Well, I feel great now. It was a great way to finish.   
 I still didn't know how to play this course from the rough. I didn't find the fairways too often today. It's just a wild guess what the ball is going to do when the fairways are firm and the greens are firm, I mean you're guessing on a lot of the shots, but finished strong, hang in there and feel good now.   
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Suzann?   
  
  Q. You didn't start that great last weekend, and this is a better start for you and kind of puts you in position for a nice weekend.   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: For sure. I mean I love where I'm at. I like the chase down to the top, but we'll see. Like I said, my game actually feels pretty good. Just a little bit off early this morning, and found the key on the seventh tee box, so never too late.  
  
  Q. What's the key?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Not going to tell you.  
  
  Q. You said you like the chase. Would you rather be here than be on top of the leaderboard?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I'm playing my heart out, and I managed to scramble 6-under par, and like I said, I'm very happy with that, the way that I started today, and all I can do is keep making those putts.   
  
  Q. Suzann, you said you guessed or you played well from the rough today. So what's important when you get in the rough, to know where to miss it or tell us what goes through your mind when you're in the rough.   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: First of all, after three or four times you figure out what it's going to do. First you gotta see what the lie gives you. Sometimes you can't really fly it like much more farther than say 100 in the air. Then you gotta figure out where is the best leave. Do I have space to run it up in the front, which you find a lot on these holes. You can usually run it up to the middle of the green.  
 But I mean I think every single time I've been in the rough it's been like a flier or it's jumping. You get a lot of top spin or it's going to release on you. And it's not really a guess anymore because you pretty much know it. I bet you the time you wouldn't play for a flier you wouldn't get a flier. It's just how the game has developed.  
  
  Q. It's been windy ever since Monday. Are you guys getting used to it by now?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah. This feels like Links golf course by now. It's really firm. The wind was the same as it was yesterday. I think it might be the easiest wind because it's mostly up-and-down. It's not much across.   
 But it's a very good challenge out there. I mean your tee shot's gotta be spot on. But if the greens are good and you keep rolling good putts, they're going to drop.  
  
  Q. Can you give us your thoughts on the crowd, the size of the crowds and their response?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: They've always been fantastic in Canada. They're great, and what I love the most they just appreciate good golf shots. It doesn't matter who it is. They have really, really good golf knowledge and very supportive.  
  
  Q. Are you surprised to see this many on the first two days?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: No. It's always like this in Canada.  
  
  Q. Is there a better way to make a living than when the sun is shining and there's people out there encouraging you and you're shooting low? I get jealous when I see golfers out there. I know there's a lot of practice off the tee, but on days like today it looks like it's all fun.   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Well, I've never had another job, so I can't really compare it, so it's a damn good job. I can tell you that.  
  
  Q. I think we would all agree in here that it is a damn good job. You had a very difficult shot on the 18th hole, downhill lie. How did you learn to fly shots like that so well.   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Well, coming from southern Norway, you never had flat lie back home. A lot of awkward breaks today in the bunkers close to the lip, like on that side it's amazing that I actually spaced right on that downhill. And you know pretty much what it's going to do.   
 I got a little bit lucky, but I expected it to come up pretty much like that. That's what I'm saying, you never know what you get on this course.  
  
  Q. Based on the scoring the first two days, what do you think the winning score is going to be or what will be required?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I don't know. It seems like Michelle is playing well. I mean you can -- even though it's windy, you can still score out here. Like I say, you never know what the weather is going to do. Two figures for sure, for sure.   
 THE MODERATOR: All right, Suzann. Thank you.   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT