CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 26, 2010
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ALI KICKLIGHTER: We're here with defending champion Suzann Pettersen. Thank you for coming. Great round today, 3-under 69. Talk a little bit about it. 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: It was windy out there today. It was a little different wind than the practice rounds and the pro-am, but hit the ball pretty good, made my fair share of putts, and I mean, I think I hit 17 greens, so that was pretty good. Just feeling good with my game. I mean, it was a good little session I had on the range yesterday afternoon, and kind of found a little trigger and off we went this morning. 

 Q. Last week you did not get off to a great start. Can you say whether or not you thought that maybe cost you last week's tournament, and given that, did you make that a big priority this week to get off to a better start?
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I mean, you're always trying to play your heart out, it doesn't matter what tournament, where you are. But today, I mean, the conditions are tough. The fairways are running, and they're very firm, so I mean, you have to be cautious of runouts and certain carries. The rough is penalizing. But I hit my driver really good today, and like I said, I mean, you prepare every round to play your best. Sometimes it works, sometimes the mojo isn't on your side. It's touch and go. 

 Q. Is there anything you want to improve on going into tomorrow's round?
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Just keep going with what I'm doing. It seems like you've got to take whatever the course gives you because it's now we've played this course in three different conditions really, with the wind coming from the south, the first couple days from the northwest, I think, and yesterday it was fairly quiet. I think you just prepare your game and you play the course for what it gives you. It's in great shape. The greens are really fast. 

 Q. If the wind keeps up like this, can you see this getting sort of U.S. Open-ish, that difficult? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I mean, yes, in a way, because in the U.S. Open what matters is fairways and greens. I mean, it's here the fairways are -- they're more narrower than they were soft, and the greens, if you're on the wrong side, yeah, you have some nightmare putts coming back. It's in good shape. And the rough, I mean, you miss the fairway, it's a good save for par. 

 Q. A quick thought if you don't mind. There was quite an ovation when you were introduced on the first tee. Do you get that every week?
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Of course (laughter). No, I mean, it's great to be here in Canada, and the fans are great. I mean, they just love great golf, which I think is fantastic. They're obviously sports fans of all sports, but it's great to have that many people out here on the first day, and we can't wait for the weekend. 
 ALI KICKLIGHTER: Thank you for coming, Suzann. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT