CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 24, 2010
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: We'd like to welcome in the defending champion Suzann Pettersen. How does it feel to be defending champion here in Canada this week?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Canadian Open is always a great week. We play great courses. We don't play the same courses. It doesn't quite feel the same as coming back and defending on the same course, but I played nine and the course is tough and it's going to be a good test again this week.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: Just talk quickly about your season; eight Top-5 finishes in 13 events is not too shabby, but I know you're looking to get that win.  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: All I can do is just keep plugging along, and sooner rather than later, I think it'll come, and hopefully I can give myself a chance again this week. I've been playing very good all year. I've been very happy, trying to stay on top of everything.   
 Now this time of the year it's more trying to rest a little bit more than actually putting down so many hours. But I feel great and excited to be here in Winnipeg.   
  
  Q. Before you get serious, you're from Norway. How come you aren't wearing pants like your Norwegian (indiscernible). Do you know what I'm talking about?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah, I think they take care of that business. I probably have to ask Nike to design me some pants to wear on the golf course. But it did draw some attention.   
  
  Q. While we're talking about attire, do you find it more comfortable playing with what you've got on now, for example, rather than a short skirt or something different?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I think maybe the fans want me to play in a short skirt. Today I think it's just a nice average day. It's windy. It's not that cold. I think it's going to be warmer, so I think my attire will be appropriate to the weather.   
  
  Q. One more serious question. What's your first impression of the golf course?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: My first impression, the fairways are running. They're running. I mean, the ball runs forever in the fairway. A little bit -- not undulating greens but like little subtle severeness in the greens. The rough is up. I mean, you'd better draw a good lie to be able to move the ball more than 120 yards, really. Tree-lined golf course means hitting a lot of fairways and middle of the greens.   
  
  Q. The majors are finished this season for the Tour, but how much of a focus for you has the No. 1 ranking become amongst players?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I mean, we get this question every day now. I mean, first of all, all you're trying to do is to win tournaments. If you win tournaments, the rest of it will be taken care of. Obviously glad to be in the position I'm at, together with five, six other players. The competition is tough, and you need to play really solid week in and week out, and you can't really afford any sloppy days on the golf course. I think it's just great competition, and it just shows the depth of women's golf right now.   
  
  Q. It's a popular thing in tournament golf these days to have a drivable par-4. You had one last week at Pumpkin Ridge on No. 17, U.S. Open had a hole like that. Is there a hole out here that could be that?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I haven't really seen all 18, but what I think is great with the U.S. Open, for example, they make us think. I mean, like when you play here, you know where the lines are going to be and you know LPGA won't make any big, severe, like, changes. That's what we love with the USGA, because you never know what they're going to give us. So you always prepare for the -- not for the worst, but for the best, and that's kind of fun because it makes you think. It makes you kind of think about how you want to play the hole, and is it worth taking the risk.   
 I mean, on 17 last week, you can easily make a 2 as well as making a 5. You've just got to grab the moment and see what it really gives you at the time. It's more fun. I think that's what the crowds want to see, the most spectacular shots. There could be big changes on the leaderboard, and yeah, it's good, I think.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Thanks for coming in, Suzann.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT