RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 30, 2010
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We have Suzann Pettersen, she shot a 68, 3-under par. Great round of golf this morning.  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah. Played good, not too much either way. Was a little bit of a nasty finish with a par, par, and par-5, especially with how the wind was.  
 I was hitting the ball okay today but it didn't feel that great. Just this side of the draw and doing my job, I guess. And when I'm in this position, hopefully Yani won't run away with too many on her last few. But it felt like I've done a decent job the last few days.  
 THE MODERATOR: Condition wise, is it relatively simple out there today compared to yesterday--  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah. I don't know if we can call it simple. But it's different. The kind of wind that was out there just didn't make that much of a difference as to how you play and what kind of shots you make. And it's still quite cold air, sea breeze, so the balls aren't really flying that far.   
 THE MODERATOR: Okay. Questions?   
  
  Q. Hello. You had a great finish with Yani turning. Can you compare your game with her game, what the difference is there after your --  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: My game is much better. (Laughs)   
  
  Q. You know her game pretty well as well.  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah. I mean Yani's a great golfer. She's a good ball striker and when she gets streaky with the putter, she goes low.   
 Today I think all the best players in the morning had a fairly decent round. So like I said, you have to take advantage of this side of the draw. And there's still a lot of other great golf players out there, too.  
  
  Q. How was your hip with the conditions today?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: It's fine. It's not great. It's not terrible. I can still play. But I'm playing in pain, and you can deal with pain as long as you know it's not going to make it worse, I play this week, next week and then I have a week off, and I'll see some specialists on Monday in London.   
  
  Q. Do you think you'll need surgery or something?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: No. I think all it needs is rest. My schedule does not allow for me to rest right now. And we have a period of time in there where we can take five, six weeks, so that's where I'm aiming.  
  
  Q. With the shots you play do you feel the pain?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I actually felt it more last week with as many uneven lies, especially when the ball gets below my feet, it'll just sting every time. And around here it's okay. It's not awfully bad.   
  
 THE MODERATOR: Can you quickly do the birdies and the bogeys, please?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Sure. 6, I maxed out a wood off the deck. Second shot to eight, ten feet and made that putt. And on 7 I hit an 8-iron to seven feet. 8, I three-putted from about 30 feet. 10, I hit a 7-iron to probably about 20 feet and made that putt. 12, I hit a 6-iron to about six feet, and par, par, par.   
 THE MODERATOR: Any more questions?   
  
  Q. You missed 3 birdie putts, is there something out there that the spectators can't see?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: The key is hitting a lot of great putts, and if you don't hit it to the hole, you can't expect it to go in, so that was 16.   
 17 is a great putt. 18 is right on line but short. So I only just missed, I mean you should be good. But it's fine. I have two more days. So I'll make up for it.  
  
  Q. Inaudible   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: It wasn't that much, to be honest. It was enough angle there, and it was just an average result. I could have got that a lot closer, but first you gotta make sure you get out, and then you can start being there. But we've practiced a lot worse than that this week.   
 THE MODERATOR: Okay? Suzann, thank you very much.  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT