U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 2010
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   SUZANN PETTERSEN: Probably with my eyes close I probably putt better. I've been hitting the ball great. I hit all fairways today, pretty much all greens, a few just short.   
 Shot -2; tried to get it back to even for total. Missed my eagle putt on 2 to put early pressure on Paula. Just had a million chances today.  
  
  Q. With the way Paula played and some of the scores today, there was a lot of talk before the tournament about how difficult this course might be and is it too tough. Does this kind of justify you you guys can play this course and handle this course?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: It's a tough course, but it's playable. I think it just separates the best players from the rest of the field. I wish we played more courses like this.  
  
  Q. Can you tell whether it's gonna be a good putting day for you early or not? And if so, can you do anything about it?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Oh, yeah, but I must say I have found it awfully difficult with the speed and the lines this week. Obviously we don't play on these type of greens too often, so obviously getting more and more familiar and more comfortable with the speed.   
 But just so many tough putts. I mean, it breaks so much because of speed. If the speed is just fractionally off, you are never gonna make it.  
  
  Q. When it rained like that...   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: It slowed down the greens a little bit.  
  
  Q. But it also changes the surface of the greens, right?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah, it does, for sure. It's still soft out there. You can still hold -- like on No. 10, you can still hold an 8-iron, which is so surprising.  
  
  Q. Do you have to adjust then your putting stroke a little bit because you're preparing for like putting on a surface like this, and then it goes from something like this to something a lot more softer maybe?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: You know what? I don't know.  
  
  Q. Is it just too psychological?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I thought it was actually me not actually hitting the putts to defense. Another second place finish in a major this year.  
  
  Q. What was your impression of Alexis Thompson today?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I've never played with her, but, God, she hits it a long way. She's 15, and she's the best 15 year old I've ever seen.  
  
  Q. Your second-place finishes, do you feel like it's the putter that kind of...   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Kraft, I finished 1 back; missed a few putts coming in. This week it's been overall putting every day. I'm must say it's very difficult to putt here, but whoever -- however many shots I'm back of Paula is purely just putting.  
  
  Q. How difficult was it to try to play as many holes as you did over the last day and a half?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: It was obviously -- I don't know if it was bad side of the draw, because the course is very playable after the rain. But I'm glad I have a week off.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT