KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 4, 2010
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Suzann, you played great. You had some opportunities out there. You had a good chance to win. Can you talk about your round? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Well, how I played. Yani got off to a flying start. She played great today, and she deserved to win. I had a lot of chances on the back. Again, I finished very strong. I knew making the par on 17 I was still alive. I knew anything could happen on 18, and again, last year an eagle won it. 
 That chip was pretty straightforward, and I gave it a go. 

 Q. When you look back on today, will you look at 13, 14, 15, that stretch where you really had those birdie putts? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I mean, one of those drops, of course there's a little different pressure on Yani playing those last four or five holes. I gave myself a lot of good chances, and it wasn't really that I hit a lot of bad putts. The one on 15 we probably misread a little bit, but the other ones were as close as you can possibly get them, and then it finally dropped on 16. 
 I don't know, it's hard to describe, but it feels like I'm maturing every time I play, and every time I'm coming down the stretch, I feel more comfortable. I think that's what I'm going to take from this. I hit a lot of great tee balls. I'm feeling pretty good, and for me just to come back from last week where I didn't feel great at all and hadn't really played much, that shows that what we did this winter was very solid. 

 Q. Was the tenor of today's round with Yani a lot different than yesterday since the stakes were a little bit higher? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I mean, obviously coming down the stretch, we both want to win. We're still good friends, but the competitive side probably takes over. But like I said, if I can't win, I'm happy she won. She's a very good player. She's very young. This is her second major, so that's very impressive. And just a very big competitor for the next two decades, I guess. 

 Q. When you hit that chip, did you think it was going in the hole? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I knew it was going to be close. I mean, it broke a lot, and I couldn't putt it because there was too much fringe on the front and you don't really know what the ball is going to do. I tried to make it. 

 Q. So another second place here?
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah, just collect them up.

 Q. How do you feel about this place?
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I don't know right now. It's starting to feel like it owes me one very soon. But I think this is my third second in four years or something, and I had a fifth last year. 
 But it feels like I'm maturing with this course. I'm starting to learn how to play it, where to be patient. I feel a lot more comfortable with my game now than I did last time I played. I can hit a lot more different shots with my tee ball.
 So the challenge that I've had in the past is more of a fun ride right now. A little disappointing, but I'm very happy with, again, a very solid finish. I shoot 3-under and she shoots 4-, so one back; another second place this year, as well. 

 Q. Can you describe how long you think those putts were on 13, 14, 15 and then 16 when you made one?
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I think they were all about 10, 12 feet. Maybe the one on 13 was a little bit closer, but maybe around 12. 

 Q. You were talking a lot about maturity. Can you kind of talk about the difference between how you're taking this close call to the one a few years ago that was obviously tougher to swallow, how you are different mentally? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Well, I feel a lot more comfortable playing those last five holes now than I did then. That's what this game is all about. You learn as you go, and sometimes you win, sometimes you lose, but obviously the major stands out a little bit more, and it's disappointing when you're this close and you really had a chance. It's a little bit hard right now, but I'll get over it and I'll be back at first Rochester, and I'm really looking forward to Oakmont. 
 Take it as a good start to the year. I mean, I've had two -- three top threes, and last week I didn't really play to compete; I just tried to find something for this week. I can't really complain, but that win is really now hopefully around the corner. 

 Q. At what point of the day's round did you say to yourself, uh-oh, Yani has really got it going today? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I mean, after the third hole, she was 3-under through three. You can't ask for a better start. I mean, walking up 8, my caddie, Keith, again, very experienced, he says, don't even look at it. The back nine, anything can happen. You know it and I know it. This tournament ain't over before you get halfway through the back nine. The pressure was there for her, and she executed very, very nicely. 
 Like I said, I can't do more than give myself a chance, and hopefully the next time I can execute a little bit better. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Suzann. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT