KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 3, 2010
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: We're here with Suzann Pettersen. Another fine round today. Do you want to walk us through it? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Well, today was another great round of golf. I'm hitting the ball very, very solid. 
 Just a few more fairways today than yesterday. Put myself in good position to attack some of these pins. The course is drying up a little bit, so if you find the fairway somehow on the par 4s, you have fairly short clubs in your hands, so with certain pin positions, it feels like it's a green light to attack. 
 The other holes you're just happy with a par and move on. Great pairing for me today, nice relaxing playing with Yani. We play in practice quite a bit back in Orlando in the winter. So couldn't have asked for a better pairing there. 
 And we both played well and kind of fed off each other.
 THE MODERATOR: Questions? 

 Q. We don't care about the golf tournament. Who won the bet?
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I did. 

 Q. She said you tied. 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: No. We tied, but we both bombed it down the 11th, and we looked at each other, and we're like, what do you think? I'm like, I got you by -- we get down there, we put a little -- I'm not going to tell you, but I won it.

 Q. She wouldn't tell us either. 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: It's worth it. I'll tell you that. (Laughs).

 Q. Obviously the two of you had a great time playing together. Did you ever -- I mean do you get caught up in that being with somebody so much that you forget where you are on the leaderboard or do you care?
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I think that's a good thing. It takes a lot of the tension out. Yesterday I felt more tense. It's all about you want to perform well, and being in good company, players you feel very familiar with. And I mean she makes a birdie, I mean I'm happy for her, and it's equally back. 
 And it's nice to feel out there, and you make the most out of it, and I think it's actually nice to get that. You separate yourself from the rest of the tournament.

 Q. You have two straight days strong finishes from 18. Can you talk about how important finishing strong is and how hard it is to stay patient through a round and wait for something like that to happen?
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: You don't really wait for the finishing holes on this course. It just happens when you make the turn on 13, trying to hit the fairways coming in. But I think my finish yesterday put me back in the tournament, set up a little bit for today. 
 It was a tough day yesterday, but I managed to hang in there and finish strong, and just continued solid play today. So it's going to be a fun day tomorrow. 

 Q. What was going on with you the first part of the day yesterday? And can you talk a little bit to the difference in the greens from today, yesterday? Most players seem to have a more difficult time today since they're getting faster, but you seem to be figuring them out. 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yesterday I couldn't get to the holes, so they're obviously drying out so they draw up a little bit closer every time now. 
 But no, I don't know. I've played a lot of good golf around this track a few times, and like I said, I'm hitting the fairways, sets up a lot on this golf course. 
 I think even as the week's gone by, obviously the rough is pretty nasty, but you can actually get some lies there. I know the one I was lucky enough to have a certain decent lie, but it's very, very tough, and you can -- every single tee shot is as challenging. 
 There's not one shot where you feel like, finally, let it go. You just gotta make sure you pick your target and hit it because otherwise you could be in trouble. 

 Q. What is it about your guys' personality that you guys mesh well? Do you have any nicknames for each other, anything you give each other a hard time about or tease each other about?
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: It's always like she has to call me and ask me what I'm wearing. We always start the match, that's how we start it. So we were fairly close today. 
 No. I don't know. She's a lot younger than me, but she came out and she's a great girl. She has a great personality, very straightforward. There's no chitchat, like I want to call it. She has a great game, very aggressive player. Kind of reminds me a little bit about myself, and it's just nice to have one someone out there that you can tee it up with during the winter and kind of test your own game.

 Q. (Indiscernible). 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: She's younger than me, so she always has to call me. 
 THE MODERATOR: Any other questions? Thanks, Susan. 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Perfect. Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT