THORNBERRY CREEK LPGA CLASSIC
July 6, 2017
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I'm curious to ask you what you think of this golf course, new venue, new tournament.  How did it set up to your eye, and in general what do you think are the strengths of this golf course?
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Well, first time I saw it, I'm like, well, you've got to bring your diving gear because you've got to go deep around this place.  I mean, I just shot 4-under and feel like I shot 100.  I missed a lot of putts today.  I'm hitting it good.
The golf course is great.  I think it's great to see a golf course that kind of invites birdies and kind of low scores.  I'm a little bit surprised nobody has torn it up more than 7-under because, like I said, I felt like I played average and shot an easy 4-under.
But it's great to be here in Green Bay.  I feel like the crowds are really into sports.  Obviously they have a big football team and it was nice to be down at the stadium for the pro-am party.  It's just nice to see a little bit of the north of the country because we usually go further south.  For me I'm just trying to soak it all in.  I feel like I've played everywhere at this point in my career.  But coming up in this area, I think there's a lot of good courses, and we get -- LPGA has a really nice reception here from the people.
Q. 15 years on Tour as a pro, you have played just about everywhere.  Coming off a major championship.  Last week you struggled a little bit with your ball-striking.  What did you work on to kind of flip things coming into this week?
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Last week was a struggle.  Very frustrating first part of the week, just trying to find something.  It's easy to stand on the range and you work on certain stuff and then you take it to the course, the feels you worked on so you can trust it.  But it got better, and by the time Sunday came around, it was there to be taken, and from my point, just didn't put together a good score.
But you try to take momentum, try to kind of do the hard work this week again so you can kind of ease up early again next week.  So just trying to keep the game going.  I think it's easy to stay sharp playing and playing yardages, playing shots, and having to make shots, so that was my decision to come here, and I also wanted to see what this place was like.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT