HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
February 26, 2010
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q. Thoughts on your round today, you seem to be getting better and better?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Today I felt like I just tried to hang in there. I didn't really seem to lose ground. It was tough. Feels like I'm playing on a second gear, I don't know. I'm not putting that great.   
 I gave myself a lot of chances but I'm just not executing. There's a lot of shots left out there, but there's still another two rounds to go.  
  
  Q. How do you find the course?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: It's a great course. It's a tougher course. I don't quite remember it being this windy. Every afternoon it picks up. Today it's actually into on 18 so that makes it a little bit tough. It's a very good track, and you have some good, solid par 4s where you actually have mid-irons, which I like. I'd rather have that than having short irons in your hand all the time.   
 So really demands a lot of good, straight irons and fairly big greens, so you can leave yourself some long putts, and that's probably where I've been, since I haven't gotten them too close.  
  
  Q. Do you keep an eye on the scoreboard during the round?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Not really. No damage done today. I hung in there. If I can stay within two or three, that would be good.  
  
  Q. You must fancy yourself for Sunday?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah, see what we can do tomorrow and take Sunday when that comes.   
  
  Q. Are you surprised that Lorena Ochoa isn't doing that well today?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Like I said, it's a very tough course and you really have to handle yourself all the way from the first to the 18th. Every hole requires different types of shots, some very good par 3s, not necessarily really easy par 5s. So you've still got to make some birdies on the par 4s I think.   
 You can really play aggressive on this course but you still have a lot of longer irons in though.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT