CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 5, 2009
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DANA GROSS-RHODE: Suzann, a great round. It kind of seems like you battled a little the first day to get close to the lead. You were tied for the lead yesterday, and then you decided it's the wind again, I'm going to do well and just take it over. So talk about today and playing in those conditions.  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Well, I wasn't expecting those windy conditions. I kind of had a feeling. I looked at the forecast for the week and I knew it was going to be windy the first day, but after it warmed up, the wind just kicked up, and it was pretty steady wind all the way through, and a little different wind today than the other days.   
 But I mean, it seems like the harder conditions, the more creative I get with my shots and kind of trying to take control of the ball flight, and I keep rolling the putts in. And you just gotta be really patient out here because when the wind is gusting, like on 13, I had pretty much perfect yardage to attack the pin, but the conditions just kind of gives you just hit it right at the pin and take your par and get out of there.   
 So you gotta have to take the chances when you have them. Like if you have a short club in your hand, you can be a little bit more aggressive. Some holes par is good.  
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Your temperament stays pretty even, like I said, from being runner-up, tied for the lead, to being quite a few strokes ahead of the lead. You just stay pretty even keel. Is there something you've learned to stay that way?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Well, I didn't feel that comfortable the first couple holes. I mean No. 1 was just a nice par. No. 2, I kind of didn't hit the best of the tee shot, and I kind of flopped my chip shot and made like a 16-footer for par, and then I bogeyed the next. I kind of felt like I was a little fighting myself coming out of the gate, but then kind of just decided to make good decisions and stick with them.   
 I mean, even on the par-3 where I chipped it in, I hit the wrong club. It was a great shot, but it was the wrong club, and you've just gotta accept that you've made a commitment to that shot and you hit a good shot, and sometimes you just don't do the right decisions.  
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Okay.   
  
  Q. With a five-shot lead tomorrow, will there be any -- will we see you play pretty conservatively because that's a pretty big advantage?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: No. That's not really my personality, to be honest. I have a number in my head. I'm not there yet, so I gotta make some birdies tomorrow to get there, and we'll see what that brings me.   
  
  Q. At the Safeway last week or when you had that lead in the final round and you let it slip away, what did you learn from that that will help you hold on to the lead tomorrow?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I'm not trying to hold on to anything. I mean I'm just going to see if I can -- how low can you go. There should be no limitations on how deep you can go around this course.   
 If the conditions are nice, people will shoot low. All the people have kind of proved that early this week, and I mean all you can do is put yourself in a good position. I'm in a great position before Sunday. I like my chances, but at the same time, you gotta go out and you gotta make birdie.   
  
  Q. Even with a big lead, is it at all difficult to sleep on a lead? Is it something you'll think about a lot tonight or how will you approach tonight before tomorrow?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Hopefully I won't have nightmares. That's where age comes in and kind of helps you out.   
 No, I'll really relax. I'll go back and watch some tennis tonight, do my same thing. If I sleep well, I sleep well. If I don't sleep well, I'll be a grump in the early morning tomorrow, but I'll be fine.   
 This is what you work so hard for. I mean we're coming off the Solheim, which is probably the hardest pressure ever, so playing the final round here kind of feels like a piece of cake when it's down that first week compared to the feelings you have that week, so you still gotta execute your golf shots.   
  
  Q. What kind of conditions would you like to play in tomorrow? Do you want it to be calm and easier to score or are you getting used to that wind now?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: As long as it doesn't snow, I'm happy.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Have you played in snow before?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yes, I have.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Any other questions for Suzann?   
  
  Q. I'm sure over the last two years you have been asked about winning again because you've been close so many times. Has that weighed on you over that period or you seem sort of easygoing, you haven't let it bother you too much?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I won two tournaments in Europe. I don't care where you win as long as you win. I've been very close a lot of times. I've had a lot of great Top 10 finishes. Hopefully I'll have another great Top 10 finish tomorrow.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: What have you learned over your career as far as handling going into the final round in this position?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I mean when we played in Thailand a couple years ago, I think I had a 7-shot lead. I played with Laura Davies. She birdied, eagled, birdied, birdied the first six holes. My 7-shot lead was cut down to one in five holes.  
 I mean, you can't control what they do. You just gotta go out there and play the same thing, give yourself chances on the green for birdies and hopefully roll a few in.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: All right. Thank you all very much. Suzann, congratulations, and good luck tomorrow.   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT