CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 3, 2009
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   SUZANN PETTERSEN: 5, hit the green in two and 2-putted for birdie. I hit a hybrid to the green. 
 7, hit a gap wedge to about 25 feet. 
 9, I hit my gap wedge to about two feet. 
 17, I hit a sand wedge to about four feet. 
 On the last, 3-wood to four feet. I was just in the rough on the right of the green.
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Suzann, thank you for coming in, an amazing 6-under par, especially considering that you stayed bogey-free and two of your birdies came after the wind started gusting to 30 miles an hour.
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: We started off and it wasn't -- the conditions were just fairly nice until we got to the 8th tee box. The wind really started to gust and it swirled around back and forth. And I'm just playing very good golf at the moment. 
 I told Dave at the back nine, it just seemed it was a little bit harder to make birdies on this nine because it was windier. Just took advantage of 17, a short putter hole; and then almost got on in two on 18, so a good up-and-down for a birdie. 
 But just very, very tough because the wind is so gusty, and it's swirling; and sometimes you think it's down and then it's dead into you, and then it's off the right and off the left. So you have to try to control the trajectory, which I'm doing really well right now.
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Looking at your pairing with Helen Alfredsson and Sophie Gustafson, your European Solheim Cup team members, did that help during your opening round? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: To be honest, it doesn't matter who you're paired with, but it was obviously a nice pairing straight out of the gate. It might as well have been a nice, friendly match on a course in Orlando as much as it was a tournament here; a nice, relaxed atmosphere out there. 

 Q. What's your experience of playing in the wind, and is it something you've always been able to do well? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I think when the wind starts to pick up like it does today, it demands good ball-striking and being able to, like I'm saying, control the trajectory of the ball. You want to control the spin on the ball, so the wind does really affect it. 
 You've got to be creative. You've got to be able to hit like 60 percent of the shot just to keep down and out of the wind and sometimes you have to hit one up into the wind. You have to be creative. You can't really lock yourself into one single shot. And when you hit the ball well, you're pretty confident you can hit all of those fun little shots. 

 Q. If not for Anna Rawson today, you would have a record round out there. Did that feel like a record round on this course, especially given the wind? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I don't know; if I was sitting in my hotel room looking out the window right now, I would say par is pretty good, and I would say 6-under is pretty solid today.
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Looking forward to tomorrow, any thoughts? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Going up early tomorrow, it's probably going to be a little bit chillier in the morning. I don't really know the forecast. I think it's going to be fairly nice, a little bit of wind, but nothing like this I would expect. Hopefully we got a good side of the draw and will have good conditions in the morning and just keep firing at it. 

 Q. How much did last week's loss in Oregon, you played so well, how much did that kind of rev you up for this week?
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I think it was this week. It could have been the end of the year last week and I would be very disappointed. 
 I left last week knowing there's this week, there's more weeks to come, and you've just got to keep playing well. 

 Q. What's been the difference in your game this year that's made you so hot? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: My consistency has been really good. I've been playing very, I don't know, it's been very solid throughout the year. I've had two sloppy weeks in Europe. I had some cold and flu going for eight weeks, kind of drained my body and didn't play well in Evian and kind of missed my cut at the British Open, that was my first missed the cut in 2 1/2 years. But even though I was playing well, I was still feeling the game was very close. 
 Solheim I felt like I played great; I got one point out of five matches. Sometimes you just feel like you play well and it doesn't really show on the paper (laughing), and other times, it's just the other way around and it's just the way golf is. You just have to stay patient and believe in what you do. 
 It was just a nice way to bounce back from Solheim last week, knowing I was playing quite good and didn't quite finish it off. But a good start this week, so we'll see.

 Q. And then you come out and do this in the wind, it sounds like your game is really on given the fact you've had a little bit of heartbreak lately. 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah, that's okay. I can take it. I'm still young. (Laughing).
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Thank you very much, Suzann, and good luck the rest of this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT