U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 10, 2009
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How was your round today?
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: My goal was to try to get it back to par. Got it going there for a while. Pretty much wanted that hole. That shot was some bad luck, out of position on the tee. 
 Other than that, I'm playing pretty good golf. I'm hanging in there. This course is playing as good as it can be played. 
 Like I said earlier, they haven't really made the course any shorter. They're playing pretty much full length, which I think is great. The greens are what they are. They're tough. You really want to be on the right side. But I'm hitting a lot of great shots. I'm giving myself opportunities. I'm very happy with the speed of the greens. 
 Yeah. I would have loved to have like another one or two birdies, but I'm very happy overall with where I'm standing.

 Q. Can you kind of go over 16. I know you hit in that bunker yesterday as well and that chip shot?
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah. I'm trying to just get that on the green, got quite a little heavy, and I mean it's right out of my alley, that little third shot I'm trying to hit, and it's into the grain, very tight line. And that's all I've been practicing this week, and like I said, I'm just trying to fly it there. 
 I've been practicing it all week. I mean it's like back of my pocket, but I didn't execute it. I put myself in the worst position, so if I went back now, I think I could pull it off. 

 Q. It was a great pitch from back there. That was beautiful. 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: It was so out of position. I mean in the U.S. Open, you're trying to avoid the double bogeys. Those are so hard to bounce back from. But I made up for it. Yeah, I made up for it, but I mean you need two for a double bogey. Only need one for a bogey. 
 But it's okay. I mean you're not going to have flawless golf 72 holes in the U.S. Open. The holes you struggle you gotta grind. But I think I did that pretty well out there. It's not easy.

 Q. Lindsey said that you two were talking about how great the golf is and the setup from week to week and then here, how much it's a shock. 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I think this is -- usually the U.S. Open is the ultimate test. They pretty much set the course as challenging as possible. The rough is up. 
 Last year it was a little different. It was different than what we all expected. The rough was playable. I mean you could shoot like 4-under par, and that was a good score. 
 Par wasn't necessarily a great score last year. This year it is, and this is where we want it be, and you absolutely gotta play good golf to get around this place.

 Q. You must have been happy with the fact you were able to refocus for 17 and play that hole well after 16. 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah. I haven't really finished off the way I wanted on that side of the course. Yesterday I mean I bogeyed last three. Today I double bogeyed 16, birdied 17 and gave myself a good shot on 18. But there's two more days. 

 Q. You're pretty aggressive about everything in life. Is there anything that makes you timid or makes you shy?
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: If you set me on a blind date, that would probably be pretty good. 
 No, I don't know. I feel, yes, I mean my heart was pumping on the first tee. At the beginning of the week you feel very relaxed and calm and you feel you have done everything. I mean, once you step on that tee box, you feel like there is some tension there. It's just nice to feel that. That's why you work so hard, to feel your body, and try to execute under a little bit of pressure. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT