SYBASE CLASSIC PRESENTED BY SHOPRITE
May 17, 2009
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: Let's do your card. Bogey 1.  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I hit it in the water second shot and got up-and-down for bogey.   
 2, 3-putt and a missed 3-footer for par.   
 5, third shot to about five feet.   
 6, 4-iron to about five feet.  
 7, wedge to about two feet.   
 12, missed the green left, and 17 I missed a two-and-a-half-footer for par.   
 18, I missed a 20-footer.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: A runner-up, good finish. I imagine you're a little disappointed, but if you could just take us through your day and how it went for you.   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I mean, obviously it's a tough day. Conditions are tough.   
 So I kind of got off to a tough start but came back pretty strong there on 5, 6, 7, left myself right in contention. And yeah, playing really good and kept giving myself a lot of little chances like 13, 14, 15, solid birdie chances but they didn't want to drop. To win golf tournaments you need to make putts when you really need to, and today wasn't that day.`  
Q. You had a lot of chances on the back; misreads, or what?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I mean, these greens are tough. I mean, it looks like they are going to break like half a ball, and you play half a ball and then it jumps a little bit. I mean, like I said, try to hit solid putts and they didn't drop.   
  
  Q. What were you trying to hit on 12?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I mean, I was out of position. I was lucky to draw some kind of lie. All you're trying to do is not lose it right.   
 Actually I left myself a pretty tough up-and-down on that side of the green, but I thought that was better than trying to lay up.   
  
  Q. Did you hit iron?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: You could probably get a 4-iron just short of the green, but the lie was decent enough that I could get my rescue and just choke it down, and if it comes out perfect, it will be pin-high.   
  
  Q. Were you trying to run it up the green?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah, I was trying to run it up on the front, and best case, pin-high.   
  
  Q. When you finish second in a tournament like this, are you happy? Disappointed?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Well, there are a lot of different ways to look at it. Yeah, I'm very disappointed. You look at Kraft Nabisco two years ago, I felt like I earned a second place. Today, I felt like I gave away another win, and this will be another second place.  
  
  Q. Your playing partner, how steady she played, can you just talk about that?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah, she put herself in position, makes very few mistakes and putts it great. She has a great short game. She had some great up-and-downs today and that's what you need around here.   
  
  Q. Frustrating when someone is just kind of grinding like that and getting up-and-down?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: That's usually how you win tournaments. (Laughter).  
  
  Q. That putt on 17, did that have a weird break? Did it just miss?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Well, I've been trying to get rhythm now for the last two weeks, and I missed probably two of those, one early on and then one on 17, which is -- it's game over when you miss that.   
  
  Q. Your club on No. 1 for the second shot?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I don't know.   
  
  Q. Miss-hit?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I haven't hit a shot like that in --  
  
  Q. On 13, 14, 15, 16, were those all 20-foot range for birdie putts?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I don't know, they were probably inside 15. So I mean, I gave myself a great chance on 13 to bounce back from that bogey. Misread I guess. I hit a good putt and I missed.  
 Next I hit a good putt and I missed and that was inside 15 feet again on the par 3.   
 And 16, I actually don't hit it close enough, which is a bit disappointing. And then on 17, I don't really know how to get it closer. I mean, trying to hit a hard 7-iron to get it close, the wind just makes it hard to stop it.   
  
  Q. Was there a point today where you just thought, what is it going to take for Oh to make a mistake?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I mean, I've got to look at what I can do. I can't really control what she does. I have to make my putts and make my shots, and when it all comes to the finish, you add it up.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Suzann, thanks a lot.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT