SYBASE CLASSIC PRESENTED BY SHOPRITE
May 16, 2009
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: 12-under, tied for the lead going into the final round. If you would, just talk about today and a chance to get a win for the first time since 2007 on the LPGA. 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Today I made up some ground. I played very solid. Gave myself a lot of chances. You've just got to keep hitting solid putts. Some are going to go in; some are going to bounce on the line. But all you can do is focus on hitting solid putts, and as long as you give yourself chances, there are plenty of birdies out there. 

 Q. In your mind, seeing the three of you on the back nine, did you yourself feel that you maybe left something out there? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I definitely made a few really good pars around 12, 13, where I was a little bit out of position. 
 Of course, coming in the last five holes, I had some good chances, and that's just what I'm saying, all you can do is try to hit solid putts. Like some are going to drop and some are not. 
 So a good, solid round of golf, and then at least I'm in the hunt. 

 Q. Talk about your approach tomorrow, how you approach a round from the position you're in going in. 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Pretty similar to what you've done the last three days. Try to go out there and put yourself in position off the tee. I think that's most important thing here. The greens are big enough, so keep hitting fairways and give yourself a chance to be aggressive to certain pins; I think that's the key. 

 Q. Will you fall back on the feelings and experience you had during your wins? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah, but I mean, when you're there, I mean, you play with your game now. My game now compared to a year ago or even six months ago feels so much better. 
 So I feel very good with what I'm doing, and of course experience is going to help. But there's a few others out there who really won, so they should have more experience. 

 Q. What was it that had you off your game for a little while? What's kept you away from winning? What has changed that is better now? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Golf is a very marginal game, I would say. Last year was a very good year for me. I mean, I had, I don't know, two or three or four top seconds, and a couple of top threes. I mean, if you just took one of those from a second to a first, you've had a great season. 
 So to be too judgmental and say I've been really down and in kind of a slump. I don't think that's the right way to say it. At the same time I've been working really hard on my swing to change. I've been working really hard with David the last year and now it's really starting to go automatic, which is really nice, but at the same time, do you still change it and you do still have golf as a living and you have to make sure you stay competitive as you do these changes. 
 But I think I've been doing pretty good. 

 Q. What sort of changes? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I've changed coaches. Of course a few different approaches and a few different moves you want to try to achieve. It just takes some time. It's not done overnight and you just have to keep grinding every day and believe in what you do. It will start to pay off. 
 Like I said, I think I feel that I've been doing pretty good. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Thanks so much.
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: 1, gap wedge to about 15 feet. Made that. 
 3, hit it just over the green and missed a 10-footer for par. 
 5, hit the green in two, and just tapped in my birdie. 
 6, I hit a 9-iron to about ten feet. 
 7, 3-putt and missed a 4-footer for par. 
 8, hit an 8-iron to about six feet. 
 9, I had a 30-footer. 
 16, I hit a gap wedge to about ten feet. 
 17, I missed a 20-footer for par. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT