SYBASE CLASSIC PRESENTED BY SHOPRITE
May 15, 2009
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: Birdie at 17. 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Birdied 17 with 5-ion to 15 feet. 
 2, I hit it way over the green and had a chance for par and missed that. 
 4, gap wedge to about ten feet. 
 5, hit the green in two with a 4-iron, just laid it down to a tap-in. 
 6, 8-iron to about a foot. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Nice round out there. You stayed at the top of the leaderboard. Seemed like there was not a whole lot of scoring going on out there in the morning wave. Are you happy with where you are right now? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah, I mean, it could have gone either/or. I was -- my game is still very good, but I just was not as sharp as yesterday and I had a few scrambles, a few good bogeys that just managed to kick in some birdies on the back nine for me. 
 Nice way to finish, but there's a lot more golf to be played. 

 Q. Are the scoring conditions easier, harder, the same as yesterday? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: The greens are definitely softer from a bit of rain. T was hard, even if you tried to hit no spin on the ball, you have to make sure you hit it hard for to come back. That's a difficult different from yesterday afternoon. 
 Other than that, this course is in great shape. You've got to hit the fairways.

 Q. I didn't see 18. What did you have on your second shot on 18 today? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: On 18, today I had a 4-iron, lay-up. I mean that, hole is playing totally different today. Nobody is going to reach that today, unless the wind changes, I don't think it will. 

 Q. Had you felt like a little bit of a lone wolf out there chasing the number that Helen put out early yesterday? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Not really. I mean, obviously you try to go out there and shoot as low as you can, give yourself chances. 
 I'm playing my own game, and today 2-under was like a decent score. But like I said, there's still a lot to be done out there.

 Q. Do you anticipate conditions get are more difficult in the afternoon today?
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I think the conditions the first and second day will be pretty equalled out. I think if it's like yesterday, it was pretty windy all day and today it's going to be like this pretty much all day. I don't think the conditions will vary too much. 

 Q. You didn't play here last year; is that correct?
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I thought winning in Europe was as good as playing here. I played in Europe. I didn't have a week off. We played the Deutsche Bank in Switzerland, which is this week. So I'm obviously not defending my title here and instead playing here. 

 Q. Why aren't you defending? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Because I want to play here in, front of you. (Laughter).
 MIKE SCANLAN: Suzann, thanks for coming in. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT