ADT CHAMPIONSHIP
November 22, 2008
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Are you relieved to know that you're playing tomorrow? Was that the first thing? Just relief? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: At least I'm in the hunt for the million dollars prize. But what can I say? I mean, I'm very happy the way I played today. I had one bad hole, and I'll try to manage to come back, finished quite strong. We're used to seeing the ball hop in the holes on the greens, so it gives me confidence for tomorrow.

 Q. You had 131st out of 135, you had a bunch of them today?
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: That was the plan. No bogies, two birdies on the first couple of days and a bunch of them on the weekend. 

 Q. What was it just you made putts or did something change? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I've been playing very good for the last couple of weeks. Just the score just hasn't gone. My game of golf is weird, sometimes you might play great, you don't score, and the score is matching my field which is very nice. Very nice time, and I still think the best golf for me this week is ahead of me.

 Q. Is it a normal round tomorrow, or can it be normal with a million bucks sitting there in a box on the first tee as you start off? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I don't think any of us are actually play planning on going out there tomorrow thinking of the money. We all go out there to be competitive. We all want to win. 
 At least you've got a position where you're capable of winning. You could have been eliminated. But now you're in the best position, and you've got to play well again tomorrow. 

 Q. Did you play more aggressively than you otherwise would have? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: No, but I kept saying there's tons of birdies out here, not that I've had too many before that. But I mean, I'm hitting the ball good enough to make birdies out there, so it was nice to finally see some of the putts drop. 

 Q. Still looking for your first win this year, is that right? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: At least I have a chance. 

 Q. Well, I guess my question is you talked about timing being weird or being everything. I suppose timing would be great?
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: It's my last chance, so I might as well try to grab it.

 Q. Can you take us through the triple bogey and the 7 birdies? Is that what you made? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: The triple bogey I hit left of the tee. Got a little lucky. Actually had a shot from a little different angle than I'm used to. Just tried to hit a little bit too high, and the wind took it. 
 I mean, I'm up in the water, and the cheap three-putt. So I should have probably gone off one or two less. But it happens out there on the greens. I mean, 17, if you look at that pin, you could hit a perfect shot pin high.

 Q. Make 7 birdies today? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: 7 birdies today. No, 8 birdies today and the bogey on 17. 
 But, I mean, it's just nice to kind of get in the flow. Tomorrow's a new day. We all start from par. So it doesn't really matter what you've done today, all that matters today is that you get in position and job completed for Saturday. 

 Q. You won what five times last year? Three seconds this year and you've made a ton of money. Would it be a disappointing year? Is this already a good year in your estimation? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I've already had my two wins in Europe. Which probably means more for me than it does for anyone else, because when you go there people expect you to win. You play with a little different pressure. 
 But like I said, I'm in contention all the time, just able to pull the trigger at the right time and the right place. That's all can you ask for. That's how you can get better. Just keep grinding and keep working. 
 The more often you put yourself in that position, finally it's going to come to you.

 Q. If you're picked first tomorrow, will you choose to go in the last group? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I heard about that yesterday. I don't know. Of course it would be nice going out first, try to post a score. If you're all the way back you know what's going on ahead of you. 
 I haven't given it too much of a thought. But you've got to go out there tomorrow and try to play your game. Of course you're playing for a million bucks. 

 Q. I guess you have about 45 minutes to decide what your strategy is. 
 KARRIE WEBB: We'll see. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT