GRAND CHINA AIR LPGA
October 22, 2008
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: How are you, Suzann?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Very excited to be here in China. My first time, and it's much warmer than I thought.   
 THE MODERATOR: Can you tell us a bit so far about the last 24 hours?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I got here this morning and played the back nine. Very good golf course. Very straight course. It's very long, all the rain you've had. It's going to be playing a little bit longer, but at the same time be much more aggressive coming into the green.   
 So having just seen the back nine, I think it's very scorable for us and yeah, the rough isn't too bad either.   
  
  Q. You had eight Top-10s and two seconds but no win, but last year you won two events, majors, but now you're back in Asia?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I like Asia. I've had a great year, I think I've had a couple second places, a couple where I feel like I should have won. But my time will come. I just have to be a bit more patient I guess.  
 I have played a little bit in Europe and I had great success there this year. It's kind of hard to play on both tours. I mean, you try to be dominating in Europe and you try to dominate in the U.S. Sometimes you've got to give up certain tournaments for others.   
 But I mean, I really enjoyed my time and I've been healthy and with all of my changes this year, I'm very happy.   
  
  Q. You made quite a few changes, I heard coaches, equipment, everything; does it take a long time for to you get adjusted?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: No, it doesn't feel like it. Everything I've done is changes for the better, I'm pretty sure.   
 My clubs I changed and I've played with Nikes all year, and I have some new clubs in my bag this week. I've had them a couple of weeks and it seems like they are working.   
 I'm very happy with what I had in my bag and I'm very happy with everything from apparel.  
 Coaches, like I said, I've changed, because I think it's for the better. I know what I'm looking for and I know the consistency I'm looking for, and I know I'm in good hands right now. So now I've just got to be patient and like you're saying, I'm close.   
  
  Q. (Who is your new coach)?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I'm working with David Leadbetter. Worked with him since just before the U.S. Open. I mean, at first, changing, I've changed in the middle of the season. It's not that I've seen him too much.   
 But the work we've done, he's been very good. I like what I hear and what I've been told. We kind of have a good chemistry, and for me, it's all about having somebody that I can kind of take in the head, like I want to pick his brain a little bit, because he has a lot of knowledge. He's probably, I don't know, he's like a legend out there.   
 He's just got so much experience, and for me it's important that I have somebody that I feel knows more than me, so I always feel like I learn something every day. It's been very good, and I can't wait to next season where I can have a bit more time and can settle down and don't stress around and fly off to tournaments and don't feel like I should have.  
 I'm very happy. I've still been very competitive after I've changed. Like I said I'm very close to getting my first win of the year. But I mean, everything is going to come in its natural time.   
  
  Q. (How challenging is it to win on the LPGA Tour with all of the great players)?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: We talked about that last week. It's such a small margin from having a good year to a great year to a fantastic year. Last year, I won several times and it was a fantastic year. And this year I have no wins so far and I have two wins in Europe. I'm still quite pleased with the season, but a win this week or next week would make a big difference.   
 The competition out here is awesome. Every week, you've got to play your absolute best to win, and I mean, the challenge is right there, too; it's right in front of you. I still think I've had a great year. Of course, every week I'm trying out there to win. And I've been close. It not like I'm doubting I'm good enough, because I already got that confirmation last year. I just try to play with what I have that week and accept, and now this week is a new week and a new golf course.   
 Yeah, just try to be patient to be honest, because it's like you said, there's so many great players out here and everyone is out here trying to beat each other. You've got to kind of have the trust and belief that you're doing the right thing.   
  
  Q. (About competitive nature).   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I mean, every week, I try to win. If not, I shouldn't be out here.   
 But I mean, yes, I'm very competitive and I love winning, but like I'm saying, I mean, you've got to play your best to get your wins out here. What I am trying to achieve is to put myself in position every Sunday where I have a chance. If you do that enough, you will get your win.   
  
  Q. We saw that chip out of the bunker --  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: No, I haven't. I'm very excited, like last year, I have the Korean national dress. Maybe this one will be a little different.  
  
  Q. Did you wear what you had last year?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: No, I only wore it ten or 15 minutes before they came up and tore it down.   
 The dress, I mean, when you grew up and you would see women in China, that's what you see. So it's going to be interesting to put one on and kind of have one in your own closet.  
  
  Q. So on Sunday, maybe you will put it on?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: That could be a deal. (Laughter).  
  
  Q. Okay. With the trophy?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: With the trophy.   
  
  Q. Have you ever played with Shanshan Feng and what do you think of her?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: No, but I know her. We used to work with the same coach.   
 I've been around her. She's a straight girl, pretty straightforward. She will say what she has on her mind. I think she's great and she has great golf skills. The thing is she's just trying to get comfortable and she's playing great. She's been travelling around getting to know the Tour. And now that it's in China, I think it's great and I think it great that we spread it around to all different countries that we represent.   
  
  Q. (Regarding keys to winning and experience).   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah, I mean, golf is pretty much all between your ears. Like out here, everybody can hit the ball from A to B; but it's who can do it under pressure.   
  But I think managing your own mind-set, your approach, I think it's a lot about how well do you know yourself and what kind of buttons can you push, and you know, good things will happen.   
 I think it's a lot to do with experience and that's also I didn't think you find a lot of good golfers in their late 20s, made 30s, because age does help. You get older and you understand better and you can accept the kind of game of golf better. But like I'm saying, experience can also make a difference. If you've been in contention ten Sundays in a row, you know exactly how your body see going to react.  
 If it's your first time, maybe you won't. But it's hard to kind of know what the body is going to do or how it's going to react if you haven't been in the same situation before; that's what I'm saying. If you put yourself in those situations often enough, your body will adjust and know what's going to happen and you can hopefully produce the best you can.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you so much, Suzann.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT