SOLHEIM CUP
September 15, 2019
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SUZANN PETTERSEN: I tried to get the ball on the green with that pin (indiscernible) long. It was crazy. It was a great (indiscernible). Fantastic sport.
Q. (Indiscernible).
SUZANN PETTERSEN: It was a left-center putt. And I didn't know what (indiscernible) -- I really didn't. I knew it was very close. And I told (indiscernible), is this the moment, really? Like, walking up to the green. I think this is it. This is me and the Solheim Cup forever. And this is a chapter to close (indiscernible).
Q. You've been an amazing winner of major championships. Where does this rank right here in your career?
SUZANN PETTERSEN: I mean, can you ask for more? The last putt to win the Cup, when it's that close? History was just made, to win here in front of the Scottish -- this crowd, to be here most of all. I could never in a million miles dream (indiscernible). This is it.
Q. How were you able to hit so many great shots down those last three holes? And in particular that shot from 89 yards and that putt -- how were you able to fixate and get it done?
SUZANN PETTERSEN: You just sort of trust it, coming down there. I mean, I played really good golf the last few days. I have an amazing team. And I just tried to rock it today (indiscernible), really tried to get a point on the board. And look at this, this is crazy.
Q. It's appropriate that you got it done. (Indiscernible) change so many young players to see a stalwart like you.
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Thank you.
Q. Can you even talk through that moment? What was going through your head there?
SUZANN PETTERSEN: I just remember (indiscernible) Mikey (indiscernible) was going straight. And from then on -- I hit it. It was a left-center putt, and I felt it came off exactly where I needed it.
Q. (Indiscernible) the right decision to holing the winning putt. Just incredible.
SUZANN PETTERSEN: I've been on the best team ever. They told me earlier (indiscernible), gotta trust that you're good enough.
Q. Solheim Cup, this noise right now at this moment, every bit as good as it gets?
SUZANN PETTERSEN: This is it. This is the last you'll see of me playing in the Solheim. I can't express it any better. I mean to hole the winning putt, for the winning putt. Nothing beats the Solheim Cup in my career. A championship, to be able to win as a team --






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT