ANA INSPIRATION
April 2, 2017
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How tough was the final round?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: It was a great final round.  Lex and I had a great match going there.  Both played really well.  We both played well all 18.  Disappointing not to make birdie on the last to join that playoff.  That's all I can think about right now.   
 Q.  How much of a distraction was the rules decision?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: You know, it's one of those things, I said to my caddie, let's deal with it when we're done.  We've still got six, seven holes to play.  Unfortunately it is what it is.  I thought Lexi fought back really, really hard.  Just shows what a character she is.  That's a tough one to get right in your face.  But she dealt with it and she came out on the strong side.   
 Q.  What do you think about viewers being able to call in like that?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: I don't even know what happened.  I was just told what had happened.  How it happened, I have no clue.  But it is what it is.  She's now in a playoff, so she's still capable of winning this.   
 Q.  When you were out there, I know there was some confusion as to actually what did happen.  What was your reaction to the penalty?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: I didn't really -- I thought it was something more than just like a warning for slow play, when you have two rules officials come up to talk to a player.  At the time I just let them kind of talk it out.  I was told on the tee what had happened.  I heard four-shot penalty, felt a little bit bad for her.   
I thought she took it with the character she is.  She fought back with birdies, and she's a true class of Lexi of taking that -- we played fantastic, both of us, final day, major, it's all in the line and you get that right in the face after 12 played holes.  For her to come back with the birdies, I think it just shows what a character she is.  Hopefully she can go out and win this, because that's what she deserves.   
 Q.  It was obviously difficult for her.  How difficult was it for somebody like you chasing the title, because it obviously throws you off, knowing what she's going through, as well?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: The crowd is against me and people want to pull for Lexi, but that is what it is.  I really hope that people would have done the same for me if that was me in her situation.  I tried to tell her, like stand up, make birdies and go win this.  I really hope she does now.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT