LONGS DRUGS CHALLENGE
October 9, 2008
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JASON TAYLOR: Suzann, thanks for joining us. 4-under on the day, two shots back from the leader after the first round. I know not the finish you wanted, but just talk about your round.
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: No, today was another solid round on the golf course. I tried to be aggressive where you can be aggressive around this golf course. 
 Of course not the way I wanted to finish it off, but I still think I hit a fairly good putt. Mostly a misread, so...
 Just tried to give myself plenty of opportunities. Just really enjoying myself out there. Trying to hit some different shots to different pins and, no, very happy. 
 JASON TAYLOR: Good. All right, questions. 

 Q. How are the conditions out there, did you think? Seemed like the afternoon was going to be tougher as far as the wind started coming up a little bit around noon. How did you think it was out there?
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I don't know if it's actually that much tougher, because it dries up and probably plays a little shorter. The par-5s are -- even though it's a little bit more windy you can still get a bit more out of your drives. 
 The greens are getting a little harder. Some of the greens, of course, No. 4, is not really a par-4 you need downwind to try to hole the green. 
 It's definitely picking up to very similar conditions like it was last year. In the afternoon it was also a little bit warmer and the ball flies a little bit further. I mean, it's kind of -- it equals out, I think. 
 But a good round of golf, and three more days. 

 Q. That's a pretty good start, though, right, for yourself? Defending champion and you come out and you're right up there very close. In your mind, is that a good way to...
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah, as I said, I kind of played my way along. I mean, I wasn't really close to having any bogeys, but you want to try to make it bogey-free. Just that 3-putt on the last was a little bit annoying, but I'm not going to pay much attention to that. 
 What can I say? It's a good start. Maybe a couple better could have been perfect, but you never know what perfect is going to be. 
 JASON TAYLOR: All right. 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Perfect. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT