GINN TRIBUTE HOSTED BY ANNIKA
May 30, 2008
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   SUZANN PETTERSEN: Birdie on 11, hit it on the green in two, tap-in birdie.   
 13, hit a wedge from about 120 and had like a 20-footer.   
 14, 6-iron to about 20 feet and knocked that one in.   
 16, I hit a gap wedge from about 100 to eight feet.   
 1, I hit a 9-iron from about 125 to 15 feet and knocked it in.   
 2, I 3-putted from 20 feet.   
 3, I hit it on the green in two and 2-putted.   
 6, gap wedge from about 85 to six feet and knocked it in.   
 9, I hit a gap wedge from about 100 to eight, nine feet.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Suzann, thanks for coming in, heck of a round out there, 7-under puts you right in the hunt for the weekend. If you would just talk about how you played today.   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yesterday I was not happy at all with how my score came out. I knew kind of what I had to adjust and today I felt much better, tried to be a little bit more aggressive.   
 It feels like I'm hitting my irons pretty good and a lot of times just take dead aim and not be scared of missing it left-to-right and of course I made a lot more putts today than I did yesterday, so that's the key to shooting low scores.   
  
  Q. You mentioned some adjustments, can you be a little more specific on what you tried to work on today?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Little technical stuff. Yesterday came from Europe on Monday and was tired, so a few sloppish things maybe and need to tighten them up. It's nice when you kind of know what you're doing wrong; you can adjust it straightaway on the course, and that's pretty much where I am right now.   
 So I'm feeling pretty good about my game.   
  
  Q. What's it going to take to win this weekend?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I don't know, if the conditions stay like this, anyone can shoot low, so the greens are fairly soft and very receptive. You can fire straight at it and the ball is not going to go anywhere. So you've got to shoot low to get the job done this weekend. But it's right out there, I just shot 7-under and feels like I left a few out there.   
  
  Q. The win in Switzerland, does that give you added confidence on how you're playing now?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Of course, part of the trip going over there is to go over there and win, and that's the plan, but then you have to get the job done. At the same time, I really -- my game really came together last week. I tried to go as low as I could and 22-under for three rounds, that's going to give you a lot of confidence.   
 That's why I was so disappointed yesterday with 1-under; the game is right there, and today I shoot 7-under. So, I feel very good.   
  
  Q. Did you bring your trainer with you, and does he have some sort of local ties?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Well, yeah, he left yesterday, but we got some hard, bloody work done early this week, so I don't have to do all that hard stuff next week.   
 Yes, he's from South Carolina, he is local here. We had dinner at a local restaurant the other day.  
  
  Q. After such a great season last year, what was sort of your mind-set building on that as you came into this season?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I mean, most of all I know I can get the job done, and you don't have to play perfect golf to get the job done. Sometimes it might feel nasty but you get the job done. You don't always have to strike the ball 100%.  
 It's about playing what you have that week and accept what you have and go and move on from there. But I think my game is much better this time this year than it was this time last year.   
  
  Q. The back injury a few years ago, was that a cumulative thing with the golf swing or something like you stepped in a hole?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I wish I helped in a hole. No, I think it was a little bit of everything: Hard training, golf swing, you do this a lot, it's not like you hit a golf ball once a week. We are trying -- I mean, we overdo a lot of what we do to try to become the best we can be.   
 My body just said thank you and I've had enough for a little while. At the same time, I tried to enjoy the time I was injured because I mean, not that I want to be injured, but you've got to do the best out of what the situation gives you. I got to spend a lot of time being a normal girl. So I had a nice couple of months there just feeling like a regular girl not playing golf.   
  
  Q. Does it ever bother you anymore or do you ever get to a point where you realize you need to stop and slow down a little bit?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: It definitely made me learn more about my own body. I know when the signal comes and how I'm going to handle them. It's an every day effort. It's like brushing my teeth. I do my exercises, for the back and the spine and if I get sloppy it will sneak in and then I'll have to start doing it again. It's like every day work.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT