MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 6, 2008
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: Alright. Suzann, thanks for coming in. Back to the spot where you won your first tournament last year.  
 Can you just talk about what it's like to be back in Williamsburg at the Michelob Ultra Open?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: It's been fantastic coming back. Everyone has been so friendly in welcoming me back and wishing me all the best for this week, and I played all 18 holes. The course is in great shape.  
 The rough is tough so that will be a little tougher than last year, but a lot of fond, good memories from last year and what can I say? Just looking forward to start playing.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: You switched equipment this year. Started off a little slower than you would have liked but came back, with two back-to-back Top 3s in April, only a couple weeks ago.  
 Are you still feeling good about your game right now?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah. My game is good. There's a plan to what we're trying the achieve. Just got to be disciplined. Sometimes it clicks easier, other times it takes longer but I believe in what I do and I think it's the right thing. As long as that's the key, then you just keep the patience.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: Questions?  
  
  Q. Your working with a Vision 54 people. What are you guys working with? What are you working on with that?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I don't know. It's such a broad spectrum what you can work on it. I mean -- I mean there's like endless subjects but for me, it's try to narrow it down to help my focus while I'm on the golf course.  
 So, I have always had stuff to do that keeps me busy, to not let my mind start wandering off. That's probably the easiest way to explain that.  
 I mean that could be like different things every week but it will keep me focused and keep me from losing my thoughts so I can -- I'm more in control of what's going through, what's going on up in the head.  
  
  Q. What made you really want to work with them? Did you just feel like that might be a switch that would work?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Well, I've been working with a lot of mental coaches before, growing up. I use some very good people, very knowledgeable people back home in Norway that other athletes use. But, I felt it was limited because they weren't that into golf, the game of golf.  
 So I mean every time I picked up the phone I felt like I had to explain like how I felt because it's hard for them to see how my world, as having never been here or seen it.   
 So then I thought maybe it's better if I get somebody who knows the game, is around us like every now and again, they know what's going on, they know what kind of issues we're dealing with week in, week out and then, I mean, they have a great resume.  
 Went there and kind of liked what they were teaching and, of course, the chemistry has to be there.  
  
  Q. Where are they based?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: They're based in Phoenix.  
  
  Q. This is the first time you've come to a tournament as the defending champion.  
 Does it feel any different this week coming here in?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Except seeing myself on all the posters, no. I have a lot of good memories from here. I'm just trying to enjoy myself, enjoy this good time and I'm ready to go.  
  
  Q. I know there's some great traditions of jumping in the lake and all. What was the beer bash like?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Was a bit stinky when I got to my room (laughter). No, I mean this was a great win. This is one of my favorite courses.   
 I think it's a favorite course of a lot of players out here, just the layout, how it sits. For me it's how the course -- I mean it just fits my eye.   
 Like every hole is kind of -- it's different, it's a different challenge, great golf holes, great conditions and it's just one of those weeks where you really want to play well.  
 It was kind of a cool thing last year. It's a good golf course. You got to play well to pull it off here. So other than that, I mean I love this place. It always reminds me of a little bit back home, the air, the trees. It's great facility and just enjoying my time here.  
  
  Q. If you came in July you wouldn't probably say that.  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: That's what I'm saying. This time of the year is perfect.  
  
  Q. Is there a course that reminds you of Norway?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: No. This is ten times better than any course back home. Just the grass, trees. It's the air. It's a little bit close to what I kind of grew up playing on instead of that bermuda down in Florida.  
  
  Q. When you come to a course that you won on, more confidence, more visual picture, "I did this last year, made birdie here"?  
 Do you have a much better feel, more confident when you're on a course that you've won at?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I don't know. Since last year there's a lot of stuff that I've improved on since last year and I don't want to compare myself to last year because I feel better than I was last year.  
 But coming back to a place where you know, I mean you have done it before, of course that helps you with your confidence.  
 Playing the back 9, I remember a lot of the shots I hit and standing on 18 and practicing my putting. First thing I did was to go over and re-putt the first putt I missed in the playoff to see if I got the line right this year.  
 Of course, you have some good memories and -- but I mean most of all, it's a new week. I think everyone out here has improved since last year and you've got to play it better and just got to stay focused and try to get the job done and see where it leads you on Sunday.  
  
  Q. Don't you think you played 18 enough last year?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah. I still play it this year in the practice round.  
  
  Q. Suzann, you changed caddies a couple weeks ago. How is that going and why did you change?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: When I change something in my team, I do it for a purpose and what I felt was missing -- I mean I had a great year with my old caddy, we had some fantastic wins but it felt like I need a little bit more experienced guy, little bit more mature and has -- I don't know.   
 Greg just knows his business and he's always prepared, he's always there to help me and that makes me very comfortable being on the course and having him around, it makes me very calm and I know the support is right there if I need it.  
  
  Q. Did you already know him or just --  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Playing out here -- no didn't know him that well. Just in the process of kind of getting to know each other. But a great guy, very good as a caddy. Like I said, he knows his business and I think that's what I kind of need to kind of try to chase those two ahead of me in the world rankings.  
  
  Q. How do you end up making the caddy switch like that? Who gets in touch with who? How did you --  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I usually go on E Bay and see who is available for the cheapest price (laughter).   
 This time I was looking for a little bit different. No. I mean this is a hard -- this is all a business for all of us out here. Everyone -- this is my job, their job and for many -- was a caddy for Brittany and they weren't working together and they were splitting up just around the time I was kind of looking.  
 So I mean it's always like lucky, that time of the year. He actually became available and I was looking for a new one and he was one of the guys I would like to have on my bag.  
 Usually the best ones are usually occupied.  
  
  Q. No matter how much success you have, as a player/caddy combination, is there a certain shelf life where it's just not going to work after, say, X number of years?   
 Can you imagine having a caddy for 10, 12 years like maybe a few players, maybe Annika has or --  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah. I don't swap caddies just to swap the caddies if they work and the relationship is kind of working both ways,.  
 You got to respect each other. You got to respect me as much as I respect him, and I mean I mean I'm always looking for a long-term caddy when I change.  
 Before I had Greg I had a more fresh, young guy that I thought would be good because he would be hungry and kind of working hard and I can kind of be a part of building his routines and that was working great but all of a sudden I felt like no, I need someone who has a bit more -- who is a bit more mature in a way.  
 Of course, my game improves every week, every year -- that's my mom. I'm sorry. It's like -- what can I say?   
 Look at Phil Michelson. I think he's had the same caddy since he first turned pro. Get to know each other very well. But you have to make sure you don't step over the line, that it gets too close.  
 Ideally you want to have a long-term relationship working for sure.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Alright. Good luck this week. Go talk to your mom.  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT