ANA INSPIRATION
April 1, 2017
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  4-under 68 in the third round; how did you feel out there today?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Well, today was a little bit of everything.  I feel like I played better tee to green than the first two days, but hung in there and kind of managed to get some late birdies in.  Very happy to shoot 4-under today.  That's all I needed.  Lexi is playing well today again.  But for me to shoot 4-under today felt -- it feels quite satisfying.   
 Q.  You're only two back headed into the final round.  What's your mindset?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: I'm just glad there's another round because I feel like there's a lot more good golf in me.  Conditions today were probably a little bit more windy than we expected, so I mean, I wouldn't say it was easy, but this course sure is playing tough with the rough, but if you miss it in the right spot, you can get away with it, and that's what I did a couple times.   
 Q.  You've played so well here so many times and come so close; what's your relationship, so to speak, with the course?  Is this a place you really like and you think that you should win here?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: I think I've always said since the first time I saw this place it really fits my eye.  I'm driving the ball well, and that's a major key on this golf course, and if you do, you can kind of attack it, as well.  So far, so good.  I've got a big job to do tomorrow.  I mean, the leaderboard is packed behind me, as well.  You've got to expect to go out there and shoot low.  There's a lot at stake, but I'm all in for it.   
 Q.  Having to adjust with all the rounds being scrambled as they were and everything, how do you approach that?  Is it just grind it out, or are there things you do to kind of compensate or what?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Just try to play golf when you're out on the course.  When you can rest, you rest.  The draw I was in looked to be on the wrong side to start and ended up being probably on the better side since we didn't have to come back out two early mornings.  But I think the draw overall was pretty fair played.  I think it was pretty equal.  And today everyone had pretty much the same conditions.   
Exciting day tomorrow, and like I said, I feel good.  My game feels great, so I can't wait.   
 Q.  What are your expectations for tomorrow?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: My expectations for tomorrow?  To get wet.  (Laughter.)   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT