GINN OPEN
April 17, 2008
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Thanks for coming in and joining us today. Great round out there, 4-under par. Your name is up on the leaderboard. You're currently tied for second place. Can you talk about how you played and what kind of round you posted?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I mean, I felt pretty good warming up. I felt that this was probably as receptive as the greens would be playing early, and they were still a little soft, so took a little advantage of that, having good control of the ball coming into the greens.  
 Other than that, I mean, I had some good chances and just tried to be aggressive on the holes where you can really stay aggressive, and par is a great score on some of those holes out here.  
 And the wind kind of gusted and dropped a little bit at the end there.   
 This course is playing pretty tough with the greens and how they're rolling and how firm they are. They're really dry, so you've really got to think twice before you think what kind of shot you want to approach with and see what kind of control you can kind of maintain over the ball.  
 THE MODERATOR: Let's go over your scorecard before we start with questions. The birdie on the 2nd hole?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: That was a little 7-iron to about five feet.  
 Birdie on 3, I hit my second shot to the front of the green, chipped it within six feet and made that putt.   
 Bogey on 6, just hit it -- was embedded in the fairway bunker so just got it up-and-down, had probably a 12-footer for par and missed that.   
 Bogey on 8, hit my 7-iron just short and just didn't get up-and-down, and I missed a six-footer for par.  
 Birdie on 10, I hit 70-yard sand wedge to two feet.   
 Birdie on 11, a little 9-iron to about ten feet.   
 Birdie on 14, a gap wedge from about 105 to tap-in.  
 Birdie on 15, a little sand wedge from about 70 to tap-in.  
 Bogey on 16, I three-putted from just the front of the green, and I missed probably like a six-footer for par.  
 Birdie on 17, I hit it in the greenside bunker in two and got up-and-down within a tap-in.   
  
  Q. It sounds like your short game was really working. Just talk a little bit about that, a lot of tap-ins, I guess that can give you some momentum?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah, I was just hitting the right shots at the right time on some of those holes and had a lucky break. You've just got to kind of play with -- some of those holes you play for the ball to bounce like ten yards. You just kind of hit the shot you're trying to produce to see what kind of control you can maintain over the ball as far as kind of -- the greens are going to get firmer and firmer and it's going to be harder and harder, and the fairways are super-firm. It's not like you -- that's hard and the greens are hard, so you try to hit it hard off the ground and it's very hard to control it.   
 I tried to take advantage of some of the short par-4s, and the par-5s was pretty good. No, it was a good start, very good start.   
  
  Q. When you combine firm fairways and firm greens and then you factor in the wind, talk about all that as far as the mindset?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: It's very challenging. I mean, you just have to accept you might hit a good shot and you might be 30 feet from the pin. So you will have some good breaks and you will get some bad breaks probably on these greens. Best to hit every shot perfect. You just have to accept it.   
 Sometimes like a two-putt is a good score on certain holes, so get to the green and get your par and get out of there.  
  
  Q. Did you have problems with the wind or no?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Today was probably not as strong as it's been at past couple days, and it's supposed to drop. Now it's kind of gusty, dropping. It's not as hard as it was yesterday. It's very playable, but I mean, it's tough out there.   
  
  Q. What are some of the pros and cons of playing at home when you're here all week, in your own bed and all that? Are there distractions there?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I think it's very distracting. You get home and there's always stuff to do. Usually you get to the hotel, you can relax and watch TV. Here, as soon as you walk in the door, the house for me is like -- I have a list this long, and it's like I can't cross it out this week. But it's always in the back of your head.   
 I'm just trying to do as little as possible. First priority is getting enough sleep. It's nice to be here and I can work with my trainer, work with my physio like I do during my off weeks, so I always maintain how the body feels.  
  
  Q. Are you throwing a party or anything?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I'm trying not to, no. I'm just a guest. I have my mom cooking, so I'm just trying to be as under-noticed as possible. It's really nice to stay at home. But at the same time if you're at home yourself, there's always stuff to do. There's positives and negatives about being at home.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thanks for your time.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT