KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 6, 2008
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Thank you for coming in and joining us today. Such a great rally you made this weekend, you continued your great play today, can you talk about what the last couple of days have meant to you? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: After I made the cut, just tried to do the best out of the situation and had like 10-under in my head, if I can do that in two rounds that would be good. 
 I know it's tough but I made one bogey in 36 holes and 11-under, I'm very happy. I just wish I played better on the first to days then I could have given Lorena a little more challenge but next time. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Let's go over your scorecard. 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: 1, it was like 35 with an 8-iron to tap-in. 
 Then hit the green almost in two and just putted off the fringe and that was like a 2-footer for birdie. 
 5, I hit my 4-iron off the tee in the bunker and didn't get up-and-down. 
 7, a little 6-iron from about 145 to ten feet. 
 8, a 6-iron to about ten feet. 
 12, a 9-iron from about 130 to five feet. 

 Q. Did you know kind of as the day went on where Lorena was and that she was pulling away? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: No, I didn't really follow. But I mean, the only thing I could do today was go out and try to shoot low and hopefully she will make some mistakes coming down the stretch. 
 Lorena, she played great today and she deserved to win and we just tried to give her a challenge. 

 Q. How much tougher was it today?
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I have never seen this course windy over four days. There's so many hard shots, the putts, and the greens getting kind of much firmer. 
 It was tough. I mean, for me to shoot 11-under on the weekend, I'm very happy. 

 Q. What will you learn from this weekend going forward? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I mean, it shows that every day is a new day. What you did yesterday, you can't do anything about, and that's why even though I didn't shoot that many good scores the first two days, I still feel like I played my game, it was kind of frustrating. I was standing on Friday trying to practice my putting which sounded like I didn't make any putts, and then you don't score, but to go from zero when I got out on Saturday and just start all over. 
 Just got to work hard in the beginning and all of a sudden you get on a roll and all of a sudden things starts to flow a little bit more. Every day is a new day and you have to take whatever the course gives you that day. 
 So I mean, it shows that just making the cut at a major, you could potentially win even being ten back. It just proves again that that rule is very much alive, I would say. 

 Q. Have you thought about what it's going to be like to defend the McDonald's Championship? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: It's going to be fun. I can't wait. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT