KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 2, 2008
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ASHLEY CUSHMAN: This tournament sparked off what was an incredible 2007 season where you strung together five wins, second most to the No. 1 player on Tour. Can you talk about coming back here, first major of the year and kicking things off again?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yes, I'm excited to be here. I have very good memories from here. Last year was a very good tournament and began my turnaround for the year and turned out to be something positive. I have so many good memories seeing the course again, being here and being present and just happy to be here.  
  
  Q. What did you learn particularly on Sunday; what did you learn about yourself or your game that helped you carry on after this?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I mean, being in a position to win on the Sunday, you all learn stuff. If you stay in contention every week, sooner or later you'll find out what you need to get the job done.   
 Walking down 16 today I was a bit disappointed because they cut down a bit of that tree I was in on the right side. I mean, why not just move it? But they halved it, so maybe I have a chance this year.  
  
  Q. Do you think you were able to win your first major last year, had it not been for your experience here 12 months ago?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: That's a hard question. For me it's all about winning tournaments; if it's a major or not -- of course a major ranks more than a regular tournament, but for me I'm just trying to stay in contention and be there on Sunday, and hopefully get a few wins.   
 But I learned a lot from what happened here last year. It was a bit hard to take straightaway, but I mean, a couple of days later, I was still quite happy and I had my best finish on Tour two weeks straight, and it kind of kept me going. I got my revenge at Kingsmill quite soon after. No, I'm ready.   
  
  Q. How are the new clubs?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: My clubs are great. I have a driver that I love, irons are great, new irons last week. My pizza pie hopefully is getting warm again this week.   
 I don't know, this week is all about getting in position off the tee and giving yourself a lot of chances to attack certain pins. I mean, I like to practice. You always see me on the ranges.  
  
  Q. Have you had difficulties adjusting to the new set of clubs?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: No, I've had great support and great help from the Nike team. It wasn't that hard. The hardest thing was changing clubs and ball at the same time, the two control factors that I knew I've had for a long time. But once I adjusted, now I think it's better than what I've had, so I'm happy.   
  
  Q. You made the joke about the trees on 16; have you been able to look back on last year and been able to have a sense of humor about it? Have the memories become better through time? Looking back now, it seems like you have a different view.   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I mean, I'm one year older, that's going to help, too. A bit more calm than I was a year ago. I'm more experienced than I was a year ago. I have more shots in the bag than I had a year ago.   
 I'm developed. I didn't sit down and do anything for a year. I tried to improve my game and what happened last year is history. I can't do anything about it. I get in the same position this week, maybe take another club or do something different. But you try to grow all the time. I'm not the person who wants to sound still. I want to improve.   
 I think just being one year older helps us.   
  
  Q. Have you watched Sunday's round on TV from last year?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: No, I actually don't think I have. I don't think I've seen one clip from last year. Not that I have to, either. There's a lot of other clips that I can watch that was much more successful.   
  
  Q. When the year is going to be over and nobody will be able to ask you about it anymore; are you excited -- I'm sure you got tired of people asking about the same thing. So are you excited to be back at the tournament and the reporters will stop asking you about it?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I actually thought it would be the end of it after I won my second -- first I won Kingsmill and I thought, now maybe they can shut up; and then I won the McDonald's and they are like: "What about the collapse?" It was still the collapse; that was the most interesting thing to talk about.   
 Hopefully something else is going to happen this week, good stuff, that can bring all your attention.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Thanks for your time, Suzann, and good luck this week.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT