ADT CHAMPIONSHIP
November 14, 2007
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Thank you, everyone, for coming.  Suzann, thank you again for joining us.  You had three wins in four events, three wins in October alone, including back-to-back wins in Korea and Thailand, so it was a pretty amazing run.  You've had a couple weeks off to rest and now you're getting ready to go today.   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN:  Yes, absolutely.  It's about getting the last little bit out of you this week.  It will be tough, it will be exciting, it will be challenging with the wind on this course, and it will probably be quite intense.   
 I'm rested, I feel good, my game feels good, so I'm looking forward to getting started, and I'll try to get through Friday first, taking a few steps.   
  
  Q.  Are you motivated to be No. 1 in the world, and has this little run maybe escalated or intensified your drive for that?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN:  I don't think it has intensified.  I think it has just made me realize that I can do it.  I mean, you play well, you win tournaments, you get a lot of confidence.  I think it's going to be a while before I can -- before any of us are going to catch Lorena, but we have to start somewhere.  It feels like I've made a good effort this year.   
 It's one more event and then I can kind of relax and enjoy what a great year I've had.   
 But right now I'm just trying to finish off a great year in a good way, and that's my focus.  Then sure, the long-term plan is to be No. 1, but it's going to be a little while.   
  
  Q.  And just to follow up, after having trouble at that first major, could you just put into perspective this year and how far you came from that moment?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN:  Well, even though I didn't win that tournament, I finished second, and second place at that time was still a good achievement for me.  I had two second places in a row.   
 So when I got some time and I looked back, it was still a very good achievement.  But it also made me realize, like really realize, that I was capable of pulling off and winning a tournament.   
 And then a few weeks later I win Kingsmill, and I step up on the tee at McDonald's, less expectations, I already won my first one, did all the things I did wrong at Nabisco right, and I won McDonald's.  So it's a learning curve.  You learn from your mistakes.  You're not going to learn if you always make everything right because you make mistakes, it makes you think, it makes you evaluate, and hopefully you get something good out of it.   
  
  Q.  Karrie was in here yesterday, and she had a lot of nice things to say about you, but she also felt you were maybe a bit of an underachiever the last few years.  I'm wondering if you agree with that assessment, and what is the difference in your game now than previous years?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN:  Well, I've had a lot of ups and downs.  Most of the downs have been my health.  It hasn't been my game.  So that has kind of -- that's what it's felt like that's held me back.  This year I've been healthy.  I had a great off-season last year, and then all this year I felt good, no pains, no aches.  So I think that's the first thing.   
 And then from there you build.  I've had time, I've had chances to train as hard as I want and push my body, because you have to push yourself to be the best out here.  You can't just do like average work.  Every session has to be with the quality that you want it to be and kind of -- I mean, health-wise I think that's the most -- I don't know, it's probably the biggest thing for me this year.   
 It's always hard when you wake up, and you're like, uh-oh, my back hurts today, so okay, no practice today.  You feel bad when you know your competitors are going out working every day.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT