MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 9, 2007
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Overall you're 1-under on the day, which in this wind is a pretty good accomplishment, I know you kind of had a long wait, you teed off at 2:40 in the afternoon.  How did you keep yourself focused on the day. 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN:  I just tried to stay out as late as I could last night, much longer than I usually do to see how long I could sleep in.  I had breakfast and went back to the room and three hours before I go back to the course.  It's a little bit different.  You probably get a tee time like this in the British Open but you don't expect it to be this late. 
 You get what you get.  It was a tough day, but I mean, I kept grinding and I knew -- I know you don't have to play perfect to get around.  I hit some good shots.  I hit some half-decent shots, and then you make some putts and then you just try to stay and keep that momentum and you hit some good shots. 
 It's been a long day, and it's going to be an early night. 
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  That's great.  Can we go over your scorecard? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN:  2, I hit a 3-wood from about 240 on to the green.  I don't know, I think it was maybe 20 feet and 2-putted. 
 Then 4, I hit a little gap wedge from about 90 yards to eight feet and made that. 
 Then 6, I made a bogey.  I missed the fairway left.  I missed the par putt from about seven feet. 
 Then 8, I bogeyed.  I hit my 3-wood out to the right and kind of missed a 5-footer for par. 
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  What club did you hit into the green on 6 and 8? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN:  On 6, I had an 8-iron.  On 8, I tried to get to the green with a 3-wood. 
 Then 11, I hit a driver and then I had about 250-ish to the green and I hit a 3-wood to, I don't know, eight, ten feet and made that. 
 Then I had a double on 13.  I missed my driver left.  I had to drop and missed -- 2-putted for a double.  It was about 20 feet.  I hit a 5-iron in. 
 My birdie on 17, I hit a little 5-iron to, I don't know, 12, 15 feet maybe. 

 Q.  Are you happy with where you are? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN:  Oh, yeah, absolutely.  I mean, there's one more day and you're still in good position and I'm one better than I was yesterday. 
 I'm right where I want to be.  So I feel pretty good. 

 Q.  Do you know Min? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN:  No.  I don't even know -- I don't think I've -- I don't know. 

 Q.  Have you ever played in a final group of any tournament in your life with somebody you've never heard of in your life? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN:  I've probably seen her when I see her, but by name, there's so many of them.  It's so hard to keep track of them.  I'll probably see her when I see her on the first tee. 
 It doesn't really matter who you play with.  It's a two ball; it's going to go hopefully in four hours.  So you just try to get around in a decent time. 

 Q.  How much does it matter that you're in the final group? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN:  Well, I was in the final group at Nabisco, as well, so in the final group at two majors so far this year.  What I learned from that is like, you don't have to hit every shot perfect.  You are going to hit some good shots.  You are going to hit some bad shots.  Overall, if you stay positive and you stay and just try to grind, good things will happen.  So it was a bit of a learning process today.  Just try to stay there and long day and you're tired, you can just smell the dinner coming at the table.  No, it's going to be fun. 

 Q.  How important will experience be tomorrow? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN:  Oh, I think it will be a little factor.  I think whoever putts the best -- there are a couple of players who are in a good position.  There's no obvious outcome tomorrow. 
 But I want to definitely be a part of it when it comes down to the final stretch on the back nine tomorrow.  So try to get off to a good start.  We'll see how it feels tomorrow and we'll take it from there. 

 Q.  When the tee shot on 6 went to the left and you hit the 3-wood went over the green, did that upset you at all? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN:  Well, I don't know how to hit it right on 8, that's pretty hard when the wind is gusting.  I didn't analyze it and I actually didn't put too much effort into it.  I just tried to make par from wherever I was.  That's a part of my mental game, just let it peel off. 
 I think I'm pretty happy with how I approached the game today, and every day is not going to feel great.  So you have to play with whatever you have. 

 Q.  On 11, is that one of the best you've had for a long time, that drive? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN:  I've never been close to reaching that green.  But in the Pro-Am, I hit a pretty good drive there and it was probably a little helping wind and I hit my 3-wood to about three feet short of the green.  I know it was pretty hard and so I hit my drive like 310,320, I would have a chance.  I hit a great drive and a great second shot and I got a nice read from Karrie. 

 Q.  Was that important for you to get that eagle at that point for the round? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN:  Sure.  It was a nice -- I would take that any day. 

 Q.  How late did you stay up last night and how are you going to pass the time tomorrow because you're teeing off at the same time tomorrow. 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN:  Yeah, I mean, put money on it that you are going to wake up earlier than you usually do when you sleep in.  I woke up at six the first time and I managed to fall back to sleep.  I tried to stay up until midnight at least, and that's so far past my bed time usually.  I mean, I'm the early-early bed girl when I'm out here. 

 Q.  Are you going to do anything differently tomorrow to past the time? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN:  No, I don't think so.  Maybe go to the gym, get my body going, the legs going get on the bike, stretch, do my exercises and then warm up and stretch and get ready for the warm up.  So you have your routine.  It's not hard to get the time going. 

 Q.  What's your normal bed time? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN:  My normal bed time?  I need at least eight to nine hours to feel great.  So if, I mean, tonight just have to turn the clock backwards when I need to get up.  But it's important to relax and to feel rested.  For me that's the main thing. 

 Q.  What did you do to stay up last night, watch a movie? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN:  I watched a stupid movie.  There was nothing to watch.  I don't know what it was called. 

 Q.  Do you remember an actor that was in it? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN:  Yeah, it was -- oh, shoot -- can you see how much -- it was a crap movie, I don't even remember who it was.  (Laughter). 
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Thank you.  Good luck tomorrow. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT