SYBASE CLASSIC PRESENTED BY SHOPRITE
May 16, 2007
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PAM WARNER:  Suzann, thanks for joining us.  You're coming off your first victory last week at the Michelob Ultra.  Start by talking about that. 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN:  It was an amazing feeling to stand there and be able to lift the trophy after so many attempts, and finally we made it, and it was truly special. 
 PAM WARNER:  Can you talk about your season so far?  You've had a great season so far. 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN:  Missed my first two cuts in Hawaii, and I was thinking I have to keep doing what I'm doing, and all of the sudden -- I don't know, I mean, all of the sudden the scores went down, and I started playing great, and I had a few good finishes that helped me probably control my feelings on Sunday.  So it's been a lot of fun and just have to keep doing what I'm doing. 

 Q.  Would you talk about the change going from last week to here and how your play reacts to that change? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN:  To be honest, I haven't played the course yet, so I'm really worried about the weather coming later, because I want to see how that goes.  But it's a great golf course, it's not too long, and I think it's a good change, I don't know.  I haven't heard any players say anything else. 

 Q.  Do you think that this course sets up well for you to keep your momentum from last week going into this weekend? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN:  Like I told you, I haven't seen the course.  How I feel with my game, I think I could play any course.  If you have the right information, you can get around the golf course. 

 Q.  Not so much the golf course, rather how you're playing mentally. 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN:  Yeah, I think it's how you feel about your game.  If you feel good about your game, you can play any course. 

 Q.  Are you finding the Tour being more competitive?  Are there more players who can win now? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN:  Absolutely.  I think there are more youngsters who can win.  You have them coming up, and they're ready to compete every week, so there is no surprise that you have youngsters coming up and winning. 
 It's nice to be a part of that kind of generation.  You have Juli Inkster and Morgan Pressel, what, 20 years difference?  It's pretty cool.  You don't find that in many sports. 

 Q.  I guess if you could talk about qualifying for the ATC, the LPGA moving to the whole play-off season and how you think you will fare? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN:  I don't know.  It's a nice bonus at the end of the year, and it's nice to have qualifiers; you don't have to think about that anymore.  Now I can get that out of way and focus on what I should do. 
 We talked about last week.  There are a couple more events in the first half, and it should take some pressure off to qualify, and it's cool to play for a million dollars cash! 
 PAM WARNER:  Any other questions?  You guys set?  Thank you, Suzanne. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT