KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 1, 2007
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MODERATOR:  Can we go over your score card? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Bogey on 3.  I was in the rough left, and I hit it into the green side bunker.  Hit my bunker shot about 20 feet and 2-putted for a bogey. 
 MODERATOR:  How far was the bunker shot, with what club? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN:  It was a sand wedge.  I don't know, 30-odd shot.  And then bogeyed 4.  I missed the fairway again.  Got it to the front of the green and chipped to, I don't know, 8-foot, and missed the putt.  Hit a 6-iron on the par 3 to 12 feet and made the putt. 
 And 8 I hit a 7-iron, I don't know, to four, five feet and made that putt.  On 8 or 9 I hit 6, my third shot, from about 185 pin to five feet again, I made that putt.  And then 11 I hit my third shot from 92 yards, hit it to four feet and hold that putt. 
 MODERATOR:  With what club? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN:  With a gap wedge.  Here comes the trouble.  15, I missed my driver right.  Chipped that and had a third shot from about 60 yards.  And I missed my putt, that was probably about 12, 15 feet. 
 And 16, I hit my driver right again.  My third shot came up short and I 3-putted from just in front of the green. 
 MODERATOR:  How far was that? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN:  I don't know.  My second putt was probably a 6, 7-footer. 
 MODERATOR:  Do you know what you started at? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN:  I don't know.  20 feet, maybe.  25 feet.  And then 17 I hit a 7-iron left in the rough.  Chipped it to 8-foot and missed my putt. 
 MODERATOR:  You're the second runner up in this many weeks.  Feels good, but I know you're still disappointed with that. 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN:  I don't know what to say.  I know yesterday if we didn't make the huge mistakes we would win.  I did a few too many on the back.  It's actually (indiscernible) disappointing finishing second, probably my personal best, when I was so happy last week for a second place.  But this time I felt like I lost the tournament.  Last week I felt like I won the second place. 
 So that's kind of the big difference here.  And I just didn't pull off the right thing at the right time.  I'm a little disappointed.  As time goes by I'll probably be quite happy with the two finishing runner up week-to-week, or back-to-back. 
 MODERATOR:  Do you feel like in the past two weeks you felt the fan support behind you?  What's that been like, still hearing the fans cheer for you? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN:  I had two great weeks.  I can't complain.  I've had a great test for my game.  This is what I needed.  I've been put under pressure.  I've been trying to hit the shots I've been practicing all winter.  It's just nice to actually get under the pressure early to see if what you actually changed will work. 
 I think it does.  And just very disappointed right now.  But I think as the day goes by I'll be -- I will look back and be quite happy with the second finish. 

 Q.  You obviously played so well through 14 holes.  What was your mind set on the 15th tee and what mechanically did you do something wrong on that and 16 in terms of pushing your 2-shot right? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN:  I'm just trying to do the same.  Maybe a little missed time on those tee shots.  I tried to, on the one on 16, if that hadn't hit that little brush, I think it would have been perfect. 
 But that's the difference.  These margins are small.  And I guess Morgan, I'm happy for her.  I hope I will get more chances.  I learned a lot from today. 

 Q.  (Off microphone) 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN:  I tried to hit it a little low.  Because everything slopes left into that green.  If you can't fly it.  So I just tried to aim -- I don't know if I was too greedy, but I saw the shot and it almost paid off.  Second shot. 
 So I don't know.  You just have to take chances, sometimes you win.  Sometimes you lose.  I don't know.  But I must say it's been two fantastic weeks.  And I'll be back. 

 Q.  (Question about 18th hole) 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN:  There was no chance.  That (indiscernible) was too bad.  I know I had to make a birdie.  When I walked off 17, my caddie said, "We're still in it."  I said, "No way.  They're leading at 4.  We need an eagle."  He said, "No, they're leading at 3.  We're still in it." 
 Then I hit a loose tee shot.  My driver has been my best friend all year and it just didn't work as good as it has been.  So I had no chance to go for the green.  And I was right on the limit to hit my full wedge, and I knew it was going to be just the right yardage if I catch it well. 
 And it was the right yards but too far left.  I hit my putt right on line, short.  So never ends. 

 Q.  You've been working with Pia and Lynn for a while.  What do you think has made the biggest difference in your game in terms of what they've taught you, not only in terms of the mechanics of the game but mentally, especially at this moment? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN:  I mean mechanics-wise it feels pretty solid.  So what I looked for when I went to see them the first time I was looking for somebody who could actually push me, try to get me to the next level, someone who knew the game, who knew what it was all about and know what the day-to-day life is all about. 
 Because you can always talk to other people like I've done in the past, but try to explain to them how it feels day in, day out on this tour, traveling week after week, that's tough.  For someone who hasn't been there, I don't think they can give you enough. 
 So that's when their names came up, and they've been in the business and they've been in golf for years.  They had good results.  And I really enjoyed working with them.  It has really helped. 

 Q.  When you came off the 16th, did you feel like you were still in control of, A, the tournament, and, B, your own emotions, or did you have a hard time keeping that sorted out? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN:  It's very disappointing having my first double on the 16 with three holes to go.  And you're right on the limit of -- you're right in there. 
 I still tried really good and kind of hit a good tee shot on the par 3, perfect club.  Hit it a little too hard, hit it left.  The chip shot was pretty good.  And I thought I had the putt; it was so close. 
 Wasn't my week this time either.  Last week I shot a great second round.  Today I had it going, just didn't finish it off.  So all credit to Pressel who finished like she did. 

 Q.  The third shot on 18, what yardage did you have there? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN:  I think like 102 yards.  It was slightly helping, which made me go for the 54, which I had like 100 yards.  But I know it's going to stop pretty quick.  It's not going to have a big bounce and then stop.  So it was right on the limit.  But it felt like that was the club that was going to get it closest to the pin. 
 But it wasn't quite good enough. 

 Q.  How long do you think that putt was? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN:  I don't know.  25 feet, maybe.  20 feet. 

 Q.  You're coming from a country which is a super power in winter sports.  Having grown up in Norway and playing golf and what does this actually mean?  I believe this means a little boost also for golf in Norway. 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN:  Yeah, golf is one of the biggest growing sports back home.  And we do have a winter eight months of the year.  Probably not that much.  If we're lucky we have five months good season.  So it's a lot of good junior plays coming up. 
 And I don't think it's a disadvantage being from where we are.  Sweden has produced top golfers over the past two, three decades.  And we are just right behind. 
 And a good thing with Norway is like you said, the winter sports are huge.  But we seem to kind of build on each sport and kind of combine and take advantage of what they have and what we can learn from them and the other way around. 
 So I think it's kind of a two-way dialogue.  And I think for me -- I mean my biggest idol, the Norwegian skiers. 
 For me it's a big, I don't know, it's good for me to see them do well because it makes me feel proud of them and kind of give me a kick.  But golf is getting bigger and bigger. 

 Q.  Could you talk about your emotions walking off the 18, meeting with Morgan? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN:  I mean, sure I'm disappointed.  I just wanted to get that ball in the hole on the last foot, to make sure I had a second-place finish. 
 I mean I guess my time will come.  I had a chance and this is probably the biggest chance I ever have.  It was a major on top of just the regular tournament, which probably makes it a bit more tense. 
 But I mean what can I say?  Second-place finish, last week I was happy.  This time I'm disappointed.  But (indiscernible) as the results go. 

 Q.  What physical emotion were you feeling when you were walking off? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN:  I'm disappointed.  It was right there.  You play with your heart.  Of course it's going to hurt when you can't pull the trigger when you want it the most. 

 Q.  As disappointing as it is, how do you take this and learn from it and use it as fuel for the next time, the next few times? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN:  I mean the worst thing you can do is actually get down on yourself and let it hurt you, because for me, like I said, when the evening comes and tomorrow comes, I'll be really happy.  It's been two great weeks.  And it's been -- last week felt like a pretest.  This was the real test. 
 And you just learn from everything and look at the positive things. 
 I turned the bad start into a great halfway.  And I just didn't play my best on the four, five last holes.  So for me, I learned a lot and I know what to improve.  But there was as many positive things as negative things. 

 Q.  The LPGA book says a little bit about you.  I was wondering what other things you do to get your mind off of golf.  You mentioned music and some other things.  Something personal about you that we don't know. 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN:  I don't know if I say skiing is my passion or if it's my job.  I just love skiing.  If I didn't play golf I think I would have been a skier.  So get away from golf and get up in the mountains and ski and be out in fresh air and enjoy yourself, that's probably my best relaxation. 
 MODERATOR:  Thank you for coming in.  Congratulations. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT