WENDY'S CHAMPIONSHIP FOR CHILDREN
August 20, 2004
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.   Talk about your round today.  What part of your game was good today?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:  Well, I'm hitting my irons quite close.  The one thing the whole year, and finally I'm right here, so I just kind of see the shot and then try to hit the shot I feel, and I've done that so far.
Q.   Reilley Rankin was in here a while ago and said that she was prepared for British Open weather when they went over there to play and didn't get it, and I wondered if it felt like that out there today for you, like playing in the British?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:  In the British you always expect it to be as bad as it can be.  I don't really care.  I'm from Norway.  We grew up playing golf in this weather, so for me, I almost can better swing in this weather than in 100 degrees and 90 percent humidity.  I guess everyone has their own thought about it.
Q.   You've had a good year.  Talk a little bit about the confidence you have right now as you go into the third round.
SUZANN PETTERSEN:  Well, I've been playing good for a while.  I've been hitting the ball solid, I've been working hard.  I've been playing my A game and I'm right up there, so I'm just trying to be patient and get something going.  No bogeys through 36 holes; that's pretty good.  Yesterday I hit 17 greens and all the fairways, so solid.  I think I'm really solid.
Q.   How were you playing in the practice rounds when it was in the 80s and it was high humidity?  Were you playing just as well as you've played the last two days or not?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:  Well, I mean, I'm just trying to repeat the things I'm doing all the time, and the more I can do that, the better it will be, so I just keep doing that.  Things have been good for a while, so I'm just going to keep doing it and keep working at it.
Q.   Can you take us over your score card?  Tell us about the four birdies today.
SUZANN PETTERSEN:  Yeah.  The par 5, not reachable for me, it was too wet, so a layup to 104 yards and hit a wedge into four feet, holed the putt.

9, left of the green second shot and then in     chipped to two feet, holed that putt.

No.  10, 7 iron in to six feet and holed that one.

Then on the par 4 I had a little 7 iron again to 15 feet, and I holed that putt.  I think that's it.
Q.   Now that you just heard the horn sound and what you said about sleeping in, are you a big fan of sleeping in?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:  Not really, but we were up quarter to 5:00 this morning.  Once again there you kind of keep it going.  Now I can kind of get some time off and prepare my brain for two new rounds.
Q.   How will you spend the rest of today and tonight?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:  Well, I don't know.  I would like to say shop, but I would like to hit a few balls and just get myself prepared for tomorrow, pretty much relax and take it easy.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT