HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 3, 2017
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Can you tell us about that start?
SUZANN PETTERSEN: You know, I played really good golf today.  I had two lousy bogeys coming in.  17 was a poor swing.  I think I would have been better off actually hitting first and not last, seeing the other ones.
But overall, the game is in really good shape.  Putted a lot better than yesterday.  Gave myself the same looks, so 5-under, two shots better than yesterday.  Just very glad where my game is at.
Q. There was some rain today.  Did you feel like you had to re-adjust after those showers?
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Not quite.  Just tried to stay try.  It's not going to be thunder and lightning, so they are not going to take you off the golf course.  You've just got to suck it up pretty much and stay dry.
Q. It's been said that the par 3s here play very difficult.  Your opinion?
SUZANN PETTERSEN: I think the course is in excellent shape.  I think there's a lot of great holes.  There's a good variety of holes.  All the par 3s are very different.  You're hitting different clubs.  So I think it's a great setup.
Q. And you're one of nine players who have played this event every year since it started in 2008.  What is it about this event that you love so much?
SUZANN PETTERSEN: I think it's more that I'm getting old, since I've been here so many years.  No, HSBC puts on a fantastic show for us and they always have.  They have been great for promoting women's golf all around the world.  This is definitely one of my favourite stops in Asia.  Never question coming back here.
Q. What happened on the holes you bogeyed?
SUZANN PETTERSEN: I think I only two par 3s.  17, I had a bad tee shot.  Got a bit stuck in-between clubs.  3-putted pretty much off the fringe on 15.  Other than that, the game is in really good shape.
Q. Going into the weekend, what will you be doing to chase the leaders?
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Just got to keep hitting greens.  Keep giving yourself a lot of opportunities.  I felt I had equally as many good opportunities yesterday.  Didn't capitalise on any of them pretty much.
8-under through two rounds, yeah, it's good.  Wish I could have taken back a couple of those dropped shots, but I'm going to have more opportunities coming my way on the weekend.
Q. Round of 67, but irritating coming down the closing stretch?
SUZANN PETTERSEN: For sure.  There are some good holes coming in, finishing it off, and a couple of lousy bogeys.  Dropped a couple of shots but hopefully within reach for the weekend.
My game is really good right now.  Giving myself a lot of looks.  A lot more putts dropped today than yesterday.  I think figured out a few things after the round yesterday, so I guess the experience is paying off.
Q. What's clicked between rounds one and two?
SUZANN PETTERSEN: You know, it's always small adjustments.  Last week we played really fast, undulated greens.  Messed with my setup a little bit.  Kind of adjusted that yesterday and felt I could start the ball much better today.  Just got to keep hitting a lot of greens out here, because if you can get the putter rolling, you can make a few birdies out here.
Q. Second event of 2017 and you got married in the off-season.  Congratulations.
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Sure did.  Thank you.
Q. You're both very sporty; do you ski with him?
SUZANN PETTERSEN: We golf for the most part, but I guess it's part of the deal that once we're done, there's going to be a lot more winter sports.  It was a fantastic wedding and it was all we could ask for.  Good friends, family, was all there.  I guess it's same life, different day.
Q. Are you going to be taking Duncan, your caddie, out for dinner?
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah, we're such good mates; so good time we spent around the golf course, we're going to equally spend around the dinner table.  I might be a tough one to work for, but I expect perfection and I expect the best from him, as well.  That was a little bit lousy on 17 from him and from me.  I actually think I would have been better off hitting first than last, having not seen what the other ones did and stuck to my own game plan better.  Two more days; we'll make for it.
Q. You're one off the pace, so you have to feel really good going into the weekend?
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Sure, it feels a little better, looking at that, and kind of -- I mean, out here, you should shoot 5- , 6-under, if your game is on spot.  So just got to keep grinding.  Hitting it really good.  Keep working on what I've done all winter and hopefully have a nice weekend here in Singapore.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT