THE SOLHEIM CUP
September 12, 2003
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MARTIN PARK:  Suzann, thank you very much for coming in.  Do you want to give us your thoughts of the day.  Two points out of two.  Pretty solid day.

SUZANN PETTERSEN:  Yes.  It was good.  We had a lot of fun.  We had a few good pairings out there.  We tried to go out there and have fun and just look forward.


Q.  A little bit disappointing not to be a couple more points ahead after this afternoon.  The matches could have gone either way really?

SUZANN PETTERSEN:  It was a shame to see Annika and Carin lose on the last.  But we had a good morning, but we need to keep it going through the afternoon.  I think we're all going to be pumped up tomorrow morning again.


Q.  When I look at you, you seem to enjoy match play.  Do you?

SUZANN PETTERSEN:  I really love it.  In match play I really feel like I can play my own game 110 percent.  I really like risking  -- it's like a risk and reward very often in match play.  You need to hole some crucial putts, and I've done that today.  I'm quite happy with my game.


Q.  Do you like the pressure as well with this environment?

SUZANN PETTERSEN:  Yeah.  More pressure.  Bring it on.  Absolutely.


Q.  What was your best part of the game today, your best part?

SUZANN PETTERSEN:  My short game is getting much much better.  One thing when you play strokes you always need to keep the ball in play, but today you're trying to hole every single shot, even the wedge from 100 yards.  You're trying to hole it. It's the sport to hole it if you have a good feeling.  And all the chips.  You go out there to do a job, and it's two of us.  You keep each other up.  You just try to have fun and play the ball.


Q.  Did you enjoy playing with Annika this morning?

SUZANN PETTERSEN:  It was good fun.  There's nothing better than getting a foursome really going.  That must be the best part, the best way to play.  If you get a foursome to really work out solid, it's great fun.


Q.  Was there any pressure to play with Annika?

SUZANN PETTERSEN:  No, not at all.  I know her quite well.  We're teammates.  We're out there really to encourage each other.  Our games are quite similar, so it's easy to fulfill each other's shots.


Q.  You're saying all the time that it's important to have fun on the course, but you don't look like you're having that fun.  You seem very concentrated and focused with a game face as well?

SUZANN PETTERSEN:  Yeah, yeah.  A lot of things are hiding behind this face.  I might look very serious and I'm very focused, I'm very into what I'm going to do.  But you always have this challenge, this battle going on in your head it's like really "Come on, it's like it's tight down left"  -- you play with the ball.  You have to risk to be rewarded.  That's the fun out there.  If you're going to play it safe all day, you're not going to win.  And I think all the European players play golf like that.  There are no players who actually just place it on the green and be happy with that.


Q.  Do you want to play twice tomorrow?

SUZANN PETTERSEN:  Whatever Catrin wants me to do, I will be there.  I'm here to play on the team, and I'm here to give my energy.  So whatever she decides, I'll be ready.

MARTIN PARK:   Thanks very much, Suzann. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT