THE SOLHEIM CUP
September 12, 2003
Suzann Pettersen
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Another 5 and 3 victory.  Does the margin of the victory matter?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I don't really think so.  A point is a point, but obviously it's nice to win.  And I think the bigger the number, the better the momentum.  I think Suzann and I play really good together.  I'm very pleased the way it turned out.


Q.  Let me go back over some familiar territory.  How does today compare to what happened at Colonial?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Of course this feels much better right now, the crowd, I must say. 


Q.  And how comfortable did you feel out there today?

SUZANN PETTERSEN:   It's always difficult to get a rhythm in a game when you're hitting every second shot.  I think we played solid, a few mistakes and we holed a few putts. 


Q.  You both seemed to complement each other very well.  What was the background into putting the two of you together?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I think our games are very similar, and I do believe we think alike on the golf course.  We complemented each other really well today.  We didn't hit it maybe our best.  When we needed to we made a putt or when we needed to we hit it close.  It was a good combination.


Q.  How good did it feel for you out there playing in the Solheim Cup for the first time in Sweden winning both of your first points?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Obviously it's nice to win.  But to play in front of the home crowd, you can feel how much they're pulling for us and they have been very supportive.  And I think the atmosphere is fantastic.  It makes it even more special.
  I don't really look at each place saying she's from the U.S. or she's from Korea. I look at every player as a player that I'd like to beat.  When it comes to the Solheim, I don't really think it's relevant.


Q.  (Inaudible.)

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I picked number 10 not too long ago.  So I guess that's my goal.


Q.  How many do you have now?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I've got 5 as of now.  I'm shooting for another 5.  I've got to get going.


Q.  (Inaudible. )

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I think it shows that we have so many different types of players on the U.S. tour.  We've got a lot of young ones like Lorena Ochoa who I believe is tough as well.  I think that's very exciting.  But then also on the international players tour there's got to be some player that somebody wants to root for.  I think that's exciting. 


Q.  Is Beth Daniels' record something you want to beat, being the oldest?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No.  There's some other records I'd like to beat.


Q.  But not that one?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No.  I admire, Beth and Juli Inkster, I admire them for winning tournaments and the way she wins Majors.  She's got a great family and great husband.  I admire that to be that age and still have the fire and the drive to work so hard.  It's not easy out here.  The competition is very tough.  I think Juli is a great example on hard work and dedication and still have a family on the side.


Q.  Do you think you'd be able to have a family on the side?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No.  I just don't think I could handle that.  Like I said, I have a lot of other interests that I'd like to pursue.  I want to be 100 percent in golf. 


Q.  (Inaudible.)

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  My cooking?  So so.  I've never cooked this much in my life.  This week we're staying in a house.  So I might get some practice. 


Q.  You're not cooking here in the kitchen?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No.  I don't know if they would allow that. 


Q.  (Inaudible.)

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I'm very satisfied.  If you look back at this year and last year  -- especially this year I got 1, 2, and 4.  And last year I finished 1, 1, I finished second and third, I believe.  My goal the last three years  -- I want to perform better in the Majors and I really believe that I have.  I know nobody remembers who finishes second, but I do.  I want to go back and have a chance to win on Sunday, I'm happy.


Q.  You put so much focus on the Major tournaments , how so?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It could be because there's only four events this year.  I put a lot of pressure on myself.  I have won a lot of tournaments, and to make my career complete, I would love to win Majors. 


Q.  Do you know when you want to stop?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No.  I'm just going to listen to my body.  And I think  -- what I mean by that is when I feel that I have no desire to play and the motivation is gone, if I wake up in the morning and I feel like I have no goals to achieve, I think that's the time for me to move on.  I feel very satisfied with my career being complete in many ways.  There's only a few things more that I want to achieve. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT