THE SOLHEIM CUP
September 20, 2002
Helen Alfredsson
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR: Good afternoon.  We have Helen Alfredsson and Suzann, four and two, I believe. 
Give us some details.  Can you just take us through the last few holes.  What was  --
Q.  12, 14 and 15 would be good, please.  I think it was a long putt, but I am not sure. 
HELEN ALFREDSSON:  Which one is 12?  Oh, that was from about 12 feet.
SUZANN PETTERSEN:  On the 11th she holed a longer one and the other one  -- holed one, as well.  (Inaudible) you holed a putt  --
HELEN ALFREDSSON:  Yeah, and then on the par 5.
SUZANN PETTERSEN:  I missed mine.
HELEN ALFREDSSON:  Missed it, and the next par 3 was another 12 footer and I knocked in.  And on the next hole I had about a four-footer on 15 for birdie.

Q.  (Inaudible).
HELEN ALFREDSSON:  Yeah, we just decided to.  We did not.

Q.  What do you feel was the turning point in the match?
HELEN ALFREDSSON:  I think the turning point, Suzann made an absolutely incredible putt on 9 for par, and so we tied that.  We could have gone one down there, but that was a crucial putt, and it was just to keep us, you know, in that good, even spirit.  Sometimes you just have this crucial putt, and that was one. 
And then we got the game going, we never got in trouble, and I holed the put on 11, and then we holed on 12, and then we just got in it, and then, you know, she hit some incredible iron shots that it's like it would be such a waste not to make them.

Q.  How long was the putt?
HELEN ALFREDSSON:  About 4 meters, 12 feet.

Q.  So does that mean you had a bit of a shaky start?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:  No.
HELEN ALFREDSSON:  Not really.  We were just  -- we made pars.  I mean, we didn't make birdies, and we played a pretty good team.
SUZANN PETTERSEN:  It's difficult to get into a good rhythm from the beginning.  You need to kind of feel each other and then you can kind of really go for it. 
But I think we both didn't really go too much into each other's game, and if you need support, you just ask for it.
HELEN ALFREDSSON:  We did what we had to do.  Whoever was hitting off the tee hit it on the fairway and then hit it on the green.  I think we really had  -- we only really missed one green, which is pretty good for a foursome.  So we were never really in trouble.  We didn't make any birdies in the beginning; we didn't let anything go, either.

Q.  Did you feel pretty evenly matched against your opponents?
HELEN ALFREDSSON:  I think they were a little bit more  -- they made some good saving putts.  They were in a little bit more trouble than we were, and sometimes that catches up on you.  We had to make some crucial putts just to stay in it. 
But, you know, they are very good players, both of them, so, you know  -- and that's the game.  They can take themselves out of jail any day.  And we knew that.  So we were always counting on them making the putts. 
And they made an incredible par on the second hole.  It's very easy to count it in there.  They hit in the trees and then they were away from the pin on 4, 3, and then up, and then make a huge putt for par, so that can be frustrating, too, when you are thinking, you know, we got one up here and then you don't. 
But I think we  -- I was telling her that that's a typical style, Kelli is fabulous with that, she can just make putts from anywhere, when you really, really don't expect it. 
So I think they were a little bit more in trouble than we were, and maybe that kind of  -- it wears a little bit on you, you just want to get  -- you know, hit the greens and hit the fairways, get a chance for a birdie.

Q.  Did you get a chance to practice the foursome together before this?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:  We had played all the practice rounds together, and yesterday we did play each other's ball, but it's mostly just play your own game, don't get too much into each other, no.

Q.  So Dale probably had this plan that you guys were going to be paired up together for some time?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:  I think the pairings actually made themselves.  After three practice rounds, you know who get along, like Paula and Laura, I mean, it's a perfect couple. 
So I think, actually, the pairings did it themselves.
HELEN ALFREDSSON:  And I think, also, when you play a similar game, you hit it the same distance, it's very difficult to play with somebody maybe much shorter than you are, so all of a sudden you are used to 7 irons and now you are standing with a 4 iron. 
We, basically, hit the same clubs, so that helps, too, you don't feel so out of place.  I would be here anyway, even if I would play my own ball, so that helps a lot, especially in foursome.

Q.  Suzann, what makes Laura and Paula perfectly matched for each other?  Can you amplify a little bit more on that?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:  They just have the same kind of humor.  I think Paula feels quite comfortable with Laura by her side, and I think it was the best that Paula hit the first tee shot.  It would be easy to say, Laura, can you hit it, but I think Laura is a great team player and she makes everyone feel comfort. 

Q.  Suzann, have you played in the U.S. before?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:  This year I have played three events.

Q.  Have you played here before?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:  Yes, three events. 

MODERATOR: Any more questions?  Laura, Alphie, thank you. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT