SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 27, 2016
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A lovely start here in Malaysia, you've played the last two weeks in Asia and looking good this week?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah, I've been playing a lot of golf lately.  Even after Evian, I went home and did a lot of testing and trying out some different stuff.  Considering changing.  I made a few changes to the bag, and you've just got to go put it in play and see how it reacts.   
I'm quite happy with where I'm at right now.   
 Q.  It's interesting that you've made some changes in the middle end of the season.  Is that always a good idea?  Clearly it's working.  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Well, obviously I never thought I was going to change to be quite honest.  I was never in a rush to get out of what I had.  I thought my current Nike was really good.  That's what I played with the last eight years.   
But when you have an opportunity, you have to see what's out there, and it takes a lot of time, and I'd rather do it while it's still hot rather than coming off a winter break and being rusty and I have to work on the ball-striking.   
Thought it was a good time to do it and get a few answers at the end of this year and going into next year.   
 Q.  What have you changed?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Literally everything.  I've still got my Nike ball and my Nike driver.  I know how that reacts.  Got a new set of irons, wedges.  Just trying to test them out.  I mean, there's so much on the market and to actually have the chance to play whatever you want, is actually quite a unique thing to do.  But it takes some time to go through it all.  But right now it seems to be okay.   
 Q.  Wonderful start, and you are a specialist in Asia.  You've won in Thailand, won in Korea and also won in Taiwan.  Yet to win here but a very good start.  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: I've yet to win here but I gave myself a good start.  Started off a little scrappy and came back, but overall a lot better golf.  Three more days to go.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT