ANA INSPIRATION
April 1, 2016
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Okay, well, that obviously had to be a nice finish heading into the weekend?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah, I mean, I bogeyed the 8, that was the only lousy shot I hit all day pretty much and destroyed a pretty clean card with a bogey.  So it was nice to finish off with a birdie, bogey, birdie.   
 Q.  Where were you on 8?  Were you off to the left?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah, I tweaked it a little bit left.   
 Q.  That's where everybody else is bogeying from.  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah, I've been hitting it good all day.  So when you hit it good, you try to take that angle and hit your shot but wasn't quite the best shot of the day, so, yeah.   
 Q.  What does the finish line do for you, going into the weekend?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: I mean, I had my goal today was to be somewhere climbing, at least get to five or six.  Got myself to six, so that was an internal goal for the day.  So it was nice to take some good, positive vibes along the way.  It's such a long week, so you've just got to try to get yourself some goals along the way and try to check them off.   
 Q.  What's this year been involving for you, Suzann?  What have you been working hard at?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Trying to play some good golf.  No, I feel like my game is really starting to come around.  I feel like I've worked very hard.  Now I feel my game is starting to kind of -- I feel good about it.  I can take on shots.  And that's great when you play a course like this especially some of these tee shots.  If you hit the fairways, this course is very playable, if you don't, you're screwed.  So today I think I missed one maybe on the last, but that's okay.   
 Q.  Any special work or advice coming in here?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah, he just told me to go out and play and don't think, which is for me, a huge challenge.  I can't say how many times he's been pushing me saying just go play, play the course, forget about everything else.  That's a barrier I've got to overcome.  Having been with less where you can just think yourself crazy, it's a different challenge.  But obviously he wants to simplify it and make it easier, and sometimes you can manage that and sometimes you manage to complicate it.   
 Q.  Do you pick numbers a lot where I need to get to six?  I need to get to here?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Seeing what the people did this morning, nobody's really making a move.  Some kind of round in the sixes will put you right there.  You've just got to go out and make sure you do that job.  I mean, it only takes a couple of lousy shots and it gets you the other way.  So happy with the nice work, and I'm resting now till tomorrow.   
 Q.  Stacy said she doesn't see anybody running away with it like you said.  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: No, but you've got to make sure you're in the field.   
 Q.  Don't play your way out of it?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: I missed several putts today, so I feel like I could have probably gone even lower.  But we'll take 5-under.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT