HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 4, 2016
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Really good stuff from you today, 69, good solid round?
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah, it's been two great solid rounds for me.  Feel like I left a couple out there today, but I mean, it's not easy, starting the round with the wind gusting here and there but overall very happy.
Q. Especially the start of this golf course, when you get around 4, 5, 6, 7, it is a tough place to get through comfortably?
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Well, I don't think you ever feel comfortable around here.  You've just got to try to pick your target and hit some good swings and just your yardages.  There's also some scorable holes, if you dare to take dead aim at certain hits.  It's a great golf course, a little bit windier than normal, what we are seeing this week.
Q. You made some really nice putts out there today?
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah, the greens are rolling good.  The course is in good shape, so it's there to be taken on the weekend.
Q. We always seem to see you so often play so well in Asia.  What is it with this part of the world that you just love?
SUZANN PETTERSEN: I feel like Asia is my second home.  I really just try to win everywhere I go, and we've played a lot in Asia, so I've had a lot of opportunities over the years.  HSBC is still on my bucket list to win, so I have a job to do in the next two days, so we'll see.
Q. 3-under today, you must be quite happy with that again, given the difficult conditions.  You're well placed going into the weekend.
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah, I've been playing some solid golf, hitting good golf shots and maneuvering myself around this golf course in a pretty easy way.  No complaints.  I'm in a good spot before the weekend.
Q. What were you happy with today?
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah, I'm hitting the ball better and better each day, which is for me my bread and butter usually.  It's nice that I feel comfortable and being able to hit the shots you see and execute.  For me, it's a good starting point, but still got a job to do on the weekend.
Q. Curious to know, what are you going to do now?  It's 3:15 in the afternoon.  Will you head back to the driving range or take it easy?
SUZANN PETTERSEN: At this point, we are happy to be in the clubhouse and finish the round because it looked a little dodgy for awhile towards the end.  Seems like we have been pretty lucky with the weather so far, so cross the fingers for another two days.
Q. You have Butch Harmon as your coach now.  What has he done to your swing?
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Butch, he's given me -- we've worked really hard in the start of the change, and now it's more for me to go out and trust it.  But for me, it's like deliberate practice is what I need to do, don't waste time, but when I do practice, it's got to be really high quality.
He's a good man to keep a leash on my neck to make sure I stay right on top of it.
Q. Do you feel as if the feel has returned in your golf, as well, are you feeling it more?
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah, I'm a very feel player.  If I see a shot, I'm very visual, as well.  So for me, it's nice to know that the ball comes off the blade the way it's supposed to.  It's been very good so far and it's getting better every day.
Q. Did you play with Rickie recently?
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Rickie and I went to see Butch at the Floridian.  Yani was there to see Claude.  We did some good work all of us in the morning and after lunch we decided to go play and Rickie shot an easy 60, had a putt for 59, had a couple of drinks on the back nine.
That's kind of what I love, as well, being with Butch.  You get a close-up of some of the best male players in the world.  It's just nice to be able to kind of talk different shots and kind of discuss how they execute certain stuff.
I seem to learn a lot from it, so I really enjoy it.  Rickie played a flawless round of golf, easiest 60 I've ever seen.  I think he's going to be red-hot for the Masters.
Q. When is the last time you played with any of the guys before then?
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Not too long ago.  Out in Vegas, I see the guys quite often if I go there.  Snedeker was out there last time I was there.  So it's just a little bit of a variation of how the schedule is, but they are all really nice and very helpful.
Q. What was the thing you saw in Rickie's game in that round?
SUZANN PETTERSEN: He hits it so pure and flushing it, and he hits his driver really straight.  Obviously putted fantastic.  It's just fun to see how his game has come around.
Q. Just dialed in that day?
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah, but he works hard at it.  It doesn't come for free, so good for him.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT