CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
August 11, 2015
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Back at a place where you've won twice, lot of good memories. How you feeling heading into this week? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN: I feel great. My game is really good. I've been playing good pretty much all year. It's really starting to come together. I had a great stretch in Europe. 
Excited to be back. It's always fun to be here in Portland. I have a lot of friends here, obviously, with Nike being their headquarters and it's fun to catch up with everybody. Almost feels like a home ground.

Q. What goes into that when you go to those Nike things? Is that something you look forward to when you come out to this event? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN: You always do. You catch up with all the different segments of the business pretty much. You go through products. You interact with everyone. It's not like this is the only time. I do it during the year, but it's nice to go to their house and be a part of their story.

Q. What do you specifically like about this course at Columbia Edgewater? What about it fits your game so well? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN: I never used to like it before we returned back from here from Pumpkin Ridge. If you hit the ball well here, you can give yourself a lot of looks. The greens are pure. They're small but they're very true. You can really take advantage of the par‑5s. But, overall, it's a good, classic golf course. I mean, if what you see is what you like, you're in good shape.

Q. A couple on Solheim. You're one of the first four to make it on the European squad. How do you feel about that? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN: It's a little different feel now than it was my first time around, but it's fun to see. It's fun to be a part of. It's great to see the buzz it's creating. It was great to see Mel Reid play her way on to the team. Not absolutely sure she would have gotten on to the team relying on a pick. So that just shows a lot of character right there to kind of play really well those last two weeks and kind of grab enough points. 
So it will be a good team. It will be less rookies than in the past, I think. But we're all excited. I think it's going to be a great venue. I think you're going to see a Solheim you've never really seen before, so always fun to be on European soil. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT