RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
August 1, 2015
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. In the end it was a level par round, but it was a tale of some very long putts. 
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah, felt like I left some shots out there but long game was great. Better today than tomorrow. Started off, it was quite tough. It was rough the first three or four holes. But tried to get into a nice rhythm. Hit a lot of greens. 

Q. When you sense the frustration building‑‑ how do you turn things around? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN: I really tried not to get frustrated this week, because you are going to get good breaks and good shots, and you're going to get some bad breaks, as well. That's probably what gets me going. Giving myself a lot of looks and that's what I've got to stick with. Tomorrow I have a chance. 

Q. And in the penultimate pairing, you can keep an eye what's going on. 
SUZANN PETTERSEN: You know, I don't really care. We have to go out and try to shoot a number. 

Q. Do you walk off the golf course frustrated because it could have been better? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yes, I did today. I managed to get back to level par. One 3‑putt cost me a bogey. The first hole was tough today. Through the rain, I kind of lost the speed of the greens a little bit. 
Making the turn, two great birdies and I missed two great chances on 17 and on 15. But glad I managed to hold it all together. Just one more day and I'm right where I want to be. 

Q. You look like you stayed pretty patient out there. Patience isn't something that I would say is top on your list of virtues having watched you. How do you manage to do that?
SUZANN PETTERSEN: I'm a very impatient person, but when it comes to golf, I become more patient and can be even more patient. Just trying not to let the frustration get to me. I'm hitting the ball great. Tee‑to‑green I'm in good shape. Gave myself a lot of great looks. Get a little magic on the flat stick tomorrow and see what we can do.

Q. You've played in the Solheim Cup and you've played throughout the United States and Europe. How important is it to win a British Open? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Obviously it's very important. Last year was the closest I've been. This year, I feel I'm in a great position again, so I've got to do some homework now, go get some good rest and try and go all‑in tomorrow. I'm going straight to the putting green and get the basics back for tomorrow. Just getting a good feel before I go back to the hotel. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT