KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 13, 2015
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  SUZANN PETTERSEN: I was standing on the range and I was seeing the early scores, you were anticipating quite a tough day with the wind.  It was probably the toughest it was in the range and a little bit of a direction on the range.  Kind of flew it right over the green on the first.  I knew it was going to be a long day and kind of a tough day with the wind switching on and off.  I fell back, a few hiccups here and there.  But there's also some good stuff.  So I'm going to look at the good stuff and I'll try and dig deep tomorrow.Q. What percentage do you think there is, given that there's two leaders so far in front right now?SUZANN PETTERSEN: You know what, this course is still very playable.  I think what makes this tough is the wind.  If the wind had been consistent, it would have been tougher.  But it's gusting up-and-down.  You can get pockets and kind of if you hit on the right side, you can still be in control of the ball. I really started to like this course.  It sets up for low scoring.  It also has some tricky, tough pin placements on certain holes.  But they are also setting it up so we can have some fun and have a go at some of the par 5s.  Overall, a decent day.  I wish I could have had two or three more, but I'm within striking distance.Q. How gratifying was the eagle?SUZANN PETTERSEN: Oh, I can't tell you how excited I was.  Such a silly second shot on 11.  I hit a perfect cut drive to kind of put myself in a good spot and just made a complete mess out of the entire hole. It was nice to bounce back, but I also felt I gave away a few shots.Q. You won a couple majors, players tomorrow trying to win their first major.  What will it be like for them?SUZANN PETTERSEN: I don't know, I'm going to try my hardest to win my third.  That's what I'm going to try and take care of.Q. But the task of winning a major for the first time?SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah, you go out there and try and win tournaments.  When I won my first, I don't even know if I thought about it.  I just tried to go out and win a tournament.  I was fortunate enough that it was a good major to win.  I've been very close at the LPGA Championship in previous years.  It would be fantastic to give myself a chance coming into the back nine tomorrow.  I mean, if it plays the same it's been playing this entire week, there will be some fun holes to play coming the back nine, 12, 15, 16, and today 18 is by far reachable.  So it's going to be some fun out there tomorrow.Q. With ground to make up, how important was that up-and-down on 18?SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah, I hit a fantastic 3-wood.  I had just a little bit too much club -- the other club was not going to pitch the front.  I knew long wasn't too bad.  There's enough green and the lie was decent enough, so nice birdie.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT