SOLHEIM CUP
September 13, 2019
Anne Van Dam
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Suzann, seven birdies between the two of you on a really difficult afternoon, swirly winds. Pretty impressive, and it's going to get most jobs done, isn't it?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: I just want to say I had the best partner in the world today. I felt a bit like (indiscernible) out there -- left and right and everywhere. But we managed to ham and egg it, which is all you've got to do. It's not easy, that front nine -- cross-winds, wind was up from yesterday. And when you have a superstar like this who just bombs it, you've got to be very happy.   
 Q.  That was some rookie performance, probably one of the best I've certainly ever seen. How did you feel out there? You couldn't have wished for much else, could you?  
ANNE VAN DAM: To be honest, I was so relaxed. I was standing on the first tee and Suzann said to me before we walked in, Just enjoy this experience. And that's what I did. I looked up and I saw all my family and friends here that are all behind me.   
And I mean, I hit a good drive on the first good, iron, almost made a birdie and was rolling after that, yeah.   
 Q.  And that was just such a fantastic, I mean your ball-striking was amazing. That's what you're talking about. It was something else. It made the long golf course so much easier. This is a tough track and it's hard work and it's tiring, isn't it? And tomorrow is going to be another day that it's hard for everybody to play both sessions?  
ANNE VAN DAM: You know what, you're actually going to see holes won with pars. It's just -- even in fourballs, it's just that tough, obviously with some pin positions. But it's playing long and it's tough to judge the wind.   
 Q.  You're in great position and a point ahead this morning and it's looking like maybe level or maybe another point ahead this afternoon. What's the plan for tomorrow?  
ANNE VAN DAM: Ask Catriona. No, I think we will see what our pairings are for tomorrow. But I think what I learned today is what Suzann said. You don't need to play perfect golf to win holes out here, even in fourballs. You don't need to be aggressive. You need to give yourself chances.   
It's what we did. We trusted our own game. And watching the girls this morning, I trusted every single one of them. It doesn't matter if I'm playing or not playing, I trust these girls, that they do their own thing, play their own game. They're good enough.   
 Q.  Suzann, what was it like playing alongside this dynamo who did not play much like a Solheim Cup rookie, did she?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: I told you we don't have a rookie on our team. I mean, this girl, she I think is the best golfer I've ever seen on the women's side. And today she just was absolutely a rock star. Fun to kind of cheer her on the side, but we ham and egged it.   
My game wasn't on the top of the -- my top of the game. But you know what? That's where you have to scramble out here when you have a partner like her, make your birdie every now and again. It's a tough golf course with the wind.   
So like we said earlier, you don't have to play perfect golf, and holes can be won with pars. It's just that tough. So just very excited for Anne to get her first point in the Solheim Cup. And, like I said, she's a stud.   
 Q.  At times you guys made it look easy out there with your length and strength certainly an advantage. Anne, what was it like to finally get out there and play? You've been waiting for this moment for a couple of years?  
ANNE VAN DAM: It was so much fun. Walking through that tunnel, especially playing with Suzann, she's been my idol growing up. For her to say, let's enjoy this, I thought, that's what we're going to do. That's what I would try to do. I was just hitting it solid from the beginning.   
What you said, it's not an easy golf course. And even from the tee you have to hit it in the fairway. If I hit it in the rough, I lose my advantage a little bit from the tee.   
But it was just great. I'm happy I played well, and I was just very comfortable and relaxed around Suzann. So that made it good for me.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT