KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 12, 2015
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  Q. Awesome round, how important was it for to you get off to that great start that you did?
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Obviously helped to get me a little bit of breathing room. Came off the course yesterday knowing I didn't play my best, and felt like yesterday was probably the easiest the course was going to be. I was a bit disappointed in myself because I feel like my game is good. It's nice to get off to a little bit of a good start. Made a couple of putts and from then on, you just try to get to as low as you can. 7-under today was pretty good.

Q. When you saw the morning scores, they were a lot lower than yesterday's. Were you surprised you were able to get off to a hot start?
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Well, paying a little bit of attention, you could see nothing really moved. So I figured the course was playing fairly similar. But overall, I had to go out and shoot a number, and I'm glad I did.

Q. You mentioned not the best start to the round. Was there anything you did after your first round to get it back?
SUZANN PETTERSEN: No, I didn't really do anything. I felt my speed of the greens was a little bit off yesterday. But stuck to the game plan. I didn't practice much after. I prepared the way I would always do, and like I said, it was nice to get off to a little bit of a good start.

Q. Going into the weekend, what's your game plan?
SUZANN PETTERSEN: It's just nice to get myself back in a tournament. I'm right where I want to be. There's a lot of golf to be played. This is going to be a battle. But the course plays well. The greens are maybe a fraction bit firmed up in the afternoon but this is going to be a fun weekend.

Q. Did you feel when you stepped on to the first tee, did you feel like you had this round in you? Did you feel good?
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah, but like I said, you pretty much are relying on a couple of quick birdies, get you moving. I wasn't really thinking too much. My goal was to shoot 5-under, get myself to 4 and kind of be somewhere there about. So got myself so six, so that was nice.
            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT