REIGNWOOD LPGA CLASSIC
October 3, 2014
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Rebound strong from yesterday.   Right now, lowest rounds of the day.   What was your strategy coming into today?
    SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I don't know.   I mean, I played some good golf yesterday.   I had six birdies or something and shot 1‑over, which is kind of a disaster.   Then I made a mess out of two of the par‑5s.
    Just trying to build a game for the stretch coming up.   I don't know if I was a little bit rusty and not sharp enough fro not having played for quite a few weeks and it kind of got do me a little bit on certain holes.
    Today I hit the driver really good and made the putts when I needed to.

Q.   You said it got to you.   You could see it on your face a little bit.   You were frustrated.   Mentally how do you get over that and rebound? 
    SUZANN PETTERSEN:   You have to look over what you did, how you can do stuff different, what's the solution, the fix. 
    And then, I mean, once you kind of have a clear picture what you need to do more of or not to do, then it's a pretty easy turnaround.
    Happy to bounce back with 7‑under and put myself somewhere back in the tournament. 

Q.   You said you were hitting the driver well and that you were rusty too.   Is that typical for you, when you feel rusty that the driver seems to be the first that comes? 
    SUZANN PETTERSEN:   No, not really.   Just my irons weren't sharp enough yesterday, which is kind of unheard of for me.   Just kind of rolled on from there.

Q.   How do you keep yourself busy here this week?
    SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I don't know.   Soon as I make it into the room I fall asleep.

Q.   You up early then? 
    SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yeah, super early.   Been up at 3:00 every night.   Today I might see if I can make it to the gym.

Q.   Since the injury do you feel like you've been working out less and on the golf course more or is it the same as before?
    SUZANN PETTERSEN:   No, probably been working out‑‑ probably practicing a little bit less.   Overall, I mean, I can pretty much manage my time and do whatever I feel like I need to, so it's not too bad.

Q.   Overall you pleased today?
    SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yeah, 7 is a good number today.   It is definitely scorable out here if you can manage the ball around and make a few putts.   Yeah, it's okay. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT