REIGNWOOD LPGA CLASSIC
September 30, 2014
Shanshan Feng
Stacy Lewis
Inbee Park
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   Questions for Shanshan. 

Q.   You're the defending champion here.   As Mr.Jones pointed out, it will be a very important Olympic qualifying (indiscernible) with a lot of points for players to compete for.   Also you have Chinese players.   Do you have any advices for other Chinese players?   How do you feel defending your title here?
    SHANSHAN FENG:   I had a wonderful tournament last year.   I played so well and won the championship here in the inaugural Reignwood LPGA Classic.
    Coming here I don't have any specific expectation in myself.   I feel a little pressure, of course. 
    When it comes to my advices for other Chinese players, especially the young players, I just practiced with 16 year old Wang Ziyi today.   In my observation, she had pretty solid driving and everything.
    The advice for the other players is such a tournament would be a great opportunity for Chinese players to play together with the top players from the LPGA.   That would be a great experience.   They don't have to expect too much.   It would just be a great experience, of course. 

Q.   Inbee, we understand and watch on TV that you're the torch bearer for the Asian Games.   We also know South Korea has such a strong roster of golf players.   For the upcoming 2016 Olympics, what do you expect in the Korean field?
    INBEE PARK:   Obviously it's a little bit different than Asian Games because that's just for amateurs; Olympics is going to be professional golfers and the best players in the world.   So I think it's going to be a little bit different to what we play right now.
    I watch the Asian Games all week last week.   The Chinese are good at pretty much every sport probably just except for golf.   I see they're getting much better every year.   They win gold medals in probably every single sport, but just not golf. 
    I see every year I come here an improvement.   Obviously this year's golf course, I feel like it's in much better shape than last year.
    Korean team expectation for the Olympics, obviously they're very high and everybody wants to win gold medals.   It's not going to be easy because there are so many great countries they have great golf players.
    I think we're going to have to try very hard.   Yeah, we're going to give it our best.   We're one of the best golfing countries.   Yeah, we'll do our best. 

Q.   My question is for Suzann.   First time you're here in Beijing.   What have you heard about last year, the inaugural year?   What is your expectation here?   And of course, what have you learned about Beijing?
    SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Well, I'm very happy to be here.   This is my first time in Beijing.   I've played golf other places in China and had great experiences everywhere I've been.
    I've only heard great things about this tournament.   I wasn't able to play last year, but from what I've heard and the excitement of the finish we had last year with Stacy and Shanshan, obviously it's a golf course that I would like to play myself.
    This year I'm very happy it fit into my schedule.   So far the course looks fantastic.   Great golf course.   Great shape.   And this resort is just very, very good place for all of us.
    Thanks for having us.   I'm very happy to be here. 

Q.   Question for Stacy.   You must remember what it was like competing against Shanshan here last fall.   Do you still regret what happened last year, and what do you expect to do this year? 
    STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, obviously last year didn't go the way I wanted to.   I played some great golf.   I definitely probably didn't handle things the way I wanted to.   That's why I'm back this year.
    I kind of want to right the ship a little bit.   I never back down from a challenge.   That's why I'm here.   More than anything, it's an opportunity to win.   It's a golf course I played really well on last year, and I feel like I'll have a good shot again this year. 

Q.   This question also is for Inbee.   How do you comment on your performance last year and your expectation this year?
    INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I think I had a great week last year here.   I played really good.   I don't remember what number I shot, but I think I shot many under par.   Obviously Shanshan and Stacy played much better than me last year. 
    Yeah, still feel like I played great around this golf course.   This year probably playing a little bit difficult than last year with a little bit difficult faster greens and a little bit longer rough. 
    But, yeah, I think I played in the last group on the final day.   I watched those two play and it was really exciting.   Yeah, I'm looking forward to something like that again this year.   Hopefully I can do a little bit better than last year. 

Q.   Question is for Shanshan.   I remember last year you said for yourself the objective was winning two titles.   This year you said three.   Is it a starting point for you to really achieve that? 
    SHANSHAN FENG:   I think win major, but that was my only title in five years of efforts on the LPGA.
    And then I needed to set a higher objective for myself.   Last year I told myself I needed to win two titles.   It was until here, Reignwood LPGA Classic, that I made a breakthrough winning my first.
    I was also very lucky at the end of the year, the season, I managed to win the second.   So I fulfilled my objective, my target.   I think in my professional career I need to set higher targets so I don't have any excuse not to expect myself to win even more this year.
    I have before close in several attempts this season, but the first one is yet to come.   I have six tournaments yet to go.   Why not?   Three in six efforts. 
    But I just want to put my annual goals behind for the moment, because I need to concentrate on 2014 Reignwood Classic. 

Q.   This question is for Stacy.   Stacy, you returned to Reignwood; runner‑up last year.   You have 15 top 10 finishes; three wins this year.   It's the end of the year.   I know winning tournaments is the goal, but do you take any consolation in the other hard work you did? 
    STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, really the goal for the rest of the year is looking at those year‑end awards and stuff like that.   I definitely want to win tournaments, but those year‑end awards are goals, too. 
    You kind of start paying attention a little bit more as the year goes on, but at the same time you got to go out there and win tournaments.
    I checked off a lot of goals I had for this year already, and I still have six tournaments left to take it up another notch.   I'm excited to be here.   I have probably more energy than I've had in the last couple years at this time of the year.   I'm excited to have a few tournaments left. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT