THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 11, 2014
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Rough start, but, I mean, what a finish.   Best finish you've had in a long time?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yeah, well, I was patient enough to kind of let the round build.
Hit a lot of great shots towards the end and managed to get a little bit out of the round.
Good start.

Q.   Trouble making the fairways?   Missed a bunch. 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Not really.   It was just like didn't think really hit it too close.   I would say I wasn't too close to making any birdies on the first 10 holes. 
But I wasn't in too much trouble.   Just didn't quite play that good.

Q.   Just missing some putts here and there? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yeah.

Q.   What did you work on on the range as you escaped us? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I just cooled off while I was still hot.   Just the same old back to basics.

Q.   Momentum going into tomorrow?   Five straight birdies has to feel good. 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yeah, obviously good feels to kind of finish a day, and built on those feels hitting a few balls on the range.
And then just going to cool off and do what I usually do.

Q.   Get something to eat?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yep.

Q.   Most positive aspect of the round?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   That I was patient enough to wait for something to happen and not flip out that I didn't kind of play good.

Q.   Defending champion Suzann Pettersen with us after a 4‑under 68.   Many congratulations.   Five straight birdies to finish.   Talk us through them. 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Well, took me about 10, 12 holes to find the triggers today.   Felt like I managed to build the round as I kind of played.
I was patient enough to kind of let the game come to me.   Felt close enough starting off but just not quite sharp enough.   All you need is like one good shot with one good swing sequence and all of a sudden it clicked a little bit. 
So it was a nice way to finish and nice start to the tournament.

Q.   With the breeze down it's very scorable out there, isn't it?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   It is very scorable.   But at the same time, if you're semi out of position you can't quite get to some of these pins.   You really got to be accurate off the tee, hit good tee balls, and then you can decide how aggressive you want to be to some of these pins.

Q.   Does the course feel a little different from 12 months ago?   It was so wet in 2013.
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   It's still semi wet.   It's not as muddy on the ball as i thought it would be.   Still a lot of sand in the fairways, so...
And the par‑3s are playing quite long.   I don't think it's an easy golf course today, but definitely scorable. 

Q.   Very early stages, but another illustrious name up there with you in Karrie Webb.   Would you relish the prospect of going...
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   No, I actually just briefly saw a scoreboard out there and saw she was 7‑under at one point.   I thought it was nice to respond with five straight birdies myself to kind of somehow keep up with her.

Q.   Give us your thoughts about tomorrow.   What's the game plan?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I've already been to the range.   Things are feeling pretty good, so just easy afternoon and prepare for tomorrow. 

Q.   Well done today.   Thanks for your time. 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT