PORTLAND CLASSIC PRESENTED BY CAMBIA HEALTH SOLUTIONS
August 29, 2014
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   In Norway, what your cause was, who was playing, when it was?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   It's coming up.  
   
 Q.   I know.   That's what she was saying.   She wanted to know who was playing and everything.   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   It's Lexi, Jessica, Paula and Natalie from the U. S., and on the Europeans I got Sandra Gal, Anna Nordqvist, myself and Caroline Martins from Norway.   
Same format as last year.   Third year.   Third‑year edition.   It's only getting better and better, and this year we're activating more in the local community.   We have‑‑ down on the harbor we have the week prior like a huge golf stand where people can kind of come and have putting contests for like hitting out on the floating green, and just trying to activate it and bring golf to the public, or the public to the golf.   
A lot of work, but it's a lot of fun, and I'm very glad to have the support from the rest of the girls.   It's been very‑‑ they've been very easy to deal with, very easy to inviting back.   
So hopefully it can grow bigger and bigger and we can kind of manage to donate as much money as we can to Right to Play.   I think it's a great organization, charity organization that kind of helps kids around the world who doesn't quite have all the means that we had growing up.   
For me that's why it's like a burning desire to help, and it's just great to see all the last few years and every other event you do for charity how much the girls actually care to help, and help raise money for different causes and help each other out.   
So I'm very much appreciative of their support, and hopefully I can kind of give them something great back.   We'll see them in Norway.  
   
 Q.   What pushed you to start that?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   It was always one of my kind of dreams to have like‑‑ my dream was always to have like a junior tournament, and now that that's been kind of settled, and I think this is the 11th edition we have it this year, I thought it was time to have more of a commercial approach to like the corporate market and more towards charity, and to start with a charity event it's a little bit easier than a regular event.   So we'll see what the future brings.   If Norway is to apply for the Solheim Cup, I might bounce it off to being a regular event.   
There's no set‑‑ but I mean the mission is all mine, and I have a great team at home who works very well.  
   
 Q.   Kraig said you're a rocky star there and the crowds are huge.   How cool was that?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I think Kraig was more of a rocky star last year than me.   But it's just great.   The reception we've had has been great.   I think it can be even better.   This is why we do a few more activities this year kind of down where the crowd is and see if that can help bring more people to the golf course.   
   
 Q.   Who's the emcee with Kraig out?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   It's actually a Norwegian guy, great emcee who's work TV for a long time.   Golf fanatic.   It's going to take a lot to step into Craig's shoes, but I think we got a good one.  
   
 Q.   Defending champ here, pretty pleased with 5‑under today.   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yeah.   I haven't played my best the last two days.   Really happy to be able to shoot 5‑under on the Back 9 to put myself somewhere close in the mid pack of the field.  
Played better on the Back 9.   But I don't know if it's just the fourth week that I'm tired, but grinding it out.   I'm finding solutions out there.  
   
 Q.   5‑under has gotta make you feel like you can go pretty low on this golf course, though.   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yeah, I birdied, I think, five out of the last seven holes I played.   So if you give yourself a good look from the fairways and your putter is hot, you can make a lot of putts.   The greens are great.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT