RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 13, 2014
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  SUZANNE PETTERSEN:   Today was tough.   I thought it was most challenging on the greens actually.   The wind on your body, the pace, just got a little bit off and I just hit a little bit too defensive short putts.   
But overall, I'm back, feel like I'm in a good spot now, and to be one short is always very disappointing.   But hats off, everything off for Mo to take off with the British Open championship.   I mean, well, well deserved, and I heard she had an eagle on the last to good way to finish a great championship.  
   
 Q.   Just talk about Mo Martin, how much does this surprise you?   Obviously you respect her now that she's won a major, but how much does it surprise that you Mo is the champion here?  
SUZANNE PETTERSEN:   Mo is a steady player on the LPGA.   She plays every week.   She's a pretty steady hitter.   Maybe not the longest, but on a course like this, you don't have to be.   It's more about being precise and getting the short game sharp.   
So she must have played her game out, because we all tried to chase her down.   We saw she was 1‑under in the clubhouse with three to go, and you know you've got to nail those three holes.   It's never a bad thing to post a good number in the clubhouse.   We tried our hardest but fell short.   
   
 Q.   Even par for the championship, tied for second.   How pleased are you with your finish?   
SUZANNE PETTERSEN:   Well, I tried my hardest.   I knew I needed a birdie and eagle to tie Mo in the clubhouse.   I tried my hardest; one short.   
My game is right back where I feel like I belong and obviously very disappointing to be one short.   But it was tough out there today and it's hard to say kind of where you could have picked up that one shot or another, because you try your hardest and you try to make every putt, but my putter probably let me down on a couple of occasions today.   It's tough with the wind in your body and you feel like the wind‑‑ adjust for the speed.   
Overall, decent.   Hats off for Mo Martin who got her first major championship.   
   
 Q.   What do you think of Mo Martin winning?   
SUZANNE PETTERSEN:   Mo is probably one of the most popular players on Tour.   Very happy for her and I'm sure she's going to have a heck of a party tonight with all her friends on Tour.   Hopefully she'll be in for many more championships to come.   Very happy for her and disappointed for myself to be one short.  
   
 Q.   And how taxing is the wind and the conditions mentally?   
SUZANNE PETTERSEN:   It is tough.   I mean, I started off with a double‑bogey and you still know you're right in it.   It says everything about this golf course.   It's harder to recover from big numbers today with these conditions, so the damage is a little bit more harsh to say that way, but you try your hardest and that's all you can do.   
   
 Q.   I was talking to your swing coach, David Leadbetter, earlier, and he said you were there and finally your health is back.   Do you feel like you're close?  
SUZANNE PETTERSEN:   Yeah, this is right where I want to be.   This is a great test.   This was like almost my second tournament back where I was really in contention.   I hit a lot of great shots.   I don't know if I want to go out and hit any shots over except for a couple, but overall I feel it's nice to feel that the feel of my game matches my result.   It's a good direction and hopefully I can be in contention for more this year.  
   
 Q.   Positives to take out of playing so well this week?  
SUZANNE PETTERSEN:   For sure.   I tried my hardest to finish with a birdie eagle or eagle birdie, two par 5s, makeable.   But probably my best chance was the last bunker shot.   Came out a little bit left.   But I gave it a try.   One short is obviously did he disappointing but hats off to Mo who flies off with her first major victory.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT