RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 12, 2014
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   A real turnaround in this championship so far and very much in the thick of things. 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yeah, it's nice.   I've been playing really well for a few days.   It's just hard to kind of get going because it's easy to make one little mistake and takes you right back into the toughness of the course.   I'm really enjoying this course.   First time I really feel it‑‑ just really trying to build the round as I go. 
Who knows what the weather is going to give us tomorrow, but from what I've seen, it's supposed to be nice towards the afternoon so give myself a later tee time might be a good thing.

Q.   Three birdies going out and some dropped shots and you got them both back at 17th with the wonderful eagle?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   There are some holes where par is a great score and 13 is one of them.   Unfortunately I had a 3‑putt to bogey.   It's not like it was a disaster or bad shot or anything.   Felt really in good shape, hitting the ball great, confident over the putter.   So hope I can take it into tomorrow.

Q.   Been a difficult year for you because I know you've had back problems and you had to miss the first major of the year and missed the cut at the Women's Open; is there a chance to make up for lost time?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I'm sure that's how you feel and it's dreadful when you don't get to play golf and when you miss the big tournaments that you live and die for, it's even more painful.   I've been pretty good now since the U.S. Open and I'm looking forward and I'm in good shape and I have no worries.

Q.   This is the major that you had until last year fared least well in, and having major victories in America and France, almost the Phil Mickelson thing, that you want to become a complete golfer by winning on links.   Is there a little of that in you? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   There's definitely a little bit of wanting to try and win all five majors by the time my career is over.   And I feel like my game is suitable for all different courses.   You've just really got to adjust and play smart and adjust accordingly. 
Yeah, I'm right where I want to be for tomorrow but who knows, I'll go out tomorrow and give it my all but at the same time play smart. 

Q.   We always knew that there could be a fast finish on this golf course with three par 5s in the last four holes, and eagle, birdie for you; how crucial was that? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   It's always a very nice finish.   I've been playing really well for three days now.   I mean, you can't blame yourself if you don't shoot under par on this course.   Par is a great score but conditions have been so good so you just really have to try and take advantage. 
Got on a nice run and had a couple of hiccups mostly on putting to be honest but finished strong with eagle and birdie.   I'm right in the mix of where I want to be tomorrow.   Who knows what the weather wants to give us, but it's been lovely so far.

Q.   David Leadbetter was really singing your praises and felt like you could have a very good week here at Royal Birkdale.   Was there a feeling coming in that you were starting to peak?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yeah, Arkansas two weeks ago is when I started to feel good.   It's been a tough year for me but now I have no pain and I'm looking forward.   I'm in a good place and I'm feeling good with my game so fun to be out there and I'm really enjoying this golf course.

Q.   Looking ahead to tomorrow, so many things can happen and so many things can change on this golf course, double‑bogeys, eagles; does that change the mind‑set that maybe you'd be keeping an eye on other people tomorrow and just play your own game? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Around this track, you have more than enough to take care of the tee shots and approach shots.   Even the middle of the fairway, you can easily hit a sloppy second and put yourself in an awkward spot, so you just cannot go anywhere but being in the present.   Right off the bat, you're tested with a pretty nice tee shot there on No. 1.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT