RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 11, 2014
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You picked up a couple shots towards the end.   Pretty fair to say you've played good golf over the last two days?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yeah, I played a lot of good golf.   A couple small mistakes here and there that kind of cost me a bogey, a little sloppy bogey on 17, I could actually probably go for less than a 3‑wood but decided to lay up and 3‑putted.   That just hurts like nothing else.   
Playing good golf.   Great conditions.   I don't really think we can ask for any better.   I would say it's a red‑hot day in Southport.   
It's a great golf course, and I'm happy with what I've done over the last two days and hopefully it will be somewhere close to the lead.  
   
 Q.   It's known on a course like this that there are going to be moments where you're in trouble and things like that.   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I don't really feel like I've been in massive big trouble.   When I have been in trouble, I've taken my penalty and gotten back out to the fairway and given myself a putt for par.   I'm putting good, so feeling very confident for the weekend.   
For sure, I believe in my game and I know what I've done in my practise, so just a question of going out there and trying to take it on.   Playing kind of aggressive where you can play aggressive and just take your medicine when you have to.   
   
 Q.   Nice way to finish the round today.   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yeah, I don't know, hit a good drive on 17 and was, should I go for it or not and decided to lay up and tried to play smart and made bogey.   
On 18, I wasn't too keen.   I had a 6‑iron in my hand coming in.   So would have been painful to par that, as well.   But hit a good putt.   1‑over, it's decent.   I'm not really putting myself in too much trouble.   I felt like even par or under par would be good today, so fairly close.  
   
 Q.   I guess that's the key to any good score is just stay out of the trouble, particularly on these links courses.   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yeah, and if you do get in trouble, you just have to take your medicine and not try to be a hero and try to hit the most miraculous shot out there.   
Yeah, I got a few up‑and‑downs on the fairway after being in some of those pot bunkers.   Pretty happy.  
   
 Q.   Condition on the face look ideal, but it's one thing to have the sunshine.   You still have to go out and play.   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   You can't ask for any better than this, but the same time, a links course sometimes almost plays easier with a little bit of breeze.   You're not used to hitting stock shots with no wind helping or hurting.   It's a great day.   Hopefully the conditions will stay pretty even throughout the day and then we have two pretty even days for the entire field.  
   
 Q.   We had a 68 yesterday but is it the sort of layout that you can see somebody go really low if the conditions stay like this?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   There's always some opportunities but there's also some devil holes where par is a great score.   You don't have to be that much more aggressive before you get in more trouble.   It's a very fine line but if your game is on, you can shoot under par today.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT