CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
August 28, 2019
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Alongside Suzann Pettersen, the 2011 and 2013 winner of this tournament, just coming in off playing the pro-am. How does the course look?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: It's in probably the best shape I've ever seen it. The greens are extremely pure, fast. How you would love to see them. And the fairways are great, rough is not as thick as it has been in the past. But this is a great course.   
 Q.  What's your favorite part of the course?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: I don't know, I just feel like at home around this place. I think it's the tree-lined -- each hole is different, requires a few good iron shots to try to get close to some of these pins, and I think it's also a tee shot golf course. If you hit good tee shots you're going to give yourself a lot of looks from the middle of the fairway, and if you miss fairways sometimes it's actually hard to get on the greens. It's a combination. I think you just have to manage your overall game. It doesn't favor one over the other. I just think overall, probably more a tee shot course than anything else.   
 Q.  You really weren't sure what your schedule was, you weren't going to reveal it. Did you ever envision yourself coming back here upon taking that leave from the LPGA?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Well, I've always had a big heart for Portland. First, I've played well here, I've won here, and also being a Nike athlete, it's like a second home, at least this side of the country. So I've always enjoyed coming here. Like I said, they usually bring the sunshine to this part of the state.   
Yes, so when I looked at the schedule, I thought this would be a good kind of tournament to play and get my game ready for the Solheim, and here I am.   
 Q.  In terms of getting ready for the Solheim Cup, what part of your game do you think you need to tune up the most throughout this week?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: I'm actually starting to feel quite comfortable overall. I think it's just sharpness on yardages. But obviously this weather is going to be quite different to what we're going to see in Scotland. I think just overall managing your game coming into the Solheim week with a good feel because you don't have too much time to kind of work on your game that week, so you'd rather come in with a good feel and kind of use your time on the golf course instead of getting the reps in on the range.   
 Q.  You've just come back from playing competitively on the LPGA and looking ahead to Solheim Cup, how much have you had to have a look at other players out here this week in the European team? Now you're sort of like a leader of the European team. Like Anne van Dam is playing and I think there's about six others?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah, well, a few of them I haven't been around too much obviously because of my absence from the Tour over the last year and a half. But I think we've spent enough time together or around each other to kind of get to know each other quite well. We all went down to Gleneagles after the Scottish and spent a good almost two days there together. I think the atmosphere of the team is dialed in already, which is quite fun. The WhatsApp group is quite busy. People are throwing things back and forth at each other all the time. I just love it. It's a great -- like I said, the team is already kind of dialed in, and I think everyone feels quite comfortable on there.   
 Q.  Who set the WhatsApp group up? Was it Catriona or did it come from one of the players?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Probably -- Catriona is not like the biggest technical person on this planet, but yeah, probably.   
 Q.  Who's the most active on that? Are you one of the ones given some of the chat to the younger ones?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yeah. I mean, we gave Anne a little bit of a hard time yesterday when she was doing the long drive against Angel, of course. But it's just a lot of fun stuff. It's also a good way of getting to know each other and for everyone to kind of say whatever they want, you know.   
 Q.  It's quite interesting, Anne obviously went on to win yesterday against Angel. Did everyone kind of go in the group and say, oh, nice job.  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: If she would have lost she would have been off the team. No pressure.   
 Q.  You kind of mentioned back there, you obviously won here. What's so great about Portland besides the golf course and coming here that you love?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN: I just always feel quite relaxed around here. It's a good vibe in Portland. This year I'm actually staying downtown, a bit more casual. Already been out to see the Nike campus. You see a lot of familiar faces. I don't know, it's just a good part of the country this time of the year, I guess. Well, at this point I'm just really trying to enjoy every trip I go on.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT