NORTH TEXAS LPGA SHOOTOUT PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 3, 2014
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Joined by Suzann Pettersen here after a 3‑under round today.   8‑under for the tournament.   In contention.   What was working out there for you today?
  SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I don't know.   Just pretty steady from the tee.   I didn't feel like I played my best golf toward the end but at the end of the day I'm in a good position.   Just going to go try and figure a few things out on the range.
Q.   You mentioned that you're in a good position despite not playing your best.   Leaderboard is pretty stacked.   A lot of people in the hunt.   Does that change your approach going into tomorrow with that many people in contention?
  SUZANN PETTERSEN:   No.   I mean I think today was the best conditions scoring wise.   I think tomorrow the wind is supposed to pick up again, and a little different direction.   So today, I mean pretty ideal conditions, so I thought at 3‑under no big mistakes out there, but still, I left a few out there.
Q.   And then going into tomorrow, do you have a number in mind or are you just going to play your game and see how it shakes out?
  SUZANN PETTERSEN:   You gotta go and try to go super low.   I mean there's too many in the hunt.   Everyone is going to chase the course.   So I think you gotta go pretty low tomorrow to win this out right.
Q.   And you've been in the hunt a lot over the past year, so you have that experience knowing what it takes to close.   How do you see that playing as an advantage for you going into tomorrow?
  SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I don't know.   Experience is good to have every now and again, but I mean tomorrow is a new day, it's a new year, and the course is a little different.   So I just gotta go out with a fresh mindset.
Q.   And finally you mentioned you're going to hit the range.   Any plans for after that going into tomorrow or just same strategy as always?
  SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Just go work out a little bit, get some treatment. 
Q.   All right.   Appreciate it, Suzann, best of luck tomorrow. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT