NORTH TEXAS LPGA SHOOTOUT PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 1, 2014
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Suzann, strong finish.   How are you feeling?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I feel good.   I mean very patient.   Just really just trying to enjoy being back.   
I gotta kind of pace myself a little bit.   I can't do too much early in the week.   So I have a lot of spare time to fool around with.   
Just playing good.   Hitting the ball great.   Today I was actually feeling a little bit tense to start, which is a good sign.   So nice to be back.  
   
 Q.   And you say go easy, you mean golf wise or gym wise or both?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yeah.   I really can't go hit balls on the range.   I play whatever I need to play and then just try to give my body a little bit of break.   
   
 Q.   Any new hobbies?   What have you been doing in your spare time?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Hobbies, I watch pretty much a lot of TV.   I've gone through a couple of TV shows.   
Just really trying to take all the advice that I've been given, resting up.   There's not much more I've been doing.   
Yeah, body feels okay.   It's been a little bit achy early this week.   So taking it a little bit careful.   But last week was nice to be back.   It's always tough when you come back from something like that when you're so out of play.   You're not even close to be playing.   And then next thing you know the pain is gone and you can start hitting balls, and to bring back the mentality straightaway, I mean you just, for the most part just happy to be back.  
   
 Q.   Did you think it was going to take longer, shorter to get back?   Were you a little nervous or you had no expectations at all?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yeah.   I was prepared it was going to take a while, because the pain was very similar to what I had 10 years ago.   But you try not to be stupid.   You try and learn from your past and learn from experience.   And it happens.   I mean that it happened then, I mean it's never good timing, but hopefully it's back in good shape and we'll hold up.  
   
 Q.   How close are you to 100 percent, do you think?   Doesn't sound like you feel like you're there yet?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   No, I'm not.   Very close as I get payments‑‑ I got treatment every day, needles and all taped up.  
   
 Q.   Acupuncture?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yeah.   A lot of acupuncture.   I respond good to that.   
No, pretty much very happy.   
   
 Q.   Anything about the round that stuck out?   Any of the birdies?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   No.   Just very patient.   A lot of great tee balls, gave a lot of good putts.   Gave a lot of looks.   No, just really tried to play the course, what it gave us.  
   
 Q.   Wind play a factor at all in the afternoon?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   It died down a little bit on the last couple of holes, but after seeing the first couple of days earlier in the week, I mean you expect it to be a little bit gusty.   
   
 Q.   With this you might not want to practice anymore now?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   No.   I'm going straight home now.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT