SUNRISE LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 26, 2013
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  ALI KICKLIGHTER:   I'd like to welcome Suzann Pettersson into the interview room.   Suzann you had a difficult start to the day but you brought it back.   What happened in those first few holes?   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   You know, I had a great warmup, felt good.   On the second, I kind of made a little amateur mistake trying to get too cute on the tee ball and left myself with a very tough up‑and‑down.   Just couldn't get it going.   Just made a few errors.   
Today was a tough day for me.   It was all about hanging in there and trying to bring it back to where I started.   Disappointing to 3‑putt 17.   But glad to make the birdie on the last.   
ALI KICKLIGHTER:   You're really known on Tour for your fierce, competitive nature and your never‑give‑up attitude.   Do you think that really helped you out there?   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yeah, but at the same time, I've got to make sure it doesn't get in my way.   I could easily have lost it out there today.   It was‑‑ you know, some days are easy.   Some days are not that easy, some of the times you see everything you're going to do right in front of you.   Other times you fall in‑between clubs and are not quite sure and then you start questioning if it's enough, if you had enough‑‑ if it's going to be too spinning.   
It's one of those days where you can be very analytic, and it's all in the conditions to be analytic.   One more day in these conditions.   
ALI KICKLIGHTER:   You touched a little bit yesterday about the dog that Yani gave you, and she said today that she wants it back from you (laughter).   Can you talk a little about yours and Yani's friendship, because she did say how excited she was for you.  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I will buy her a real dog.   (Laughter).  
Yani and I have been good friends for a long time.   She's a great girl.   I've pretty much had a great friendship with her from the second she joined the Tour.   We've had a great friendship both on and off the golf course and I think we both have made each other better.   We practice together; we play together, and even though you're [] competitors, sometimes it's good to play ball with each other.   I think as much as you are the feisty competitors, you make each other better.   
What she's achieved so far in her career, it's hard to repeat.   I told her that this summer.   She came up to me and asked me what I thought of her game.   I said, Yani, you can't put the bar where‑‑ you can't expect to win 12 tournaments a year.   If you do that, you're going to be pretty much disappointed every season from now on.   
You know, golf, it's a funny game.   Sometimes you're on a roll, it feels like you can do whatever you feel like.   Other times, it could be very marginal and everything going against you.   But she's way too good to dig herself a big hole and disappear.   She's way too good of a golfer for that.   
I try to keep supporting her, trying to help her bring her AGame back, because I miss our feisty rounds together.   
   
 Q.   How satisfied do you feel on the last birdie?   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   It feels better than 3‑putting.   I mean, starting on 17 tee, I tried to finish with two birdies, and end up 3‑putting.   I thought the pin position on 17 was a joke.     The pin was on the downslope and I thought that's the worst pin placement I've seen all year.   So great credit to the rules official there.   And obviously nice to finish on a good note.   This is far from over, and I have a number in my head, so I'm one closer.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT