SUNRISE LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 24, 2013
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  ALI KICKLIGHTER:     Suzann, quite the day out there in difficult conditions.   What was working? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Well, it was quite a day.   It took pretty much three hours and 20 minutes to play the front nine.   That's more than it took to play the Pro‑Am yesterday. 
I think the wind direction was a little bit different today, which made a few holes tougher, which made a couple of hold‑ups on the front nine.   So it was hard to find the rhythm.   But once I made the turn, it kind of got better and it's easy to find your rhythm and you can kind of get on a constant pace out there. 
ALI KICKLIGHTER:   You won here last year.   Is there something about the golf course here that you particularly like or is it just kind of you're comfortable? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I don't know, I don't really comfortable around this place, because the wind is all over.   But I feel pretty good with my game.   I feel my ball‑striking is pretty much where I want it to be.   I've got to just be very clear on what I'm trying to do and step up and do it.   Hit some great approaches on the back and I hit some good ones on the front. 
Like I said, if you give yourself some good looks from the fairway, you can hit some ‑‑   you can hit it close.   I feel like I have the shots needed to get around this place, so today was a good day.   4‑under is a decent day.   I can find shots out there that I kind of left out there but at the same time, I'm pretty happy with 4. 
ALI KICKLIGHTER:   Your last four tournaments, you've had two wins and two top three finishes.   Since you've played on the Tour, do you think this is the best you've played in your career? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I don't know, I mean, I work really hard on my game.   I've said for a long time, I feel like my best game is ahead of me. 
So I think I'm just about to kind of touch on where I feel like I should be and when I put down the work that I feel is needed and kind of trust what I do, I feel this is where I should be.
So for me, it not really a big surprise.   I feel more and more comfortable with what I do and obviously the older you get, the more you know.   Yeah, I've played good for 12 months, but I'm not really surprised, either. 

Q.   What a great start, when you played at maybe eight, does that help a little bit? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   It was a tough day out there.   Conditions were not great.   I've played this course in nicer conditions.   Once the rain stopped, the wind picked up, so I mean, it's your pick, if you want rain or you want wind. 

Q.   So which one do you choose? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Neither.   (Laughter).

Q.   You've had a very good start today, do you think you have a very good chance to win the tournament? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Well, I'm always going to do my part to try to make that happen.   It's a long way to go, four tough days, so you've got to counter kind of tough conditions and really try to stay out of big troubles.   So I felt like today is one step closer.   I felt like I put myself in a good position.   I felt like I tested my game good enough to kind of know where it's at. 
So I feel pretty good.   I'm well rested and should be ready for another three days here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT