LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 19, 2013
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Good playing out there.   You brought it back at the end.   What was working?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I don't know if I was prepared for the little bit of breezy weather.   I just hit a lot of too normal shots for the conditions.   The yardages were a little bit off for that reason, so I adjusted a little bit around the turn. 
Feels like I get it going on the back a little bit better than I do on the front. 
Just happy to kind of bring it back.   I don't know whether the leaders are, but hopefully somewhere close.   The greens of firming up so ‑‑ they're really hard, so it's hard enough to get close to certain pins.
Feels better.

Q.   You're one back as of right now; you won here last year.   Do you feel at home on this golf course?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yeah, definitely feel at home in Korea.   Just blend in. 
But, no, tried to birdie the last four, but I'm in a decent position.   So hopefully nice buffet tonight and good sleep will do it.

Q.   Kind of seems like you're unstoppable as of late.   Every time you're out there you end up winning.   Do you feel that way?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   No, I mean, today I feel really good about 3‑under; yesterday I felt like I left a lot of shots out there.   I feel like I'm getting better at just letting the frustrating go.
I don't know.   I mean, I'm playing good, so it's like I can't get too upset if you hit a shot that doesn't quite end up where you want it be. 
I think I'm accepting more knowing that I can also get more chances out there.

Q.   Do you have any expectations going into tomorrow?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   No, but I expected to be in contention the way I've been playing.   That's all I can ask for. 
We'll see where I go out tomorrow, but I feel pretty comfortable with the position I'm in.   It's not going to be easy.   The greens are going to probably dry up even more.   Feels like the harder the better for me.

Q.   You're closing in on that No. 1 spot.   Each week you keep improving.   Do you think about that at all?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I keep an eye on t.   It's not like the I wake up and the first thing I glance on is the world rankings. 
But I know if I play well towards the end of the year and I win tournaments I can possibly take it from her by Christmas. 
That's what I'm shooting.   That's not going to be disappointing if I don't get it.   There's a chance, an opportunity. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT