SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 12, 2013
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How was your day today?   Pretty steady?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I'm playing pretty steady, hitting almost 18 greens, and not making a putt. 
It's very hard to stay patient.   4‑under is pretty much the worst score I could shoot, and that's pretty much the start of the week. 
Just glad there is one more round.   Lexi is playing great, so there's definitely a low one needed tomorrow.

Q.   I saw a couple times you looked very frustrated on the greens.   You said keeping patient.   Is that something you think you did well?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yeah, it's tough when you hit so many greens and you have so many chances and you don't really convert.
The overall game is very solid.   Happy to be back in a playing mode.   Just nice at least finish with two birdies on the last three.

Q.   How big is that, having a good finish? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Obviously makes you feel a little bit better, but like I said, the stats are pretty much the same every day.   Been hitting most of the fairways, most of the greens, and just not ‑‑ so far not the best week on my putting.
There is room for improvement. 

Q.   I think you're five shots back now.   Position you think you're comfortable in during the chase on Sunday?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yeah, I mean, obviously I can easily be there.   I've shot low round scores before.   If you get it going on these greens, the par‑5s are somehow reachable.   I've changed balls and I'm actually hitting it further, which is nice.   Finally an equipment change has gone to my favor. 
I'm almost an iron longer and I'm hitting the driver a lot longer.   It's been a good change for me.

Q.   What were the clubs? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   No, just a new ball.   It goes a little bit further.   Better ball for me.

Q.   The Nike what now?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I don't know.   It's a prototype.   (Indiscernible) and black.   It's been‑‑ it was kind of a change that I felt like it was worth taking coming here and starting to develop a new ball and getting that in play.
Played with it a couple times, practiced with it back home, and felt like I was hitting it fairly well.   It's always hard to tell under the gun.
Feeling very comfortable today overall.

Q.   Did the stop in play get in the way?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Not really.   I feel pretty good of what I'm trying to do.   Even though I'm old, I can keep the machine going. 

Q.   Any holes that were particularly challenging?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   No, I thought it was good today.   They tried to move up the tee on 16.   It was very much into the wind when we played it. 
They changed a few tee boxes like a little bit, ad that makes it that much more interesting.   I think 16 plays a little better from that upper tee.   Course is in good shape.

Q.   Will we see a more aggressive approach tomorrow?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I'm playing pretty aggressive.   Only so much more I can do.   I keep feeding myself a lot of great chances and got to start converting.

Q.   Going back to the putting green to work on something?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   You got to start praying.   (Laughing.) 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT