SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 10, 2013
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You looked like you were hitting every green possible?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yeah, today was actually a good day out there.   I didn't have the best day morning.   I woke up really dizzy.   I wasn't quite sure if I could tee it up because just trying to find my clothes this morning made me feel nauseous. 
But feeling better now, and this is the best I've made it all week.   So, hopefully, it's on an uphill swing, and hopefully I can hit a few more putts out there.   Today I didn't make any putts, so 4‑under today felt like I left three or four out there.

Q.   We know you shot a 64 around here before.   We know you love coming to Asia.   Hopefully, this dizziness will go for the rest of the week.   But you feel so at home in this part of the world? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yeah, I feel comfortable.   I'm trying to embrace it.   I enjoy being here.   I feel comfortable.   How can you not love this place? 

Q.   You've won the last two, so you're looking pretty good coming into this week. 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   It's a good start.   You can't win a tournament on the first day, but you can definitely play your way out of it.   So this is a good start.   Like I said, I left a few out there, but a little tweak on the putting green there and hopefully I can be as sharp tomorrow morning.

Q.   You've been on such a great roll since the Solheim Cup, confidence is also a key factor.   It's like an extra club in the bag. 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yeah, for sure.   I have a lot of trust in my game.   It's always on a continuous progress of work and making sure like you maintain all the good basics.   But overall I feel very good and feel like I can manage my way around all different kinds of golf courses.

Q.   Are you going to treat yourself to a little focal food this evening? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Maybe a little curry, who knows.   Just to kind of wrap the day up, but it's been a great day.   Just trying to get a little bit of practice in there before the rains come.

Q.   Your caddie? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   We're having a baby this week.

Q.   He's having a baby.   What made you get Tim on the bag?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Tim is a good friend of mine.   He's caddied for me before a few times.   He was down here, and it's just easy to have somebody you know and you can kind of just have a good time with.

Q.   When is the baby due? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   They're already three days over.   So it's pretty much any day.

Q.   So Aunt Suzann?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Aunt Suzann or mommy Suzann. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT