THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 13, 2013
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome Suzann Pettersen into the interview room at the Evian Championship.   5‑under par, 66.   
Short miss there at 18, but just walk me through your round.   Seven birdies, two bogeys.   Pretty darn good.  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yeah, I played pretty good today.   It took forever to play.   I'm just happy I maintained my concentration throughout the back nine.  
Two 3 putts, two bogeys.   That last putt basically just jumped straight offline.   The greens are definitely better in the morning, I would probably assume.   They're fairly wet, and with all the footprints and everything, you need to have a few bounces going your way to make a few putts.  
Overall playing really about good.   For me it was a good day off yesterday just to recover and get a little bit of energy.  
MODERATOR:   Back‑to‑back birdies, 15 and 16 where you took the lead.   Just take me through the last few holes there.   You said keeping your composure was key to your round.   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yeah, they're good finishing holes, though, especially with the pin on 15.   I decided to layup, so that was easy to get close.   Stacy was faced with a really tough third shot.  
The greens are really tricky, especially the ones if you're above the hole putting towards the lake.   They're just that much faster, so you got to be really aware and take it as it comes.  
18 is a great finishing hole now.   Good, solid par‑4.   16, 17, 18, I think it's a good change.   
MODERATOR:   What's gotten into you the last few events?   Top three in your last three, won Safeway, played well at Solheim.   How do you explain it?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I'm just getting too hold to waste my energy or time.   Just really trying to win as many as I can while I'm young.   (Laughter.)  
MODERATOR:   What drives you right now?   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I feel like I've been playing really good for about a year now, pretty much since I went to‑‑ our trip to Africa.   Well, pretty much since Asia last year I've been playing very consistent.   I'm feeling good.   I'm trying to get better and better.   I've been putting in the time where I feel it's needed.  
For this moment, it's definitely the greens, getting more confidence in my putter, and that's pretty much what I've spent the most time doing pretty much since the U.S. Open.   It's nice to see that the practice and training pays off fairly quick.  
MODERATOR:   You've been playing great for about a year; you played well today.   You're going to Asia in a few weeks where you've played well across your entire career.   As you look toward the end of the season, what's on your mind?   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   What's on my mind is to get through this week, put together a few more good scores, and take a break.   It's been a rough month for me.   I'm not really 25 anymore, and this is my fifth week in a row.  
Playing Solheim to start off a long stretch is probably not the best either.   When you're playing good, you just want to play.   For me, I probably play my best when I play quite a few weeks in a row.  
So like I said, just really trying to keep it together this week and looking forward to getting a little bit of a break before I head to Asia.  
MODERATOR:   Questions for Suzann.   I might've asked them all.   
   
 Q.   With your putting, have you changed anything?   Anything different about it?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   No.   Just that the ball drops in the hole a bit more often.   Pays off on the scorecard.   Few more circles.  
No, not really.   I just really have picked up the discipline of what I'm practicing and how I'm practicing.   It's always more fun practicing what you're good at.   I think that's kind of part of been what I've done in the past.  
My ball striking is for the most part my bread and butter, and it's always easy to spend time working on that.   But really just tried to be disciplined enough to put in the time and the effort to get my putting up to a level where I feel it's good enough.   
   
 Q.   Do you close your eyes still on some putts?   You were doing that for a while, right?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   At this moment I'm not doing it.   That's a feel that comes and goes.   I feel like my practice is fairly consistent now, so I feel like what I'm trying to do is easier with my eyes open.  
No.   
   
 Q.   I'll ask then, too, we've seen in your career how you'll get on runs and just be hot.   Can you explain that, how that works?   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Well, the guys say I'm pretty hot all the time.   (Laughter.)  
But if you're referring to my golf game, like I said, I think I feel the more I play, the more rounds I put together, the better I usually score.   
For me, I usually play better at the end of a stretch than the beginning.   I've always been like that.   That's always how the beginning of the year is for me.   Takes a little while before I kind of get going.  
No, just grinding it out.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned earlier how you've been feeling a bit tired and had a hectic program.   Were you uncertain how your form would be in today's round?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Mmmm, yeah.   Yeah, always kind of feel‑‑ I know where I was at.   I mean, I'm starting to get tired; at the same time, it's not a problem firing up the adrenaline.  
It's easier on a day like today than in the Pro‑Am.   That adrenaline gets you going and the gets concentration up.   The whole event last week took a lot of energy; at the same time, it gives you a lot of energy, too.   You see how everything works, actually use our sport help others.   
So it's just different emotions, different feelings, but it all adds up to a pretty good status as of now.   
MODERATOR:   Anything else?   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Craig, you have any questions over there?   He's Tweeting.   
MODERATOR:   All right, thanks for coming in.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT