SAFEWAY CLASSIC PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
August 31, 2013
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   2‑under par round.   Typically that would be good, but I know scores are low today.   What was going on out there?   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   It wasn't that good of a round for me.   Shame I kind of bogeyed 17, but I had a few chances.   I had a lot of good putts.   I felt like the greens were a lot more bumpy coming in last, but just really glad there's one more day because there's still another low round in me.  
   
 Q.   What do you think the main difference was between the first two rounds and today?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Today I probably missed a few more putts that I felt like were kind of solid over the last two days, but overall I was just a little bit off, and it's just enough that it's not like 6‑under the first two rounds.  
   
 Q.   You won this event, granted not on the same golf course, but coming from 10 behind.   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yeah, I'm a little bit closer than 10.   Fun to see Yani playing well.   Really good to see her name up there.   Hopefully I'll be in the last group so we can play together and get some bets going.  
   
 Q.   I know you two are pretty good friends.   You hang out a lot outside of the golf course.   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yeah, I mean, I'd rather‑‑ there's no one that I'd rather see playing better and playing well again than Yani.   I know she's been through a very rough patch.   Like I said to her, she's just got to stay patient.   She's too good not to kind of hang tough and be in the game.   But it's fun to see, and hopefully we'll play together.  
   
 Q.   Sophie announced yesterday that she's stepping away from the LPGA Tour.   Can you talk about the impact that she's had on the Tour?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Well, definitely all my previous Solheim partners retired, so I guess I'm next on that list.   No, I mean, I kind of knew that was coming, but it's always a bit sad once you see an announcement in the paper or on Twitter.   I've had a fantastic run with Soph.   She's been there since I joined the Tour.   She's been fantastic with me.   She's become a good friend, and I'll definitely stay in touch with her, even though she's not out here.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT