SAFEWAY CLASSIC PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
August 30, 2013
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Lowest round of the year so far. 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yeah, that might actually be, yeah.   Today was a very‑‑ it was a great round on the greens.   I kind of fed off Beatriz's start.   She had five pretty quick birdies.   It was kind of nice to get everyone going early.   Compared to yesterday I decided when I made the turn to just kind of keep giving myself looks, keep giving myself chances, and every time‑‑ I pretty much made every good look that I had.   One of my better putting performances here.

Q.   I know coming off the 18th green you and Beatriz were speaking in Norwegian a little bit.   How nice is that?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   No, it's kind of nice.   She just told me that every time I play with her, I play so well.   I don't really keep track of it.   But I definitely played good today.

Q.   You had kind of a Solheim Cup group out there.   Did you all talk about it at all?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yesterday we were just trying to keep up with the group in front of us, so it kind of took a while before everyone kind of loosened up.   Obviously it's very nice, good friends of yours, you want them to play very well, as well, and I think it just gives you a little bit of an easy atmosphere out there, as well.

Q.   Did the course play any different today than yesterday, or was it about the same?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   It's very receptive.   The greens are so soft, it feels like you're throwing darts in there.   And obviously the greens are just a little bit more pure in the morning.   In the afternoon when they're this soft, they just get a lot of footprints and a little bit more bouncier.   But overall very playable this morning. 

Q.   Does it look like it's going to be like this the entire weekend, where it's going to take some ridiculous number to win this thing?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yeah, I think so.   I think it's going to be a birdie‑fest. 

Q.   Have you played with Pornanong before?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I probably have, yeah.   She's been on Tour for a couple years, two, three years, and she's a great player from Thailand, one of many great talented talents they have from there.   It's no surprise to me to see her there.   She's at 14? 

Q.   Yeah.   When you won at Pumpkin Ridge you were like nine shots off the lead or something.   Do you like front running or being in the lead?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I really don't care as long as you get the job done.   You play so many tournaments over the year where you kind of face all different kinds of situations, positions.   You're really just trying to play your best.   This is a great start for me.   13‑under par after two days, I'll take that any week.   I think, like I said, if the weather stays like this, it's going to be quite a softish course and very receptive. 

Q.   You've had a pretty good run of I guess three weeks of tournaments.   How are you feeling? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I've been feeling good.   I'm glad it's only two more days.   As long as you've got the adrenaline, it's not a problem to keep going.   I think next week once I have a week off‑‑ well, not quite a week off, but once I don't have a tournament, I think the air might go out probably quite quick the first couple days.   But this is why we train.   This is why we kind of keep up with the fitness, to get through weeks and stretches like this.

Q.   You and Beatriz were paired together in Solheim, right?
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yep.

Q.   What was that experience like?   I know you're a fierce competitor. 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   From early on this season I was kind of trying to look at potential partners for the Solheim, and after seeing her play in Hawai'i, getting to know her game, I said, she is definitely a player I would love to be paired with.   She has a very tough mentality.   She's a grinder.   She'll never quit on you.   And that just showed today.   She didn't have the best start yesterday and kind of bounced back, and today she was 6‑under or 7‑under.   She's definitely there for the future to come. 

Q.   Any particular hole today get you going at all that you can remember? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   No, but I thought 18 was a good birdie for me out of the bunker, fairway bunker.   That's always nice to finish with a birdie on the last. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT