CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 24, 2013
Caroline Hedwall
Brittany Lincicome
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Good afternoon, everyone.   We'd like to welcome in, I guess, one of our hottest pairings of the day.   Everybody seemed to play pretty well out there in this group.   We've got Brittany Lincicome to my immediate left at 8‑under par; next to her is Caroline Hedwall, our current leader at 10‑under par; and then Suzann Pettersen, who is at 9‑under par.   Congratulations, ladies.   A great day out there.   Take me through what's it like when you're playing in a group and everybody is that far under par.   Is it kind of one of those things where you're feeding off one another? 
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   Absolutely.   I shot 66 today and got beat badly by these two.   Even from the first hole, from the very start of the day we were draining birdies, and I kind of was making my own little inside jokes about our group.   We were 8‑under after 8, 9‑under after 9, and kind of playing match play with everyone else. 
I had a great time.   I don't know about them, but it was just fun to kind of hang out and I think the chatter and the laughter out there kept it light out there, and we made a lot of birdies. 
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Yeah, it was definitely inspiring playing with Suzann and Brittany today.   We hit it close and we made a lot of putts, so it was a lot of fun. 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I don't know what to say.   I think we're all very comfortable with the pairing.   Nice to play with aggressive players to kind of keep wanting it and kind of keep attacking the pins, like towards the end where you can get a bit tired and a bit worn out.   But I think we all played very good today, and it would be nice to come down the stretch battling Caroline and Lincicome tomorrow. 
THE MODERATOR:   All three of you took part in the Solheim Cup last week, which we all know is a long, exhausting week, but no one is really showing any signs of fatigue.   Is it actually helping you this week or how has that affected your play coming back into a stroke‑play event? 
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Well, I was a little tired on Monday, Tuesday and also Wednesday, but when the tournament starts I think last week just gave me a lot of energy and self‑confidence, so I can't feel anything. 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I just feel like from a general standpoint usually coming off of Solheim where your mindset is such an aggressive mode that you usually feed off pretty well the following week because you kind of keep wanting to make putts.   You're kind of in that kind of frame of mind.   This is why we work at it, this is why we train.   I'm totally fine.   I'm not tired at all. 
THE MODERATOR:   Caroline, speaking of that, 5‑0 record last week at the Solheim Cup, first player ever to win five points in a Solheim.   What kind of reaction have you heard from other players as to what you were able to accomplish? 
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Well, I've heard back in Sweden it's been pretty big, since not even Annika could do that.   That's what we have to do; we have to beat Annika to get any attention in Sweden. 
I mean, it was a lot of fun, and I was just happy that I could win my five points. 

Q.   For the two members of the European team, can you give us an indication of how late the partying went on Sunday, when did you get here and when did you start to feel normal again? 
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   They're still partying.   What are you talking about? 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I mean, usually when we lose we win the party, but this time when we won on American soil, I definitely think we won the party. 
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   I heard some people went to bed at 4:00 a.m., but that's just me. 

Q.   When did you guys arrive in Edmonton? 
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   We were all on the same flight.   I think we arrived at like 2:00 p.m. on Monday. 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Monday was a wash.
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   Yeah.   I did nothing.
THE MODERATOR:   I saw a lot of Tweets about how much sleep everybody was getting the first couple nights.   What were kind of the most dramatic sleep periods that you had? 
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   That's nothing new for me. 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I don't know, combined partying and the lack of sleep and the kind of shape you're in on Monday, I think I checked into the hotel at 3:00, crashed at 3:10 and woke up at 10:00, flipped around and slept until 8:00 the next morning.   I think I knocked out pretty much the sleep that I needed right there. 
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   I think I needed nine hours of sleep and I was back.   I'm young, though. 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   We're still young, though; at least I think I am. 

Q.   Brittany, looks like you got your birdie game in gear today.   You only had six in the first two rounds and then six today.   What changed? 
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   Putting for sure.   I mean, the last‑‑ Thursday and Friday I did the same exact things I did today, I just could not make a putt, and today everything kind of seemed a lot easier.   Things were going in and rolling the way I wanted them to.   Hopefully that sticks around for tomorrow so I can keep up with these two again. 

Q.   Caroline, you had seven birdies and just one blemish on the scorecard.   Talk about your round a little bit. 
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   To be honest I don't really remember my round.   I have no idea where I make birdies.   I just remember making a bogey.   I hit it over the green and had a pretty good chip, I just didn't make the putt. 

Q.   You were satisfied, obviously, with the round today? 
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Yeah, I mean, I think I gave myself a lot of birdie opportunities and I made quite a lot of them.   But you always think that you could have made a couple more.   But I'm really happy with my round. 

Q.   Caroline, both Suzann and Brittany have won here before.   You're still looking for your first LPGA, but you've won on the ladies European Tour, so what's your mindset going into tomorrow knowing that these two have done this before? 
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Well, I'm just looking forward to tomorrow.   It will be exciting playing in the last group hopefully.   I won on the European Tour, now I'm just waiting for my first LPGA victory.   We'll see, hopefully it comes tomorrow. 
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   It'll come. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you very much for joining us. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT