NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS VS. HEAT
September 21, 2020
Grant Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  Q. Grant, two questions for you.  How do you view the time off, blessing or curse, in the sense of the regularity of play every other day versus being able to recalibrate body and mind in the time off?  And then secondly, your feeling of how you clearly got the Heat's attention with those 60 points in the paint, how they'll respond and how you'll have to counter.
 GRANT WILLIAMS:   Well, I think it's just how you view it.  If you approach it as a blessing,  then that's how it'll be looking forward.  It's good to get these days off and be able to recoup and understand what we did in the past three games, as well as preparing for this next one moving forward.
 I know they're going to probably make a bunch of adjustments with the time that we have and we'll do the same.  When it comes to the Heat, you know they're a talented team, they're a team that will continue to fight, claw their way into any game no matter who they're playing.
 So us just being prepared to not only take that punch from them, but also throw a blow back ourselves.
 Q. Bam gave you guys some issues in the second half there with the handoff and the slips on the screens there.  How challenging is that for you as a big there to handle that with trying to be on the shooters and protecting against that?
 GRANT WILLIAMS:   Yeah, he's a super talented player.  He's a guy I've known my whole life.  He does a good job of playing with the guys around him.  He's surrounded by a bunch of shooters, so when you get so focused on them, next thing you know, it opens up slips or fake handoffs for him, and Kelly and guys like that.
 We just have to do a better job of understanding what we're doing in those certain situations, with coverages as well as how we're defending him with not only just ball pressure, but also with being able to guard the guys running off every screen.
 Q. You mentioned knowing Bam for a while; what do you remember about beating him in the State Championship game and kind of getting one up on him?
 GRANT WILLIAMS:   He's improved so much.  We were actually talking about this with my father the other night.  He's improved so much in his game.  Back when we were younger he was somebody you could predict where he's going, maybe take a charge or be in position.  As a guy as strong as myself I was able to be physically not be pushed around as much.
 But now you kind of have to guard a lot of different things.  His hook shot from his right hand.  He's explosive going both ways.  He's able to not only physically muster his way through, but also athletically he moves I think a little bit better than he used to, as well.  He's kind of got his body in shape.
 Definitely looking back on that, it probably doesn't mean much.  We always tease each other, or I tease him more so, because I'm always like, Oh, what's the record in our career?  But then next thing you know, he's done a good job of getting that thing either back to even -- I don't know what it is now -- but it's definitely an experience that it's cool to be able to be in this position with him, playing against him.  It's the best moving forward.  Whoever makes it, you've got to be pat on the back to the other man.
 Q. Two-part question.  First off, how did you kind of sucking in and then popping out to the corners help you guys break the zone?  And second, when you beat Jaylen in rock paper scissors before the game, what made you choose scissors?
 GRANT WILLIAMS:   The first one, I think that it just gives you a different dynamic.  We have a lot of guys who are able to do a lot of different things, so myself to be able to space the floor as well as relocate myself to knock down an open three or just drive again is big time.
 We have guys like Rob [Williams], Theis, Enes who can either play low, play the ducker, and get a rebound or catch a lob.  So just gives a different dynamic.
 And then when it comes rock, paper, scissors thing, I always try and call it out before it happens so I can tell J.B. if he wins or loses.  I think my record is honestly like 26-2 if anything.  J.B. has no chance right now.
 If he wins next game, I'm going to hold my tongue.  But keep your eye out, because I think he's going to lose again.
 Q. Grant, when you guys were down 0-2 and in need of a spark, how much does it help to have the vocal leadership of Marcus Smart to help light a fire for you guys?
 GRANT WILLIAMS:   I love how the term vocal leadership is there.  Man, he's our heart and soul.  He's the guy that keeps us going and keeps us inspired, keeps us being competitive.  He's our dog.
 You just have to follow his lead and trust that we have a lot of guys on this team that can do a lot of great things.  He's just going to compete his butt off and we follow that standard, follow that lead, and I think we'll be well set off.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT