WACHOVIA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 6, 2006
Jay Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Nice round.
JAY HAAS:  Thank you.  Yeah, I did a lot of good things.  Been doing a lot of good things on the course the last few weeks, and today I made eight birdies and an eagle and three bogeys.  It was up and down a little bit.  I'm a little disappointed.  I thought Bill would par the last hole and I would par and we'd play together tomorrow.  Both of us bogeyed and it looks like we're going to miss by a group.  It was a pretty magical day really.
Q.  You've played this course before.  Is this the best round you've played here?
JAY HAAS:  Since they changed the course.  I played here 25 years ago and it was a totally different golf course.  Yeah, that's as good as I can do here, I think.
Q.  How do you like your chances tomorrow?
JAY HAAS:  Well, another one of those and I could threaten, I guess, but I don't know.  I'm whooped, I'll tell you.  We stood on the 9th tee there waiting on the group    we were a twosome, last group off, waited every shot, and I got kind of worn out sitting there and didn't hit a very good drive at 9 and ended up with a bogey.  I'm going to try.  I'm going to go out and try tomorrow and see what happens.
Q.  You've been saying lately that the Champions Tour is where you belong.  Do you want to reevaluate?
JAY HAAS:  No, I really don't, I'll tell you.  We'll wait and see tomorrow.  Who knows what's going to happen tomorrow.  I've enjoyed my time out here, and I'm going to play a couple more events here.  I'm just glad to get to the weekend and then play a good round.  I missed a couple cuts, played terribly at the Heritage this year, was really disappointed with that.  This has just been a real fun week.
Q.  Going to be a long day tomorrow.
JAY HAAS:  Well, it'll be shorter than it was today.  I played 26 holes today and stood around a lot and everything.  Yeah, hopefully, we'll see.
Q.  Good decision on moving it up tomorrow?
JAY HAAS:  Probably.  It looks like    they say it's going to get progressively worse as the day goes on, so I would think that would be the thing to do.  Hopefully we'll get most of it in without much rain.
Q.  You and your sons in the tournament together were such a great story.  Would you have imagined it would have gotten this good?
JAY HAAS:  No, I was just trying to make the cut.  I played really well this morning six or eight holes finishing up and made the cut on the number.  That was all I wanted to do, and figured I'd play in the morning and figured I'd watch Bill in the afternoon.  He can watch me tomorrow; I'll be in the group right in front of him.

It's been a great week.  I love Quail Hollow, Wachovia has done an unbelievable job, and this is just a cherry on top of the cake right here.
Q.  You also mentioned on Thursday about last year you guys all lived together in the same place.  This year you're living separately.
JAY HAAS:  Right.  I think that Jay, Jr., was rooming with a real good friend, and they were both trying to qualify on Monday, Scott Sniff, who's a member here, he knew Jay made it.  I said why don't you come with me, and he said, no, I'm having a good time over there.  And then Bill moved.  We obviously are pulling for each other.  We don't have to be in the same place or anything like that.  I don't know that that was good or bad, it was just the way it worked out.
Q.  What have you been doing after your rounds?  Are you guys getting together?
JAY HAAS:  Yeah, we've had dinner most every night.  Last year it was just Bill and I because we were out here late and Jay had gone.  He played early in the morning, so he was out.  He went to that Huey Lewis thing last night.  Bill and I knew we had to get up early and play this morning, so we packed it in and got something quick and went back to the room.
Q.  What will you do tonight?
JAY HAAS:  I'm going to be horizontal, I think, in a short time here.  My legs and feet are aching me.  Hopefully I'll get some good rest tomorrow and have a good day again tomorrow.
Q.  Does it help knowing this course?
JAY HAAS:  I think it helps, sure.  I think it can only help anybody, but at the same time, you still have to be able to hit the shots.  I played very well today and did a lot of good things.  But sometimes knowing where the trouble is can hurt you, too.  You kind of shy away from it, play too defensively and all that, but it certainly helps me.  Just certain holes you know you can't go long here, to the right here, all that stuff.  That helped me a little bit.  But again, I played pretty well today.  Whether I knew the course or not, it would have been a good score.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT