WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 25, 2005
Jay Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JAY HAAS:  I just stayed on him, I didn't give him any holes, and in match play you cannot give away holes, at least I can't.
Q.  (Inaudible).
JAY HAAS:  The course has dried out quite a bit.  There are some areas that are going to take a long time to dry out, but generally speaking, it's getting drier each day we get out here.  Hopefully we'll get more sunshine like this, and it will firm up a little bit.

It's not going to firm up like it was maybe a week ago, but it's certainly playable now.  Hopefully they can get out and cut the fairways soon.
Q.  Any thoughts about should the event be going this time of year right here?
JAY HAAS:  What's it rain here, six inches a year, three inches a year, whatever?  It's just unusual, it's just one of those things.  And it's just unfortunate, I think, people are saying they've got to go somewhere else.  I don't agree with that.  It's not too tough living here at LaCosta Resort and Spa.
Q.  Was there a turning point in your mind, a key point in the match?
JAY HAAS:  I won't say a key point, probably    there were a lot of turning points.  I guess the first hole my ball splashed in the water, popped out and I made a great 4 there to halve the hole.  I won the 4th hole with a birdie, a nice shot.  I made a nice birdie at 7 and then 8.

If you can say 8's a turning point, he's capable of knocking it on the green in two.  He drove in the rough, I hit two good shots up there.  His second shot went in the water and ended up getting six.  He kind of gave me the hole there.  I had about a 10 footer for birdie, I might have made that, but that hole.

And then No. 11, he three putted.  He could reach the green in two.  I had laid up 175 yards and hit my third shot from 175.  He was going to reach the green in two and he missed the green, pitched it on 20 feet and ended up three putting, and I ended up winning the hole.

So that was probably, from 1 up to 2 up, looks like I'm going back to even, that little cushion was a big thing.
Q.  You did a good job not giving him anything?
JAY HAAS:  Exactly.  Like this last hole, here, I hit a puller first putt, you get fooled on the speed a little bit but then hit a beautiful second putt from about eight feet.  That's what you need to do out here, you've got to make the putts.  When you have a chance, you have to take advantage of them.
Q.  A day like today, is it better to get right out there and play another match, or would you rather relax a little bit?
JAY HAAS:  I'm glad to be putting my feet up a little bit.  I have an hour and a half before my next match.  I'm not saying at 51 I'm in good shape like I was at 30.  So I need a little bit of rest time here, and I'm just glad to be moving on, glad to have that problem.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT