THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
November 7, 2004
Jay Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Did you think the leader would come out of your group?
JAY HAAS:  You know, I really did think so.  Both Tiger and I had been playing pretty well.  I started off pretty much like I had been playing the whole week, the first six, seven holes.  7th hole I hit a bad iron shot, missed the green there, and that kind of got me defensive, lost my confidence, I don't know what, but from then on it was kind of a struggle with my long game.  I was hanging in there, but my putter let me down toward the end.

Yeah, I thought one of us was going to win, and I looked up and I saw Retief was playing well early, and both of us were a couple over and we kind of let those guys back in, and obviously Retief played a great round.

The course probably played as easy as it was going to play today.  The greens were very quick, but no wind to speak of, probably played as easy as it could have all week, and I just didn't have it.
Q.  (Inaudible).
JAY HAAS:  It's hard to look back on the whole thing and get past today, you know.  As I was just saying, I think that when I play rounds like I did the first three days, I feel like I can still do this, and when I play like I did today, I feel like I'm done and I can't do this anymore.  You know, I've had bad rounds in the past and it's just disappointing that it came today.

Again, I really felt like I had visions of coming to the last hole and needing a par to win the tournament.  That was kind of what I felt like I needed to do.

You know, I hit some extra 5-woods on the practice tee this morning and felt like it was going to come down to me and somebody.  I just felt like I was going to be in there.  It's very disappointing not to have that happen.
Q.  As far as the crowd support this week, you were playing with Tiger.  What did you think?
JAY HAAS:  They were great.  I think that they were looking for an oddity, I guess, and maybe I was that oddity.  They were great fans.  I thought they did an outstanding job with the entire tournament.  Yeah, the fans were definitely pulling as much for me as they were for Tiger, I think.
Q.  You guys have played a lot of practice rounds together that you're so comfortable.  Was today anything like that?
JAY HAAS:  It could have been a detriment to one of us or both of us.  Maybe as we were trying to work up a hate for each other, it wasn't there.  You know, Tiger struggled a little bit with his long game, with his driver.  He couldn't attack really that great.  Except for a couple of putts my putter let me down and then I started hitting some crazy shots.

I love playing with him and would love to be in a Sunday group with him every Sunday when he's playing because it's going to be close to the lead.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT