JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 10, 2004
Jay Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
Talk about your decision in terms of playing here as opposed to playing at the Champions Tour.
JAY HAAS:  Well, I guess -- I had a great time playing at the PGA seniors.  I had a chance to see all the guys I hadn't seen in a while, and I played very well today, but I guess the two main reasons I'm playing here, number one, my son Bill is playing here, and also, if I play well, I could possibly get some Ryder Cup points.  That's kind of first and foremost in my mind that year.
Q.  Has your play validated that decision?
JAY HAAS:  I think so.  I've played very well.  I'm not as high up as I'd like to be, but something in the mid-60s would be nice.

I'm in position, but I've still got to play well tomorrow.
Q.  The condition of the course obviously favors low scoring.  Does that help your mindset?  You're five strokes back of the lead.
JAY HAAS:  Right.  You know, you could see as we started off the tournament the greens were soft and the course was running a little bit, and the scores were going to be low.  You've got the mindset going you've got to shoot at flags, and it'll be no different tomorrow.

There's so many guys 11, 10, 9, 8, it's all just packed in there, so someone in that bunch, a good round could jump right in there.
JAY HAAS:  The course is probably playing right into his hands.  Any of these guys, they play well and get hot putters, they can go low.
Q.  4-under today kind of what you were looking for?
JAY HAAS:  Well, no, I was looking for something a lot lower than that, but I'm never unhappy with 67.  That's pretty good for me.
Q.  Is that where you want to be going into tomorrow?
JAY HAAS:  Well, I'd like to be a little closer to Jose, but I'm in the Top 10 going into tomorrow, and hopefully I can shoot 5, 6, 7-under tomorrow.  I'm obviously going to have to play very well.  The pins will be a little bit tougher tomorrow, Sunday and all that stuff, but I've been playing very well.  Hopefully I can get some -- it's a long day, so hopefully I'll get some rest tonight, come out tomorrow ready.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT