BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 25, 2004
Jay Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









TODD BUDNICK:  Third place this year after your runner-up last year here.  If you had one shot to get back today, is there one in particular.

JAY HAAS:   Maybe the shot at No. 1, my second shot.  I drove it perfectly.  I had 122 yards, something like that and was trying to cut a little wedge in there and just overcut it a little bit.  Probably missed carrying it by a foot and a half two, feet to maybe eight or ten feet and missed the green long, chipped, missed the putt and made bogey. 

I made another bogey at 7.  I pulled my drive and went in the left rough and got up there but didn't get up-and-down.  I did some good things.  I could have done it.  Not a question by any means. 

Skip played beautifully.  He got up-and-down when he needed to.  He did what he had to do.  He made a beautiful birdie at 18.  I thought, I don't know, felt like I was going to chip that one in on the last hole. 

I hung in there.  Hit some real nice shots down the stretch.  Hit a beautiful put at 16 and didn't go in. 

And 17, I thought I made a putt 25 feet behind the hole.  That's all I can ask, is to give myself an opportunity. 


Q. Is this a similar feeling to what you said last year when you weren't  -- didn't feel like you gave it away? 

JAY HAAS:   Yeah, probably.  I feel like I probably played better than I did last year.  Although it was a really tough day.  Wind blew a lot last year and I had 69 the last day.  This was a good score. 

But all week, I've played about as well as I've played, I think.  One little stretch at La Quinta, maybe the front nine there, my second nine that day, I didn't play very well.  But I hit a lot of good shots, a lot of solid shots.  You know, I guess I feel pretty good.  Again, I don't feel like I lost.  I thought I needed to make even either 2-4 or 3-3 going into 17, and I was right. 


Q. Not that you're looking for reinforcement, but does this reinforce your belief that this is the Tour you need to be on this year? 

JAY HAAS:   Yeah, this is pretty satisfying, I guess, pretty gratifying that I came out and, I won't say backed up what I was saying, but like I said, I don't feel a lot different than I did last year and I didn't feel that much different from the year before. 

I am 50.  It's easier to say than a 49-year-old, I guess.  Get a little bit of that this year. 

My ultimate goal is to make the Ryder Cup team.  This is a good start.  I got some good points today.  I sure would have liked to have been going down that 18th hole right now, though. 


Q. Did you notice any difference in the greens today?  Were they as true as they have been?

JAY HAAS:   Yeah, I thought.  So I thought they were great again.  They are getting very firm.  I don't know if they were like this the first day, the first couple of days at this golf course.  They were tough.  There was some tough pins.  Tough to get the ball close to the hole.  I'm not a long hitter so I'm hitting a few holes, I'm hitting some longer shots in there and it's hitting and skidding and running into the back. 

I'm kind of amazed at the scores of this golf course.  I just don't think it's that easy.  Starting with No.  9, I was telling Billy, almost every shot you hit, besides maybe No. 11, and 12 doesn't have water but it's a 4-iron shot.  Almost every shot you hit is a difficult shot, it's water, out-of-bounds, bunker, whatever. 

You've got to play well here, I think. 

TODD BUDNICK:  If you can just go through the card, your eagle. 

JAY HAAS:   1, I missed the green and chipped long about 15 feet and missed it.

2, I hit a 3-iron just over the green and hit the shot of the week, really.  It was not a long chip shot, 30, 40 feet maybe, but it just trickled in on the last roll and that kind of got me going back the right way. 

Made a nice birdie at 6 from just the back edge of the green, maybe 15 feet. 

7, I drove it in the left rough just short and chipped by about 15 feet and I missed it. 

8, I made about a 15-footer after hitting a sand wedge. 

11, I hit it on with a 3-iron about 15 feet and I thought I had made that putt.  It just rolled over the edge.  Tapped in for birdie. 

15, I hit 9-iron to about 18 feet and made that. 

18, I hit it just over the green and pitched back about five feet and made that. 


Q. What was the club on your second shot?

JAY HAAS:   I hit 5-wood.  I wanted to hit a 3-iron, but I was just a little on the downslope.  If I had maybe three or four shots at it I probably would have tried a 3-iron with one of them.  I hit it just a little hot and it got through the green there. 

I had a relatively simple pitch, but I just doesn't have much green to shoot to. 


Q. What are your thoughts about Skip Kendall as a player? 

JAY HAAS:   I love Skip, the way he plays, his game.  He plays within himself.  He's not a long hitter.  He's a beautiful putter and pitcher of the ball, chipper.  You know, if you put he and Phil together, you would say  -- well, it's like the Michael Jordan and Mark Price comparison, I guess.  Mark's made a lot of good shots. 


Q. What would it say about Phil, after having not played a tournament in so long, to be able to win?

JAY HAAS:   I guess all of us felt like last year was pretty much not Phil, not the Phil that we know.  What he's doing this week doesn't surprise me at all.  I think it will say a lot for him.  I think -- he didn't like last year, and that's good. That's a good thing for him.  He's doing what he needs to do.  That would say quite a bit. 

TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you, Jay. 


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT