BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 24, 2004
Jay Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TODD BUDNICK:  Thanks for joining us after your 5-under 67 today.  Four rounds in the 60s, and for the third straight year you are in contention heading into Sunday. 

JAY HAAS:   I obviously hoped for this coming into this week.  I didn't really know what to expect.  Just had not played since Tiger's event in December. 

I don't know, I always enjoy playing here.  I feel comfortable.  I got off to a really good start on Wednesday and it kind of got me in the birdie mode.  I played very well today.  I didn't go real low like some guys have, but I hit a lot of good shots and stayed in the hunt, I guess.  Stayed within shouting distance of Phil and Kenny, whoever else is up there. 

We were probably pretty fortunate to play this course today without much wind, although it wasn't real hot, the wind wasn't really a factor like I'm sure it has been the last couple of days.

TODD BUDNICK:  Is it any benefit for you being the only one in the group to have played here and then come back and play this course again tomorrow? 

JAY HAAS:   Not necessarily.  I would think it's played relatively the same the whole week.  The greens were very firm out here, which they have been pretty firm at all of the courses.  They have been very consistent.  I think Bermuda Dunes greens were probably a little slower than the rest.  That was my first day. 

The courses have all been pretty much the same.  So 60-low tomorrow is what it's going to take. 


Q. I think we probably talked about this last year, but you've been so close the last couple of years here, do you feel like you're owed anything here?

JAY HAAS:   Not necessarily.  I guess I feel fortunate that I've been able to do it three years in a row and contend.  I was very disappointed two years ago when I shot, I don't know, 73 or 74 or 75 in the last round and just played awful. 

Last year, I was disappointed but not as devastated as I was the year before.  I felt like Mike beat me last year, and obviously I didn't finish the way I wanted to on 18 there, but I played very well.  I hit a lot of good shots under pressure on a tough day.  Scores were not good the last day last year.  So I felt like I accomplished something last year. 

But as far as owing me anything, I don't think so.  I've been a lot under the last three years here, and I guess I wish I could save one of those low rounds I had two years ago and stick it in tomorrow.  I just need to go out and try to play aggressively like I have for the last few years here. 


Q. I think three of the top four guys on the leaderboard right now have won this tournament before, you, Mickelson and Kenny Perry.  Is experience on these golf courses all that important?  I mean, everybody shoots low but to be in contention?

JAY HAAS:   Yes and no.  As I said, I feel very comfortable out there.  I kind of know where  -- I don't really like to look ahead but I know certain courses and I've got a couple par 5s left and a couple par 4s that are wedge holes and things like that.  So if I get a streak where I make a few pars or even a bogey, I guess I feel like I shouldn't panic because there's so many holes that you can birdie out here.  Basically, 1 through 18, like any golf course, but especially here, you can get them. 

Experience I think is important at any course, any tournament that we play.  But maybe with the Amateurs and four different golf courses, all of that rigmarole that some of the younger guys maybe are not as used to, that may be a benefit. 


Q. This may be old ground, too, but are you surprised at how well you're playing? 

JAY HAAS:   I think I told somebody last year that I'm not surprised when I play well and I'm not surprised when I play poorly.  I think it's just the nature of the game. 

As a golfer, we always think, or I always think, that I could have done better.  No matter, unless you win the golf tournament or make a hole-in-one or whatever, we always think that we could hit the shot better or shot a little bit lower. 

So, you know, I guess I'm surprised that I had one of my best years at 49.  But, a few years ago, in 2000, when I finished 146th on the Money List, I didn't think that was where I should have been, either. 

Now, 15th last year, if somebody would have bet me that I would have finished in the Top-20 on the Money List, I don't know if I would have taken the bet.  But I guess to beat around the bush, a long-winded answer, no, I guess I'm not really surprised.

TODD BUDNICK:  Your birdies today.

JAY HAAS:   I started on 10. 

Birdied 13.  I hit a 7-iron to about 15 feet. 

15, I hit a 9-iron to maybe 25 feet. 

18, I hit a bunker shot from the right of the green to maybe 12 feet and made that. 

2, I 2-putted.  I hit a 3-iron 45 feet from the hole and 2-putted. 

8, I hit a sand wedge to about 3 1/2 feet. 

TODD BUDNICK:  Good luck tomorrow. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT