GREATER HARTFORD OPEN
July 25, 2003
Jay Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you, Jay, for coming in today after 2-under 68.  Very steady round and your only bogey of the tournament so far was a short 2-footer.

JAY HAAS:  Right, I hit the ball almost as well today as I did yesterday.  I hit a couple of wayward drives in the middle of my round but overall it was good ball-striking round today.  I just didn't make the putts that I made yesterday.  I had a good stretch of holes there.  I made a 10-footer for a par save.  Then about a 15-footer for birdie and a 30-footer for birdie in a four-hole stretch there and almost made the putt at 8, ran it by two feet, not even two feet and hit a terrible putt.  That was disappointing, I wasn't thinking about making a bogey, just hitting a shot like that, I hate to give one away.  That was disappointing.  I played well hit a lot of good shots.  I'm anxious to get ready for tomorrow.

TODD BUDNICK:  You shoot a 63 yesterday, you birdied the first hole then you go into 10 or so pars in a row, is that frustration?

JAY HAAS:  Not really.  I haven't had it that close.  I missed a real makeable putt at No. 14, maybe 12 feet or so.  15, I had it about 15 feet.  17 and 18 maybe 15, 16 feet.  I had chances.  I made those yesterday.  But at the same time I wasn't hitting good putts.  I don't know, I kept feeling like if I hit the ball, kept getting those putts, they would eventually drop.  Again I'm just happy to be hitting the fairways.  I missed the fairway at 2, 3 and 4.  I hit one right, one left and one right.  I was a little flustered there then I hit some good shots coming in.  I feel ready for tomorrow.


Q.  Jay when is the last time have you been paired with Peter and do you have a distant memory from younger days?

JAY HAAS:  You know, on the weekend, you know, I don't know when the last time we were paired together coming down the stretch and both having a chance to win.  We were paired together at Memphis this year, and I shot 64 the first round there playing with him.  I enjoyed playing with Peter, I enjoyed talking.  I'm sure there won't be a shortage of that tomorrow. 


Q.  Jay, are you surprised the conditions were benign, so to speak, that 10-under is leading at this point?

JAY HAAS:  Yes, but I think this is a pretty difficult golf course.  For a par 70, you know, 67, 68 and 69, you see a lot of those.  You will see occasionally -- we shot 63 yesterday.  I think there was one or two today.  But it's just not a pushover by any means.  If you play well, obviously, anywhere, you can shoot a good score, but the greens are pretty tricky here.  They could put the pins in some pretty difficult places.  They are starting to firm up.  I think you are seeing that a little bit. 

We were pretty fortunate in our segment, I think, morning yesterday, afternoon today, you will probably see a little discrepancy in who made the cut.  I thought yesterday afternoon the scores were not very good. 

I think Dennis Paulson shooting 6-under yesterday was a pretty damn good score.  I think if you don't get any rain, the scores will start to taper off a little bit.


Q.  It's hard not to keep track of each other, did you notice what he was doing?

JAY HAAS:  Yes, I saw that he was -- I birdied early and I saw he hit it pretty close, maybe 14 he made a birdie to go to 8-under and then he birdied 17 and maybe 18.  I don't know.  All of a sudden --


Q.  All of a sudden you are 3 behind?

JAY HAAS:  Yes, and I just -- I made the one birdie and finally made a birdie at No.  5 to get to 9-under so I felt a little better about that.  I knew what he was doing.  Again, the leaderboard is everywhere.  I like looking at leaderboards.  Some people don't like to look at them.  I enjoy seeing my name up there, it gives me confidence.


Q.  You noticed him at 3 ahead?

JAY HAAS:  Yes, I guess my feeling is 10-under is probably not going to win the tournament, so I need to be lower than that.  I can't think about who is ahead or how many is ahead I need to just keep making birdies.


Q.  What did you think of Suzy Whaley's showing here?

JAY HAAS:  I thought yesterday's round was way better than my round yesterday for her.  I think that's outstanding golf.  I don't know, I can't say enough about that 75 that she shot.  I think that was terrific.  I don't know what she ended with today.  No matter what she thought, it was wonderful.  I thought it was great.  The first hole walking off the green she looked like she just one Miss America and she just made 6.  I think that's wonderful.  I don't think you have ever seen a male professional golfer have a big grin on his face after making a 60 on the very first hole of the tournament.  I thought she gets an A-plus in my book.


Q.  Do you think that between Annika and her that this is good for golf, men's golf, women's golf?

JAY HAAS:  I guess I don't think of it in those terms whether it's good, bad or indifferent.  Good for her I think.  My goodness, you know, that's like, you know, I shoot free throws occasionally.  It's like me going into an NBA game and getting 6 points or something.  Maybe that's not a great analogy.  She was out of her element here and to do what she did is just outstanding.  I guess I don't try to figure it out whether it's good or bad.  And that's maybe vanilla that I don't have an opinion on it. Jacobson is here now. 

PETER JACOBSEN:   I'm told I need to sit down.


Q.  Especially since she is a club pro, is that what you mean out of her element?

JAY HAAS:  No, you saw her stats, her driving distance is pretty good.  But prior to the tournament she says she hits her driver 225. I mean, you know, to shoot 75, and basically this guy hitting a 3-iron off of every tee.  That's a disadvantage.  She hadn't played in that many LPGA events, and the men's tournament, all of the hoopla and everything, all of the pressure involved in that, I just thought it was outstanding. 

Did I say anything stupid there?  Am I going to get crucified for any of that stuff?

PETER JACOBSEN:  That was good.  Just as you wrote it. 

TODD BUDNICK:  Anything else for Jay?

JAY HAAS:  Get me out of here, we have the good stuff coming. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT