SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 25, 2014
Jay Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   First off, just wrap up your round. 
JAY HAAS:   You know, I played really well.   I hit a couple wayward shots today, but overall I was solid on the front nine, 3‑under on the front. 
I got it to 4‑under and then I made another bogey on No. 12 with a sand wedge from the middle of the fairway second shot.   3‑putted from the front fringe and really kind of derailed me a little bit. 
I fought back a little bit, got it to 5‑under for the day and then pushed my drive at 16 in the rough and you just can't miss the fairway on that hole.   I ended up making a bogey there.   But I did a lot of good things and still encouraged and still feel like I'm playing well. 

Q.   You're playing some of your better golf right now, you had three round under par, one even par round, so no over par rounds.   So how does that consistently playing in tournaments feel?
JAY HAAS:   I've been pretty consistent this year and I played a lot of good rounds, hit, been doing a lot of good thinks, good drives, good irons, good putts, just not quite getting over the hump and hopefully it will come soon, but I'm enjoying finishing high in the tournament, but I sure would like to win. 
I had my chances this week.   When I look back on it, although Monty's going nuts out there and kind of showing everybody that he's the new sheriff in town maybe this year, but had I been able to put a little more heat on him early, talking about the first three days, and hung with him a little bit better the first couple days, maybe it's a different story.   But I'm never satisfied, but I'm pleased with the week. 

Q.   What's next for you this year?
JAY HAAS:   I'm going to play next week in Des Moines and then we play the Legends.   Fred Couples and I are partners there.   Then I have a couple weeks off and summer, a little bit thin tournament‑wise in the summer months, but then starting middle of August on, we get pretty busy, so and I will stay busy.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT