SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 23, 2014
Jay Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about how you played today?  
JAY HAAS:   Not as sharp as yesterday, but didn't make the putts that I made yesterday.   That was a key that kept me from shooting under par.   
I 3‑putted the 11th hole, my second hole of the day and it kind of got me off on the wrong foot on the greens and I never really felt comfortable with the speed of them.   But overall made a nice birdie on No. 9, my last hole, to shoot even for the day and not be too far away from the leaders.  
   
 Q.   We heard that depending upon what hole you start on, it changes the dynamic of this golf course, did you see that at all?  
JAY HAAS:   A little bit.   But I had a nice birdie opportunity at 10 and 11 is a birdieable hole with a decent iron shot.   I think just the ride out there to the 10th hole is kind of gets us out of sorts a little bit.   A bunch of old guys get stiffened up pretty quickly sitting in the van and hitting balls 40 minutes before our next shot.   
So it's a pretty testy hole, too, much easier to start on the first hole, I think, and just walk off the putting green, the practice tee and all that.   But you have to play them all, so that's really not ‑‑ it shouldn't be an issue.  
   
 Q.   You're two off the lead right now as you stand, what do you have to do to get move closer to the top of the leaderboard?  
JAY HAAS:   I'm just going to have to putt better, my touch on my putting has not been great, and these greens are tough though.   It's hard to get a level putt.   You're going to go up‑and‑down or around and almost on every single putt that you have, unless you hit it very close.   So I either have to do one or the other, hit it closer or just putt a little bit better.   
My driving has been okay, and toward the end I started hitting some better shots, so I just need to play well.   
   
 Q.   Lastly, talk about the condition of the golf course.   
JAY HAAS:   The condition is beautiful.   It's just, there's not a mark on the fairways, other than what we have made.   The greens are beautiful.   They're a good speed.   So we shouldn't have any complaints there.   I hear the weather is going to be great, so we're all excited and I'm glad to be a couple back.  
   
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT