MISSISSIPPI GULF RESORT CLASSIC PRESENTED BY C SPIRE
March 21, 2014
Jay Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   4‑under on the day, I'm sure you're pretty happy with how things have started off?
JAY HAAS:   Yeah, this course doesn't suit me that great.   It's long, and being a little bit wet, really makes it play long for me but I really hit some good shots today.   I didn't drive it great but gave myself good opportunities and managed to get in 4‑under, so I'm really pleased. 

Q.   David was saying it makes things more fun, being competitive, how was it playing with him today?
JAY HAAS:   Yeah, I think that helps when you're playing with somebody else who is playing well, scoring well, it kind of drives you a little bit.   I wish it was the case all the time.   David played well and hit a lot of good shots.   That is fun.   At least one of us has got somebody to talk to, so if it was me playing bad, I wouldn't be talking a whole lot.

Q.   How important is it to, obviously you want to get off to this good start but with the bigger chance of rain and don't want to deal with that, how important was it to have a good first round because of that? 
JAY HAAS:   Yeah, I think Champions Tour golf, when we only have three rounds in most events, you really don't have time to play your way into the hunt so to speak.   You have to go out and prepare under fire and hopefully shoot low every day.   Getting off to a good start for me is a plus, certainly.   Don't have to catch up too much.   If Fred doesn't go too nuts out there, we'll be within shouting distance early on.
Looking at the weather, who knows what is going to happen Sunday here, so just trying to stay as close as I can.

Q.   You already touched on it, but in order to continue to play well and possibly play even better, what needs to happen? 
JAY HAAS:   For me, just keep putting the ball in the fairway and giving myself some opportunities, but I've got to cash in on the opportunities when I have them.   I didn't‑‑ you know, I putted pretty well today but I didn't make any outrageous putts for anything.   Missed maybe three or four that I felt like I left out there.   But you know, it can never be unhappy with a 68 but I just need to continue to give myself chances and hopefully I can take advantage of those. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT