SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 24, 2013
Jay Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   When you look at your round today what do you think?
JAY HAAS:   I'm disappointed with 72.   I don't feel like I played much differently than yesterday's round.   I didn't putt nearly as well.   And then around the greens I was not sharp at all.   The bladed bunker shot at 16 cost me two strokes.   Basically two strokes at the next hole too.   Didn't get up‑and‑down from a green side bunker and took me four to get up‑and‑down.   So double bogey, bogey there, that was ‑‑ neither one was an easy bunker shot, but basically cost myself two strokes right there. 
And just another short putt at number 5.   Missed a nice makeable putt at 6 and 7.   But all that being said, 4‑under after two day, I'm still pleased.   Certainly wish I was a little bit closer, but overall the way I felt‑‑ my back's starting to feel a little bit better, so I'm encouraged that it's going to get better for the weekend.

Q.   And three back with two rounds to play you're confident?
JAY HAAS:   Well, I don't want to say confident, but certainly not out of it.   That's not a, it's not a huge hill if I play well.   But the guys that are up there, they're long hitters, great players, and so they will be difficult to beat.   But I'm within striking distance, certainly need a couple rounds in the 60s, I would say.

Q.   Were conditions pretty benign?
JAY HAAS:   Beautiful day.   I can't imagine a better playing day than it was today.   The course was, is starting to dry out again continuing to get dryer as we play, so the scores were, I don't know if they're any better today, the consistency of it, throughout the field, but would I think the bulk of the players that the top of the leaderboards showed that there were quite a few 3, 4, 5‑under par.

Q.   Duffy Waldorf felt like the course was tougher today and the comment he made is, it's starting to feel more like a Major Championship. 
JAY HAAS:   Yeah, well he played the morning when it was a little cooler.   I think the course maybe played a little bit longer.   A little breezier.   But I guess I could say the same thing, it was six shots harder for me today.   But tee to green I wasn't that much different.   Again, the shot at 16 was kind of a shocker and then 17 I kind of over compensated, made sure I wasn't going to blade it again and chunked it in the fringe there and didn't get up‑and‑down.   So it's just a couple mistake, but overall I felt like I could have been 68 or 69 pretty easily.

Q.   And you had a chance there at 18. 
JAY HAAS:   Yeah, at 9 I hit a, I got a close putt, 14, 15 feet there putting straight up the hill and just pulled it a little bit.   But that's a pretty hard hole.   It was just good to hit a good drive there and have opportunity for birdie.   And I need to drive it better, need to drive it straighter and a little bit longer to give myself some opportunities.   Because the fairways are great, I love hitting off the zoysia.   I just need to do it more often.

Q.   I followed you for about seven or eight holes and I think I met probably 20 people who claim they knew you from junior high school or they lived across the street and they were your cousin or something.   Do you see all these people and how many of them are actually ‑‑
JAY HAAS:   There's quite a few that I've seen.   I haven't made face‑to‑face contact with them, but I look across the fairway I see them and I kind of remember them and there's certainly people that I stayed in touch with over the years that I see, I've seen out here for a couple days, but, yeah, there's a lot of people out here that I have run across in my 59 years.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT