U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 13, 2012
Jay Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   Ladies and gentlemen, Jay Haas, 68 today, 3 under par for the Championship.
JAY HAAS:   Hey, everybody.   For my next number.

Q.   Fred Funk was actually singing yesterday. 
JAY HAAS:   He was?   I won't try that, then.

Q.   Well done.   Two under par rounds for 36 holes.   That's a good thing in a Senior Open. 
JAY HAAS:   I'm pleased.   I didn't know what to expect coming in here because I'd never seen the golf course before.   Most of the time, the first time I see a course, it appears much harder than maybe it is.   But if you don't drive it good here, you can really be penalized, and I've done that well for two days. 
Most of my tee shots have found the fairway and on holes where you really need it to be in the fairway to the longer hole.   So that's been a real key for me.   I've made some nice putts.   Overall, just striking the ball well and been pretty consistent.   Okay.

Q.   Where you sit now at minus 3, with your experience in this thing, and you haven't won it yet‑‑ I'm sure you do want to win it?
JAY HAAS:   Sure.

Q.   What do you do now for the weekend? 
JAY HAAS:   Well, score‑wise, just try to attack when I can and try to keep doing what I'm doing.   Again, putting the ball in the fairway and giving myself opportunities.   Remains to be seen what Tom will do this afternoon, Tom Lehman.   There's a couple guys 5 under right now.   If they don't go much lower than that, then I'm still in decent shape. 
If Tom goes nuts this afternoon, though, and gets, you know, posts 10 under or something, then he's going to be hard to catch.   I'm doing what I need to do, knocking a few off each day.   I have a good attitude.   I have hit some poor shots, but they haven't seemed to bother me like some weeks they do. 
So I feel good.   I feel‑‑ this is my fourth week out of four in a row.   So I'm ready.   I'm not tired.   I feel like I'm anxious to get out there and play again tomorrow.

Q.   Did the winds start to get noticeable while you were out there? 
JAY HAAS:   Not really.   It wasn't doing much today.   The conditions are about as good as we could have them for two days wind‑wise.   Really, it's maybe a half a club here and there.   But overall, it's not blowing hard enough to really make a huge difference.   But it may. 
It feels like it's freshening here a little bit but not so bad.   It's a little protected on the perimeter of the golf course.   Certain holes are kind of out in the open that don't‑‑ you might get a little bit more wind, but it's not really that much of an issue.

Q.   I think that's good. 
JAY HAAS:   Okay.   Thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT