U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 12, 2012
Jay Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Here with Jay Haas.   Shot 1 under par today.   You're 1 under par, U.S. Senior Open.   Take me through your round a little bit and how the golf course was playing.   
JAY HAAS:   You know, I feel good with 1 under, not knowing the course that well.   Just had a couple of practice rounds.   I did a lot of good things, and I did some bad things and got away with them.   And then I kind of gave a few back coming in.   
So kind of mixed emotions, but certainly anything in the 60s in any kind of USGA event is not a bad score.   So I'm anxious to get out tomorrow and hopefully do more of the same.  
   
 Q.   You did make a few birdies out there today.   What set that up for you?   What was working for you?   
JAY HAAS:   You know, one, I hit two really good shots, a par 5 knocked in on 2 and two‑putted.   I guess my second birdie, 11 and 12, I hit a beautiful second shot at 11, good iron there.   And then 12, hit two really good shots.   Probably the hardest hole on the golf course, and we caught it kind of downwind there.   I hit a 7 iron.   I'd been hitting hybrid clubs into the green and hit a really good driver with a 7 iron and made a long putt.   So that was key.   
I caught a nice putt at 17 for my birdie after making a bogey at 14 and 16.   So I was disappointed with those.   To make a comeback and make a birdie and then make a nice par at 18, I feel a little bit better going into tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   For the most part, the greens are pretty small, minus 18 obviously.   Does that place a premium on your ball striking?   
JAY HAAS:   Yes.   You know, it's just hard to hit greens from the rough.   So you think, well, you have to hit your irons really good.   Well, you have to hit drives good so you have an opportunity to hit irons to the greens.   
Some are smaller than others, and you just can't miss on the short side.   And I did that a couple of times today and paid for it.   
Again, I'm learning the golf course and kind of learning where to miss it.   If I hit a bad one, hopefully I can get away with it sometimes.   But, again, just learning and trying to take the good and the bad tomorrow, and hopefully it will be a good one.  
   
 Q.   You said that you're still learning the golf course.   Does that change‑‑ does how you play the course today change the way you're going to go about it tomorrow?   
JAY HAAS:   Maybe a couple different shots off of tees.   Number 9, I don't think anybody knows how to play No.9, and I made a 5 there today.   I think I could have 50 rounds and wouldn't feel comfortable playing that hole.   Yeah, I hit a hybrid club off the tee, hit the tree, was lucky it didn't go out of bounds.   If I had to do it over again, I might have just hit a driver over the top of the trees and tough luck, see what happened.   
Other than that, the course is kind of straightforward.   You just pick and choose here and there.   Again, it's just ultimately you've got to put the ball in the fairway to have any kind of opportunity to attack the fly.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT