CHARLES SCHWAB CUP CHAMPIONSHIP
November 5, 2011
Jay Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JAY HAAS: Obviously good enough to play. I played well. But I didn't even think about what I was doing, the pressure, anything like that. I was just trying to put one foot in front of the other and hit another shot. 
 It doesn't seem to hurt when I swing. On my recoil sort of, the end of my swing, that's when it gets me. I kind of flinch a little bit on the follow-through. But I'm certainly not complaining. Hopefully I'm on the road to getting better. 

 Q. Yesterday after the round, did you think there was a chance you couldn't play?
 JAY HAAS: I guess I'm always one I'm going to gut it out or I'm going to try to play as much as I can. If I would have gotten worse, I don't think I could have played. 

 Q. Do you have a history of back problems?
 JAY HAAS: No. It just seems like every year at one time, it will do the same thing. It's the same spot. I can't figure out why, but it's a spasm. Almost takes my breath away when it grabs me. 
 Go back into the trailer and hopefully they can keep it going. Get some Celebrex. I took something I had in my bag that I had for pain for kidney stones five years ago. I don't even know what it was, I couldn't read what it was. I took half of it. Don't know whether that did any good or not. 
 Right now, it's funny, when I'm standing around it bothers me. With the adrenaline, I'm able to hit. If I stand a certain way and turn... 

 Q. Did it hurt yesterday?
 JAY HAAS: It was kind of bothering me on Thursday, but not so bad. Then yesterday it just kind of got progressively worse as the day went on. I made double at 12, but that was not the reason. I hit some bad shots there. But it was starting to get worse and worse. 
 But I hit a good shot at 11, made a birdie. 13, 14, 15 on in I never really hit a shot. 17 I hit a good shot, but I felt like I was kind of flinching on every one of them.

 Q. Yesterday?
 JAY HAAS: Yesterday. 
 Today it seems to have gotten a little bit better. I'm going to take another Celebrex tonight. Probably shouldn't, my stomach, take it on a full stomach.

 Q. Were you coming out today hoping to just make it through? 
 JAY HAAS: Yeah. I am surprised I played well. I was just trying. Like 1st hole, out to the right in the rough, chipped it up five feet, made it. 2nd hole, got it on the left edge of the green, about 50 feet, made it. I got off to a good start there. If I make bogey, bogey, might be a different story. But then I birdied No. 4. Kept hanging in there. Didn't try to do too much with it. Swung easy. 

 Q. What adjustment did you make?
 JAY HAAS: Just that. Just swung. Usually in between clubs I'd take one more club, try to take something off of it. Didn't have to take much off of it. But the ball doesn't seem to go here anyway, so it's probably a good thing. 
 
 Q. What about finishing up birdie, birdie? 
 JAY HAAS: It's funny. When I made it, somebody said, Good finish. I said, All right, it was two birdies in a row. I wasn't thinking in those terms. I was thinking of the shot on 18 yesterday. I hit a really good shot, had good yardage. Hit a really nice shot at 17 also. Hit two good shots. It's fun to take that away today. Hopefully feel better tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT