SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 26, 2011
Jay Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Talk about your round. 
 JAY HAAS: Shot 3-under through 14. And I bogeyed 14, the par-3, hit a pretty good shot into the bunker and didn't get up-and-down. 
 And then I made a triple bogey at 16. I drove it in the edge of the hazard by a tree, I thought I could get it back to the fairway and I didn't get it back to the fairway, ended up in the rough, hit it in the bunker and 2-putted and made 7. It's not funny.

 Q. I'm not laughing about that. 
 JAY HAAS: Yeah, well I'm not either. You know. I've been doing that a lot lately and I'm very disappointed.

 Q. Did the stopping hurt your momentum?
 JAY HAAS: No. No. Because I went out, I hit some good shots after that. I played 10 well and I missed a short putt at 11 and 12 hit two beautiful shots and just missed the putt. 
 13, I hit two beautiful shots and made a birdie. It's just, it played -- I played 15 well. So it's just kind of what I've been doing driving poorly and when I really need to hit a good drive, I haven't been doing it. And it just bit me again today.

 Q. Are the wet conditions out there, how hard were they? A lot of guys were saying it was tough. 
 JAY HAAS: Yes and no. If you drive it in the fairway it's not that big a deal. Greens are fabulous. When guys are shooting 6-under and 5-under, 4-under, you can't really say it's the conditions. 
 So if everybody shot over par then you would say, boy, it was really hard. But if you hit good shots, you can score and I was hitting good shots and was scoring. Just hit one bad drive and it really affected me. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 JAY HAAS: Yes and no. I need something in the 60s, I think if I shoot three more rounds in the 60s I might have a chance, but you just, it's hard to say, the weather is supposed to be better, but that means scores will probably be as good or better. So you can't expect one guy to shoot 6-under every round, but I need to go low tomorrow. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT