U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 29, 2010
Jay Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. (No microphone.)
 JAY HAAS: It's a typical U.S. Senior Open battle. You've got to put it in the fairway. The rough is not brutal but you almost can't get to a green because the trees are in your way. And I chipped out on 11 and got behind another tree and chipped out and went over on the green. You have to be precise, especially off the tee, it kind of sets things up, but the greens got firm this afternoon. Hopefully -- I don't want it to be cold and cloudy in the morning but the greens are softer when it's like that. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 JAY HAAS: Yeah, so it's just firm, you just have to be really on, and there is enough medium to short holes where you've got 7, 8, 9-wedges in there and you have to take advantage of those. 

 Q. Are those bouncing in?
 JAY HAAS: Oh, yeah, on 18 I was thinking of laying up but I didn't want to get it up there and end up behind a tree on my third. But even getting it up there you're not guaranteed to hit a pitching wedge or a sand wedge and get it around the hole. You expect a bounce. So I thought, well, I would rather chip to it and I hit a hell of a shot and got it on the green. 
 I hit a 9-iron on 13 -- 14, I thought it landed next to the hole and it ended up 5, 6-feet from the hole. From the fairway it looked like it bounced up and stopped dead but it bounced 15 feet forward. 

 Q. I guess you're trying to figure out the puzzle of playing something where the greens are this hard and you don't get to hit the shots that stop? 
 JAY HAAS: Right, I think "fun" might be a word, there are other words we might use, maybe, but I think it's challenging and we're not challenged like this but once or twice a year. It's just very different. 
 You have to throw out -- there are pins on 17, the pin's over to the hump on the left and I'm just trying to hit the middle of the green somewhere. And I hit the middle of the green and it went all the way over, but shooting at the pin was suicide. You hit it and miss it left and you can't get up and down. So it's just very, very challenging, I would use that word. "Fun" might be down on the list a little bit. 

 Q. Is it the setup as hard as you've seen in the U.S. Senior Open? 
 JAY HAAS: Maybe. Last year I was surprised with the scoring and I think the reason the scoring was good is because we had such generous driving areas and this year we don't have that but the greens last year never really got firm, never really got fast. Here they're both. 
 I can't remember, you know, in years past anything as tough as this, so this is probably the toughest U.S. Senior Open that I've played in. 

 Q. Jay, aren't you telling Roger to shrug off the jet lag hardship? 
 JAY HAAS: Yeah, I laughed today when I was reading "USA Today" and Peter said it's a hardship and we don't want it like that. Come on, this is not a hardship, our office is one of the prettiest places in the world and it's just golf, you know? Sure, we would like to have a break in there and have 'em spread out a little bit, but, you know, they say we're playing three straight tournaments -- Tom Watson, Tom Lehman, couple of guys playing three-straight four-round events, well we've done that all of our lives so hopefully we can play four rounds, hopefully we can make the cut and play four rounds so I'm not looking at it in those terms. Thanks, guys.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT