MISSISSIPPI GULF RESORT CLASSIC
May 1, 2010
Jay Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Jay, you had a stretch here where you had six birdies in like 11 holes. You were working really hard to come back from a slower start.   
 JAY HAAS: Yeah, not a great start at all. I hit a terrible drive at 1 and ended up making a slow ugly bogey on the first hole.  
 Then missed the green at 4 and hit a terrible chip -- or 5 -- and made bogey there. I was looking -- guys I was playing with were 2- and 3-under through three and four, five holes.   
 I was really in bad shape, but then I made a two-putt birdie at 6. Really nice iron at 8. I made about a six-footer for birdie there. Hit it close at 10.   
 Just kind of, you know, started hitting it a little better coming in and made a few putts.  
  
  Q. I was gonna say, your group, either you turned it around or you were gonna...  
 JAY HAAS: I was definitely left in the dust. David got off to a great start, and so did Tommy. Both of them were 6-, 7-under early. I was hanging on just to try to be in the red there.   
 But really a good back nine for me. Played the last few holes really well.  
  
  Q. Between 5 and 6, the bogey and the birdie, did you give yourself a talking to or anything?  
 JAY HAAS: No. I gave myself a talking to after my drive at 1. It was way earlier than 5 and 6. The first three and four holes are pretty difficult holes. The wind was into us.   
 Like I said, I hit a poor drive at 1 and got defensive. Best I could do was a long putt for par, or for birdie, and ended up 3-putting.   
 And then hit a poor drive at 5. Just hit a couple poor shots in tough conditions on tough holes and didn't get much out of it.  
  
  Q. But you're in at 6, and right there to have a good Sunday. What would you prefer, a very, very tough wind and a very tough golf course for Sunday for yourself?  
 JAY HAAS: You know, I guess I don't really think of it in those terms because I know I can't control it. If I wished it was windy and it wasn't then I'm gonna be negative. If I wished it was calm and it's windy, then I'm negative.   
 So I guess I just don't even think about it in those terms. I wish for better ball-striking. You know, what I did on the back nine, I hope that continues. Maybe be a little bit better out of gate tomorrow.  
  
  Q. It's a funny game. If I'm looking at this right, the driver was the one that made you scramble all day.   
 JAY HAAS: Yeah, I didn't drive the ball very well. There's not a lot rough out here, but I didn't hit them very long either. I mishit a lot of drives, and it just kind of put me on the defensive early on for sure.   
 So I was gonna go to the range and try to figure something out.   
  
  Q. Okay. Well, hit 'em down wind.   
 JAY HAAS: No, I can hit them downwind. They all seem to go straight and long downwind. But into the wind they don't go very far at all. I need to figure that out.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT