THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 10, 2015
Jay Haas
Nick Price
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CHRIS REIMER: Want to welcome everyone for our pairings draw process for the afternoon matches here at The Presidents Cup 2015.
At this time, like we have the last three previous times, I'll hand it over to Steve Carman, Vice President of Rules and Competition.
Before we get into the actual selections, Steve, would you mind just walking through how afternoon tee times will be determined.
STEVE CARMAN: Good afternoon.  The format this afternoon will be fourball.  And once the pairings are established by the captains, we will determine tee times, because we have to make sure that players are currently playing in the morning session have a 30-minute rest period between when they finish their match and when their tee time is going to be for the fourth match.
So it's a matter of wait-and-see before we can establish match starting times.  With the hour delay this morning, it makes things a little more complicated.
The U.S. Team will have the first selection in the fourth round.  Captain Haas?
JAY HAAS: Match No. 15, the U.S. will play J.B. Holmes and Bubba Watson.
STEVE CARMAN: U.S. selections, Mr. Holmes and Mr. Watson.
International Team selection?
NICK PRICE: Louis Oosthuizen and Branden Grace.
STEVE CARMAN: International selection is Mr. Oosthuizen and Mr. Grace.
First selection in Match 16 will be the International Team.
NICK PRICE: For Match 16, we choose Adam Scott and Anirban Lahiri.
STEVE CARMAN: International selections Mr. Scott and Mr. Lahiri.
U.S. Team selection?
JAY HAAS: Match 16, the United States Team will play Phil Mickelson and Zach Johnson.
STEVE CARMAN: U.S. Team selections, Mr. Mickelson and Mr. Zach Johnson.
First selection in Match 17 will be the United States.
JAY HAAS: Match No. 17, the United States will play Jimmy Walker and Chris Kirk.
STEVE CARMAN: U.S. selections, Mr. Walker and Mr. Kirk.
International Team selection?
NICK PRICE: For Match 17, we select Sangmoon Bae and Hideki Matsuyama.
STEVE CARMAN: International Team selections, Mr. Bae and Mr. Matsuyama.
International Team selects first in Match 18.
NICK PRICE: For Match 18, we select Jason Day and Charl Schwartzel.
STEVE CARMAN: International selections, Mr. Day and Mr. Schwartzel.
U.S. Team selects for the side in the 18th match.
JAY HAAS: U.S. Team, Match No. 18 posts Patrick Reed and Jordan Spieth.
STEVE CARMAN: U.S. selection, Patrick Reed and Jordan Spieth.
Be back to you shortly with the starting times.  Currently J.B. Holmes, Bubba Watson and Mr. Oosthuizen are playing, so we'll have to wait until they finish their match and have a 30-minute rest period.
Thank you, gentlemen.
CHRIS REIMER: I think if we could, we'll just restrict questions to just about this pairings process since we don't know the completion of the rounds so far.
We'll start by opening for questions in this regard and skip the opening statements.
Q. Jay, could you just talk about splitting up Jordan to go with Reed instead of keeping him with Dustin?
JAY HAAS: Yeah, I think Patrick has wanted this from since last fall.  They had some success in The Ryder Cup.  And I think Jordan can bring out the best in Patrick.  We were trying to make it happen earlier in the week but didn't.
Dustin and Jordan won their first match, and I think we were thinking of maybe putting Patrick with Jordan the second day, but they seemed to like that pairing, so we kept on with it.
Now that they seem to be struggling a little bit, we just are going to break them up and put these two together and see if they can recreate that magic from last fall.
Q. Last time around, you talked about how difficult this part of the process was, because of everything that was going on.  Because of the change in points and you have a little bit more flexibility, is it easier this time around going into this final match?
NICK PRICE: Sitting four guys is never easy.  It's a tough decision.
But we felt like we're putting the guys who are playing the best out there, our eight best out there.  Obviously Anirban had not played since Thursday, so we have to play him this afternoon, and I think he's going to be more comfortable in better-ball than he was in alternate-shot.  And I put him with Adam, because I think Adam's going to be a wonderful influence for him.
So there's a couple of automatics that we did there:  Louis and Branden who played so well this week; and then Jason and Charl; and Hideki and Moon, I think those two are very comfortable playing with each other.
Q. You just mentioned a bit about Anirban.  Do you think he's a bit inexperienced when he's come to this format, alternate ball?  That's probably what went against him the first day, and some more impressions on him, please.
NICK PRICE: In hindsight, he and Thongchai played so well together in the practice round in Tuesday and then again on Wednesday, I thought they would be a really good fit.  And I think they were both a little nervous and a little apprehensive.
And in hindsight, I may have changed Anirban and played him in better-ball for yesterday, as I think he would probably be a little more calmer if I put him with someone more experienced.  That's not to say that Thongchai is not experienced.
This week is a huge learning experience for us, it really is.  There's five guys on the team who I really, as much as I try and follow the game and their games, I really didn't know an awful lot about their games until this week.
CHRIS REIMER: Gentlemen, I know you're eager to get back out to the matches.  Thank you for your time.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT