TOSHIBA CLASSIC
March 7, 2008
Jay Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DAVE SENKO:  Jay, another good round here at Newport Beach Country Club:  6-under, 65.  Just talk about your day.  Looks like seven birdies and one bogey.   
 JAY HAAS:  It was good.  A lot of what I did last year.  I drove the ball well today.  Did a lot of good iron shots.  Took advantage of my opportunities out there.  Left a few out there, but I made a couple nice putts.   
 I just enjoy playing this golf course.  Most of the holes really appeal to my eye.  When I step up to the tee to make a shot I can see my tee shot taking off.  I did, I hit a lot of fairways today.  Gave myself opportunities.   
 The course is really playing fast.  The ball is rolling a long way.  But, you know, this course, the protection of it is pinning, where they cut the holes.  There are a few over bunkers and tough to get to and things like that.  But, you, it's hard to be disappointed with a 65.   
 DAVE SENKO:  Birdies, start at No. 2.   
 JAY HAAS:  For 2, I made about a twenty-foot putt there.  Hit a sand wedge.   
 3, I went to the green and came up just short and chipped to about two feet; made that.   
 5, I hit a 7-iron to about four feet.   
 12, hit a sand wedge to about 16, 17 feet.  Is that what it said on ShotLink?   
 DAVE SENKO:  Yeah.   
 JAY HAAS:  Made that.  The next hole, 13 feet, 6-iron.  I two-putted 13.  I hit a 4-iron to about 35 feet I guess, 40 feet.   
 And then 16, hit an 8-iron there.  17, I missed the green.  Kinda really my only poor shot of the day.  I pulled a 7-iron left of the green and then hit an even worse chip shot about 20 feet short and 2-putted.   
 Disappointed with the par at 18.  Hit it over the green back right and had a really difficult little pitch and terrible lie and missed it by about ten feet.   
 But it was good.  I had a lot of chances.  17 was my only real scare at a bogey, and I made bogey.  But it was a good start.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 JAY HAAS:  I think so.  I think a lot of it was.  The second hole I made it from twenty and Scott made it from twenty and Bernhard made about an 8-footer.  We all birdied the next hole.   
 I guess 12 we all birdied.  I birdied 13; Scott eagled 15, and both Bernhard and I birdied it.  We weren't trying to one-up each another, but we certainly believe were being pulled along by each other.   
 Then we came to 17 and I was a bad leader there.  I missed the green left, and Scott hit it in the water and Bernhard hit it in the bunker.  He was the only one that made a par on that hole.  It was pretty ugly there.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 JAY HAAS:  You want to hit a nice shot in there.  I hit Bernhard's ball on No. 7.  He was two feet from the hole and my ball hopped into his ball and kicked off the green.  I might have been three or four feet there, but who knows.   
 I hit some nice shots.  I was very pleased with the way I struck the ball today.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 JAY HAAS:  Not really, because I really played well both weeks.  I finished third at MasterCard and sixth at Boca.  In the second round at Boca there I just, I don't know, had 34 putts or something like that and shot 1-under par.  Just really been hitting the ball well.   
 Actually almost feel energetic and really pumped up.  I feel like I haven't even played hardly this year.  I played two weeks out of our four, and so I'm anxious.  I feel like this is almost the start of the year.   
 No, I'm not in a panic mode.  I would certainly have loved to have had a victory, but I'm playing well and keep giving myself opportunities.  Had a real good chance at both of those places really.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 JAY HAAS:  You know, I guess I don't say I have expectations.  I have goals.  My goals were to win the Money List and win the Schwab title.  Things like the Player of the Year and things like that, that's not an issue.  I think winning the Money List, for me, is probably as important as anything.   
 The Schwab Cup is obviously very, very important to all of us out here.  Those are two of my goals again this year.  I played very poorly - not poorly - but I didn't contend in the major tournaments last year, and that's one of my major goals this year, is to do a better job in our majors.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 JAY HAAS:  Oh, boy that's a hard thing to say.  To me it lends itself to everyone here.  It's not a back-breakingly long golf course.  Everybody can hit medium to short irons into most of the holes.  There are Par 5s that are reachable.   
 Again I think the greens are the equalizer.  They're very tricky to putt and tricky to get the ball underneath the hole.  You hit a good shot and have a 6-footer downhill you can't hardly stop and you need to be defensive on.   
 I don't know.  It's just certain courses appeal to certain types of players, but I couldn't tell you why.  It's not like this guy plays hard court tennis better and -- you just need to sit down.   
 You know, I don't know that it's like that where a grass court and clay court, those type of specialists.  I wouldn't say that has anything to do with it.  I think it's just certain guys -- I'm about out of here.  Anyway I don't have a good answer for that.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 JAY HAAS:  Same old Bernhard to me.  He drives the ball beautiful, long, beautiful iron play.  He's always been a very strong iron player.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 JAY HAAS:  No.  Not at all.  I mean, it was a 65.  There was really no sweat for him either today.  It was pretty easy.  He's a beautiful player.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 JAY HAAS:  I do.  Yeah, I think that, you know, I was out there a pretty -- it was a pretty early group and I was 1-under through 2 and wasn't on the leaderboard.   
 There was about six guys already two or three under.  You just expect that.  I think you just have to -- I'm trying to make a birdie on every hole.  I'm shooting for the flags.  I guess I'm thinking that -- it's the type of course, again, there's very few long shots, the Par 3s, No. 8, we're hitting 4-, 5-iron into that hole.   
 Trying to think where else we're hitting anything more than say a 7- or an 8-iron into a green.  You can be aggressive, and I think that's the mindset I have and a lot of guys do, I think.  You just got to go for it and hopefully putt well.   
 It boils down to who makes the putts.  I think everybody is going to have some chances, but it's going to be, you know, it look likes -- everybody was shaking their head about 19 under last year, and I think that's probably what it's going to take again to do it.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT