SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2007
Jay Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  (Inaudible.)   
 JAY HAAS:  We played a different set of tees than we played yesterday afternoon.  There will probably be a few good scores today, but it is very tough out there.  You have to drive the ball in the fairway, hit it on the green.  Putting is still very difficult.  I'm pleased with 1-under.  I could have been four or 5-over the way I started off.   
 But I settled down and hit a bunch of greens.   
 And then 3-putted 17.   
 And made a nice up-and-down at 18.  So I'm pretty happy going to lunch here at 1-under.   
  
  Q.  Talk about that 17th hole.  How instrumental is it in playing well here?   
 JAY HAAS:  It kind of depends on where you put the tee.  If they go back a tee, which they probably will, if it doesn't blow 30 like it did or 25 or what it was yesterday, but it seemed like a hundred out there in the wind.  But it's a four or 5-iron shot yesterday with the wind.  5-iron today.  So it's playable, but it's not Sunday afternoon either.  You're not trying to protect a lead or trying to catch somebody.  So anything could happen there.  There's almost no bail out.   
 The bunkers are firm, it's hard to hit a good bunker shot out of there.  You almost, if you're in the bunker, you almost have to play for bogey.  It's going to be very difficult to get up-and-down from there.  But if you hit it in the water it's going to be A 5 for sure.   
  
  Q.  Does 1-under keep you in the hunt for the weekend?   
 JAY HAAS:  I think so.  If somebody doesn't go crazy here.  The other guys, Joe, you know, those guys could probably do it again like they did yesterday.  But I'm certainly not out of it.  I feel like anything in the red, even 1-, 2-over, you know, it's hard to catch up in this, but the leaders can certainly fall back.  When you shoot a 69 or 68 this in something like this you're going to make a huge move.  So yeah, I think I'm still in it.  Pretty pleased with the day.   
  
  Q.  As defending champion are you pretty pleased with how you played these first two rounds or did it rattle your nerves?   
 JAY HAAS:  Yeah, certainly I would like to be playing the best golf of my life right now, but I got off to a shaky start today.  I'm really pleased with the way I came back from that.  Especially after four holes, if I was four or 5-over that was probably what I deserved, but I just kind of got it around and made two nice up-and-downs, and was real tentative.  And then I kind of just made a couple adjustments and got a little more adjusted maybe and then when we turned downwind too and that's really a much nicer, the mishits don't go so badly downwind.  So I was able to settle in there a little bit and make some nice pars, made a couple birdies and then by the time we turned back into the wind I felt a little more comfortable.   
  
  Q.  How do you feel about seeing Ben's name up there?   
 JAY HAAS:  I think it's great.  I saw that he was 3-under yesterday and I was looking in the scoring last night in the locker room and surprise that had he had gone to 1-over.  But he's been playing a lot of good rounds lately.  He's been playing real well lately.  This year it seems like he's playing a bunch of good rounds and to me it's just a matter of time for him.  He's not that much older, but he was somebody that I looked up to when I was playing high school golf, he was just a freshman a sophomore in college and we never did play, I was an -- I guess we did, he was a freshman -- I was a freshman, he was a junior, that was his last year in school, but we really didn't play all that much.  He was kind of -- but everybody loves him and I'm sure all the guys would be happy to see him win.  It would be right up there.  That would be great.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT