CHARLES SCHWAB CUP CHAMPIONSHIP
October 27, 2006
Jay Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Well, Jay, thanks for joining us.  66 today, you're 8 under into tomorrow, and you're    just a note, you had a 30 on the back nine today, which ties the nine hole record for this tournament.  So with that, if you would just talk about your day.
JAY HAAS:  Well, another beautiful day; the course is magnificent.  But early on I was struggling a bit.  I didn't drive the ball in the fairway.  Drove it behind a tree at No. 3.  Had to chip out.  Made a nice bogey there.  5, I drove in the right rough; ended up making a one putt par.

4, I missed a green in the right; chipped up fifteen feet and missed it.  I was just struggling early.

But after No. 6, I missed the fairway left at 6; managed to get it on the green and made par there.  After that I played pretty well.  I don't know if I missed a fairway after that.  I maybe missed a green or two.  Things just seemed to go better and gave myself a lot of opportunities on the back.

But I wasn't as sharp.  Yesterday, actually, I played better.  Drove the ball beautifully yesterday.  Made a few putts; made an eagle at 16.  But it's    the scores, you know, you can get them    you can make birdies out there.  I had one putt, and it looked like    I've never seen a surface any better than this one was.  It was like 25 feet with no marks on it.  I didn't make it, but it was just a    I'm telling you, I've never seen greens as good as these.  It's just fantastic.  But very quick.
THE MODERATOR:  Birdies.  Start at No. 2.
JAY HAAS:  2, I hit a green side bunker and hit that out to about a foot and a half.  Bogeyed 3; drove behind the bunker, chipped out over the green.  Pitched it back to about ten feet.  Made it.

4, I missed the green to the right; pitched by about fifteen feet; missed it.

8, could reach the green there and hit a poor second shot behind the bunker.  Hit that up probably about 18 feet and made that putt.

10, I hit a nice shot in there; an 8 iron to about 8 feet.

11, lob wedge to a foot.

13, I 2 putted from about 12 feet after hitting a 5 wood in.

On 16, I hit a 5 wood to about 18 feet.  What did SkyLink say?
THE MODERATOR:  17, it said you were 235.
JAY HAAS:  Right.  That's correct.  And 9 iron to about 7 feet on 17 and made that one.

Probably my best shot of the day was 18.  Drove it in the lip of the bunker on the right.  It rolled down and had a funny lie.  Hit a 9 iron 30 feet from the hole, but it was a good shot.  Could have chunked into the creek there.  I was trying to figure out    I had one putt for bogey    I was already computing what would happen if I chunked it.  But I hit a good one there, so that was a nice way to end.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
JAY HAAS:  Yeah.  On Wednesday, when you say, What did you have there?  Let's see, that's a bad sign when they have to look back.  And I have to do that every now and then.
THE MODERATOR:  Questions?
Q.  You had a 30 on the back nine and Loren had a 31.  Is that where the scoring opportunities are?
JAY HAAS:  I think so.  To me, the front nine has some awfully good holes.  The first hole, not so bad; 2, if you drive it good you can attack.  But if you don't hit the fairways, I think the front nine is much more difficult than the back.

4, long Par 3, very narrow green.

5, long Par 4.  Again, not hitting the fairway, tough green.

6, kind of a crown fairway.

7, a long Par 3.  So it's just a steady dive of some tough holes in there.  You can get them if you hit some good shots.  But, yeah, I think the back nine is playing a shot or two easier.
THE MODERATOR:  Questions?
Q.  Can you talk a little bit about the competition with Loren?
JAY HAAS:  Somebody asked me if I'm paying attention to what Loren is doing.  I mean, I pay attention to what everybody's doing.  I look at the leaderboard.  I hear people say, I didn't look at the leaderboard the whole back nine until I got to 18.

Or    I don't agree with that theory, because there's not many sports that you don't look at the scoreboard and it dictates how you're going to play or what call you're going to call in football or what play you're going to run in basketball.  So I don't agree with that.  I want to see what's happening now.

I guess, to me, both of us are going win this week.  You know, this is a win win week for everybody in this field.  But one of us will win the Cup, and that's great.  I'll be happy for Loren if he does, and thrilled if I do.  But it still is, you know, a fantastic year for both of us.

Again, this is a mind game I'm playing with myself.  I'm downplaying it a little bit.  I want to do it and I'm sure he does too.

But what he's shooting    because he was shooting well on the back nine doesn't mean, okay, I've got to kick it in gear.  If that was the a case and I could turn it on and off it would have been a lot better than it has been.  So    but, yeah, I'm watching.  I just chuckle when I see him on the leaderboard.  He's down there somewhere, and all of a sudden he's made 3 birdies in a row.  Dave on the couch just said that Loren did the same.  I made an eagle and a birdie and jump up there right with him.  So it's just fun; in that position it can only be fun.
Q.  With the greens as pristine as they are, does it just really give you a good feeling that you can make a lot of putts?
JAY HAAS:  Yesterday I thought I rolled the ball pretty well.  Didn't go in the hole yesterday.  But, yes, to me they're very nice.  They're    I don't think they're easy to putt because they're so fast.  You have to pay attention to speed speed and be careful.

But, looking at Loren yesterday, he looked like he was just, you know, looking at a hot fudge Sunday or something when he gets on the green.  Every putt he hits looks like it might go in.  He just has beautiful speed.  When he makes a putt, it's no surprise.

So when I play with him I guess I'm expecting him to hole it every time.  And he didn't even putt very well yesterday.  I mean, he didn't make a lot yesterday, but, yeah, they look gook.  You're not going get a bump.  If you got 4 or 5 feet, if you could hit it straight for a foot it's going in, because it will not bounce off line.  If you can hit it straight for a foot.
THE MODERATOR:  Okay.  One more.
Q.  Three part question.  Your were born in St. Louis.  No. 1, are you a Carninals fan?  No. 2, are you a huge Cardinals fan?  And No. 3, if you are a huge Carninals fan, what do you plan to do tonight?
JAY HAAS:  Yes, I would say I'm a huge Carninals fan.  I grew up when I was 8, 10, 12 years old, that was the early '60s.  They went to the World Series in '64, '67, '68, so kind of those years were very good and that hooked me.  There was no baseball on TV other than the World Series.  You listen on the radio.  Jack Buck and Harry Carey Harry were the team in St. Louis.  I listened to the Double Header all that stuff.

So yeah, I'm a huge fan, and I will probably    I might do room service tonight, actually.  Last night we had this President's dinner and it was very nice.  It was funny, there's several Carninals and Detroit fans in the group here, and we were getting text messages updating the game.  I did see the last couple innings, but I will see every pitch tonight.
THE MODERATOR:  Okay.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT