U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 7, 2006
Jay Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
You're still there and still two rounds to play?
JAY HAAS:  Yeah, I'm just very disappointed in my putting.  I just lost my confidence on the greens after the first couple holes.  And I tried every different thing I knew to try and just never, nothing clicked.

I made a nice putt at 10 and saved a nice putt at number 13 about a 12 footer for par and the rest of my putts, none of them deserved to go in, I just putted so badly.  I hit bad putts, bad reads, just none of them were even close.  So that's what's frustrating, I think.  So I'm still in it, yeah, but the way I'm putting, I need to figure something out quickly or else I'm going to be way back.
Q.  First four holes, two of them anyway kind of really set the tone then, didn't it, on the back nine?  You had a couple of those holes that
JAY HAAS:  Well, you know, I don't know that they set the tone, I just hit a beautiful shot into No. 11 after birdieing 10, and it bounced over the green and ended up making bogey there.  But then made a nice save at 13.  I was right in the middle of the fairway at 14 and ended up four putting from, didn't have a very makeable first putt, but certainly didn't expect four putts there.  And that, then I got, before that though I was tentative on the greens.  I just didn't feel my stroke at all.

So actually my second putt there was the best putt I hit out of the four of them.  I hit a pretty solid putt there, and misread it, and then from then on I just didn't come close on putts.  So I need to figure something out quickly.
Q.  Did it make a difference playing in the afternoon today as opposed to yesterday morning?
JAY HAAS:  You know, I don't know.  Tee to green I was pretty good.  I hit a couple sketchy irons there coming in the last few holes, but maybe the greens were tougher or something, but I just never got comfortable and I don't think it was the greens, it was just my stroke and I just lost confidence and that's    I felt like the way I played, I should have been par, 1 over, 1 under at the worst.  Just pretty discouraged right now.  I need to figure something out.
Q.  Is it going to be tough to catch Tom on a course like this?
JAY HAAS:  Yeah, if he plays like he did today, yeah.  Anybody that plays well, it's tough to catch them if they continue to do that.  It's a tough thing to predict, you just never know what can happen.  Today Peter made some putts and shot 66 and it looked easy.  Yesterday he struggled on the greens, didn't make any putts.  But you know, it's just another day.  Hopefully tomorrow will be better.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT