U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2006
Jay Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Jay, talk about making the cut here at the U.S. Open, how special it is for you back at Winged Foot.
 JAY HAAS:  You know, I thought about it a little bit, but I guess mostly I've just thought about trying to make another cut and trying to get to the weekend, trying to have a chance to win, play well here.  I think the biggest thing for me here was getting here, being here four times in '74, '84, '97, now this year, and making the cut all four times.  I think that maybe is one of my proudest moments thinking about Winged Foot itself and what this course means to me, with the Harmon family, my connection there and everything.  I think that's probably as special as passing Tom, briefly though it might be.
Q.  When you get to 591, does that mean you've been out here too long or that you're a really good player?
 JAY HAAS:  Much more so that I've been out here a long time, and I've been good in spots and consistent.  I've been healthy.  I think that's a big part of it.  My health has kept me in there for a long time.  But I guess I just hate missing cuts.  I hate going to a tournament and not being able to play on the weekend, not that that    I think everybody does, too, but somehow I've just been able to hang in there, and here was especially like that.  I got 5 over after six holes yesterday and ended up more over after that, so I'm pretty happy with that.  I played awfully well today, drove the ball really well, what you have to do.  My irons aren't real sharp but drove the ball well and made some good saves.
Q.  What's a realistic number for you over the weekend here?
 JAY HAAS:  I guess I'm not    I'm intimidated a little bit by the course obviously, but I think if I drive the ball well, you can    I'm not saying you can shoot low, but I don't think it's impossible.  The greens aren't unbelievably fast or firm, but they haven't used some really tough pin placements, too.  I guess I'm not thinking so much about a number, I'm trying to go lower than I am right now.  I'm 7.  Something lower than that would be nice.
Q.  Tiger is obviously struggling out there and he's taken a long layoff.  In your career when you've taken a layoff is it a struggle to come back after a layoff?
 JAY HAAS:  Not necessarily.  I think most of the time when I've had a layoff it's been in the off season, October, November, December, and you come out and play Indian Wells and Bermuda Dunes, places like that.  I don't show up at Winged Foot after two months off.  It just worked out in the schedule for Tiger to do that.  I'm all for him.  I guess I'm not surprised he's struggling, but then again, he's still the best player in the world.  You just cannot be so so out here; he's just probably not real sharp.  Yeah, I'm a little surprised that he's struggling like he is.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT