ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 14, 2019
Brendan Lawlor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. First of all, how does it feel to have won a tournament?  It's the very first one ever, The Scottish Open, you are the EDGA Champ.  How does it feel?
BRENDAN LAWLOR: It feels surreal to be honest.  To be out here this week competing with all the pros and having the chance to play off the same tees, it's a privilege for all of us to get out here and play in such a fantastic event.  It's an amazing achievement for EDGA, and for the Europeans to accept that disability golfers are talented is fantastic, as well, so it's good inclusion with everything in the world now and fantastic that people are accepting it.
Q. It's lovely to showcase it and one thing that you showcased today is world-class golf.  You shot level par off the tips on the venue for The Scottish Open.  You will be beating professionals that are playing in The Scottish Open come later today.  How does that feel to shoot that score and how did you put it together?
BRENDAN LAWLOR: It feels great.  I was playing well coming into the tournament.  I was hitting the ball really good, striking my irons well and especially my putting.  My putting would be my strongest part.
But my game shaped up well yesterday.  It didn't come together too well, but today, everything clicked.  I smoothed it off the tee.  I didn't miss many fairways.  Putts dropped when they needed to drop.  I was 3-under after 8 and 2-under after 9, and I knew I had to get out to a good start today because George and Michael were three shots ahead, to I had to putt a wee bit of pressure on.
Again, I really enjoyed today.  I made a few bogeys coming in, but put that down to a wee bit of nerves and continue on in my career, so I'm really happy.
Q. Of course, George did push all the way and you had that little putt on 18.  How were you feeling stood over that?
BRENDAN LAWLOR: Won't talk about that one.  Felt like about 20 feet to be honest.
George is a great competitor.  We've played a few times together on the EDGA Tour and he's a fantastic talent.  He hits it miles and he's an unbelievable player.  Everyone out here today are unbelievable players.  It's great to showcase such an amazing game, isn't it, that other people can do.
Q. It certainly is.  You've been mixing with the pros and practicing and playing on the same golf course and they have been hanging out with you, and, in fact, Paul Dunne was out to see you.  What does it mean to be mixing with these guys, and how cool is it now to have them see you win?
BRENDAN LAWLOR: I think on their half, they are really and truly class, because they don't have to support disability golf.  They have a lot more things to focus on, like playing tournaments.
But for so many professional golfers to accept what we are doing and accept that we can play with them, and aren't complaining about it -- because some people might, some people mightn't.  But for them to accept us, it's fantastic and I think they can see our talent, as well, so that's helping, too.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT