MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
March 30, 2021
Hubert Hurkacz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  H. HURKACZ/M. Raonic
 4-6, 6-3, 7-6
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. It seems like this week you're taking care of all the North American opponents between Denis Kudla and both Denis and Milos.  Coincidence or just the way it's worked out?
 HUBERT HURKACZ:   Yeah, I mean, just the way it worked out this week so far.  I mean, obviously very happy with my last days' performances.
 Q. One thing that the commentators on Tennis Channel were pointing out was the fact that coupled with your title win at Delray Beach earlier this year that you're undefeated in the State of Florida between Delray Beach and now playing Miami.  You live and train part-time in Florida.  Is that a big advantage for you?
 HUBERT HURKACZ:   I mean, last year I spent here like over five months.  So I got used to the weather and the conditions here, so I think that's kind of advantage for me.
 But each site is different.  Each conditions, the balls are different, but I enjoy being here and playing here.
 Q. What are your feelings of being again in quarterfinals of a Masters 1000 event?
 HUBERT HURKACZ:   It's great.  I haven't been there for a long period of time, so obviously pumped to play another match here in Miami.  Just trying my best.
 Q. Do you think your serve was a highlight of your game today against Milos?
 HUBERT HURKACZ:   Yeah, I think I served very well.  That helped me to stay in the game and then be competitive against Milos.  Because if you give him a little bit, couple of free points or he's getting into more rallies, he's very dangerous player.
 Q. Milos obviously has a huge serve and really heavy shots.  How do you feel that you handled those today from the baseline?  Looked like you were really comfortable out there handling his pace and kind of using your shots to hurt him.  What were you happy with in your game today?
 HUBERT HURKACZ:   I think I'm pretty happy with my serve today.  That helped me a lot.  I felt like I was returning pretty good.
 But like in the middle of third set I just, like, he was just serving bombs and I was just trying to hold my serve to be in there and obviously tried to like be able to play toe to toe with him the rallies.
 Q. Where is your confidence right now match to match?  You just beat Shapovalov, another Canadian, I'm Canadian, so I forgive you, it's all good, and now Milos.  You seem to be very confident.  How good do you feel with your level right now going match to match and your confidence going forward in the tournament?
 HUBERT HURKACZ:   I think I'm gaining a lot of confidence from those victories and just try to keep it up.
 Q. In the tiebreak you jumped ahead early and never relinquished your lead in the tiebreak.  How important was it to jump out early so that you were playing the entire breaker from the point of being ahead?
 HUBERT HURKACZ:   Yeah, that's obviously great if you're able to be ahead in the tiebreaker, especially in the beginning.  And if you continue to increase the lead it puts a lot of pressure on your opponent.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT