BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 13, 2019
Hubert Hurkacz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








H. HURKACZ/D. Shapovalov
7-6, 2-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. The wins keep coming.  Prize money comes in.  Are you ready to buy that fancy car yet?
HUBERT HURKACZ: I think not yet.  But, yeah, today was, I think, really a good match for me.  Denis is a great player.  It was a tough fight today.
Q. What was really working for you today?  What made the difference in the match?
HUBERT HURKACZ: Yeah, I think I was staying positive.  I was fighting for every ball.
I think in the first set I started to play a little bit more aggressive, so I think that was crucial.
Q. How hard is it to believe you can beat somebody who is as good as Denis, who has done as well as he has?
HUBERT HURKACZ: Yeah, I mean, it's not easy, but I think, yeah, those couple of wins earlier gave me that confidence that I am able to beat pretty great players.
Q. Do you have any ideas why you achieved great performances here this week?  Is there an explanation or a few explanations?
HUBERT HURKACZ: Yeah, I think just a process, because I'm trying to learn as much as I can.
Yeah, sometimes you're lucky.  You have a couple of good matches.  Then you're taking your chances, because, yeah, I think that's the way in tennis, you have to keep being positive in every tournament.  And then the results will come.
Q. Do you enjoy the big occasion?  Do you like playing on big stadiums?  Do you get nervous?
HUBERT HURKACZ: Yeah, of course I enjoy playing on big stadium.  Was my dream since I was a child.  That's the greatest thing that can happen to a tennis player, playing on the big stadiums, big events against big players.
I mean, yeah...
Q. Why did you start tennis?  How did it happen for you to play tennis?
HUBERT HURKACZ: Yeah, my mother used to play tennis.  Yeah, that's how it started.  I mean, I started to get some lessons from my coach, and, yeah, it begin early when I was, like, around five.
Q. Do you have a special relationship to Roger?  Did you watch his big successes?
HUBERT HURKACZ: Yeah, I mean, of course I watch his great matches.  He's unbelievable player.  He had amazing results.  I mean, winning that many Grand Slams, tournaments, yeah, for sure, he's special.  It's gonna be fun to play against him.
Q. Did you ever practice with him?
HUBERT HURKACZ: Yeah, I hit with him once in Shanghai last year.
Q. Shanghai?
HUBERT HURKACZ: Yeah.
Q. Milos was just here and was talking about how he had Vasek, Pospisil, and now Denis has Felix.  Being by yourself in Poland, does it make it more difficult?
HUBERT HURKACZ: No.  Kubot is here.  He had a great singles career and now he won Wimbledon in doubles, Australian Open.  I mean, he's playing here also quarterfinal today.  So not alone.  Especially like Radwanska just finished her career last year.  I mean, she had great career, for so many years top 10.  Yeah.
Q. I saw your family on the court.  Does the family presence relax you?  After winning Dubai, you went home to see your sister and your family.  Is it helping you?
HUBERT HURKACZ: Yeah, it's really great to have them around.  That's very special that they can be here with me.  That really means a lot.  I think it relaxes me, so I'm happy that they are here.
Q. When you practiced with Roger in Shanghai, did he have any advice for you?
HUBERT HURKACZ: No (smiling).
Q. Can you talk more about that practice session?
HUBERT HURKACZ: It was just practice session.  I mean, hitting with him is something different.  It was a lot of fun for me.  Yeah, playing a match is even more fun.
Q. Is that something you dreamed about growing up, like, playing?
HUBERT HURKACZ: Yeah, for sure.  Especially here in the quarterfinal is something special for me.
Q. Were you nervous before this practice session with Roger in Shanghai?
HUBERT HURKACZ: I think not that much (smiling).
Q. Who were the players you admired growing up?
HUBERT HURKACZ: I think Roger.
Q. Just Roger?
HUBERT HURKACZ: Yeah, I mean, many players, top players.  I mean, Roger, Pete earlier.  Yeah, Novak, Rafa, and there are others.
Q. Are there any of Roger's matches that particularly stand out in your memory?
HUBERT HURKACZ: No, I don't think so.  Just like in general.  Yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT