ATP CUP
January 4, 2020
Marcin Matkowski
Kamil Majchrzak
Lukasz Kubot
Hubert Hurkacz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GONZALEZ-MOLTENI/Hurkacz-Kubot   
6-2, 6-4   
Team Argentina - 2   
Team Poland - 1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Marcin, obviously a long battle, close matches. Obviously you're disappointed, but was it nice to battle with the team and everybody together?  
MARCIN MATKOWSKI: Well, yeah. That was something great match for all the fans, for us. Obviously we are disappointed that we didn't come up with a win, but, you know, at the end we have to give credit to Argentina. They played great doubles, and they deserve to win.   
Lukasz and Hubie in doubles, they played okay, but the other team from beginning -- I mean, after the first two games, they started playing very good, and they came out on top.   
It was a great experience. We loved every minute of it. Obviously the guys played, all three of them, good matches. But, you know, in two days we have another chance and hopefully we can come up on the top.   
 Q.  Hubie, like your captain said, are you able to put it in perspective a little bit? Obviously you won one match, lost another, but you enjoyed the experience in that you still have more to go?  
HUBERT HURKACZ: Yeah, obviously, I mean, it's tough that we didn't win today. Kamil played really good match. He had some chances.   
But, I mean, we are playing against really good guys, good opponents. I was able to win against Diego. I mean, he's a really great player.   
In the doubles, they played really well. I mean, it was a pleasure to play with Lukasz. I mean, I could have helped him a little more than that, but they were playing really good.   
Yeah, we enjoyed the experience here. The Polish fans that came out here and supported us throughout the whole tie, that was so nice for us, and that gives us extra motivation.   
And also, the atmosphere was great. We love it, but we hope next time we're gonna win.   
 Q.  I know you're probably not thinking about this now, but you got to use the video review a couple of times. One time in your singles it helped you. What did you think of that whole innovation?  
HUBERT HURKACZ: Yeah, I think that's a really good idea, especially those are the right calls or the things that can get a little bit messy during the match, because sometimes you feel you hit a winner and, I mean, the guy touch the ball. Yeah, I mean, I think it's helpful, helpful to improve the game.   
 Q.  Lukasz, I know you're disappointed. Was it just a case of too good from their side?  
LUKASZ KUBOT: Well, it's doubles. You know, like Marcin said, beginning we had chance second game, and after all maybe we could have done better that game, the match would be, the start of the game would be totally different, but it's doubles.   
Afterwards, they have a great strategy against us. I think all over the match they were better. As you see, 6-2 first set, it was no ad games so everything can change. They found their momentum, and they keep going.   
Of course I have to say it wasn't my day today, but it's ATP Cup, so every match every day is different. We are still in the game, so we are looking forward for another game. We just need to learn from today and go forward.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT