NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: FLYERS v BLACKHAWKS
May 31, 2010
Marian Hossa
Antti Niemi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Chicago: 2
  Philadelphia: 1 
   
  Q. Antti, obviously, the scoreboard was different than the first game. Were you seeing the puck better, were you getting better help from the blue liners? What was the difference for you tonight?   
 ANTTI NIEMI: I think our "D" played maybe a little bit better in front of the net in blocking shots and letting me see the puck. But it's always a little bit about the luck, too, how you see the puck, and how it bounces.   
  
  Q. Can you just talk about what you felt right after you saw that puck go in the net?   
 MARIAN HOSSA: Oh, I mean, it's been a long time. Just try to work hard. And when the bounce, the garbage goal I scored went in the net, I was looking for some ugly goal like that to get the offense going.   
 Like I said before, our line creates also a lot of chances, but we weren't able to capitalize on the good chances. And finally, it seems like game before and today we got lucky bounces. So a relief, definitely.   
  
  Q. You had said during that little goalless drought that you weren't getting frustrated. But now that you've scored, can you tell us the truth, were you getting frustrated?   
 MARIAN HOSSA: Yeah, you know, it bugged me definitely not going goals for me. Trying to create offense, either passing, but when I'm shooting the puck doesn't want to get in. I try, like I said, I tried not to get frustrated, but it's in your head, you know.   
 I was waiting for some, like I said, just garbage goal and hopefully now that our line keeps going offensively better and better.   
  
  Q. How much has your confidence grown from making the team in Helsinki when it was tight between you and Corey Crawford, and Corey got sent down and to now, the journey in eight months?   
 ANTTI NIEMI: Well, it's like night and day. It's a huge difference, and I think that's the biggest reason why I can play this well right now.   
  
  Q. Right after the game, you're out there on the ice, the crowd's chanting your name, what did that feel like to you?   
 ANTTI NIEMI: Well, it's an unbelievable feeling how the people react to our game.   
  
  Q. The last two years you've been so close. Last year you were in this same situation with Detroit up two games to none after winning two home games only to swallow a pretty bitter pill against Pittsburgh. How can you draw on that experience and maybe show your teammates that it's not over yet, you've still got to play it one game at a time?   
 MARIAN HOSSA: Definitely, I mean, I don't like go away in the past, but in the same situation everybody knows how good things we've got going on right now winning both games at home. It's really great for the confidence and really good for momentum.   
 Right now going into their building it's going to be really important how we start out Game 3. And that's going to be one of the most important games we play this year, definitely.   
  
  Q. There's been a lot of talk about how depth has gotten where you guys are at this point in the Playoffs. With the first line struggling a little bit, how important is it that your line has played the way it has to this point?   
 MARIAN HOSSA: I mean, our first line were carrying the team through the whole Playoffs. I don't think they're struggling; they're creating chances, but they cannot, you know, in the first two games they couldn't put a puck in the net. You know, which is good thing we have good depth, and the other line could step up. That's what good teams have. Right now it's different line turns.   
  
  Q. Every time you have a game where you have four or five goals, it seems that you're able to refocus where you come back to a shut down game where you give up none or maybe one or two. How are you able to do that?   
 ANTTI NIEMI: It's hard to say. It's a great thing that it's been that way. I want to keep it that way later too. But maybe it comes out of how I feel after the bad game or game allowing five or four goals. I don't know how it happens.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT