NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: FLYERS v BLACKHAWKS
May 27, 2010
Antti Niemi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. (Question off microphone).
 ANTTI NIEMI: Well, it's been, of course you can play hockey without playing all the bills and getting the rights to the [indiscernible]. 
 So of course it's a huge part, of course it's a huge part. I don't know if at some point it doesn't really matter anymore, you know, when you get - when you're a kid, it's the most important thing.

 Q. You're always supportive of your dreams?
 ANTTI NIEMI: Yeah, sure. For all the sports that I did, it meant a lot to him, too.

 Q. Was hockey the only sport you wanted to do above all?
 ANTTI NIEMI: I played soccer earlier around. They were both just as important until some age.

 Q. A little less expensive?
 ANTTI NIEMI: Yeah, it was almost free in Finland, playing outside.

 Q. At this point are you still sort of [indiscernible] everybody there to a degree, sort of focused on this, not a whole lot of daily interaction with them?
 ANTTI NIEMI: Just pretty much waiting for the games. When this is over, win or lose, are you going to go back and spend some time with family.
 ANTTI NIEMI: Yeah, sure, I'm going to go pretty fast. It always goes fast, being summer in Finland. That's what I'm going to do.

 Q. What do you think of all this attention?
 ANTTI NIEMI: Well, it's not the main point, but it's part of the job. It's great. You've done something right when you're getting all this attention.

 Q. Has it sunk in you guys are playing for the big prize now, or you're so locked in you're just looking at it as another hockey series in front of you?
 ANTTI NIEMI: Of course, it's the biggest Final, but still you want to keep your focus on just the other ones too.

 Q. Some guys play their whole careers and never get this shot. You're 26 years old. Did you ever think you would have this opportunity?
 ANTTI NIEMI: It's possible for a long time. Not earlier, not really.

 Q. Your game exploded this year. We saw you in Rockford you were good in Rockford this year you've been unbelievable, how do you explain all the improvement you've made this year? 
 ANTTI NIEMI: I think just getting some good games and getting more and more confident from good games, I think that's the biggest thing. 

 Q. How do you see this series unfolding? What kind of series do you expect it to be?
 ANTTI NIEMI: I think they're going to be really, really hard to play against for us. And I think it's going to be a long and tight series.

 Q. You're the first one there, first one out on practice. Do you feel like outworking everybody would make you a good goalie? 
 ANTTI NIEMI: I've always thought that it's going to be the main key for being a good goalie. But, of course, I think we train also just by our coaches a little more than the players. That's why goalies are pretty much the last guys coming out of the rink.

 Q. Have you thought that Playoffs are different than the regular season, it's much more intense since you've been three rounds and have done well?
 ANTTI NIEMI: Not too much. Of course, it's a little bit more tight always six games. It's going to be one game in two days. So it's a little bit more tight. But I think you just gotta keep focusing on your own game and doing the same things as you do otherwise. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT