SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 29, 2010
Bill Loeffler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What was the putter change today?  
 BILL LOEFFLER: I went from a belly putter to a standard putter and it felt better. And I think the greens were a little bit faster today.   
  
  Q. When was the last time you played with a short putter?  
 BILL LOEFFLER: That's a good question. I would say 10, 12 years ago. I think that was probably the last time.   
  
  Q. First time in a decade that you've actually used a shorter putter?  
 BILL LOEFFLER: Yes. Who knows what it's going to be tomorrow. It could be taller than me.   
  
  Q. What is the, what's the difference of those two putters?  
 BILL LOEFFLER: Weight.   
  
  Q. Certain greens you like one putter better than another?  
 BILL LOEFFLER: Yeah, they both look real good, but the one is a little lighter that I used today. And thankfully the greens were a little faster and that helped.   
 So the look on it is, it's not, this one is not a face balanced putter, so I can use the toe, more like a Ben Crenshaw putt, instead of just straight back. That might be too technical, I don't know. But anyway, it's a different weighting system so it helps a lot.  
  
  Q. Was there some point during yesterday's round where you told you yourself I need to make this change?  
 BILL LOEFFLER: Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Maybe the first hole. I don't know.   
 I got off to an okay start yesterday, but at some point I just totally lost feel and tempo and rhythm and everything. I don't know if it was just the situation I was in, I could have been 5-under for the tournament had I putted okay, even just okay. And I think that probably got to me a little bit.   
  
  Q. So putting was the biggest issue yesterday?  
 BILL LOEFFLER: Yeah, and then that got off into, oh, I got to hit it closer, oh, I got to go at this pin, because I'm not going to make a 10-footer, I got to hit it closer. It feeds on itself. It's a monster.  
  
  Q. Is the belly putter still in one piece?  
 BILL LOEFFLER: Can you believe it? You know me, you're just surprised. It's in the dungeon, it will never see the light of day again.   
  
  Q. Were your birdies long today?  
 BILL LOEFFLER: I had about a 5-footer on 2.   
 10-footer on 3.   
 Probably 12 feet on 9.   
 About a 6-footer on 11.   
 A 10-footer on 15. That was it. Nothing huge.   
  
  Q. The club pros they're not used to playing in big Major Championship crowds, I know you certainly had some experience in it, but you're a local guy too, so you got a lot of local support.   
 BILL LOEFFLER: Yeah, a lot of people.  
  
  Q. Do you look around and see the crowd?  
 BILL LOEFFLER: I try to. It just depends. If I'm playing well I'm looking around, like, hey. If I'm playing bad, I don't even look up.   
 So, no, I try to. There's so many nice people, they're all encouraging so it's good to at least try to acknowledge them.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT