SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
March 31, 2016
Johnson Wagner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DOUG MILNE: Johnson Wagner, thanks for joining us for a few minutes after a great start, bogey-free 6-under, 66 today.  Your tenth start, I believe, here at the Shell Houston Open where you're the past champion, obviously in 2008 and nearly got your second title here last year.  Obviously a place that's near and dear to your heart.  Just a few comments on today's round.
JOHNSON WAGNER: It was a good day.  I've been struggling mightily.  I think I shot 44 on the front-9 of the Pro-Am yesterday.  I was a little shaky starting off today.  Made a bunch of pars early.  Birdied 15 and then made the turn and just kind of caught fire.  Birdied 1 and 4, 5 and then eagled 8.  So, it was a great day.  Golf course was fabulous.  Weather held out, which was very good.  Didn't want to play in the rain all day.  Yeah, I love playing here, Golf Club of Houston, the Houston Golf Association, obviously Shell, title sponsor.  It's my favorite event of the year.  I love the golf course and the people.
Q. So you had no idea after the Pro-Am, you're like, "Who knows what's going to happen?"
JOHNSON WAGNER: I made a couple birdies finishing the back-9.  I was playing with Roger Clemens and Herm Edwards.  It was questioned whether or not I was actually a professional golfer at one point, and I started the day with four balls in my bag for the Pro-Am, which is usually plenty, and I think I lost balls on 4, 5, 6, and I had one left, and Jordan Spieth was in front of us, my caddy actually, Matt, ran over on the 7th tee or the 8th tee and grabbed a sleeve of balls from Jordan Spieth thankfully to finish the round.  Coming in, took a couple videos on the back-9 and saw something that I was doing and kind of fixed it on the fly, and good session yesterday on the range and yeah, it was all good today.  Pretty solid.  Hit a lot of greens, made some putts, and kept the ball out of the water.
Q. What were you doing that you fixed?
JOHNSON WAGNER: I was just getting stuck a little underneath, so I was either blocking it right or flip hooking it.  Kind of typical thing I do wrong.
Q. What is it about this place that allows you to kind of come to life despite struggling?  Last year you were struggling coming in, this year you're struggling coming in.
JOHNSON WAGNER: I putt really well around the greens.  I see them really nice.  I think just the tee shot, the lines off of tees, with the exception of yesterday really fit my eye.  I hit a draw, right to left shot.  And I think this golf course favors that.  I don't know.  I just -- I don't think it would -- I hope the tournament never moves golf courses, but I don't think it would really matter.  I just have a love affair with this event and with Houston and the Houston Golf Association.  Hopefully if the tournament ever does move, I would play well wherever in Houston.  It's more the city, I just love being here.
Q. What's been the issue since the beginning of this year?
JOHNSON WAGNER: Other than just mental, you know, weak knees.  I've been driving the ball great.  But iron play has been pretty poor.  I switched irons this week, Titleist AP2s.  My iron play has gotten better immediately.  Worked hard earlier in the week on my putting and nice to see it pay off, even yesterday make some bogey putts and today made some nice putts.
DOUG MILNE: Short and sweet.  Easy enough.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT