JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 11, 2014
Johnson Wagner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Two good days. 
JOHNSON WAGNER:   Yeah, two very good days.   I think I've shot my career best lows at Deere Run the last two days.   I've never played very well here, but I love the area, and gosh, it's been four years since I've been here, and I'm just having a great week and really enjoying the golf course.

Q.   Anything in particular working for you?
JOHNSON WAGNER:   I'm driving the ball really well.   My iron play is fantastic.   My putter is good.   It's effective, but I can get it a lot hotter than it's been, and hopefully I'll see that this weekend.

Q.   The last hole, was that the only bogey you had all day?
JOHNSON WAGNER:   It was, it was.   Gosh, I'm a little hot right now about it, but I'll settle down here in a bit and take a lot of positives away from these last two days.

Q.   You don't have the pressure of being the second round leader. 
JOHNSON WAGNER:   I like having the lead, whenever, wherever, for however long I can keep it.

Q.   How do you feel maybe if the weather changes?   That may affect the outcome or how people are adjusting their game. 
JOHNSON WAGNER:   I don't know, I haven't really looked at the weather much.   Is it supposed to rain? 

Q.   A lot of people are saying that. 
JOHNSON WAGNER:   Obviously I hate playing in the rain, so I hope it doesn't rain, but this time of year you expect some thunder storms and stuff, but yeah, I'll see what it gives me and go from there.

Q.   What difference was it for you morning versus afternoon wave?
JOHNSON WAGNER:   The wind was up today, but I just stuck to my game plan, hit a lot of fairways, hit some beautiful iron shots, and rolled in a couple more putts today than I did yesterday. 

Q.   Do you remember the course being the same as it was pretty much when you were here last as far as not really changing?
JOHNSON WAGNER:   I knew what to expect.   I played nine Monday, nine Tuesday, and yeah, the golf course is great.   I never come in with very good form here and never played well, but gosh, I'm really enjoying it right now.   It's suiting my eye, and I am playing really well.

Q.   You were talking earlier like you've played well the last couple weeks, some pretty good rounds.   Feeling like you're getting some consistency put together here?
JOHNSON WAGNER:   Definitely.   I'm putting the ball in play.   I've been struggling off the tee.   It's kind of been going all over the place, and the game is a lot easier from the fairway.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT