RBC HERITAGE
April 18, 2013
Johnson Wagner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   It seemed like the weather forecast and the afternoon you had today it was day to go get it?
JOHNSON WAGNER:   It was great.   The wind almost laid down for us.   It was breezy on 17, 18, 1 and 2, but kind of laid down.   It played real nice out there today.

Q.   It looks like tomorrow afternoon it's going to get really nasty, really windy.   And somebody is going to get the raw end of the draw.   It looks like it might be you guys. 
JOHNSON WAGNER:   Do you think we'll finish in time before the weather? 

Q.   I hope so. 
JOHNSON WAGNER:   Me, too.

Q.   Because on 16, 17 and 18 it gets really brutal. 
JOHNSON WAGNER:   I remember when Boo won, we got winded out on Sunday.   Unfortunately I missed the cut but I was hanging around watching, remembering all the trees came down.   This is not the kind of place you want to play in high, gusty, really bad weather.

Q.   What have you been working on?   It hasn't been as good a year so far, or at least yet, than it has been the last few years.   What are you working on?   And do you feel a little more confidence now?
JOHNSON WAGNER:   I worked really hard this off‑season on my short game.   And as bad as I've played so far this year, it's paid off a little bit.   I've made a couple of cuts solely because of my short game because I've been striking it so bad.   I've been working really hard on getting a little more turn on the backswing, taking a little more inside.   And my transition is really quick, so I've been working on being a little more patient at the top and just letting it happen.

Q.   Does a golf course like this, when you have to think golf shot on every shot, does it actually help you get out of your own way?
JOHNSON WAGNER:   Every tee shot out here it's like I'm as nervous as ever.   You really have to focus on every tee shot around this golf course. 
It's nice that I know what I'm working on.   It was nice to wake up this morning and feel like I had a clear picture of what I was going to try to do on every shot.   It's been a while since I felt that way.   And I'm happy to put a good round up.   It's been a while since I had a Thursday good round.   I'm just happy to be playing tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT