HUMANA CHALLENGE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CLINTON FOUNDATION
January 22, 2012
Johnson Wagner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What a two‑week run, win last week, a great run today.   You dropped a couple of long bombs to get yourself in it. 
JOHNSON WAGNER:   I played really nicely.   We had a great group out there.   We had a great time.   I was real loose all day.   I had a couple opportunities on the back nine that didn't drop, but I'm really happy.   Would have been happier if I would have gotten that eagle putt to the hole on the last.

Q.   And you had Robert Garrigus the first three days that was a great group, too?
JOHNSON WAGNER:   Yeah, he played his last 46 holes in 26‑under or something, so, yeah, I saw a lot of good golf. 

Q.   You got quite a following now with the mustache, don't you?
JOHNSON WAGNER:   Yeah, it's great.   I'm on the first tee box today, they looked pretty good, their 'stashes were probably a little darker than mine, so it was nice to have support out there today.   No family in town, so it was great to have guys following me.

Q.   We can swear to everyone that yours is at least real.   What now?   You're on such a run.   Do you keep playing?
JOHNSON WAGNER:   No, going home.   Looking forward to going home to see my family all week.   I've been planning that all year.   Been planning to take Pebble off, but I'm in a little different position now with that top 64, so there may be something there that I need to add in.   But I'm really happy going home and taking some time off.   I never really played well there, so it would probably hurt me more than help. 

Q.   If you don't play Pebble, where would you play next?
JOHNSON WAGNER:   I'll play Phoenix the week after next, and then I'm going to play L.A. and then defending Mayacoba in Mexico, and then the Honda Classic.   It would be hard to turn down the Match Play even though, I mean ‑‑ I'm not ‑‑ I don't think I'm going to be in the Match Play quite yet.   I was 92 going into this week, but who knows. 
But a good week in Phoenix, yeah, defending champ, I think the guys in Mayacoba would understand if I went and played the Match Play. 

Q.   Good two weeks in a row.   I don't know if you know this, but 10 great rounds in the 60s.   Did you know that?
JOHNSON WAGNER:   Yeah, every round under par, yeah, it's been a great start to the year. 

Q.   This course and last week's courses, I mean they couldn't be more different. 
JOHNSON WAGNER:   I've been playing well and working on things with my coach and then had a short game guy here this week, Tony Martinez, and just got a lot of great work in.   It's easy to see results when you work hard and practice hard.   And I've got time next week to celebrate, but I want to keep getting better and better. 

Q.   How cool is it to have those guys follow you, like a group of guys, they're Canadian, I guess?
JOHNSON WAGNER:   They're from Calgary.   That's great.   It was great seeing mustaches out there.   I'm looking forward to Phoenix, I'm sure I'm going to get my fair share of criticism.

Q.   Does your wife like the 'stash more now?
JOHNSON WAGNER:   I think she says it's got three more weeks of growth since I've seen her last, so we'll see in the morning when I get home if she likes it.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT