SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
March 31, 2009
Johnson Wagner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MARK WILLIAMS: Johnson Wagner, welcome to the Shell Houston Open Media Room. Thank you for coming in, defending champion. We appreciate your time.
 Just talk about the year since you won. I mean obviously it was a very exciting day for you and obviously got you into The Masters. Talk about that experience and what's happened since.
 JOHNSON WAGNER: Yes, it was an honor winning here last year, being my first event. Going to The Masters the next week was real special. I wish I would have had a little more time to enjoy the win. There's not a better place to enjoy it since Augusta. 
 Since then I've been trying to get back in the winner's circle. Trying too hard. Forgot how I did it here. Being out here last couple days has put me in a good frame of mind and really excited to play golf this week.
 MARK WILLIAMS: Obviously you have an affinity with this place.
 JOHNSON WAGNER: Every hole I walk on I root for a shot. A lot of good memories.
 MARK WILLIAMS: Let's open it up for questions.

 Q. Johnson, what was it the last year, the four days out here? Can you describe how things came together for you and is that something you can recapture again?
 JOHNSON WAGNER: The week before The Masters -- and seemed like I was in here everyday after the round and people kept saying if you win you go to The Masters. I didn't think about anything like that. 
 The most focused I've ever been on one shot at a time. It was just an incredible mental performance more than anything just being able to compose myself and just not get ahead of myself. Being here, hopefully, I can recapture some of that.

 Q. What are your theories on why you haven't been able to recapture that?
 JOHNSON WAGNER: Maybe every time I get in position on a Thursday or Friday to get the lead or get up close, I start thinking about winning the golf tournament and I think that that's the wrong way to go about it and I know that. It's hard -- everybody thinks that's way. It's how you handle it and turn your thoughts around.

 Q. Lot has been made of the set-up here at Redstone where they try to get as close to Augusta as possible. How is the comparison to last year's tournament versus playing at Augusta?
 JOHNSON WAGNER: Honestly, I've never played a better conditioned golf course. I think the fairways out here are -- I don't want to say anything is better than Augusta, but I think the fairways and greens were faster and maybe tighter and it's very accurate, the greens are fast, not quite as sloping as Augusta but it was very accurate and they've done a great job this year as well. That's why you see such a good field here because people have heard how well it prepares you for that event.

 Q. Johnson, another subject, there's an idea of putting microphones on caddies. I wonder about your thoughts on that and if you had any thoughts on that, do you think it's a good idea or a bad idea?
 JOHNSON WAGNER: I've talked to my caddy about it quite a bit. This week is the first week. I personally think it's a terrible idea. There's a lot of things we say out there that I don't personally want being heard.

 Q. Like what?
 JOHNSON WAGNER: People want to listen to what's said. I just think that if you put an extra boom mike out there in the fairway as opposed to one, one mike for the three-some or two-some, now you have two and you can have a mike guy with each group and you wouldn't have to hear everything.
 We're at work and we share stories and things that we say that nobody should hear. It's between us. I think that it would inhibit some of the players and caddy's conversations. I think that would make us all uncomfortable.

 Q. Your view seems to be kind of the general view. Have you picked up on it?
 JOHNSON WAGNER: I've heard a couple caddies say yeah, they would do it but I don't think anybody is really excited about it. Someone listening to everything you say? It's just -- I don't think it's going to happen but we'll see. I hear it's optional. It's not mandatory.

 Q. What do you make of the field this year? It's stronger than last year.
 JOHNSON WAGNER: I think a lot of European Tour players that maybe played in Europe or didn't play the week before The Masters have heard from their friends that have played here. I know Lee Westwood and Padraig Harrington have played the last couple years. I'm sure those guys have told them, "Hey, come over, play the week before. It's in great condition. The greens are lightning fast. It's an incredible golf tournament. Come play."
 I think that's had a lot to do with it. You've got Rory McIlroy and Sergio, lot of guys are playing. It's fantastic.

 Q. So much is made of Tiger not coming. Do y'all when you play at a tournament look to see if he's signed up or does it affect your odds of winning? Do you feel like you've got a better chance?
 JOHNSON WAGNER: Obviously we have a better chance if Tiger is not in the field.
 You know, he never plays the week of a Major. He never played Atlanta when it was 50 miles, hundred miles away from Augusta. No one would ever expect him to come play here. 
 But it's great that the Shell Houston Open has gotten such a great field. He'll be missed but the tournament will be as good as ever, I'm sure.

 Q. Of all the guys that are in this field, you kind of brought up Rory, who obviously hasn't turned 20 yet, what does that say about -- what have you seen of him?
 JOHNSON WAGNER: I think the only event we played together this year was The Honda. I saw him on the range a little bit. I've watched him on TV. It's amazing. 
 His swing, he commits to his follow-through and his follow-through is so committed with every swing. I've never seen anybody except for maybe Adam Scott commit to swings more than Rory does.
 And he obviously hits it a long way and got incredible game to win at Dubai and put himself in the position he has so many times on the European Tour. I would love to get the chance to play with him.

 Q. What do you read into your week last week, your best finish since the season opener? Did you feel like you're starting to find some things?
 JOHNSON WAGNER: I've been hitting the ball well. I've been driving it well pretty well all year. I just haven't been putting very -- making any putts. Finally made a couple. Still didn't putt great but some putts went in the hole. And I am getting on some greens this week that are my favorite on Tour. My ball striking couldn't be better. I know my putting will be there, too.

 Q. How do things stand with the due date and all that?
 JOHNSON WAGNER: She's doing great right now, still due April 21st but I think it's going to come the week of Hilton Head personally but I think we're good this week. 
 She's got the rules, office phone number. If she needs to call, she'll call them and they'll come get me. I hope it doesn't come to that.

 Q. You haven't given her your cell number yet?
 JOHNSON WAGNER: She's got it. I won't have my phone on me. 
 MARK WILLIAMS: Anymore questions? I appreciate you coming in. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT