MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2008
Johnson Wagner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How was it? 
 JOHNSON WAGNER: It was great. I 3-putted three of my first four holes and I came back nicely and played well all day. Hit a lot of greens and fairways. Hit the ball better than I could have expected.

 Q. Did you have at the beginning have trouble pulling the trigger on greens?
 JOHNSON WAGNER: I don't even think the putting green was as fast as the greens out there. It was hard for me to get used to. I had some long putts early. I flinched on the first one. I was a little nervous there. But settled into the round and it was great. Played really well. 

 Q. Obviously, once you got your legs under you you played beautiful?
 JOHNSON WAGNER: I did. I felt like I played well all day. I hit a lot of good shots. And I played smart out there. Missed it where I should have missed it and hit a lot of greens in the right places.

 Q. How much of today was trying to put up a good number and how much of it was inexperience?
 JOHNSON WAGNER: I was talking to my caddie, we were walking down the second fairway and I was kind of in awe of the place as I will be every day, but I said, I want to have a good time, I want to enjoy this experience, but I also want to get into a real tournament feel and focus. And I think that I managed to do both. 

 Q. Are you in that mode now do you think?
 JOHNSON WAGNER: Definitely. I got very comfortable out there and I'm very surprised at how little nervousness I had going on today. And it was just a really good day. 

 Q. What's your feeling on moving forward? What are your aspirations now, making the cut?
 JOHNSON WAGNER: I want to win. 72 is a good opener, so we'll see. 

 Q. Was there a shot or two that stood out?
 JOHNSON WAGNER: 17. If you go right of that pin you might as well write five on the card. And I could have hit the 5 and tried to get close to that pin, but I took the 6 and hammered it and kept it 30 feet below the hole where you're supposed to. 
 And my up-and-down from 13 from left with the putter for birdie was great. 
 12 was great. Hitting that was great. There was a lot of shots I was proud of out there.

 Q. What did you hit out there?
 JOHNSON WAGNER: A little 8-iron.

 Q. Do you think you still got the momentum going from last week? Do you think you're still on that same high?
 JOHNSON WAGNER: I finally started hitting the ball well last week and I'm definitely on the same high and hopefully it will last forever. 

 Q. Was there something that clicked on the back nine in your game?
 JOHNSON WAGNER: No, I made a good putt on 18 for birdie. And I kept hitting so many greens on the front nine, I only made one mistake on nine where I hit it in the left bunker where you can't hit it, but I just had a couple putts that went in, I had a couple short putts for birdie and it was just great. 

 Q. Did you do anything differently talking to Steve coming down 2 did you stop looking at the crowd?
 JOHNSON WAGNER: No, I looked. I think even just getting that off of my chest, those feelings, I think that helped a lot. Just and he realizes it and he said it's a bit of both. It's the Masters, it's not a regular PGA TOUR event. So it was, I think it was important for me to just talk about it a little.

 Q. Nerves on the first tee?
 JOHNSON WAGNER: Yes, of course. But it was the first tee shot, it was a little harder today because that bunker was in reach, but no. Nowhere near what I thought I would be like. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT