BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 18, 2007
Johnson Wagner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOE CHEMCYZ:  Thanks for stopping for a couple of minutes, maybe just talk a little about your round the first two days. 
 JOHNSON WAGNER:  11-under par, one bogey so far through 36 holes, fairways and greens, I think I missed one green yesterday and made bogey, and I missed one today in the fringe right off the green.  I've been hitting it where I want and made a lot of putts, and I left quite a bit out there as well.  Very happy to be where I am right now. 
 I definitely made a lot of birdies, started well today.  Birdied the 11th hole, my second, and then turned with the eagle on 18 and birdied 1 and 3, so they were all kind of bunched together. 

 Q.  Doesn't sound like you're suffering any case of rookie nerves at all, do Nationwide guys have rookie nerves coming out here? 
 JOHNSON WAGNER:  Last week I was definitely nervous the first couple of days and all of the names, basically the people I've grown up watching, Vijay and Furyk, and I was nervous. 
 Playing with amateurs, it's kind of a little different ballgame this week.  So a little less nervous and hopefully that had continue as I get more experience out here.  But I definitely think we are susceptible to a lot of nerves. 

 Q.  This is your first time in this tournament, your first time at these courses, did you get much practice time in given that there's four courses you have to learn or did you just kind of play it by ear? 
 JOHNSON WAGNER:  Well, when I got here on Monday morning, I went over and basically just rode around the PGA West, Palmer Course and played the front nine at La Quinta Monday, as well.  And on Tuesday I played 36 at Bermuda Dunes and then the Classic Club.  So I've seen most of the holes, played most of them and feel fairly comfortable on all of them.  

 Q.  Can you tell us about your eagle? 
 JOHNSON WAGNER:  My eagle was great.  I had a good number with a hybrid and had a whack right at the flag and just kind of  cut a hybrid up there into the green about 20 feet, and if the putt had not hit the hole, I probably would have made par; it went pretty fast.  But luckily it hit the back of the cup and went in. 

 Q.  How much did winning the couple of times last year on the Nationwide make you feel like you really belong at the next level, as opposed to maybe not winning, but still getting through on the top 20? 
 JOHNSON WAGNER:  Well, it helped a lot.  I almost got through Q-School, I guess it was 2005 Tour School to be out there last year.  I struggled a lot in the final round, and I think it was really a blessing that I missed that week and got another year on the Nationwide Tour and was fortunate enough to win twice.  I think it's helped tremendously. 
 I definitely feel like I belong out here and I have seen guys that I played with for years out win on the Nationwide Tour go on to win on the PGA TOUR and I feel a lot of comfort with that and hopefully I can do that, winning multiple times. 
 JOE CHEMCYZ:  Just go through your scorecard, you said you started on the back and birdied 11. 
 JOHNSON WAGNER:  Yes, hit driver off the tee, 8-iron to about two feet and tapped it in. 
 1, I was close to the green, I sliced it through so far right, I took a provisional, thought I hit it out-of-bounds.  Luckily I got up will it was in bounds and chipped it up there to four feet and made it. 
 3, I hit a sand wedge to about a foot and a half. 
 JOE CHEMCYZ:  How close were you to being out-of-bounds? 
 JOHNSON WAGNER:  It ended up being about ten yards, but it looked a lot worse, the fairway. 
 JOE CHEMCYZ:  Thank you. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT