U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 17, 2018
Mickey DeMorat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. It's done.
MICKEY DeMORAT: Yeah.
Q. Four days, and a great experience for you.  Talk about the feelings of competing in your initial U.S. Open.
MICKEY DeMORAT: Man, it's just been an amazing week.  I mean, every day has been awesome.  I just look forward to coming out here every day and just seeing all these people out here.  It just makes golf so much more fun when you're able to play in front of a big crowd like this, and I've made so many great friends out here, and everyone's been so supportive of me.
It's just been a great first pro tournament for me, and I've gained a lot of confidence in my game this week competing out there with these guys and all these great PGA players and big name players that I've watched on TV for so many years.  And just to be out here with them competing has been just a huge confidence boost for me, and I've learned so much from them as well about how to handle the tough conditions and a tough course.
Yeah, I was really happy with the way I played.  Today, I felt like I could have been a few shots better, but you can say that about most rounds.  So overall, very happy.
Q. You stayed out here longer than some of those big names we talked about.  That has to register with you for what you were able to achieve this week.
MICKEY DeMORAT: Yeah.  You know, it was just crazy on Thursday.  I knew the conditions were tough, but you just never know until you come in and see the scores how everyone's handling the conditions.  When it's tough out there, it's tough for everybody.  If you're off a little bit with your game on this course, it can really come up and bite you.
It's a very demanding course overall, especially around the greens.  I mean, I played with Spieth and Reed in the practice rounds.  And seeing how they played, I learned a lot about the course.  Even though some of the big names went home, I still really learned a lot from them and gained a lot of confidence.
Q. How long do you think it's going to take you to come down from this week?
MICKEY DeMORAT: It's going to be -- I mean, I've just been on the phone constantly talking to people.  It's been awesome.  I just am so thankful for everybody, all the support and help I've gotten even to get to this point.
Once I get back home and everything settles down, I'm just going to kind of reflect on everything.  I've been taking notes every night on just the stuff that happens throughout the day, all the little stuff that I don't want to forget because I've just had so many cool experiences out here just meeting people and just seeing different things.
I definitely -- this is just going to give my golfing career a little bit of a boost starting out, which is great.
Q. Do you typically keep a journal or a diary?
MICKEY DeMORAT: Yeah, I do.  I wouldn't call it a diary.  It's more just like I keep notes on what I'm working on in my game.  And after tournaments, I like to kind of go back and think about what I could have done better, what did well, just what I was thinking and feeling overall.
I like to do that after each round of this tournament just because I was here for such a long period of time, even after the practice rounds, to, you know, how to play the course and everything.
Yeah, it's nice to go back and kind of check on that for the future reference.
Q. What do you think is going to be the first purchase with the prize winnings?  You've got to pay the caddie first.
MICKEY DeMORAT: Maybe.  I don't know.  He might be getting something.  He might have cost me a couple shots.  No, I'm just kidding.  No, he was good.  It was great having him out here for Father's Day.  It was awesome having him here all week.  It was just a great experience, something I'll never forget, for sure.
Q. What about taking something from this moving forward for your pro career?  Is there one thing that maybe stands out that you're going to say, okay, I'm going to do this because I learned it at Shinnecock?
MICKEY DeMORAT: You know, just some of the shots that I was able to hit under a little bit of pressure, I just feel I'll be able to look back on that and be able to draw from that because just seeing all these big names, how they hit certain shots, and then I'm able to kind of -- I know I can do the same thing, and I felt like I could do the same thing.  And I didn't always pull it off, but a lot of times I did.
Just even the way I was able to hit some shots around the greens, the way I was able to hit some drives that were demanding.  I can't think of any one specific shot.  But just overall, just being able to go out there and feel comfortable enough to play at the level I knew I was capable of, I think I'll be able to draw on that in the future.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT