U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2018
Mickey DeMorat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. First professional event and you are plus 2.
MICKEY DeMORAT: Yeah.
Q. At Shinnecock Hills, that's not too bad.
MICKEY DeMORAT: Yeah, I was really happy with the way I was playing out there.  I started off a little bit shaky.  Had a couple of bogeys through my first three holes, but once I started making some pars and made my first birdie on No. 9, which was a tough hole always up the hill there, and I feel like that settled me down.
And with it being so windy out here early this morning, I knew the course was going to play tough.  I knew if I could keep making pars, I would keep right there with the leaders.
Unfortunately, made a double on 14 after I hit the wrong ball out of the fescue.  I had to take a two-shot penalty.  But I was able to rebound after that with a couple of birdies, got a couple nice putts to drop for me.  Yeah, I was really happy with the day overall, finishing at 72.
Q. If you hit the right ball, you are at even par.
MICKEY DeMORAT: Yeah.  You never know, but two-shot penalty.  Could have been better for sure.
Q. Anger might have affected your next shot?
MICKEY DeMORAT: It might have.  I pulled driver on the next hole and hit iron in a practice round, got down there, hit a wedge close and made the putt.  I wouldn't say I was pissed off, but I was kind of wanting to get those shots back, for sure.
Then to finish with nice pars at 17 and 18 which are tough holes throughout.
Q. When you got here, what were the emotions that ran through you?  This is your first event.  It's the national championship of golf and you are probably at one of the hardest venues that's ever hosted it.  What went through your mind as you were practicing?
MICKEY DeMORAT: I mean, the first hole I played was No. 10 and I was like, this hole is not too bad.  Then I go the up to the green and I was like this is pretty tough.
I got to 11 and I saw that green was just as crazy.  So I knew that it was going to be really difficult out here for scoring, just -- then just being in the fairway.  If you are not in the fairway, you can't play from the rough out here.  I'm not used to having that much pressure on my tee shot.
Normal tournaments in college, I can play from the rough a little bit.  But out here, I mean, you have to be in the short stuff if you want to get anywhere close to the green.  Then even when you are hitting to the green, you are having to land the ball in such small areas to get it close.
It's just great to be able to compete out here against these guys.  Just walking the same fairways as Rory and Jordan Spieth and Tiger is pretty cool.  I'm just trying to enjoy the experience.
Q. How do you keep that walk going for the week?  And for tomorrow what is your strategy?
MICKEY DeMORAT: I would love to be here for the weekend.  When I'm out there -- the thing is, if you make pars out here, you are doing well.  It's not like I have to push for birdies.  I just have to make sure that I'm giving myself chances to make birdies.  Being on the green, giving myself birdie putts, taking pars.  You can't really scramble out here.  You need to be sharp off the tee and into the greens.  It's a good start today.  Obviously it's going to be -- I have to have another good day tomorrow to make the weekend.  I haven't taken myself out of it, which is nice.  Good spot.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT