PACIFIC-12 CONFERENCE MEDIA DAY
July 26, 2013
Lydia Murphy-Stephans
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   I'd like to introduce the president of the Pac‑12 Network.   
LYDIA MURPHY‑STEPHANS:   Hello, it's wonderful to see everyone here as we get ready for another season of Pac‑12 football and what a difference a year makes.   Last year at this time we were scrambling to get the network ready for the launch date and occasionally wondering if we had everything in place and were going to be able to launch on time.   Well, we not only made it, as you heard earlier this morning, Commissioner Scott mentioned we produced 550 live events in hundreds of hours in original shoulder programming.   
Indeed it was an exciting year for the Pac‑12 Network and we're expecting this year to be even better with 750 live events and more than 200 hours of new, original programming and studio shows.   
Please allow me to share some appetizers of what's to come this year starting with football.   (Video played).  
I hope that gets you ready for football, 25 games this year, nearly half of all Pac‑12 football home games on the Pac‑12 Network.   In the first three weeks of the season, we will have great match‑ups, with 10 our 12 schools including 7 home‑openers on the networks.   As the season progresses, all our schools will be featured including some great rivalry games.   
We're just as excited about our new programming.   Some of you have been watching one of our new series titled "Varsity Days."   It premiered this last year.   Here is a look.   (Video playing).  
LYDIA MURPHY‑STEPHANS:   In addition to "Varsity Days," we produced another one called Pac‑12 Football Weekly.   It's what the fans have been asking for every Wednesday all year long starting August28th, hosted by Mike Yam and Rick Neuheisel.   Let's look at a tease.   
(Video playing).   
LYDIA MURPHY‑STEPHANS:   Starting August8th, Mike and Rick will their show on the road visiting practices for another series we're calling "Football Training Camp" they will review the team's season and give you a firsthand account from the training camps including interviews with the coaches and players and in Septemberwe will debut our Flagship Studio show "The Pac‑12 Report" to give you have a weekly dose of all Pac‑12 sports including football.   Mike Yam and Ashley Adamson host this show that will air every Monday night year‑round.   Our most innovative program this year is called "The Drive" a cinematic, hard‑knocked approach to the football season.   
We will have crews and football teams at two of our schools from training camp through the end of the season.   Viewers will get an unprecedented, all‑access, inside look at those schools each week as they prepare for the next opponent.   
I suspect this will be the "must‑see" TV series on the Pac‑12 Network and I know I will be watching.   The series premieres with a one‑how far special on September11th and will continue through the season every Wednesday night at 7:00.   These new serious join a returning, strong lineup including our game‑day shows and our weekly coaches' shows.   
Joining Mike, Ashley and Rick in the studio and on site at the games will be our stellar, stable of pack announcers including Ronnie Lott, Glenn Parker, Curtis Conway, Yogi Roth, Anthony Herron and Jeremy Bloom to provide analysis and of course their opinion.   Ted Robinson, Kevin Calabro, Roxy Bernstein and JB Long returns our play‑by‑play announcers for football and beyond.   
We're looking forward to the upcoming season and are excited that our fan base grows as we continue with the distribution efforts, continuing the expansion of our distribution remains a top priority, and I'm happy to report starting next month, Comcast is launching the Pac‑12 Network in the midwest further extending our reach into Illinois, Indiana, Michigan and Ohio.   
Come August15th, Google Fiber will add the Pac‑12 Network to its growing platform.   Indeed the Pac‑12 Network will continue to grow and expand our reach and as you've heard and seen, we have ambitious plans for year two for the Pac‑12 Network.   All possible with 12 amazing schools, a conference of champions and a staff that continuously embraces new challenges.   Thanks so much for coming today!   We're looking forward to working with all of you throughout the year.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT