BIG TEN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 3, 2017
Suzy Merchant
Victoria Gaines
Tori Jankoska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Michigan State - 74, Michigan - 64
THE MODERATOR: We're joined by Tori Jankoska, Victoria Gaines and Coach Suzy Merchant.
COACH MERCHANT: I thought it was a well-fought game.  I really liked how our team responded to certain things that Michigan was trying to do early with matchups especially for Coco.  She really took advantage of their decision to put a guard on her, and I thought she did a great job, was super aggressive.
I think we did a better job this game than we did last game of handling their transition defense.  There was a few times in the first half I think we got a little confused, but for the most part we really wanted to make sure we were back and taking out their transition game, and we were happy with that.
And just happy that we won the game, I guess.
Q. Victoria, could you talk about that second quarter when you guys had that good run that just started -- I think you took two charging calls and I think the team took three.
VICTORIA GAINES: Yeah, mainly my defense gets me going for offense.  So I just love playing defense.  And it showed today.  So, yeah.
Q. How important was it to get on top early and stay on top?
COACH MERCHANT: Well, it was kind of back and forth there.  The beginning of the second quarter was what sort of, I guess, separated us a little bit.  And the first quarter was pretty fast paced.  There was a long stretch there where everybody, I think, both teams were dying a little bit and just playing at a really high rate of speed and transition.
So that first quarter was anybody's and then we ended up tying it.  But I thought that second quarter was something where we got some confidence.
They don't have a very deep bench.  They play their five starters almost the entire game and sprinkle in a kid or two.  So we really felt like if they were going to keep that pace we were going to win the game.
We also think we had an advantage inside.  So we just really tried to stay with our game plan as much as we could, really be connected defensively in that first half, especially when they were trying to play north and south and Coco did a great job taking charges.
Q. Victoria, huge game for you.  What were they doing defensively that you were able to take advantage of?
VICTORIA GAINES: I just used my height and size as an advantage, just being aggressive on offense, driving the ball and it just clicked for me.
Q. When Allen hits those jumpers in the second quarter, that's a dynamic they really can't see coming.  How much does that change things for you guys and kind of open things up?
COACH MERCHANT: The one thing our bigs can do that's sort of probably what they do best, to be honest, Jenna and Taya and Kennedy.  And Coco, too.  We have a few sets where we try to run them off a little pin-down or off a cut or whatnot.
And Jenna hits her first one, you're almost sure, you better run a few more.  Then the way they were guarding the post, we felt also if we threw it in there they were doubling early in the game, so we put Jenna at the high post and she was able to knock down a few of those shots and take advantage.  She has one of the best shots of any post player I've ever coached.  Really smooth, really natural.  Gets her feet set.  Doesn't rush it.  She's really a really good shooter for a true center.
Q. Can you talk about that defense again in that second quarter, not only her charges but she blocked the path a couple of times, players driving?  And so did Allen?
COACH MERCHANT: I thought Jenna and her also, even Lexi got in there did some things.  I think when you have guards like -- Gondrezick really likes to play downhill and she doesn't usually change direction when she starts to go.  When she's going as hard as she's going she's not going to cross you over now.
Flaherty is a little different animal because she's got some hesitation and some stopping and going and she can change directions.  But Gondrezick is the one if you can get over there she's going to come right in to you.  And so we really tried to concentrate on that defensively when she put the ball on the floor because she's so powerful to the rim that if we could shut those driving lanes off we'd be in good shape.  And we couldn't do it from the strong side because that's where their shooters were, so we had to come from underneath from our bigs and have a complete rail rotation.
Q. This is about tomorrow's game now.  Maryland, you've never beaten?
COACH MERCHANT: Never beaten.
Q. And it seems like they're here again.  Went to the NCAA Tournament since they've come into the Big Ten.  What do you have to do differently to get a different outcome?
COACH MERCHANT: Well, I mean, a lot.  You know?  I think they're a well-oiled machine.  They're deep.  Athletic, gotta handle their pressure.  The thing with Maryland, I think, and with us is you just can't have stretches.  And two or three minutes, it's like it's a close game.  And in two or three minutes it's 12.  I think you saw that with Minnesota.
So every shot becomes important.  If you want to beat them, you've got to really be strong with the ball.  You've got to be able to make reads.  They're athletic, handle multiple defenses.  They don't foul you, so you've got to be able to score over some size and athleticism.
And defensively I think handling their transition game and keeping them out of the paint.  I mean, it's a challenge for sure.  I told Brenda, I think she has a team that can go to the Final Four now that she's got Slocum at the point.  I think that kid is as good as anybody in the league as a freshman.  And she's got some veteran guys around, and they just play very well together.
And they have depth and size.  So, I don't know, we're just going to enjoy this one for a few more minutes and then not sleep for the next 24 hours.  Maybe their bus won't show up on time.  (Laughter).
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Coach.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT