REIGNWOOD LPGA CLASSIC
September 30, 2014
Galba Zheng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  GALBA ZHENG:   Friends from the media, again this year we are getting together on the eve of this golden October for yet another tournament of Reignwood LPGA Classic.  
    On behalf of the Reignwood Group and our chairman, we would like to offer our warmest welcome to all of you.   
    Last year the 2013 LPGA Reignwood Classic was such a milestone event for our group, Reignwood Group's efforts to contribute to the development of golf in China.   We're here together again to have another great tee off.   
    Reignwood has a tradition of more than ten years of having international events, and we're carrying on this tradition.   We have been dedicated to introducing LPGA to China.   We never stop upgrading the caliber of our tournament.  
    So 2014 Reignwood LPGA Classic will have a bigger purse and prize money.   The total prize money will go up to 12.88 million RMB Yuan, which is 2.1 million U.S. dollars.   That will make our tournament not only the highest awarding LPGA event, women's golf event in China, and also in Asia.   
    At the same time, as you know, the qualifications for the 2016 Rio Olympics has already been played on.   The Reignwood LPGA Classic will be such an important stop for players to compete and gain more qualification points.  
    Also, it will be a great rehearsal for Chinese golfers in preparation for the Olympics.   So we have so much more and so much to expect in this event.   
    We are gathering here in such a special city with a splendid and rich cultural history, and golfers from China and foreign countries are gathering here to not only compete against one another, but also for cultural exchanges.   
    We have organized more than the event itself.   We have organized a lot of off‑course activities so that the players can have an opportunity to know Beijing better, to know Chinese culture and characteristics better.  
    So I believe next week we will have so much to expect and so much wonderful and splendid things to experience.   
    We agree that sports culture is a common language for people from around the world.   As we are dedicated to developing sports culture and also pushing forward for (indiscernible.)   Reignwood Group has developed a business framework based on healthy business and also built on very high modern structure.   
    With our model of east meets west, we always advocate that we should build very healthy lifestyle with the change of producing such a free world.  
    Also, with the ever‑growing golf map around the globe, we hope to build an important platform for dialogs between east and west in terms of politics, economics, and culture.   We would like to be the ambassador in this cause so that there will be smoother dialog and conversation between east and west.   
    2014 happens to be the 30th anniversary of Reignwood.   It's been over the last 30 years our dedication as an overseas Chinese enterprise, we are dedicated to help the world listen to China and also help China hear the world better.  
    It's been a vision and ideal and objective over the 30 years.   Of course, Reignwood LPGA Classic is one of the platforms we're going to help the east and west to run into each other and also for cultural exchange.  
    Also this year, 2014, our global golf strategy is becoming clearer and clearer.   We have recently purchased the Whitworth Golf Club in London, and also the splendid land of tourism and golf resort located in Hawaii.   
    And also, the global map is ever expanded with our fast consumption goods, like red bull making record after record in the market.   
    We also introduced the globally popular (indiscernible) coconut soft drink into China.   We are expanding a new lineup of all around products in China.   
    Based on such robust business growth in the market, our Reignwood group has made it possible for us to present better courses, greater services, and so I have the confidence to believe that our LPGA Classic will be evolved year after year.   
    So may I wish you all players for this tournament to enjoy this week and also to play good, beautiful golf, beautiful memories of our place.  
    Also wish all guests to enjoy watching the tournament and enjoy your week.   
    Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT