U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2013
Brady Watt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  PETE KOWALSKI:   We'd like to welcome Brady Watt, who lost to his good friend Oliver Goss 2‑down in the semifinals of the U.S.Amateur.   Your feelings at this time, if you could just kind of capsulize that for us.   
BRADY WATT:   It's all sinking in.   I've had a great week.   I'm very proud of how far I've got this week.   I'm taking a lot of positives out of my whole U.S. summer.   Like I said, I'm very proud of myself how I handled myself out there under the clutch.   Very pleasing.   
   
 Q.   Is it probably the highlight of your golf career?   You had a great trip to the U.S., and now such a great run at the U.S.Amateur.   Probably go down as something you'll remember for a really long time?   
BRADY WATT:   Yeah, I'll never forget it.   Brad James spoke to me before, and he said, most of the Aussies coming here the first year, most of them don't do very well, and for me to come out here and play a great run of six events and played really well in a lot of them, obviously that's really outstanding, and just really proud of myself.   He said to me, you're not aware of what you've just done.   And that's nice to hear.   
   
 Q.   I know it's probably tough to put a number on, but could you estimate how many rounds of golf you've played against Oliver in your life, and how did this one compare to the rest?  
BRADY WATT:   Oh, we've played a ton, probably 10 I'd say.   
   
 Q.   If you guys are practicing ‑‑  
BRADY WATT:   We've played 20; we play together all the time.   We have a very similar game.   Our game today was really‑‑ if you were out there watching, it was pretty‑‑ some of the shots were unreal.   Just paint the picture and just hit it.   
I think we both bring the best out of ourselves.   I hope all the best for him tomorrow, and I hope he can dig deep enough and get the result he wants.   
   
 Q.   Thousands of rounds together?   
BRADY WATT:   I wouldn't say‑‑ I'd say hundreds at least, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Is it more fun, more relaxing, more stressful to play with someone you know so well, or would you rather be up against somebody you never met before?  
BRADY WATT:   It's still stressful.   It's not like carefree, but I think because we're relaxed around each other we can get the best out of each other.   A lot of key shots, like on 14 I stuffed it in there, lipped it out for eagle, and he holed a 35‑ to 40‑footer on top of me, and that was pretty much the thing all day.   Whatever I did really well, he kind of did a little bit better.   But I'm right there, and I'm really happy with myself.   It doesn't feel like a loss to me because I've had such a great experience in the States, and I take a lot out of it.   
   
 Q.   You've had a lot of games with him over the last couple years here, a lot of really competitive matches.   How has his game evolved over the past couple years and how is he a better golfer now?  
BRADY WATT:   He's always been a serious talent.   He's got a good head on his shoulders, and he's really relaxed.   I think the older he gets, the better he'll be because he's a really nice guy, and people like that deserve the best.   
   
 Q.   How long have you been involved with Golf Australia, and how has that involvement helped the development of your own game?   
BRADY WATT:   I've been a part of it since November of last year, and pretty much they've given me a lot more exposure, so I come to events like this, and they've opened a few doors for me.   It's a bit more fun being in, like I said, the events like this.   They help you out as a person and really evolve your game.   
   
 Q.   Was there a turning point in the match or a point where you felt like momentum really had switched?   
BRADY WATT:   No, not really.   It was kind of tit for tat.   We didn't miss many shots out there, and we were right there.   Probably 14.   I knew I had to hit a good shot.   I had the first shot into the green and hit the perfect shot pretty much, did everything but go in, and then he hit a good shot in and kind of stole a half out of it.   But that's the difference in match play.   
   
 Q.   How was your trip to the Red Sox game last night?  
BRADY WATT:   It was good fun.   That's a pretty intimate stadium, and had a lot of fun with Gossy and T‑Mac and my host family.   It was really fun.   It's just such a cool stadium.   I got a bunch of good photos, yeah.   
PETE KOWALSKI:   Brady, thanks so much for your cooperation all week, and well played.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT