RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 4, 2017
Hana Jang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 7-under through two rounds, how are you liking it so far?
HA NA JANG: I try just be patient, just keep going, keep going, fairway and the greens.  Weather is pretty lucky.  I'm just par, par, par, I just chase like par, par, good shot in there, more focus my ball and make birdie, birdie.  But it's a little miss number on 14, the par 3, but I don't care, just one time.  It's pretty good today.
Q. How are you liking this golf course so far?
HA NA JANG: Golf course, really comfortable, because no out-of-bounds every hole.  It's not much windy today but sometimes very strong wind, it's like hole No. 2 and 16 is really left-to-right into the wind.  That one's really pressure myself on the tee.
And the golf course, it's really good.  Golf course is beautiful.  Golf course is conditions, excellent.  Golf speed, fairway, is pretty good.
Q. You played with Laura the past two days.  What was that experience like?
HA NA JANG: Last year I played with Laura, too, and two years ago, too.  So every year, first and second round, I play with Laura.
She is wonderful player.  She is wonderful player.  I just question for Laura, No. 16, "How many years you been playing golf."
And she say, "Turn pro or just only playing golf?"
I say, "Playing golf."  And she play 39 years.  Then she -- first year, the British is like 38 years ago.  Wonderful, right.  So it's like my age is 25, and then I just like, she's my role model.  I'm looking every hole, I feel like the gallery, every hole, good shot (clapping).  Pretty good, yeah.
Q. Your caddie got a photo with her, too, yesterday.
HA NA JANG: Exactly.  He's like hole No. 12, I think it's hole No. 12, the par 3, Laura was short of the green but she make birdie off the green.  So my caddie is like, "Nice birdie," (clapping) like big smiling.
I'm like, "What are you doing?"  I was like, because after Laura it's my turn, so I've got to go check on line.  But he's looking at Laura.  So I think he like more Laura more than me.  (Laughter).
Q. How are you enjoying being in Scotland in the Home of Golf?
HA NA JANG: Scotland, I got three times the British, I play the British, food is awesome.  But sometimes the weather is so cold.  The weather is windy.  But last year is pretty good, because the golf course, not much windy, no rain.
But I like Scotland, the golf course, because links is open and pretty windy and really fun on the golf course because my driver, 300, it's very easy.  So I love Scotland, the weather, the people really kind.  Golf courses are nice.
Q. Did you have this tournament circled on your calendar; that you were really looking forward to coming and playing against the world's best again?
HA NA JANG: Oh, that one is very -- yeah, exactly.  Because I go back to Korea after México.  It feels like not really calm because more pressure.  I think it's like, Ha Na, you always play good in Korea.  So I was very nervous myself and too much pressure in the media or something and other people.
But when I was confirmed on coming here two, weeks before the British I feel really happy and comfortable, excited, because I get to see my friends, like Danielle, close friends in the LPGA Tour.  So it's pretty good, yeah.
Q. I walked up late so maybe you were asked.  But just how has the move back worked out for you?  How satisfied are you with your decision to move back?
HA NA JANG: Yeah, together with my mom is really happy.  My mom has a big smile right now.  My mom's happy, I'm happy.  Only family is very comfortable, but not playing golf.
Playing golf is like more nervous, uncomfortable, because my thing, only good score, good score, good score.  And the golf course very narrow, out-of-bounds every hole.  Every week is a little pressure.
But I think it's a little change right now.  So really happy right now.
Q. Is your mother here?
HA NA JANG: She's in Korea.
Q. So can you just tell us about -- because we haven't really seen you since you made the decision.  How difficult was that decision to make, or was it an easy one?
HA NA JANG: Yeah, I talked my mom last year after Japan, because she looks way different than two years ago.  Looks like really tired and not really big smiling, because my mom's always smiling.  Other people's like, "Your mom's always smiling, smiling, really strong girl, looks like it."
But I seen her last year, she's not really good.  She's not too much talk to me.  She say, "Hana, I'm okay, I'm okay, you just play in the LPGA."
But I just talk to my uncle.  Uncle say mom going to the hospital and then little help with the doctor and then taking the medicine, too.
I say, "Mom, you want me to go back home, is that okay?" But my mom's always good, but I'm not okay.
After Australia, I talk to my dad.  "Dad, what do you think I go back to Korea?"  My dad is like, not really, so-so, 50/50, because good score after Australia.
And I just talk again my mom.  My mom say, can you try, try, not anymore -- it's like try back home just a little bit please.  So I say, okay, I think about it.
After the Kia Classic, I just like go back to Korea and after México, just told dad, let's go back to home, because I just want to think about my mom.
Q. What was your mom struggling with and how is she now?
HA NA JANG: Emotional.
Q. Oh, it was emotional?
HA NA JANG: Yeah.  Way different every day feeling, sad, happy, angry or something.
Q. How many children in your family?
HA NA JANG: Me and dad and mom, three people.  That's why, yeah.  That's why.  So my mom and dad, age is like not really young, it's like 67, 66.  So I think more, it's like No. 1, it's very important, golf player.  But I think family is more important.
Q. And does she go out and watch you play in Korea?
HA NA JANG: Yeah, every week.
Q. She does?
HA NA JANG: Yeah.
Q. And did she ever get to see you when you were here in the US?  Did she ever come here?
HA NA JANG: She's a little scared of the airplane, long time on the airplane.  It's like she's scared and pressure and like nervous.  She's really shaking the hands.
Q. What's your mom's name again?
HA NA JANG: Youn Sok.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT