UBS HONG KONG OPEN
December 10, 2016
Arjun Atwal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. That's a darned good day, as well, wasn't it.
ARJUN ATWAL: Yeah, playing with David, we carried each other along.  It was fun.  Just a solid day all in all, except for the last hole.
Q. Early conditions were ideal?
ARJUN ATWAL: Yeah, perfect.  Hardly any wind.  A little chilly in the morning but not too bad.  It was absolutely perfect scoring conditions.
Q. And obviously flushing it?
ARJUN ATWAL: I was, yeah, absolutely.  Right from the first hole.
Q. How fun is it when you get into a roll like that, and your playing partner is also getting on a roll like that?  How fun is it?
ARJUN ATWAL: It was awesome because we didn't see any bad shots out of each other.  A couple of missed greens and we both had pretty good short games.  It was fun.  I really enjoyed it today, and David hit it so solid today, it was just fun to play with.
Q. There's some consideration, as well, for the Order of Merit status where you are right now; is that something that's in your mind at all?
ARJUN ATWAL: Not really.  I think about it, then probably won't be able to play.  I know I'm outside the number looking in.  First thing was to make the cut, because my back wasn't all that great the first two days.  Couldn't practice or anything.
You know, if I play solid tomorrow, I think I should be all right.
Q. Do you have any idea, inkling at all, what you need to do, which position?
ARJUN ATWAL: No, no need.  I know I'm close.  Because everybody else keeps telling me.
Q. You are close.
ARJUN ATWAL: That's fine.
Q. The back, how bad was it?
ARJUN ATWAL: Wednesday I played the Pro-Am and it got tight in the morning, and it just kept progressively getting back, and I've already pulled out of two tournaments this year, one on the PGA TOUR and one on The European Tour.  And I knew this was the systems coming up.  I went into Philippa and I wanted to hit balls and she said no.  I just laid off it, and half-swings on Thursday.  I think I hit six greens or something.  Shot even par.  Got everything out of it.
Then yesterday was a little bit better, the back, and then today was a lot better.
Q. So nice steady progress for Sunday?
ARJUN ATWAL: Yeah, I'm looking forward it tomorrow.  I want to shoot a low one tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT