RENO-TAHOE OPEN
August 3, 2012
Arjun Atwal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Bunch of birdies today, nine I think.   That's kind of the name of game in this format, isn't it?  
ARJUN ATWAL:   Yeah.   I don't know how many I had.  
   
 Q.   Think you had nine birdies, bogey, and then the double on 3.   So 14 points, 21 for two days.   You're right there in the mix.   Just maybe talk a little bit about the day.   
ARJUN ATWAL:   Yeah, it was good.   You know, hit it pretty solid yesterday as well just didn't get anything out of it.   
Today just started to make some putts and it was more fun.  
   
 Q.   I hear you.   What happened there on 3?   Obviously in any format you try to avoid the bigger numbers, but...   
ARJUN ATWAL:   Yeah, it was gusting pretty good.   I thought I hit the right club and it laid down and I hit it over the green.   That's the last spot you can think it on that green is over in the rough.  
Chipped it out to the front edge and 3‑putted from there.   So, you know, wasn't really a bad shot, so...  
   
 Q.   I didn't get a chance to look.   Have you played this format much?   Did you play the old International.   
ARJUN ATWAL:   Yes, I did.   Couple times I think.  
   
 Q.   Do you like this format?   Is it a nice break from the normal 72‑hole stroke play feel?  
ARJUN ATWAL:   Definitely.   Once a year if you do this it's not too bad.   I think most guys if you ask them they enjoy it.   So it's fun.   
   
 Q.   Any thoughts going into the weekend?   Like I said you're right there in the mix.   Just keep doing the things you're doing?  
ARJUN ATWAL:   Yeah, just make a lot of birdies and hopefully get a few eagles in there as well.  
   
 Q.   Do you change your mindset at all playing this format, or are you any more aggressive than normal?  
ARJUN ATWAL:   Not really, no.   I haven't really changed anything.   Just been hitting it good.   Even last week I hit it pretty good in Canada.   Just didn't make any putts.   Got to make putts.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT