HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 28, 2011
Arjun Atwal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Last year you used a great round on a Saturday to get yourself back in. Only 67 today, but you've got to be pleased you got yourself back in.   
 ARJUN ATWAL: This 67 is a lot better than whatever I shot last year. It was truly a really tough day today. There's not too many birdies out there.   
 I mean, par's really good on almost every hole, and I'm just lucky to shoot 67.   
  
  Q. You got yourself some chances inside 15 feet and you made 'em.   
 ARJUN ATWAL: It was really nice on the front nine. On the back nine I rolled in some putts and just kept myself in it.   
  
  Q. Made a couple you needed to make. Have you seen this coming? You look like you're on a good run of late.   
 ARJUN ATWAL: A little bit from the final round at TPC. I had one bad hole in the third round. I hit it really good, putted really well there. Then last week at Colonial was pretty solid, finished 16th, so it's getting better.   
  
  Q. There is 50% humidity, 100 degrees. It's probably not as hot as back home, is it? Come on, you'd like it even hotter wouldn't you?   
 ARJUN ATWAL: This is a cold day in Calcutta, come on. This is nothing, seriously. If we had weather like this in the summer, people would be out there in sweaters.   
  
  Q. Well, you're going to be playing late on Sunday. Bring your sweater tomorrow to the first tee.  
 ARJUN ATWAL: Okay.   
  
  Q. Talk about the wind.   
 ARJUN ATWAL: You catch the wrong gust and you could be in serious trouble on this golf course. The greens, they're obviously baked out a little bit, so they've got some speed to them. It's been a really tough test.   
  
  Q. Did the wind "cost" you at all in your shots?   
 ARJUN ATWAL: On Friday, the 8th, which was 17th for me, about a 15-footer on my downstroke, caught a gust and the ball went about 10 feet past the hole.   
  
  Q. What would you share with others about this course today?   
 ARJUN ATWAL: You've got to be really careful. You've got to wait to hit shots and putts. That's the secret right now. Today I had a couple of shots which gusted on me, but it's going to happen with everybody so you've got to accept it.   
  
  Q. Thanks, Arjun.   
 ARJUN ATWAL: Sure.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT