THE HERITAGE
April 21, 2011
Arjun Atwal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. First off, just tell me about your run out there today. 
 ARJUN ATWAL: It was a lot of fun. You know, I just -- obviously the conditions were perfect. There wasn't much wind when we started and it didn't pick up very much at all. I think these are the best greens we've played all year, on any course. And obviously if you get in the fairway here you're going to make birdie.
 I hit a lot of birdies and had a lot of chances. 

 Q. This course suits your game, how important is that to be the leader in the clubhouse?
 ARJUN ATWAL: You know, I don't think it's that important to be the leader out in the first round. It's good to get off to a good start, that's for sure. 
 As far as suiting me, I love it. I've always loved the way it fits my eye. Every hole you've got to shape shots and it makes you really focus and I like that. 

 Q. Were the conditions kind of a key for 6-under today?
 ARJUN ATWAL: Oh, yeah, anytime you can shoot a low score out here, it's going to be when you hit a lot of fairways. There's not much room out there. And you've got to pick the spots in the fairways, according to the pins. 

 Q. Obviously the course that probably gives the least amount of putts per round than any course. Is it because of the greens being so small?
 ARJUN ATWAL: Yeah, it's definitely. The greens are firm. They're small. And you can hit it in the middle of the fairway and still left with a tough shot to hit the green. You've just got to hit it in the correct spots in the fairways and then just go at it, get the putts off those.

 Q. You played at Augusta. How is your game right now?
 ARJUN ATWAL: Well, I struggled the last few weeks. I know it's coming around. I've struggled off the tees, but my irons and my short game has been pretty good. I had a lesson with my coach, Dale Lynch, yesterday, and he gave me a little key that's working.

 Q. What is that?
 ARJUN ATWAL: Just smooth the hands out. We did a drill on the range where I hit it about 60 to 70 percent. And just feel fine with everything else. I've been doing that today. 

 Q. You have a lot of long irons today into the greens today?
 ARJUN ATWAL: No, I hit a lot of 3-woods. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT