WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 19, 2010
Arjun Atwal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MARK STEVENS: Okay. I'd like to welcome Arjun Atwal. Congratulations on your 61 today. If you'll kind of just make some general comments about your round today and we'll take some questions.
 ARJUN ATWAL: Yeah. It was fun. You know, the golf course it was out there. There was no wind. The greens were soft. Ball in hand. 
 All you have to do -- all you have to do is hit fairways, but, you know you had to hit it in the fairway and it was go from there. It was fun, lot of fun today.
 MARK STEVENS: Thank you. Questions?

 Q. I guess you knew going out that the scores were going to be low today. There have been some good scores posted, soft golf course.
 ARJUN ATWAL: Yeah. You know, I saw some of the scores from the morning and even though it was raining on those guys in the morning they were still taking it deep so I knew the golf course was playing pretty easy today.

 Q. When you play in a Monday event just to get in, does it make your week seem different or how does that work?
 ARJUN ATWAL: I don't know. You know, one thing was that, you know, you get used to making a lot of birdies in the Monday qualifier otherwise you won't make it. 
 I kind of continued that today, you know. Played Forest Oaks on Monday and I was lucky that they had it on Forest Oaks because I've played this tournament there and I've played well there before, I finished 6th I think once.
 It was fun. Just continue playing well.

 Q. Can you let us know what your status is? Are you not a member of the Tour this year?
 ARJUN ATWAL: I'm not anymore. I had a medical from last year, I hurt my shoulders and medical ran out in Canada. I was -- I had 8 events this year to make close to 600,000. I made like 350. I missed two out of the -- I played 9 events, I qualified for the U.S. Open as well so I missed the cut at the U.S. Open and Torrey Pines by one this year, and that was it.

 Q. To get your card, do you have to go back to Q-School or win? Are there any other options?
 ARJUN ATWAL: Yeah. I prefer to win (laughter). If I can get in the Top 125. I don't know what the rule is if I don't play my 15 -- if I don't get into 15, if I -- yes. You know, I think if I get in the Top 125 for this year's money list I should be okay for next year.

 Q. You go to The Barclays or how does that work?
 MARK STEVENS: Because he's not a regular member, he's not eligible for The Playoffs.

 Q. Even if he wins.
 MARK STEVENS: Yes. If he won, the next event would be the Fall Series.

 Q. In some way does that kind of take the pressure off that you're not trying to get into the FedExCup play, you're just playing?
 ARJUN ATWAL: No. You know, I don't really -- I don't really think about that anyway coming into this week. I just wanted to play well. You know, I've been playing well but I haven't been able to put four rounds together this year so that's what I'm trying to achieve this week.

 Q. How do you get into tournaments in September?
 ARJUN ATWAL: Monday qualifying, or I can play Nationwide if I wanted. Get my card through there if I finish in the Top 25, I think, on the money list.

 Q. So do you have any druthers at this point?
 ARJUN ATWAL: Well, what I was thinking was I could enter the Monday qualifiers and also commit for the Nationwide events. If I do make a Monday qualifier out here then I could maybe, you know, pull out of the Nationwide event and play on the PGA TOUR because I made around 350,000. The usual number that is around 700,000 to make the 125 and that's a Top-10 or a Top-5, I guess.
 So, it depends. I'll see how it goes.

 Q. Tomorrow, you have a morning tee time. I mean is that good, you just kind of keep it going? Hard to kind of duplicate a 61, I imagine.
 ARJUN ATWAL: Yeah. I'm going to try and keep it going. We'll see what happens.

 Q. Two quick questions. Your last 61 that you can recall?
 ARJUN ATWAL: I shot 60 on the Nationwide Tour when I won in Chattanooga and a couple times on the Asian Tour, long time ago. I don't think I've shot 61 ever.

 Q. The other would be in the Monday morning qualifier, anything dramatic that you did, hole a long putt or chip-in?
 ARJUN ATWAL: I hit 17 greens at Forest Oaks. I didn't putt all that great and shot 5-under.

 Q. So where does today's round rate in the pantheon of great Arjun Atwal performances?
 ARJUN ATWAL: Yeah, it's up there. I didn't really expect a 61 today. I was expecting, you know, just to play well because I've been swinging the club nicely but 61 is pretty special.

 Q. Was there anything specific that you were really happy over anything else?
 ARJUN ATWAL: Well, I got new irons, I put new irons in the bag this week. I never practiced with them. And my first round of golf with them was in the Monday qualifier and I'm really happy the way I'm hitting them so I'm happy with that.

 Q. Why the change?
 ARJUN ATWAL: Just felt like it.
 MARK STEVENS: Anything else?

 Q. When did you get to Greensboro with playing Monday?
 ARJUN ATWAL: Sunday night. I knew it was at Forest Oaks. I didn't need a practice round. I played there plenty of times.

 Q. How many were in the qualifier?
 ARJUN ATWAL: I don't know.
 MARK STEVENS: Okay. Thanks a lot, Arjun. Good luck the rest of the week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT