EMAAR-MGF INDIAN MASTERS
February 9, 2008
Arjun Atwal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   SHENTON GOMEZ:  Arjun, good round today, tell us about it. 
 ARJUN ATWAL:  It because hard again today.  I played decent.  I just made a lot of mistakes out there and I made a double on 7 which really hurt me a lot.  I don't need to make any doubles on a golf course like this.  I'm not going to hit it in the bush. 
 So apart from that, I hit it good.  It was just really tough conditions again. 
 SHENTON GOMEZ:  What's been the highlight for you today? 
 ARJUN ATWAL:  Highlight, just keeping it just under the wind.  There was really nothing -- it was pretty boring actually.  I didn't do anything spectacular, no chip-ins or long putts.  Just greens and making a few putts here and there. 
 SHENTON GOMEZ:  What are your thoughts heading to the final round. 
 ARJUN ATWAL:  I just don't want to be too for back, hopefully three or four back, but we'll see.  I need it make a few more putts if I want to contend tomorrow, so hopefully I can roll them in tomorrow. 

 Q.  ? 
 ARJUN ATWAL:  You know, I haven't been able to read the putts too well, but my caddie does a pretty decent job.  I'm a player that needs to feel the lines and speeds himself, and I haven't been able to do that all week this week.  I just need to figure out for my own self tomorrow how to get it in the hole. 

 Q.  ? 
 ARJUN ATWAL:  It's been okay.  I've struggled so badly last couple of -- year, year and a half, I'm happy to be in contention.  Not that I know of complaints whatsoever about my game. 
 If I can keep putting I myself in contention again and again, I know I'll probably pull through because I've won before and I know how to win.  So it's just good.  I'm happy with the round of 70, 72, nothing disappointing at all. 

 Q.  ? 
 ARJUN ATWAL:  He's a great guy.  I know him from Calcutta.  He finished second to me at the indicate January open the year I won and known him ever since.  He's a great kid and such a good, solid game.  He really played well today.  It was a shame on the last hole that he 3-putted, but apart from that, he hit it solid and made some nice up-and-downs. 
 It was an all-around solid game. 

 Q.  ? 
 ARJUN ATWAL:  It is tough.  The leading score is 7-under I think; it's playing really hard.  And to make it even tougher is the wind.  The wind, it's all over the place, so it's not easy at all. 

 Q.  ? 
 ARJUN ATWAL:  Both.  I pulled it and the wind took it.  It kind of accentuated it and took it left of the green.  I had a 50/50 chance of getting it on the green from there and tried to get cute and ended up paying for it. 
 SHENTON GOMEZ:  Arjun, thank you for coming in.  Good luck tomorrow. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT