WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2012
Arjun Atwal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Arjun, let's start with the golf, 4-under par out there today.   A nice, solid day for scoring.   How do you feel about it?  
ARJUN ATWAL:   Yeah, great.   You know, after a long time I was actually making some putts and, you know, good feeling.  
   
 Q.   You know, it's more fun when the putts go in.  
ARJUN ATWAL:   Yeah.   And these greens, I thought they're going to be a lot tougher to putt on because of the speed.   But the Tour set it up in a way where, you know, it's not crazy fast right now.   So, you know, guys can making putts.  
   
 Q.   How critical was it to keep it below the hole?  
ARJUN ATWAL:   On a few holes.   Like 10, 12, 9, you know, you got to respect those holes.   There's a few where you can two-putt from the top of the hole.  
   
 Q.   Let's talk about the ribbons that you put together and got people involved.   Explain what's going on.  
ARJUN ATWAL:   It's basically to, you know, just show a little respect to the victims of the Sikh Temple shooting in Wisconsin and I felt like I needed to do something and I'm going make donations to the families, you know, and then hopefully, you know, I've asked a few other guys here and I know a few have already come up to me and are showing support.   
I thought --  
  
 Q.   And there's a website involved.  
ARJUN ATWAL:   Yeah.   I don't know exactly what it is but --  
  
 Q.   We have it.  
ARJUN ATWAL:   In fact, I haven't even looked at it yet.   I know I'm going to do it when I get home after this.  
   
 Q.   There's some work to do between now and then.   May not be going straight home from this.   How much do you think about that?  
ARJUN ATWAL:   Well, obviously not that much because I'm so out of it.   You know, I had such a horrible start to the year.   So, again, it's almost like the situation I was in 2010 where really I didn't really think about that and just played golf and, you know, don't worry about it.  
   
 Q.   Playing well, that's what you need to do first.  
ARJUN ATWAL:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Now, it's just doing it.  
ARJUN ATWAL:   Keep going, you know.   Hold Carl back a little.   He's on fire.   It will be fun, though.  
   
 Q.   It will be fun.   Good to see you playing well.  
ARJUN ATWAL:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   I don't know, you probably couldn't see a lot of the players out there, there was a good majority of the players that had the ribbons on showing you support.   
What does that feel like to know all the guys are behind you?  
ARJUN ATWAL:   It's awesome.   I know this Tour is so close and everyone is, you know, like involved with charities and everything.   I knew that, you know, if I had this idea, the guys to wear the ribbons.   It's awesome.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT