NCAA WOMEN'S FINAL FOUR
April 1, 2000
Svetlana Abrosimova
Geno Auriemma
Sue Bird
Swin Cash
Shea Ralph
Kelly Schumacher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







COACH GENO AURIEMMA: It's a beautiful day in Philadelphia. It's great to be here. It
was a long night last night, but everybody feels pretty good today. We're getting ready
for work out today. You know, we're looking forward to tomorrow. The two best teams in the
country are playing and it's the last game of the year and I think every kid, every
coach's dream is to make sure you're playing in the last game of the year. You don't ever
want to be at home watching somebody else play. That's the hardest thing when you're
playing, and you can't play. So we're playing the last day against the last team that's
left besides ourselves, and you can't get any better than that. 

Q. Could you talk about this game being not necessarily in this city but in a city this
size and a building of this ilk, just being on this stage, the fact that you've got the
numbers 1, number 2 and happened to fall in a place -- in an environment like this? 

COACH GENO AURIEMMA: You know, the game has been looking for events that kind of define
the game, I think in '95, that was one of the events that kind of put a stamp on the game,
and now here we are, you know, five years later that's another one. I think it's just
another one of those events that come along at the right place, the right time, the right
teams; that, you know, you're going to look back and you say that was an event that you
look back and move the game forward. I think after tomorrow night the game will be
changed, because of where it is and who is playing and the kind of game that it's going to
be. 

Q. Shea, going on with what Coach just said, do you have a sense of like the history or
do you have a sense of what is happening here, the event, how big it is and that it might
be the biggest, the most-watched women's basketball game in history? Do you guys have a
sense of that? 

SHEA RALPH: I don't know, you know, it's hard to say because we're on the inside
looking out. We know how far women's basketball has come and we've met a lot of the people
who have built it this way, and the reason that it is the way it is now for us is because
of them and I think for us, that's been special. I know for myself, I've met people that
my whole life, I've only heard about. It's almost been surreal. But, you know, we
understand why we're here, and we understand that at this point, this is the biggest, you
know, for us, but we also know we've worked hard to be here and we deserve it. So I think
going into tomorrow night's game we're just going to try to stay within ourselves and
understand what we need to get done, and have a good time.

Q. Could you please talk about what Sue brings to the team, and could you also discuss
the cosmic significance of the fact this the first names of the two coaches in the finals
are also the names of the two most famous cheese steak restaurants in Philadelphia? 

COACH GENO AURIEMMA: Yeah, you been down there recently? Pat's is old beat up and
dilapidated; Geno's is bigger -- you know I noticed that when I was over there. Not that
it means anything, don't get me wrong. (Laughter) You know, it's just things that come up.
It's just one of those things. I'd rather talk about Sue Bird, though. Hard to put into
words, really what the kid does. But, you know, she plays a position that gets a lot of
attention. It's like playing quarterback in football; she has the ball in her hands a lot.
And she has got a pretty good group like these guys up here that she's running with, but
she makes it all work, and hard to find a pointguard that has her mindset, her
decision-making ability, and you have to guard her. She sees the game the way coaches see
the game. For a young player, she's surprised me a lot of times for how -- so composed she
is. 

Q. Kind of a loaded question, but can you talk a little bit about what it's like or
what it was like to grow up in Russia, what the basketball was like there, how you got
started in that and how you ended upcoming to Connecticut? 

SVETLANA ABROSIMOVA: Well, it's a long story. (Smiling). Well, basketball is not that
popular in Russia. And even when I talk to my parents, it's hard to explain what it's all
about here. It's a cultural thing here, so it's really hard to compare. But I started to
playing basketball when I was 7, so that's pretty much what I did all my life. 

Q. What's the basketball like there? 

COACH GENO AURIEMMA: Like what do you mean? 

Q. Do a lot of people play? Is it popular?

COACH GENO AURIEMMA: No, it's not popular at all. I remember my high school
championship game, it was like 150 people and we thought it was the greatest crowd ever,
so when I got here I was really surprised, because we have the greatest fans in the
country, we have 10,000 people at each game so for me it was a different story. 

Q. How did you end up choosing Connecticut? 

COACH GENO AURIEMMA: Well, UCONN was the one school who recruited me; so I got lucky. I
didn't have -- you know, I didn't visit them before I got here, so, you know. 

Q. Geno, can you just talk about the composure that Johnson has shown because Tennessee
has said that they are going to guard Sue Bird full court, force somebody else to make
plays but Johnson seemed to come up big to you?

COACH GENO AURIEMMA: Yeah, she's played really well in the tournament. She started out
the season great and had a little bit of a lull like most kids do in their freshman year.
But if you saw her play in high school, she always plays well in big games. She started
off a little tentatively yesterday. I think when you're a Young kid, this kind of a game
gets into your head a little bit. But I thought she played great in the second half. Yeah,
I'm sure Tennessee is going to guard Sue Bird full court and I'm sure what they are going
to do what they always do, hold her and grab her and push her around and do all the stuff
they always do, but we're ready for it.

Q. Could you talk about what it's like to play with Svetlana and what does she bring to
the table for your team? 

KELLY SCHUMACHER: She's a great player. She's real competitive, and that helps us out
in a lot of situations. You always want competitive people around you. And, you know,
she's very unselfish. I think she passes me the ball more than anybody else on the team
(laughs). But she's just a great all-around player. She's very athletic and for her
height, there's not very many other people in the country that can stop her.
SHEA RALPH: I think that she brings a different style of play to our team. And she's
very, very tough and she's very brave, and she does a lot of things that, you know,
sometimes Coach doesn't like, but depending on whether the ball goes in or not, that makes
up your mind. And she makes tough, tough shots for us. Her and Sue Bird make big shots
when we need big shots to be made. So I think to have Svetlana on our team, I'd much
rather be playing with her, than against her, and she's taught me a lot about the game of
basketball and she's taught me a lot about life.

Q. Now that you've kind of heard what Tennessee is going to try to do, is that what you
figured and how will you handle that? 

SUE BIRD: Yeah, I think we're going to expect them to play the same kind of defense
they did the first two times we played them. We know they are a really aggressive team
just by watching it. I think we're going to handle it the same way we've approached every
other game, approach it the same and work on our game plan.

Q. Sue, talking to Ace Clement, I guess you played against her in high school, and it's
probably expected that she'll be the one chasing you around. Can you talk a little bit
about what you remember playing against her in high school and what you expect her to be
like? 

SUE BIRD: In high school? Wow, that was a long time ago. Actually -- it was my junior
year. She was -- I mean, she was obviously the go-to player on her high school team. I
think she has different roles as far as high school and college goes. I remember her, she
must have had like 40 against us. I remember her scoring a lot of points against her. I
think she scored her 3,000th point against us, lucky us. She plays an -- she's an
intricate part of that team. I expect her to knock down the open shots when she has it
open, just like she did yesterday. So I think we're going to try to eliminate that as much
as possible.

Q. How close is Svet to being the player that you want her to be and how far has your
relationship come? 

COACH GENO AURIEMMA: How far has our relationship come? Well, our relationship was the
best when she was in Russia and I talked to her on the phone. (Laughter). Everybody is
making too much of a big deal out of this. This is no different than the relationship I've
had with every one of my really good players. I don't like any of them, because they are
never as good as I think they can be; so we're always arguing about how to did things
better how to things differently how to improve on certain things. Then after they
graduate, I tell everybody, that was the best player I ever coached, but while they are
playing for me, it's always the same. There's always something that you can pick out that
you have to get on them about. And how far has Svet come? She's not there yet. She knows
it. But she never will be, either. Nobody ever is. But from where she started when she was
a freshman to where she is now I think she's learn a lot about the game, learned what she
can do, what she can't do. She's improved in so many areas as a player, but I think she
will be the first to tell you she's not anywhere near where she's going to be four or five
years, down the road. Whoever coaches her after Connecticut is going to be really, really
fortunate. 

Q. Shea, do you remember watching the '95 UCONN/Tennessee game at Gampel, and if you
do, how much did that game have to do with pointing you in the direction to UCONN or
Tennessee, and for the other girls, do you remember watching that game and how much of an
impact that did have on your future? 

SHEA RALPH: I do remember watching the game, but it's kind of depressing, because I
realize when I look back on stuff like that, I'm having a tougher time remembering because
I'm getting older. But that was a long time ago for me. But I do remember a little bit of
it, and especially remembering the celebration and watching that, reading about it in the
newspaper, and I remember -- I do remember watching Rebecca Lobo and Jennifer Rizzotti and
admiring how she played. But as far as how that influenced my decision, I think, you know,
obviously seeing that Connecticut was successful and that they had a powerhouse program
and, you know, going there, you'd have an ability to do great things, that definitely
steers you in the right direction. But when I talked to Coach and the coaching staff and I
met the place, I think that was more of what helped me make the decision to come to
Connecticut. You know, basketball is one thing but coming up here and meeting wonderful
people, you know, just being this far away from home and still having what you call a
family is important, too. So having all that in one is just -- you can't really put it
into words. It's very special.

Q. It seems like the entire tournament has been dominated by great guard play. Why is
that and who have been the guards that you've seen that have impressed you the most? 

COACH GENO AURIEMMA: Well, most tournaments, most NCAA Tournaments are dominated by
guard play, I think. They have the ball in their hands all the time. They control the
tempo of the game. They get the ball to the right people at the right time. They make the
right decisions. Without really, really good guard play, it's hard to move on in the
tournament. You know, I think that the teams that go far are the teams that have the best
guards and it doesn't have to be like a pure pointguard or anything like that, but we
happen to have a real good one, and we have two real good ones. Tennessee has got good
guard play. I thought the pointguard from LSU was the fastest girl we've ever had to
guard, I think, Ferdinand. I think at this point, you know, it's hard to, you know, you
look at the four teams that got here, all of them have excellent pointguards. 

Q. In games where two teams know each other, does it come down to execution, who
performs the best tomorrow night, or is there some other intangible that may decide
tomorrow's contest? 

SHEA RALPH: Yeah, I think, you know, we've seen each other twice. We've played against
each other twice this year, and, you know, Coach was saying, you know we have a million
tapes of them and they have a million tapes of us. You can scout all you want, but I think
when it comes down to the game tomorrow night, I think it's going to be more about
execution, but probably more about who wants it the most and who is willing to work the
hardest to get it and who is the best prepared. So it's definitely going to come down to
execution, but I think there are intangibles that will help out along the way. 

Q. You mentioned earlier that this game has the potential for a huge impact on the
sport. Some people have drawn some comparisons between the men's '79 game, do you see this
game having that kind of impact on women's college basketball or is that something that
you can't necessarily foresee, just something that -- something that just sort of happens?


COACH GENO AURIEMMA: I think there's some truth to that; that it's something that just
happens. I don't think you can prepare for it. You know, that '79 game was more about
Magic Johnson and Larry Bird, and Indiana was kind of an unknown. It's a little different.
You know, this is kind of like, you know, Houston and UCLA at the Astrodome, but for the
National Championship. You know it still took a long time after that game for it to get to
where it is today, the college game. So what's going to happen after tomorrow, I don't
know. If tomorrow is a lousy game, maybe nothing. But my guess is if tomorrow is a great
game there will be some effects. How much? Maybe we don't know for a couple years. But
definitely there will be some kids watching tomorrow night, there will be people watching
that maybe had not turned on a game before just because they are going to get caught up in
all the hype and they might see something tomorrow that might spur them to do something
down the road. That we won't know until later.

Q. Can you talk about the play of Kara Lawson, and also compare Kara to Sue and what
you think you'll see in that matchup tomorrow night? 

COACH GENO AURIEMMA: Kara Lawson benches a lot more than Sue Bird. I know that. I read
in the paper what the numbers were; so I hope it doesn't come down to that. But Kara
Lawson, she's not a freshman now, I don't think. I think we should check her birth
certificate. She doesn't play like a freshman. She's got tremendous poise. She's got a lot
of guts for a freshman, too. She's not afraid. She's competitive, she's tough. You know,
that's one reason why I think she's been so successful as a freshman and one reason why
that team has been able to overcome, you know, the loss of a really good pointguard last
year. She's exactly what they needed, I think. But she's like Sue. She's not really a
pointguard, you know. Sue's the same way. They are not really pointguards. Like Helen
Darling is a pointguard. Sue and Kara Lawson are not really pointguards. They are just
guards. They just play the game the way old-fashioned guards used to play. They pass, they
shoot, they do all kinds of things. It's not what your noveau pointguard does, just comes
down and runs the offense. 

Q. Can you talk about how the rivalry with Tennessee has evolved since then, up to this
point? 

COACH GENO AURIEMMA: You know, I've said this before, it's one of those things that
happened quickly. Wasn't orchestrated by anyone. It just evolved because of the great
games that we've had with them. Again, you know, every time we've played them, we've
played them ten times. I think in eight, maybe nine of those ten times, one of the teams
was No. 1. In a lot of those games, it was huge NCAA Tournament implications. Now we're
playing them twice, the second time for the National Championship. This is the fourth time
we've played them in the Final Four -- third time, I believe. Third time we have played
them in the Final Four. So a lot has happened in a short period of time. You know, the
country is always looking for that kind of stuff. Mohammed Ali and Joe Frazier, Cowboys
and the 49ers, Yankees and Dodgers. You're always looking for that. It makes, you know, it
makes for great stories, keeps everybody entertained. Makes coaches famous, write books,
go on TV, do all kinds of stuff. 

Q. Sue, Kara said that you all played each other when you were in the sixth grade. Can
you talk about your relationship and do you remember playing against her back when you
were younger? 

SUE BIRD: Actually I do. I think I started playing against her -- I must have been in
sixth grade and she was in 5th. She had pigtails; still had the braids going but had
pigtails and we called her that. We kept in touch through mail, things like that. But I
saw her every summer, played against her every summer until she started playing in her own
age group. She also played soccer. I know she was always competitive in that sport. I saw
her in one tournament which was pretty random. It was fun to see her. I know her a long
time and I've seen her to where she's gotten to now. Our fathers are friends, talk,
communicate once in awhile. I don't know, I think it will be interesting to play against
her for the third time this year.

Q. Can you talk about what your expectations were when you decided to play Tennessee
twice in a season, and was this kind of what the ultimate would be, meeting in a final? 

COACH GENO AURIEMMA: Well, you don't know that going in. I had a lot of reservations
when I was first approached by about it a few years ago, because I didn't think it was --
I didn't think it was in our best interests at the time. I was thinking primarily about
Connecticut at the time. You know, I thought why do we need to do this. We're doing it
once, we don't need another TV game. We do TV enough. Why put ourselves in that situation
when that limits then another team that you can schedule that's a Top-10 team and you can
have more variety in your schedule. And they kept hounding me and hounding me and the TV
people and everybody else, and then I started thinking about the big picture a little bit
more, about there's not enough of these games during the regular season. There are not
enough games that, you know, you can showcase the best of what women's basketball has to
offer. And I asked Pat about it and I said what do you think, and I think she probably
needed some time to think about it, too, and we both came to the same conclusion; that as
much as it might hurt us personally, you know if one of us goes 0-2, you could be 38-1
lose to Tennessee ten twice, 38-2, you're dead. So as much as we knew the potential
pitfalls I think the benefits far outweigh any negatives and I'm glad we did it and I'm
glad we're going to do it again next year. And where it goes beyond that, I don't know.
Beyond. But I'm glad we did it. But there surely wasn't like, wouldn't it be great if we
play three times each year because after a while, that will get old, too, the rest of the
country will go "we hate both you guys." Now half the country likes us, the
other half likes Tennessee. Three more years of this and, you know, that won't be anybody
at the games. 

Q. So much is made of the ry rivalry between Tennessee and UCONN. As someone who didn't
grow up with it, didn't see the '95 game, can you appreciate the depth of it and
appreciate how quickly it's become the No. 1 rivalry in the sport? 

SVETLANA ABROSIMOVA: Well, I remember my freshman year Coach talked to me about it,
next game we were supposed to play against Tennessee and he asked me do you even know
about them and I was like, no, I've never heard about them. So it was hard for me to
appreciate all of the stuff that was going on around that gait. But I watched the '95
tape. Like right now I know what is going on; that it is a great tradition. And it just --
it's hard to tell, because, you know, like I haven't -- well, I grew up in Russia so I
don't really know exactly like about Tennessee, how Tennessee how they became a great
team. I didn't know a lot about UCONN, how they became a great team. But when I actually
play here I know we have to beat Tennessee and I know like because I met Rebecca,
Jennifer, and I just respect those players, and I want to do as best as I can to beat
Tennessee.

Q. For Swin, I know you were recruited pretty hard by Connecticut and Tennessee, can
you talk about the difference in the programs and why you finally chose Connecticut? 

SWIN CASH: They came down to my final two, and it was a really hard decision. But, you
know, for both programs, they both were great programs had great players, their coaches
were both great. But coming to Connecticut, I came in with a great freshman class. I just
felt really comfortable there. I felt like you know this would benefit me down the road,
the long run and just like talking to Coach, I knew that he would develop me into the type
of player that I wanted to be.

Q. Swin and Sue, could you characterize the personal rivalry with Tennessee? How do you
deal with the players? Is it intense? Is it indifferent? How do you guys view the
Volunteers? 

SWIN CASH: I view this rivalry as a class act, because I mean, off the court, I know a
lot of the girls just from recruiting, playing against them and so does Sue. But just to
be off the court, you can have a conversation, but you know once you lace up the
shoestrings and you're on the court it's just strictly business. And I know that just
being off the court and showing that type of relationship where you're able to sit down
and talk to them and laugh and joke like that, that shows a lot of character for both
programs.
SUE BIRD: I agree. 

Q. Is this another opportunity for women's sports breakthrough tomorrow night like
there was last summer with soccer? 

SHEA RALPH: I hope so. I think, you know -- I think that women's soccer tournament, the
team, that whole World Cup thing was just wonderful for women in general and women in
sports. And I think that they really got the ball rolling, especially for soccer, because
soccer really isn't, I don't know, hasn't really been that popular of a sport in America
and I think that it's just grown tremendously, especially for women. And I know that being
a young girl when we were younger, most of the time you looked up to, you know, men,
especially you know, basketball, you didn't really have a lot of women role models. I mean
if you had psycho parents like I did, then you would go to tournaments and stuff where
women played and you would find somebody to look up to. But I think in general younger
girls have a harder time finding role models, but I think now that women's sports are
growing and we have teams like the women's national team that do tremendous things for
sports and, you know, have confidence in themselves and do wonderful appearances and stuff
like that, I think that's just really made the difference for us.

Q. What's the toughest thing guarding Semeka Randall? 

SVETLANA ABROSIMOVA: She's really tough. She's really competitive. She moves with the
ball all the time. She's a great player. She has a pretty good outside shot. She can, you
know, get inside the lane. She can do a whole bunch of stuff, and just a matter of
concentration. You know, I'm sure if I'm going to play defense against her, my team is
going to help me, too. 

Q. Shea was talking about the role models and I know one of yours was Jennifer Azzi.
Could you just talk about that a little bit? 

SUE BIRD: It started out -- I'm trying to think of when I first had seen her play.
Actually, when I was being recruited by Vanderbilt, funny enough, the assistant coach was
Julie Planke (ph) and she was originally at Stanford. And a lot of the times when we were
talking on the phone she would tell me how much I reminded her of Jennifer and things like
that, and that's when I really started taking note of things she did. I watched her play
when she was on the Olympic team. And then when I came to Connecticut, I kept hearing
comparisons, not really -- kind of the dark ponytail, things like that. But I just like
the way she played and she definitely accomplished a lot at Stanford. She won a couple of
National Championships and things like that, and I just admire her for it.

Q. Pat talked about some of the players that she recruited, like Paige that she really
wanted to come to Tennessee that wound up going to Connecticut but I'm just wondering if
that's a two-way street any players that you recruited that wound up going to Tennessee,
and is that part of also whatever rivalry there is between the two schools that manifests
itself at all in the recruiting process? 

COACH GENO AURIEMMA: Sometimes. Not as much as you would think, believe it or not. You
know they didn't recruit Sue, for instance. We didn't recruit Kara Lawson. We didn't
recruit Tamika. We tried to -- they didn't recruit Asjha from what I understand, either.
Obviously, we tried to recruit Kristen Clement, but a lot of the kids that went to school
there. The only one that ever visited our campus was Semeka Randall. So it's not really
that heavy and intense of a recruiting battle. And I think of the ones that we have on our
team, Swin and Paige are the only two that actually visited Tennessee and chose to come to
Connecticut. I think kids usually pick sides pretty early in that situation. You're either
on this side and that side, and very rarely is there any crossover.

Q. You've had a lot of great pointguards over the years, how does Sue Bird compare to
those two, especially considering that she didn't have much of a freshman year and that
she's only a sophomore? 

COACH GENO AURIEMMA: Yeah, I kind of look at her as a freshman. I view her as this
being her first -- her first year, really playing college basketball. So I would have to
say that based on that, she's probably been the most productive of all the pointguards
we've ever had as a freshman. But she also has the best supporting cast of any freshman
pointguard ever to come to Connecticut. She's different, too, than Rita Williams and
different than Jennifer Rizzotti. Those two had their own unique styles, and Sue does it a
different way, but it's effective. She's different, but it's effective. 

Q. You first said up there that this game could possibly change women's basketball.
Could you elaborate a little bit on that? What is there that could change? Is it just
because the style of play is so exciting; what do you expect will happen? 

COACH GENO AURIEMMA: I think people would watch the game, maybe that have one set of
impressions, one bias towards the game and, say, here is what I think women's basketball
is like and maybe by tuning into the game tomorrow night they will see something that will
spur a different thought. Like, "Wow, I didn't know this is what it was like."
Maybe people will stop comparing it to the men's game and be able to see it on it's own,
for its own value. Those people that love the game already do that but I think we can
attract a whole bunch of new fans tomorrow night if it's a great game, well played, that
have a misconceived the idea of what women's basketball is. And every time we get a chance
to do that I think we're helping the game grow.

Q. Last three games Oklahoma, LSU Penn State have scored easier against you than, you
know, most teams we've seen all year. Is that a function of that they are three really
good teams or are you concerned about that and what can you do to fix it in the next 24
hours? 

COACH GENO AURIEMMA: Well, there's two sides to that question. The last three games
we've scored a lot of points; so I think when we try to keep the score down, then it works
both ways. You know, we're going to score 70, 75; they are going to score less. When we're
trying to put up 100, they are going to score more. And also the teams that you're playing
at this time of the year are a lot better than the teams you were playing two weeks ago or
three weeks ago, better offensively. That's how they got to this point. So it's not
something that I'm overly concerned with, but at the same time, we've played placed so
much emphasis on our offense for this tournament because I didn't want to come in
defensive. I didn't want to come in with a bunker mentality, surround the wagons, circle
the wagons, let's not let anybody squat on us and try to win the game 50-48. I came in
with the mentality we're trying to put up 100 every night; let's roll the dice and here we
go. If we lose one 100-98 tomorrow, though, I'm going to be really upset.

Q. Given the intensity and fire Semeka Randall plays with, is she a player you like and
how has she evolved since you've recruited her out of high school? 

COACH GENO AURIEMMA: I love her intensity, and obviously, I wanted to recruit her. And
the energy that she brings to the floor, the passion that she plays with, is what you want
every kid to play like. I could probably do without the World Cup dive that she took
yesterday when she acted like she got fouled, but that probably also means that she's
gotten smarter, too, knows how to draw fouls. But very few kids in the country -- I think
they have got two kids that play the game of basketball as hard as I would wand kids to
play and that's Semeka Randall and Tamika Catchings. If you were telling me I'm going to
coach players the rest of my career that would play that hard, I tell you, I'd be happy
coaching for a long, long time.

Q. Two weeks ago Pat Summitt got an invitation to speak to the men's team. I wonder if
you ever got that invitation what would your message be to a men's team, and secondly, do
you think it's unrealistic to believe that a woman, even of Pat's stature could get the
respect of a men's program so that she could coach it successfully? 

COACH GENO AURIEMMA: I don't envision me getting an invitation to speak to anybody
about anything, other than, you know speaking to my team about what my team is going to
do. As far as Pat, and I'll just use her, I wouldn't say women in general, but as far as
Pat getting the respect of a men's team, I don't think that would be difficult at all. I
follow the stock market a little bit, and I remember Hewlett-Packard has a woman CEO,
Italian woman, I think, too, and their stock went up about a zillion dollars I think
recently. I think women are going to be respected for the job they do. And if they are not
any good, they are not going to be respected; and if they are really good they are going
to be respected. And she is really good. And I would think she would earn the respect of
anyone she coached, male female, doesn't matter. She's just a great coach. Wouldn't be
difficult. Now, there's a lot of guys that you coach that don't respect anybody; so she
would have the same problems any guy has coaching.

Q. I think last night or earlier this morning, you said that Asjha is your brightest
player. Could you elaborate on that specifically? Why do you say that? 

COACH GENO AURIEMMA: Well, she's the smartest. She's really bright. In school, she's --
it comes easy to her, it's effortless. She sees things, she picks things up quickly. She's
got a great mind. You know, she's just very bright. You know, one of those kids that is
just very intuitive, can see things and figures things out quickly. Me, I like dumb
players. I like guys that don't think. They just catch it, and go where's the basket. And
Asjha is too smart for her own good, and when she stops thinking during the game she plays
great. When she starts to think too much, because her mind takes over, then she gets kind
of tentative. But she is who she is, and every game that she's played in the last two
years, she sees herself, you know, getting more instinctive and less cerebral. This is the
kind of game where if you think too much, you can't play. If you don't think at all, you
can't play. You've got to be somewhere in that in-between zone and more and more, she's
getting into that.

Q. How did you first hear about Svetlana, and what did she bring to the table coming
out of Russia and what has she learned since she's been playing for you?

COACH GENO AURIEMMA: I had a friend of mine -- he was an AU coach and he happened to
have come here from Russia to go the University of South Carolina. And he coached AU and
knew a lot of the kids from over there. He had sent me to go see a couple other kids, and
I didn't think that they would be what we were looking for, and then he told me about Svet
and one thing led to another. I called her up, talked to her, sent her some stuff; she
read it. We talked some more, and, you know, she came to Connecticut. What has she
learned? I don't know, Svet knows a lot already. She's smart, and she's a hard-working
kid. She has a passion for the game. She loves basketball. She thinks the game. I think
what she has learned is how to play with other good players, which is going to help her
down the road. All her life, she's been the go-to player. Everything is done for her,
everything is run for her, every play is run for her. Svet is kind of spoiled. She was the
chosen one. She went in and somebody picked her out and said we're going to develop you
into a great player. And now she's learning how to play with other really great players,
and that's really hard because you go from doing everything to thinking I'm not important
I won't do anything. We need you to be in middle; we need you to get 25 like Monday. And
sometimes we need you to get 12 but only 14 rebounds. She's starting to figure out
"what I have to do" and "I don't have to be every thing, every
possession." And hopefully that's what we've taught her. 

Q. I hope I'm quoting Pat correctly. She said the only thing that would have been worse
than going 0-2 against you, is 2-0; and 1-1 perfect, and now this is the sugar game. What
would you have preferred playing twice?

COACH GENO AURIEMMA: It does make it interesting, doesn't it. If one of us was 2-0 or
0-2, it probably wouldn't have as much significance. The fact that we played -- she hit it
right on the mark. Both teams come in knowing they can win. Both teams come in knowing
they can lose. You know, you can't plan for these things. They just happen. It's just one
of these things. Two great teams playing in the championship game. When the committee sat
down and picked the bracket, they probably went, "Boy, if we could get a Connecticut
Tennessee final, that would probably be great," and they got one. So everybody is
happy. 

Q. So much has been made out of the '95 game. What about the '96 game where you lost?
On the disappointment scale, I would think that would be one of the bigger ones in your
career? 

COACH GENO AURIEMMA: Yeah, you know, we had a very small margin of error in those
years. In'95 when we played them, we beat Tennessee three straight: Our place, Minneapolis
and their place. And I don't think that's been done, ever. And that's what created the
rivalry. But we were working with a very small margin of error if anybody got hurt,
something happened, we were dead. So when we got to Charlotte, you know, Kara Wolters
fouled out and we just didn't have enough we haven't have anybody left; so when we got to
overtime, we just ran out of gas. And that was one of the best games I've ever been
involved in. I mean, just as -- as good a game as I've ever been a part of. And to be
honest with you, I wasn't that disappointed that day, because we won the National
Championship. The year before, I saw Chamique Holdsclaw, Latina Davis, all those kids, so
when I was standing there, I was answering the question, and I said you know what, it
wasn't our turn. It was time for somebody else to feel what it feels like. And I wasn't
that disappointed to be honest with you. I was more disappointed in other games that I
thought we had squandered our opportunity. I don't think we squandered our opportunity
that year. 

Q. You talked about the noveau pointguard, the one who thinks to shoot first, or at
least one of the first options is that new to the women's game? When did that come about
and what defines it?

COACH GENO AURIEMMA: I don't think it's new to the women's game. I think it's new to
basketball. You know, I think it's new to the way people play today; shoot first and ask
questions later. That's everybody's mentality. It's hard to find kids that think
"team first". And I'm lucky. I've been fortunate to coach pointguards who are
more team-oriented. I mean, Jennifer Rizzotti averaged 11 points a game and was national
Player of the Year her senior year. So I use that as an example all the time. That's rare.
That's rare, because I think people get their satisfaction, their emotional feedback from
their parents or whatever on how many points you score. I'm lucky; I get kids who get
their kicks out of how many games we win.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT