NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 13, 2015
Swin Cash
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Swin, can you just talk a little bit about the environment, being in New York?  SWIN CASH: I mean, it seems like All-Star is on steroids here in New York.  But you kind of expect it.  It's New York City.  It's the Mecca.  It's exciting.  Just the vibe from the NBA and what they've been talking about as far as going forward.  You see it here with the media, you see it out on the streets.  I'm excited to be a part of it.   Q.  What are you expectations for the contest --  SWIN CASH: You know, we're never picked.  We're never favored to win it.  We kind of the underdog.  We're going for the three-peat and then we're going to retire.   Q.  Is that the plan, you're going to retire after the three-peat?  SWIN CASH: That's what 'Nique said?  So I'm going with whatever he says.   Q.  Who would you say carries you guys on your team?  SWIN CASH: Chris always seems to make some clutch shots.  But I've been working on that half-court shot.  So I have to have his back this year.   'Nique said he may be on the injured reserve with the shoulder, a bit for the long ball.  So yeah.   Q.  You're going to have to carry him.  SWIN CASH: I may have to get ready.   Q.  Defending the important title.  What's your strategy?  SWIN CASH: To win.  You know, just have fun doing it.  I think the last couple of years we just went in with the same -- nobody is picking us to win.  We're not the favorite.  But let's have fun.   Q.  'Nique on Atlanta now --  SWIN CASH: It's been working for us.   Q.  That's good.  One of the big themes of the weekend is just kind of celebrating basketball in New York.  Obviously you played here a lot over the course of your career.  Talk about just coming into The Garden and what it's like.  SWIN CASH: It's interesting.  There's something magical, they always say, about The Garden.  But I love the fact that the NBA is taking this whole approach to just not make it about just The Garden, and have this combination of Brooklyn and MSG.  I think it says a lot about really everybody coming together.  Not only basketball and the celebration of the game, but the community outreach.  Those two pillars together really shows what the NBA is truly about.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT