FBR OPEN
February 1, 2007
Paul Azinger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Tough way to finish up.   
 PAUL AZINGER:  Yeah, that putt looked like it was going in.  I hit a putt on 8 that looked like it was going in, too.  I putted really well today.  I did a lot of -- hit some decent iron shots.  I didn't drive it very good at all.  I have to go -- if you miss the fairways here you're not driving it too straight.  I've still got some work to do.   
  
  Q.  I looked at the leaderboard and you just shot up.   
 PAUL AZINGER:  Yeah, I'm surprised, but that putter can be a great equalizer, and that's what happened today.  I really made a lot of nice putts.  The few putts that I missed were either lipping out or dead on-line short.  Just one of those days.  I hope that lasts for the rest of my career, putt like Hale Irwin.   
  
  Q.  How did the course play today?   
 PAUL AZINGER:  Well, it was windy today when we started out and it was cold.  It got nicer there towards the end.   
 Just to hold your own at the beginning of the round was important, starting on the back nine especially, and then it got a little downwind and you were able to take advantage of holes like -- 14 didn't play that hard, 15 was reachable today and I made 3 there, and then of course you can drive it on 17 green, also.  If you can get those holes, if you can survive going into the wind and you can get those holes downwind, you can shoot a good score.   
  
  Q.  How did your day go?   
 PAUL AZINGER:  Well, I just drove it so bad on the last nine holes today, and I got two really good breaks and was able to make par and made a couple nice putts for birdies.  Just never really -- didn't get in that much trouble, considering I didn't really hit it that straight.  I'd like to hit it a little straighter tomorrow.  Hopefully I will.   
  
  Q.  Where do you want to be by tomorrow?   
 PAUL AZINGER:  Where do I want to be?  I want to make my tee time because I go at 7:40.  That's one of my goals.  Beyond that, I just want to be into it and ready to go.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT