JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 13, 2006
Paul Azinger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  It looks like you're cancelling your ABC plans this weekend.
PAUL AZINGER:  Supposedly whenever I'm cut I've got to go in the booth when I'm done.  Obviously if I play really late, I won't have to go in there.
Q.  4 under the first round, is this what you expected, or are you happy with that?
PAUL AZINGER:  Well, I hit it pretty good today.  I drove it really, really well, only missed two fairways today.  I didn't really make a lot of putts.  I hit several greens, a few greens I was right on the edge.  I think I missed four greens that I putted from inside 15 feet.  I played good today, I really did.  It's been a while.
Q.  Do you see the scores going pretty low this week?
PAUL AZINGER:  Yeah, it's so soft.  It's all going to be dependent on the wind.  It's supposed to get really hot, too, and I believe it's going to take a toll in the end.  To what extent, who knows.
Q.  Does that make these early rounds that much more important?
PAUL AZINGER:  Yeah, it's important.  We all know it's going to get hot, but I honestly think because it's going to get so hot, the golf course is going to stay really wet.  That will keep it alive.
Q.  If you were commentating today, how would you have analyzed your round?
PAUL AZINGER:  Probably    I mean, it could have been better.  I suppose I made one nice putt from off the fringe, but for the most part, I missed four or five putts inside ten feet for birdie.  I don't want to complain because I've never played a round in 25 years on Tour that couldn't have been better.
Q.  Coming into a tournament, is it player first and announcer second?  How do you analyze it?
PAUL AZINGER:  Player first, announcer fourth.  I'm playing full time.  I'm using my top 50 all time money.  I'm trying to keep my card.  But this is one of the few weeks where I agreed to pull double duty.  Last year I didn't do it at all, but we didn't know that ABC wasn't going to stay on and continue to cover golf.  Last year I either played the tournament or broadcast the tournament, I didn't do both.  And this year I've done both a couple times.  I'd rather just play and not do it, but I'm obligated so I'll be happy to do it.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT