WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 23, 2002
Paul Azinger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.  What happened on 17? 
PAUL AZINGER:   He hit it about, probably nine or ten feet and I hit it about eight or nine feet, something like that.  He was straight up the hill and missed it.  And I hit kind of a big right-to-left with about a foot of break and made it to end the match. 
We both played well.  He was 3-under par.  I was 5-under par.  It was kind of like, I think the course is getting harder to score on, and birdies I think are more valuable than they were the first day.  The greens held beautifully. 
Today I hit beautiful wedge shots today  -- I was playing for about six yards of bounce, and I was getting ten yards of bounce and having 16-footers instead of 12-footers and, you know, it just played harder. 

Q.  You're going to play McCarron next.  Talk about that.
PAUL AZINGER:   Well, I've been encouraging Scotty a little bit this week.  Yeah, it's going to stop.  It's stopping, right.  (Laughs).
But I like him and we're good buds.  But it's down to the nitty-gritty now and we are both going to grind it out and play hard.

Q.  How much does this mean to you? 
PAUL AZINGER:   Well, I'm more excited about how I'm hitting it for the first time for so long.  I hate to complain  -- I've made 21 straight cuts or something, and I've really only missed a couple of cuts since September of '99. 
But I can be perfectly honest with you, I haven't really hit it solid just a few times.  I've hit it okay, but this is like a different level for me of ball-striking than it has been for a long time, and so I'm really excited about that.  I hope this is something that lasts and I'm glad that it's allowing me to advance this week. 
I've been lucky, a couple of times I might have played the right guy when I didn't make a lot of birdies and didn't get beat.
But my ball-striking has improved so much that I'm just as encouraged about that as I am about making it this far.

Q.  The body language on 15 over that putt, did you think it was  --?
PAUL AZINGER:   Thanks.  My read was straight.  The first inkling walking up was it would go to the right, but when I started studying the putt, I thought "This putt is straight."  And my caddy, he said it was going to go right.  I said, well, you know, I think he's wrong.  I think it's straight.  As soon as I hit it, is it started to break a little bit to the right, but it went back to the left, so actually I was probably more right than he was.





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT