UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 25, 2010
Dayne Crist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q. Dayne, how is the team feeling?
 DAYNE CRIST: Obviously right now we're very upset with where we're at. It's about having short memories in this game, having tough, thick skin and a short memory. That's how we have to handle ourselves. 
 We'll appreciate the 24-hour rule, but we got to come back ready to work.

 Q. What positives do you take out of it? 
 DAYNE CRIST: As a player, I mean, you're obviously upset. You want to win right now. That's kind of what it comes down to. We just got to do a great job of just critiquing the film, watching the film, figuring out how individually we can get better on offense.

 Q. Why was it more difficult for you to find the guys?
 DAYNE CRIST: They were dropping a lot of guys. They had eight guys in coverage a whole bunch. You don't want to sit and make excuses, but tip your hat to Stanford. They had some good calls out there. We just got to find answers and do a better job in practice finding those answers.

 Q. Did you expect that kind of coverage?
 DAYNE CRIST: No. They hadn't shown it. They hadn't shown it really at all in the film that we had. 
 Again, you can't sit back and point your finger at that. You got to go into the game ready for anything. We got to do a better job of adjusting throughout the game and adapting to what they're throwing at us. 

 Q. (Question about the two plays that coach said the game turned on.) 
 DAYNE CRIST: Those plays are huge. You can't sit and call two plays are the reason we lost the way we did. Guys got to do a better job of executing and having a better sense of urgency in those situations.
 Again, I can only speak for the offense. I can't talk about the defensive side of the ball. They were great. They were the reason we had a chance to win. The offense, we need to do a better job of putting this on our back and start this thing rolling again. 

 Q. They got some pressure on you early. Did they do a good job of mixing it up?
 DAYNE CRIST: Yeah, they did. Stanford did a great job. Again, we need to do a better job or teams are just going to do that every game.

 Q. What were some of the protection problems? 
 DAYNE CRIST: We have to look at it on film. Right now we just didn't do a good job of just adjusting, myself included, adjusting to what they were doing throughout the game. 
 We'll have to review that on film. I don't know right now.

 Q. As the leader of the team, how do you keep these guys together?
 DAYNE CRIST: Actually, it's not as hard as it seems because of the guys we have in the locker room. We have guys that want to win, guys that know we can win, and we have a potential to win the rest of the games on our schedule. There's really that belief in the locker room. It goes all the way through. 
 There's no guys in question right now of where we're going. That's a great feeling. Again, have to step up and be a leader of the offense and get us going in practice more than anything else.

 Q. Did they give special attention to Kyle today?
 DAYNE CRIST: Yeah, they did. But, again, it's one of those situations where you have talented play-makers on the field, they're always going to try to find ways to take him out of the game. They did a good job of that. Again, we've got to find answers for that. I'll take responsibility for that one. 

 Q. Is it a mental hurdle to get things to click early on?
 DAYNE CRIST: You have to have a greater sense of urgency, even if you just got to grind it out down the field. You have to have a greater sense of urgency on third down, greater sense of urgency protecting the ball, taking what they give you. This team is experienced in that right now, but it's something that I think will be a great tool for us as we move forward in the future.

 Q. What did you think you could do against the Stanford defense?
 DAYNE CRIST: We were able to throw the ball for like 300 yards. We were able to move the ball. We were able to throw the ball. It was just capitalizing in the areas, especially in third down. Got to keep chains moving. 
 For as fast as we go, if you're getting off the field three-and-out, not really effective. We have to do a better job of staying on the field and just scoring points.

 Q. Talk about John Goodman. 
 DAYNE CRIST: He's practicing better. Showing up in practice. He's continually working. Just making plays in practice. I mean, that's the quickest way to get on the field.

 Q. Armando Allen, a work in progress? 
 DAYNE CRIST: We'll have to analyze that on film. You can always take some good, some bad. You're never happy where you're at whether you're beating a team by 30 or losing by 30. That's just the way it goes. 
 We'll analyze it on film. Just after a game, we have a lot of stuff to worry about and review. I think we'll be able to take some things from this game, but there are some things that we didn't do so well.

 Q. Coach Kelly talked about how it's the evolution of the quarterback, we're seeing the process before our eyes. How is that for you?
 DAYNE CRIST: It's tough initially. He and I had multiple conversations about that. The biggest thing is just trying to get better each week, not being complacent with a little progress, just going and wanting to progress more and more and more until this is as good as it can be. 
 You're never going to see a cease on my end of trying to progress, trying to get better. That's my job as the quarterback at Notre Dame, is to try to get better each week. That's something I'll try to continue to do.

 Q. Andrew sought you out after the game. What did he say?
 DAYNE CRIST: Just said, Keep your head up, play well, keep in touch. We talked about the game a little bit. I told him he played great, that we'd be in touch. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT