UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 16, 2010
Dayne Crist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


   DAYNE CRIST: I thought the first half was very poor on our ends. There's no excuse for that. I'll take the majority of that, because it falls on me. I was not happy how I played. We talked at half time, made some adjustments and knew that I had to come out and play better. I think as a whole our offense played a lot better in the second half, definitely.   
  
  Q. Was it just a lack of execution?  
 DAYNE CRIST: I think it was just a lack of execution and that's really the most frustrating thing about it because it was not a whole lot. I'll give them credit where credit was due, and I don't think it was really based on what they were doing. It was just a lack of execution and not a great attention to detail.  
  
  Q. What were your thoughts on Michael?   
 DAYNE CRIST: Mike is Mike. Any time you can get him the ball, like I have said before, he can score on any given play, and he showed that week-in and week-out. I think he's one of the most dominating receivers in college football and we need to do a better job, me specifically, of getting him the ball.  
  
  Q. Talk about Ragone and Eifert?   
 DAYNE CRIST: I knew they could step in and play huge for us and they both did. We'll continue to better our relationship and our chemistry, but that will come in time. We are not worried about that. I think that we are very happy with how they played, and I'm extremely proud of those guys for how they played.   
  
  Q. Looked like you were pretty upset -- can you talk about your response?  
 DAYNE CRIST: I think it was just toning things back after that conversation and not so much, you know, trying to force a cool or even keel and more of just being able to go out there and let your emotions just wear on your sleeve. I think that we are doing a better job of that, and I was clearly upset, you know with, that play, but that's football. You've just got to bounce back and find a way to score the next one.   
  
  Q. Inaudible.   
 DAYNE CRIST: You can't blame the refs for anything. But football is football. We get calls that we shouldn't get and we don't get calls that we should get. That's just how it goes. That's football.  
  
  Q. Was it important, do you think, to establish the tight end in this game, because Kyle was out?   
 DAYNE CRIST: Well, I mean, both Mike and Tyler are both very confident players and I wasn't really worried about getting them involved because of confidence. It was just more of game plan and the way that they force mismatches on defenders. Again I'm very happy with both of those guys.  
  
  Q. How pleased were you with the play in the third quarter?  
 DAYNE CRIST: I was very happy with how we played in the third quarter. The offense got us together and we talked at half time and no one was happy with where we were at. Coach Kelly was not happy and we weren't happy and it was about coming out with a sense of urgency and trying to play the way that we were capable of and making a name for ourselves in the second half.  
  
  Q. Instead of running the ball --  
 DAYNE CRIST: I think it's in the offensive scheme. I'm really just doing what I'm asked to do. I feel confident doing whatever I'm asked to do. But it was just a play call that took me there, so just doing what it takes to help our team win.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT