JOHNNIE WALKER CLASSIC
February 28, 2008
James Kamte
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   RODDY WILLIAMS:  James, thanks very much for coming in and joining us, a little bit after your round finished, but we caught up with you in the end.  A great finish to your round in particular with the eagle on the last hole.  Can you talk us through that hole?   
 JAMES KAMTE:  Yesterday or Tuesday I sort of spent a lot of time around the greens, and I saw how tough it was when I hit a lot of shots in there on Tuesday.  I just thought I would try and pitch it on the green and run it up and make sure the ball stops there.  Then hit a great 5-iron about 220 yards, and it just bounced, just trickled onto about five feet.   
 The putt, I hit it about two balls right and it just went in.  It was a great feeling.   
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  And obviously a great end to a very good opening round, you're 4-under par sharing the lead in the clubhouse at the moment.   
 JAMES KAMTE:  Well, at this stage, I didn't look that much on the leaderboard.  I thought as I walked up on the 18th, I just marked my ball and I just looked and I saw a lot of 3-unders.  So I said on the tee, if I make this one, I will be the only one who will be 4-under, and fortunately I made the putt.   
  
  Q.  Going back to the very beginning, how did you get involved in golf and did you have an inspiration?   
 JAMES KAMTE:  I think it was about 1997, roundabout there, I started off as a caddie.  So as I just went along, I took it up seriously about 2001, and I started practising after that.   
 And I just -- the only thing I like about the game, it was more about mental and just only me and the golf course.  It wasn't more about the team game.  I sort of like individual games.  That's one of the reasons that inspired me to play because it was more about the individual game, and I'm quite a very positive person and I like competition.   
  
  Q.  Where was that?  Where were you when you began to play, caddie?   
 JAMES KAMTE:  1992 to 1995, St. Francis Bay Golf Club which is in South Africa, and then a friend 1996, he joined St.  Francis Bay Golf Club, so I thought I should also become a member.  But the worst thing about it, I never played.  Probably caddied more than I played.  I played like four times a year, which was not really playing golf.  But then thanks to help from the Nedbank and the Els Foundation, late '99, I had the sort of privilege to play week-in, week-out amateur ranks.  And then through the Ernie Els Foundation which was very good.   
  
  Q.  Tells us about your Cobra nickname?   
 JAMES KAMTE:  I got that from playing soccer. I was a striker and pretty good at playing soccer so thought I was going to be more of footballer than a golfer. The guys used to call me Cobra because I was so quick and used to strike quite a lot. It came from there. Cobra as I used to strike and I was very quick and I thought I would lose it when I moved over to golf but I'll take it.   
  
  Q.  How did you rate your performance today?   
 JAMES KAMTE:  I just tried to do well on every shot I hit. I hit a lot of greens. I hit fairways and greens and tried to hit the right side of the greens. I spent a lot of time on Tuesday looking at the course and the right side of the greens. I thought if I can hit the fairway I would have a chance of putting the ball in the right place,   
  
  Q.  Was it a tough call to choose golf ahead of soccer?   
 JAMES KAMTE:  It was a tough decision but in the end was easy as I had more back up on the golf side than the soccer side. I was offered a scholarship for golf with Gavin Levenson in 2001. On the soccer side I had no back up so I had no option but to go with the opportunity I had at that time. Regrets? Not now. I am delighted I chose to play golf--   
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  Well, well played today and thank you very much indeed.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT