DORAL-RYDER OPEN
March 4, 2000
Franklin Langham
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 FRANKLIN LANGHAM: Yeah, it was -- I was pretty juiced when I got out there. I was
excited. I wasn't-- I am sure there were some nerves in there but I was excited about
playing. Hit a few kind of so-so shots starting out the round -- the thing was -- I think
the thing that helped me get through it was I expected to do that. I am not looking for
bad shots but I knew I was probably going to hit some shots that weren't quite what I
wanted them to be, maybe hit them too far, adrenaline going, things like that. But I
settled down, got more comfortable as the round went on and felt like I played a pretty
solid round of golf, the wind sort of picked up today and you know, it made club selection
a lot more difficult than the past two days, this is a what we are used to here, what we
normally have. As you can tell by the scores I think they kind of calmed down a little
bit. We didn't see any more 61s, I think. I felt really good about the way I played. The
club feels good in my hands. Putter is rolling good. I am seeing the line good, and just
going to try to keep doing the same things. 
 
Q. When is the last time you led on a Saturday night?
 
 FRANKLIN LANGHAM: I don't think I have. Never. 
 
 FRANKLIN LANGHAM: PGA TOUR, no. 
 
Q. What do you think it will be like tomorrow, more nervous than today?
 
 FRANKLIN LANGHAM: I hope not. I hope I can have fun and enjoy it. It has been great. I
came in here. I am not going to sit here and say if I don't win I am not going to be
disapointed, but I am just happy that my game came back around I feel really good about it
heading into this swing coming up: Bell South is kind of my home tournament, THE PLAYERS
Championship which is a big tournament for all of us. So I feel like my game is back in
form now and has been a big stepping stone for me. We talked about this yesterday when I
was in here, never led after 36 holes; now I am leading after 54, so that is a step
forward. You just got to keep making progress and I am just happy if I was 3 ahead; 3
behind; whatever it is, I have got a chance to win tomorrow. That is all you can ask for.
I have got a fair shake and if I go out and play good golf, hopefully I will win. 
 
Q. How many times were you leading on the other Tour?
 
 FRANKLIN LANGHAM: Probably leading three or four, maybe. I played well before coming
from -- time I won I was leading going into the last round, so I expect guys to be
shooting low rounds because they have got -- they are firing at me, I am a marked man now,
so they are going to be playing with nothing to lose and which they should do. I'd be
doing the same thing if I was in their position. They will be firing at pins. It ought to
be exciting. Hopefully I can keep continuing to hit good golf shots and roll the putter. 
 
Q. With your lack of experience with a double-bogey early would it have been easy for a
lot of people to think, well, that is going to be the end of him today. How difficult was
it? Was there any lack of faith on yourself or how -- you didn't stumble again after that.
 
 FRANKLIN LANGHAM: No, I was really calm after it. I hit a bad tee shot. That was one of
the holes that was downwind. All of a sudden I pull out a club I haven't hit off the tee.
I hit driver and 3-wood there; then I was hitting -- rescued a utility club, it was
downwind, I was first to hit. I didn't know. I was a little bit undecided on the tee shot.
I should have probably had a little bit more definite plan but I'd pulled it left and I
was in the rough and actually the second shot was a pretty darn good golf shot. It got up
to quick out of the rough. I was left on three, it caught the tree. I really didn't think
there was -- ball was sitting down in the rough. I'd pictured the shot coming out here.
Nicked the tree, went in the water. I looked at my caddie. I said, "Gollie, I hit a
good shot." I can't be upset. Let's regroup, try to get it up-and-down. Didn't hit
that great after four shot. I made double of the -- I came right back on the next hole,
hit an awesome 3-iron in there pin-high. After that I was kind of like, we have got a long
way to go, let's just keep going. I told myself if something like that happened, not to
get out of sorts. I prepared myself for it. You don't look for bad holes but you know that
there is a possibility it can happen, and it is such a long round of golf and the fact
that I am hitting the ball well. I think that is the thing I think. If I was playing bad a
lot of times it is tougher to play for the cut than it is to play to win because you are
not playing quite up to your game. I didn't truly panic. I felt pretty calm, knew I was
hitting the ball well, felt like my shots would come. 
 
Q. Consider yourself a good front runner?
 
 FRANKLIN LANGHAM: I don't know. I mean, I haven't really done that it much. I don't
know. I won one time on Nike Tour when I was in my first year out there and it all comes
down to executing the golf shots, whoever plays the best tomorrow is going to win and I
hope it is me. But I am sure I will be a little nervous. I expect all that, excited; all
those emotions you go through. But I guess you got to get there to experience it and
stomach it and go forward. 
 
Q. Almost sounds like, Franklin, the key to your success today was by telling yourself
to expect bad shots?
 
 FRANKLIN LANGHAM: No, I am not saying that. I am careful not -- I didn't, no. I
expected every shot to be good. I am hitting the ball so good right now. But I expected my
nerves to play a little bit of a roll in it. First hole of the day, my mind was just
racing. I hooked a high tee shot left. I wasn't standing over the shot going, okay, I am
probably going to hit this bad. That wasn't it. But I said, you know, let's be focused,
picture the shot. But if something -- sometimes you can get good shots and bad things can
happen. Stephen Ames played a great round of golf today, he hit a little shot thin there
on 16. It really wasn't that bad golf shot. Hit the cart path, ended up making double,
going long. Stuff like that happens. That is why it is golf. I wasn't expecting bad shots,
but I prepared myself if I got in difficult situations not to panic because I knew I was
hitting the ball well. 
 
Q. That is more maturity?
 
 FRANKLIN LANGHAM: Yeah. It comes with being confident in yourself and knowing -- this
is my fourth here out here. I know I can play. It is not like I hit one shot bad or
whatever and go, oh, golly, I don't know if I can do this. It is not that anymore. That
just comes with experience. People can tell you about it, but until you go through it
yourself, you know, nothing can take the place for. 
 
Q. Anything that happened last year Sunday at Disney that you will carry with you
tomorrow and maybe do differently or anything about that experience will help you
tomorrow?
 
 FRANKLIN LANGHAM: Yeah, I think all your experiences leading up to wherever you were, I
wasn't leading going into the last round, anything like that, but I had a chance to win,
real good chance to win. I was playing well hitting the ball well, and I think the main
thing I learned is Tiger was in the middle of that stretch playing better than anybody in
the world. I knew that, but that is the great thing about the game of golf is, you know,
everybody has got a chance. So many good players out here nowadays that don't short
yourself -- don't sell yourself short, just know that if you keep doing the things that
got you there you have got as good a chance as anybody. Day in day out he has beaten all
of us, but I am just saying that was the thing I learned from that lesson was play my own
game be relaxed, have confidence in what you are doing with your game and just play the
best you can.  
 
Q. You have got a 3-shot cushion which is a good thing, but it's hard not to tell
yourself this is kind of now my tournament to win or lose?
 
 FRANKLIN LANGHAM: Yeah, I am sure, heck, if I did lose it, people are going to say,
well, he lost the tournament. But if I do, that is fine, I have gotten myself in this
position, I am really happy to be here. I will take it. I am playing good golf and I feel
-- I don't feel like it is a fluke that I am here. I am just happy that the putts are
rolling in for me. That is what happens, like I said, so many good players now just the
guy that makes a few more putts every week, that hit a few more good golf shots, and it is
a fine line there between winning and like I have said before in other interviews,
sometimes winning just happens to you. All you can control is playing good golf and giving
yourself a chance to win. 
 
Q. You talked last night about having balance, with the family. What did you end up
doing last night?
 
 FRANKLIN LANGHAM: We -- my wife and I got -- we actually -- I am meeting her downstairs
- been nice, one of the convenient weeks, ate downstairs at the buffet; took the boys
back; bathed them and I talked to my dad and grand dad on the phone and we watched a movie
and kind of just relaxed, went to bed. The hardest part was this morning, you know, golly,
waiting 'til two o'clock to tee off, I was just like holy mackeral, what am I going to do
for these many hours because the boys get up around 6:30 or 7, and so we watched a little
cartoons with my little boys and they had some snacks in bed. We came over and ate
breakfast. I took them to the pool, my wife and, you know, hung out there for a little
bit; then went back, stretched, and got ready to play. 
 
Q. Cartoon choice this morning?
 
 FRANKLIN LANGHAM: He likes Dragon Tails and I forget the name of the other one. He
usually likes Comfy Cats but it wasn't on this morning, so.... But it -- he is pretty
entertainable right now. The infant, he just wants to be held so that was easy. 
 
Q. Being out here is what you want to do, obviously, childhood dream, everything else,
but have you caught yourself thinking - isn't this ironic the time I get my best chance to
win is the time you don't get into Augusta?
 
 FRANKLIN LANGHAM: Yeah, it is going to kind of -- I don't want to get ahead of myself
because I haven't won. It sure would be nice to get in, but maybe it will, I guess if a
local boys does good, maybe they will kind of rethink it, I don't know. I know I am a
nobody, but it sure would be nice. It would be a neat story, but -- 
 
Q. Have you calculated or do you have any idea what you would have to do to actually
get in --
 
 FRANKLIN LANGHAM: I don't know. I got to move up on the world rankings I guess, I don't
know how they -- I know -- 
 
 FRANKLIN LANGHAM: So probably there is no chance of me getting in. 
 
Q. If you win THE PLAYERS you will get in?
 
 FRANKLIN LANGHAM: That is true. Yeah, I think so. But I guess the way I look at it will
get me closer to top 40 next year on the money list that gets you in. We will try to do
that. 
 
Q. You just called yourself a nobody, I mean, how is it like that out here because a
lot of people say, who is this guy, maybe some of the media are --
 
 FRANKLIN LANGHAM: You know, I mean, to the general public, I mean, if you don't have
one of the Top-10 guys, you know, showing their pictures playing tomorrow, a lot of people
don't recognize it. People inside of golf, I hope they don't think I am a nobody. I know
the guys I play with out here don't think that. I am just saying for your average guy,
probably like hey, maybe wants to see a young kid win but they probably don't know me by
name. 
 
Q. Not just in position to win but actually break a tournament record, does that --
 
 FRANKLIN LANGHAM: I have no idea what the record is. 
 
Q. 23 under. So is that something that maybe you get in your mind, you push yourself so
instead of like maybe playing conservatively you say, hey, let's go for the record and
catch me?
 
 FRANKLIN LANGHAM: Yeah, I mean, I guess my words: Don't sell yourself short. I am
playing good. I don't want to go out and say if I can shoot even par, I think I will have
a chance to win if nobody else -- I don't want to do that because I am playing good. I
think you handcuff yourself a little bit. I am going to go out, play as good as I possibly
can play, if I play, you know, like I have been playing the last three days, heck, I might
break the record, I don't know, the conditions have really helped that -- guys have a shot
at doing that, but I am not the only one that has got a chance to break it. I know that. I
have got to play good golf to win. But back to the old saying of my dad: Just take them
one at a time. That is all you can do. You can't control how many birdies you make or what
everybody else does, you just got to take them one at a time. 
 
Q. Were you aware at all that Nick had taken the lead very briefly?
 
 FRANKLIN LANGHAM: I don't watch the scoreboard. I did look halfway through the round. I
don't know if he was on 16 or 18 but I saw he had a good round, and I am -- I might have
looked one time before I teed off, because you look to see if anybody -- you wonder -- it
kind of gives you an idea how the scoring is going out there. I saw he was on the
leaderboard already so I knew he was playing a good round, I think, at that time he was
probably 4-, 5-under, but I expected that. Wind picked up today so you don't expect to see
a lot of low numbers but somebody like him plays good here, just generally a good golfer;
doesn't surprise you at all. I expect that. I am expecting it tomorrow, so we will just do
the best we can. If I play good, great. 
 
Q. What are you going to do tomorrow morning?
 
 FRANKLIN LANGHAM: Same kind of thing, boys will keep me busy, my little boy, he likes
to putt on the carpet in the room all that. I have taken him to the range earlier this
week, but we will get up probably -- heck, it worked today; probably just do the same
thing, go eat a little breakfast, watch some cartoons, maybe, they will probably go to the
pool for a little bit. He loves the water. My little infant, I have strolled him around
'til he took his morning nap this morning, so it just kind of takes my mind off of golf.
Then when I get here, focus on golf and get give it everything I have got. Main thing is
not wear yourself out before you play. 
 
Q. You have been out here fourth or fifth full year?
 
 FRANKLIN LANGHAM: Fourth year. 
 
Q. It is not all that long, but do you get any inspiration at all what happened in the
last two weeks with Jim winning for the first time and--
 
 FRANKLIN LANGHAM: Yeah, it is great. Those guys waited a long time to win and they were
very deserving of a win. That, along with guys like Scott McCarron who is a good friend of
mine and Paul Stankowski, those guys winning and doing well, you know, it is just -- you
know it can be done, probably there were some people surprised when they won for the first
time, but I wasn't. We all know we are all good players or else we wouldn't be out here.
That is probably one of the differences in the Tour, I think, almost everybody tees it up
every week has got A chance to win. Competition level has gone up so much and we are
seeing that winning scores don't change a whole lot, but the cuts have really gotten a lot
lower out here. I think that is attributed to the depth of the field. It is pretty strong
out here. 
 
Q. Back of your mind are you glad Tiger is not here?
 
 FRANKLIN LANGHAM: Actually, no. I wish he was. I mean, I think when you are playing
your best golf you want to play against the best players in the world. If you don't, you
probably shouldn't be out here. But it has been great to watch. He has been great for the
Tour and he is phenomenal. It is just -- I think you want to go against the best and just
another feather in your cap if you can beat him. But I am sure he'd be close if he was
here, so.... 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT