SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 29, 2017
Winnie Ng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Low amateur for the week.  You've beaten all the rest of the Malaysian contingent here.  Tell me in your own words, how does this feel?  
WINNIE NG: Really good.  I was really grateful that, you know, I have such a good opportunity to play in this event, thanks to Sime Darby LPGA.  And I had a lot of fun with the professionals.  They were really friendly, all of them, for this week, all the players.  On the first hole, we started talking already.   
 Q.  Tell me some of your favorite memories from this week, golf or non-golf related.  What sticks out to you?  
WINNIE NG: The last day, I played with a girl from Denmark.  Her name is Nicole.  She was 8-under.  She had five birdies in a row, which I got excited for her, even though I'm not playing well.  After a par, she got an eagle.  I don't know, it's so good to see other professionals play well.   
 Q.  This is the second year you're playing in the Sime Darby LPGA Malaysia.  How has this year's experience differed from last year, and did last year help you prepare?  
WINNIE NG: Yes, so last year, my mistake was I playing their game plan.  Some of them, they attack the pin and I did the same thing.  But you know, amateurs are not as good.  So this year, I learned to play my own game plan; hit it to the middle of the green.   
I learned to not expect anything.  I told myself that I'm not going to expect myself to be in any position, and not to expect all of this to happen.  Just play with no pressure and just have fun.   
 Q.  This has obviously been a goal of yours to compete in this tournament, and you're the low amateur.  You're clearly very happy.  Now that you've done this, what are your goals in the next year, two years, five years?  
WINNIE NG: Okay.  So I had a goal ever since I was seven when I started golf, and I wanted to participate in the Olympics, the 2020 Olympics, ever since I was seven.  That was my goal.  And one or two years goal would be like win an overseas amateur golf tournament.   
 Q.  Are you going to be going anywhere else other than Malaysia?  
WINNIE NG: My next tournament will be in Singapore.  It's the SGA vs. LGA.  It's like the national team versus another national team.  It's a match-play event.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT