ALLSTATE BCS NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: LSU v ALABAMA
January 6, 2012
Mark Barron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.  Mark, talk about facing Jefferson for an entire game this time as opposed to having to prepare for two guys last time and what challenges you've seen him bring to the defense, going up against him. 
MARK BARRON:  We had to prepare for him in the first game, so our preparation is pretty much the same.  Last time (indiscernible) as far as our preparation.

Q.  Do you go back and look at his success running the ball and maybe focus a little bit more on that this time?
MARK BARRON:  You know, (indiscernible).  Like I said, most of the preparation is pretty much the same.

Q.  Are you feeling okay?  You think you're going to be 100percent going in this game?
MARK BARRON:  Yeah, I'm pretty good.  Maybe; maybe not.  We'll see by then.  But I'm pretty good.  I'll be able to do what I need to do.

Q.  What is added to their running game from the last time you saw them?
MARK BARRON:  They're a physical team.  I think depth, more depth.  I guess they can give some of the other backs more rest and keep refreshed.

Q.  You've experienced something like this, this media day before.  What did you tell the younger guys to expect on a day as crazy as this?
MARK BARRON:  Actually, I haven't even talked to them about it yet.  Haven't had time to talk about it.  We woke up, ate, and came straight over.

Q.  And how much has that business approach, all‑business approach, been leading into this week as far as Coach Saban and the coaches not really doing a whole lot of outside stuff but just keeping it focused on the game?
MARK BARRON:  We want to have fun, but at the same time we know what our mission is down here.  If they want to have fun, but we gotta keep our focus towards this game.

Q.  Speaking about the depth of running backs, how difficult is it?  Most teams you can key on one, maybe two, but LSU has four in which they just keep fresh legs every single time coming at you, as they get back to the line, the linebackers. 
MARK BARRON:  They can be very difficult because if they catch you in a one‑way tie, they might have a slight advantage over you. 
But they all have different traits and we just have to make sure we know what's going on and what each back does. 

Q.  Talk about anything interesting that you've seen so far since you've been in New Orleans? 
MARK BARRON:  Everybody is interesting.  Down on Bourbon Street they have all types of things.  They've got guys wearing women's clothing and there's people dancing, having a good time. 
But it seems like it's a good place to be.

Q.  Mark, are you in favor of a college football playoff?
MARK BARRON:  (Indiscernible) playoffs sometimes I feel like, and other times I feel like it's fine the way it is.

Q.  If you had to do a yes, no, or an undecided, would you be undecided?
MARK BARRON:  I'm undecided.

Q.  Talk about you guys really preparing for Jarrett Lee and not really Jordan Jefferson, the switch this time around.  Do you feel more comfortable knowing who is going to be the quarterback at LSU as you prepare for Monday's game, unlike you guys were in November when you had to really face two, you guys were prepared to face two?
MARK BARRON:  We pretty much prepare to face two this time as well.  Like I said, that first one we have to prepare for both and we knew what each guy did and what they were good at and what they weren't good at. 
So it's the same way, prepare for both of them. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT