CONSTELLATION SENIOR PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
July 14, 2018
Bart Bryant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Bart, you had a great finish there.  You got into a great position going into the final round.  What was working for you today?  
BART BRYANT: Yeah, I just played solid.  I didn't get it going early, but birdieing 7 and 9, 10, 11, that got me right in a hurry.  I was kind of losing ground, and then I made -- birdied four of those five holes, and all of a sudden I was right back in the mix.   
 Q.  Was that due to your putter or hitting the driver well?  
BART BRYANT: I made the putts I was supposed to, but I was just hitting the ball where I was supposed to, below the hole, just eight, ten feet, had really good quality looks at it.  This week I'm making the putts I'm supposed to make, so that's the big difference.  I finally got No. 18, so that was good.   
 Q.  Some of that hot streak there, that came when the weather turned worse, didn't it?  
BART BRYANT: You know, yeah, actually it started kind of raining on 10 and 11.  I hit it fairly close on 10, and I went up there and made that putt, but right after I made that putt it started raining.  Then 11, I was getting on my rain gear, and I hit it right straight in the trees on 11 and I had to chip over the trees.  I had a 4-iron in on 11, and I hit kind of a trap runner, and it was a really good shot, but it was a little lucky because any time -- I was playing British Open golf.  I was trying to get the ball in the fairway and get it up there, and it ran up to about four feet, and that was a real big bonus, and that was while all that bad rain was going on, and then on the next hole, it started dying down.  I survived kind of the onslaught of the rain and putting the rain gear off and on, so that was kind of big because it could have gone the other way.   
 Q.  Did you guys expect the scores to go this low?  
BART BRYANT: Yeah, honestly, yes, because of the conditions of the course.  You know, if they could have got the course to firm up, which would have taken sunny weather, a little bit of wind to dry it out, this scores wouldn't be this low.  But really the fairways are still rolly enough that the ball is getting out there, but the greens are just so receptive.  You're going to see some really low scores tomorrow again.   
 Q.  Talk about just in general how good you feel about how things have gone this week.  
BART BRYANT: I feel good.  I've had a couple of decent weeks this year, but by and large I haven't played great golf, and mostly due to the putter.  To just be solid with the putter -- I was very solid in Wisconsin the last round.  I didn't play the U.S. Senior Open.  And then to have three rounds here of solid putting, that's -- it's more Bart Bryant-ish.  I've really been in a putting slump for quite a while, and it was tough to go through.  I'm hoping this is going to get me out of it.  I'm using a new putter, and that seems to be helping some.   
 Q.  Did you start with it this week?  
BART BRYANT: I actually started with it that round, the last round of Wisconsin I went to --   
 Q.  When you went to Dick's Sporting Goods?  
BART BRYANT: I did, I putted so bad all year, and Greg looked at me and said, what are we going to do, and I said, let's go and buy a new putter.  I said, I'm all in.  So we went and bought a new putter, used it.  That round I shot 66, and the trend has just been better.  I haven't -- I really haven't made a ton of putts out there.  I haven't made the long ones, but I haven't missed the ones I'm supposed to make, and that's been the big difference.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT