U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 13, 2013
Bart Bryant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Bart Bryant shot a 3 under par, 67 for the day and is 2 under par for the Championship.  
   
 Q.   Good play.   
BART BRYANT:   Thank you.   
   
 Q.   Got yourself to the top ten of the leaderboard with a 3 under, 67.   What was the reason for 67?   You hit it close or good ball striking?   
BART BRYANT:   No, I was 1 over through 10, and then I kind of fired it up there.   I birdied 11, 12 and 13.   That was kind of my whole round, and then I birdied 18 as well, which was a bonus.   Then I had a couple of other chances on those in‑between holes.   
Kind of on the last eight holes, I played extremely well.   If I can continue that tomorrow, I might be able to get a good score up there.   It's going to be tough to get all the way up there, but at least make a run out of it.  
   
 Q.   Get any advice from your brother?   
BART BRYANT:   Well, let's see.   He's at home nursing a bad knee.   After all these hills this week, there may be a few more of us.   I tell you, it's quite a course out there.   It's a good one, but it's hilly.  
   
 Q.   With all the difficulty of the U.S. Open course, is the premium on hitting the fairway?   Is the premium recovering?   What is it at this point, in your mind.   
BART BRYANT:   For me, the premium is hitting in the fairway.   I'm not one of the stronger hitters out here.   With a little bit of a bad wrist, a little bit slower swing speed.   
If I hit it in the rough very often, I'm not going to be able to compete.   So for me, it's being able to keep it in the fairway.   I recovered pretty well the first day and grinded a 72 out of it.   I can't make a living doing that.  
Some of the guys are are strong enough to do that.   I played with a couple guys this week that came out of the rough extremely well.   I haven't been able to do that.   For everybody, it's different.   For me, it's definitely keeping the ball on the fairway.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT