BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 6, 2008
Bart Bryant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Just talk about the hole-in-one on 13 in your third round here.   
 BART BRYANT: Yeah, that was pretty cool. I needed that because I had kind of gotten off to a bad start. I bogeyed 11, which that pin on the front side is a birdie hole, so I was very disappointed to get off to a bad start. So at least I had one bright spot for the third round, and it helped me get it in under par, which kind of saved me a little bit. At least I didn't lose any this afternoon I don't think.   
  
  Q. As far as the situation this morning, what was the final decision with Slugger?   
 BART BRYANT: I basically ended up getting a two-shot penalty, but Martin did not get disqualified. That was my main concern. I would have felt very miserable for him playing in a tournament that there's not even a cut and then he gets disqualified. It was just one of those unfortunate things, and after it happened, I didn't even think about it until the middle of the next hole, and I went, something just doesn't feel right.   
 I wasn't going to sign my card until I talked to a rules official. I never thought it would affect anybody else in my group, I thought it would just affect me. It was fine. I really didn't think there was an issue but there was, and I got a two-shot penalty. I just didn't think it would affect somebody else, and that's really what was hard for me, me talking to the rules official is going to affect somebody else when they really hadn't done anything. It was a struggle.   
 But when he came out and I told Martin that he was going to be able to keep playing with no penalty, we all had a great deal of pressure relieved, so that helped.   
  
  Q. And as far as overall, it came down to basically what your intent was is if you could have prevented him from doing that?  
 BART BRYANT: Correct. If I couldn't have prevented. I mean, it was a split-second thing, but I could have said, hey, don't. It has to be a judgment call for me, but I had a second to stop him. I mean, I definitely had an opportunity to stop him and I didn't do it. But I just didn't think about it, and I really didn't think about it until kind of the next hole, and then all of a sudden something just didn't sit right with me.   
 Like I said, I didn't think it would affect anybody else, so I just feel bad that I didn't keep Martin in on the loop when I talked to the rules official because he already signed his card and left, so that's what made me feel bad about the whole thing. But luckily he's in.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT