VALERO TEXAS OPEN
October 4, 2007
Bart Bryant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Bart, mama always said a clean card is a happy card.  You had a clean card.  Some interesting challenges with it but you only hit 12 greens and still got home with no bogies.   
 BART BRYANT:  I was very fortunate today.  I played some great holes and actually had an opportunity to maybe shoot, you know, two, three more under but I also had some pitiful holes but made some pars.   
 I was fortunate to make about four, five really good par saves and ended out the whole round today.   
  
  Q.  This golf course will do that for a place everybody always thinks about shooting low, it can reach up and make it difficult for you, can't it?   
 BART BRYANT:  Sometimes you've got to play a little scrappy around here.  You have this bermuda grass that gets very grainy.  Sometimes you don't have a perfect strike it will comes off sideways.   
 Then when you get in the rough you can catch some fliers and whatnot.  I think it's just the type of course it is, you know, you got some undulations and you got a little bit of wind on this golf course.  It can make some semi-good shots look not so good.   
  Q.  With all the rain that they've had here this summer, how is the course playing, any differently than it usually does?   
 BART BRYANT:  Honestly, it seems like the course is about standard operating procedure for this golf course.  You have a little bit of rough.  Bermuda rough doesn't have to get real severe to get very tough.   
 All in all, the golf looks similar to how it's been over the past few years.  I thought the rough might be a little bit higher because of that rain but it seems to be fairly normal, what we're used to.   
  
  Q.  No. 70 on the money list is a very nice place to be when it's all said and done.  Is it not a nice place to be when you have four, five tournaments left to go and guys chasing you?   
 BART BRYANT:  It's not a great place to be.  I want to move up.  Fortunately, all those invitationals I'm in next year no matter where I finish on the money list because the Tour Championship win in '05.   
 Finishing top 70 is not as big for me as some guys.  Honestly, I'm fighting like crazy to get in the Top-30.  I want to get back to the Masters.  I performed there very poorly the last couple years.  It's not sitting well.  I'm going to have to do something spectacular to get in there.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT