CONSTELLATION SENIOR PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
July 12, 2018
Bart Bryant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Great round today, hiccup at the end, but that shouldn't take too much away from your round, right?
BART BRYANT: Yeah, I played good overall.  I really only hit that one suspect drive, and it just ended up in a place where I had to chip out.  So I'm not too disappointed.  You're never real happy when you finish with a bogey, but overall it was a good day.  I played really solid.  I made all the putts I was supposed to make, hit my wedges well.  My irons were mediocre, but I did get a couple in there pretty close.  Overall it was just a really good, solid round, so that's a good start for me.
Q. What would it mean to win this tournament?
BART BRYANT: Well, you know, winning a major is always big no matter what tour you're on.  It would be a dream come true for sure.  But can't start thinking about that too soon.  We're just barely, barely getting started.
Q. How would you describe the course today?
BART BRYANT: It was good.  The greens are still very receptive.  I think that's why you're seeing some low scores today.  If it firms up a little bit towards the weekend, I think it could play a little tougher.  But today you were able to go at the pins.  Of course I was out early in the morning, so I had nine holes of stadium golf before the wind even kicked up.  But if the wind blows over the next couple days and it gets a little firmer, I think you'll see a much tougher course.
Q. What about the fairways?  I know there was some questions that those could be kind of tough because they were narrow at times.
BART BRYANT: The fairways here are fairly wide for a major, to be honest with you.  I thought they might be a little narrower.  The rough is not real penal.  I think it's going to come down to the guy who's hitting his irons, wedging it well on the par-5s and then making the putts.
Q. How have you played overall this year?
BART BRYANT: Very mediocre.  I had one second-place finish at Houston, but overall just hasn't been a great year.  Last year was a tough poor year, so it was the first -- just with personal circumstances going on --
Q. Your wife passed?
BART BRYANT: She did, yeah.  And I just didn't -- I think I handled life pretty well.  I didn't handle golf very well.  I don't know if I can say that or not.  But golf seems to be getting a little bit better as the year goes on, and hopefully I'll get my game back.  My confidence was very, very low.
Q. So this would be a great pick me up?
BART BRYANT: Yeah, it's better.  I shot 66 the last round at Wisconsin.  I changed putters, actually.  I hadn't changed putters in forever.  I had been putting so bad all year, I actually went to Dick's and bought a new putter the night before the final round, and I got 66.  I said, well, I'm going to use that this week and see how it goes.  And I putted awfully solid today.  For me that's kind of the X-factor, and finally I saw some putts go in.
Q. What did you switch from, what to what?
BART BRYANT: You know, I've been using my old standby that I've been using since '04, actually, and it was a Bobby Grace, and I actually switched to the 2-ball, the Odyssey 2-ball putter.  For some reason, it was just funny, I went in -- my caddie and I were having dinner, he goes, we've got to do something.  I go, let's go buy a putter.  So I went and bought a putter, and that was the first time I had putted okay was that third round.  Even on the week I finished second.  I putted poorly.  I just hit the ball so good.  So today to see some consistency -- I mean, that's two rounds in a row where I saw some consistency with the putter.  For me, that's what it's always been about.  If that trend can continue, I think I'll get some confidence and start playing better.
Q. So you just walked into a Dick's Sporting Goods in Wisconsin?
BART BRYANT: I did.
Q. And no one recognized you or anything?
BART BRYANT: No.  No, they didn't even give me a head cover.  So maybe that will be the ticket for me this week.  I don't know.
Q. And you putted well today?
BART BRYANT: I did.  I putted good.  I didn't putt extraordinary, but I made -- all the putts I was supposed to make, I made, so that was good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT