CANADIAN OPEN
September 10, 2006
Bart Bryant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TODD BUDNICK:  We welcome the runner up at the 2006 Canadian Open Bart Bryant.  Bart, a great tournament for you, nice birdie on 17 to give yourself a shot to tie Jim.  Talk about that birdie first.
BART BRYANT:  Yeah, I mean, I was very grateful to have that birdie because I did not hit a good second shot there.  I hit a great drive and had a great yardage with my 3 wood and just made a lot of really loose swings out there today, and that was one of them.  My bunker play has not been great.  I did not hit a very good bunker shot again.

But for some reason I could really see the line on that putt and I felt pretty confident.  Rolling that in at least gave me a chance on the last hole.  I'm obviously disappointed to drive it in the rough.  It's a pretty tall order to try to get the ball back to the pin out of that rough.
TODD BUDNICK:  You said earlier that it was a great tournament for you given the round.  You didn't feel like you had your game today.
BART BRYANT:  I really didn't.  It seemed like I was out of position on the green all day long.  I drove the ball good enough to play a great round, but my iron play was off today.  I don't know exactly what happened.  But I'm proud of the fact that I was able to grind it out and still salvage a 3 under and give myself a chance on the last hole.  That's what Tiger and all these great players that win, they know how to do that.  Hopefully I'm kind of learning how to do that.  I don't have to go out and hit the ball exactly perfect and hit it close on every hole to end up giving myself a chance.  I'm proud of the fact that I hit a lot of loose shots and I was able to keep my wits about me and hang in there and give myself a chance.
Q.  A bit of a bad lie on 18?
BART BRYANT:  It was sitting down a little bit, and I was kind of between a 3  and a 4 iron.  I had 190 up that hill, which effectively it plays longer than that, and my caddie and I discussed that, and we were kind of hoping it might just come out a little hot and release up that hill, and unfortunately it came out very soft and just stopped dead.

I mean, I had to pick a shot to go with and I chose that one, and it was the wrong one.
Q.  Was it a 3  or 4 ?
BART BRYANT:  I hit the 4 , yeah.  I tried to catch a flier out of there and get it to come out hot, but it didn't come out very hot.
Q.  It seemed like Justin was feeling pressure today.  With the spotlight on him did he join you or try to fly under the radar and just get comfortable?
BART BRYANT:  Honestly I didn't even think about it.  I guess all the fans were rooting for Justin pretty hard, and I think the media was probably following him a little bit more.  I really didn't even consider that or think about that.  I actually started hitting the ball okay and kind of burned a couple putts early, but after the first few holes, I really had a hard time finding my swing with my irons.
Q.  Obviously with Tiger Woods his advantages are quite obvious.  What do people like yourself think of when they look at Jim Furyk and how he conducts himself around the golf course and in a final round with about 15 guys chasing him?
BART BRYANT:  Well, the best player won the tournament today.  There's not too many guys playing better than Jim Furyk right now.  It doesn't surprise me at all that he shot 5 under out there on a tough day.  It was a pretty tough golf course today, it really was.  It was hard to get the ball close and make birdies.  You kind of knew if somebody was going to get a 5  or 6 under round, Jim might be the guy.  He's got a lot of confidence, a lot of momentum, and he played a good round and I give him all the credit in the world.
Q.  Very interesting leaderboard, some great young players, some veterans like yourself, Jim, Steve Lowery.  Is there something about this style of golf course that brings everybody back into the mix?
BART BRYANT:  I don't know, it's good for me.  I mean, I don't hit the ball extremely long but I hit the ball straight.  I consider myself a little bit of a shot maker; I'm able to work the ball both ways.  And like I said, if you get the ball in play here, which is the most important thing, you can give yourself some birdie putts.  It was tougher today with that wind, and it seemed like the greens started to firm up, some of them, a little bit, and some of them stayed soft.  It's a little bit older style golf.  You use different clubs off the tees.  You basically use all your clubs during a round of golf.  I really like it; it suits my game pretty well.  I figured Jim was going to have a great week here because this is right up Jim's alley.
Q.  Cross winds like we had out there today, are you the type of player that's going to look at those and design a trajectory to fit the wind, or is it just one of those things where you can see a right to left or left to right?
BART BRYANT:  Trajectory was pretty important today, no doubt about it.  Some of these tees are elevated, kind of hitting down, so yeah, you've got to get that ball down, and we kind of caught pretty hard left to right winds today, like 10 and 12.  You really had to kind of knock that ball down and almost fight the wind to keep it in the fairway.
TODD BUDNICK:  We'll just have your birdies and the one bogey today.  No. 4.
BART BRYANT:  I'm the worst at this.  Par 5, yeah, I actually got away with one there, hit my second shot in the rough and had to play a fairly conservative shot because the the pin was on the back right and if you roll it long, you can kind of get yourself in trouble, and I played a conservative shot to 30 feet or something probably and made that.  That really helped my because I missed a couple good opportunities on 1 and 3 that I really thought I made, so for that one to go in kind of eased my mind just a little bit.  A few guys had already made birdies in front of me so I kind of needed to get on the ball.

8, par 3, I three putted.  Again, I just put myself out of position.  The pin was on the front right and I hit it on the front left and had an extremely long two putt and kind of misread it twice and three putted (laughter).

12, the par 4, I played fairly conservative there.  I hit a 3 iron off that tee.  I had driven had it a couple days there but left myself a 6 iron into the green.  That was one of the few good shots I hit today, hit it to about eight feet and knocked it in.

14, again, put myself out of position with an iron shot, and we were walking up to the green and I was in that funky stuff, and I told my caddie    actually my normal caddie Bob had an eye infection and had to stay home so I had a friend caddie for me.  I said, "These are the kind that Tiger chips in."  He goes, "Yeah, he did it twice at the Bridgestone on Saturday," and sure enough, I just hit a terrible chip and it went right in the hole.  What are you going to do?

And then the bunker shot, we talked about 17.
TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you, Bart.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT