THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 3, 2005
Bart Bryant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  First off, you realize you're not supposed to shoot 8 under par on this course?
BART BRYANT:  No, I didn't know that (laughter).  I figured somebody was going to do it.  The weather was absolutely perfect.  We were kind of playing stadium golf out there today.  I don't think we will see this course this benign again, I don't know.  But somebody was going to go low today.  Luckily it was me.
Q.  First time here, first time playing with the most elite field on the PGA TOUR.  Do you feel you belong, obviously?
BART BRYANT:  I'm working hard on it.  You know, it's funny because there's always those seeds of doubt; "I'm on the PGA TOUR, is this where I'm supposed to be?"  I don't know what it's going to take but I'm going to prove it to myself somehow.
Q.  Do you want to talk about the birdie stretch on the back nine?
BART BRYANT:  You're going to have to remind me.

I birdied 11, the par 3.  I was 3 under on the front and actually had missed a good opportunity on 9, a fairly short putt there.  10 is an extremely tough hole, got a par there.

Then 11, I had this unbelievable downhill, sidehill putt, and it went in.  When that went in and I was 4 under, I started thinking there might be something going on today, and I knew I had a couple of good birdie holes coming up, and luckily I took advantage of those, as well.

When I kind of saw that putt go in on 11, something clicked in me mind.
Q.  Your first round, first spin around this round in a tournament.  Were you kind of surprising yourself on the back side, thinking you might come in about 62, 63?
BART BRYANT:  Yeah, I was surprising myself all day long, but I was pleasantly surprised, for sure.
Q.  What about the way the course is in the rough?  Do you think you'll see a lot of low numbers today?
BART BRYANT:  I'm not exactly sure what you mean by "low."  I think there's going to be some 3, 4, 5s, in that range, just because the weather is very benign.  If you do drive it in the fairway, the zoysia, it sits perfect.  It's hard to hit a bad iron shot off the turf here.  It's really nice.

The hard part is getting it in the fairway.  That's what I did today and that's what I'll have to continue to do throughout the week if I'm going to have a chance on Sunday.
Q.  What do you think Tiger thinks about this?  He looks up and sees an 8?
BART BRYANT:  He's probably going, "Bart who"?  To scare Tiger a little bit I think I'm going to have to put two or three of those up strung together.
Q.  How much did you destroy your own expectations going out today to start?  What were you expecting?
BART BRYANT:  You know, honestly I was expecting to play well.  I mean, I wasn't expecting to shoot 62.  I played pretty good on Tuesday and felt like if I could get it in the fairway I had a real good opportunity to shoot 3  or 4 under par.  That's kind of what I was expecting to do.  I wasn't expecting to shoot 8 under, and I don't think anybody really expects to shoot 8 under ever on a Tour quality golf course.  It just sort of happens when you're out there.

But I think most guys probably came out today thinking if they got it in the fairway, hit some quality shots, there's a very good opportunity to shoot 3, 4, 5 under, and you'll see guys do that.
Q.  Do you kind of like the "Bart who"?  Are you the kind of guy that flies under the radar?
BART BRYANT:  I love being under the radar.  That's where I feel the most comfortable, believe me.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT