THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
June 4, 2005
Bart Bryant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BART BRYANT:  Yeah, that was fun.  Well, it was a good day at the office.  It was fun.  I started off a little auspiciously there, made double at 2 and bogeyed the par 5, No. 5, and I could get there too easily.  After that I just kind of caught fire.  It was a good day.
Q.  We've seen these streaks throughout the day.  Where are they coming from?  Are they accessible pins?
BART BRYANT:  Yeah, honestly today there were some pins you could kind of get to, for sure.  Tomorrow may be a little different story.  But holes like 9 wasn't a real tough pin, No. 10 being the back left, you can kind of feed it in there, 11 was in the front, 12 was in the front, 13 was back left where you could feed it.

There were some pins that you could get to for sure.
Q.  What part of your game is best?
BART BRYANT:  Well, I've kept the ball in play pretty good for three days, but by and large I've gotten the ball up and down real well and putted well.  Any time you're close to the lead you know you've putted well, or at least I have.
Q.  Tomorrow do you foresee the PGA taking the reins in a little bit and making    (inaudible).
BART BRYANT:  It really depends on how early the sun comes out of the clouds and how it dries out.  You know, if it gets a little windy and dry it could be pretty tough.  Like I said, there's going to be a few tough pins.  They have the back pin on 12.  That's going to make the course a little tougher.  But the conditions are going to have to get tougher for the course to play hard, I think.
Q.  We were talking yesterday, you shouldn't have waited so long to come back here.
BART BRYANT:  I know.  How many years has it been?  It's been worth the wait.  I'm glad to be back, for sure.
Q.  And in one of the final groups with the type of names that are here and the leaderboard, what will be going through your head?
BART BRYANT:  Shoot, I don't know yet.  I know I'll be a little nervous but that's where I want to be.  I want to have a little heat on me and learn to stand up under it.  That's what it's all about.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT