THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 23, 2015
Bart Bryant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  How good a round is that to be 5-under through the first knock?  BART BRYANT: Well, it's a good, solid round obviously.  If somebody would have told me I could have that before I teed off, I would have taken it. I teed off at 7.30.  I count this course in probably the most scorable conditions it will be all week, I'm guessing.  I mean, I had no wind through the first 13 or 14 holes, and then very little coming in there. The greens were so soft.  Fairways were not rolling quite as firm as they were in the last couple holes.  They are starting to firm up out there.  So I probably had it as scorable as you can get it this week.   Q.  Suggests you've got nice control and plenty of opportunities out there.  BART BRYANT: Yeah, no doubt.  If a guy is hitting the ball straight and kind of -- there's a lot of strategy getting the ball in the.  Fairway but if you hit it in the fairway, the greens are still soft enough right now that you can go at some pins without having to bump-and-run it.  When we start having to bump-and-run it later in the week, there's a little bit of guesswork, but right now you can kind of take it at the pins.   Q.  Do you like what you see so far?  BART BRYANT: Oh, it's a great course, fabulous golf course.  Like I said it's a lot of strategy.  You've really got to think your way around.  You have to hit the ball straight.  You can't hit it marginal out there and get away with it.  Some courses you can and here you cannot.  You've really got to strike the ball well to play a good, solid round.   Q.  Which begs the question, are you a good strategist?  BART BRYANT: Well, I hope so.  I was today.  For the most part I played fairly conservative.  I mean, No. 9, the par 4, very drivable; I hit a 4-iron and a wedge. I didn't get to go at number, I think it's about number 13 or 14, the par 5, I didn't get to go at it in two.  I had to lay up.  Didn't birdie that one.  Other than that hole, I really didn't put myself out of position.  I was always in position by playing for the most part fairly conservative off the tee.   Q.  Is it all about golf this week, or do you build this into a longer trip where you stop and smell the roses?  BART BRYANT: You have to smell the roses a little bit.  We did a little sightseeing on Tuesday.  My daughter and son-in-law were staying in London.  We met them, had some fun times and we have a couple friends with us.  So we are going to enjoy that, as well as smell some of the beautiful roses around here.  Hopefully not the heather.   Q.  And what have you seen them, if I'm not prying too much, what did you see on the sightseeing trip?  BART BRYANT: Well, we went on The Eye.  So we did that.  Probably not exciting for you guys but exciting for us.  We went and saw some of the sights just right there around downtown London.  It was a lot of fun.  It was crowded, I'll tell you that.  It was a lot of fun, and that was the first time I had been down there and got to see some of the sights.  It was cool.  I've been over here a few times but never taken the time to do that, so that was fun.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT