U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 26, 2015
Bart Bryant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Now joining us is Bart Bryant.  He shot a 5 under, 65.  He's 4 under for the Championship.Q. Great play out there, Bart.BART BRYANT: Thank you.Q. In addition to playing well, what do you think was your best asset today?BART BRYANT: I birdied the tough holes today.  I birdied No. 4, par 4.  I birdied 13, birdied 16, birdied 17.  Those are four of the tougher holes on the golf course.  So I just want to manage my game the rest of the time.  Birdieing those four holes, it's hard not to shoot a pretty good round.Q. Did you hit a lot of fairways?BART BRYANT: I did.  I missed two fairways early, and then I hit all the rest.  One of them cost me a bogey, and the other was on a par 5, so I kind of got away from it.Q. This is the kind of golf course where that is pretty essential, or at least it seems that way.BART BRYANT: No doubt.  In some spot, it's hit or miss.  Yesterday, I hit it in the rough coming in.  And I actually had a shot to the green, but I hit it over.  But for the most part, I think if you hit it in the rough, you're going to be just trying to hit it up in the neck short of the green and get it up and down.Q. What was the big difference between yesterday and today?BART BRYANT: Today, I had two 4 wood shots that ended up being almost gimmes.  So that really kept the round going.  I mean, that could be two, three shots right there.  And yesterday, I played almost as good as I did today.  Just today, I hit a couple shots a little bit closer and I made a couple more putts. But I actually played well yesterday and didn't just get a very good score out of it.Q. So you carry a 4 wood, a hybrid?BART BRYANT: It's a 4 wood hybrid.  I use it a lot on this course.Q. What's the loft?BART BRYANT: It's about 17 degrees.  I hit it about -- for me it's about a 215 club.  I can carry about 210.  17 today was playing 225 or so.  So it was a perfect, you know, 205 to the front, 225 to the pin.  Applied at 210, it rolls right back there.  The course is firming up.  The last few holes, you could see the ball running out like it did yesterday.Q. This is one of the few times the late/early may work to your advantage?BART BRYANT: I think so.  It looked like the scores were a little higher yesterday afternoon.  I'm assuming that's probably what will happen.  I think it's going to be pretty similar overall.  The course obviously played a lot easier this morning.  The ball was stopping, harder to run it off the fairway.  Like I said, towards the end of the round, it felt like we were getting the afternoon conditions we had yesterday.Q. Playing in the morning today, as opposed to the afternoon yesterday, did you feel more energy at the end because you were playing when it was really hot yesterday?BART BRYANT: No doubt.  I bogeyed two of my last three yesterday.  It was getting tough.  It was hot.  It was a long day.  You don't tee off until late, so you're trying to find stuff to do all day long.  By the time you get done, it's close to 7:00.  You've been through the heat of the day.  You just, you've lost a lot of energy. Those guys are going to face it today.  I think it's tough out there.  I don't know if it's going to be as hot out there today as it was yesterday, but it's going to be close.  You can feel it, and you get drained coming in.  There's no doubt I had a lot more energy today finishing out.Q. It was 102 degrees yesterday, and guys were talking about coming down the stretch getting a little woozy.  Did you experience any of that?BART BRYANT: Honestly, not that I got woozy, but this is going to sound weird.  Of course, we were out late in the day.  A lot of holes we were finishing on, the sun seemed like -- for some reason, my vision was a little funny.  I think it might have been the heat, to be honest with you.  It affects you, there's no doubt. We don't have many 20 somethings running around here like the other Tour.  We got some old bones in us, old eyes.  We may feel it a little bit more at this age.Q. Do you look at your position on the leaderboard as a bonus, as a push to yourself?BART BRYANT: I think it's a good place to be.  I saw Peter -- I think Peter Fowler is 5.  I'm guessing that there will probably be another 5 or 6, something like that.  Kind of depends on the afternoon.  Looked like there were quite a few 3s and a 4 yesterday morning.  Kind of depends on how those six or seven guys play this afternoon, more than likely.  But I think I'm in a good position.  If I play a solid round tomorrow, I think I'll be in the hunt on Sunday for sure.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT