U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 13, 2014
Bart Bryant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Second lowest?BART BRYANT: Thanks.Q. No bogies.BART BRYANT: No bogies.THE WITNESS: Made enough bogies and doubles and triples trips to last a lifetime yesterday.  It was a good turn around.  It's fun to come back and have a good day.Q. Was it out is there for the taking?  Could you have gone lower?BART BRYANT: I could have, yes.  I had a few opportunities, especially making like 9, 10, 11, 12, right in that region.  I just didn't take advantage. But I made a couple early and that kind of got me on the right side of things but, yes, it's a little more playable, at least it was this morning.  I teed off at 8:00. We had little wind with softer greens.  It will get tougher as the day goes on.  The wind was down as opposed to yesterday.  In fact, I think I saw a few red numbers out there.  I think guys are going to find it a little more scoreable.  Some of the back pins are getting -- funneling into instead of away and they set a couple holes up little bit shorter today.Q. What did you do on 15?BART BRYANT: I thought it was great.  We heard they might do that.  I hit a terrible drive and once you do that you're just scrambling to make par which, I did.Q. What kind of a boost does this give you going forward to finish a Major like this on such a strong note?BART BRYANT: I'm going to be taking the next two weeks off.  I don't have to sit on it.  That's nice.  Anytime you play a good, solid round on a quality golf course like this -- I say quality, tough golf course, it makes you feel a little bit better about things. I've been playing okay.  Yesterday it was just a weird -- I was even par with -- with the turn with two holes to play on Friday -- I bogeyed the last two holes on Friday.  I played my first 8 holes on Saturday 10-over.  I played a span of 10 holes, 12-over. Other than that, I played pretty good.  Sometimes that happens in Major Championships.Q. What do you think the leaders are going to encounter as they go through the closing stretch?  Where do they have a chance to maybe make a birdie or do you think they should be careful?BART BRYANT: Honestly, they moved the tee up on 13 today and the pin is back, that par 3.  That's the scariest hole on the course.  It's a little benign. The wind is coming in, you don't have to worry about bouncing the ball over.  That takes a little bit of the edge off.  And 14 and 15 are set-up short.  Not to say that they're going to play easy because you hit it out of position -- you know, 15, somebody is going to make a 2 and someone will make a 7 before the day is over.  I guarantee you. It could go either way but somebody comes through there and they're really on and get a couple of nice bounces at the right time they can take advantage and maybe play the last five, six holes, you know, 2, 3-under and win this thing


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT