PENN STATE UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 12, 2013
Eric Shrive
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 Q.   Eric, at this point in the season what do you do to stay energized since it's late in the season and I know you guys have aches and pains?   What is your key for that?  
ERIC SHRIVE:   You know, we have the same routine every week.   We approach every game the same way.   A lot of ice tubs and hot tubs and getting treatment in the training room for guys that are injured.   But Tim Bream has a great staff over there and I think him and Fitz do a great job of keeping everybody energized.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel more tired at this point in the season than you did two months ago?  
ERIC SHRIVE:   Well, obviously.   We've played eight games, nine games, so it's been a grind.   But just got to keep going and try to win today and win the game on Saturday.  
   
 Q.   Early in the year do you do as much hot tubs and ice tubs or is it just once the season gets going?  
ERIC SHRIVE:   I think equally every week.   Practicing is a grind, so I think preparing every week the same way.   
   
 Q.   When you get down to the last few games of your career, I'm sure it's a little bittersweet.   How do you approach this last month and just make sure everybody is kind of on the same page and things like that?   
ERIC SHRIVE:   You know, I think that each week we've got to try to win each game and try to end our careers here at Penn State on a high note.   Great group of seniors that we have here, and really looking forward to these next three games with these guys and finishing out our career on a high note.   
   
 Q.   To kind of follow up the question about keeping fresh and keeping feeling like you did at the beginning of the season, does the cold weather play into that in terms of the weather is changing and getting colder?   Is it tougher to play in cold weather?  
ERIC SHRIVE:   I'm from Pennsylvania.   I've played in cold weather my whole career, so it doesn't really bother me.   
   
 Q.   Do you recall anything specifically about Coach O'Brien's postgame message to you guys on Saturday?  
ERIC SHRIVE:   I think that's between him and us, and we're just going to fight hard this week to play a good Purdue team.  
   
 Q.   Was it extra long or more passionate than usual?  
ERIC SHRIVE:   Coach O'Brien does a great job of relaying his messages to us and a lot of that is between him and the team.  
   
 Q.   I'm curious if you still talk to Matt McGloin a lot?   You guys played on the same high school team.   Just curious what it's been like to kind of watch him succeed in the NFL?   
ERIC SHRIVE:   Yeah, I keep in touch with Matt quite a bit.   We're pretty good friends, and he's doing great in Oakland and taking advantage of the opportunity that's given to him.   That's a lot of credit to Matt and the work that he's done.  
   
 Q.   Do you watch the Raiders every Sunday?   
ERIC SHRIVE:   Yeah, absolutely.   I became a Raiders fan, hoping that he gets in the game.   
   
 Q.   Most people have said that you seem to have good practices on the Monday after a loss.   I'm wondering in your opinion why you think that is?   
ERIC SHRIVE:   Yeah, I think we're a resilient team.   We're a tough group of guys.   We're just going to keep fighting.   After the game on Saturday you've got to get over it Sunday, win or a loss, and we've got a tough Purdue team coming in here on Saturday and we have to get ready for, and I think we have a mature bunch of guys that understand that and understand that the Big 10 schedule is tough.   We have to get ready for the next week come Monday, win or loss.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT