BREEDERS' CUP WORLD CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 6, 2009
George Strawbridge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ERIC WING: We're happy to be joined with the winning owner of the Breeders' Cup Filly and Mare Sprint, Informed Decision. And that is George Strawbridge the man behind Augustin Stable. Congratulations, Mr. Strawbridge. Just a remarkable performance by a remarkable sprinting filly in Informed Decision. 
 You and Mr. Sheppard are so synonymous with great success in long distance grass races. What's it like having a sprinter like that on your hands? 
 GEORGE STRAWBRIDGE: Very unusual. I actually think she is a middle distance horse. She looks like a middle distance horse. She's bred like a middle distance horse. But I don't blame Jonathan at all, because she certainly has all of this speed, so why interrupt success just to prove a silly point? 
 ERIC WING: Informed Decision was by no means your only action on the day. You ran a very good third with Forever Together and the Filly and Mare Turf. You just picked up a little bit of money in the classic with Rainbow View, in the Ladies' Classic with Rainbow View coming in fifth. Can you talk about Forever Together and Rainbow View? 
 GEORGE STRAWBRIDGE: Absolutely. They're both great favorites of mine for obvious reasons. I mean, Forever Together, as you remember, is a champion. She's never run a bad race this year. Never, ever. You know, she's lost a race by a nose, giving away 11 pounds, and she's very, very courageous. She ran into a very slow, very slow pace today. And it was hard to make up all that ground. 
 ERIC WING: Mr. Sheppard said that might have been Forever Together's finale? 
 GEORGE STRAWBRIDGE: Yeah. Personally I'd love to run her another year, but I've experience with horses like Waya. They tend to leave so much on the racetrack that I'd just as soon turn her into a broodmare. 
 However, Informed Decision will be running, and Jonathan will still be trying to prove me wrong about her distance capabilities. 

 Q. Now that Informed Decision has run the Breeders' Cup sprint, will she be stretched out next year? 
 GEORGE STRAWBRIDGE: Might she stretch out next year? Well, I think it's probably silly to ask her to stretch out just to prove my point that she's a middle distance horse. She's doing pretty well right now. 

 Q. I wondered how hard you pressed Jonathan on the middle distance thing? 
 GEORGE STRAWBRIDGE: Not that hard (laughing). It's just a silly theory that I had. I know better than to press Jonathan. He is the professional, and I'm just, you know, a fan. 

 Q. Can you talk a little bit about the purchase of Informed Decision? The sale, and who is your team that helped you pick her? 
 GEORGE STRAWBRIDGE: That was EQB. That's Jeff Seder and Patti Miller and I really hadn't had very much luck buying yearlings. So I thought I'd, you know, try the 2-year-old sales. We were very fortunate because the first year I got Forever Together, and she certainly was, as we said, a champion. 
 Then the next year I got Informed Decision and what they have in common is an enormous amount of ability, and they're both grays. 
 ERIC WING: Very nice day for you here. And congratulations on the brilliant win by Informed Decision, in the Filly and Mare Sprint.
 GEORGE STRAWBRIDGE: I certainly appreciate it, and thanks for all your attention. We look forward to tomorrow, right? 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT