DAVIS CUP - SWEDEN vs ITALY
December 4, 1998
Andrea Gaudenzi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  How do you feel? 
 
ANDREA GAUDENZI:  I mean, I fight the whole match. I was not in the best match because I couldn't play my forehand as I wish.  On the serve of 6-5, I had something.  When I went to the changeover, I couldn't lift a cup.  So I think is something the tendon.  I don't think it's completely broke.  The doctor told me it might be a little bit.  On Monday I'm going to have a surgery, that's it. We'll see what happens. 
 

Q.  Are you out for the rest of the final?
 
ANDREA GAUDENZI:  Yeah.  I cannot even lift a glass, so I think I'm out. 
 

Q.  Was it the toughest decision of your career to retire?
 
ANDREA GAUDENZI:  Well, is not really something that you think about.  I mean, at the end, I try to hit the ball.  It was completely impossible.  I couldn't even lift  the cup in the changeover.  I played with the pain for five hours, and I could stand it.  At that stage, the pain was just too big.  When you hear that the tendon is not there, you cannot go against nature.  I mean, obviously if it happen one game after, and I close out the match at 7-5, I be happier, but there's nothing I can do about that. 
 

Q.  Can you tell us a new lineup for tomorrow and the next day?
 
ANDREA GAUDENZI:  I have no idea.  You'll have to ask the captain. 
 

Q.  At 4-Love in the fifth, you seemed already exhausted.  What made you come back into the match?
 
ANDREA GAUDENZI:  I never was exhausted physically.  I feel very good.  I could have played two hours more.  The problem was that I had pain.  When I had pain, I couldn't play the forehand as I wanted.  I could only play cross-court, never down the line.  I was limited all match.  I was probably 60% of what I can play normally.  I mean, I'm very, very happy the way I fighted and when I did, but that's how it went. 
 

Q.  What did Norman tell you at the end of the match?
 
ANDREA GAUDENZI:  Well, he said, "I'm sorry."  I mean, I don't know.  He's a nice guy.  I like Magnus.  Obviously, he's a little bit happy because he brought the match home.  I mean, I would be happy if the same would happen to him.  I don't know, he just said, "I'm sorry what happened." 
 

Q.  How helpful was the crowd in the fifth set?
 
ANDREA GAUDENZI:  Well, I have to say that it helped a lot.  In the beginning of the fifth, I was really down; I had a lot of pain.  Probably without the crowd, I wouldn't come back.  It helped me a lot.  Also I think Magnus felt a little bit, and he missed a few balls for that, I think. 
 

Q.  Andrea, when did the pain really start to get bad?
 
ANDREA GAUDENZI:  It started a little bit in the middle of the second, and then really bad in the middle of the third. 
 

Q.  You said you're going to have surgery.  Do they have any idea how long you'll be out this time?
 
ANDREA GAUDENZI:  I have no idea.  The doctor told me maybe it's not going to be too bad.  He has to look inside and see how the tendon is.  Then he has to heal it. I don't know, maybe eight weeks.  He told me something like eight weeks. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT