VOLVO MONTE-CARLO OPEN
April 29, 1995
Andrea Gaudenzi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Could you just give us some of your  impressions of the match; and first, of the second set,  maybe, what happened then in your eyes?  

ANDREA GAUDENZI: In my --  


Q.  In your opinion, give us just some  impressions of the match and what happened in the  second?  

ANDREA GAUDENZI: What is the question?  I  have to tell you everything about the whole match?  


Q.  No, just the second set.  What was your  problem?  

ANDREA GAUDENZI: What was the problem about  the match in the second set?  Well, I had no problem in the match, just I  lost, that is it.  I didn't have any special problem.  I think it was normal match and I didn't play good  enough and I lost.  


Q.  Do you think your opponent was injured and in  which way was he injured?  

ANDREA GAUDENZI: I have no idea about this  because I didn't speak to him, but in the beginning of  second set I thought he had some problems in the  changeover and I thought he looked like tired in  between the points, but I couldn't do anything about  that.  I just tried to hang in the match and obviously  I knew -- I felt that if I am going to play a third set  I am going to win or I have a good chance to win and  that is what made me a little bit tight.  Maybe I was  just waiting a little bit too much, his mistake,  instead of trying to attack.  It was basically the  biggest mistake I did in the match; instead of trying  to go for it, to go for the points and to finish the  set; I was just waiting because I just looked at him  and I thought he couldn't run anymore, so just put the  ball back.  


Q.  Why were you so angry towards the umpire at  the end of the match?  

ANDREA GAUDENZI: Well, I think during the  match I was very cool.  All the match, I behaved very  well and I didn't get angry at all.  And then just at  the end of my match all my frustration came out and I  throw the racket because I think the umpire wasn't  strong enough just to make the rule clear.  But I had  nothing against Thomas.  Obviously, he is doing his  interest, if he is tired, he is trying to take time.  It is normal, everybody would do that, but if ATP makes  the rule of 25 seconds because they want to make the  game faster, then they have also to apply the rule on  court.  If he goes over 25 second - he had already a  warning, then he has to have a point penalty; that is  the game.  Nothing against Thomas.  Obviously, he is  trying to do his interest, but the umpires sometimes  are not -- they are just scared or not strong enough to  uphold the rule, so I was angry with him.  


Q.  You were leaving the court without shaking  hands and after, you changed your mind.  You said you  are not upset against him.  Are you upset against  yourself or or upset against the umpire?  

ANDREA GAUDENZI: I already said I was very  upset during the match because I got tight because --  as I told you, because I felt that I had to win that  set; I had to win that game because obviously when you  see somebody injured; then you feel the pressure  because you feel like, you know, I can make it, I have  to win.  So -- but I was really trying to control  myself all the match, trying to stay positive and  relaxed and not to think about him but to think only  about myself and my game.  So at the end of my match I  got -- like, everything came out.  I mean, I did this  mistake though, throw the racket; I am sorry about  that.  Then I just didn't see anything.  I was angry,  took my bag, then I realized I have to shake hands so I  went there, I shake hands, then I went away.  


Q.  It was him who was supposedly sick and then  you didn't play as you were going to win that match.  It seems that he fought a lot more than you did.  

ANDREA GAUDENZI: Well, I didn't think I  tanked the match.  I think I was fighting and trying to  win, if that is what you said.  But as I told you, it  is very difficult to play with somebody which is  injured or which is looking injured because then you  concentrate only on him while you just have to  concentrate only on yourself and play the game because  you don't take risk anymore.  I thought he couldn't run  anymore, so I just tried to put the ball there, but  obviously -- I mean, he looked very tired in between  the point.  But as you can see, he could run out  there.  Because he was a little bit tired; his arm was  looser and he was taking the risk and obviously he  plays more free; he has less pressure and then he is  trying to go for the shot.  He was always inside the  court and he had a very good timing.  I mean, then I  didn't know.  Plus I don't know how he really felt.  I  know how it is, I had the same in Estoril.  I was  injured and I played probably my best game with the arm  because you just go for the shot, you don't care  anymore so you play good.  


Q.  Are you more disappointed for the match or  for the strange kind of behaving of Thomas?  

ANDREA GAUDENZI: No, I am not really  disappointed with his behavior because I understand  once you are inside the court, you try to do everything  that is possible to win the match.  Even if he really  wasn't injured, if he was faking, if he is really  injured, I know what it is, whatever.  When we are out  there, everybody is trying to win this match and do  everything that is possible.  He didn't do anything  against me, so I cannot be angry with him.  As I told  you, I just was angry a little bit with the umpire  because he couldn't make the rule clear.  I am angry at  most of it with myself because I was unable to go and  finish the match and kill him -- "kill him," I mean,  kill him -- I mean, not kill him, but with the ball.  


Q.  If the spectators are making noise, the 25  second rule is not --  

ANDREA GAUDENZI: It is not really like that  because there is now a new rule that spectators can  make noise.  The rule change, before it was 30  seconds,; now it is 25 seconds.  Spectators can move  and make noise, so when I am ready to serve, he has got  to be ready to return.  That is the rule.  He already  had the warning.  The umpire has to give him penalty  point l- that is the rule.  They change it - I don't  know how long ago.  So that is what makes me angry.  Everybody can scream and I can still serve.  He has to  be ready when I am ready.  


Q.  Don't you think you should have played more  aggressive at the end of the match when he was so  tight?  

ANDREA GAUDENZI: That is what I said.  I  mean, that is the only thing I can -- if I go in the  locker room I am angry.  If I step in the locker room,  I would like to break all my rackets, but the reality  is I have to sit down and say "I had a good week, I  played good tennis, but I have to improve this."  Once  you come to the important point -- I could see  yesterday, I had the same with Bruguera, I was 2-Love  up and in this kind of points, if you want to be a  really good player, you have to go and finish it and  kill him.  You have to go and make your points; make  the winner; try to take serve and volley; do  something.  You cannot always wait the mistake of the  opponent.  That is what I want to learn.  That is what  I have to do in the next matches.  That is what I have  to improve.  Beside, this is probably the "riassunti,"  the whole story.    


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT