U.S. OPEN
September 2, 1994
Andrea Gaudenzi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How do you feel right now? 

ANDREA GAUDENZI: Very good. 

Q. Did you expect to win when you first started playing? 

ANDREA GAUDENZI: Actually, I had -- I mean, I never thought I could win until today
when I was in the locker room, I was looking at the schedule and I saw that Rino Tomasi
gave me losing in four sets, so I thought maybe I have a chance. And I said, oh, Rino,
maybe you have a chance. 

Q. Are you surprised at your performance today? 

ANDREA GAUDENZI: Yes, I'm surprised. I didn't expect to play this good on this surface.
That is not my best surface, because my best surface is clay. I'm happy about this. I'm
very happy to be improving on hardcourt. 

Q. Is there any point, maybe late in the match, where you start thinking a little more
that maybe you said, "This is Jim Courier"? 

ANDREA GAUDENZI: I was very scared on 5-1 -- actually because, you know, what happened
with Krajicek 6-Love and Lendl, yesterday, he lost the set with 5-Love, and in tennis you
never know. So I was really scared and I thought maybe if I lose this match and I was 5-1
up and that, maybe I just tried to focus point by point and to tried to get not excited or
too nervous. 

Q. Courier said if he thought he could get back on serve you would crack; would you? 

ANDREA GAUDENZI: I don't think I would crack because I won't freak out at that time. I
tell you, at 5-3 when I was serving, I was already expecting to go to 5-4. I said this is
going to be 5-4, probably five set. I was ready to play the fifth set because that's how
you have to be. Because if you just think you have to win this game, you're never going to
win it. 

Q. Do you think he played as well as he had before? 

ANDREA GAUDENZI: No, he played very well in the beginning, I think, and I was good,
just to keep him away from me and to win the first set. Probably, if he wins the first
set, then, probably he's going to kill me, but, obviously, this is not his best tennis.
Obviously, that's why I won. 

Q. In the third set at the score of 4-3, there was a bad call. Did that affect you in
any way? 

ANDREA GAUDENZI: In the third? 

Q. In the third set. 

ANDREA GAUDENZI: Yes, I got a break because I had a little fight with the umpire, but
then I was thinking, I have really to be cool because I've lost a lot of matches like
this. Ivanisevic in Paris, because I got angry or something. So I thought about being cool
and play point by point. Otherwise, if I freak out there, it's finished. 

Q. When you say this wasn't his best tennis, what can he do better or what is he not
doing that well out there? 

ANDREA GAUDENZI: Jim, when he's playing well, first of all, he's playing like one
minute inside the baseline then he is turning around the forehand and playing a lot of
winners today. He missed more than he normally does, but it is a question of confidence
and footwork. Once you're not playing very well -- when he was number one in the world
obviously like Sampras now everything seems to go well, but when you're playing bad, this
is difficult, to start over again to get confidence and win all the matches. 

Q. Do you think as the match went on he lost pace off of his forehand groundstrokes? 

ANDREA GAUDENZI: Sorry, come again? 

Q. Do you think as the match went on, the third and fourth sets that he lost pace off
of his forehand groundstrokes? 

ANDREA GAUDENZI: No, I think he had lapses in the second set, didn't play well. I went
for Love up and the same was happening in the fourth set in the beginning he played very
bad, the beginning of the second and beginning of the fourth. 

Q. Did you think his confidence was shaky at any time? 

ANDREA GAUDENZI: Yeah, that's what I said, if you would be number one in the world he
would beat me, but that's how tennis is. Not everybody wins every time. That's why there's
a lot of players. 

Q. Where was that match when you got up in the umpire's chair and said, "game,
set, match"? 

ANDREA GAUDENZI: Ivanisevic match in Paris the one I lost. 

Q. When the umpire -- 

ANDREA GAUDENZI: The umpire went down and said "I have to go to the toilet,"
I said, "Yes, normally the players go to the toilet," so I went to the chair
umpire. 

Q. What did you think when he dumped the forehand in the net at the end of the match? 

ANDREA GAUDENZI: I don't even remember how was the point because I thought every time I
was serving I said, just concentrate. It is not match point. Play a normal point. I wanted
to serve and volley I don't know if I did if I miss a few serves, I don't remember. 

Q. That was the match point that you won? 

ANDREA GAUDENZI: Yes, but -- 

Q. Second serve, he ran around -- 

ANDREA GAUDENZI: I don't remember. I was out of place. 

Q. When you lost the sixth match point were you concerned that you might -- 

ANDREA GAUDENZI: That's what I said, I was ready to play the fifth set, but I know how
these things go. It's going to come back and I have to be ready to play the fifth and not
freak out and give it to him. 

Q. Did you have a particular strategy going into the match against Courier? 

ANDREA GAUDENZI: Yes, the most important thing was not to be passive but to be
aggressive and especially to open the court with a backhand down the line because he turns
around all the time the forehand so I have to open the court with my backhand down the
line and come in on -- I cannot tell you everything, otherwise -- this is our secret.
That's it. 

Q. Did you have any sense that he might be a little vulnerable because he had been
talking about retiring and all that stuff? 

ANDREA GAUDENZI: Well, the way he played against Krickstein and I don't know what day
it was, I think he played a very good match and he came here one year earlier, I mean, I
think he's just talking. It's just words. 

Q. Did you watch the Krickstein match on television? 

ANDREA GAUDENZI: Yeah, a little bit. 

Q. You won 90 percent of your points at the net. Was that intentional? 

ANDREA GAUDENZI: I probably won three times. 

Q. You won 33 times. 

ANDREA GAUDENZI: What? 33? No. 

Q. According to the numbers -- No. Not true. 

ANDREA GAUDENZI: I don't know -- well, I don't know. I might be. I don't know. 

Q. Is this the biggest win of your career so far? 

ANDREA GAUDENZI: Well, it's difficult to say, of course, it's -- I've been speaking
about -- four years ago when I came here in 1990, I won the juniors here on Grandstand.
After the match they asked me what would be your dream and I said my dream would be to
come back and play in professional and win on the Center Court, and that's what I did
today. It took me four years, but I made it. 

Q. How do you propose to celebrate the victory today? 

ANDREA GAUDENZI: Relax and go to sleep. There is another match in two days. 

Q. How good can you be? Do you have a particular goal? 

ANDREA GAUDENZI: My goal here was to get into the top 50. Right now I'm number 24 and
more than happy of what I did. My goal now is actually to improve my game. I don't think
about ranking -- improve my game on fast surfaces, improve serve and volley game,
aggressive game, that's what I wanted to do for this year. Then I can see what is future
potential if I can go to the top 10, top 20, maybe that is my limit, I don't know. 

Q. What do you know of Renzenbrink, your next opponent? 

ANDREA GAUDENZI: I never played him. Never played him. I know he has a big serve and
it's going to be a very tough match. Because once you beat -- once you win the big match,
the most difficult one is the one after to confirm everything. So I have to be very
careful and concentrate. 

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT