AMERICAN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 13, 2014
Donnie Jones
Kasey Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Cincinnati - 61
  UCF - 58

THE MODERATOR:   We will get started with UCF, head Coach, Donnie Jones, and forward, Kasey Wilson.   Coach, if you want to talk about Isaiah Sykes and his injury? 
COACH JONES:   Yeah, obviously he had a tough fall at the end of the game.   Couldn't tell what he had done but it looked like he had done something to his knee.   He's being evaluated right now, not sure what the evaluation is at this point but we will know that soon and let everybody know but right now he's being evaluated. 
THE MODERATOR:   Your thoughts on the game? 
COACH JONES:   Great game, proud of these seniors that represented us here at UCF.   These guys came so far.   We may have lost on the scoreboard but those guys had a victory here today with the way they competed in this tournament and at the end of the year. 
I'm proud of those guys laying this foundation for us making this move in this conference this year and I'm proud of how we competed.   Had a great opportunity down the stretch, obviously Cincinnati is a great team, Mick has done a terrific job with them.   There is a reason they finished first in this league and we had a chance down the stretch and they made the plays.   Congratulations to Cincinnati but I'm very proud of our basketball team today. 

Q.   Donnie, I was going to ask you about the decision to go box and one and how effective that was? 
COACH JONES:   Yeah, we worked on that in the ballroom today.   We didn't have shoot around, we taped off a room up there and we told our guys we were going to hold it close to the second half, trying to keep it close so they couldn't make adjustments at half time, and we were there, 1‑point, 3‑point game and we put it in to see what would happen.   I thought it was very effective, we were trying to force other guys to make plays for them just to get them out of rhythm.   They're such a rhythm team and obviously Sean Kilpatrick is the focal point.   We limited him, I don't think he got a field goal during that stretch until the end when he made four free throws, and I thought we did a good job of changing their flow, which is what we wanted to do. 

Q.   Any affects from last night's double overtime?   Did y'all feel any of that at any point in the game? 
COACH JONES:   Kasey? 
KASEY WILSON:   I don't think so, we were well rested and we played a lot of minutes last night, but I don't think it carried over.   We played as hard as we could during the game so I don't think it affected what happened today. 
COACH JONES:   I agree, last night was a hard‑fought game, as I told them, fatigue is mental, those guys play AAU ball and on weekends they play sometimes 15 games so when you're playing for an NCAA Tournament opportunity you don't have time to be tired.   No excuses for that.   I thought we played with the right energy and the right focus and it came down to making plays. 

Q.   Donnie, could you talk about that 3‑pointer in the right corner?   Was that something you were looking for? 
COACH JONES:   Absolutely, we were box and one had Justin McBride over on that side and during time out I switched Kasey over to that side because I knew they were going to run something over there.   We had to choose ‑‑ it was a 2‑point game and we didn't want to close all the way to the three‑point line obviously they bring in a kid off the bench that didn't have a lot of minutes for them.   We live with the long three and he made a play, so give him credit and that's what guys gotta do to advance in this tournament and they did.   We thought about going man‑to‑man but obviously that means we would give Sean Kilpatrick a chance to make a play or get fouled and there is no one better in the league than him in doing that down the stretch. 
We had to play the percentages, and that's what got us here so we live with it. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, gentlemen.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT