DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 22, 2016
Malek Jaziri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








M. JAZIRI/M. Youzhny
6-4, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. That was a good afternoon's work, wasn't it?
MALEK JAZIRI: Yeah.  Was very hard day, really.  Was very hot on court, and in the beginning it was very hard for me, you know, even to breathe.  I just arrived from US two days ago.  I woke up this morning very early.  I still jet lagged.
But most important I was fighting.  During all the first point to the end, I was fighting.  I had break down and then I come back.  So was very important for me today this win.
Q. You could be playing Novak of course next round.  What are your thoughts on that?
MALEK JAZIRI: Yeah, it would be a good match.  I will try to enjoy on court and I will play all my chances.
He's playing his best tennis now, and is true he's beating everyone.  But I will be on court like all the matches.  In tennis you never know.  That's part of this beautiful game.  Who knows?  Maybe I wake up on a good day (smiling).
Q. Do you still work with Petrovic?
MALEK JAZIRI: Yes.
Q. Is he here?
MALEK JAZIRI: No, he's in -- I was with him last week in Delray Beach.  Maybe next few weeks.
Q. Has he said anything to you about Djokovic?
MALEK JAZIRI: Oh, no.  We talk only about this match, match by match.  It's good that I play Novak. He know him a little bit, so is very good.
I had a few months I didn't work with him.  He was in States.  I was traveling a little bit alone and then with Tarik Benhabiles few weeks.  It was, for me, I had good work last week.  I tried to practice very good when I was in States.  I stay there to practice more.  I need to practice.  I need some confidence.  This match I said was always very important for my confidence, for next step and for all the year.
Q. Your first win of the year, correct?
MALEK JAZIRI: Correct.
Q. What's going wrong for you last few months?
MALEK JAZIRI: Let's say a little bit of bad luck.  I had maybe three match points on different matches.  In Australian Open I lost to Robredo 8-6 in the fifth.  I had two match points in the fourth set.
Qatar Open I played Verdasco, too.  I was up 5-3.  I had many -- anyway, I had command of matches.  Even last week I was playing Mannarino and I was one set up.
But is good.  I had many up-and-down, but this win was very -- I tried to fight, most important, you know, like to keep fighting, you know, and it comes.
Q. What can you do to change that, missing so many match points?
MALEK JAZIRI: You can do nothing.  Only fighting on court and you wait till it comes.  (Smiling.)
Q. Have you ever practiced with Novak?  Where does your chance lie exactly when you look at your game?
MALEK JAZIRI: My game?
Q. Have you ever practiced with him?
MALEK JAZIRI: Yeah, I practiced many times with him.  In Doha I practiced with him and in Australia.  Sure, he's playing his best level, you know.  He's winning maybe most all tournaments.
Like I said, I'm going -- you know, I have nothing to lose, you know.
Q. Which part of your game do you...
MALEK JAZIRI: First let's see him win his match and then we see.  (Smiling.)






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT