DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 24, 2015
Malek Jaziri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 B. CORIC/M. Jaziri
  5‑7, 6‑3, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   In the beginning you went down Love‑3, came back, took the set.   What changed after that?  
MALEK JAZIRI:   I don't know.   Match finished.   I didn't know what happened.   (Smiling.)   
I don't know anything like feeling like I did in the match, what's my feeling, you know.   I have the control and I control first set, and then beginning of second set, I had the match.   And two, three points, I lost second serve.   Get break.   And a lot of mistakes today.   Big difference.  
   
 Q.   You got medical treatment at the end.   Is it the elbow thing that was bothering you before?  
MALEK JAZIRI:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   What's wrong with it?  
MALEK JAZIRI:   I made the MRI, but they said I have nothing.   But still sore points in the bone.   I feel it now.   It change.   Sometimes in muscle and now I feel in the bone.   
I make more tests to see what's happened.  
   
 Q.   Coming from Tunisia, how do you dream of becoming a tennis player?   Because you don't have a lot of history in tennis.   
MALEK JAZIRI:   I mean, like we have a tradition, French tradition to watch Roland Garros in Tunisia.   So since Tsonga, watching this tournament on TV and start from there, you know.  
From that tournament and following the stars, you know, I was aiming to be there and all big Grand Slams.   That's how I start.  
   
 Q.   How is the game progressing in Tunisia?   Is it improving or...   
MALEK JAZIRI:   No, not really.   Better than before but not really.   They have more people play but no more ‑‑there is no infrastructure, not many courts.   
People try to play for pleasure, but they have to make more, you know, courts, they convert in this sport more.  
   
 Q.   But your success, that has helped in any way in getting more players?   
MALEK JAZIRI:   Yeah, more people play, like I said.   More people play from the clubs.   But facilities still not ready yet.  
   
 Q.   In the past, a talented Tunisian player would normally go to France and start playing for France, or a number of them did that.   How come you have stayed?   You seem to have stayed at home.   
MALEK JAZIRI:   I mean, Tariq I think is Algerian.   There are a few guys from ‑‑I mean, I have French passport, too.   I'm half‑half, but I play for Tunisia.   I'm happy to play for Tunisia.   
   
 Q.   You have quarterfinal points to defend here.   Is this a bit of a bigger disappointment?   Are you feeling any pressure about that?  
MALEK JAZIRI:   No, no.   I think it's not‑‑ after Australia, I think I went back to States.   You know, I didn't play very good last moments, last few weeks.   
I lost three, two, three matches in the first round.   So few things.   I went to States last week.   I had good practice, you know, and keep working till things getting better.   I tried do my best but I still not ready.  
   
 Q.   Despite the controversies in the past, the Tunisian Federation has asked you not to play certain tournaments.   You still stuck with Tunisia.   Is there any reason or are you happy to play for your country?  
MALEK JAZIRI:   No, I'm always happy to play for country.   I don't play for people.   I play for my country.   
It doesn't matter who is in the Federation.   I play for my country.   I try to honor my country everywhere.   I'm proud to be Tunisian.  
   
 Q.   Does it harm your prospects in any way, having the Federation telling you not to play certain tournaments?  
MALEK JAZIRI:   No, these was people before.   No, I try to do my things.   I'm professional, so I do my things.   I travel.   So it's okay.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT