DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 27, 2014
Malek Jaziri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







P. KOHLSCHREIBER/M. Jaziri
  6‑2, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Just your thoughts about the game?
MALEK JAZIRI:   The game, I mean, start to play ‑‑ the beginning he break me since the beginning, and since I start the match, I was not feeling good.   I didn't sleep a lot yesterday and still jet lagged from Mexico.
So I don't know.   I play a few games in the first set, and then I was feeling a little bit dizzy and finished first set.   And at 3‑2 I was feeling so bad, and then, I mean, but still I'm keeping my serve.   At 4‑3 I was feeling so bad, so that's why I call the doctor, I was feeling so dizzy. 
I had lot of pressure in my head, so I was thinking to stop, but I was preferring to continue the match.

Q.   You must be quite proud to have gone this far.   In the history of the tournament, I think only four Arab tennis players have got this far.   Are you quite proud, despite having gone out, with your achievement here? 
MALEK JAZIRI:   I mean, for me, it's positive results.   I'm coming from‑‑ I was injured long time and coming back, so I'm close to top 100 now. 
It's good for confidence and good for me, like I'm close to play Roland Garros and Wimbledon in the main draw, so it's very important for me.

Q.   How do you feel now after this result?   How are you looking forward for the next tournament?   You must be proud of yourself, as my colleague said.   Few Arabic players have got to this stage. 
MALEK JAZIRI:   Well, right now I feel bad (smiling), but, I mean, is good results.   I try to focus on this match.   I know that I have a chance today. 
Unfortunately I wake up 4:00 a.m., you know, so since 4:00 a.m. I am wake up.   But I think it's good results since a month now.   Since I have a new coach and new manager I am playing better, making better results, and close to our objective is good.

Q.   What can you say about your opponent today, Kohlschreiber, about his style of play?   And where you think he... 
MALEK JAZIRI:   I mean, he played very good.   I think since he break me in the first game of the match, so he had more confidence.   He was like‑‑ after he was feeling like I was running a little bit heavy, I was in the court, so he make me move, and so I try to finish the point, you know, so I didn't play more rallies.   I wasn't feeling good.   So he focus on that, I think.   I mean, he played smart today.

Q.   It looked like you were holding your wrist.   Was there a wrist problem or just dizziness?
MALEK JAZIRI:   No, no.   My wrist is fine.   Just was a little bit dizzy, but there was nothing. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT