DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 26, 2014
Malek Jaziri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. JAZIRI/S. Devvarman
  6‑3, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Congratulations.   You fired back twice in that second set, didn't you, from a break down?
MALEK JAZIRI:   Tough match.   Two days of tough matches.   After yesterday I tried to recover as I can.   It was a tough match, more‑than‑two‑hours' game, I think.   It was not easy.
First time I play on center court today.   Weather was a little bit hot, too.   I was a little bit afraid if I would be ready physically all the match, you know.
I'm very happy to win today.   Very important for me.

Q.   What makes someone who is in Mexico at the time accept a wildcard for a tournament in Dubai?   That's a long jump to make. 
MALEK JAZIRI:   I mean, a lot of players play well, even like 200, 300 players, they play very good.   You never know.   Everyone playing good.   Mexico I had good matches but not easy.
Quarterfinal, I mean, I ‑‑ in semis I lost.   Physically I was not good in that match.   I arrive here long trip, 24‑hours, three planes, was not easy to arrive Sunday night.   I was afraid if I could play one set, to keep playing one set.   Then I'm in quarterfinals, so I'm very happy and I will try to recover as I can to be ready tomorrow.

Q.   Your serve helped you a lot yesterday and today when you were down a break point and you came up these big aces.   You must be happy with your serving.   Have you been doing anything differently lately?
MALEK JAZIRI:   I try to be more focused in the important points.   Today I had very good serve in the important points.   I mean, all the match was so‑so, but in important points I made good serve or very good points.   Tried to play more often for in the court and to play, I mean, like my game and to fight in the court. 

Q.   Your first quarterfinals in an ATP event since Moscow, if I'm not mistaken?
MALEK JAZIRI:   Yeah, semifinals, ATP Moscow. 

Q.   How do you explain getting back to this kind of level?
MALEK JAZIRI:   I mean, since last year, I mean, was very tough for me.   I mean, I had four‑and‑a‑half‑month last year injury, so I went out of top 100. 
And end of the year I had a lot of problems, so I was a little bit out and my less focused than, you know, like, before, so it was not easy for me without coach, without staff, so I tried to fight alone.
This year, I mean, beginning of the year started, was tough too, the same things happen, so I went to prepare in France and playing with French teams.   I went to Doha.   I lost first round.   And Australian Open first round, too.
I went to States to prepare a little bit more.   I changed the coach.   I am practicing with Dejan Petrovic.   2010 he won Davis Cup with the guys, so I think he change for me a few things like mentally and we keeping working.
So I hope the sponsor will follow to improve, and, I mean, like to have a team.

Q.   Next you play either Seppi or Kohlschreiber.   Can you just talk about each one separately and what you can expect. 
MALEK JAZIRI:   Both of the players I have played them before.   I played Kohlschreiber second round Wimbledon and played Seppi semifinal in Moscow.   I lost.
Both of them good players.   I have a lot of experience.   With more confidence, I will try to focus on my game and focus on myself, so each one will come, so I hope I will be ready. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT