DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS MEN
February 25, 2013
Malek Jaziri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. FEDERER/M. Jaziri
  5‑7, 6‑0, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How did it go for you?   You started really well.   
MALEK JAZIRI:   I tried to do my best today.   Was very tough match.   It's my first match after a few months, so was not ready physically today.   I know it before the match.   I try to make the points to be shorter.  
I give everything, everything today.   I tried to play ‑‑ you know, when you don't play a lot of matches since ATP in Moscow last year, end of the year didn't play so much and didn't practice too so much.   
I would like first to like to thank the tournament that they give me the wildcard to be here and this opportunity to play against Roger.  
I did my best.   I tried to ‑‑ I think he had more experience than me in this situation, so make a difference.  
   
 Q.   What did you think when you saw the draw?  
MALEK JAZIRI:   Oh, I think ‑‑I played before top 10.   I played last year Doha to Tsonga, made three sets, so I had opportunities.   
But wasn't the same style of game.   So change a lot.   For me was great to play today against Roger.   I take a lot of pleasure and a lot of fun.  
   
 Q.   How difficult was it to bring that first set where you played superbly well, wonderful hitting, into the second set?   Because obviously then Roger took control.   
MALEK JAZIRI:   I just come back one week ago to practice a little bit, you know, like week after week I tried to do like I will start my preparation now, you know, with the tournaments, more matches.  
Like I told you, I gave my best today.   He had more experience.   He played very well the important points.   
Congratulations to Roger and good luck for him.  
   
 Q.   Was it more of a fitness situation?  
MALEK JAZIRI:   Yeah.   I think more for fitness.   You know, I don't have a lot of matches in my legs, so you need some rhythm, you know, to play this.   
I played guys top 10, so have more experience, like I said.   His level is very high.   
   
 Q.   Did you feel that there was a lot of support in the stands?   Did that help?  
MALEK JAZIRI:   Yeah, a lot of ‑‑I would like to thank all the Tunisians and all the Arabic people, their support me today.   Was a lot of fun to play here.   I take so much pleasure.   
   
 Q.   The Ministry of Sport in Tunisia said you cannot play in Dubai because you are injured.   What do you think?  
MALEK JAZIRI:   No, I saw ‑‑I mean, I saw.   I spoke to them, you know, with my Federation before to go.   The doctor when they said, he said after three weeks I can be ready, after three weeks I can be ready to play, to practice, to make my preparation.  
And, like, it was a few days ago I was ready, you know, to start my preparation.   So I was ready to play match, you know, like, I mean, not really full, like, not 100%.   Maybe I'm 50%, 40% ready.  
But physically I'm not ready, you know.   Technically was fine but not physically.   Was make the difference.   
So, you know, I take this ‑‑I'm not young.   You know, I had a lot of experience.   I played a lot of years.   I was injury ‑‑I go through difficult moments all my career, so I know what I'm doing and I know that I can play today.   
I give all my best.   You can see I made three sets.   It's not easy to take one set from Roger, you know.   It means like I was ready today.   
   
 Q.   Looking ahead, does this match give you confidence in building back your fitness and getting back to playing matches?  
MALEK JAZIRI:   Yeah.   You know, before the match, like I said, this match gave me a lot of confidence, you know, for all the season.   
I played very talented player.   I take a lot of fun.   I tried to do my best.   I tried to make nice shots, you know.   
So I have nothing ‑‑I give my best.   That's it.  
   
 Q.   Do you think you are not lucky to play the first match against Federer?  
MALEK JAZIRI:   I was happy to play Roger.   Was one of the things that I want to do it, you know, in my career is to play ‑‑ you know, it's nice when you play against players, a legend.   
Take so much pleasure, and so I take a lot of fun and I try to do‑‑ you know, all the people that come here to support me, I give them what I can do, and I hope I will have more matches like these ones in the future.   I'm sure I'm, with practicing, you know, I will play more better, I think.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT