DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 1, 2018
Malek Jaziri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. JAZIRI/S. Tsitsipas   
6-4, 3-6, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You had to fight really hard for that, didn't you?  
MALEK JAZIRI: Yeah, it was a big fight today.  Was not that easy at all.  I finished very late yesterday.  I think I was in bed at 2:30, so I didn't sleep a lot.  I tried to recovery the most.  I had to get ready today.  It's not easy.  I have less than 17 hours, I think, or 16 hours to prepare the match of today.  Was a tough moment.   
During the match I was up and down little bit today.  But I'm happy to win this match.   
 Q.  You called the trainer to the court a couple times.  What was the issue?  
MALEK JAZIRI: I had some little bit pain, little bit in the hip from yesterday after the match.  So I ask for a painkiller.   
 Q.  How tired are you now?  
MALEK JAZIRI: I will tell you tomorrow (smiling).   
Yeah, I will try to recovery.  You know, when you're happy, you don't feel tired.  You don't feel that in the moment.  You are emotional, so you don't feel that.  You feel a little bit tired, but hopefully keep going like that.   
 Q.  It looks a little bit like you saved the tournament.  This is your story, just winning and winning, after all what happened.  
MALEK JAZIRI: Yeah, hopefully the nice story will continue.  Always nice story start from nothing.  So hopefully start like this this week.   
 Q.  What does it mean to you to succeed in an Arabic tournament really?  
MALEK JAZIRI: Is really important, I think, for me and all Arab players.  They can believe they can succeed in tennis, as well.  It's true maybe you don't have a culture like other countries maybe in tennis, but is growing up.   
Hopefully I will give positive energy.  I will be hopefully a locomotive for the next generation of the next kids hopefully.   
 Q.  We remember the Moroccans of a few years ago.  Do you see that coming?  
MALEK JAZIRI: Hopefully, yeah.  Tennis in Tunisia is growing up a lot.  A lot of people in Tunis.  A lot of people playing tennis in Tunisia.  Start to be important sport in my country.  Hopefully we continue that.  Hopefully we have the next generation be even better.   
 Q.  Does that bring extra pressure?  Can you feel that when you're on court, as well?  
MALEK JAZIRI: I mean, like I really enjoy.  I'm 34 today.   
 Q.  It's your birthday?  
MALEK JAZIRI: No, like month ago.   
So I enjoy all the moments on court.  Was really important for me to enjoy the game, to fight for every point, to feel all these people are watching my match, with my back, to cheer for me every point.  I feel that moment.  When I play, I feel them.  They feel me, I feel them.  We have that contact.   
Even today, they helped me a lot.  When I was little bit down in the third set, was not easy, I feel them.  They was with me.  They push me.  This I think give me more power today.   
 Q.  Do you see that as an advantage against anybody you play here this week, to have that?  
MALEK JAZIRI: Hopefully, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT