QATAR EXXONMOBIL OPEN
January 3, 2017
Malek Jaziri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








P. KOHLSCHREIBER/M. Jaziri
6-2, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.
Q. Talk about the match.  You were in the second set.  What do you think changed things?  What's difficult for you in his game?  That was the third loss you've had.
MALEK JAZIRI: I think was tough match today.  I play a player who played good I think during the match.  I had few good opportunities today, like you said, in second set.
Even in first set I had I think seven or eight break points but didn't take a break.  I think today I can -- like I said yesterday or day before, I think was not really 100%.  You know, like I need maybe few matches like that before I can get in good shape and having important points, to play more these kind of matches I been practicing.
But I think I made few good things today, like few good opportunities.  I think I improve a lot of things during this week.  I had, like I said, new coach, so we practice a lot on the backhand.  I think I improve a lot the backhand.
And the serve as well.  You know, I have big percentage of first serve today.  So I will take the best today from this match and work on that.  I will keep working tomorrow.
Q. What's your schedule like after here in the next couple months?
MALEK JAZIRI: I'm playing Auckland, New Zealand, ATP 250, and then Australian Open then Davis Cup and Montpellier in France.
Q. What's the main thing you will take from this week, perhaps something you are happy with during this one month you passed here either in training or during the two matches you already played?
MALEK JAZIRI: Maybe, I mean, like I had good practice.  I really practice good physically.  I mean, I made big effort in fitness.  Even today I was really fit physically, you know.
During all the month I practice very good.  Only like tennis maybe like less than fitness, but maybe I can have -- I will be maybe in the future hopefully next year I will come back better draw.
Every year I play seeds I play, so every year I had a tough draw here.  For sure I have to beat these guys if I want to play with the best guys.  But to start the year with top 30 or maybe top 10 -- I played Tsonga, Verdasco, Kohlschreiber this year.  I think every year the draw is -- I don't want to say unlucky, but can be easier.
Let's take the positive things from this match today.  I have new team, so we will start to work tomorrow morning and to improve the things hopefully to get ready for Australian Open.
Q. (Question regarding working with his new French coach.)
MALEK JAZIRI: I have a lot of positive things.  Also, he help me improve my backhand.  Also we are cooperating with each other in a good way and we are understanding me and I understand him.
I think that we can improve in the future.
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Arabic?
Q. (No microphone.)
MALEK JAZIRI: He was head coach in Tunisia, and he was head coach for Tunisia National Team for seven months.  Also coached in Egypt.
Q. (No microphone.)
MALEK JAZIRI: The most important thing for me, I would like to enter the top 30, top 50, so I have to defend this ranking.
Why not I can enter the top 10?  Now I became more experienced inside and outside the court.
Q. Yesterday you lost in doubles and now you lost in singles.  What are the positive things that you took from this tournament into your future?
MALEK JAZIRI: The most important thing in tennis, you have to have yourself and you have to improve yourself.  So if I lost, it's no problem.  I can improve more and more.
Also, there are lots of positive things, but my negative point today was the backhand.
Q. This is your fourth match with your coach.  (No microphone.)
MALEK JAZIRI: He was a player who has experience.  He defeated me before.  That's why he enter the match more confident.
So because he defeated me in previous tournaments he know how to deal with me in this tournament.  I think that makes difference during the match.
In the first set I have three break point but I was not able to take a break.  That's why I lost the first set.
Q. Regarding your ambitions and goals in 2017.
MALEK JAZIRI: As I said before, I would like to enter the top 10, top 20.  I'm improving my things, my play.  I'm trying to do my best.  My backhand, I'm trying to improve it.
Today my percentage was good.  I'm trying to improve myself so I can be able to defeat these players.
Q. In the next months you will play Davis Cup for Tunisia.  How do you see this match?
MALEK JAZIRI: Next month we will play Sweden.  The new players are still new and they are not experienced.  These players, they are only playing for universities in United States of America, so they don't have lots of experience.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT