ROLAND GARROS
May 26, 2016
Malek Jaziri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
T. BERDYCH/M. Jaziri   
6-4, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French, please.   
 Q.  I would like to know how you feel after the match.  Could you give us a rundown?  
MALEK JAZIRI: Well, I fought; I gave everything I had during the match; I played against someone who has a lot of experience who has played quite a few Grand Slam matches.   
I had a couple of opportunities.  In fact quite a lot of opportunities, especially in the fourth set where I had a lot of opportunities to break.   
But a lot of positive from this.  I've made good progress on clay.  I've shown a lot of good things.  I continue to believe in myself and make progress.   
 Q.  In the fourth set it all hinged on a little detail.  What happened between you and the referee?  
MALEK JAZIRI: In fact, at the start of the first game the ball was out.  He said it was in, that it was just touching a little.  Just for one ball.   
Then in the fourth set it was just a little thing.  I had the next service after the break.  I could have won the fourth set.  I could have been more confident, but unfortunately it was the finer details.   
I'm learning some good things.  It's really important for me for the end of this season.  This is my second Grand Slam tournament.  Although I lost today, it's still a positive result.  I hadn't played for two and a half weeks prior to that.   
So I'm still believing it, and I'm going to make it.   
 Q.  What about the Olympics?  
MALEK JAZIRI: For the Olympics, after the French Open I'll probably be 61, 62, and I think my ranking will allow me to enter the Olympics directly, which is something that every athlete would love to do to represent their country.  It would be a huge honor for me.  I'm going to go there to work hard and see what the result will be.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  How do you feel about playing on a big court like Suzanne Lenglen for the first time, and do you think the experience was very important to play someone like Tomas Berdych?  
MALEK JAZIRI: Yeah, I think the experience is very important when you play Tomas.  I think he played a lot of Grand Slams and more in Roland Garros.   
I mean, I played many times in Grand Slam center court, but first time here Roland Garros.   
Yeah, I think in the beginning maybe I start a little bit tight, and then all the time with more, playing game by game, I get more confidence and I was more relax on court and try to enjoy and have more fun on the court.   
I think I play good second set.  I think I show very good level of tennis.  Fourth set too I had a lot of opportunities.  I didn't take the opportunities when he was serving in the 4-3, but I just take the good things from this match.   
It's very important to stay positive and to learn a lot of things from this match to keeping playing on this level, you know, high level.   
And hopefully I will pass this level hopefully.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT