U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 14, 2012
Peter Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   With Peter Fowler.   Shot 4 under 66 today.   What changed from the first two days?   How were you able to get it to go low today? 
PETER FOWLER:   Different putting.   I putted much better today, which is always a real key for scoring.   Played really well the first day but didn't hole any putts through 70.   And yesterday was quite difficult.   The course, fairways and greens had dried out quite a lot with the wind in the afternoon, and I didn't hole any putts either.   So that was a bit of a struggle yesterday. 
It was a nice morning this morning, and greens were holding, and so I'm‑‑ the putting, really, you've got to roll those putts.

Q.   So I don't know if you know this, but you have birdied 15 the last three days?
PETER FOWLER:   Okay.

Q.   Is there something special with 15?   Are you playing it differently, or‑‑
PETER FOWLER:   No.   Two of the days, I drove it just short of the down slope, so I had a nice uphill lie to be able to carry the trees.   So it was a perfect distance to be able to sort of whack on up there off on uphill lie.   When you get on the downslope, I'm trying to drive it as far down there as possible.   It's a tricky shot. 
But I holed a really good putt yesterday, and I had a good pitch shot close today so that, yeah, so hopefully I can keep doing that.

Q.   What kind of momentum does this give you going into the final day here? 
PETER FOWLER:   Well, it gets you back into, sort of, some sort of striking distance.   I think the pin positions are a bit easier today, and with them holding, it will be better.   So I notice a few good scores out there.   So hopefully, I'm still sort of‑‑ we're getting more amongst it.   We have a bit more atmosphere. 
Teeing off first, there are not that many people out there and everybody's sort of‑‑ it's only 12:00 now.   We're finished.   To get in the middle of the field and suck up the atmosphere would be great.

Q.   Great.   Have they watered the fairways or anything? 
PETER FOWLER:   I think they have.   They dried out quite a lot yesterday afternoon in the wind.   So it looked like they'd watered them, but they were all right.   They weren't too wet.

Q.   Think we'll see a lot of 65s today? 
PETER FOWLER:   I think the pin positions are a little bit easier.

Q.   Probably the easiest of the three days? 
PETER FOWLER:   I think so, yeah.   Yesterday, I thought they were quite tough.   They were closer to the edges and when it drys out a bit, and it was windy.   That made it sort of difficult yesterday afternoon.   I don't know what it was like yesterday morning.   But the first day was not much wind.   Today wasn't much wind.   So probably the best days.

Q.   Thank you. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT