THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 11, 2012
Peter Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   A lot of good energy in your group today.   Just talk about the round.   
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, we had a good time.   You know, unfortunate to see Hunter play the way he did.   He's obviously one of the most consistent guys on TOUR.   
Tiger and I had some fun, got things rolling the last 10 or 11 holes and kind of fed off each other.   Nice to go back and forth like that, and obviously in a good way making a lot of birdies.   
   
 Q.   Having won last week, sometimes the energy is down the next week.   You seem to have picked that up today considerably.   
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah.   You know, yesterday was tough.   I got off to kind of a slow start, just kind of had to hang around and made a lot of pars, kind of back and forth a little bit here and there.   
But I felt good coming off last week.   The game is good and been swinging well.   Nice to come off two solid weeks being that I've missed the cut here the two years prior.   
So no, that was my main goal coming in, to finally get to play the weekend here, and it was fun playing with Tiger and kind of going back and forth like we did and feeding off each other to help get some rounds together.  
   
 Q.   Yesterday you were saying that when you play at home, Tiger is more free‑wheeling.   Was that more like he plays at home when he plays with you, what he did today?   
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, when we got going back and forth there making some birdies, he birdied‑‑ made a good birdie at 8, then we kept going from there.   
Yeah, it was fun to see him kind of get things going, and it looked like he freed up a little bit and started playing some golf.   
You know, he's hitting a hot of good shots and hitting a lot of good putts.   There's a lot of putts that didn't go in.   We'll see what we both can do this weekend.  
   
 Q.   You play in front of big crowds every week, but is that something you feed off of or you try to put out of your mind, like the way it was out here today?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   I enjoy it.   Big crowds, I mean, Ryder Cup and major championships, and obviously here the first couple days with Tiger, he draws a huge crowd.   I enjoy playing in front of a big crowd.   
It feels like they want to see good shots, and it puts a kind of a good pressure on, you makes you focus a bit, and you want to hear the roars.   So it's good playing in front of them.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel pressure to make this cut considering what you did last week?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   My main goal coming into the week was to get to play the weekend.   But I've been playing well the last couple weeks and just stuck with my game plan and swing thoughts, and knew coming into today I was just going to have to put up a solid round.   
And it was nice to kind of get some‑‑ get into a rhythm and get some momentum going there on the back nine.  
   
 Q.   Rory missed his third cut today; said he had no idea how to get around here.   Are you surprised someone of his ability struggles so much here?   
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, I can definitely relate.   I had to play some good golf just to make the cut here this week.   I missed it the two years prior, so kind of in the same boat as him.   
It's not an easy course.   He's been playing well, so I am very shocked to not see him playing the weekend here.   It's a fine line.   This course can get under your skin.   It took care of business with me the first two years, so I'm happy to make the cut.   But at the same time, definitely surprised not to see Rory playing.   
   
 Q.   What have you learned about playing here?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   I don't think there's a whole lot to learn here.   
For the most part it's right in front of you and you've just got to keep the ball in play off the tee.   I'm not sure how he played tee‑to‑green or putting‑wise, but I feel like here the biggest thing is driving the ball in the fairway.   
   
 Q.   What did you see on the last putt on 18?   Did it look straight to you?   
RICKIE FOWLER:   Supposed to break a little bit left there.   I was trying to start it just on the edge and hit it soft.   I hit it a little bit harder than I wanted to, and I may have started it just outside.  
   
 Q.   I know it's only been a couple weeks, but do you feel like a considerably better player these last couple weeks?   Something that clicked these last couple weeks than maybe six months ago or a year ago?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   Well, I've been swinging well.   Finally got to where I was hitting the center of the club, driving it well, playing out of the short grass.   Been driving it well all year and finally getting some iron shots closer to the hole, making some birdies.   
Between Joe and I working well together on the course, some advice from some other guys who I won't mention, but just kind of sitting back and playing my game and not worrying about too much of outside pressures and just focusing on what I want to do.   
   
 Q.   What did you hit on 17?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   17 I hit wedge today.   
   
 Q.   It is the kind of golf course if you make it to the weekend, you're in contention.   You can put up good numbers, no matter what anybody else does in front of you, and if you're playing well you've got a shot?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, most definitely.   I was focusing on the back nine making sure we were going to give ourselves a chance this weekend.   And it was nice to make some birdies on 16 and 17 to give myself some cushion coming down the last.   
I really wanted to make the four, because being four back going into the weekend would have been a nice place.   Five back going into tomorrow and put ourselves in position for Sunday.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT