THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 22, 2011
Peter Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Six birdies and two bogeys in a round of 4-under, how well did you play today?
 PETER FOWLER: I played pretty good today. I started to loosen up a little more today than yesterday. And so I thought if I drive the ball I wouldn't get into too much trouble. I was pretty happy.

 Q. Nice pitch in for birdie at 16. Tell us about that one. 
 PETER FOWLER: You need one of those. Haven't had one of those in a while. It was good. It was a tough shot on the downslope and may have run a bit fast, but gets in it.

 Q. Do Senior majors feel different to regular events?
 PETER FOWLER: No, actually they feel like a regular event. Senior major, the British Open, seniors, all the big stars here, full field. So it's a big event. You've got to play well.

 Q. Couple of wins for you this season, six top 10s. What's behind the good form?
 PETER FOWLER: My body's feeling much better than it has for a while. I had a few surgeries a couple of years ago. So -- and did a lot of rehab and still doing it. And the body feels good. And I think it's helping my golf swing because I've got to pay special attention to make sure that my body doesn't move around too much. 

 Q. Good day's work, wasn't it?
 PETER FOWLER: It was good fun. Had a couple of good guys to play back with, Mark O'Meara, Sandy Lyle. I've enjoyed it.

 Q. Does that give it a special feel when you've got major champions playing alongside you?
 PETER FOWLER: Absolutely. Just to rub shoulders with them. For years they've been the pinnacle of world golf the last 30 years, Sandy and Mark, just to be playing with them, it's great.

 Q. You were having a stellar year on the Seniors Tour, plenty of wins already and plenty of consistent performances what's the secret?
 PETER FOWLER: It was great to get a couple of wins. But even more happy the fact that I've been able to maintain it through the years. Played pretty good since November of last year.

 Q. A reason?
 PETER FOWLER: I played for a few months last year after coming back from back surgery, and so I was a bit iffy there until November. Then November started to feel strong again. And third I was starting to do a lot of rehab now. But it's been from rehab to playing golf. So most of the time I'm pretty good.

 Q. So the first part of the week has been achieved. You're nicely in contention after two rounds. What's the target for the second part of the weekend?
 PETER FOWLER: Just to maintain what I'm doing. I feel comfortable today. I had a good finish last time, the last four holes. I think I picked up a bit on the front nine, so just more of the same. And just keep the rhythm going.

 Q. Walton Heath agrees with you, it seems like a great place to play?
 PETER FOWLER: It's a great place. I love these courses. You talk about the links, which are fantastic. Heathland, southern England, is just magic. Must be 50, 100 courses like this. And they feel a little bit like a lot of courses in (inaudible), but you've just got a lot more of them. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT