THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 22, 2016
Peter Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 69, how does that feel?
PETER FOWLER: I got off to a good start with a birdie on the first and sort of settled down and played some good golf.
Q. You had five birdies in six holes; how did that feel?
PETER FOWLER: That was good.  The first nine in this wind is a little bit more difficult.  Second nine, I played well and got into a good rhythm.  Even though I hit in a couple bunkers, I managed to get up-and-down.
Q. How was the wind today, because it's slightly calmer from when you played yesterday afternoon?
PETER FOWLER: It's quite calm, but the ball still goes a long way downwind and very short into the wind.  I'm glad it wasn't any stronger.
Q. Is the course starting to dry out from the rain on Wednesday?
PETER FOWLER: Just a little bit I think.  Not a whole lot.  It's still maintaining, so it gives us a bit of a break, and there's some good scoring today I notice.  You've got to get into it.
Q. You come into this event thinking you can hit certain irons here, but now hitting different irons, does that come in your mind?
PETER FOWLER: You have to get used to how quickly it's stopping compared -- I hit a wedge on Monday and it was running 40 yards.  It was really difficult to get anything on the green.  It's still much firmer than any other golf tournament we play, so that's still difficult, but we are getting used to it.
Q. What's your game plan for the weekend?
PETER FOWLER: Just got to keep playing good golf and hopefully you can roll a few putts.  I'll just keep my routines going and see what happens.
Q. What's your memories here, good or bad from the past?
PETER FOWLER: Well, it's always been a difficult course.  I played The Open in 2007, which I thought was difficult.  Playing a bit longer.  Had a lot of rain then and probably a bit more rough.
If you waiver a bit here, you can get punished.  So you've got to stay quite positive.  There is a lot of trouble around, but you've just got to try and hit your shots and hope for the best.
Q. You can't mentally relax here.
PETER FOWLER: There's not really a whole lot of strategy here.  You've just got to keep hitting good shots.  Like St. Andrews, you can play the angles and you can keep out of the bunkers by playing differently.  But here, you can't do that.  It's sort of quite narrow and you've just got to keep playing positive.
Q. Having all these birdies on the spin, as well, today, that must have been a pleasurable feeling.
PETER FOWLER: I hit five good drives, and when you hit good drives, it sort of gives you a bit of an opportunity.  If you're hitting it out of the rough, that's when it brings all those front bunkers into play.  It's quite difficult.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT