U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 26, 2015
Peter Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: It's my pleasure to welcome Peter Fowler into the Media Center.  Mr. Fowler, 69, 66, for a two-day total of 135.  That's 5 under par, now tied for the lead with Jeff Maggert. Peter, you started on 1 today and got started hot right away, birdies on 1, 2, and 4.PETER FOWLER: It was nice to get off to a good start.  Hit a beautiful drive down the 1st, which was nice, and was able to hit the green, two-putted from about 18 feet.  Beautiful tee shot on the 2nd and rolled the putt in.  So it was a nice way to start.THE MODERATOR: It was.  Then you made some -- you bogeyed 5, but then came back with birdies on 7 and 10.PETER FOWLER: Again, I had good drives and good approach shots.  I'm rolling my putter really well.  I've got a good feel for the speed of the greens, and I like the way the greens are rolling.THE MODERATOR: So 33 putts yesterday, seven fewer today.  You had 26 putts today.  It seemed like the putter was really working, including down the stretch at 16 and 17, your last two birdies of the day.PETER FOWLER: Yes, exactly.  In all, a good par putt from about 18 feet on the last so that was good.  I didn't hole as many putts yesterday, but my feel on the greens was pretty good.  Today I just got in the zone.THE MODERATOR: Of course, you've already won twice this month.  You've had a great June already.  Obviously feeling pretty good about your game and your chances here the last 36 holes?PETER FOWLER: Yeah, I've been really happy with my game.  Best I've putted for 20 years.  I've got a new putter, and it's nicely balanced, and it's suited me. Yeah, my good golf started when I qualified for the Senior U.S. Open in Kansas a month ago.  It's carried on.Q. It looks at this point it's going to get pretty close on the leaderboard unless somebody shoots a big number in the afternoon.  How do you approach the weekend, knowing everything is going to be pretty tight?PETER FOWLER: I don't think anybody is going to go super low here.  There's not many par 5s.  There's only one reachable par 5, and that's the 1st hole.  It's a tough golf course.  The greens are firm and fast.  So if you're out of position, it's very difficult to get it close. I don't think anybody will run away, which I suppose is a normal U.S. Open.  Just got to keep playing nice, solid golf, and going to try and stay cool.Q. Now when you factor in the heat, going later yesterday, earlier today, any advantage that you see?  Maybe it might help protect your lead going in because the guys that are on the course just now teeing off might find it more difficult to score on top of the way the course is set up?PETER FOWLER: With the heat yesterday, the ball was going quite a long ways so you had to try to get it into the zone.  But it was certainly draining.  I worked hard on trying to keep my cool with those cold towels out there with the ice buckets.  I wouldn't mind jumping in one of them.  The weather was nice this morning.  It heated up on the back nine. It will be hot again this afternoon.  Again, we're not as young as we used to be.  So it takes its toll if you don't look after your health on the golf course.Q. As a follow-up, when you saw your pairings and tee times going in, you were going to go late and then early on cut day, did you think that might come into play at all playing early on a cut day, on a Friday?PETER FOWLER: No.  It's worked both ways over the years.  When you're a professional golfer, you've just got to take what you get.  I didn't really read much into that.  It was definitely nice to have the cooler weather to start today after a tough afternoon, which I just tried to hydrate last night and tried -- because it takes a lot of energy out of you, the hot weather.  So just got to look after myself.Q. At the flash area, you were talking about the fairways being a little tight or something like that.  Could you elaborate on that?PETER FOWLER: I think in preparation, they must have put a lot of sand on the fairways, and they're quite tight.  The ball sits down.  So it helps to sort of nip it pretty good, but you've got to make sure you don't finish on too many downslopes on the fairways.  It's a good, tough test of golf hitting off these fairways, yeah.THE MODERATOR: Two-day total of 135, 5 under par.  Great playing.  Best of luck on the weekend.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT