U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 26, 2015
Peter Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Nice round today.  Talk about that, just overall.  PETER FOWLER: It was a bit cooler than yesterday afternoon, so that certainly helped us get into a rhythm.  The weather is beautiful, and the course is in great shape.  I was happy to get out there early and make a couple birdies on the first two holes.  Got me going.   Q.  Every time we looked up, it seemed like you were holing a putt of some decent length.  Including the one on 18, which we guessed at about 18 feet.  Do you just like the greens?  PETER FOWLER: I felt like I picked up the speed of the greens fairly early in the preparation, and they're perfect greens, and they're rolling beautifully.  So it really helps us to hole putts.  If the greens are bumpy, it's a bit of a lottery, but these are pure, and I'm getting in good rhythm.   Q.  How was your game coming into the week?  Did you expect to play this well?  PETER FOWLER: Actually, I played the U.S. PGA, and since then I've played three European Senior Tour events.  I finished second, tied with Ian Woosnam in Wales, and then I won the Jersey Open and the British Senior PGA a couple weeks ago.  So I've had a good run.   Q.  So you were expecting to play well?  PETER FOWLER: Yeah, I've been playing well, and I came over last Wednesday to try and get used to the time zone.  That really helps.   Q.  Monty was talking a little bit earlier about the USGA setups and how if 156 people are in the field, 100 of them are beat before they ever tee off because they don't want to be there.  They don't like the rough.  They don't like the conditions.  Where do you fall in that category?  Are you somebody who loves this kind of setup, or are you somebody that is like this is a hard golf course?  PETER FOWLER: It's a tough golf course.  It was playing long early in the week.  As it's gotten warmer, it's played shorter.  The fairways are difficult to hit off.  They're quite tight.  The rough's thick. I've hit a lot of fairways.  I think that's really helped.  Hit a lot of fairways, you've got a chance.  The fairways aren't too narrow, but you've got to watch it a couple of times.  As the ball's going extra distance in the heat, you've got to make sure you don't hit it into the narrow area. So we're just trying to plot our way around.  There's not much wind, but sometimes you can't tell if it's helping or hurting.  So you just got to keep an eye on all that sort of stuff and hit as many fairways as you can.   Q.  I'm sure the wins you had in Europe, the courses weren't like this.  Your game has to translate from links style, or whatever you're playing there, to here.  What kind of adjustments did you make, if any?  PETER FOWLER: Actually, the three courses we've played have been fairly firm, fast greens.  So in Wales, it was very hilly.  So the speed of the greens there.  That was some really tricky greens.  Then I played a links course in the Jersey Islands, where Harry Vardon was from.  I was playing the ball along the ground, it was quite windy and quite chilly.  So that was a good test. Then two weeks ago in the north of England, at Close House, it was firm and fast.  So that as far as the greens were going and the firmness, I was well prepared for this week.  So that really helped.  It doesn't always work out that way, but it was nice.  And then the U.S. PGA, obviously, at French Lick, the greens were firm and fast there.   Q.  Peter, you played 18, finishing holes at hundreds of courses around the world.  What do you think of the finishing hole here?  PETER FOWLER: It's a good, tough hole.  You've got to hit the fairway.  You can't, probably, get it on the green from the thick rough, carry it.  But if you did carry it on to the green, it would probably roll through over the back.  So it's a good, strong finishing hole.  It's quite long.  Like I said, the ball sits down on the fairway.  So it's not sitting up like a lot of the courses.  It's a good, strong finishing hole.  The last three are.  They're real rippers.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT