THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 26, 2013
Peter Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Out in 31 on the front nine today, it any particular part of your game responsible for that good scoring?   
PETER FOWLER:   No, it was pretty good all around.   I hit all the greens except for the 8th and managed to hole a bunker shot there, so that really sort of kept it going and then birdied the 9th straight up.   But it was really solid play, hit all the greens and all the fairways.   
   
 Q.   How pleased with your round overall?   
PETER FOWLER:   Very pleased.   Played very solid, so if I keep playing solid, I'm in the game all week.   But you know, I was really happy.  
   
 Q.   How much is this course examining the different aspects of the game?  
PETER FOWLER:   Well, it does a lot.   You've got to analyse, it's a little softer after the rain we've had, but it's still hard to work out how far it's going to run.   So it's difficult on the tee shots.   
   
 Q.   Does leading a major feel different to leading a regular event?   
PETER FOWLER:   Not really.   We separate ourselves from that and is stick to playing golf that's what we control.   I'd like to play well anywhere.   
   
 Q.   How do you reflect on a second round that started so wonderfully well like that?  
PETER FOWLER:   It was good throughout the whole day, which I was happy about.   Hit a lot of fairways and a lot of greens, and so I was rolling the putts pretty good.  
   
 Q.   And these are very pleasant weather conditions, but it's still challenging, isn't it?   
PETER FOWLER:   It's still a beast of a course, but when you play it in good weather conditions, like we've had today, just a lot of breeze, you know, it was good fun.  
   
 Q.   I know it's only the halfway stage, but are you conscious of a position on that board and maintaining the momentum?  
PETER FOWLER:   No, but I'm conscious of keep playing well, keeping my rhythm and keep doing what I can control.   You know, I've done that well, and I've made better each week and I'm happy.  
You're going to have to get up‑and‑down and hole some good putts for pars on a few holes around this golf course, and we prepared for that, and it was a nice way to finish.  
   
 Q.   How does a Senior Open compare to a regular senior championship?   
PETER FOWLER:   Well, it's great here, because we've got all the big stars coming from America and all around the world, Japan and Asia, and it's great that we can have a tournament this big that will attract all these big stars.   
You know, we don't often play together.   We are playing these different tours, Champions Tour and we have got the two here in Europe and they have got one in Japan, but this is the one that brings them all together.   It would be great if we could have more of these.  
   
 Q.   While it's always still competitive in the senior circuit, certainly some of the feeling is that you get to socialize a bit more and you get to have a nice little chinwag after the rounds.   Is that still present at a Major Championship like this?  
PETER FOWLER:   Yeah, absolutely, got to have friends and that.   We are a little more chilled out than we when we were younger, but we are more realistic and don't overreact to things like we used to, and it's really playing off.  
   
 Q.   Any stories to tell about out in Southport?  
PETER FOWLER:   No, a few good stories around the world but they are for another day.  
   
 Q.   We saw at Muirfield last week that these courses in good weather are not necessarily pushovers, are they.   
PETER FOWLER:   Well, you can control the ball better.   When it's blowing hard, you get some rain and that, it's harder to control your ball.   So you've got to make the most of good weather conditions.   
I played here in 2008 and it was just diabolical.   Played 16 holes in the wind and the rain, at 6.30 in the morning was just horrible stuff.   Got to make the most of this, much better.  
   
 Q.   Hard to believe it's the same place, isn't it?  
PETER FOWLER:   That's right.   You couldn't believe how bad it was but this weather is great.   I live in Auckland, New Zealand, and we get six months of this good weather just like this, so it was good fun.  
   
 Q.   Is it easy being an Australian in this country at the moment?  
PETER FOWLER:   No, it's tough with the cricket going on.   But I know the boys work hard at their game and they are proud and they will fight back.  
   
 Q.   You haven't given up on them?  
PETER FOWLER:   Absolutely not, mate.  
   
 Q.   Good tradition of Australian success around here.   
PETER FOWLER:   Ian Baker‑Finch and Mike Harwood finished second in'91.   It's a shame Mike couldn't be here this week, he's having elbow surgery, so he's out for a few months.  
   
 Q.   Have you spoken to him much about his memories here?   
PETER FOWLER:   No, but I know he played really good.   He was Top‑10 player in the world back then, and you know, he finished second there but he won the British PGA and The European Open when Seve was right at the top of his game.   He won the Volvo Masters all in the space of a year or two around that time of The Open here.   He was a superstar then.   
Great friend of mine, a shame he couldn't be here.   I know he would love to be here playing Birkdale.   This was always special to him.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT