BREEDERS' CUP WORLD CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 25, 2003
Pascal Bary
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PASCAL BARY:  Well, she's something special.  Even at 2 years old she was she was great.  She's a super horse.  She has the ability to wait and to finish very, very fast.  Even you can send her to Ireland, to England, to France, to America, and she does the job every time.  She's fantastic.  Today, to come here and to run with all those horses, it was the sun, it was the track, quite awful for a French horse.  And the traveling was 24 hours.  And to be able to do that is fantastic.  She's fantastic. 

PASCAL BARY:  She had a bad post too.

PASCAL BARY:  She's done it two or three times.  I don't think she's a bad -- she knows the game.  She wants to fight.  Even with people. 

PASCAL BARY:  I think so.  I think it's much more difficult to win here.  It's fantastic to come here, because you have the sun, you have the sea, the race track is fantastic.  The mountains behind, it's lovely.  But for the horses, it's very, very difficult. 

PASCAL BARY:  One of the greats. 


Q.   Can you talk about the decision to use an American rider? 

PASCAL BARY:  I think that if you go to Chicago, if you go to Belmont, maybe you can use a French jockey.  Here it's much better to have a -- if you can get the best American jockey on an American track, you must do it, I think.  And I think today I think I'm right. 

Q.   Will she stay in training next season? 

PASCAL BARY:  We have to speak with the family, but I think that she will. 

Q.   The same program for her next year? 

PASCAL BARY:  If she stays in training, we will try to be ready for August, come back for the mile and have some success in Texas.  How is the weather in Texas? 

Q.   Hot. 

PASCAL BARY:  Hot? 

Q.   You said a couple of days ago that you thought she would really like the ground here, she would get over the top of the ground.  And it looks like you were right.

PASCAL BARY:  Yesterday morning she went on the grass to do a bit more than a canter.  And I walked on the track.  It's odd.  You have little grass, so it's very comfortable for the horses.  And for this kind of horse, we have a very good traction for her. 

Q.   Did you learn anything with DOMEDRIVER's win last year that helped you prep for this race? 

PASCAL BARY:  I think DOMEDRIVER was four or five races last year before to come here.  And we had three races in Spain and only one in August before to come here.  You have to come with horses a bit fresh, not too tired.  In France we run for fun, you know, so horses must be  -- you must come to the race with an objective, and to be ready for that.  

PASCAL BARY:  Miesque is the grandmother of this filly.  And one possibility was working for the Niarchos family.  You always try to make some speed.  To win the speed.  So I think the Niarchos family has much more horses for the mile than the one mile and a half.  And that was the one in Spain there. 

Q.   What was going through your mind around the 3/8ths pole and turning for home and also what was your strategy going into the race? 

PASCAL BARY:  I just spoke with Mr.  Bailey yesterday night and we chose him because he's one of the best American jockeys and he knows the track much better than me.  I just told him that the filly is going to finish very, very fast.  If he can save some ground and keep her back, that's all.  And he did the job perfect.  We spoke for five minutes and it was very easy. 

Q.   Your horse did all the talking necessary today.  Congratulations on a terrific victory, an encore victory for you personally and for the owners and obviously a special filly.  Best of luck to you and her in the future. 

PASCAL BARY:  Thank you very much.  And I hope she will be back next year. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT