NCAA WOMEN'S FINAL FOUR
March 30, 2000
Helen Darling
Andrea Garner
Rene Portland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Your team played very well last week, but how would your team be without Helen
running the point?

ANDREA GARNER: Helen brings a lot to the team, her experience and leadership is
definitely something that we have to our advantage. Our backup pointguard is only a
freshman; so without Helen, you know, we could probably be a little helter-skelter
sometimes, but Helen really comes down and gets us going. 

Q. Helen, can you compare and contrast your game with Sue Bird's? 

HELEN DARLING: I really can't -- I really can't do that right now. We haven't watched a
lot of film on them yet. We'll probably watch a lot of film today and tomorrow. I know
she's a great guard, excellent shooter. That's all I really know about her right now.

Q. Can you talk about how big this is for the school, being here for the first time? 

ANDREA GARNER: It takes our program to another level. I know it probably helps with
recruiting and everything. But our program has never been there and it's great to see this
finally get to a point that a lot of great coaches have already been to. It's great for
our coach and great for us as seniors. And personally to be back here my senior year, back
where I come from is great for me, also. 

Q. Could you talk about how much this team has grown since the first Connecticut
matchup and what you expect tomorrow night from them? 

HELEN DARLING: I think we're a different team from earlier in the season. We're
executing plays a lot better our defense has picked up. We've added a lot of different
defenses and I just think going into this tournament, a lot of us had a lot more
confidence than we did in the first game, and I just think it's going to be a great game. 

Q. If both players could address this, how do you handle the idea that there's a lot of
attention and focus and expectation on a UCONN Tennessee matchup, when obviously you are
standing in the way, and how do you -- do you use that to your advantage, is it a
disadvantage?

HELEN DARLING: I really don't think about that. I just try to focus on one game at a
time and I just hope that the teams aren't looking past us. We are a great team and we
came here to win it just like everyone else is here to do. And so I just hope that we can
come out and give them a good game. 
ANDREA GARNER: I haven't heard too much about -- I don't read too much about the
matchups as far as UCONN and Tennessee goes. I know we're not going to let them get their
easily. We have a game plan and we plan to execute it, and hopefully we'll be the one to
move on and advance to the championship game. 

Q. Did you make a conscious effort to try to elevate your play in postseason in the
NCAA Tournament? 

HELEN DARLING: I just think earlier in the year, I think I did a great job of creating
for my teammates, and so when teams scouted me, I don't think they knew I can score or
what I was able to do, and so a lot of teams left me open and dared me to shoot it, and I
think I've worked all summer and even during the year on my jump shot, and when teams
don't play me, I try to really kill them with that, and I'm just taking what teams give
me.

Q. What do you remember about the first game against Connecticut, for the players? 

HELEN DARLING: I remember a lot of transition. They ran very well. And the rebounding
situation, they did an excellent job on the boards. And we did a great job of boxing out. 

Q. I know that you say that you haven't completely prepared yet for Connecticut, you
are still in the process, but based on your experience, what makes Sue Bird so dangerous? 

ANDREA GARNER: I think her ability to shoot the 3, you know, out of transition or just
spotting up I think makes her very dangerous. Like pointguards you can back off and play
penetration because you know they are looking for a pass, but she can make the shot so I
think that's what makes her a great pointguard. 

Q. This being your first Final Four, can you just give us a sense of what the
atmosphere has been like for you when what it just feels like to be here? 

HELEN DARLING: For me, I think I'm still in shock a little bit. We came in and there
was a lot of people outside waiting for us and cheering for us, and I'm just really happy
and excited that we were able to play as well as we have to make it here, and I'm just
looking forward to what else the Final Four brings. 
ANDREA GARNER: We had a chance to go over to my family's house last night for dinner,
and the reception was great, and, I don't know we just had a great time and hopefully it
will just continue. 

Q. What does Helen do on and off the court? 

RENE PORTLAND: Same thing. She is pretty intense. She is a gamer. She plays with great
pride and even in practice off a hard day at school, you can tell in her face or the rest
of them that they might be a little tired or distracted, and she immediately puts it in to
games. And kids can tell at practice when I'm not happy with them. I'm very, very quiet
and she picks it up and will say, "come on, blue," and she will stop a drill and
huddle them, and she has permission to do that. She will kick butt right there, and at
that time I don't really listen to some of the words that are used and she proceeds to get
everybody moving for me. Helen is the nice one. She's the peacemaker and very -- cuts it
to the chase sometimes. So the two of them are I think a good combination. Off the court,
Helen is involved in everything that we're involved in. We do a lot of work with Easter
Seals with therapeutic horseback riding for children. She's very involved with that. We
have a program with -- where the student athletes are involved with our schools in the
area and she's right in the front line. We have a little kids booster club that chants
H-E-L-E-N all the time, so she is a great role model to those kids. And that's probably
the things that she likes the best being around them. 

Q. After the last UCONN game, you were quoted as saying that you killed UCONN inside
and if there was a weakness on their team it's their post players. Can you just comment on
that? 

RENE PORTLAND: Well I'm not sure I was quoted correctly, considering what I'm dealing
with. I think we did a very good job of attacking the post area. We had a lot of high-low
combinations. I think in that game. They had an injury if that position so we were able to
take advantage of that. That is an area with that we were very pleased with that we were
offensively able to do some things. Killed is not the word, because we lost, but I felt
that was an area that once we got started after it was not 17-4, that is where we got the
area started. 

Q. Coach, what is it about Philadelphia, why is it such a hotbed for coaches? 

RENE PORTLAND: Men and women alike. I don't know, maybe it's because we start so early
here. I can remember being involved at our parish in third grade; they had us all playing
basketball. There was a lot of participation in the CYO leagues, and I don't know if we're
all Catholic, but there's why I got started, 1 of 7 kids. Mom and dad made us all go
through that program, though high school and through college. And I think in my time back
in college, I can remember walking from St. Joes, dribbling the basketball, that was a big
thing to be part of the men's program of the big five, certainly our experience that we
had at Immaculata. But you did it all the time, CYO basketball was around us all the time
in all this area. 

Q. Do you think at all that you'll have a home court tomorrow night when you play UCONN
the fact that you are Penn State and we are in Pennsylvania? 

RENE PORTLAND: Well I'm 1 of 7 and my husband is 1 of 6; so that helps a lot right
here. There's so many connections in this Final Four to Philadelphia. So I'm sure
Shawnetta have her family in full force. I think if you were just going to buy a ticket to
go to the Final Four and you lived in this area, even without Penn State being in it,
maybe you bought a ticket and now you can identify to us. And that's what we're hoping to
people can identify to us, because the ticket was hard to get where before we even got
here. So we're hoping that Penn State alumni bought them up before they even knew we were
coming. 

Q. What challenges does Sue Bird present to your team? 

RENE PORTLAND: You must be a Sue Bird fab fan. She is playing with a calmness about
herself right now. Most players when they get hurt, the year they come back is
transitional for them and she's passed the transitional stage. I felt that's what hurt the
most when we played them down in Florida. You're always going to have Shea and Swin doing
their thing, but she really has a peace about her. You can't leave her; find her in
transition. If you look at our scouting report that's the first thing, find her in
transition because she makes things happen. If we leave her to go jab at somebody else,
she's going to hit the 3, but she's capable of penetrating. But she has great respect from
Geno. I think when coach loves their pointguard, the pointguard knows it and you can see
that Geno loves her, like I love Helen, and they just play with a spirit about them and
the team knows there's an incredible trust. That's the key that starts the engine; and she
certainly starts their engine. Now, is that high test, yes, that's high test but she
really gets the engine started. 

Q. What's the thing that Shea does best? 

RENE PORTLAND: She's so dangerous because she has an incredible nose to the ball.
Whether it's loose ball, rebound, getting herself to the basket, she gets herself to the
foul line probably more than anyone else, so that has to be a big key to keep her off the
foul line. She can hit the 3, but she wants to go hard and she's going to make you play
hard; she posts you up, she cuts across the lane, which is very dangerous in many of their
offenses. But Shea is an incredible competitor. There are times I this think she is pretty
protected, but I think she does know how to get the job done. 

Q. Geno was saying that Svetlana and Tamika are the best in the game. Can you talk
about what makes Svetlana unique or different? 

RENE PORTLAND: I had the opportunity to play against her -- I didn't play -- I coached
against her in the southern in the University World Game. She is very different when she
plays for her home team. She really blossoms here. I think incredible speed; she can play
some really good defense. But offensively, there's a pace about her that is really tough
to read, you know, she paces herself or she can go full speed and beat you off
penetration. She can hit the 3. I think, offensively, I think her development, if I saw
her during the summer, she is a whole different kid here. So she should be thrilled that
she's here. On this team you can't figure out who the X factor is because there's just so
many of them. 

Q. What's it mean to you to get here? You're the one who hasn't been here before. 

RENE PORTLAND: This is a very, very special team to me, obviously. To make this trip
even more unique, last night I stepped out on the floor to coach my first practice to get
ready for the final hour and I stood on Hawk Hill where I stood. I don't know if my
players understood that feeling, but my old AD stood at the door and I knew where
everything was. That's the gym I announced I was pregnant with my first daughter. I told
my team before I told my husband, to be quite honest. Going back to Hawk Hill was the
kickoff to the whole thing, and knowing that brothers and sisters are around the corner,
mom is in town right now it's really rewarding. To take this team, to take Penn State to
the Final Four is obviously -- and hopefully to a National Championship something that
when I signed on to this hectic way of life, that's what you want to do. So I'm glad I'm
get to go do what I want to do. 

Q. With the depth that Connecticut has, do you have to change your coaching style? Will
we see anything different from you tomorrow night?

RENE PORTLAND: You're not going to see a whole lot of difference. You might see a
different play on a bounce, but you're not going to see a whole big difference. They do
have incredible depth. Our players really have to know the differences between them, which
way is right. Our players are really going to be to be schooled on player personnel, where
they put people in their 2-2-1 press, who you pass over, who you dribble past. So I think
it's more homework on the player's part to know the player's personnel; so I think that's
probably the biggest change. Our coaching can't change. We have going to our horses. You
don't save anything and you certainly throw out everything on the floor. And if we get
ourselves in foul trouble like we did with Iowa, you pray that that kid goes in and plays
the same way she did that night. 

Q. Can you talk about the legacy of Cathy Rush? 

RENE PORTLAND: I'd love to talk about the legacy. There would be no Rene Portland in
basketball in there was no Cathy Rush. It is incredible to think that many of us that left
her are doing what we're doing. I get to be a mommy coach and she was a mommy coach, too.
And I remember Eddie and Michael running around that gym and jumping over Big Wheels and
her standing there drinking a cup of coffee because she was exhausted. But she was
organized before people were organized. She made us do double sessions before the world
thought about double sessions. I remember running springs because I was late for practice,
and that was 25 years ago and who really gave a crap and she did. We went to her home, to
me taught me how to mix it all together, to be a mommy coach, to be there for us, because
I always felt Kathy was there for me, but she as always there for her family. It was at a
time, just like we are -- sometimes women's basketball still takes the back seat. It was
in the jumper seat when she was coaching and she made us feel important. She made things
happen for us in Philadelphia. There was great media coverage. We got on national TV,
played in Madison Square Garden. She was quiet, gentle and I remember one time in practice
she yelled and we all just laughed because she never. There was a presence about her that
made us very proud and happy to be behind her and we never questioned a thing that Cathy
Rush did. We were very, very pleased that this is here for her. They are going to honor
her on Sunday and we will all be with her. We will be at the Hall of Fame when she finally
gets into it. And that's the lady that other than my mom and dad, she ranks right up
there. 

Q. Now that you're here, are you worried about distractions, with so many local
connections, with just the entire team and have there been distractions? 

RENE PORTLAND: We say a prayer before every one of our practices to ask that our
distractions leave our minds, and that's the only time I don't need distractions. In
practice and game time, I think we can do that. We are very fortunate to play in the
Big-10, where there's a lot of crowds, certainly on our campus there's a lot of things
hang towards us. I want the kids to enjoyed us. We went to Andrea's house last night. We
could have said we're tired and we want to go home, but I want them to be excited and I
want to point things out to them. It's almost like your wedding day. It's such a big day,
and sometimes the bride doesn't remember what it was. And I always tell you to remember
everything to try to remember everything and enjoy everything, and that's what I'm telling
my players. They are the brides right now, and to remember everything that's happening,
keep a smile on your face, take great pictures and when it's time to say I do, get to
work. 

Q. Coach Summitt was talking about building a fan base and marketing. What do smaller
programs need to do so sort of catch up to the bigger programs in that way? 

RENE PORTLAND: Money always helps. I think fund-raising is a big thing. A few years ago
we went on the ventures of Rene's List, which was a fund-raiser that we did at Penn State,
and it was just women's basketball and expanded to other women's sports. Got us on TV, our
public broadcasting system WPSX on campus does a super job putting us on , the Rene
Portland TV show. That exposure helped us, and it went on to volleyball, gymnastics and
we've been able to do those kinds of things with this program. The school disbanded Rene's
List because the athletic department, they saw an interest and that's very, very positive.
I think kids groups, booster group, our young kids club, we let the young kids in for
free. They don't drive and they don't have any money to eat, so they have to bring their
parents to those kinds of things and sit them together. In women's basketball, I think
families are a big fart of our demographics and we cater to the families we cater to the
schools. And I think you have to do giveaways, you really do. That's where the money is
going to come in. If you don't have money, you have to open your hearts. We do coaches
clinics at Penn State. We've made ourselves extremely available to everyone. The kids sign
autographs, sign the basketball; anything we can do to win the hearts of somebody, we're
going to do. And sometimes, it doesn't cost anything, just a smile on your face. Winning
helps, too. 

Q. I'd just like to ask you about the advantage that you may or may not have with the
experience of Helen Darling going against Sue Bird in her first year? Kara said that the
word freshman doesn't mean anything because of being in basketball so long, but do you
think an advantage with her experience?

RENE PORTLAND: I would hope that we have the advantages because of Helen's experience.
I think she's making terrific decisions and I think she's doing a terrific job for Penn
State. The last weekend she was challenged by Christy Sides as well as Jackson from
Louisiana Tech and that was the matchup, that was the write-up that was the challenge for
her. Helen doesn't play defensively the pointguard. We put her off on the two guard
because she is queen cheater. She is never in the right place, and if she ever left the
pointguard, I'd be having a heart attack; so tentatively she is our pointguard. She rose
to the occasion last weekend. It's going to be a wait-and-see thing, but she's very
intelligent and she's playing her best basketball yet.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT