PILOT PEN TENNIS PRESENTED BY SCHICK
August 23, 2007
Eleni Daniilidou
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  So what did you do on those match points to get through?   
 ELENI DANIILIDOU:  I mean, I think after five weeks I was the first time really lucky.  I mean, she did a double fault on -- when she was serving in the second match point on her serve.  It was during the rally.  I did a net roll and it went over to her side.   
 I think it was a little bit lucky, but I mean, I'm really fighting five weeks now and I've been -- I was sick the last two weeks.   
 So I'm hanging there and I really -- I mean, I enjoyed the match today.  I was a little bit lucky I have to say.   
  
  Q.  The third set just went through very easily.  Was she kind of down emotionally after that, do you think?   
 ELENI DANIILIDOU:  We had a very close tiebreak in the second set.  Yeah, I think we really played great tennis.  A lot of emotions.  The crowd was really supporting actually both of us.   
 I had from my side some Greek support.  It was really helping because I played a lot of matches the last couple of weeks so I had really to push myself.   
 And in third set I this I just played way more aggressive than her.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk a little bit about the tiebreak.  It was 10-8.   
 ELENI DANIILIDOU:  Yeah, I think she had also one match point and it was a great fight.  It was great points, long rallies.  So I was really happy with the way I played the second and third set.  The first set I was not focused at all and not moving good.   
 So suddenly 2-Love second set I just, you know, really start to hit the ball way better.  Suddenly I came really into the match and I serve pretty good in the top of my game, so it was really exciting.   
  
  Q.  Can you look forward to tomorrow?   
 ELENI DANIILIDOU:  Yeah, of course.  I mean, she's a great player and she's young.  She's really talented, so I'm going to go out and give my best.  And I mean, thanks God I have time to recover a little bit, but I think it's great to play a night match and really to have a good match.   
  
  Q.  She'll probably be just as tired as you are.  She's played seven matches in six days or six matches in six days or something like that.   
 ELENI DANIILIDOU:  I think from everyone when you go far into the tournament it's a lot with more a little bit feet and actually a lot of mental.  I think for sure she will be very hot to play against me.   
 We never played so it's really interesting match.  She's really good player so I have to keep it up, and I hope that I can have another positive result.   
  
  Q.  You said you got a little bit lucky today in your match.  How so?   
 ELENI DANIILIDOU:  Thanks to the God.  It was just a lucky two, three shots that suddenly, yeah, I was just more aggressive and that's natural.  It can happen both ways.  Last week in Toronto I had match point against Yan and she did two times actually net roll.   
 So it's part of the game and today was just from my side.   
  
  Q.  What game was that on?  Was it match point?   
 ELENI DANIILIDOU:  Against?   
  
  Q.  Today.   
 ELENI DANIILIDOU:  Today it was match point.  I think it was the second one.  So she was serving 40-15.  She did a double fault and after I did a net roll.  So as I said before, it can happen to both of us.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT