WIMBLEDON
June 21, 2005
Eleni Daniilidou
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Congratulations.  How does a player from Greece become such a good player on grass?

ELENI DANIILIDOU:  I mean, I don't know.  Coincidence.  But, I mean, it's I just feel pretty good and pretty confidence on grass.  It's my surface, and, I mean, it's pretty tough to beat Justine twice on grass, as I did two years before. 

Q.  What won you the match today? 

ELENI DANIILIDOU:  From my opinion, was little bit strange, the match, up and down from both sides.  First set I was a little bit lucky in the end.  I could even finish earlier the set.  But, I mean, tiebreaks, everything is 50/50.  I was really -- I was really focus.  Second set, I lost a little my concentration and, I mean, she played a little bit better and less unforced errors she did.  Third set, it was pretty exciting match, I think.  It was good level, third set.  Honest, it was a little bit tough with the wind there.  The wind was a little bit strange in the court.  We had -- I had also and she had also some frames and really easy unforced errors.  But, I mean, on grass is part of the game, I think.  You have really to go for it.  Sometimes you just miss easy shots.  And I was really in the end really focused, and of course I'm very happy. 

Q.  When you went out for the final game, I think a lot of people were expecting a very tense --

ELENI DANIILIDOU:  It was tense (smiling).

Q.  Two unforced errors, two double-faults.  Was it shocking?

ELENI DANIILIDOU:  I mean, I guess she had pressure.  I mean, I had also, even in the first set.  Justine is a great player, a great talent.  I mean, everyone can see she deserve to win French Open.  She's a great player.  But I think everyone is -- it just is shaky a little bit sometimes during the match.  I was the same in the second set a little bit.  I think it's really, for every player, pretty tough, especial mental in the tough situation.  I think today I was a little bit better on that.

Q.  But she made it nice and easy for you in the end, didn't she?

ELENI DANIILIDOU:  I was feeling great in the end.  I think she hurt also little bit her back.  That's what I saw little bit in her face.  But, I mean, I think just today I was better in the close situation than her. 

Q.  How big will this victory be in Greece?  Are you pretty well-known there? 

ELENI DANIILIDOU:  I had a lot of SMS and phone calls after the match.  I think everyone was really following my match on the Internet and on the TV also.  I mean, it's -- actually, tennis is not really famous in Greece.  It got famous a little bit more after the Olympics.  It was pretty -- everything raise up, they made new clubs, new tennis courts.  I mean, it was really better after the Olympics.  But, still, they are following me, and I think I feel pretty good that everyone is behind of me.  I don't feel pressure, that's pretty good.  And I just -- it's great feeling that there are people -- that they care about me.

Q.  Will this make you at least for now bigger than Philippoussis in Greece?

ELENI DANIILIDOU:  I mean, actually, they love him in Greece.  And, I mean, he's aware of the support in the Olympics.  Everyone was really -- was cheering for him.  Maybe one day he can play for Greece, I wish.  But, I mean, they just really like him also in Greece. 

Q.  Pete Sampras, because he has some Greek heritage, was he a popular figure like Philippoussis in Greece?

ELENI DANIILIDOU:  Mark is more popular, I think, because of his father.  My wish is to really play mixed doubles with him.  I hope so one day.

Q.  During the tiebreak, Justine appeared to be distracted by something.  She was pointing.  Did you notice, she was pointing at something and then she double-faulted after that. 

ELENI DANIILIDOU:  Yeah, I mean, I think it's probably the game.  Some people are getting exciting.  Actually, was my fitness coach, Lisa Austin, we just started working before -- after French Open.  I mean, just exciting and they was really happy for me.  I mean, I think she can handle the situation.  It's not the first time, even with sometimes the mobiles.  I think it's part of big courts.  There are a lot of people and just they're exciting. 

Q.  Didn't you have a pretty good comeback against Laura in Germany a couple of years ago?

ELENI DANIILIDOU:  Sorry? 

Q.  Granville. 

ELENI DANIILIDOU:  Yeah, we played once in Filderstadt.  It was in quallies last year, I think.

Q.  Weren't you behind in the third set?

ELENI DANIILIDOU:  It's true.  I was 4-2 down or something.  I mean, from my side, it's totally different match.  I have to play great tennis to beat her.  She likes grass.  She's very dangerous.  She played very good in Birmingham, the first tournament.  I have to go really confidence there.  I have to try my best.  I mean, I really have to enjoy it.  I said to myself actually that I had pretty tough draw for first round, to have Justine, and pretty tough draw in doubles.  And I just -- I just said to my coach, to both of them, that, "Let's enjoy the Wimbledon this year, and just really go out there and really try the best and enjoy the moment."  And that's what I did today.  I was very happy to be in the court. 

Q.  Many people believe that Justine was the favorite to even win here.  Did you believe that as well before the match? 

ELENI DANIILIDOU:  Actually, she's a top player, that she can win any Grand Slam, she can win any tournament.  She's very dangerous also on grass.  I was just -- I was really happy to play with her.  I feel confidence right now.  I lost a little bit a lot of matches before a few months.  I had injuries.  As I said before, I just said, "Let's go for it," and really try my best.  And I'm just very happy that, okay, in the end I won the match.  But she's a great player. 

Q.  When are you going to ask Flipper to play mixed doubles? 

ELENI DANIILIDOU:  Sorry? 

Q.  Flipper, Philippoussis?

ELENI DANIILIDOU:  I have to talk to him.  I don't know if he wants.  I think before I finish my career, I would love to play with him.

Q.  Is your injury going to be a concern for the next round? 

ELENI DANIILIDOU:  Yeah, I think it was just pretty tight, my left calf.  That's why I had the physio.  I didn't want to risk anything, even for this match.  I was really want to finish and really be 100% on the court.  At that moment, I felt much better after the treatment, I mean the physio that I had.  I gonna be okay.  I have one more day.  It's good that I have a day off tomorrow.  It's pretty good. 

Q.  Can you correctly pronounce your last name for us. 

ELENI DANIILIDOU:  It's easy.  It's Daniilidou.

Q.  It's easy for you. 

ELENI DANIILIDOU:  I think it's easy for you guys also (smiling). 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT