U.S. SENIOR OPEN
June 28, 2019
Mark Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Another solid round of golf.  Can you talk about things you did well?  
MARK BROWN: Actually, I struck the ball a little bit better today.  My iron shots weren't as close today, but didn't get into a whole lot of trouble out there today.  Kind of protected a little bit, making the big mistakes, kind of kept them short of the greens, if anything, playing to the front number.   
But I had a couple putts that I just didn't have the right speed for the middle of the round, but I made a bunch of four- and five- and six-footers to save pars, and then one three-putt.  But overall the ball-striking was great.   
 Q.  Firming up?  
MARK BROWN: I wouldn't say it's firming up yet, no, no.  It's still the way it's been the first three days.   
 Q.  What other challenges were there out there?  The hole locations a little tougher?  
MARK BROWN: I felt like some pins were cut in some funny spots where you really, really had to pay attention where you were.  No. 10, for instance, was playing 10 feet of break.  Hole No. 1, I hit it a little long.  I played 20 feet of break.  I mean, the green is only 20 yards wide.  So you've got to hit it in the right locations out here.   
But the greens are still perfect.  Putting great.  I didn't know I had 25 putts yesterday.  I probably had 25 or 26 again today, even with a couple three-putts.  But overall it was fun out there.   
 Q.  What's the weekend look like for you?  You're semi-lurking, I guess.  
MARK BROWN: Yeah, these guys are quite a bit ahead of me, but the golf course sets up perfect for me.  I just need to get a few going, shoot a few under, 4- or 5-under, 6-under out there and kind of get back into it hopefully.   
 Q.  Yesterday you said the course really fits your eye.  How do you mean that?  Are you more of a drawer of the ball or --  
MARK BROWN: No, I just -- I just like to be able to stand up there and hit the ball and know I'm going to find the ball, and out here you can do that.  There's not a whole lot of out of bounds out here, not a whole lot of penalty areas out there.   
But you can kind of swing at it out here, which is good.  Sometimes it kind of takes it out of my hands where I have to hit my driving iron just to get myself in play, but I'm still leaving myself -- we had 150 yards, 140 yards in all day.  That's a number I have to score at, and you've just got to be careful.  You can't be too greedy out here.  Even from 140 yards you want to hit it close.   
I had 150 downwind on 18 and I tried to hit it right at the pin, and I hit it a little over.  Again, I got up-and-down.  But that's what I'm talking about.  You've got to be pretty precise with your irons.   
 Q.  I saw you led the field in driving distance.  Are you having to dial back some stuff?  
MARK BROWN: A little bit, yeah.  I hit two good ones on the driving holes today, so I'd be surprised if I wasn't leading that again.  I hit a good one on 18 about 330, I think.  So yeah, my driving iron is like my fairway finder; it gets out there anywhere from 260 to 280, so I'm using that quite a bit out there.   
But the driver, like I said, when it's open and I know I'm going to find it, I'm going ahead and stepping on that driver, and like I said, it's leaving me wedges, short wedges into these holes, which is great.  You've just got to be careful.  You can't be too greedy out here.   
 Q.  Have you always had some good power?  
MARK BROWN: Yeah, from -- played baseball in college, and yeah, my lower half played hockey.  Yeah, I've been hitting it pretty long for a long time.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT