JOHNNIE WALKER CLASSIC
March 2, 2008
Mark Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Congratulations on a great win, how was it out there?   
 MARK BROWN:  It wasn't easy. Haven't experienced it last week, I had a one shot lead going into last week, I really played well in the last round. I thought if I could play solid again, I would have a shot. I played terrible on the front side. I don't think I hit a fairway or green and got to the 10th and said to myself let's have a solid nine holes and the birdies started falling. The rest is a dream.   
  
  Q.  What does it mean to you to gain exemption in Europe?   
 MARK BROWN:  It means a lot. I've been struggling for a long time now. It's good to have the security of a major tour. Asia is fantastic and is a great tour and is coming up as well but I'll sit down in a week or so and think about it and what has been going it. It's been going on too fast.   
  
  Q. Tell us about your thoughts when the ball was in the air on the 18th?   
 MARK BROWN:  It's the worst shot I've hit since I was 14! Totally out of the heel and so thin and I thought it was completely in the water. It couldn't have gone anywhere else. But luckily I had plenty of club with a six iron and it must have just scraped over. It was quite a relief after that.   
  
  Q. What are your plans now? Will you play in Europe?   
 MARK BROWN:  I would really love to. Asia has been so fantastic for me the last year and a half. The Asian Tour has been a great stepping for me coming back into the game and I love to support them as well. So hopefully, we'll play a bit of both. I haven't thought about it.   
  
  Q.  What does it mean to have your name on the list?   
 MARK BROWN:  Incredible. It's amazing to have my name there. I've worked extremely hard for this. It's a dream come true.   
  
  Q. How much does it mean to win like this?   
 MARK BROWN:  It's huge you know. I played for eight to nine years and first time round, I wasn't good enough physically and mentally. I worked for three years and to come back, I've worked really hard the last year and half and my coach Mal Tongue has been a tremendous support in my career. It's been a blur in the last two weeks.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT