JOHNNIE WALKER CLASSIC
March 1, 2008
Mark Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  We have Mark Brown here, Mark, fantastic round, 8-under par, and leader in the clubhouse right now.   
 MARK BROWN:  Yeah, really pleased.  Started off this morning with no real pressure and just felt I can shoot a really good round, I could get into contention and that happened.   
 CHUAH CHOO CHIANG: Just a carry from last week's winning form?   
 MARK BROWN: It could be, there must be something about India.   
 CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  Just talk us through the round, eagles, one on 9 and 18, highlights of the day.   
 MARK BROWN:  They were. 9, I had not been going for the green all week and I had a 3-wood into the green and holed an outrageous putt, 50 feet long and that was pretty fortunate.   
 18 I hit a drive and a 7-iron to about 12 feet and holed the putt.   
  
  Q. A sense of déjà vu being in contention for the second straight week?   
 MARK BROWN:  Yes, but I'm not sure I'll be leading by the end of today.  There are some good players out here with a few holes to go.  I'll be close which is what I wanted.   
 Yeah, I think last week certainly helped the way I'll be feeling tomorrow and the way I approach it.  Certainly helps to play in a lot of tournaments, this is my fourth in a raow and I'm pretty comfortable with my game at the moment and just enjoying the golf.   
  
  Q.  At one point in your career you became a bit fed up with golf and came away from the golf.  What encouraged you to come back, and why do you seem to be playing so well at the moment?   
 MARK BROWN:  I knew I had the ability but I just didn't show it the first time round. Basically I just wasn't good enough and like you said, I gave it up for three years and worked. And just had an itching to start playing again and had a fantastic golf coach in Mal Tongue, and more than anything that encouraged me to come back because I knew what he was teaching was simple and correct and it would hold up under pressure and hopefully that going to be the case.   
  
  Q.  What is it that you always play well here?   
 MARK BROWN:  Not sure.  Got a very good caddie here.  I like the climate.  It nice and dry and the weather has been fantastic.  The caddie is reading the putts well. I'm just really comfortable here.  I have a good time every time I come to Delhi, so just very comfortable. Caddie's name is Muna, he's from DGC.   
  
  Q.  Could you give us an idea of how are the greens today?   
 MARK BROWN:  Well, I think the greens are quite tricky to read.  Just a little bit of grain in them and grain is not consistently in one direction.  You can go from having a downgrain putt to into the grain all in 20 feet and it makes it tricky.   
 At the same time, if you get the ball started on-line, they are rolling pretty true and today with less players out there, they are rolling really well.   
 CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  Will you be able to take your experience from last week into tomorrow's final round?   
 MARK BROWN:  Yeah, that win last week took pressure off being on the Asian Tour.  It's been really quite a relaxing week so far.  So tomorrow, again, I have nothing to lose.  I'd love to win obviously, so just see how we go.   
  
  Q.  Who do you see as the biggest threat?   
 MARK BROWN:  I haven't looked at the leaderboard, but obviously you have Vijay, and Shiv Kapur playing well in his home country, so I really haven't had a close look.  Somebody can go out tomorrow and shoot a round like I did today and overtake everybody, so who knows.   
  
  Q.  I read that you beat Tiger Woods once; do you remember that?   
 MARK BROWN:  I played the Eisenhower Trophy in 1994 and came fourth in the individual.  Yeah, I did, but didn't really mean anything then or now, long time ago.   
 CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  Mark, well done again, thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT