U.S. SENIOR OPEN
June 27, 2019
Mark Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Your card today, good ball-striking or good putting?  What was the reason?
MARK BROWN: Some good ball-striking, mostly good putting.  Putting was really great again.  I made a couple big ones.  The last hole I just made a 35-, 40-footer, and I holed one out of the bunker on my second to last hole.  So it was a good finish, it was going good, and I just had a little hiccup on the long par-3.
Q. Course conditions from yesterday to today after the rain, was the difference something you could see or feel?
MARK BROWN: I don't think so.  I think it played similar the last two practice round days we played.  I thought the greens were perfect, good speed.  Pin locations weren't too crazy.  So USGA did a great job today.
Q. The birdies that you made, were any of them really, really tight?  Did you hit it close?
MARK BROWN: Par-3 over here, 12, I hit it in there like two feet.  That was pretty close.  And par-5 I two-putted for another birdie.  But made quite a few good putts.
Q. Looking at the leaderboard when you started, did you feel like there was something in your game today that was going to get you to 4?
MARK BROWN: The golf course suits my eye really well.  There's room to drive it.  You really have to be precise with your irons, though.  And I've had good practice sessions the last couple days.
So looking forward to going.  1:27 start, so I was kind of sitting around all morning.  But glad to getting it over today and looking forward to starting up again tomorrow.
Q. What did you learn from your first U.S. Senior Open experience that helped you this time around?
MARK BROWN: I think I can hit it with these guys.  It's just a matter of getting out here a little more often and being in this situation and having a good finish up at the Senior PGA a month ago up at the Oak Hill, I came in top 21, just kind of solidified what I'm doing.
The golf course really suits my eye.  It's beautiful out here.  You can make some big numbers.  So far I'm happy with it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT