KITCHENAID SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2019
Mark Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You were really handling it well with the putter.  I think that's what held it together for you.  Am I right?  
MARK BROWN: I putted probably one of the best putting rounds I had in my life.  Yeah, everything I looked at went in.  It was amazing.  I hit it like a 15-handicapper.  And I just kept making putts after putts and squeezed a couple birdies in when I got lucky.  And it was just amazing.  It really was.   
 Q.  What happened on 15?  
MARK BROWN: I was just trying to hit a little cut 8-iron in there, and I started too far left and it kind of rode the wind.  So I was trying to either hit in the left front bunker or the left side of the green.  Tried to chip 8, and all week we're having not too many chips.  They've been full swings pretty much.  But if I had to do that over, I'd like to try that.   
And then I bogeyed 16 with -- right in the middle of the fairway.  It was 123 yards, and I hit my gap wedge 137 in the air, ended up three-putting that one.  But then that great par on 17, great par on 18.  So it all evens out.   
 Q.  This course is not really a mystery, is it?  It's right in front of you, and you just have to go and play it.  You're used to tough courses.  
MARK BROWN: Yeah, it's fair.  When you hit the ball on the fairway, you can kind of shoot at pins.  But it really makes you think if you're in the rough, if you really want to try and -- where you want to miss it, really, and it's really where you miss it.   
And when I did miss it today, everything was on the right side and the right bunkers.  I think my bunker percentage was 100 percent this week.  I get up-and-down every time.  So I was kind of aiming for bunkers.  So, yeah, it's just miss in the right spot, make a few putts.  And the greens are perfect.   
 Q.  Were you coming in this week with any success prior to that, any particular way?  
MARK BROWN: No, I actually started using this, that Blast Motion thing on my putter this week and just got my rhythm back.   
 Q.  Last Motion?  
MARK BROWN: Yeah, it's called Blast Motion.  And it just got my timing and my rhythm back.   
 Q.  Is it a training device?  
MARK BROWN: Yeah, it's a training device.  Just a rhythm, kind of gives you tempo as far as your backstroke and your forward stroke.  And mine's been off.  And once I get back on that thing and I get the right rhythm, that's all I kind of thought about all day.  Wasn't really thinking about (indiscernible) and I just keep the rhythm.   
 Q.  Does it come back to those days when you're feeling -- when you're playing well at Bethpage, all those state opens?  
MARK BROWN: Exactly, yeah.  Yeah, it really was.  Just kind of in the moment.  You don't really feel much.  You just kind of go through the routine, and it felt great seeing these balls go in today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT