UBS HONG KONG OPEN
November 19, 2010
Mark Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  Second Round 69. 9-Under Total. 131

 Q. And you can reflect on your second round. 
 MARK BROWN: Yeah, I got off to a nice start. I felt pretty good early and then just got myself into a pickle in the middle of the round. I made three bogeys in a row, and one much those, the last of those was about a 12-footer for bogey, which I holed, which really settled me down and parred 9 and birdied 10 and I was back on an even keel after that.

 Q. Sounds like you got out of that pickle very nicely?
 MARK BROWN: Just struggled with my swing today and we had the easiest conditions and wasn't really playing well enough to take advantage of that. So it was a bit of a battle all day. Reasonably pleased. Probably 69 probably reflects how I played.

 Q. Well we know how fickle this game is, it's always very difficult to put together two very low rounds back-to-back but did your mind change at the start of the day when you found yourself in that lovely position at the top? 
 MARK BROWN: Not really, I just wanted to play reasonably solidly this morning but like I said my swing didn't allow it and felt like I was battling all day. When it's like that, you're just trying to cling on and not do too much damage. So to finish 1-under was probably a good result.

 Q. Can be frustrating the best of times, but knowing what you shot the previous day, presumably that makes it even worse?
 MARK BROWN: Feels like I hit 90 today actually. And I still don't know why the reason is that nobody can really follow-up a low round with another one. 
 So one day it seems like an easy game and the next day it seems the hardest game in the world to play.

 Q. Come what may, you're in a terrific position?
 MARK BROWN: Yeah, I'm in a good spot. Going to go to the range and try and fix a couple of things and come out tomorrow.

 Q. You do know that if that's the worst round of the week, hey, not bad at all?
 MARK BROWN: I'll be very happy. I'll enjoy my beer on Sunday if that's the case. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT