CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: FLORIDA STATE VS MICHIGAN
December 28, 2016
Freddie Stevenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Who does the best Jimbo Fisher impression on your team?
FREDDIE STEVENSON: I don't know.  I think a lot of guys can do it pretty well.
Q. Now you're facing a team that has one of the highest profile coaches in the nation in Jim Harbaugh.  He has a lot of followers on Twitter.  What's your first thought when you think of Jim Harbaugh?
FREDDIE STEVENSON: I mean, I just think of him when he was with the 49ers, good coach, gets his players prepared.  He's going to have his guys ready.
Q. What's going to be the biggest challenge your team faces against Michigan's defense?
FREDDIE STEVENSON: They've got pretty good defensive front.  The guys are pretty big, so we've got to control those guys, keep them in check.  I know they're going to try to knock the ball down and things like that, and we've got to be physical in the run game because I know that's what they want to come out and do and be physical, so we've got to dominate that part of the game.
Q. Talk about the ratios of touches to touchdowns you have.  Do you feel like you've found a knack for getting across the goal line?
FREDDIE STEVENSON: Yeah, because I don't -- me personally, I think about it like I don't know how many more touches I'm going to get, so every time I get the ball, I'm trying to score.
Q. Is it kind of like I've got to strike when I've got the opportunity?
FREDDIE STEVENSON: Yeah, and if I do that, more touches will come.  But this year I had a lot more touches than I had in the past, just because I'm taking advantage of opportunities.  I know in the past years they would give me opportunities and I wouldn't take advantage of them, so that's what my touches were all about.
Q. Has it opened up because of that a little bit more you?
FREDDIE STEVENSON: Uh-huh.
Q. Coach was saying that it's hard to figure out what a defense can do with you because like we were talking about yesterday, not many teams use fullbacks these days.  Does it make it difficult to know how you're going to get played when you don't watch the film and you don't get to see a whole lot of plays like the things you're going to be running?
FREDDIE STEVENSON: Sometimes, but I know some teams they play and use the fullback, but they just use him as blocking and things like that, so I don't know how they'll play me in different aspects just because I'm so versatile at the position, so it was kind of unpredictable.
Q. Is that a disadvantage or an advantage?
FREDDIE STEVENSON: That's an advantage I feel like because a lot of teams don't know how to account for the fullback.  When you're able to make plays at the fullback position, that really can help your offense.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT