NEDBANK GOLF CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY GARY PLAYER
November 17, 2019
Zander Lombard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Not the finish you wanted but just take us through the day.
ZANDER LOMBARD: Just can't put it in words. I felt like I really played well. The best I felt the whole week with my game but like this game and golf course, it's brutal and it took its toll on me today.
But six lipouts and a poor decision counted up to 5-over par.
Q. Positives from it, you put yourself in a position to win and you know you can do that at the highest level?
ZANDER LOMBARD: Absolutely. My game feels amazing. It's putting four days together and I feel like I've matured a lot in the last six, seven months. A win's got to go around the corner. Keep doing what I'm doing and it might be a good thing that I get next week off, and start a fresh season at Leopard Creek and really going to try and win it.
Q. Talk about, do you think being in the final group, just what went bad today?
ZANDER LOMBARD: I don't know. Just the putts didn't go in. It's as simple as that. Like I said to my caddie, I feel so good over the putts and confident and like I'm going to make everything but it didn't happen. That's the game. I think even Louis said to me, you know played great, unlucky today. That's what it was. I'm going to put it down to experience and make the best of it and come back stronger.
Q. How can you improve from today?
ZANDER LOMBARD: Don't really know. To be honest, I don't know really what happened out there. Like I said, I felt really good and I've played well. I know it's a bigger picture, a Top-10 in a Rolex Series Event and a lot of positives to take out into the next season and I'm definitely going to come back stronger.
Q. Just how tough was the wind today? Seemed to have picked up a bit. Obviously made distance control really tough?
ZANDER LOMBARD: It was really tough to get a ball close today. With the breeze, with the high altitude, you're not used to that much wind, so if you hit a really good shot it doesn't affect it but if you hit just a little miss, it affects it a lot. It was really tough to know when you're going to pure it or not. It made it tricky, but all props to Tommy Fleetwood and Kinhult, just broke the course up.
Q. Challenging for Africa's major on a Sunday?
ZANDER LOMBARD: Yeah, me and Louie really enjoyed it. Too bad we couldn't pull through but there's always next year and coming back.
Q. Your debut overall, are you thrilled? What do you think about the expectation and now going forward, you're going to be someone to watch out for?
ZANDER LOMBARD: Absolutely I feel like that. It's been an amazing week. The crowds are all backing me and I've been in the lead for two days. So as I debut at Sun City, which is definitely one of the tougher golf courses in South Africa, or Africa I want to say, it's nice to know that I can compete with the big guys on a big golf course.
Like I said again, a lot of positives into the next season. Keep an eye on me.
Q. Can you put any pressure on to yourself?
ZANDER LOMBARD: Yeah, I think expectations, we all have them and we want to live up to them but sometimes you just have got to forget about it and play the cliché shot-for-shot.
But again, like I say, just an amazing week and we'll see what next week has in store.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT