THE 147TH OPEN
July 20, 2018
Zander Lombard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So how did it feel?  Are you relieved?  Did you see your name on top of the leaderboard today?
ZANDER LOMBARD: Yeah, it was pretty cool.  I sort of glanced at the leaderboard every now and then.  Didn't think much of it.  Yeah, it's an amazing experience being up in the fight, in the thick of things.  It's really bunched up there.  Anything can happen on the weekend.
Q. What are your feelings coming off, obviously besides the bogeys.
ZANDER LOMBARD: It's been such a long day.  Sleeping in till 9:00.  Waiting for seven to ten hours to tee off.  It's a long and draining day.  Just finished quarter to 9:00.  I got really tired out there the last couple holes, but I think I managed my emotions well and just sucks that birdie putt lipped out on 18.  But it's still a solid round.  I think the level was the worst I was going to shoot out there.  I was really solid out there.  Looking forward to the weekend in contention.
Q. Can you believe the position you're in?  You haven't had the greatest season.  Can you believe the position you're in?
ZANDER LOMBARD: Like I said before, it's been six months of really hard work, and it's really starting to come together.  All the aspects of the game, from mentally down to putting.  It's really been -- it's been a hard season, but I just felt like I've come through the slumps pretty good.  The hard work I've put in not playing my best or scoring my best that I can.  It's just nice that I can get a bit of trust in the process.
Q. And what was the problem early in the season when you had that missed cuts?  Was it a particular thing, or was it just --
ZANDER LOMBARD: It wasn't a particular thing.  It was just an all around sort of mentality on how I practised and how I did things.  I started doing things a bit more professionally, and I think it's really paying off six months later.
Q. Are you of the mindset that you can actually win this thing?
ZANDER LOMBARD: Absolutely.
Q. Or do you always think like that?
ZANDER LOMBARD: Absolutely.  Anything can happen out there.  I feel like my game's in a really good spot, and I really feel like I can compete in it.  I've been in and out of the leads in my career in big events.  Not in majors yet, but it's just a tournament with bigger stands.
Yeah, I'm really looking forward to competing and putting my best golf out there.
Q. Do you take some confidence from the fact you had a bad tournament, cut finishing low down the field, or continuing like you did at the Irish Open and then here at The Open?
ZANDER LOMBARD: Yeah, I can take a massive confidence from it.  It's really been a great experience, being in the lead and having everyone around to support you.  I'm just soaking it all up and ready to take it on the weekend.
Q. It's been quite a month for South African golfers with the Junior Open and the British Amateurs.
ZANDER LOMBARD: Absolutely.
Q. Does that sort of breed confidence and encouragement?
ZANDER LOMBARD: I said earlier that it's been a South African summer in Scotland.  It's been warm and sunny.  But, no, it's just we're a great group of guys.  I think we feed off each other's confidence.  Yeah, we motivate each other to play better golf.
Q. Zander, I understand you're a sprinter at one time.
ZANDER LOMBARD: Yeah.
Q. Can you tell us, was it the 100-meter dash?
ZANDER LOMBARD: It was 100 meters in high school.  I considered myself pretty great.
Q. How fast were you?
ZANDER LOMBARD: I think around 12 second or so.  Back in the day, it was pretty quick.
Q. Do you run anymore?
ZANDER LOMBARD: No.
Q. You played with the guy from Iceland who was in his first big tournament.  How was it playing with him?
ZANDER LOMBARD: I was impressed.  He's a very good golfer.  I think he can really play very well, like be a good professional if he gets on tour.
Q. He's got game?
ZANDER LOMBARD: He's definitely got game.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT