BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 23, 2016
Zander Lombard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Happy with 5-under to start this championship?
ZANDER LOMBARD: Yeah, it was a very solid morning for me.  Kept it in the fairway, which is crucial this week.  The rough is just brutal.  So I drove it really well, and had a good look at birdies and half of them dropped and all counted up to a 67.
Q. We know there will be birdies, but you're right about that rough; it's very thick, isn't it?
ZANDER LOMBARD: The course is playing fair.  The greens are fairly flat, so you have if to hack it out, you've got a chance for up-and-down.  But it's a hundred percent getting it in the fairway and giving yourself opportunities to hit it close.
Q. A little bit of a breeze but I imagine it's welcome, because it's baking, isn't it?
ZANDER LOMBARD: It's brutally hot out there.  When you're standing behind the bush, there's no wind.  It's like an oven.  Yeah, I think I handled everything well and just finished strong with a few good pars and added up to a nice score.
Q. Sums up the season, doesn't it.  You're handling things pretty well and turning up with some very nice scores?
ZANDER LOMBARD: Yeah, my golf has definitely stepped up a level in the last year.  Just knowing what I need to work on and doing it well.  Hopefully just stick to my guns and play a few good rounds this weekend.
Q. Does that change your attitude, your approach, because the goals, I'm sure, are always high, anyway.
ZANDER LOMBARD: Yeah, it's just one shot at a time, one hole at a time.
Q. That's the tedious answer.  You must know how good you are and how close you're getting.
ZANDER LOMBARD: I try not to think about it.  I'm here to win a tournament and I'm going to try my best.
Q. Is this one very much to your liking, is it, the way it's all staged, the way it's set up?
ZANDER LOMBARD: BMW always do a great event.  It's massive people out there.  It's Thursday morning and it's lots of crowds.  It's always great having an event like this.
Yeah, the course suits my eye and if my driver holds up like this, it's going to be a good week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT