NEDBANK GOLF CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY GARY PLAYER
November 15, 2019
Zander Lombard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You've shot 7-under par 65, playing alongside Els and Westwood in front of your home crowd in a marquee championship. Where does this round in your best-ever days on a golf course?  
ZANDER LOMBARD: It's definitely up there. Obviously the nerves are out there the first few holes, but settled in quite quickly, and with Ernie and Lee being lovely gents, we had an awesome time out there. From there it was just all positives and really enjoyed today.   
 Q.  Six birdies and an eagle in the round. Just tell us what was going through your mind and what you were thinking and feeling as it was unfolding.  
ZANDER LOMBARD: My caddie did a wonderful job. We were fighting for a birdie over hole. We tried to make a birdie every hole and it just showed on 18, as well, 5-iron from 15 to 9-foot, and unlucky I didn't make the putt, but my mind-set I was being aggressive and being positive. Just went my way today.   
 Q.  You came into the week 76th in The Race to Dubai and you need to improve no into that Top-50 to make that DP World. Does having a definitive objective help you focus?  
ZANDER LOMBARD: Absolutely. It's the pinnacle of the year, and you want to play for. I'm not going to try to play for it; I'm going to try and win it and all the spoils that come with it.   
 Q.  Bit of a bumpy start, take us through it.  
ZANDER LOMBARD: Playing with three legends of the game, it was nervy, but settled down quickly with a birdie on the second and it was just all really good vibes from there. Played really well today.   
 Q.  How is the course playing today versus yesterday?  
ZANDER LOMBARD: It definitely dried out. We got a little bit of carry and a little bit more run. The greens, you needed to place the ball and I did that really well today. I kept them in the right side of the holes, gave myself easy putts and I made a few of them. It's always nice when they roll in and you can post a about score.   
For me it was a bit easier. Yesterday the wind was really blustering all over the place and today seemed to be more the normal wind we're used to and I could trust my distances a bit more and it paid off. Really happy with the day.   
The crowds were at their max and all into it. They were cheering and they were fantastic. They were cheering or Ernie and Lee at the start, but I won them over at the end, so it was awesome.   
 Q.  What does it feel like to be leading at this stage?  
ZANDER LOMBARD: It's a huge opportunity, and just keep myself calm and do the same on the weekend. I've got a great team behind me and the processes are in place. I'm going to stick to my processes. It sounds cliché, but as simple as that and see where it puts me at the end of the week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT