NEDBANK GOLF CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY GARY PLAYER
November 14, 2019
Zander Lombard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  68. Pleased with that round?  
ZANDER LOMBARD: Absolutely. It was solid. I had one little dropped shot but it was good. I kept the ball in play. I think I only missed three fairways, and I was on 8 or 9 when I finished, two little leaky ones. Really nothing to be worried about and hopefully I can go better the next three days.   
 Q.  Overall, happy the way you were swinging it today?  
ZANDER LOMBARD: Yeah, absolutely. I think my knowledge around the golf course hemmed me a lot. I think I missed it in the right spots when I missed it. I had easy up-and-downs and when I hit the green, I had good looks at it. I would have liked to make one or two more putts, but this golf course, it will bite you back quickly. Really happy with 4-under par and taking it into tomorrow definitely.   
 Q.  Conditions-wise, what was it like out there?  
ZANDER LOMBARD: I said on a previous interview, I'm used to it being in the winter here. The Sunshine Tour plays in the winter and it's a winter resort for us because it's always hot here.   
When I play it, it's always bone dry and so fast, so it's a bit of an adjustment this week but really got the hang of it. The greens are soft and got a bit trampled because I was last off. I'm really looking forward to tomorrow. If it's dry, it's going to be immaculate.   
 Q.  Can you go at some pins?  
ZANDER LOMBARD: Yes, you can. You've got mid-irons in, so you can really control the ball still into the greens. Being soft, you could throw darts out there. I think Louis definitely showed us how you play it. There was a bit of a breeze out there, as well. But really, really solid, so really happy.   
 Q.  Looking at what you have to do to get into next week, is that part of the thinking at this stage?  
ZANDER LOMBARD: It's too early to play for that. I'm in good position. Just going to force it and let it happen. The goal is top eight or thereabouts. I'm just going to play my game and see where it brings me.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT