THE 147TH OPEN
July 21, 2018
Zander Lombard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Level par on the way in today.  Talk about finish, bogey, double, eagle.  
ZANDER LOMBARD: Yeah, I just pulled my tee shot on 17, poor shot, ended up in a ditch.  Dropped it, and I didn't have a stance.  Best thing I could do was get it to the front of the green.  It actually went a bit further than I thought and got into the bunker.  Lovely bunker shot but just hit the putt a little firm.   
So I said to my caddie walking down the fairway, good drive, let's have a finish for the crowds at least.  And lifted that up.   
 Q.  What did you have on the last?  
ZANDER LOMBARD: I had 132 yards, and I hit a gap wedge.   
 Q.  And you haven't taken yourself out of it for tomorrow, but still there's a lot of work.  
ZANDER LOMBARD: Yeah, there's a lot of work to be done.  The boys tore up the course a bit today.  I just couldn't get it going.  I was never in trouble, but I was never really scaring the hole.  Just too far from the pins really.  It was a bit tricky out there.  A lot of positives to take from today and come back tomorrow.   
 Q.  You're five shots back at the moment.  Do you think that's too much to do, or are you just going to go out there?  
ZANDER LOMBARD: Well, it is The Open, so anything's possible.  It's supposed to be windy tomorrow.  So we'll just go out and play our best and see what happens.   
 Q.  You're going out probably a long way before the leaders.  Do you think that will be an advantage for you to just post a number early?  
ZANDER LOMBARD: Yeah, if I post a low one, close to double figures, it will definitely be on the minds of the leaders.   
 Q.  Zander, just that last eagle, what does that do to you to give you confidence going into tomorrow's round?  
ZANDER LOMBARD: It's just awesome soaking up the energy and taking it in.  I feel really positive for tomorrow, and I'm going to fight for it.   
 Q.  You think that's going to be a highlight for you?  
ZANDER LOMBARD: Absolutely, a 2 on the 18th hole at the Open on Saturday was good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT