PACIFIC-12 CONFERENCE MEDIA DAY
July 26, 2013
Sean Parker
Keith Price
Steve Sarkisian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We will continue with Washington, Steve Sarkisian, Keith Price and Sean Parker; we will go ahead and have an opening remark from Coach. 
COACH SARKISIAN:   It's great to be back.   I can't believe it's year five already for me, I feel like the "old dog" here.   Great to be back, I'm excited to bring two guys who are seniors with us, captains on our football team who have had a tremendous amount of success for us, who have been cavaliers in changing the perception of our program, making us relevant again, leading us to three consecutive Bowl games and in our opinion on a quest to make a one run at a championship. 
I think we have a great team in place, a tremendous amount of depth on our roster and one that can withstand the injuries that may occur where there is not the disparity prosecute our one's and two's that they look similar on both sides of the ball.   Couldn't be more excited to get back into Husky Stadium, in our upon the most exciting place to play football and with that upgrade is a tremendous place to play.   We're looking forward to Boise State and seeing what this football game can get down in 2013. 

Q.   Coach, obviously a lot of talk, three straight 7‑6 seasons, what makes you confident that this is the year you can get over that "hump"? 
COACH SARKISIAN:   The reality is we are a better football team.   We were a better football team last year and unfortunately the record isn't indicative of how good that football team was and ultimately we're judged offensively us on our final outcome and record.   You can look at stats and the different things.   The one that matters is the wins and the losses. 
We had an opportunity to change that last year and unfortunately we weren't able to do that and we were 7‑6 last year.   In our heart of hearts we were better than 7‑6, but we didn't get it done.   In turn it's left a bad taste in our mouths and it's been an off season where these guys, our coaching staff and the entire team couldn't wait to get back on the field.   I feel confident we can get over that hump but ultimately until we do it we're a 7‑6 football team and that's what we have to change. 

Q.   Are you guys this year as opposed to a year ago? 
SEAN PARKER:   The key is being more aggressive and concentrating on the details that will help us win. 

Q.   Keith, what makes you more confident you can have a better seen? 
KEITH PRICE:   I'm ready.   I have a lot to prove to myself and a lot to prove to you guys.   I can't wait.   I think this is when I perform best, when people are doubting me and people don't think I can do what I did.   I believe I'm going to be better than I was 2011 season, but that's just me. 

Q.   Keith, we have a fan question for you from a fan on Facebook, and he asks, what was the biggest lesson that you learned from the 2012 season? 
KEITH PRICE:   How to lead.   I think I truly know how to lead now.   I have been through a lot and had to experience the ups and the downs. 

Q.   Steve you're silting next to a couple of Southern California kids.   You coached down here, you recruited down here, now you're up in Washington.   What are the challenges of being up there and trying to get some of the best kids in the back yard of USC and UCLA? 
COACH SARKISIAN:   Just to get 'em on the plane because once they get there they realize how great of a place it is.   It's a beautiful City of Seattle, great university, the facilities are fantastic.   There are great people in our community.   The rich history and tradition that we have, the biggest challenge is to get them on the airplane because once they get there, they love it. 

Q.   What's it like playing in a city where there is also such a great NFL football tradition?   There is not a lot of places that have both college football tradition and NFL tradition? 
COACH SARKISIAN:   Who do you want? 

Q.   Coach? 
COACH SARKISIAN:   It's unique with Pete being there with the Seahawks, we have a great relationship with the Seahawks, their guys come and work out with us, we have an opportunity to play at their place.   We played at CenturyLink Field last year, but it's a tremendous working relationship and Pete's a tremendous mentor of mine, a guy I worked with seven years with and someone I rely on as a young head coach and somebody I can rely on during tough times. 

Q.   Coach, any update on the Jenkins case and if not now do you have a timeline in place for that? 
COACH SARKISIAN:   Austin will be with us when we open training camp.   He's been tremendous throughout this entire process. 
He's handled himself like I knew he would.   He's a great kid who made a mistake.   It's unfortunate, he feels horrible about it, I think it's been a great learning lesson for all of our guys on our roster, but I couldn't have asked for more of what he's done.   We will handle the discipline amongst our football team, but I can sell you that everything that he's done up to this point has been above and beyond what we have asked of him.   The punitive side of it has been finalized from a standpoint and now my job is to continue to develop a young man who I treat like a son, just like these guys.   I'm not naive to think that I have 105 sons between the ages of 18 and 22 years old and we're going to make a couple of mistakes.   How we deal with those mistakes and who are we as real men and the character we possess is what's important.   That's no different with Austin and we will continue to work with him. 
THE MODERATOR:   Gentlemen, thank you for your time.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT