NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: GIANTS v PHILLIES
October 19, 2010
Joe Blanton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Joe Blanton.

 Q. Is there any sort of familiarity being back here? I mean, of course you pitched across the Bay, but knowing this area and this ballpark?
 JOE BLANTON: A little bit. I wouldn't say a whole lot. It was definitely, like you said, across the Bay, it would be a lot more. But it is close. Weather's somewhat similar. You get kind of the cool bay breeze and even when the sun's out. So it's a little bit.

 Q. Would there be any change or difference in the approach for you tomorrow if you're down 2-1 as opposed to up 2-1 and what will be the approach be?
 JOE BLANTON: No, there's not going to be any change. The goal's to go out and win the game whether we're up or down. I mean, it makes a big spin either way. If you're up 2-1 you get the advantage to go up 3-1, if you're down 2-1 it's almost like a must win to come back and tie it up to keep them from going 3-1.

 Q. Charlie's fielded a bunch of questions about possibly bringing Halladay back to pitch this game on short rest. Has that been background noise for you? Has it affected your preparation for this?
 JOE BLANTON: No, just took it -- personally, if I'm getting myself ready for the start, then I'm not starting, there's not going to be any surprises. But if I'm taking it as I'm not then all of a sudden I am, then it's going to be a shock. So I take it as I am the whole time and kind of what happens is going to happen.

 Q. I just wanted to follow up if it means a lot that he's stuck with a lot of his hitters and gotten something out of it. Does it feel like he's kind of sticking with you, giving you a shot to pitch?
 JOE BLANTON: Not really. I've been here before. I've thrown -- basically I've thrown Game 4s in all my starts. So I've been in that situation before. I've thrown Game 4s before, so it's nothing new.

 Q. You've had a lot of chances to watch both Roys pitch quality games and Cole pitch quality games in the playoffs. How much has that maybe made you itch to get back out there on the mound?
 JOE BLANTON: No more than it would if they didn't, I don't believe. I think every player has that personal fire inside to go out and compete and do well. I think every player in both clubhouses has that personal fire inside, otherwise we wouldn't be where we're at.

 Q. Has that given you any inspiration or anything watching them go out and have the success they've had?
 JOE BLANTON: Not really. I think as a pitcher and kind of sitting on the sidelines it's been fun to watch in what they've been able to do to go out through their starts and how successful they've been in the playoffs. 
 So it's been a pleasure watching. It's good to have them on your team when they're throwing that well.

 Q. How did you feel during your simulated game? The feedback from the hitters and the manager was you looked pretty sharp and they were impressed with you. And how much do you think that helped you?
 JOE BLANTON: I felt good. I think it was just nice to get on the mound and be able to face hitters. Not throwing in the first series then all the off days in the postseason makes it quite a long time between outings if you don't get to throw.
 So it was nice to just see a hitter in the box and be able to work on some different counts and things like that, throwing different pitches in different situations and kind of getting up and back down. I think I threw four or five innings, whatever it was. It was good to get back on the mound and get that feel.

 Q. I'm sure you probably haven't had this much time between any starts except, say, the off-season to Spring Training. What's the toughest part about getting yourself geared back again when you get on the mound after having been off so long?
 JOE BLANTON: I think this time of year it's not that hard. I had a long time between starts earlier in the year when I missed, had that oblique injury. Had a long time between starts then. Actually in the playoffs I was in the bullpen the first series and got a start in the second series. So there was a long stretch there. So it's not something that I haven't done before.
 You know, so to really keep yourself ready you just have to get a lot of mound work in between, really. Just make sure you're getting those reps off the hill and working on all your pitches and keeping your mechanics real sound and solid.
 Other than that, most pitchers that are in the situation throw easily 150 innings, some well over 200. If you don't have your feel by now, you're going to be in trouble.

 Q. Do you feel at all revitalized? Do you feel like you have a lot more juice now having gone through the layoff, how does your arm feel? Because the feedback was that it seemed pretty live compared to how it was in September or whatever. 
 JOE BLANTON: My arm feels good. I always feel good this time of year. I always feel like I'm the guy the more I throw the better I feel, for whatever reason. Not necessarily that my arm has more life, just that I feel more comfortable with more reps I get and the more I throw. 
 And it's kind of the way I've always been.

 Q. The perception in Philadelphia and around the country is the Phillies traded Cliff Lee and banked on you. Do you think about that as you enter this start, especially considering how well Cliff Lee's pitched in the postseason?
 JOE BLANTON: No, I don't think about that at all. They make their decisions on whatever they base it. I'm going to go out and pitch wherever I'm at and I'm going to do the best I can.
 I'm not going to try to compare myself to somebody else or try to fill into their shoes on what they may have done or what they're doing. If I try to do that, I'm not being myself. I'm not doing what I'm capable of doing. I'm just going to go out and do what I'm able to do.
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Joe. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT