COSIDA CONFERENCE CALL
August 23, 2017
CoSIDA Continuing Education Series
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







CLARK TEUSCHER: Hello, and welcome to the first installment of the 2017-2018 CoSIDA Continuing Education Series sponsored by Capital One.  My name is Clark Teuscher.  I'm the sports information director at North Central College and the chair of the CoSIDA Continuing Education Committee.  I'll be moderating today's webinar as members of the CoSIDA staff share some updates, membership benefits and other important information as we all prepare to begin a new academic year.  Once again this year, all of our webinars will be recorded and made available, along with a full FastScript from CoSIDA's official transcript provider, ASAP Sports, for use exclusively at CoSIDA Connect.
Presenting on today's webinar, CoSIDA Executive Director Doug Vance; Director of Professional Development and External Affairs, Barb Kowal; Associate Executive Director Will Roleson; Director of Membership Engagement Laurie Bollig; and Director of Creative Services Beau White.  Attendees on today's window are welcome to submit questions in the chat window during today's presentation.  We'll address as many of those as time allows.
Our first presenter today will be Doug Vance, who will tell us a little about CoSIDA's mission and goals for the coming year.  Doug?
DOUG VANCE: Thanks, Clark.  Welcome, everyone.  We appreciate you being here.  My job is to introduce today's presentation, which will focus on topics that we think are important to you as a member of CoSIDA.  Along with the CoSIDA staff members, as Clark mentioned, we're going to open up our CoSIDA staff white book to give you some important insights on all things CoSIDA.  We want you to be informed, engaged and understand the basics of membership.
On the screen right now, you'll see our vision and mission statement along with some goals that are important to this organization.  I'm not going to read them to you, but I do encourage you to review them and understand them and know where you can find them.  They are on cosida.com along with our constitution.  And in a nutshell these statements represent the road map of who we are, what we do and essentially what's important to our membership.
When people ask me what I do in my job, people have heard me say this often, I normally tell them I do the three cates; I educate, I communicate and I advocate, and those are the three action words in the first line of our membership statement.  There's also a fourth cate that I like to use in describing our membership, and that's dedicate.  I don't know of any athletic organization out there that has members who are more dedicated to their job.  Our vision and mission statement along with our goals define our guidance system as an organization on behalf of our profession.  Next slide.
I have great pride in telling people that CoSIDA is a nonprofit organization with over 3,000 members who represent the very best athletic professionals in the country.  The role you play on behalf of your school and your athletic department is what helps drive this massive industry we call college athletics.  So don't underestimate your value and your importance to your department.  Next slide.
The benefits of membership, and there are many benefits, it's important for you to understand what you get for your return on your membership investment dollars.  CoSIDA is one of the best values in athletic associations because the CoSIDA membership always has been and remains one of the least expensive association memberships out there.  The third word in the CoSIDA mission statement is advocates.  It's one of the core values of membership and a priority for both the board of directors and the staff.  CoSIDA's advocacy strategy has evolved over the years and we're always looking for new and more effective approaches.  We have nurtured over the years some very important strategic partnerships with national groups, such as the NCAA, NCAA Division II, Division III, NAIA, NJCAA, Usports, NACDA, Football Writers and Basketball Writers, Women's Leaders, College Football Playoff, MOAA and many others.  In addition we've fostered corporate partnerships with valued stakeholders, such as ESPN, Capital One, USA Today, many conferences, national award organizations, coaches and college football bowls.
CoSIDA strives to have representation at main National Championship events, always have staff and board leadership at the NCAA convention, NAIA convention and other NACDA event conferences.  We use our magazine as an advocacy tool, sending it out to members, not only members but to athletic directors conference commissioners and important external stakeholders.  We send letters of recognition to athletic directors thanking them for allowing their communication office staff to serve in leadership roles.  We recently launched CoSIDA Member Recognition Week.  And we'll make calls in support of members who are in difficult work situations.  We provide grants to help people obtain professional development, and we openly promote member successes in order to help gain recognition for our members.  And of course, there's no stronger advocacy program for CoSIDA than the Academic All-America program and Academic All-America Hall of Fame.  It speaks volumes about what we are as an organization and what we value.
Let me also add as an organization our best advocates are you, our members, and thus, we have an army of over 3,000 advocates.  So your voice is important.  All of you have platforms to use it effectively.  So please take advantage of the opportunities to be an advocate of your profession and your national organization.
CoSIDA is where you grow as a leader as we offer opportunities to serve on 15 standing committees.  We currently have nearly 370 members serving on those committees with each committee having a chair and cochair position.  Plus, we have approximately 10 other leadership boards and other committees that members can serve on, including DII SIDA, DIII SIDA, 2Y SIDA, to name a few.  Also our newest committees, Diversity Inclusion Committee and Young Professional Committee are both important advocacy resources for CoSIDA.
And now I'm going to shift the focus south to Austin, Texas and to CoSIDA's Director of Professional Development and External Affairs, Barb Kowal, who will talk about professional development.  Barb?
BARB KOWAL: Thank you.  And thank you everybody for listening today and joining us, and Doug, thank you so much for giving that tremendous overview of advocacy that we do for our organization and for our members.  The main message that you're going to hear today from our staff members and our board of directors and our officers throughout the year, as a CoSIDA member, we want you to feel a connection to our organization.  We feel like we have tremendous momentum right now, and we are listening.  And I hope that if you come away from anything, take anything away today, that you understand that we are always listening to our members and adjusting our programming and things like that accordingly.
I'm going to speak a little bit about professional development, continuing education, our convention, and you'll see that I put up on the slide lifelong learning.  And I feel like that's really, really important in exactly what we want to do with our professional development and our continuing education opportunities.  We are listening to you.  We know every one of you comes to us with a unique set of preferences, a unique set of important agenda items to carry out your own job.  We are listening to your needs and your concerns.  And we do that via our annual surveys; so many of you participate in our annual convention survey; the personal phone calls that we might have with you.  We listen in committee meetings.  We listen to our committee members.  We listen at our social events, like CoSIDA After Hours.  We're listening and evaluating and responding to your emails, and we are always building and adjusting our programs, our events, our communications methods and our education based on what we're hearing year to year and the important issues that are facing our members and the important trends in communications.
We rely heavily -- in addition to listening, obviously, to our members, we rely heavily on our convention planning and our continuing education committees as we move forward with our professional education opportunities every year.  We have targeted communications.  We want to do more targeted professional development.  We're starting to use a lot more platforms.  Right now, for instance, if any of you participate in the weekly Monday night SIDA chat, which is run by two of our members, we are aligning ourselves with that.  We are having members of our continuing education committee serve as moderators going forward into the academic year.  For those of you that don't know about this, it's Monday night at 9 p.m. Eastern.  Please put that on your calendars because that is a great platform to ask questions and to learn a little bit more about our association in an informal manner.  You can always look at the SIDA chat hashtag as well for a review after the sessions happen on Monday night.
Our webinars, you'll see on cosida.com and on Connect this week that we will put out our monthly schedule.  We have general webinars like this, and also our members in the NAIA have done a fantastic job over the last few years in having a monthly NAIA SIDA series.  They've got their fall schedule set up right now, and I encourage people who are non NAIA members to also participate in some of their calls.  They share a wealth of information and a wealth of content that goes across all divisions.
We're going to be introducing this year -- speaking of using different platforms, we're going to be using Facebook Live, and you'll see some new media committee members giving us some advice and talking about some of the trending topics in social media and graphics.  Those will be coming up on Facebook Live.
We also, just so you know that we consider our continuing education and our professional development member oriented.  And it's a big membership benefit.  So even though we might publicize it on all of our different platforms, when we do everything on demand and all of our sessions are on demand; our videos will be on demand, we will be housing them in CoSIDA Connect, our membership online community.  We feel very strongly that we keep our professional development and continuing education a very important membership benefit.
Clark, at this point I'm going to turn it over to you, and then if there's a question, we can shoot it to Laurie afterwards.  Thank you.  Clark?
CLARK TEUSCHER: We actually do have a question in for you, Barb.  With regard to professional development and continuing education programming, for those members who have ideas about topics or are interested in being presenters either on a webinar or at the convention, how do members go about letting CoSIDA know if they're not on one of the committees that oversees this?
BARB KOWAL: Great question.  We've taken a lot of our programming this year from our annual convention survey and some of you might not have participated in that.  Some of you did.  But if you have any questions, Clark, myself, reach out to us.  If you'd like to be a presenter, a moderator; if you have an idea, if you'd like to have a blog or do a video.  Whatever you feel you're interested in and you'd like to present to our organization or if you have a topic that you are struggling with or that you'd like more information on, let us know.  We will set it up with our experts.  We are always looking outside of our organization as well, looking at some national communications leaders to bring in and present during our professional development sessions.  We're also looking at other members in the athletic space, assistant athletic directors, somebody from development, maybe a friend of ours from NACMA, from marketing.  So we have the experts arranged and organized so that we can help you answer all your questions.  So please reach out to us.  Thank you, Clark.
CLARK TEUSCHER: Thank you, Barb.  At this time we'll move on to Laurie Bollig to talk about some important changes to our membership structure this year and some membership benefits as well.  Laurie.
LAURIE BOLLING: All right.  Thanks, Clark.  Hello, everybody.  Welcome to Kansas City.  Very quick tour of my office.  There's my office caddy with pens and pencils, my desk and a window.  I don't know if you can see my window that I look out.  It is a gorgeous day, probably the best day ever for August in Kansas City.  Two quick answers to your questions:  Yes, the barbecue is as good as advertised.  And we are still in fact celebrating our Royals World Series Championship, even though we're two years removed from it.  You wait 30 years to throw a party, you make it last as long as you possibly can.
So I'm going to talk about a few benefits here before we get into our new member portal.  And the very first one I'm going to start off with is the Academic All-America practice.
You know what, this is a big deal.  It's our signature program.  We recognize over 5,000 students every year with awards.  The NCAA believes very firmly in this program and has backed it up with funds to support it throughout the year.  But ultimately it's not going to survive without our members' participation.  The whole spirit and intent of the program is to recognize true scholar athletes on our campuses, which when we get right down to it is the reason that all of us are in this business.
Nominate them.  Nominate your student-athletes.  Vote for them.  You have a vote at the district level.  Please use it.  And encourage your peers to do the same.  I will talk a little bit more about this program whenever I get into the new member portal.  But for now I just encourage you to participate fully.  We would love -- you know, ideally we'd love 100 percent participation.  But we would encourage you to nominate every time and vote every time you have the opportunity.
The mentorship program, so currently we have 92 mentor/ mentee pairings.  Hall of Famers, board of directors members, students, everybody can learn from this program.  Right now we have nine gracious volunteers who have said they would be mentors, but I'm short on mentees.  So if you or any of your peers want to be a mentee in the program this year, we're not closed.  In fact, it doesn't close the entire year.  I make matches throughout the academic year.  So if you haven't signed up yet, go on to cosida.com and follow the link or get in touch with me directly and I will make that match happen for you.  Because we think it's a program that has to fit a lot of different people, we've kept it very loosely structured.  So really it can fit any type of interaction that you and your mentor or mentee want.
After hours, so it's easy.  Right?  And since it was introduced in 2015, we've had at least 30 groups.  We've gathered in bars.  We've gathered in restaurants, in Major League ball parks, at minor league baseball games, just to enjoy each others' company outside of the office.  They've stretched from New York City to Southern California, everywhere in between.  We've met in conjunction with the NCAA convention, the Board of Directors Officers Meeting, the IMG Intercollegiate Athletics Forum.  We've even had a couple of meetings at the Women's Leaders in College Sports Annual Convention.  We did have a group early on get together at a minor league baseball game on a night that they had a bobble head giveaway for a former SID.  How cool is that?  So these are easy to plan and the greatest thing is is CoSIDA foots the first $500 of the tab.  So if you have a concentration of SIDs in your area, contact me.  I'll help you make it happen.  All you really have to come up with is a date and location and we'll communicate to the people in your area.  And like I said, CoSIDA will spring for the first round.
And the final thing I'll talk about with regard to benefits right now is CoSIDA Connect.  So this is your online community.  This is a place to have meaningful dialogue with your peers.  It is easy and quick to go on Facebook and complain about your job or a coworker, but in CoSIDA Connect you can actually ask your peers for their advice and their help in a private, secure setting.  So there are great discussions going on every day on CoSIDA Connect.  Ann King just recently posted a request to see if anybody could teach her how to train spotters for volleyball matches.
We have a resource library.  If you have something that you think would help your peers, a template, policies and procedures, a handbook, a tool kit, share it on CoSIDA Connect because somebody is sure to need something like that.  Barb just posted an info graphic on the best times to post on social media in the CoSIDA Connect resource library.
If you're on a committee, we have different communities for each committee where private discussions can be held with regard to what's going on in your committees.  Do you have something you want to share with a wider audience that takes a little bit more time than you want to sit down and post on Facebook, use CoSIDA Connect blog feature.  Denise Thompson of the Big Sky Conference just recently wrote a blog about the balance between being a supervisor and a friend to the people that you work with.
Rob Knox just posted a really nice article on things that he learned while he was preparing to go on an international trip with one of his teams.
We have volunteer opportunities available on CoSIDA Connect.  That is where beginning later -- well, right before the convention next year we'll open it up to people who have an interest in being on committees.  There's also a place to volunteer to host an after hours event.  There's a place to volunteer to write blogs.  Any of that stuff you can find on Connect.  If you have questions about it, if you don't understand exactly what it's used for, please let me know.
So okay, I'm going to be back in a few minutes to talk about the new member portal, but now I'm going to turn it over to Beau White, who used to be my neighbor, but sadly, is not in Kansas anymore.  Oh, maybe we had a question.
CLARK TEUSCHER: Before we do that, real quick, Laurie, for those who are interested in getting into committee work, are there any requirements they have to meet in terms of length of service or particular expertise in order to be eligible to be on a committee?
LAURIE BOLLIG: No.  Thanks for that question.  Really the only committee that has any kind of requirement is our special awards committee, and you have to have been in the profession 10 years or longer.  And they do also have a regional requirement.  Our young professionals committee.  Actually, I lied.  They do have -- you need to be 35 years or younger to serve on that.  Other than those, committee service is open to any and all.
Now, I will say that we have a certain amount of spots that we can fill, and this year we had an excess of volunteers, which is just fantastic.  But not just committee service.  We also have some working groups, some task forces that we'll be able to utilize those extra volunteers.  But to answer your question, other than those two committees I mentioned, there is no requirement for how long you had to have been in the profession or where you live or what district you are in.  Okay.  Beau.
BEAU WHITE: Hello.  Yes, I used to be Laurie's neighbor.  She's a tough act to follow.  But I will do my best.  I'm now in Colorado Springs.  I've been here for a few weeks.  I'm not going to give you a tour like Laurie did because my house is a mess.  Yeah, if anybody that's on is in Colorado or Colorado Springs, I'd love to get together with you.  I have a CoSIDA credit card and lunch is on me.  So let's do that.
Moving on to the things that I'll be covering as far as membership benefits, I handle all the career centers, so job postings, resumés, transactions.  Most people by now know to send those to me.  And I'm happy to work with you.  And we've had some unique situations as we've rolled over our new membership portal, we're doing our best to make sure everybody gets help and gets their jobs posted in a timely manner.
We do need people to renew for 2017-18 to take advantage of membership rates.  And if you're in a unique situation, maybe you're a one-man shop and you don't know about how to get the member rate because you don't want to renew and things like that, just give me an email and we'll work through it together and get you taken care of.
The next bullet point on here is the $60 for 60th Scholarship Campaign.  If you don't know what that is, CoSIDA's 60th birthday is this year, so we've launched a campaign to just raise money for our scholarship programs.  We've had pretty good participation so far with 29 different individuals have given $60 or more.  Some of them have given $120.  To honor -- what you do is you honor a mentor, somebody that's helped you in this profession.  Maybe it's a friend that you just want to honor.  But you can go online to cosida.com and there's links to direct you how to donate.  And if you have any questions, again, you can email any member of the staff.  I'm happy to help you.  And today we've raised a little over $2,600.  That's a great start, but as everyone knows, our scholarships are very important to us and we'd like to raise as much money as possible to help out our friends in the profession.
With that I'm actually going to pass it to Will Roleson who will talk about membership recognition week and these other items.
WILL ROLESON: Thank you, Bill.  As we go around the country, I'm in yet another time zone in Indianapolis, so East Coast time.  My location makes it very convenient for NCAA meetings and when other members of our board of directors or our staff come to town for such meetings.  So good afternoon, everyone.
A couple of pieces to talk about here remaining on this slide, both of which debuted last academic year.  The first being CoSIDA member recognition week, and that's scheduled, as you see here, for November 6 through 12.  That's a Monday through Sunday where we will begin look to honor, recognize SIDs around the country at all levels and hope that some of our organizations, some of our sister organizations, NACDA, NACMA, et cetera, media, student-athletes, certainly athletic departments and campus communications office find a way to recognize SIDs on their campus in their respective conference office.  We think we had a great year last November, and we're excited to up the ante, so to speak, in 2017, have some plans to do even a little more outreach than we've done before.
We're currently working on a promotional or media kit that we'll send to a number of those groups that I mentioned earlier in hopes that they will take advantage of the opportunity to raise the profile and show some appreciation for our SIDs who work on their behalf throughout the year.  So plenty more to come on that.  We're also working on a program where we will be leading up to that for a month or more talking about all the things that SIDs do on a regular basis, again, with the focal point being that first full week of November.
Again, a second program that debuted last year is our National Championship SID recognition program, and what we did, we sent out small gifts to each of the SIDs whose specific teams won national championships last year, again, at all levels of which CoSIDA represents.  We sent out more than 170 this past year.  We're going to have the same gift this year.  It's a small acrylic gift and we're able to personalize and insert into that, it has the person's name, school, sports, school recognition right on there.  So just another way that we feel is appropriate to recognize our SIDs.
Again, many times those National Championship seasons last a month or more beyond the regular season with many times little to no additional recognition by the SIDs.  And this originally started because we noticed that there were a number of other national days or months or weeks of the year.  I thought it appropriate to add to SIDs, and we know we see sometimes on some of those Facebook sites that SIDs don't get an opportunity to receive a championship ring or apparel relative to the National Championship when they were very much a participant, and an active one at that, in promoting the program that went on to do great things and ^ brought great recognition to their institution.  So I look for more of that this year.  Hopefully some of the people on this call will be beneficiaries of that ^ with successful teams during the course of the academic year.  Clark?
CLARK TEUSCHER: Will, before we move forward, we have a question about CoSIDA Recognition Week.  You know, last year when this was introduced, there were some in the organization who didn't necessarily feel as comfortable promoting themselves or using the graphics recognition week with the hashtag thank you, SID.  They were concerned about it seeming self-serving since often we're the ones that oversee those social accounts anyway.  Has there been any discussion about that, any way to possibly address that?
WILL ROLESON: Yeah.  First of all, we do have the logo both with or without the hashtag as we did last year, and that was in response to feedback from some of our members as you mentioned.  Secondly, we're going to do an even better job of reaching out to some of these national organizations that I mentioned directly to ADs, our senior administrators at schools, because the last THING we want this to be is more work on the CoSIDA member or the SID at that institution.
Now, if your AD asks you to write a story about your situation or what you do for your website, then you're probably going to go ahead and do that.  But we want to have it be more of the SIDs being the recipient of the recognition rather than being as much an active participant as much as we can.
Secondly, I just would encourage people to be willing to be recognized.  Of course, a lot of people are in this profession because they enjoy being behind the scenes and seeing others get the glory or the credit and other recognition.  But just this once a year please be willing to accept that recognition.  Don't be embarrassed.  It's something that's deserved, long overdue in many situations and just want to encourage folks to be willing to receive that recognition at least one week out of the 52 of the year.  With that, I'll turn it back over to our executive director, Doug Vance.
DOUG VANCE: Thank you, Will.  I want to talk to you briefly here a little bit about diversity and engagement.  I think that's a real critical thing that's important to us as an organization.  As we talk as board members about issues each year and facets of our organization will CoSIDA can be impactful, we've identified some priorities for this year, and these are priorities that the board plans to address.  Certainly one of those is the area of diversity and inclusion.  Clearly our organization needs to grow in this area.  It's past time that we do that.  And we're going to take steps forward this year to try to make it happen.
And thus, we've created a standing committee called the diversity inclusion committee, which is chaired by Jessica Poole, who's now at Vanderbilt, to explore ways we can engage more diverse membership, more involvement and look for strategic opportunities to bring more diversity and inclusion into our organization.
Through our new membership portal we'll soon be able to pull together important data which will help us fully understand what our diversity numbers actually are.  We really haven't been able to accurately do that in broad perspective in the past.  This overall topic is clearly an important mission for this year's board, and I'm excited about the opportunity to make a difference in this area, certainly this year and into the future.  So it allows us to arm ourselves with facts, big-picture numbers which we can go forward I think and be important in this organization.
Now I'm going to return it back over to my favorite baseball team, Laurie Bollig.  Laurie.
LAURIE BOLLIG: Hi, Doug.  Thank you.  So thanks to Doug for explaining the fact that we want to know more about our membership.  In a data-driven business, we have very few facts and very few data that tell us who our 3,000 members are.  We think we know, but we don't really have -- we haven't had in the past a good way to look at our membership from all angles, for many different reasons.  So I'm going to take the next few slides to talk about the newest tool that we have that will enable us to get some of these facts and figures.  As a staff we looked at a lot of different association management tools.  Our goals were two-fold.  One was to find a system where we could go in and ask more questions of our membership, find out where they are, what they do, what they look like, where they live, how old they are.  And the other one was to make some processes for our members easier.  So we think we've accomplished that.  We rolled this new membership portal out on August 8th, and over the next few slides I'll point out some of the high-level functions.  And just wanted to let you know there is a user's guide for the new portal.  It's on cosida.com and it's also on CoSIDA Connect.  And as always, if you have questions or concerns, I'm available to help walk you through it and to get through some issues as Beau suggested.  So Will, if you could go to the next slide, please.
So if you notice when you go to cosida.com, we have a new header on the top right that says membership.  And it's got a log-in, join/renew and a profile button.  You can click on any of those to get into the new portal or, next slide, Will, you can go to the membership drop-down tab and hit 2017-18 membership renewal and go through that way.  Either way, you're going to come to a log-in screen.  Next, Will.
And that log-in screen is going to look like this.  And your user name is now the email that's associated with your account.  The password -- so I'm going to invite you all to forget all of the user names and passwords you've used on cosida.com.  Now it's your email always as the user name, and the first time you log in, your password is a default password.  It is password 1, capital P.  You'll be prompted to change that going forward, and that will be your new password.  When we get all of our systems talking with one another, CoSIDA Connect, the Academic All-America and special awards software, you will just use this email log-in, these email log-in credentials for all the systems.  You will not have to log in separately to the Connect or to the awards portal.  This will be your log-in for every system with CoSIDA.  Okay.  If you could go to the next slide, Will.
So when you do get in, you will come to your overview page.  If we're going to know more about our organization, we have to know who makes up our membership.  I created an account for Stats, for instance.  Here is his overview in CoSIDA.com.  He's added a picture, which is nice.  Next slide, Will.
And his account page.  This is very, very important.  So you know, Stats is a white male in his 40s and he's been in CoSIDA for about 15 years.  Well, guess what, he is the rule, not the exception.  That's okay.  We want to know more about him.  We also want to know more about people who are not just like him.  So you will see that we ask for name, gender, title, under this account with personal information Stats.  So Will, if you could go to the next slide.
We get into specifics, how do you best prefer to be communicated with, what sports are you responsible for, when did you join CoSIDA.  And then we have the whole list of CoSIDA awards.  If you've won an award, mark the checkbox by that.  We want to know that as well.
One important thing to note is that if you change jobs, you're not able to change your affiliation yourself.  That is something CoSIDA staff can do, specifically me.  So please either go through the portal and request an affiliation change or email me with those details.  I need to know your new school, your new email, and then once I make that change, you can go back into your portal; you can change your phone number.  You can change addresses.  You can change your log-in email if you want to.  So that is very, very important.  If you leave a job, I do not know to -- I'm not triggered to change that affiliation until you tell me to.  Or maybe I see it somewhere online.  But I'd really rather you guys tell me.  So always, the job changes, please let me know.  Next slide.
So all these demographics, like I said, gender, race, ethnicity, age, membership status, they are going to give us a clear picture of our membership.  We're not going to do anything with these facts except be able to target better programming, be able to have promotions and emails specifically for different groups.  We're going to use it to help the diversity and inclusion committee to guide their actions.  We're going to use it with the young professionals committee so that they know what the population of young professionals is among CoSIDA.  So these are all things we're going to use, again, not any other reason but to get a better picture of our members.  Next slide.
So if you're the custodian for your school, you have a little bit more work to do.  Not only do we want members to fill out their personal profiles, but we also need the custodian to fill out the organizational profile.  Very similar to the personal profile, the organization has an overview and an account tab.  The information within this tab is crucial.  As I said before, it will be what transfers to our Academic All-America portal.  So every school has a custodian.  If you don't have one, get one.  Let me know who it should be.  Again, that's something a staff member can do.  We have to designate you as the custodian, and then the custodian can go in and fill out the profile.  Next slide, please.
So to get to your organizational profile as a custodian, you will need to go to the organizations tab in your personal profile.  You'll see that there's an institution listed and a blue manage button.  Go ahead and click that.
Next slide.  So there's an overview page.  Right now you can see that I've filled CoSIDA University with the CoSIDA logo.  This is actually going to be our new logo library.  You can put a primary image in that box right there and then you can also upload secondary images, as many as you want, and your peers will be able to go get those logos from the portal.  This page also shows all contact information for the university, website, et cetera.  And then as you see on the right-hand side, it will show -- if the university has a group membership, it will show that they have a group membership, or not.  Next slide.
So the account tab, as important as the overview tab was, the account tab is even more important.  Just as an example, as you see down at the bottom of that first screen shot, we are asking right now for people to put in -- or requiring people to put in the institution name as it would appear on awards.  So when you fill out Academic All-America awards and you put -- one of your associates may put Ole Miss; another one may put the University of Mississippi.  Another person may just say Mississippi.  Well, we want it consistent across universities.  So when you enter that here, it will be automatically brought over to our awards portal, and we'll know any award winner going forward will have Ole Miss, or whatever you put in that box.  If you could go to the next slide, please.
More critical information, what division you're in, district you're in, CoSIDA district, NCAA, NAIA, Usports, et cetera.  And then not required, but absolutely, really, really, really stressed to fill this out, what conferences you're in.  Again, the Academic All-America system depends on this, so what you put in these boxes is what's going to translate to that portal, and if you don't have it filled out, whenever you go to nominate, it's not going to know where to place your student-athletes, what district, what division, et cetera.  So please, please, please fill that out as a custodian.  Next slide.
So big days.  Big days for everybody.  October 15th is the last day to pay your membership dues without late fees.  We tack on $30 per membership to every membership as of October 16th.  So please, if you're going to renew your dues, why pay more?  Right?  Go ahead and get that done, because maybe, more importantly, October 17th through the 24th is when the first nomination window is open for Academic All-America.  That's men's and women's soccer.  If you haven't paid your membership dues, and you know this, you're not going to be allowed to nominate.  You must be a member during the nomination window.  You can't tell me that you're going to send a check and have it show up.  Sometimes those checks never show up.  But you cannot tell me that you've got a check in the mail.  Your dues have to be updated or you're not going to be allowed to go forward in the system.  Please don't wait until the last minute.  If you call me on October 24th at 8:59 Eastern Time and the portal closes at 9 p.m., it's highly unlikely that I'm going to be able to get done what you need to have done.  So please do not wait till the last minute.
And then finally, if your organization's profile is not updated, like I just said, you're not going to be able to nominate in the right division or district.  Your school's profile has to be updated for this process to work.
Again, I encourage you please do not wait until the last minute.  There's only so much as a staff we can do to get you caught up to where you need to be October the 17th through the 24th.  Next slide.
So I would just encourage you to look at the user's guide.  The portal seems daunting in some regards, but our feedbacks that we've received so far from people paying membership dues is that it's pretty easy to use.  So that's good.  But it's not going to work unless you fill out your profile and your organization profile.  These are two things that will make a difference in how we proceed through this academic year.
If you have any questions about the portal, about dues renewal, changes in your job status, custodian duties, any other issues, I would invite you to contact staff.  Our responsibilities are all listed on cosida.com.  You can email.  You can call.  You can request changes through the membership portal.  Please don't leave your questions unanswered.  So with that, I'm going to send it back to Clark.  I appreciate everybody's attention.
CLARK TEUSCHER: Laurie, before we have you sign off here, we have a quick question about payment of dues.
LAURIE BOLLIG: Yes.
CLARK TEUSCHER: For those members who are not able to complete a credit card purchase for this and will have to pay by invoice or a check, is that still possible to do with the new system?
LAURIE BOLLIG: Yes.  Great question.  So you go through the renewal process just like you normally would if you were going to pay with a credit card.  And there is an option that says "bill me."  When you hit that option, your request for an invoice will be put into a queue, and I will see it and I will generate that invoice and I will email you and tell you where you can find that invoice.  If you're doing an individual membership, the invoice will be in your personal portal, your personal profile.  If you're doing a group membership, it will be attached to your organization's profile.
So yeah, all that is still -- it's still possible.  But we do want you to go through the process online to allow us to generate the invoice.
CLARK TEUSCHER: Okay.  That sounds great.  Thank you very much, Laurie.  We want to thank each member of the CoSIDA staff for presenting today.  We continue to appreciate CapitalOne's ongoing sponsorship of the continuing education series.  The recording of today's webinar and the ASAP Sports FastScript will be available for on-demand use exclusively in CoSIDA's online community, CoSIDA Connect, later today.
As always, we invite all attendees to submit any additional questions for further discussion at CoSIDA Connect.  All continuing education resource library materials are available on CoSIDA Connect from past years as well.  Mobile users can download the CoSIDA Connect app on iTunes.  More information on the mobile app can be find at CoSIDA Connect and cosida.com.  Our next webinar will be on Thursday, August 31st, as we see how some institutions are bringing their athletics-related visual content into compliance with the Americans With Disabilities Act.
Thanks to everyone for participating.  Have a great day.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT