NL DIVISION SERIES: CARDINALS v DIAMONDBACKS
October 13, 2001
Bud Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Did you consider your pitching resourceful today?
 
BUD SMITH: I just went out there and I was trying to give my team a chance to win and just make pitches, not get beat.  I struggled a little bit with my control early, but just had to settle down out there. 
 
Q.  When you picked off Womack, had you done a lot of work with Vina and Renteria on that play?
 
BUD SMITH: We work on it.  We work on our pick offs and stuff.  It was a big time pick off there.  Vina was trying to go to the bag the pitch before and I saw him and I was going to the plate.  And then he did it again the 2nd pitch and I turned and fired, and he was caught leaning.  So it worked out. 
 
Q.  Can you talk about your nerves coming into this game, what if felt like coming into the game in the first inning, and did you settle down later?
 
BUD SMITH: Yes.  I was a little bit nervous going into the game, butterflies, especially with the way I was ready to go at noon and it was 4:00 until we got out there.  I was a little nervous until we got done with that first inning, 35 pitches later I think it was.  But I settled down and I was a lot more comfortable after that. 
 
Q.  How does it feel to get a start in a game that was do or die for the team?
 
BUD SMITH: It was fun.  It was a lot of  -- LaRussa showed a lot of confidence in me to let me go out and start, and I wanted to make the best of it. 
 
Q.  The delay was almost four hours.  What did you do to pass the time?
 
BUD SMITH: I really just wanted to try not to use any energy, just really relax all day and get food in me, stay hydrated and stay calm and relaxed and not use any energy, just prepare myself. 
 
Q.  Was this more satisfying even than your no-hitter?
 
BUD SMITH: Definitely.  I mean, this game means a lot more to us, to the team, the no hitter just happened.  This game meant a lot to the team, it was do or die.  We weren't ready to go home, we're ready to go to Phoenix. 
 
Q.  You gave up several walks.  Did the walks not bother you?
 
BUD SMITH: I fell behind a couple of hitters and ended up walking two or three guys.  I was trying to make too good of pitches, not give in and let the big guys beat me.  I ended up getting the pitches I needed to to get outs and use my defense. 
 
Q.  Was there anything in the game that calmed you down more than the pick off play?
 
BUD SMITH: It was a big play, and I would say that was the biggest play, that was a big turn around for me and change of pace for everything.  So it helped me out there. 
 
Q.  How big was the play, and does Vina get a lot of credit for that?
 
BUD SMITH: All the credit goes to Vina.  I just have to make a good throw, he's reading the runner, he gives me his glove and I turn and throw.  He has to get the tag and he gets everything right.  It was all him.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT