NL DIVISION SERIES: CARDINALS v DIAMONDBACKS
October 12, 2001
Bud Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Tony just talked about how you have been pretty composed all season, but he knows there's probably some concern inside you now.  Can you talk about that aspect of it?

BUD SMITH: I think definitely I'm going to have a little bit of nerves going out before the game, that's normal.  I have to take the same approach I have had all year, go out there and give my team a chance to win.

Q.  Realistically, is that something you can really do, treat it like a regular-season game with the stands full and all the hype of a post-season?

BUD SMITH: I mean, it's going to be.  Adrenaline is going to be running.  It's obviously a bigger game.  At the same time, we have to come down to the pitcher rather than the hitter, and I have to go out there and stay calm.

Q.  How do you assess the Arizona lineup with all the left-handers in it, and what kind of problems do they provide for you?

BUD SMITH: They have three or four left-handers in their lineup that are power hitters and have got numbers.  And I have to go out there like I've been approaching it all year, work in and out and just use my defense.

Q.  Did you watch postseason games when you were in the Minor Leagues and your season was done, and did you dream about being in this position of starting?

BUD SMITH: Yes, definitely, I mean, growing up, I grew up around baseball and I've dreamed about getting the opportunity I'm in right now.  I thank God for that.  Tomorrow is going to be a great opportunity for me.

Q.  How did you get the nickname Bud?

BUD SMITH: There's no story behind that, no big story.  Just growing up, I've always had the nickname from my father.  When I was two or three years old he started calling me that.  There's a lot of stories out there, but none of them are true.

Q.  Up until this point, pitching in the postseason, what's been the best thing that's happened for you so for?

BUD SMITH: Definitely just getting the opportunity to get up here and get a chance to pitch in Major Leagues and facing Major League hitters.  I was down in the Minor Leagues dreaming one day of getting up here, and I finally got the opportunity and I'll try to make the best of it.

Q.  You haven't seen Arizona or faced them.  Obviously, have you seen a lot of tape.  Is it an advantage for you having not faced them or an advantage for them having not faced you?

BUD SMITH: Yeah, I mean, I've got to go and watch the films and I do that for every start.  So I will do a little more for these guys.  They have a few more lefties in the lineup, and I'll see what kind of lineup they put in tomorrow and just be ready for them.  First time around, getting my feet wet.  I'm going to feel around and see what's going to happen.

Q.  Did your life change at all after throwing the no-hitter, just being out in public?

BUD SMITH: I mean, it kind of still hasn't hit me that I threw that no-hitter.  It happened so fast.  We moved on, winning games to get to where we are at.  I won't have a chance to look back until the season is over.  I'm still in awe, on a different cloud that I did that.  It hasn't really changed so much, I'm going out there and going about my business. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT