TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 3, 2018
Alex Levy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Your thoughts, please, on a third round of 66.
ALEX LEVY: I think I played good golf today.  I really enjoy it.  I really enjoy to hit the shots.  I holed some nice putts, so it's the most pleased things I do today was holing putts.
Q. You've talked about this putting quite a lot.  Obviously the changes that you've made and the confidence that's building, how excited about the future, because we know you're a winner already five times on a tour and putting has always been a bit of an Achilles heel.  How exciting now that the putting seems to be on the up-and-up?
ALEX LEVY: I think it's good.  I practice hard.  I want to be on the top, so yeah, I just need patience and I think that will be the key.  I feel good, but expectation with this game, it's a very difficult game, so you need to be patient, and yeah, for sure, the putting helped to build a good score.
Q. Haotong is leading, but you've shot 64 here before.  Can you draw on that tomorrow and use that experience to shoot another low one?
ALEX LEVY: Yeah, I like the golf course.  I like to play aggressive.  For sure tomorrow, I will need a low one, but I will stay patient and try my best.
Q. A 66 moves you right back into the hunt.  You talked earlier in the week about making a grip change with your putting.  Can you talk about the changes and how they paid off this week?
ALEX LEVY: They paid a lot.  When you make putts, you build confidence.  That's the difference.  Like the example, say today on 16, it was a great save, made this huge putt to stay 14-under, it's an example, but I think putting helps a lot to build a good score.
Q. You were bogey-free since the 11th hole on Thursday.  How important has that been?
ALEX LEVY: I think I play steady and aggressive.  Some holes I play steady and some I go for it.  I feel good, two days in a row, bogey-free, it's really good.  I will try my best tomorrow to have another one.
Q. What is the plan going into tomorrow?
ALEX LEVY: I think doing what I do the last three days.  Play really good golf.  Just stay patient and we'll see what happens.  Haotong is a really good player.  He can make a lot of birdies.  We will see what happens.  I will try my best and play some good golf.
Q. A 66, you must be pleased with the way things are going so far?
ALEX LEVY: Yeah, I'm really pleased.  I played solid golf.  I really enjoy this course.  It was nice with Thorbjørn today to enjoy, and no, it was really nice to play a good golf and hole some putts.
Q. That's 43 holes without a dropped shot on this course, as well.  It clearly suits your eye.
ALEX LEVY: It's nothing to say, it's good.  I like this course.  I know when I need to be study and I know when I can be aggressive.  So I will try to follow that tomorrow and yeah, you don't know what can happen tomorrow.  Just play golf and we'll see.
Q. You mentioned the other day about changing your putting grip.  How pleasing is it that that's working for you almost immediately?
ALEX LEVY: I was feeling great last week.  It was my first week with these greens, and I say to my coach, I feel great.  I think I find a good solution, and this week works really good.  I can only think now, not technique, just only about pacing and break, so that's really nice.  It's easy to do that on the putting.
Q. Three shots back in a Rolex Series Event, how excited are you to challenge for the title tomorrow?
ALEX LEVY: It will be nice to challenge Haotong.  It will be nice to play with these two guys, nice guys and great players.  I'm looking forward and yeah, I just got to focus to play my best game I have, and we'll see what happens.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT