TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 2, 2018
Alex Levy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What pleased you most about your play?  
ALEX LEVY: The putting, I felt really good on the greens.  I worked really hard the last few months because I struggled a lot on greens.  I changed everything with my coach, Phil Kenyon.  I changed everything, my grip, my posture.  I started last week with a new grip and that felt really good and I start to hole some putts, so that's good.   
 Q.  How nice to try a new grip like that and be able to produce birdies immediately?  Gives you confidence, doesn't it?  
ALEX LEVY: Yeah, for sure.  I was having a big fault technique under the pressure on putting, so it's nice.  It's helped me to be better.  It's you hole some putts because golf is about putting when you want to play well.   
 Q.  We know you love to play aggressively.  In this situation on this golf course, how aggressive will you be this weekend?  
ALEX LEVY: You just need to be careful on three or four pins on two or three holes.  Apart that, you just need to go to the flag.  It's the game I like.  I'm pleased with this situation and I try to hit the best shot I can.   
 Q.  You got off to a great start today, 4-under through seven holes and it all slowed down a little bit for you.  But it's still an excellent round of golf you put together.  
ALEX LEVY: Yeah, I started really good.  My iron game was really impressive on the first seven holes.  I almost holed two shots.  It was really good.  But the good point is I feel my putting is really good.  So I say I make two 3-putts under ten foot for par to keep my round really good, and to save the round with no bogeys today.   
 Q.  And that was very close to being another birdie on 18 there.  That was quite agonising to see that one slip by.  
ALEX LEVY: Yeah, it was a great putt.  It's like what I say, I hit a lot of good putts today.  This one don't get in, but I'm sure during the weekend, I hit one don't really good, and it will be in.   
In golf, you need to be patient and try your best at every shot.   
 Q.  It's been a rough few weeks for you, I know.  What's been the major difference these first few days from previous weeks?  
ALEX LEVY: I feel better on the putting, so it helps to enjoy a little bit more this game.  You can be more aggressive, and it's the way I like to play golf.  My last few months was terrible on the green, so it's nice to putt two rounds in a row with struggling putting over the level, so that's good.   
 Q.  You shot a 64 here on Saturday last year.  That would be very nice tomorrow in putting you in good position for this championship?  
ALEX LEVY: I thank you to bring that memory.  I didn't remember, so that's good.  I just play good golf.  I just try to focus on my game and to make the best shot I can at every shot.   
It's a lovely golf course.  The weather is perfect, so it's perfect to play golf.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT