HNA OPEN DE FRANCE
June 29, 2017
Alex Levy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 2-under par, what pleased you most about your play today?
ALEX LEVY: I'm happy.  It was really tough today.  Especially when you play in front of the crowd, it's not easy.  But I played solid golf.  I was feeling not really good when I start the day, but I just focused to play and enjoy, and that's what I did.  The chip-in on 3 helped me to make this eagle, but it's a good opening.
Q. Some French players talk about the expectation weighing heavy; they feel the responsibility to play well.  Others say it inspires them.  Obviously it sounds like you were the former.  What about the sort you got out there?  It was terrific.
ALEX LEVY: Yeah, it was really nice.  I think tomorrow will be much better.  It's nice to play like that, but when it don't go in a good way, it's tough, because you want to play good in front of your crowd, yeah.
Q. Just describe the chip-in you had at the third hole.  You were walking almost before the bottom hit the bottom of the hole.
ALEX LEVY: Yeah, I just do the chip, and I feel I touch good, and they land exactly where I want.  And I was thinking I have the chance to make it and I make it.  That was nice.
Q. You said The French Open does your favourite tournament of the year, but not just because it's the French Open.  Why?
ALEX LEVY: Because the course is very nice and it's very tough for me.  It's a course -- it's the most difficult course of the year.  I have a lot of pressure from the tee, from the second shot you need to play very steady golf.  I prefer target golf.  For that, it's tough for me.
Q. I think you said in the buildup that this golf course scared you.  You looked pretty comfortable out there today at times.
ALEX LEVY: Maybe I looks, but it's what I feel.  I feel it's tough, especially when you play in front of the crowd.  Makes you more pressure, and because you want to play well and you know it's your week.
With the 2-under today, I'm really happy to shoot this today.
Q. It's a good start and it's a tournament you haven't finished particularly high in.  In your national championship, how important is it to you to finish well?
ALEX LEVY: It means a lot.  I say one of my dream is to win this tournament.  You need to be patient because it's a really long wait and really tough.  I hope one day I will have the chance to win this tournament.
Q. You talk about the final four holes being tough today.  You played them 1-under par having started on the back nine, so that must have been pleasing.
ALEX LEVY: Yeah, I got lucky on 16.  I was thinking my ball was in the water but just stayed like ten centimeters from the water and I make the putt.  That was my lucky part.  I think it's the four toughest holes in a row, and you just need to be patient and play steady on these holes.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT