CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 20, 2014
Bret Lasky
Mike Nichols
Sadena Parks
Marissa Steen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  BRET LASKY:   We're going to get started.   Thank you for giving us this platform today.   My name s a Bret Laskey, and I'm the coordinator for the Symetra Tour. 
State of Symetra Tour.   Happy to be here and we appreciate you guys giving us this platform.   It's a very busy week with a lot of the storylines and a lot for you guys to cover.   We appreciate the few moments today. 
Couple things we want to do today, one, we want to showcase the growth of the Symetra Tour from a schedule standpoint, a purse standpoint, and a visibility standpoint.   Mike Nichols has done a tremendous job with that. 
We'll introduce the three up here and the five in the back in a second. 
Secondly, we want to show occasion our Symetra Tour graduates from 2014 and those that will be 2015 LPGA Tour rookies. 
Let me introduce the three up with me, and then the five LPGA rookies for 2015 in the back.
To my immediate right Sadena Parks who won twice on the Symetra Tour in 2014; had five Top 10 finishes.
Marissa Steen, who was the Symetra Player of the year, No. 1 on the Money List, won three times in 2014. 
To her right is the chief business officer the Symetra Tour, Mike Nichols. 
Kendall Dye Edmond, Oklahoma, who picked up her first career win in 2014.   She'll be on the LPGA Tour next year.
To her left is Jackie Stoetling, finished third on the Symetra Tour Money List in 2014. 
Min Lee, Symetra Tour Rookie of the Year is back there.
Demi Runas, who had a tremendous final day to get her LPGA Tour card.
And then Wei‑Ling Hsu who won the biggest event of the year is also back there.
There has been 31 events on the LPGA Tour this year‑‑ and this might open up to a little bit to the success of the Symetra Tour‑‑ 15 the 31 events on the LPGA Tour this year have been won by a player with Symetra Tour ties.
A lot of good things happening on the Symetra Tour and leading to LPGA Tour success. 
Mike, I'll start with you.   How about just some opening comments about the tour and where you started three years ago to where we were today.
MIKE NICHOLS:   Thank you for coming in today.   In terms of the numbers, what Bret was talking about when we look at the success of the Symetra Tour, I think the field here this week really speaks to what the Symetra Tour is all about and the success of the tour more than anything I could say.
We got a field of 69 players here this week, and of those 69, 35 have ties to the Symetra Tour.   So when you look at why the tour began and why the tour continues to exist, it's to prepare the next generation of LPGA Tour stars for success and give them the opportunity to raise your game and improve their skills.
In a lot of cases, as Sadena and Marissa would attest to, not every player is ready to come out from the junior or amateur ranks and join the LPGA right away like Lydia Ko or Lexi Thompson, or Michelle Wie. 
For some players they have to take the college route.   Some will do the college route and then put a couple Symetra Tour years on there as well.
At the end of the day, the fact that we have so many players with Symetra Tour ties in our Tour Championship here on the LPGA speaks to the success of what we're trying to achieve on the Symetra Tour. 
BRET LASKY:   How about today?   As you sit here today and about three months away from opening the 2015 season, give us the state of Symetra Tour 2014, the successes, and where the tour is heading for 2015.
MIKE NICHOLS:   Well, the success of the Symetra Tour, or I should say the state of the Symetra Tour and the story of the Symetra Tour, closely parallels where our big sister, the LPGA, has been the last couple of years. 
Just two years ago in 2013 we had a 15‑event schedule.   To call it a schedule is probably a little bit generous.   It was more of a hodge podge of tournaments all over the place.
We would play for a week, take four weeks off, play for a week, and take another tour weeks off.
So at the end of the day where it was sort of crystalized for me a player was when I was talking to one of our players who had come over from Europe to play here.   After graduating from college here in the U.S. she went back to Europe to play. 
I asked her why, and she said as a foreign player, the current schedule didn't allow her to invest the time or money in trying to gain the LPGA Tour card through the Symetra Tour.
As the head of tour, that was really a kick in the gut.   Because when we have top players from around the world here, we want to keep them here and hopefully groom them for success on the LPGA Tour through our tour as opposed to having them going back to the LET tour or whatever their home tour might be and then taking their shot at Q‑School. 
So about two and a half years ago when I started with the tour, at the first player meeting I committed to them that there were four things that we were going to focus on as far as our goals for growing the Symetra Tour. 
So our goal were to play more tournaments for more money with better golf courses with a better geographic flow flows.   I am happy to report that in those four areas we've seen a lot of success.
Our 2015 schedule next year we'll play a minimum of 23 times, which will be the most tournaments that we've played in the last 27 years on the Symetra Tour.   So we're going all the way back to 1988 when we've had more tournaments than that.   As you can guess.   The purses weren't even 20% of what they are today.
So we're fortunate that we've been able to grow the schedule.   Then you think 27 years ago the majority of our players on our tour weren't even alive when we had more tournaments.   So it's quite an accomplishment that our team has been able to grow the schedule as much as we have.
In terms of playing for more money, 2015 will be the second consecutive year we've played for the highest total purses and the highest average purses in tour history.
So what we're ultimately able to do there is from 2013 to 2015 the total purses of the tour have increased by 71% during that time. 
Now, I'll be the first person to admit that we have a lot of work to do on purses and getting it to the point where these ladies are able to sort of sustain themselves better on the Symetra Tour.
Our first priority was to grow the schedule so we had a legitimate schedule, and ultimately from there we'll be able to grow purses.
Third thing I talked about was improving the quality of the golf courses on which we play.   Next year when we have 23 tournaments we will actually have 17 new events from what we had just three years ago. 
In the course of that time, what we've been able to do is evaluate the golf courses that we're currently playing and try to make sure that the golf courses we're adding to the schedule are ones where the quality and the caliber of the golf course is such that it's an LPGA‑caliber facility.
At the end of the day, if what we're trying to do is prepare these ladies for success on the LPGA Tour, we need to be testing them week in and week out on LPGA‑caliber facilities.
So as I look just at the three events that we've announced for this year, our events in Arkansas as well in South Dakota, both of those golf courses are ranked amongst the top public facilities in their respective states.
Then our event in Rochester is going to be held at a great‑kept second up there, a Donald Ross golf courses.
Ultimately these golf courses that we're adding to our schedule are ones that could host a LPGA Tour event tomorrow.
Lastly, talking about the geographic flow, much like Mike has done on the LPGA Tour, we've tried to build starts and stops into the schedule.   Might play for three weeks at a time and take a week off; play four weeks at a time and take another week off. 
The goal there is to play in certain pockets of the country where we can play in a region, take a week off while we transition to another region.   It's important for us from a staffing schedule because all of our equipment moves over the roads.   We don't play fly from event to event, and our players typically drive from event to event. 
So in order to make the schedule manageable for not only our staff but players, the geographic flow has been in important, and that's what we've been working on.
BRET LASKY:   And, Mike, you've been a really busy man.   You just flew in from El Dorado, Arkansas and got here today and just announced a new event in El Dorado on Tuesday.   Murphy USA the title sponsor of that event. 
Talk to us about the partnerships that the Symetra Tour has been able to forge with companies. 
MIKE NICHOLS:   We are very fortunate, and Murphy USA is a perfect example.   Started three years ago with Symetra Financial.   Shen Symetra Financial came on board as our umbrella sponsor, they were the biggest company to have ever done business with the Symetra Tour. 
They just finished their third year of their initial three‑year contract with us, and they have renewed up through '17.   That also includes two events that they title sponsor. 
So having a company like Symetra partner with us also attracts other top companies.   Murphy USA, as you mentioned.   They have 1200 stores stories around the country, convenience and gas stations that are out in front of Wal‑Marts or Sam's Club.   They're No. 175 in the Fortune 500.
Then also with Chico's, who we partnered with for the first time last year, a major women's clothing retailer who came on board as a Symetra Tour partner last year.   And has since, as you may have seen last week, agreed to host a Legends Tour side by side with a Symetra Tour event.
So we're very fortunate that as we've had success there are companies that are looking at our tour ‑ of all sizes ‑ and they're saying this is a great opportunity for their company to partner with us and support these young ladies as they chase their dream of playing on the LPGA Tour, while hopefully helping them provide the opportunity to achieve their corporate goals.
BRET LASKY:   Let's talk to some of the players here.   I will start with you, Sadena, and then Marissa you can take this question as well.   I think the great thing about the Symetra Tour is it allows you the opportunity to grow, and both of you are perfect examples of that. 
Sadena, you were 99th on the Volvick Race for the Card Money List in 2013, and in 2014 you finished 4th.   Talk to us about your growth as a player and your growth on the Symetra Tour.
SADENA PARKS:   That's really good question.   So it all obviously helped out tremendously learning the travel schedule, having tournaments week to week.   Symetra Tour really prepared us for that. 
Then geographic, like you were saying, driving to tournaments, funding.   But most importantly I learned to stick with a consistent caddie.   My coach actually started to travel with me and to prepare for the courses and the certain type of grass, whatever it may be.
But I learned a lot from the first year and my schedule and what works for me and having someone else help me with travel and take care of those things so I can just focus on golf.
BRET LASKY:   How about for you Marissa? 
MARISSA STEEN:   Yeah, I think the Symetra Tour gave me a great platform in order to improve my game. 
Like Mike had said earlier, I was never really a highly ranked junior, amateur, or even college player. 
But I really wanted to play professionally, so I kept improving each round Symetra, and it really gave me a great opportunity to test my skills in a competitive environment week in and week out. 
Even for me playing 15 or 20 weeks a year was huge for me in order to develop my game.   As Sadena said, the travel and just adjusting and figuring out what you need to do each week in order play your best. 
You know, in order to be in the top 10 you have to play well week in and week out.   So it's really kind of a trial and error thing to figure out what works best for you.   I think the tour life on Symetra Tour is a great platform and great learning block or learning place really to prepare for LPGA.
BRET LASKY:   Sadena, you've been on the Symetra Tour a couple years; Marissa, you were on the tour for three years.   Mike talking about some of the changes that have taken place on tour, from a players' perspective, what have you seen?   How has the tour been elevated from a players' standpoint?
SADENA PARKS:   Adding tournaments like week to week where it's more consistent something similar to out here.
The purses. 
The quality of the courses.
But I think most importantly they're comparing it to the LPGA and helping us grow in that aspect, so after the Symetra Tour when we do graduate, we are prepared. 
And especially most importantly media, they really help promote us, the Symetra Tour.   I think you guys do really, really good job on that.
So getting used to the media and fitting that in with my schedule when I have to meet with you guys, when I have to play, when I have to practice, when I have to prepare. 
I think the media, for me, has helped out tremendously. 
MARISSA STEEN:   Yeah, same with Sadena.   I used to be really uncomfortable in front of the media, but having the opportunities, especially this season, has helped me out a lot.
As far as the growth of the tour over the last three years, my first year we had 16 events; last year 15; this year 20.   So just seeing the growth and all of the new courses added in my time out on the Symetra were great.   Asheville Country Club was a great addition.
The course in South Bend was a great addition.   Those are just two examples off the top of my head.   Like the staff I think does a great job and are very attentive. 
I think the thing that has kind of eased me the most is that the regulations out on Symetra Tour, each year they've made more and more that are close to the LPGA so the transition is really easy when we come out here.
Like Mike was saying, this year was the first two $200,000 purse on the Symetra Tour.   When South Bend came in in 2013 with $150,000 that was the biggest. 
So it's kind of cool to see the growth and see the tournaments kind of trying to one up each other and do a better job.   That's a cool feeling as a player, knowing that the tournament sponsors are really excited.
I think the Symetra Tour is in a good place.   I know it still has some room for growth, but I think it keeps getting better every year.
BRET LASKY:   All right.   So now, Symetra Tour, you guys are graduates and getting ready for the 2015 LPGA season.   You've been here for a couple days and you're going through some training and kind of get to know the LPGA.   As you kind of look forward to 2015 ‑ I see you got a smile on your face already‑ what are you looking forward to in 2015 out here?
SADENA PARKS:   Just being around this environment.   I'm sure the other rookies will agree.   It does bring a smile to our face.   We're really looking forward to it.
I think we're looking forward to, again, the purses, the atmosphere, the venues, the competition. 
You know, this is the top of the top when it comes to women's golf, the LPGA Tour.   And we're playing amongst the best.   I think we're really, really happy and prepared for that. 
MARISSA STEEN:   I know that's what I'm most excited for, is just to be in some of the strongest fields in the world week in and week out and getting to test my skills against some of the top players in the world every single time I tee it up.
So that's what I'm looking most forward to. 
And specific goals?   I mean, definitely be in the top 80 so I can keep my card so I don't have to go to Q‑School again.   I think that's everybody's goal, right? 
That's my main one.   Just to come out and have fun and really stay true to myself and not feel like I have to necessarily do what the top 20 players are doing every single week because I'm different to them.   You know, just stick to my laurels and what's gotten me to where I am today.
SADENA PARKS:   I'm adding to that.   The Symetra Tour, again, prepared us is much for this time in our lives.   We're making sure we bring what we learned from the Symetra Tour and how we grew to the next 2015 season on the LPGA.
BRET LASKY:   Sadena, final question for you.   What sort of the goals do you put on yourself?   I remember a few interviews you did where a few people asked you about them.   You said, Look, I want to win.   I want to succeed.   I want to do well out on the LPGA.   Do you put those types of goals on yourself for 2015?
SADENA PARKS:   Of course, and that hasn't changed.   I'm out here to prepare to win and I have so much to learn and so much to grow.   But I think there are 38‑plus tournaments out here and someone has to win. 
So I'm prepared to go out there and win a few, to have fun most importantly, and like I was saying, take what I learned on the Symetra Tour and how I grew and grow that a little bit more as well.
BRET LASKY:   Mike, any final thoughts from you?
MIKE NICHOLS:   As I mentioned, we've experienced a lot of growth on the Symetra Tour.   At the end of the day, the reason that companies choose to partner with the Symetra Tour is the opportunity to meet these players before they become stars on the LPGA Tour. 
You can see why we're proud to have them as our alums of the tour.   I just want to say thank you personally to all of them.   S we grow the schedule, these are the players here in this room who we rely on to meet with new partners and have ultimately grow the tour.
Thank you ladies, and the to ladies in the back for what you've given to the tour in your time out there.
SADENA PARKS:   Thank you. 
BRET LASKY:   And I think they'll all be available if you have questions after. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT