PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 8, 2003
Meghann Shaughnessy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  It was sort of a weird match in some ways.  There seemed to be different momentum switches.  You both were a bit on, off.  What is your take on it, how it went down?

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Yeah, definitely.  I think there were a lot of momentum swings in the match.  In the beginning, in the first set, we were both kind of holding first serves, then we had a couple breaks towards the end of the first set.  Then after the first set, I really had the momentum.  I think I gave it back to her.  I played a sloppy first game, she got it going, she played some good games to get up 3-0.  Overall, I'm happy with the way I played.

Q.  Were you on your game?  Was everything fine with you?  Did she really sort of fall off? 

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Well, I had a pretty clear game plan with what I wanted to do before I went out on the court, and I followed that very well.  I think that made it difficult for her to play her game.

Q.  What was your game plan?

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  I usually don't say (laughter).  But I wanted to control the points with my forehand, because she's got a big forehand, too.  I knew whoever was running around and playing aggressive with their forehand was going to be the aggressor of the match.  That was the number one thing I wanted to do.

Q.  You've improved here every single year coming off Scottsdale.  Is it a comfort zone for you to come off of there and be home, come here, or is it just totally opposite, you have to take one match, one tournament at a time?

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Not really.  I obviously love to play at home.  I always look forward to that week.  It's just really, really exciting for me.  I drive here in my own car.  It takes three and a half hours from my house.  So it's a really comfortable couple weeks for me.  But I take every week the same.  You know, it's a long year and I just have to be ready to perform every week.

Q.  So it's just been a natural progression for you to continue to move up?

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Yeah, that's kind of been the way my whole career has been.  It's been a gradual improvement every year. 

Q.  Next round. 

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  I don't know, you'll have to tell me who it is.  I haven't looked. 

Q.  I just want to know if you're the type of person who looks. 

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  No, I usually don't.

Q.  It's a wide-open tournament at this time.  There's a lot of people missing.  A lot of opportunities for those that are here. 

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Yeah, I wouldn't say it's wide-open.  I mean, we've got a lot of people who are playing great tennis.  But, you know, an opportunity is what you make of it.  So I feel like I'm playing great tennis.  I've been playing well all year, so I'm looking forward to see what I can do here.

Q.  Was it tough going through that week in Scottsdale with all the rain and the waiting?

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Yeah, it was.  I mean, I can't believe how much it rained there last week.  It set all kinds of records for Scottsdale, that's for sure.  But everyone's in the same boat there.  We all had to wait.  It's tough, going on and off the court, expecting to play at 10 and playing 6 at night.  Everyone's in the same situation, so no complaints.

Q.  It won't be like that here. 

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  No, apparently not. 

Q.  Compare playing somebody like Kim Clijsters and Daniilidou.  I think your last match in Scottsdale was against Kim.  It seems like she takes more of the pace off, gives you some slice, some floaters, whereas someone like Kim hits hard and deep. 

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Yeah, I mean it's hard to compare those two because they have a completely different style of game.

Q.  Do you prefer playing against one or the other? 

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Not really.  It's different.  I mean, I don't usually focus on what the other player is doing to me because I know when I focus on myself and what I can do ,that it doesn't matter what they do.  So that's always what, you know, my priority is. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT