AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2003
Meghann Shaughnessy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question, please.  
 
 
Q.  When you play somebody like her, obviously beforehand there's a lot of doubts, thinking about what you're going to do.  Would you do anything differently now that you can sit down, having played the match, anything you regret about what you did or planned to do before you went out there? 
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  No, I actually had a good plan in mind.  You know, in the first set I really didn't feel like I was playing very badly.  She just came out there really aggressive.  She looked very confident from the beginning.  So it was, you know, all credit to her.  I think she played a great match. 
 
Q.  She said you played well, if that means anything to you?
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  I think she's being nice (laughing).  No, but it's true, I mean, in the beginning I really didn't feel like I was able to do anything.  Towards the end of the first set and second set I had some chances that I didn't use, and I should have been much more aggressive.  But she played really well.  
 
Q.  How do you prepare for a level of power that's just not like any of the other players on tour are going to give you?
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  It's an adjustment, that's also what I felt.  I've been here playing in Australia for three weeks now, playing great tennis.  In the beginning it was a little bit of a shock how fast the ball was coming.  It was coming with a lot more power than anyone I played here so far.  You just have to be alert and ready and expect what's coming.  
 
Q.  Despite the loss, are you obviously pretty happy with what you've achieved here?
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Yeah, I had a great start to the year.  Started in Canberra, played great there, came here, and it's my first quarterfinal, so I am very happy with that.  But I have a lot of work to do to get where I want to be. 
 
Q.  Does it make you feel any better to know this is the best she's played here? 
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Not really.  I mean, you know, I'm focused on myself.  I didn't do a lot of things today that I would have liked to do.  So I'm disappointed with that.  But it's a good learning experience and I'll do much better next time. 
 
Q.  Was that due to her, that you didn't do these things that you wanted to do?
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  It was, partially.  In the first set, I just said earlier that I didn't feel like I was doing anything wrong.  She was just playing great.  But there were  -- she gave me a couple openings that I didn't take, and I'll take them next time. 
 
Q.  When you're facing this kind of power, do you reach the end of the match saying, "I really wish we could keep going.  I think I'm getting it"? 
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Yeah, that was going through my mind, actually.  Yeah, I wouldn't say I was getting it, but I was starting to feel a little more comfortable.  Like I said, it's just a learning process.  I'm going to take today and go home and work really hard and come back better.  
 
Q.  Want to play her again?
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Of course.  
 
Q.  You mentioned you've got work to do.  How do you bridge the gap between yourselves and these power players that are dominating women's tennis? 
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  It's not all power.  I mean, I feel like I have the weapons to play at the top level as well.  Just I need to go out there and have the confidence to use them.  
 
Q.  What sort of work will you be doing?  You said you had a lot of work to do. 
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Everything.  I'm always working on everything.  I think that, you know, no matter how great I play a match or a tournament, there's always things to work on.  That's what I mean by that.  
 
Q.  Just wondering if nerves played a factor in the match at all today?  To me it looked like you couldn't really find any rhythm for a good portion of the match.  Maybe that was just her. 
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Yeah, it was her.  She was, you know, playing at another speed.  I was a little bit nervous.  But I really get nervous for just about every match I play, so I can't say that that was the reason.  
 
Q.  You had trouble on her serve a couple times, you had her 15-30, things like that a few times.  Do you feel she steps up a level when she feels she's in trouble?  She finds another level, next thing you know the game's gone.
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Definitely.  That's why she is where she is.  All great players, when it's a breakpoint or key point or important game or whatever, they always pick up the level. 
 
Q.  At the end of the game, do you go, "Geez, there's an opportunity missed"?  That you wish you could have it back and do it differently?
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Definitely, there are things that I would have loved to have done better today. 
 
Q.  Second or third game before last in the match, you hit two service winners.  That must have made you feel good? 
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Well, I really didn't find the range on my serve much today at all.  There in the end I hit a couple good serves, but I just  -- I haven't seen the stats yet.  I don't know what my first serve percentage was, but I'm sure it was very low.  That was another problem, was that I was hitting too many second serves, to start the point already on the defensive, because she was attacking my second serve a lot, is not a good thing to do. 
 
Q.  You returned her serve, for winners.  I used the words wrong. 
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Oh, okay.  The second...?  
 
Q.  The second, third to the last game. 
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Yeah, I mean, that's the way I like to play, is really look for my forehand on the return and attack it.  That's another great thing she did today, is she was mixing up the serves.  I didn't really know where it was coming, serving me out wide so I couldn't cheat to my backhand side a little bit.  She really did well with that as well. 
 
Q.  Going back to the preparation, can your hitting partner replicate them, or do you have to be out there and sort of experience it firsthand before you can start getting reads? 
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  I mean, you can do your best.  I mean, definitely closer to play with men that are more powerful.  It's a little bit better.  But it's more just being out there.  And it's not the same to have it in practice as it is in a match either, so... 
 
Q.  Who's your choice to win the tournament now? 
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:   You know, that's hard to say.  That's impossible.  I mean, there's  -- everyone's playing such great tennis, both Justine and Kim, Venus and Serena.  I mean, they all have a chance.  
 
Q.  Your performance here, will you adjust your goals for the year?
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  No, I've got the same goals I started the year with. 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT