FED CUP - AUSTRIA vs USA
April 28, 2002
Meghann Shaughnessy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Can you talk about you had a matchpoint.  What happened on that play?  
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  It was tough, you know.  She  -- it was a long point.  Then she threw it up in the air, the wind was kind of swirling around.  I didn't take enough steps and missed it in the net.  
 
Q.  How disappointing is this for you right now personally?
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  It's very disappointing.  You know, I fought hard but wasn't feeling the ball well today, and it's really unfortunate.  
 
Q.  What has this week been like for you, just up  and down, and up and down? 
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Well, obviously the situation with Capriati was disappointing, but I had a fun week, you know.  It's my first time playing Fed Cup, and I had a great time with Monica and Lisa and Billie and everyone else that was here with us.  I hope that I'll have the opportunity again.  
 
Q.  Meghann, do you feel like you let it slip away, or did she just kind of take the match from you? 
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  A little bit of both.  Like I said, I didn't feel like I was playing that well today.  I gave it everything I had, but, you know, she played well.  I have to give some credit to her, too.  
 
Q.  Just talk about the third set.  Even though you lost that second-set tiebreaker, you got yourself to the third set.  Did you feel like you had opportunities there?
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Oh, definitely.  I had opportunities through the whole match.  I was very disappointed after losing the second set, but I started off well.  We played tight the whole set.  
 
Q.  Did you have a problem with any of the line calls? 
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  A few of them were close, but that's  -- I don't want to get into that.  
 
Q.  When you had chances to close out the match - and you had a few of those  - did you feel an extra set of nerves there?  Not just on the matchpoint, but you had other games when it seemed like you were ready to take it. 
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Yeah, I feel like I played too tentative today.  I didn't go for all my shots when I needed to, and that was the difference.  
 
Q.  Barbara was talking about how she couldn't believe that little Austria had beaten the United States.  Kind of sum up your feelings about that. 
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Yeah, it's, you know... They were obviously the underdogs here.  And, like I said, you know, a lot of things went for them from the very beginning with Capriati, and then  -- but, you know, all credit to Schwartz.  She played great tennis yesterday  - I watched that match  - and today.  I almost had it, but she kept on fighting and played well.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about your disappointment with what happened with Capriati.  Are you disappointed with the ruling?  Are you disappointed that it came to that?  Can you explain that?
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  I'm just disappointed that it came to that.  You know, there's no reason why we shouldn't have four people here and all with the same goal in mind.  But, like I said, I had a great week and I wouldn't trade it for anything.  I'm going to keep working hard and get back into this situation again.  
 
Q.  Do you think the pressure of knowing when you got on court that you needed to win this match to keep the team in it was a little too much? 
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Well, it was definitely an added pressure, but, you know, that's... All tennis players deal with that every day.  There's pressure in any tournament, any event, to play for yourself, to play for your country.  It's just something that everybody has to deal with.  
 
Q.  The loss aside, have you acquired a taste for Fed Cup?  I mean, is it exciting to you, something that you'd like to really become a banner-waver for? 
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  I really would.  You know, I wasn't sure what to expect this week.  And I really, really enjoyed myself.  You know, the crowd was great today.  They were behind me the whole time.  And it's so unique, as a tennis player, to be able to play for a team.  I think it's a great, great thing, and I hope I'll have the chance to do it again.  
 
Q.  What did Billie Jean say to you after the match? 
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  She said, "Tough one."  I mean... You know, I gave it all I had.  Didn't play like I wanted to.  But, you know, I did everything that I could.  It was just tough that things work that way sometimes.  
 
Q.  She's ranked No. 75.  Her level seems to be quite a bit higher than that.  Can you just talk about her game a little bit. 
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Yeah, she's a great player.  She's ranked 75 but I think she's been injured for most of the year so I don't think that really reflects where she is.  But, you know, when she gets playing with confidence, she can really hit the ball.  It's not easy.  
 
Q.  Have you spoken to Jennifer since she left? 
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  No, I haven't.  
 
Q.  If you could, what would you want to say to her? 
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  You know, I just... You know, I'd like to ask her, you know, why she didn't want to follow the team rules and, you know, if it was worth it for her to trade that.  
 
Q.  Do you agree with Billie Jean's decision to dismiss her from the team? 
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Yes, I do.  
 
Q.  Lisa Raymond said yesterday that the team supported Billie completely all the way.  Even if you lost, it was worth taking the stand on principle.  Do you agree with that?
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  I do.  The bottom line is that when we came here, there were a set of rules signed on for each player.  It was Jennifer's decision not to follow one of them.  That's her decision, and that's fine.  But if she's going to make that decision, she needs to know that there are consequences.  
 
Q.  Back to the match, in the third set you were very dominant on serve.  You went through at least three straight games where you didn't give her a point.  Did your game go down a little bit?  Did you feel like she just got a good range on your serve?  What happened there? 
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Well, serving wasn't my problem; it was the returning that I was having more trouble with.  I couldn't find the range on my return.  And, yeah, the whole third set I served fine.  I was a little bit unlucky when she broke me, but the main problem was my returning.  I wasn't able to get myself in a position to break.  
 
Q.  And there were a lot of unforced errors also from both sides.  What do you attribute that to?
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  It was a long match.  Even the first two sets were very long.  Our legs probably weren't where we thought they were towards the end of the third set.  
 
Q.  Do you go at a third set that doesn't have a tiebreak differently than you would with a third set that has one? 
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Not really.  It's just the only difference is you need to just keep grinding, and it takes a little bit longer. 
 
Q.  Meghann, you took a couple tough losses in Slams last year.  It seems today you're probably more upset than you were then.  Does this really rank up high with some of your bigger disappointments? 
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  It does, you know.  It's the first time that I've felt the pressure of, you know, playing for a team and for my country.  But I love it, and I really hope that I have the chance to have this opportunity again and use it a little bit better.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT