FED CUP - AUSTRIA vs USA
April 27, 2002
Meghann Shaughnessy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BRUCE LEVY:  Questions for Meghann. 


Q.  Big match tomorrow, huh?  Didn't expect to be in this spot? 

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Yeah, I definitely didn't.  It's, you know, unfortunate that we're down 2-0.  But the three of us are going to go out there tomorrow and give it our all and try to turn things around.

Q.  How do you feel about going out there, with you pretty much having the tie in your hands the first match?

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  I feel great.  I'm excited for the opportunity.  You know, I'm just going to focus on my tennis and play well tomorrow.  And, like I said, I hope that we can have a great day and turn this thing around. 

Q.  Two of your teammates said they were kind of upset about the situation.  Monica was talking about the pressure of playing today after what happened with Jennifer.  Are you, yourself, upset about it?  Are you going to be able to leave it behind tomorrow?

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  I'm going to leave it behind tomorrow.  But I agree.  It's, you know, unfortunate, what happened.  It's put us all in a little bit of a difficult situation.  But we're going to go out there tomorrow and forget about everything that's happened off the court and just focus on tennis.

Q.  How did you get the news, and what was your reaction initially? 

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  It's something that had been coming all week, so I wasn't shocked.  But that's it...

Q.  Did you agree with the decision? 

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  I really don't want to go into that.  It's, you know, we have team rules and Jennifer decided not to follow one of them.  That's the bottom line.  That's it. 

Q.  Meghann, you haven't played your best tennis results-wise since the middle of last summer.  Is that injury-related?  Is it you were just a little bit overplaying?  Did you lose a little bit of confidence?  Do you feel your "A" game coming now? 

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Yeah.  I've just, you know, I've had some tough matches the last few weeks.  And my back injury in January was obviously a factor in the beginning.  But, you know, I'm playing well now.  I'm hitting the ball well.  There's no reason why I shouldn't have a great year.

Q.  Is the back 100% now?

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Yes. 

Q.  Is this the type of thing that could propel you to a good year? 

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  For sure.  You know, I'm very excited for tomorrow.  I'm hoping we're going to have a great day. 

Q.  I remember talking to you last summer, you weren't sure if you'd ever play Fed Cup.  Can you talk about whether it's special for you, how you like being on the team. 

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  It is very special for me, you know, especially with the team that we have.  It's really an honor, you know.  America's so strong in tennis, and it's, you know, really an honor for me to be a part of the team.  I'm looking forward to it, and I hope I have the chance to play more ties in the future. 

Q.  Does this week color your decision to play down the road?  You know, this week's dismissal, has it affected your feeling about Fed Cup? 

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Well, it was definitely a disappointment.  But despite it, I've had a great week.  I've spent a lot of good time with Monica and Billie and Lisa and all of our support staff here.  I've had a great week despite what's happened.  I'm not going to let that affect my  -- if I play in the future or not. 

Q.  What do you think are your chances of winning tomorrow?  I mean, all three matches.

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  I think we have a very good chance.  We just have to take it one at a time and worry about tennis.  We have a very good chance to pull it through tomorrow. 

Q.  Do you think the crowd will be a factor?  A lot of people probably came here expecting to see Jennifer.  Do you think they'll be disappointed? 

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Yeah, I'm sure they're disappointed not to watch Jennifer play.  I mean, she's a great American player and everyone knows her.  But I'm hoping they'll all be out here tomorrow just supporting Americans and not just supporting her.

Q.  Is this kind of a way for them to get to know you better?

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Yeah, I should hope so (smiling). 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT