PILOT PEN TENNIS
August 28, 2004
Meghann Shaughnessy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions.  
 
 
Q.  Talk about the atmosphere out there.  Seemed like the fans were really, really into this match.  Was it a normal doubles crowd or above normal? 
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  I think this crowd in general is better than the majority of places we go.  I mean, in all the singles matches I've played here, it's always been really exciting and a great atmosphere.  Also I think a lot of people love to come and watch Martina play.  It adds a little extra.  It was a great atmosphere out there.  
 
Q.  What does it mean to you to beat that team?  Pretty special moment not only to win a title but to beat Martina and Lisa? 
 
NADIA PETROVA:  Well, it was a very good win for us.  They played very well, especially in the second set.  It was very hard for us.  But we still pulled it out, going for every point.  They're both very well playing at the net.  We played them few times, you know.  We had some close matches.  We never won.  It's kind of a step forward, which says that we are very strong double team together.  
 
Q.  You both lost earlier in singles.  Did playing doubles help you deal with your losses here in singles? 
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Yeah, definitely.  It's always disappointing.  Any loss is a disappointment.  If you get out back on the court and start winning, it definitely eases the pain a little bit.  For me it helps me.  I wanted to get a few more matches before New York, so I was excited for the doubles this week.  
 
Q.  Can you address that, Nadia? 
 
NADIA PETROVA:  Especially me, I'm taking every loss quite serious.  Double give me stay in the flow.  It's another match.  You know, we have to get ready for it.  Doubles makes you forget about your loss in singles.  
 
Q.  Lisa made the comment about you not making the Olympics.  Can you talk about hearing her say that.  She had no obligation to say that. 
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  That meant so much to me.  I mean, I would have loved to have been at the Olympics.  I've never been.  I'm probably going to have one more chance.  So it hurt a lot that I wasn't on the team this year.  Hearing that from her was very special.  
 
Q.  Martina has such a reputation.  As players, how do you deal not being in awe of her? 
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Well, I mean, I think everybody admires Martina.  What she's accomplished in tennis is just beyond anyone's comprehension.  It's unbelievable.  You know, here accustomed to going out every week.  It doesn't matter who you're playing.  Everybody's working hard.  Everybody's playing great tennis.  When you walk out on the court, you're not thinking about who's accomplished what or who's done what.  It's just do your best and try to win.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT