WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2001
Meghann Shaughnessy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  How do you think you're playing?  
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Well, I think I'm playing a little bit better with each match.  I definitely played better today than I did in the first round.  Hopefully I'll just continue to gain confidence here on grass and keep moving through.  
 
Q.  Do you feel you're kind of getting the hang of this Grand Slam thing?  Does it take a while to get used to?
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Yeah.  I mean, I've been doing better.  Just tough, two weeks, a lot of great players.  I am getting better at it, though. 
 
Q.  What's the hardest thing about Grand Slams versus playing at other tournaments?
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  I mean, although the atmosphere is great, it's also a little bit tiring.  It's long and it's very exciting, and everyone wants to do their best at a Grand Slam.  I think it wears on you a little bit.  
 
Q.  Anything in particular that sort of you find draining or tiring, the schedule?
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  And all the people.  I mean, so much excitement everywhere that you need to just make sure after your matches you go to your room and calm down and relax, come energized the next day.  
 
Q.  Do you have any contact with some of the young American guys out there, like Taylor Dent doing well now?  Is there any feeling among all of you that you see each other at all?
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Not really.  I mean, I don't know any of them very well.  I live in Arizona.  Obviously, no one is from there.  I don't know any of them personally.  They're Americans and I hope they're doing well.  
 
Q.  You played against Majoli.  What do you think about her?  Were you a little bit afraid before the match?
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Afraid?  No.  I mean, obviously she's a great player.  She's had great results, winning the French and that.  I expected myself to win, definitely.  
 
Q.  What are your ambition in the next year?
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Next year, I'd like to finish close to Top 10. 
 
Q.  How close do you feel you are?
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  I have some adjustments to make.  I think I need to gain a little bit of confidence.  But I don't think it's too far.  I think I have the game and I have everything it takes to be there.  
 
Q.  What do you think about this new generation of Russian players?
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  I think they're great.  There are so many of them coming up, 16, 17 years old.  They're already having great success in the big tournaments.  It's great.  Very good players.  I wish I did that well at 16.  
 
Q.  When did you start sort of thinking of yourself as someone who could be a Top 10 player?
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  From the beginning.  That's always been my goal.  I mean, I've been through some tough years, struggling at the lower level.  I always believed that if I worked hard, I could get there someday.  
 
Q.  Do you have any idea when you're going to stop playing?
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  I hope for many years.  I mean, as long as I stay healthy and keep enjoying myself, I'm planning on being around for a while.  A little young to retire, I think.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT