FED CUP - FRANCE vs USA
November 23, 2003
Meghann Shaughnessy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Meghann.  
 
 
Q.  How did you feel physically?
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  I was tired.  I mean, it's been a pretty emotional week.  I've had a couple really long, tough matches.  So I definitely felt it a little bit today mentally and physically.  
 
Q.  When did you think that it would be very hard to win this match?  At the very beginning? 
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Well, I mean, I knew it was going to be a tough match no matter what.  Amelie is playing great tennis.  She's a great player.  I knew no matter how good I felt, I'd have to play great tennis to win, and I didn't do that.  That's why she came out on top.  
 
Q.  Everybody saw great Amelie was playing here in Moscow.  Do you think at her level now, some players in the Top 5 could oppose her, who can match her from the Top 5?
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  I think she's playing great tennis, but I think the other Top 10 players are playing great, as well.  It's just a matter of, you know, day to day.  I think a lot of players can beat anyone on a given day.  It's a matter of who goes out there and consistently plays at that level.  I would say there are quite a few players that can compete with her.  
 
Q.  In the first three games, you were getting a lot of points off her forehand, in particular.  A lot of them were going long, a lot into the net.  Did you get the sense then she was beatable? 
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Well, her forehand is definitely her weaker side.  So that was my game plan before I even went on the court, was to attack the forehand a little bit more.  
 
Q.  I know it's pretty soon after your loss, but could you talk about what positives you can take out of this week, being here with the team? 
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Well, there was a ton of positives.  I wouldn't trade playing Fed Cup for anything.  I think it's an unbelievable experience that very few people get to have.  We obviously would have loved to win, so we're all really disappointed with that.  But I know that all four of us and our captains, everybody on our support team has had a great week, will take away a lot from that.  
 
Q.  After your brilliant performance yesterday, was there just not as much left today that you could compete with?
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Yeah, definitely.  I mean, I had trouble bringing as much intensity physically and mentally today than I did yesterday.  That's very disappointing.  That's something I need to get better at and learn, because that's a very important thing to have as a professional tennis, is to be able to go in and do it day in and day out, no matter what you had to do the day before.  
 
Q.  On paper, you were the leader of the team.  Was there any informal leader on the team?  Was it Martina Navratilova? 
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  That's a difficult question.  I mean, I think we had a lot of leaders on our team.  Obviously, Billie Jean is a leader.  Martina, with her experience and everything, is also a leader.  Lisa, as well.  She played some great tennis this week.  She had a great attitude, was supporting us all this week.  Everybody was great.  I wouldn't pick out, you know, one or even a couple leaders this week.  I think everyone put in their part.  That's why we had such a great time.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT