FED CUP - BELGIUM vs USA
November 20, 2003
Meghann Shaughnessy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions.  
 
 
Q.  You played a hard match yesterday.  Maybe you were lacking stamina and that's the reason for the defeat?
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Definitely.  I was, you know, a little bit tired this morning.  But, you know, Els played a great match.  I thought she played really solid and aggressive, so all credit to her.  Yeah, I mean, hopefully I want to get out there and start cheering Lisa on.  Hopefully we can win this tie and play some more tennis on Saturday and Sunday.  
 
Q.  You fought back to 4-All in the second.  How did it get away from you? 
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Well, it was just close.  You know, we were both having trouble breaking each other's serve.  It was crucial that I got that break back at the end to tie it up.  Then, you know, the tiebreak, I had a lead there and had some opportunities that I didn't take.  That was the only difference.  
 
Q.  How is this court playing?  Els said she didn't like it. 
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Yeah, it's definitely a different court.  I played the Kremlin Cup here two years in a row now.  It's just real sticky.  You need to make sure you wear worn-out shoes, because if not your feet just stick.  Yeah, it's different.  Normally an indoor court is a little bit slicker and lower.  This one kind of sits up a bit and is a little bit slower.  I mean, I don't mind this court.  I just think it's a little bit dangerous for the ankles.  
 
Q.  Presuming that the Americans go on to the finals, are you the type of person who can let this loss go quickly and be ready on Saturday or is it going to be playing in your head? 
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Well, we do still need to win this tie.  But if we do, yeah, it's going to be very important that I go out there and just learn from my mistakes yesterday and today and go out there with a positive frame of mind, play much better.  
 
Q.  Can you adjust in just a day?
 
MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Obviously, I'm not going to change my game in a day, but it's more mentality, you know, going out there with the right frame of mind, going for the right shots, playing a little bit more aggressive, a little bit more energy.  Just some adjustments more in the mind than anything.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT