US OPEN
August 29, 2003
Meghann Shaughnessy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions, please.


Q.  Is this your biggest win since beating Venus at NASDAQ, do you think?  How would you assess it? 

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Yeah, as far as being in a Grand Slam and beating a seeded player, it's been my biggest win since Venus.

Q.  How disappointing has it been for you that you weren't able to build on that win?  I mean, that was such a huge win at the time, it seemed.  I know you've been injured, kind of struggled the rest of the year. 

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Yeah, I mean, I started this year off really well.  In Australia I won the first tournament of the year, then made the quarters of The Open.  Then did well in Scottsdale, in Miami.  Yeah, I started the year off great.  Then I've just had a little letdown here during the summer.  But I'm just working on some things and I know it's gonna come around. 

Q.  Sorry I just came in, but what turned it around for you?  I was over there for the first set and I think about four games of the second set. 

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  I just kept telling myself to keep fighting.  And the crowd was great, it was pretty full and everyone was cheering for me.  They were there, rooting me on.  So they helped out a lot. I just kept fighting, tried to start playing more aggressive because the first set she played great.  The first set she was controlling most of the rallies and running me around a lot.  I just tried to just change the momentum of the match a little bit.

Q.  How impressed were you with the way she played?

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Very impressed in the first set.  I felt like I played a pretty solid first set.  She stepped it up there in the end.  Then she let down a little bit, she got a little bit angry.  I took advantage of that.

Q.  Why? 

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Why did she get angry? 

Q.  Yeah. 

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Ask her (laughing). 

Q.  I thought maybe there was something like a line call or something?

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  No, no. 

Q.  Did you feel like when you won the second set you pretty well had it?

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  I wish I was that confident right up to the second set.  But, yeah, I definitely felt like the momentum changed right there at the end of the second set.  I picked it up there.  She got a little bit discouraged.  I started playing better, I started moving better, looking more for my forehand and doing more with the point.  That was the main difference. 

Q.  Was that a match you felt like you should win coming into it, or did you feel like, "Here's a rising young player who's done pretty well this year and I'm gonna have to play at a real high level to win it"? 

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  I knew I was gonna have to play well.  She's been having a great year.  I definitely felt like I should win this match.

Q.  Is that because it's The Open, on American soil, surface, what is it? 

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Yeah, it's the US Open and I feel like I'm starting to play better again.  I've had a little bit of slump the last few months, but I feel like I'm playing well again and I'm starting to really fight and want to be out there.  So I definitely feel like I should win that match, walking into it.

Q.  When did you play her the last time?

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  The last time we played was in Indian Wells this year.

Q.  Was there a time this year where you didn't feel like you wanted to be out here? 

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Well, I think everybody goes through times where they lose a little bit of motivation or whatever.  But, yeah, I mean, there have been times out there that I've just lacked a little bit of confidence and will to be out on the court.  And I feel like I'm getting that again. 

Q.  You're playing better, but it's gonna be a big step up in the next round against Kim.  You've played her before.  How do you feel like you can match up against her? 

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Yeah, I mean, she's playing great tennis.  She's really on fire.  She's been on fire all year, so I'm definitely gonna have to go out there and go for my shots. But I've beaten her before.  We'll see what happens. 

Q.  Is she as attackable as she was, say, last year, or do you see a real improvement in her game?

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  I think  -- no, she's definitely on another level now than she was last year.  I mean, she's pretty much, you know, winning or making finals every week.  So she's found that consistency and she really believes that she can be the best.  And she's right there at No. 1 right now. So it's  -- no, she's definitely stepped it up a level. 

Q.  When we ask Kim about being No. 1, it's almost as if she seems not embarrassed, but to her it just doesn't seem like a big deal, you know.  John McEnroe talked about how his whole life changed when he became No. 1.  She seems like, "Well, you know, whatever."  Do you sense that when you're around her in the locker room?

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Yeah, she's great.  She's got such a nice personality.  I mean, every day I see her she's happy.  She loves what she does.  I think that's a big part of the reason why she's doing so well.  She's happy.  I mean, she thinks it's great that she can walk out on the court every day and play tennis.  She loves it. 

Q.  What was working best for you today? 

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  I think the best thing about today was just the fight.  I mean, the actual tennis on, you know, both my part and her part wasn't great.  It was  -- the conditions were difficult.  It was really windy out there.  It was swirling.  So both of us were struggling a little bit with our rhythm.  I'd have to say the best thing was just the fight that stood out. 

Q.  Excuse me if this was asked in the beginning, but this is your first time in the fourth round of the US Open, huh?

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Yes.

Q.  You've got to feel pretty good.  It's taken time, maybe you should have been here last year or the year before, but now it's here?

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Yeah, definitely.  I would have loved to have been here earlier, but I'm here now.  I'm gonna go out there with Kim and do everything I can. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT