FED CUP - USA vs. ITALY
July 20, 2003
Meghann Shaughnessy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Meghann Shaughnessy for questions. 


Q.  Can you talk a little bit about watching Chanda's match and how much relief you felt in the third set there, and if things were getting a little tense for the whole team sitting on the sideline during the second set?

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Well, definitely.  I mean, I was inside trying to stay cool.  But, yeah, she was struggling there the first set and a half, and it was close.  Just in there cheering her on.  I'm really happy that she was able to pull that one through. 

Q.  Can you talk a little bit about your own match today and just kind of how, going into it, were you thrown off a little by, "It could be meaningful," "It could be a dead rubber"? 

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Well, yeah, that was difficult.  I mean, I knew going into the match that we had already won the tie, so I was kind of having these mixed emotions.  One way, I was relieved and happy we won, it was all over.  On the other hand, I was like, "Wait a minute, I've got to go out there and win now."  Being a professional tennis player, we're all competitors.  I wanted to win that match just for myself, so I was feeling the pressure anyway.

Q.  I'm sorry if you've been asked this already, but could you talk a little bit about Chanda's performance and the way she came through for you guys in that match.

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Yeah, she was struggling in the first set and a half.  I think she was having trouble with her returns.  Francesca was serving really well today, so that made it difficult for Chanda.  But, you know, she fought it through.  And that's what tennis is all about  - even when you're playing not your best, is just to keep fighting and know that things can turn around, and that's what she did. 

Q.  If asked, would you like to be on the team that goes to the final four?

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Definitely.  I mean, every opportunity I've been given to play Fed Cup I've jumped on, because I think it's such an honor to be able to play for your country, and it's an experience that not very many people have.  So, yes, if I'm asked, I'm there, because I absolutely love it. 

Q.  To follow up on that, Belgium, we don't know where that's going to be played, but if it's in Brussels, I can bet what surface it's gonna be.  Could you talk about the dynamics of that match, and this is one case where home-court advantage could be a big deal. 

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  Well, is it gonna be in Belgium? 

Q.  We don't know. 

MEGHANN SHAUGHNESSY:  We don't know.  Yeah, I mean, my guess is they'd put that on clay (laughing).  But, you know, they'll have Justine and Kim, so they've obviously got a very strong team.  But we'll see what team we put together.  I'm sure it will be quite exciting. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT