NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CANADIENS v FLYERS
May 23, 2010
Roman Hamrlik
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. A lot of people obviously make a big deal about the fact that you've been in this situation before. Does it really help or does it seem to be a new world in this Series? 
 ROMAN HAMRLIK: Washington and a little bit of Pittsburgh, but this is a totally different team, and Philly showed every game they have more desperation. But we have to go get them game by game, and focus on our game. And I think if we played the first game at home, we ’d have a very good chance. 

 Q. Is it disappointing when you can't follow that up - when you don't take advantage of what you did in Game 3 and Philadelphia does what they did in Game 4 - is it hard not to be disappointed? 
 ROMAN HAMRLIK: Yeah, we are disappointed, obviously, especially with the effort last game we played. It's unacceptable because we played at home in front of our fans, lots of people watching, especially in the dressing room. We know we haven't played our best, and we have to step up and compete and be more desperate and win battles one-on-one and finish our checks and do the things that we did before, in the Series against Pittsburgh and Washington. 

 Q. Are you surprised that in both games, both ways, the margins of victory really haven't been that close? 
 ROMAN HAMRLIK: Yeah, I mean, obviously it's tough whoever scores the first goal. I think it's a big advantage. Our focus is to just go over there and score the first goal and get some confidence. We know we're going to play against Philly when the building is very tough. But we have to get some shots at the net and get some traffic in front of their goalie. 

 Q. When you're on the road and score the first goal, it gives you guys confidence. What does it do to the opponent? 
 ROMAN HAMRLIK: We don't really care about the opponent. 

 Q. But if you scored first at home, what then do you guys do? 
 ROMAN HAMRLIK: You know, we stopped playing, and that's not our game. We have to stick with our plan. Good example, last night they outworked us. They were more desperate. They win battles and they were first on the puck. They showed more desperation. You know, we have to show some enthusiasm and play with a little bit of heart. 

 Q. Why do you think that is? People always talk about the importance of the first goal of the Playoffs, and obviously it is important. But why do you think it is in this Series it has made such a difference that the winning team -- the team that's wound up winning has taken so much spirit from it, and the team that hasn't has fallen back? 
 ROMAN HAMRLIK: I wish I could give you answers. We talked about it in the dressing room, you know. One game, the third game, we played a hell of a game. I think it was our biggest game so far in all three Series, and last night we showed up and we were not ready. So I don't know. We were not mentally ready or we were not moving our feet, there's a lot of things we have to be better. We have to do better to get the puck, play simple, and get the puck at the net. 

 Q. Do you think there is anything to it in this Series that both of these teams in the season were so up-and-down, so inconsistent? Is there anything that maybe in the Playoffs that inconsistency has come back maybe for you guys and a little bit for them? 
 ROMAN HAMRLIK: Yeah, it did come, obviously against these guys n thr first two games and last night. I thought it was those three games, you know, like up-and-down. But those three games … that was not our team. Especially in the Playoffs, you can't play like that. You give Philly a chance to put the puck at the net, and we were taking penalties. We have to play five-on-five and have a chance. 

 Q. Is it the nature of the Playoffs that teams can have such a fabulous effort like you guys had in Game 3, and then come back in Game 4 and it just isn't there. Is that peculiar to the Playoffs? 
 ROMAN HAMRLIK: You know what, I can't find an answer. It's tough. I mean, it's really disappointing. We have to play better. Like I said many times, we don't have any superstars, we don't have any Joe Sakic or Mario Lemieux. We've got 20 guys together and that's the way we're going to beat any team. Unfortunately, last night it was the toughest night for us. 

 Q. At this point would there be anything that you guys have to say to each other? I mean, this is the sixth game that you'll play with your backs against the wall. Is there now just an understanding what you have to do and you don't have to talk about it? 
 ROMAN HAMRLIK: No, we had a meeting, obviously, and we talked about it. We watched some videos. We switched the plan what we did wrong. But we have been there, and tomorrow night we have to play this game like we would play the 7th game in a Series. That's what we have to look for. That's our mindset just to win tomorrow night. 

 Q. The last couple of games you've been paired up with PK as opposed to with Jaroslav Spacek. What's that like not just to play the position, but to help settle PK down? 
 ROMAN HAMRLIK: You know, we have very good games together. And last night I don't think it was just me or PK. I think everybody was a little bit down. And Spacek and I played all season together and have great chemistry. PK's a great skater, like I said. He's got a good first pass and good shot and on the power play. I like to play with both of them. 

 Q. Tough position for him? I mean, not a lot of guys with that level of experience get thrown right in this role in this kind of Series where making one mistake can really cost you. 
 ROMAN HAMRLIK: You know, he's young. He's going to learn. I think he takes the role pretty well, especially in the Playoffs. He showed up and he's given to us quality minutes. 

 Q. Roman, the U.S. TV networks are accusing the Canadiens of laying down sand in the hallway to dull the skate blades. Have you ever heard of such a thing, or are you worried about anything they may try to do to mess with you guys in Game 5? 
 ROMAN HAMRLIK: No, but like I said, we worry about ourselves. We know they're going to come hard and they're going to finish checks like they do always. You know, we just have to battle. We haven't touched the goalie last night. We gave him a little bit of a break. But tomorrow's going to be a different night. 

 Q. Did you guys have any skate problems in Game 4? Any skate problems? Because I think Mike Richards had to get his skates resharpened five times? 
 ROMAN HAMRLIK: I think the first goal, Gorges did. 

 Q. The guards, yeah. 
 ROMAN HAMRLIK: And he was losing the strap or something. That's why he stepped on it. 

 Q. But that's about it that you guys had? 
 ROMAN HAMRLIK: Yeah, that's what I know. I don't know anything about that. 

 Q. You had to work very hard during the three months of Andrei Markov's absence during the season. Has that taken a physical toll on you? You've been playing hockey a long time. You get into the Playoffs and you've had two seven-game series and could be headed to another long one. How much does it take a toll on you? 
 ROMAN HAMRLIK: No, I feel good. I know we miss Markov badly, and I have to step up and I have to play my best game tomorrow. I feel good out there. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT