MOUNTAIN WEST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 12, 2008
Jamie Davis
Pamela Findlay
Ardie McInelly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:  Coach, if you want to just begin with some general comments about the game. 
 COACH McINELLY:  Well, we made improvements from last week.  We played them last week, and we had a much better game today.  I felt like the first half we let that get away from us.  We look at the score in the second half, you know, we scored 25 points, they scored 24. 
 The difference in the game was, as I said, in the first half we turned the ball over too many times, we sent them to the free-throw line.  I thought our players did a great job of making adjustments, coming out in the second half and doing the things that we asked them to do.  And I'm awfully proud of these young women. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Thanks, coach. 

 Q.  When did you hear about I guess Colorado State beating Utah, did that provide any inspiration for you guys knowing that that upset had been pulled off? 
 PAMELA FINDLAY:  I think most of the team, you know, was watching the game before we left.  And then one of our players had her dad on the phone kind of keeping us updated.  We were really excited.  We're so proud of them.  And I think it did inspire us.  I mean we were already inspired, but it added a little bonus, I think. 
 JAMIE DAVIS:  The whole time on the bus we're like, Oh, CSU, it's close, it's close.  Oh, CSU is doing this.  It just gave us like a big spark just to know hey they can do it, we can go out there too with that same just having the mentality that we can go out there and get a win.  So it was good. 

 Q.  Did you feel like coach did, that the turnovers kind of did you in in the first half?  I think you shot 50% in the first half, but was it the turnovers that maybe did you guys in in the first half? 
 PAMELA FINDLAY:  Yes, I mean, obviously every time you turn the ball over that's one less shot attempt.  So we did.  When we got it up, we hit them in the first half.  We just didn't get it up very often. 
 JAMIE DAVIS:  And fast-break points, too.  There was a few times when we didn't get back.  Those are changes in momentum too.  So that's one of the things that I also contributed. 
 THE MODERATOR:  All right, ladies, thank you.  Good job.  Questions for coach. 

 Q.  Coach, can you talk about having to play without Raimee Beck and also Alecia.  Also just a comment on I guess her effort.  Looks like she was in a lot of pain out there but tried to gut it out. 
 COACH McINELLY:  Well, first of all, with Alecia, she has, you know, we have our trainers and our doctors and they've been keeping a very close eye.  And Alecia really wanted to play this game.  And although she didn't start, I said, When you're ready just let us know, we'll let you play.  She would go in and if she got bumped or hit a little bit more, or had some pain, you know, she would just kind of raise her hand and we'd take her out.  Then when she said she's ready again, we'd go ahead and put her back in. 
 It's her last time of playing competitive basketball.  You know, the young lady's going to be graduating.  So I felt like as long as the doctors said that it was fine, that we could go ahead and let her kind of, you know, play some minutes here and there.  I'm very proud of what Alecia Steele has done at the Academy.  She set many, many records.  So I think she deserved that. 
 Raimee Beck, she has a -- I don't even know the name.  I'm going call it a stress fracture in her hip that was just found out yesterday with an MRI.  We were all out at Nellis Air Force Base.  Because of that they feel like they've caught it quite early and hopefully she'll be able to be back in six weeks. 
 That does certainly affect the things that our team poses to the opponent as far as scoring.  Alecia led our team in scoring and in rebounding.  Raimee Beck led our team in assists, steals, and also she averaged almost ten points a game.  So those things hurt. 
 The good thing is we had some other people step up.  Ashley Myers stepped up and played a very good game tonight.  Chasmine Jones.  It gives some other people an opportunity to get some experience.  So, you know, there's always a positive thing that we can find from someone's injury, someone else has an opportunity. 
 So I just want to say that I think that our team played well.  We didn't play well enough to beat a good team like TCU.  Hats off to them.  They're very, very balanced, probably one of the most balanced teams in the tournament at this point.  And with that I mean that there are numerous people on their team that can score, you know, from anywhere on the court. 
 So I wish them the best of luck.  I wish Colorado State the best of luck.  I wish New Mexico the best of luck.  And we got our last one playing right now. 

 Q.  The CSU game, did you mention that at all to the players as a kind of, Hey, look, anything can happen? 
 COACH McINELLY:  Yeah, I did.  I did mention that.  I also said, Look at who's running for president.  Anything can happen, you know?  We have a woman,we have an African-American.  Anything's possible this day and age.  So don't let anyone say it can't happen because it just might. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Thanks, coach.  



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT