MOUNTAIN WEST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 7, 2007
Letrecia Castillo
Ardie McInelly
Alecia Steele
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Joined now by United States Air Force Academy head coach Ardie McInelly and student-athletes Letricia Castillo and Alecia Steele. 
 Coach, if you would start with couple comments on the game. 
 COACH McINELLY:  I'd like to congratulate BYU.  They're a very good team, many weapons.  They certainly outplayed us tonight on both ends of the court offensively and defensively. 
 I really believed the first part of the game, I thought we did a pretty good job of staying with them, then all of a sudden, who was it, Dani Wright goes out?  I thought, Man, we might have a chance, you know. 
 But a team like BYU, they saw that one of their main players had gone out and they picked it up and they played even better.  They just took it to us.  We never did respond. 
 I give a lot of credit to them, what they've done, the job that Jeff Judkins has done, as well as his assistants.  We have a ways to go.  We feel very privileged that we even had an opportunity to play them.  I'll turn it over to my players. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Letricia or Alecia. 

 Q.  Alecia, when you look at the last two nights, won a tournament game last night, tonight did you step back a little bit?  How do you assess the two nights? 
 ALECIA STEELE:  Yesterday or last night I think we were a little more focused.  We stuck to our game plan.  Today we started out pretty good, and then we lost focus.  We didn't make smart decisions.  Basically that's what happened.  The team that was there last night was not there tonight. 
 LETRICIA CASTILLO:  We just didn't have the same intensity and focus that we had last night.  It's kind of unfortunate because we started off pretty well against them, but we lost our intensity.  We just didn't make the smart decisions that we made last night.  Our defense wasn't on point like it was yesterday.  If we would have played like we played last night, I think it could have been a different game. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Ladies, thank you.  We'll let you two go.  Questions for Coach McInelly. 

 Q.  Would you address that same thing as far as how you look at the two nights, made a step forward last night, and did you take two steps back tonight do you think or what? 
 COACH McINELLY:  I thought last night we played a 40-minute game.  I thought tonight we didn't do that.  Granted, BYU is No. 1 in our conference for a reason.  As I said, they have many players that can come in and score, whether it be Wright or Riley or Gillespie or Johnsen.  You know, they're No. 1 for that reason in that many people on their team can step up. 
 We've relied on a couple people on our team throughout the year.  When those couple people are shut down, then we struggle.  It is our goal to hopefully continue to recruit players that can come in, we can have winning records. 
 It was night and day from last night to tonight.  But it was certainly due to BYU, I think their outstanding defense, I think their solid offense.  It's a team that will not only do well in this conference tournament but will continue to go on and do well in the NCAAs. 
 As I said, I have a lot of respect for them, what he's done there at BYU.  If there's any BYU papers, make sure you put that in there so people cheer for us instead of boo for us when we go to the Marriott Center. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Coach, thank you. 
 COACH McINELLY:  Thank you. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT