SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 23, 2013
Colin Lockett
Rocky Long
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:   Questions. 

Q.   You're a little young for this, but a heck of a senior moment out there tonight.   Talk about that. 
COLIN LOCKETT:   The play was dialed up.   We executed.   Quinn threw a hell of a pass.   I did what I was supposed to do, catch the ball, made sure I got my feet inbounds. 

Q.   Talk about the emotion of winning a game like that under the circumstances tonight. 
COLIN LOCKETT:   Coach Long tells us we got to get emotionally prepared to play.   There's no emotion greater than having a play like that, especially with your brothers, your seniors that you've been working hard with for the past couple years, the underclassmen as well. 
I feel that's one of the best ways you can finish a career. 

Q.   Colin, how does this measure up against Boise State last year?
COLIN LOCKETT:   I think it would have to be this one just because it's my senior year.   Don't have to see them again. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
COACH LONG:   I think it's the best thing that could happen to them.   A lot of these guys came a long time ago when this program and the team wasn't very good.   They came with the faith that they could help make it better.   Obviously they've done that. 
To be able to win a game like that against a team like that at home on your last home game, that's something they can carry with them the rest of their lives. 
I can still remember some of the games I played in.   That's one they'll remember forever. 

Q.   Talk about the emotional swings for you. 
COLIN LOCKETT:   We just focus on that in workouts, on the practice field, ups and downs.   There's always going to be something bad that happens in a game.   You just have to know how to bounce back from it. 
Once I fumbled the ball, people on the sidelines came and patted me on the back and said, We're going to need you in the end.   I just put it behind me. 

Q.   Can you talk about the play of the defensive backs tonight. 
COACH LONG:   I thought the defense played well the whole night.   I thought we got decent pressure on the quarterback.   I thought we handled the running game pretty well except for one long run when we got hooked at the line of scrimmage and missed the shot at the sideline. 
Other than the one play where they got it down there in field goal range where we missed three tackles, that would have been a shorter game than the long one they got down there with, I thought the defense played hard.   I thought they were physical.   I thought they tried to hit 'em, kept them under control. 
They're a really, really good offense. 

Q.   How about the special teams? 
COACH LONG:   I think the kicking game has been our Achilles' heel all year long.   You give up a kickoff return for a touchdown, that really hurts. 
I don't know how you prevent that from happening.   But getting hit with a ball on a rugby punt, I guess you can't block anybody.   The punt returner, he's all by himself.   That's one of those unusual things that happened. 
Returning a punt for a touchdown, that kind of balanced out the kickoff return we gave away. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
COACH LONG:   He hurt his ankle when he was in on a tackle in the kickoff. 

Q.   Did that change your play calling in fourth‑down situations?
COACH LONG:   No.   I tell you what, I want to take it back, too.   I did one thing by the coaching manual tonight:   punting instead of going for it.   It almost cost us the game.   So I'm never doing it again (laughter). 

Q.   Talk about your strategy going into the overtime, putting your defense out there first. 
COACH LONG:   That's what you do.   I mean, if you win the toss, you always put your defense out there first.   So when your offense goes out there, they know exactly what they have to do to get you to the next overtime or win the game. 
Thank goodness we won the toss, so we got to go on defense first. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
COACH LONG:   Yeah, I think so.   Plus we've been there three other times before this time, so it's no big deal to us. 
We've practiced live action in overtime against other teams.   It's like exhibition season. 

Q.   For him to still have that confidence for you in that last play, what does it say?
COLIN LOCKETT:   I mean, it just shows you grow over time, especially after you're repping and repping and repping in practice every day.   It's just kind of like you form a relationship with him.   It just becomes natural. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
COACH LONG:   I thought that the move he made on the free safety that would have probably prevented him from getting the first down is the best move I've seen him make since he's been here.   I was far enough down on the sidelines, I got to see it from the backside. 
I'm telling you what, there's not a safety in the country would have tackled him on that move.   I think that's the best move he made. 
I also thought that him and Pumphrey in a different situation ran really, really hard.   They're really good up front on defense, plus they were stacking an extra guy in there.   Those guys kept pounding it in there no matter how hard it was. 
That move he made down by the goal line in overtime was something special.   I'm glad I wasn't the guy trying to tackle him. 

Q.   Fullback position is an unsung hero.   What has Chad meant to this team? 
COLIN LOCKETT:   Chad is one of the biggest reasons we've had a thousand‑yard rushers in back‑to‑back to back‑to‑back seasons.   I feel like Chad Young is the toughest guy on this football team. 
Fullbacks, you're running into linemen, linebackers.   The way he does it, he has all kind of neck injuries, fingers.   He goes out there every single down like it's the first play of the game.   That's why he gets player of the game every week.   Nobody else can go out there and put their body on the line for a team like that and still come back week after week.   I think that just shows a lot of character. 
I love Chad the most when he comes down putting his body out there.   He does it week in, week out.   Just glad to have him on my team and not the other's. 

Q.   Update on Billy?
COACH LONG:   No, I don't have an update on him. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
COLIN LOCKETT:   I really don't have an answer for that.   I think it might have been Senior Night.   Might have been the last time we're going to be in Qualcomm for the 2013 season.   I really don't know. 

Q.   (Question regarding UNLV.) 
COLIN LOCKETT:   Same way we do every week.   Turn it around, watch film on what we did this week, watch film on what we did good from this game, then come in ready to work on Tuesday.   Film room, practice field, workouts during the week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT