IMSA WEATHERTECH SPORTS CAR CHAMPIONSHIP: ROLEX 24 AT DAYTONA
January 28, 2018
Scott Pruett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: We're joined by Scott Pruett, one of the drivers of the No. 15 3GTT Racing Lexus RC F GT3. You sat up here three weeks ago and said you were retiring.   
SCOTT PRUETT: Yep.  
   
 Q. Seems like the time, it's over now, what are your reflections now as this is coming to an end?  
SCOTT PRUETT: First, gosh, thanks to all the media for all the years. A lot of you guys have been with me along the way. We won't mention Kevin Kennedy, who signed on with Ford, I think about the same year that I did, which was back in 1937, I think, right? (Laughter)  
Also just this incredible racetrack and all the incredible fans and drivers. We had some issues with the Lexus in the last few hours. Unfortunately, one of the drivers got off track and had some damage. The plan was to look to try and get me in, but with the damage and some other stuff, it doesn't look like that's going to quite happen.  
I'll be down there hanging out and rooting these guys on to get to the checkered flag. That was the number one priority was getting to the checkered flag. You like to get there first; but, secondly, you want to get there.   
So fingers crossed we can finish out this last hour and, what, hour and change, hour and 40 minutes or so. And more than anything else, just again thanks to all the great media for all the great years.   
I'm not leaving, but I certainly am going to open up a new chapter. And I think last night I did all my driving, the majority of my driving was from about 8:00last night to about 7:00 this morning, with maybe one or two out‑of‑the‑cars in between.   
So I'll remember the darkness of Daytona and certainly all the craziness that happens at nighttime, along with a little rain. And those are all great, fond, wonderful memories.  
   
 Q. What about just this year's Rolex and how big it's become from the first time you were here?  
SCOTT PRUETT: It's shocking how far this event has come. And I see it continually getting bigger into the future, with the level and the amount of cars and manufacturers that are involved in the series, number one, in DPI, GTLM as well as Daytona. I think there's 17 manufacturers involved, which says a lot about the health of this sport and moving forward.   
It all translates here. Rolex 24, by far, everybody wants to be here, because this is the event that kicks off everything around the world in racing.  
And when you see and have had a chance, a lot of you guys, I'm sure, have interviewed a lot of drivers from across the pond, a lot of NASCAR guys, a lot of IndyCar guys, and they all are just digging being here and love being here and certainly want to come back.  
   
 Q. How long do you think you were in the car? I heard you on the TV interview say if Lexus needed you this year you'll be ready to go. You did a lot of driving. Did you feel good and feel sharp?  
SCOTT PRUETT: I did. I mean, we were posting laps, I was chasing down leaders and running really well. I think, again, it came in a pretty short period‑‑ in about 12 hours I did I think about five and a half hours of that.   
And it all was going really well. So it was interesting because we didn't have‑‑ we had really good pace at the opening of the race where we just couldn't maintain it. And it's not uncommon. I mean, look at Penske coming here for their first year with Acura and everything that has had to take place in that.   
And it's the same thing with Lexus. We had so much to learn from last year to this year and then from this year to next year. And again I'll be proud to get to the checkered flag more than anything else. Again, get there first, but getting there is secondly incredibly important.  
   
 Q. (Inaudible).   
SCOTT PRUETT: Felt great. I guess I'm not having a problem with my night vision, because I spent all my time in the night and a little bit of rain.   
No, it all went really good. I think most every driver's thinking about, from the end of the season to the start of the season, how it's going to be, how am I going to perform.   
And I think a lot of people ask me, I said for me up until now it's been business as usual. All the training and preparation, everything I've done typically of getting here for the last 10, 15 years hasn't changed. Now, what changes is Monday and Tuesday and Wednesday and Thursday. (Laughter).   
   
 Q. If the results hold, Ganassi, it would be the 200th win for Ganassi. You have the most of those of any driver. What does it say about his organization? You've competed in virtually every series where he's won.   
SCOTT PRUETT: I can't say enough about Chip and his organization. We broke the record books together. And all the wins and all the successes and the majority of them came in sports cars. However, I did the road courses for him in NASCAR with a second and a third and a fourth place finish.   
I think there was one of those races we could win. Unfortunately, I was behind one of the Ganassi full‑time NASCAR drivers, and I was asked to stay behind him. I didn't want to go against the boss's orders.   
But other than that, I think what we've achieved together has certainly going to be those records, it's going to take a while to eclipse those.  
   
 Q. 50‑year career, what do you do Monday? Do you go to Disneyland? How do you celebrate?  
SCOTT PRUETT: That's funny. We've been talking about that: I'm going to Disney World. (Laughter). I think it's going to be in a week or two it's going to hit, especially as we look towards going to the test at Sebring and the race at Sebring. And I won't be packing my bags and going.   
But the first thing is, more than anything else, just toast this incredible career with my wife and family and just look back and take a moment to reflect on just how wonderful. And like I said, the good Lord's blessed me with an incredible career doing all this great stuff. And just taking a moment to savor that. Because typically I'm that guy with my head down just going forward, never looking back. Afraid it might catch up to me. Now it's kind of caught up to me, and I might like to sit on the porch, have a glass of wine and look back a little bit.  
   
 Q. (Inaudible)?  
SCOTT PRUETT: (Laughter) A last Syrah. I like that, my brother. (Laughter).  
SCOTT PRUETT: Guys, thank you so much. A lot of you guys, a lot of familiar faces here that have followed me for a lot of years we've had a lot of great experiences. 99percent of them positive. I might have got ugly along the way, and I appreciate your guys' patience with that, but all in all truly from the bottom of my heart thanks to all you guys for getting the word out there about what we do and what we love doing. So enjoy. Thanks, guys.   
(Applause)  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT