NASCAR MEDIA CONFERENCE
January 9, 2015
Scott Pruett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q. Coming back here once again, second year with Ford, this time full‑on Ford, how are you feeling about that moving forward and your results in the race this year? 
SCOTT PRUETT:   As we all know, it was a difficult 24 for us last year.   It was an up‑and‑down season for us last year, even though we got three victories.   Winning Sebring overall was tremendous, winning at Long Beach, and then winning in COTA, which I hadn't won at COTA before, that was exciting, and then we had our challenges.   More than anything else, we learned a lot, and it also brought everybody together as a team to focus on moving forward.   Everybody within the Ganassi organization, everybody within Ford, everybody within Roush Yates, we had to dig in and work hard.   So as we come here for 2015, it's more of the standard of what we've been doing for the last 10 years, not what we did last year, but leading up to that.   All the preparation, all the hard work, all the energy that took place over 2014, we're just rolling that forward into 2015. 

Q.   Coming into this year, once again, approaching possibly getting the all‑time winning record for the Rolex, what does that mean to you?   Have you thought about it at all?   And what would that mean being with Ford fully once again after all the success you've had in the past with them?
SCOTT PRUETT:   It's exciting for me to be involved with Ford, period, no matter what we do.   Putting them back in victory lane at Sebring overall, which I think was their first win since '69, was magical.   If we could get to victory lane here with Ford, it would, again, recreate that magic that's there.   For me personally, I'm here doing my job.   We all come here as drivers, but we come together as a team, not just the 01 group of drivers but the 01 and O2 group of drivers.   We do whatever we can to make the team better.   We look at each other's setups, we talk about the shocks, we talk about everything there is to talk about to drive both of those cars to the front, and it's always exciting to be a part of that. 
Now, I have a new teammate this year with Joey Hand, and so that brings another exciting element, so now you have two American drivers full‑time, an American manufacturer, and quite frankly, I'm very proud of America, so it's exciting to see.





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT