MLB ALL-STAR GAME
July 7, 1998
Roberto Alomar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Sandy last year, you this year. Pretty nice.

ROBERTO ALOMAR: Well, I think it's real nice. Last year we were in a tough moment. My
grandmother passed away, and Sandy won it. This year I won it. So I think, you know, we as
family, we feel real happy. It is a great honor to me to be selected an MVP.
MODERATOR: Other questions for Robbie?

Q. Highest scoring All-Star Game ever, did you realize that?

ROBERTO ALOMAR: Well, I think I've always watched baseball on TV. When you watch the
scoring in Denver, you're always seeing big numbers, 13 to whatever -- 6, 13 to 7. It was
a lot of -- this was a different kind of All-Star Game, a lot of scoring. In this
ballpark, that's what you expected. It was a great win for the American League.

Q. Last year obviously Sandy's home run was so dramatic, you knew he would win the MVP
as long as you won the game. Were you a bit surprised that you won the MVP? 

ROBERTO ALOMAR: Well, I was surprised. I didn't come here to win an MVP. I came here to
play the game of baseball, to have fun, and to try my best to help this team to win. I was
surprised. It's a great surprise. I'm going to take the trophy home (laughter).

Q. Were you surprised at all how long you stayed in the game, playing eight innings?

ROBERTO ALOMAR: Well, I think you have to be prepared to come and play the whole game,
especially when you are playing in a National League ballpark, you have to leave some guys
behind, just in case it's a tied ballgame in the end. I was surprised I played eight
innings, but I was ready for it.
MODERATOR: Couple more for Robbie, if there are any.

Q. Do you envision yourself playing the --

MODERATOR: Can you envision yourself as playing on the same team as Sandy, maybe as
early as next year?
ROBERTO ALOMAR: All I can say to that is it's out of my hands. I don't have no control
over that. I'm real happy right now where I am, with the Baltimore Orioles. I'm looking
forward to the second half, seeing if we can turn some things around. Yes, it's a dream
for me to play with Sandy in the same team, but we don't know if it's going to happen.

Q. With the season going the way it is for your team, is this award something that you
can kind of feel pretty good about?

ROBERTO ALOMAR: Well, you have to know -- in the game of baseball, there's going to be
some good times and some bad times. You have to know how to take the good and the bad. I'm
going to take it day by day. Today was a fun game for me, for the family. You know,
Baltimore Orioles have been struggling a lot. Hopefully we can keep the head up and
continue to play some better baseball. I'm a team player. I don't think nobody on our team
is happy the way we are playing. Hopefully we can turn some things around. This is only
one day. It's going to stick with me. I'm going to take it home.
MODERATOR: Last question.

Q. For the second consecutive year, represented the Alomar family. Last year was your
brother, this year you. Also how does it feel to represent the American League as well as
Puerto Rico. How does it feel?

ROBERTO ALOMAR: It feels great, you know. We have -- me and my brother, we have to
thank our mother, our father for giving us some great advice, and teaching us how to be
good human beings, and how to work hard to become a good player. You know, being from
Puerto Rico, coming from a small town, I had to work hard. To be standing here with this
trophy, it means a lot to me. You know, it was a lot of Latin players today. It's great to
have a lot of Latin players in the All-Star Game.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT