INDIANA UNIVERSITY BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 28, 2014
James Blackmon, Jr.
Collin Hartman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:   Questions. 

Q.   (Question regarding Blackmon affecting the game more.)
JAMES BLACKMON, JR.:   Really just play hard around.   I feel if I bring the intensity defensively, my teammates will see that and started doing that as well.   My mindset is really defense first right now, then the offense takes care of itself. 

Q.   James, you were a lot more aggressive today.   Shot 17 times today.   Was that part of the game plan or in‑the‑moment feeling it?
JAMES BLACKMON, JR.:   Yeah, I guess it was just in the moment.   Being a guy that can score a little bit, I just try to always stay aggressive.   I guess tonight was a night to take more shots. 

Q.   (Question regarding scouting reports.) 
COLLIN HARTMAN:   I think our coaches do a good job of getting us prepared mentally with the game plan, what guys' tendencies are.   I think we just need to carry it out more on the court by communication more, just more definitive communication. 
But we're working on it every day in practice.   We just got to keep communicating. 

Q.   (Question regarding what the team needs to do on defense.)
JAMES BLACKMON, JR.:   You know, just following the scouting report our coaches give us.   They always show us what guys do, their tendencies.   Just paying attention to that.   Getting into the film room, see what we're doing wrong.   The upperclassmen have done a good job of keeping me into it and I've gotten so much better at it. 

Q.   (Question regarding Paulos and three‑pointers.)
COLLIN HARTMAN:   I mean, he's a great shooter.   It was on the game plan.   But he's a great shooter.   Give him credit, they made shots.   We just need to come out there and, like I say, communicate the game plan better. 
But, again, we work on it every day in practice.   We just need to strive to get better at it every day.   It comes down to our communication. 

Q.   (Question regarding what allows opponents to do well in the second half.)
COLLIN HARTMAN:   I don't think it's so much physical.   To a certain extent is physical, always plays a part.   But the mental part is just knowing people's tendencies, not giving them angles. 
That's not always physical, it's just knowing the tendencies of a player, when they're going to go a certain way, what move is there go‑to move.   You can kind of guess and play a mental game with that. 
I don't think it's so much physical.   Coach Jackson has gotten us pretty ready for it.   We just need to lock into the game plan we've been given and communicate and execute. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT