UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 5, 2011
Garrett Gilbert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. Do you think maybe the O-line deserves a few treats?
 GARRETT GILBERT: Yeah, they did a great job. You know, we were able to wear them down a little bit and then in the fourth quarter they really controlled the line of scrimmage and did a good job for us. 

 Q. Garrett, just after looking at the film, what did you see that maybe you didn't see during the game?
 GARRETT GILBERT: We did some good things. You know, we were able to run the ball and that set up the play action, and the receivers went and made some plays for us. There's stuff we can improve on. There's a lot of stuff where we can go back and just assignment-wise get into our assignments a little bit quicker, just being in the right position and stuff like that. There's some decision making, there's some stuff where there's some plays to be made there that can be improved on, and so that's what we're going to work on in practice this week is consistency. 

 Q. Is it hard to know what's coming? 
 GARRETT GILBERT: Well, I mean, I think that's fun for all of us. Everyone on the sideline is into it because you never know when your number is going to be called. So doing some different stuff is fun for all of us.

 Q. How many offenses do you think you guys are running? 
 GARRETT GILBERT: Well, I mean, obviously there was more than a few personnels in there, so again, it just keeps everyone on their feet. Everyone is into the game, paying attention, because like I said, you never know when your number is going to be called and when you've got to go in there and do your job.

 Q. Explosive plays were such a topic last year. The deep ball, aside from looking really cool, how important is that in the offense, shortened fields, shortened drives?
 GARRETT GILBERT: Well, getting those big chunks is big for us. When you're able to run the ball, the safeties, they get a little more aggressive and they want to come down and help in the box, and so -- and whenever you've got receivers that can go make those plays for you, Jaxon went and made a play on that reverse pass, and then Mike was down there more than a few times on those post routes, so they did a great job working on their guy and getting open. Fortunately we were able to hit on some of those, and those big chunks definitely help.

 Q. How much confidence does that give you in the young guys knowing they can make plays?
 GARRETT GILBERT: It helps a lot. I love where our receivers are right now. They've done a great job all camp, all summer. They're catching balls every day, catching extra balls, so they've done a really great job for us and working hard for us, and that's exciting for our offense. 

 Q. How tough is BYU's defense? 
 GARRETT GILBERT: Absolutely. You know, they gave up 200 yards to Ole Miss, and on the road did a really great job. So we're going to have our hands full. We're going to have to be very sharp, go into it with a good plan. I think everyone knows that they're going to be a very good defense who's going to be very physical, so we're looking forward to the challenge.

 Q. You know Ty Detmer, don't you?
 GARRETT GILBERT: Yes, I do. He's an old alum, so hopefully I'll get to talk to him a little bit this week and maybe talk a little smack, I don't know.

 Q. You talked about having your hands full. Will they have their hands full with you guys with all the stuff y'all are doing up there?
 GARRETT GILBERT: Well, when you do a lot of different stuff personnel-wise, obviously it's difficult to prepare for. But you know, as an offense, we're really concerned about ourselves. Obviously we're going to be looking at a great challenge in their defense, so all we're concerned about is going out and executing our own plan.

 Q. Obviously it's a big game on the schedule this week. Talk about having that kind of high level non-conference game. 
 GARRETT GILBERT: It's fun, it's really fun. Getting to play a team like BYU with all the history they have, all the tradition they have, it'll be a lot of fun for us, so I think it's something that everyone will be looking forward to. Like you said, national TV is always fun, but it'll be really fun for us to play a program like BYU. 

 Q. (Indiscernible). 
 GARRETT GILBERT: I think that's just a matter of consistency and working on that every day in practice, getting those wide outs for routes and hitting those routes in practice. That's just a matter of consistency, and so we're going to need to work on that this week. 

 Q. Do you feel like there's less on you this year than there was last year?
 GARRETT GILBERT: Well, I mean, I don't know about compared to last year. I feel like our offense, where we're at right now, we do some good things, and we're able to run the ball, and then that sets up other things. So being able to do that is big for us. It's a key for us, so I think we're going to continue to need to work on that and being more consistent at it. 

 Q. Do you feel more comfortable?
 GARRETT GILBERT: I feel very comfortable. Right now I think Coach Harsin has done a great job of getting us prepared, getting us -- putting us in these situations to be ready to go on Saturdays, and so I think with the offense that we have, I feel very comfortable in it right now, and I'm excited about where we're going.

 Q. What did you think of the way Malcolm was able to pick up yards?
 GARRETT GILBERT: He did a good job. Again, that's a credit to him as well as our offensive line for the way that they played and won down throughout the game and then in the fourth quarter Malcolm did a really good job of finding those holes and he got out on a couple of them, so that was good for us.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT