NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 10, 2014
Tony Parker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 San Antonio Spurs - 111
  Miami Heat - 92  
   
 Q.   Tony, you guys shot 75% in the first half, new NBA Finals record.   What were you doing to be so effective against such a good defense as Miami?   
TONY PARKER:   I don't know.   It's hard to pick something.   Our ball movement was good and shot the ball very well, obviously.   Hopefully we can do it again.   I know it's going to be hard to shoot like that on the road, but it's just one of those games that it was just going in.  
   
 Q.   Obviously a lot is going to be made of the offense in the first half you guys had on that end of the court.   But defensively what did you do to disrupt their ball handlers and sort of disrupt their confidence?   
TONY PARKER:   When you make shots it helps because, you know, our defense can get back and we can set whatever we want to do.   So you just try to stay in front of them, and they've got great players.   They're a great team, and we know they're going to make some runs and find some ways to score.   
But overall, we did a pretty good job to stay in front of them.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the bench play tonight and how did that help you all take a lot of pressure off you guys?   
TONY PARKER:   The bench is the key for us.   They've been playing very well all season long, and they came through today.   Just have to keep it going.   We know we have a long way to go.  
   
 Q.   In spite of regaining the homecourt advantage in this series, how do you maintain a level of energy, focus and desperation looking ahead to Game 4?   
TONY PARKER:   That's a great question.   We were very disappointed after Game 2.   We felt like our energy level was low and we were not aggressive enough.   So we wanted to make sure whatever happened tonight we played with a lot of energy, played aggressive, and defensively it starts there and it creates offense.   
So we did a pretty good job of that tonight, so we have to sustain it now.   We have to do it for another game.  
   
 Q.   How well did you feel they defended you in the first quarter?   Did it seem like you guys were open all the time or were those tough shots?   
TONY PARKER:   I was just trying to move the ball.   They do a good job on pick‑and‑rolls, and just move it.   The first guy who catches it out of the pick‑and‑roll, he becomes the point guard.   Boris did a great job moving the ball, and Kawhi, Danny, they were aggressive, quick decisions to the basket, and that's what you have to do with an aggressive defense.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT