NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 5, 2014
Tony Parker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.   Tony, how did that ankle feel in game conditions?   How much did the heat play a factor in this game? 
    TONY PARKER:   Ankle felt better and better.   I was a little bit worried in the first quarter, but as it got warmed, got a little bit of rhythm.   And the second half it felt great and the fourth quarter even better.   So I'm excited for Game 2. 

Q.   Tony, what was the key to you guys' play in the fourth quarter?   And the how do you think you guys responded once you knew LeBron was out the rest of the way? 
    TONY PARKER:   Just very proud of the team, we kept pushing.   We know it's not easy.   When Chris Bosh hit that three, it was a heart breaker, but we came out and we said let's keep pushing the pace.   We felt like they were getting tired.   LeBron was asking to be subbed.   We were like, let's keep pushing, get some easy baskets.   Kept Kawhi in the paint and we got some layups for Tiago.   And Danny made some big threes and Kawhi made a big three.   We made some stops at the end and I think overall the pace was good for us. 

Q.   Obviously everybody in the building could feel what the heat and humidity was like here tonight.   What's it like playing through that? 
    TONY PARKER:   Me personally it didn't bother me, felt like in Europe.   Felt like I was playing in the European Championship.   We never have AC in Europe, so it didn't bother me at all. 

Q.   Was there anything that the training staff or anybody was doing during timeouts to make sure guys were hydrated or anything like that? 
    TONY PARKER:   I don't know.   I was just focusing on the game and what I can do to try to help my team. 
    Like I told you, in Europe, you know, we ’re used to it. 

Q.   Tony, Danny struggled all night shooting.   How much confidence did you think he still had in himself in that stretch and‑‑
    TONY PARKER:   I was pushing him hard.   I don't know if you saw but every timeout I was screaming at him and encouraging him, and I'm very proud of him because you never know when he's going to come and nobody said it was easy.   Last year he was on fire but every Finals is different. 
    He just kept his composure, kept playing defense and in the fourth quarter finally he made some big shots.   And I told him after the game I was proud of him, and you have to keep playing.   You're a young player and you're going to get a lot of up and downs, and that's what's going to show your character.   Tonight, you know, he stuck with it. 

Q.   What does it say to commit 22 turnovers and still score 110 points and not to get too down on yourselves in three quarters of play when things seem to be getting away from you? 
    TONY PARKER:   I feel like we got lucky in a sense.   22 turnovers, usually we lose those games.   That's not how we play but you have to give a lot of credit to Miami.   They have a great defense, great rotations, they have a lot of speed, so we tried to move the ball.   We got 30 assists but they're going to create turnovers.   That's what they do and we have to keep playing make sure we don't have our heads down, keep our energy and our pace because they're going to get steals.   They're a great team.   That's why here in the NBA Finals so we have to keep playing and overall I thought we did pretty good with that. 

Q.   Tony, when LeBron scored his last points they were down by two points with four minutes left.   When he left, how did the game change? 
    TONY PARKER:   I just think because of our pace, you know.   I really feel that they were getting tired, and I think we made the stops that we needed and we made big shots.   You know, when LeBron goes out, obviously you lose the best player in the world.   So we realized that, so we took advantage of it. 

Q.   First of all, what did Coach Pop say to you guys and what do you do to prepare for Game 2? 
    TONY PARKER:   Game 2 is huge.   We didn't do anything.   Miami lost Game 1 in 2012 and 2013, and they're the two‑time champion.   They are very focused and they have a great mentality and we know they are going to come back strong, so we need to stay focused and have the mentality that we didn't do anything, we just won one game.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT