NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v SPURS
May 20, 2014
Tony Parker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How do you feel today?   
TONY PARKER:   Good.   Feel good, yeah.   We're going to do a treatment all day, but really happy.  
   
 Q.   Did it feel better or worse than you thought last night?  
TONY PARKER:   Better.   Better, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Were you concerned at all like Manu talked about how you‑‑  
TONY PARKER:   Of course, yeah, I was concerned.   I didn't know how I was going to feel until we started the game.  
   
 Q.   At what point did you realize‑‑  
TONY PARKER:   Like the middle of the first quarter I thought it would be okay.  
   
 Q.   As the game went on did it at all feel sore, tight or anything?   
TONY PARKER:   A little bit towards the end, but that's what I expected.  
   
 Q.   Did it help that you had so much help from Tim that you didn't have to carry‑‑  
TONY PARKER:   Oh, definitely, definitely, the team was great.   He was playing great from the get‑go.  
   
 Q.   What does it do for you guys as a team when Tim has it going like that?  
TONY PARKER:   It helps everybody because scoring two points in the paint, that's the easiest basket you can get in basketball, so when he's playing like that and a lot of confidence and he's going into his moves, hopefully he can keep playing like that and can maybe create double‑team and it will open it up for our shooters.  
   
 Q.   When you see him playing like that, do you ever think back to the old days?  
TONY PARKER:   Oh, definitely.   We kept giving him the ball because he was playing so well, and when he plays like that, everybody feels confident.   
   
 Q.   Why is he still so effective?   Why is he still so effective at age 38?  
TONY PARKER:   Because he's just a great basketball player.   I know it sounds simple, but...  
   
 Q.   Some guys are great at 30, 32, they're not great at 38.   Why has he managed to be as‑‑  
TONY PARKER:   Because I think Pop does a great job managing us during the season and to stay fresh for the Playoffs.   He looks great right now.  
   
 Q.   You're a basketball historian; you passed Isiah Thomas last night on the career playoff assist list and you're just six shy of becoming the 10th player over 1,000.   Is that significant to you when you get to a milestone like that?  
TONY PARKER:   It's like weird.   It feels like a dream, coming from France and to arrive and accomplish all that.   I feel very lucky and very blessed to be a part of a great organization and a great team, and being healthy all those years, and to pass a point guard that I really admired growing up, one of my favorite players, is just a great honor.  
   
 Q.   When you look at the guys ahead of you, almost all of them are in the Hall of Fame or headed there‑‑  
TONY PARKER:   It's almost unrealistic when I look at the list.   It's weird.   
   
 Q.   Milestone question No.2:   You and Tim and Manu tied Magic for most playoff wins.   Just talk about being in that company.   
TONY PARKER:   Same thing.   I feel very lucky and blessed to be healthy and playing all those years and having another opportunity to try to go to the NBA Finals.   We take nothing for granted.   We know how lucky we are, and hopefully we can keep it going.  
   
 Q.   Where does Magic rank among your basketball idols?  
TONY PARKER:   My top three.   
   
 Q.   What is the top three?   
TONY PARKER:   My top three?   I have to put Michael obviously, Magic, and Larry Bird.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT