NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 20, 2013
Tony Parker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 San Antonio Spurs - 88
  Miami Heat - 95 
   
 Q.   Tony, can you talk about 6‑for‑23 in Game 6 and 3‑for‑12 tonight, and how much the hamstring played into that or did or didn't or whatever happened?   
TONY PARKER:   I have no excuse.   I'm not going to put it on my hammy and stuff like that.   I just didn't play well.   My shot was not falling.   Couldn't get in a rhythm tonight.   
   
 Q.   Tony, just what are the emotions right now for this team after coming so close in Game 6 and really fighting all the way to the end in Game 7, to just come up a little bit short?   
TONY PARKER:   Obviously, we're really disappointed.   We had a great opportunity in Game 6, and tonight we did a great fight, but just couldn't get over the hump.   That's life, sports.   
   
 Q.   Tony, Manu was just in here sounding like he still was not quite over Game 6.   Do you think that carried into the game tonight for you guys?   
TONY PARKER:   No, I don't think it matters.   But after the fact‑‑ after Game 7, of course you're going to think about Game 6 and how close we were.   One free throw, one rebound.   But I don't think Game 6 affected Game 7.   
   
 Q.   Tony, you were on the bench with 23 seconds left, and you guys are down by four.   Manu commits a turnover in that situation.   Manu said that Pop wanted shooters on the court.   Do you agree with that strategy?   
TONY PARKER:   Yeah, of course.   Of course, we're down four.   You have to put our best shooters out there.   I always trust Pop and Pop's judgment.   
   
 Q.   Tony, in the last couple of games did they change the way they defended you, particularly coming off the pick‑and‑roll?   
TONY PARKER:   I just missed shots.   I just missed shots.   Just didn't go in.   
   
 Q.   Tony, especially with the way you played, is this the most difficult loss of your career?   
TONY PARKER:   Yeah, it's tough to come so close.   Those last two games are tough, especially Game 6.   
   
 Q.   Tony, I know it's early after this game, but do you give any thoughts about this might be the last time that this group plays together?   
TONY PARKER:   Can't believe you're asking that question.   It's been five, six years you're saying we're too old.   I'm not going to answer that.   
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT