NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 18, 2013
Tony Parker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.   Tony, from what Pop said, it's not in your defensive plan to foul in that situation.   Is that something that players ever think about when you're up three, to foul and not allow somebody like Ray to make a shot like that? 
TONY PARKER:   I have to look again at the play, because I was on Chalmers.   We missed the rebound.   We had two opportunities to take big boards and made a big play. 

Q.   For most of the end of the game you had LeBron on you defending you.   He's done it obviously before in this series.   How much more difficult was it for you to be able to create or score with him late in the game, fourth quarter and overtime? 
TONY PARKER:   He's a great defender, and I just try to do the best I can to try to create and make stuff happen. 

Q.   Tony, you guys have been so good over the years at closing out games when you're in positions like you were.   How do you guys take it that you let this one slip away?   And how do you recover in time for Game 7? 
TONY PARKER:   Obviously, it's a tough loss.   We had a great opportunity to finish it.   But that's basketball.   We can show what we're made of and have a great opportunity‑‑ can't forget we have another opportunity on Thursday to try to win a championship. 

Q.   Tony, can you talk about Pop's substitution patterns.   Tim not being there at the end of regulation, you at the end of overtime.   What was your thoughts about them?   Did you agree with it? 
TONY PARKER:   I don't know.   Me personally, I trust Pop.   Whatever decision he makes‑‑ I was cramping a little bit at the end of the game.   So...   But I'll go with whatever Pop decides. 

Q.   Tony, it seemed like you guys gave Miami your best punch.   Do you have another one for Game 7? 
TONY PARKER:   We have no choice.   We have no choice.   We have to bounce back.   We have to realize we have another great opportunity.   It's going to be another great game.   I'm sure with the guys on the team we'll be ready to go on Thursday. 

Q.   Tony, defensively, what did they do after halftime?   You guys were 16‑for‑49 after shooting 51% in the first half. 
TONY PARKER:   In the second half?   I'll just watch‑‑ we'll watch film.   Right now it's hard to think about everything right now. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT