NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 13, 2013
Tony Parker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Miami Heat - 109
  San Antonio Spurs - 93

Q.   Tony, did you feel limited in any way at all tonight physically? 
TONY PARKER:   It was kind of weak.   I didn't know what to expect.   So the first three, four minutes I was testing it, and the first half it felt okay.   And the second half I think I got fatigued a little bit.   But overall I'm just happy I didn't make it worse.   That was the goal, to not try to get hurt, because Pop was not really happy, meaning I wanted to play and took a little risk.   So I'm happy I'm not worse. 

Q.   If I can follow up:   Can you address the turnover issue tonight.   That's been stressed all along that you can't turn the ball over against this team. 
TONY PARKER:   Yeah, that's one of the keys of the series.   We have to cut out turnovers.   They played great defense tonight.   They take a lot of risks.   That's Miami's identity.   They play very aggressive defense.   They gamble and they take a lot of chances, and tonight it worked.   They made a lot of recovery blocks with LeBron and D‑Wade.   We moved the ball, but they did a good job tonight. 
We're playing a great team, and that's how they play defense, and we just have to try to do better. 

Q.   Tony, what was it about this morning, did you just get up feeling much better for you to say at shootaround you were going to play? 
TONY PARKER:   I just told Pop, let's see how it feels in the first quarter.   And I told Pop I'll be honest with him if it doesn't feel good after the first quarter.   We'll shut it down and not take a risk to get a tear. 

Q.   What does this layoff, these two days do for you?   And did it seem to get a little weaker in the second half? 
TONY PARKER:   It's going to be huge for me.   Obviously definitely got fatigued in the second half.   Those two days I'm going to make sure I do a lot of treatment and get to 100%.   Tonight I was not 100%.   By Sunday that's my goal, to be good to go. 

Q.   Tony, do you guys need to get Manu going in order to kind of pick up and have a chance to close this out? 
TONY PARKER:   Yeah, we definitely need Manu.   I think everybody we need to help him to try to get his confidence going.   But I have a lot of confidence in Manu.   I'm sure he's going to break out of that slump.   I've been playing with him for a long time.   I just know he's going to have a big game soon. 

Q.   Tony, what was your impression of Dwyane Wade tonight compared to what you had seen from him earlier in the postseason? 
TONY PARKER:   That's his best game.   Best game of the playoffs by far.   He shot the ball very well.   That's what great players do.   They show up in big games.   That's what he did.   He played great. 

Q.   It's unimaginable that you would see Tiago Splitter defending Dwyane Wade in his prime.   Do you think that had any impact?   And do you think we'll ever see Tiago Splitter try to guard Dwyane Wade ever again? 
TONY PARKER:   You know, the game is about adjustments.   They started small, and Pop wanted to stay big.   That's what he decided to do, and after one minute he went small too.   I don't think it will happen again, but sometimes you have to gamble.   Miami, that's what they do on defense, they gamble a lot.   They're very aggressive.   And that's what we did, and it didn't work out.   So just going to watch film and make more adjustments. 

Q.   Tony, in the second half did you feel you were being defended any differently?   Or was it just the fact that you said fatigue‑‑
TONY PARKER:   It was just fatigue.   I just missed shots.   I had great shots.   I missed two tear drops and the lay‑up I was right there, couldn't get my lift.   They are doing the same thing on me since the beginning.   Very aggressive on pick‑and‑rolls, stuff like that.   I just missed easy shots, and hopefully I'll get more healthy and I'll be better by Sunday. 

Q.   When you left briefly in the third, was that any medical purpose? 
TONY PARKER:   I was just checking‑‑ I had a big thing on my thigh.   I was just trying to make it better and tighter. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT