NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 12, 2013
Tony Parker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Could you clarify how you're doing and what you saw from the MRI today.   
TONY PARKER:   I got a grade I hamstring strain, and so I'm day to day.   
   
 Q.   Are you confident about tomorrow?   How do you feel?   
TONY PARKER:   We'll see.   We'll see tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   When you said last night that you felt weird, you felt something, the doctors confirmed that?   
TONY PARKER:   Yeah.   Today the MRI just confirmed what I felt was a strain, and I was just hoping it was not a tear or a defect.   So the good news it's not a tear.   It's not a defect.   So that's the good news.   Now I just have to see how I'm going to feel tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Will you try to do anything other than icing and stretching before tomorrow?   Will you try to get on the court or do anything before tomorrow's game?   
TONY PARKER:   I'll do different stuff to see how I feel.   It depends on when I wake up tomorrow how I feel.   
   
 Q.   Is this similar to any other injuries you have had in the past?   And can you compare it maybe to something you've experienced before?   
TONY PARKER:   No.   Something new for me.   We'll see.   
   
 Q.   Does it help that some of the guys like Danny Green, Gary Neal have been playing so well in this series that maybe you don't have to put so much pressure on yourself to try to do too much for your team?   
TONY PARKER:   I'm not putting pressure on myself.   The whole series I have to be patient.   A lot of the Miami defense focus is on me.   So my teammates are taking advantage of it.   And they are playing great.   And hopefully they can keep it going.   
   
 Q.   Tony, when you had the calf injury against Golden State, had that been regular season would you have played?   And also how do you determine to play or not when you have a Finals situation rather than regular season?   
TONY PARKER:   We'll see.   We'll talk with Pop.   Coach Pop always prefer the rest, to avoid injury.   If it was the regular season I would definitely have rest.   I would not play.   And same thing here, it's an injury, and so we'll see.   We'll see how I feel tomorrow.   Talk with Pop.   
Obviously it's The Finals, you know.   I know Pop is always going to prefer we take no risk.   
   
 Q.   How much pressure do you personally feel?   Do you feel a lot of pressure to be out there?   
TONY PARKER:   I don't feel pressure.   I just talk with Pop and we'll make a decision.   
   
 Q.   Magic Johnson said on a conference call the other day that when he found out he had an hamstring problem in the '89 Finals, he got emotional and cried.   He knew his Finals were pretty much over.   Were there any similar reactions from you when you heard from the doctor?   Or if you had to tell me 50‑50 or 60‑40 whether you would be on the floor tomorrow night, what would you say?   
TONY PARKER:   I don't know right now.   I don't know.   I'm just going to stay positive and see how I feel tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   If you can't go, what do you think about Cory and the guys that can replace you?   What do you think that they are able to do?   
TONY PARKER:   I don't know.   We'll see tomorrow.   I can't answer that question right now.   
   
 Q.   What do you think about what you've seen from Cory in the past?   
TONY PARKER:   You know, Cory has been playing very well for us the whole playoffs.   He's been battling to get that backup position.   Pop stuck with him the whole playoffs.   I think he's doing a great job.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT