NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 9, 2013
Tony Parker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.   Tony, they switched over LeBron on you for a couple of possessions in the first half, but Mario played you for most of the third quarter.   Did he do anything differently in terms of being aggressive than in Game 1? 
TONY PARKER:   Not really.   They were really aggressive, obviously.   You have to give a lot of credit to their defense.   They played great defense tonight.   They were very aggressive on the pick‑and‑rolls and all our drives. 
And so just have to take care of the basketball better. 

Q.   Tony, can you talk about when the Heat get a variety and it's not just LeBron or not just Dwyane, when guys like Miller and Allen are hitting shots, how much more of a complex puzzle does it become when there's five, six, seven guys, counting Birdman also, that you have to account for? 
TONY PARKER:   That's why they're a great team.   That's why they are the defending champs.   They have great role players and they played great tonight.   We're going to have to make some adjustments on a couple the stuff defensively. 
But overall, just have to give them credit.   They played great basketball, and we have to take care of the basketball better. 

Q.   Tony, in the second half when there was that 33‑5 run they went on, what was going on that you guys just couldn't get your footing and couldn't get back on track during that run? 
TONY PARKER:   They had a great run.   It's just basketball.   It's a game of runs, and they made a hell of a one.   And we just tonight couldn't find answers tonight. 

Q.   Tony, it's possible that all three of the Spurs' stars don't have it going on a given night.   Are you surprised all three of you guys were sluggish? 
TONY PARKER:   It's going to happen sometimes.   You have to give them a lot of credit.   They played great defense.   I had some good looks, Manu had some good looks and Timmy had some great looks.   Just happens sometimes.   It's a mix of them playing great defense and us just missing shots. 

Q.   Was there anything specifically they did different on you? 
TONY PARKER:   They were just more aggressive.   So we just have to make sure that, like I said earlier, we have to take care of the basketball.   I've said the last two days if we can keep our turnovers under 10, it would be better against that team, because every time you have turnovers, it's a quick fast break. 

Q.   Tony, when you and Manu and Tim were sitting together on the bench in the fourth when it was out of reach, did you have any discussions among yourselves about the approach for next game? 
TONY PARKER:   Not really.   Not really.   We'll talk on the plane.   During the game we didn't say much. 

Q.   What will that discussion be like? 
TONY PARKER:   We have to play better.   Definitely have to play better.   You know, we're playing the defending champs.   They're a great team.   We knew they were going to come in and play with a lot more energy and play harder.   That's what they did tonight. 
So it's always easy to bounce back after a loss, and now it's our turn to see how we're going to handle our loss and how we're going to respond. 

Q.   Tony, what bothers you more, the offensive shooting struggles or turnovers or the fact on defense it got away from you? 
TONY PARKER:   A little bit of both.   Defensively obviously we can make some adjustments and do some stuff better.   The role players definitely hurt us tonight.   They played good.   And turnovers.   That was the biggest thing.   And it starts with me. 

Q.   Tony, holding LeBron to 18 and 17 points in the first two games, do you feel good about the defense you're playing on him and the way you are making him work? 
TONY PARKER:   You can argue, you know‑‑ we'll see.   We'll talk with the coaching staff and see if we're going to keep doing that. 
Obviously LeBron is unbelievable.   He's going to score.   But right now the other players they are playing great, too.   So we can't have both.   We'll see. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT