NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 8, 2013
Tony Parker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Tony, Dwyane Wade said yesterday the playoffs are not fun until you win, but you guys seem like you're having a pretty good time.   And you said that being back means so much to you.   Is it possible that the old boring Spurs are actually a fun team now and you guys enjoy yourselves?   
TONY PARKER:   We definitely are having fun.   I think we appreciate every moment.   We don't take anything for granted, because it's been a long time.   It's been six years.   Felt like forever.   After the Memphis series, there was a lot of emotions.   
I think we are really happy to be back, because I think we realize how hard it is to go to The Finals.   I said it earlier in the week, I was 21 when I won my first one.   Think it's going to be easy.   Now I'm 31.   So I'm just happy to be back and I'm enjoying every moment.   
   
 Q.   Tony, how much work have you seen Danny Green put in to become the player that he is becoming for you?   And how effective was he in Game 1?   
TONY PARKER:   I'm very proud of Danny.   We had him, then we cut him, came back, cut him, came back and he just showed a lot of toughness mentally.   It's not easy to make an NBA team.   And Danny is very important in what we do.   
He's one of the best three‑point shooters in the NBA.   Makes my job easy for me to penetrate, to have shooters like that.   He's a great defender.   For a long regular season, sometimes I can rest.   He always has my back and taking point guards for a couple of minutes.   He's a great teammate, and even more important, he's a great person.   Off the court he's the best.   
   
 Q.   Tony, what do you have to do differently when LeBron is guarding you as opposed to Chalmers or Cole?   How does your game change?   
TONY PARKER:   I think I have to be patient.   I think that's the whole key for me in this series.   Be patient.   If they trap pick‑and‑rolls or any kind of plays for me, I just have to trust my teammates and keep being aggressive.   Obviously he's one of the best defenders in the NBA.   He's a very, very good defender.   So I have to make sure I don't force anything.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT