NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: GRIZZLIES v SPURS
May 23, 2013
Tony Parker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  TONY PARKER:   It's a great honor.   I don't take it for granted.   It's a very, very good league, the best players in the world, and it's a great honor.   It's nice to be with Timmy, and now we have to focus on the team and try to make it work and go to The Finals.   But it's definitely a great honor.

Q.   Obviously it's a team game, but just from the individual standpoint is that the award you covet the best is the all‑NBA before anything else?   Is that what you set out for?
TONY PARKER:   Me when I start the season I just try to have an All‑Star year.   That's where we try to focus.   I talked with Pop before the season and he gives me different challenges how to have an All‑Star year, and that's my main focus.   You can't control that kind of stuff. 
But every year I try to improve and get better and try to help my team the best I can.

Q.   Can you talk about what it's been like to play with Tim, just his professionalism?
TONY PARKER:   I feel very blessed.   I feel very lucky to play with Timmy.   He's a great example for me.   All those years, the discipline and the dedication to the game and to our team and to the Spurs' organization is unbelievable.   It's a great example to follow, and to be all‑NBA first‑team at 37, that's not bad, huh?   That's not bad at all.

Q.   I wonder if anybody has ever done that before. 
TONY PARKER:   It's unbelievable.   He's having a great year, and like I said earlier, we want to make it worth it this year, so let's try to keep focusing and enjoy today, and then Saturday let's go back to work.

Q.   Pop said he thought Tim was really touched when he announced to the team that he was first‑team all‑NBA.   Could you tell that looking at him? 
TONY PARKER:   I don't know.   You know, it's hard to read.   I don't know.   I think Pop knows better.   He's been knowing Tim for a long time.   I've been knowing Tim for 12 years now, a long time, but I don't know if he's touched.   That's something you'll have to ask him.

Q.   You wouldn't want to play poker with him?
TONY PARKER:   No, he's a good poker player.   We play all the time together, all the time.

Q.   Did you find out anything today about your health?
TONY PARKER:   Yeah, they did it this morning.   Everything is fine.   They still see a lot of blood, but the size is going down, and so like I said yesterday, I feel like I'm turning the corner and I feel like I'll be fine for Saturday.   It feels better. 

Q.   Is the size now like a marble at this point?
TONY PARKER:   Now it's like spread, spread out.   That's why I feel like my Achilles was inflamed, and now it's okay.

Q.   What helps it, just rest?
TONY PARKER:   Yeah, rest and treatment.   Obviously I do a lot of treatment, ice and massage it and stuff like that to move all the blood out of there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT