NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: GRIZZLIES v SPURS
May 19, 2013
Tony Parker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.   We had asked you a couple days ago just how you were going to be able to get three‑point shots against this team.   You made 14 tonight and that was more than they'd given up in two years.   How were you able to manufacture those? 
TONY PARKER:   Just one of those games.   It happens sometimes.   Our ball movement was great tonight and I shot the ball very well.   It's just one game, and we'll try to do the same thing in Game 2, but I'm sure they're going to make some adjustments and they're going to try to do different stuff.   So we'll see what happens. 
But tonight when we shoot the ball like that, we're pretty hard to stop.   But we know that it's not going to happen every game.   I'm not even sure we're going to shoot like that for the rest of the series.   Against Golden State we couldn't hit a shot.   Tonight we made some. 

Q.   Will you talk about you guys' defense on Zach Randolph tonight? 
TONY PARKER:   Yeah, we tried to make it hard on him, double‑team.   Obviously he's their best scorer.   He's a beast inside. 
We know he's not going to play like that every game.   It's just sometimes it happens.   It's a long season, and the Playoffs are tough, and he just came out of a series to play against Ibaka and Perkins, two of the best defenders in the league.   He had an off night, but I've known Zach for a long time.   We're from the same draft, and I know he's going to come out strong in Game 2.   Our bigs did a good job and going to have to do a good job in Game 2.

Q.   Were you surprised they were so aggressive helping on those drives and leaving your shooters open? 
TONY PARKER:   That was maybe their strategy for Game 1.   Memphis has the best defense in the NBA.   They do a great job of packing in the paint, and they force you to make shots.   And tonight we made shots.   We'll see, maybe in Game 2 they'll do the same thing and we're not going to make shots.   So we'll see. 

Q.   Again tonight another high ratio of assists to made field goals.   Do you feel like you've gotten back to your brand of basketball? 
TONY PARKER:   Definitely, definitely.   Got away a little bit in the first couple of games against Golden State.   In Game 5, we had 30 assists and played Spurs basketball better.   Ball movement was better.   Good to great.   We always try to do that.   Sometimes defenses they do a good job of playing aggressive and making it hard on us, but we have to stick with that.   That's who we are. 

Q.   Memphis has seemed to thrive this season when they're in a hole.   They always seem to be down and bounce back.   What will you talk about and what have you seen from them this season that's made them so resilient?
TONY PARKER:   You know, Memphis is a very tough team.   They're very tough mentally, and I can promise you now, nobody is happy in that locker room because we were up 2‑0 last year and we lost.   It's just one game.   It means nothing.   We still have a long way to go. 

Q.   Just talk about how you guys came out and started the game.   Lionel said they maybe were hyper.   Would you talk about what your mindset was at the start? 
TONY PARKER:   Our team?   Our mindset was pretty simple, respect the game plan.   We talked about it yesterday, what we wanted to do on the offense and defense and overall.   The game plan worked pretty good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT