NBA PLAYOFFS ROUND TWO: SPURS v WARRIORS
May 10, 2013
Tony Parker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Tony, it had been two games of talk about the Warriors' backcourt and Steph Curry.   Does that still do something for your motor or not great motivation?
TONY PARKER:   No, not at all.   I played for the Spurs a long time.   I don't care about that. 
I play for my teammates and Coach Pop and the City of San Antonio.   That kind of stuff doesn't motivate me, no. 

Q.   It's the calf that's hurting you.   Is it going to affect you next game?
TONY PARKER:   I don't know right now.   We'll see.   I'll do treatment all night long.   Got kicked pretty bad.   I don't know if it was Bogut or Jack.   But right now it's a good one.   It's pretty big. 
So we'll see how I feel tomorrow.   Have no choice.   Got to play on Sunday.   It's a quick turnaround.   Try to do my best to do treatment and be ready by 12:30. 

Q.   I noticed subtle things in your warmups, there seemed to be a look in your eye.   You hit four of your first five shots.   Did you feel you had to carry some of the load because Tim is coming off the sickness, Manu is having a tough time?
TONY PARKER:   I was just trying to be aggressive, watch film of the first two games.   They always trying to push me left.   That's the shot they were giving me.   In warmups, that was almost the only shot I practiced, going left, make sure I knock down that shot.   Once I make that shot, it opens up everything. 
I was just determined to make sure I take good shots and be aggressive the whole game. 

Q.   When was the play when you got kicked?
TONY PARKER:   It was in the fourth quarter.   I don't remember exactly when. 

Q.   Tony, this sounds obvious, but how important was it to get this win? 
TONY PARKER:   It's a huge win.   It was a must‑win for us, a must‑win situation for us.   It's a big win for us.   On the road, in one of the best arenas in the NBA.   They have a great crowd here. 
I thought our team was very focused.   By far our best game in the series.   The first two games, we didn't play well enough.   Got lucky in the first one.   The second one they kick our butt.   Tonight we played a lot more physical, better defense.   Offense, we moved the ball. 
Hopefully we can do it again. 

Q.   Seemed like you were able to create more space tonight.   Was that off the jumper going left?
TONY PARKER:   Yeah, definitely.   I knocked down my first three or four shots.   I was able to go right and create for my teammates, go inside.   I think it was pretty good the way I started and opened up for me and my teammates.   We got some great shots after that. 
The ball movement was great first half.   In Game2, we only had four assists.   That's not Spurs basketball.   Tonight we had a lot more assists, so it's better.

Q.   There's always such a calm confidence with your team.   When you come into a game like this, been in this situation so many times before, how confident are you as a team?
TONY PARKER:   Well, we've been together for a long time.   A lot of veterans on the team, a lot of experience.   We didn't panic.   We knew we were not playing our best basketball.   Golden State played better than us the first two games.   We watched film, tried to see what we could do better. 
It's going to be a long series.   It's just one win on the road, but it's just one win.   I expect it to be a long series.   I expect Golden State to come back, make adjustments and play better on Sunday.   We're going to have to match that, match their energy, make sure we don't start like the first two games.

Q.   There was a lot of talk after the first two games, the backcourt of the Golden State Warriors, does that fire you up as a competitor?
TONY PARKER:   Somebody asked me that question before.   I said no.   For me, I've been in San Antonio for so long, I don't pay attention of top five point guards.   They always forget about me anyway.   It doesn't matter (smiling). 
It doesn't matter to me anymore, seriously.   I play for the City of San Antonio, for the Spurs, all our fans, Coach Pop, my teammates.   That's what makes me go.   When Coach Pop say, Okay, you going to do something tonight, you're going to be aggressive, that's what make me going, is Coach Pop.   He's always the one who is challenging me. 
Before this game, he definitely gave me a challenge. 
Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT