NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v SPURS
June 1, 2012
Tony Parker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   When you guys lost against the Lakers way back when, you guys called that an embarrassing loss.   Do you feel like last night's the same way?   
TONY PARKER:   It's a tough loss.   They played great, but I give them credit.   We'll see how we're going to bounce back and how we're going to react after the loss.  
   
 Q.   What did you think of having to go up against Thabo?  
TONY PARKER:   That's not the first time.   They did that in the past.   They put Thabo on me.   I have to remain aggressive and choosing my spot.  
   
 Q.   In the past, how have you overcome that situation?   
TONY PARKER:   I just have to be aggressive.  
   
 Q.   How does it remind you of play (No microphone)?  
TONY PARKER:   Probably be better moving the ball, and always try to do the extra pass and find a better shot.   And we'll try to do the same thing.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel the ball maybe didn't move as much last night?   
TONY PARKER:   Yeah, a little bit.   Maybe we did too many isos and stuff like that, switched the pick‑and‑rolls.   So we'll do some stuff to make sure we keep the ball moving.  
   
 Q.   In the past you tried to fight fire with fire with offense.   Last night it seemed you decided to do it with defense instead?  
TONY PARKER:   They did a great job.   Give them credit.   They did a great job.   That's the bottom line.   They played better.   We can talk about offense, but we have to play better defense too.  
   
 Q.   How do you expect this team to respond now?   
TONY PARKER:   We always react well after a loss.   So we have a great opportunity tomorrow and a great challenge.   We're playing a very, very good team.   They're playing very good at home, so it's going to be a tough test.  
   
 Q.   Pop said last night he thought Oklahoma City played like a closeout game with desperation.   Is it tough to match that desperation?   
TONY PARKER:   We have to play and match the energy.   We can't be satisfied.   We didn't do anything.   We only won two games at home.   So tomorrow's going to be a great challenge.  
   
 Q.   Pop said he thought the best switch they made on defense was actually Serge on Manu.   
TONY PARKER:   Oh, definitely, definitely.   The way they switched every pick‑and‑roll with Manu helped a lot in that game.   I expect Manu to bounce back and have a big game tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT