NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v SPURS
May 31, 2012
Tony Parker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.   What did they do differently against you defensively?   You had the big game?
TONY PARKER:   They played with a lot of energy.   They played harder than us tonight and deserved the win.   They just played better.   We have to play a lot better if we want to win here.

Q.   Pops said they played harder and smarter than you guys tonight.   Can you explain why? 
TONY PARKER:   I don't know.   We'll try to watch film and try to see what we can do better.   But they definitely played with a lot more energy, a lot more passion than us tonight.

Q.   You got the sense in Game 2 that they were going to maybe try to turn this into more of a physical series the way they played in the second half?
TONY PARKER:   It's been physical the whole series.   All three games have been very physical.   They played us physical tonight as the first two games.

Q.   I was wondering if you could talk a little about Sefolosha guarding you and maybe the difficulties that that presented compared to some of the other guys that have checked you in this series? 
TONY PARKER:   They did that in the past.   OKC put Thabo on me last year or two years ago.   Nothing different for me.   I just have to choose my spots and keep being aggressive.

Q.   Were you guys surprised at his offensive output?   He's a defensive guy, but he goes for 19?
TONY PARKER:   That is the strategy.   You have to stop when you want to slow down Durant and Westbrook.   We give him a lot of wide open shots, and he made his shots tonight.   He shot the ball well.

Q.   It seemed that their big guys when they switched out on you Perkins and Ibaka, they took it as a challenge to slow you up?
TONY PARKER:   Actually, they didn't do it that much on me.   It was more on Manu.   They switched pick‑and‑rolls on Manu.   Manu will figure it out.   He'll be more aggressive next game.   Against me they didn't do that that much.   It was still like trapping me and trying to make the pass tougher. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT