NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v SPURS
May 28, 2012
Tony Parker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How incredible was that spark that Manu provided last night? 
TONY PARKER:   He played great last night.   We needed him to do that, and I was very happy for him.   He was very active.   Got everybody involved, and he was aggressive for himself.

Q.   What makes him such a clutch player like that? 
TONY PARKER:   I don't know.   He's been doing that his whole career for us.

Q.   Can you describe the Stephen Jackson from your '03 team versus the Stephen Jackson that you guys have now? 
TONY PARKER:   Pretty much the same.   He's playing with a lot of fire, a lot of passion, a lot of energy.   He did a great job defensively in the fourth quarter to try to make it tough for Durant, and he made a huge three.   That was big at the top of the key.

Q.   (No microphone)?
TONY PARKER:   No, not really, not really.   He's been doing that his whole career.   He played well in Game 1, and I expect him to play like that the whole series.

Q.   How did you feel like you got into their shooters and Kevin and Harden and Westbrook last night defensively? 
TONY PARKER:   We're going to try to do the best job we can.   It's not easy to stop them.   They're a very good team. 
They have great scorers.   We'll try to do our best to contain them.   But we know tomorrow's going to be even harder.

Q.   Safe to say you were pleased with what you did with Westbrook last night? 
TONY PARKER:   Yeah, he's going to come back very strong tomorrow.   He missed some shots that he usually makes.   I think he was a little bit rusty from not playing for a week, so I expect him to bounce back and have a big game tomorrow.

Q.   What is your interaction like with him on the court? 
TONY PARKER:   We all focus, and we both try to make our team better and try to do the stuff we can to make our team better.

Q.   Do you see any similarities between you and him? 
TONY PARKER:   We both are very aggressive point guards, and we try to be aggressive at all times.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT