NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SPURS v LAKERS
May 26, 2008
Tony Parker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Does this team have its confidence back after Game 3? 
 TONY PARKER: To be honest with you, we never lost it. We lost two games. We lost two games in New Orleans and we are in the same situation right now. We won Game 3 and we know Game 4 will be even harder. So we just have to play better basketball and now we just have to maintain it.

 Q. Does home make that much difference? 
 TONY PARKER: So far yes. But we know we have to do well at home and we have to win one over there. Right now we just focus on Game 4. That's all we care about is to win Game 4 and get back to even.

 Q. Everybody talks about the offense. But you guys played solid defense. 
 TONY PARKER: Definitely, you know. Obviously offense will help. When you make shots it helps. But I think it is because of our defense. Our defense looked pretty solid last night, made stops and was able to get out and transition and get some easy baskets. That's how Manu hit his 3s, too, had big 3s. 

 Q. Kobe said this morning his defense sucked last night. What kind of -- what do you expect out of their defense tomorrow night? 
 TONY PARKER: I think they are going to play even harder. They are going to hold and grab and just play very, very physical. Just play with a lot more energy. 

 Q. Your offense goes kind of around you, Manu, and Duncan. Do all three of you guys have to play well as a team to win? 
 TONY PARKER: I think we have to play well. It is the same thing for everything. Kobe, Gasol and Lamar Odom have to play well for the Lakers to win. I think everything is like that. The top two, three guys have to play well. And then if you can have help with your bench.

 Q. Do you think your pacing was better?
 TONY PARKER: Yeah, I thought everything was better last night. Our pacing was definitely better. I thought we moved pretty good on our feet, myself and Manu was penetrating, guys was getting open. 
 I think overall offense was pretty good last night.

 Q. Brent was saying there may not be a true point guard matchup in this particular series. 
 TONY PARKER: Definitely, definitely. If anybody can bring the ball up for Lakers, we saw Lamar bring the ball up, Derek Fisher, Kobe, we just have to be ready.

 Q. (Question about Manu)?
 TONY PARKER: He told us he was feeling good in Game 2. He told us Game 2 he was feeling fine; it just didn't go his way. Sometimes it happens. Sometimes you have a bad game. It happens to anybody. 
 And last night, he made his first two shots and that helped his confidence when you make your first two shots. Then he was rolling after that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT