NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SPURS v LAKERS
May 22, 2008
Tony Parker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. After sleeping on it last night, how do you wake up? How are you feeling about what happened?   
 TONY PARKER: Feel bad, you know, because I had a great opportunity. At the same time, we have to forget it. It is just one game. Get another chance tomorrow. So I can't wait for tomorrow and, you know, try to win this game.  
  
  Q. What changed for you in the second half last night? You had an outstanding first half, and then 1-7 and only the one assist.   
 TONY PARKER: The second they did a good job playing defense. They liked to trap me on the pick-and-rolls and the hard hedge. And then my wide-open shots, I had some great looks and it was not going in. I just had a tough second half.  
  
  Q. Did if feel like third quarters in New Orleans a little bit?   
 TONY PARKER: Not really. Not really, because we were up 20. After -- I think after we were beginning the fourth quarter, we were still up 7, up 8. It was just different. They made a great come-back.  
  
  Q. How hard is it to forget that?   
 TONY PARKER: We have to forget it. We have to forget it. Because that's not going to help us in Game 2. We just have to focus on Game 2.  
  
  Q. The fact we talked about you have been through this so many times, does that make it easier?   
 TONY PARKER: Definitely. I think because we have a group that's very experienced, that's going to help. So I think everybody understands on the team we have to forget Game 1.   
 It is just one game. We lost it and I will get another chance tomorrow.  
  
  Q. In Game 2 when they trap you on the pick-and-rolls, how do you adjust your offensive game so you guys can still get plenty of opportunities at the rim?   
 TONY PARKER: We will do some stuff. Obviously I can't talk about it. But we'll do some stuff to make sure guys stay aggressive, myself and Manu, to try get everybody involved and still be aggressive.  
  
  Q. Tim seemed to be having a great night and then all of a sudden --  
 TONY PARKER: Definitely great.  
  
  Q. Is that something you have to concentrate on Game 2?  
 TONY PARKER: Tim did great. Obviously, they weren't double-teaming. If you don't double-team Timmy, he is going to score. He did a good job of that last game, and I think we should keep doing that.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT