NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: JAZZ v SPURS
May 30, 2007
Tony Parker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Tony, did you intend to test Deron's ankle and go right at him early knowing he might be a little -- 
 TONY PARKER:  I didn't even know that he was hurt.  I didn't even know, so ... 

 Q.  So the answer would be no? 
 TONY PARKER:  No. 

 Q.  Were you trying to get to the basket early? 
 TONY PARKER:  I was just trying to be aggressive.  I had a lot of success the first two games going to the basket at home, and so I was just trying to be in the same mentality and be in attack mode and try to create for myself and for my teammates. 

 Q.  Can you just talk about the series-long struggle with Deron, the battle that you two waged? 
 TONY PARKER:  It was a great battle, great battle.  Deron played with a lot of confidence.  He played unbelievable in the series. 
 Everything was going.  His outside shot, penetration, he was finding guys.  That team is going to be good for a long time.  They are a young team, and I'm sure they learned a lot from that series.  And so they are going to be tough in the future.  And Deron, obviously, is going to be a great player. 

 Q.  First of all, congratulations.  Have you had a chance to talk to some of the guys -- maybe this is their first trip to the Finals, what they can expect and what's going through their head? 
 TONY PARKER:  On our team?  First of all, I'm very happy for those guys, especially Michael Finley, you know, and Fabricio Oberto, very disappointed last year when we lost against Dallas. 
 You saw them in the locker room, just during the game I was happy for all the new guys.  It is an unbelievable experience and it is going to be 50 times better if we do go all the way.  So we have to stay focused and see who we are going to play and see what happens. 

 Q.  That first quarter, it seemed to be the best start you had to a game all season long. 
 TONY PARKER:  Oh, yeah. 

 Q.  And maybe in the past recent years at least for the Spurs. 
 TONY PARKER:  Our first quarter was unbelievable.  I can't remember since I have been with the Spurs shooting the ball like that.  Our defense was great.  Our offense was great.  Everybody was knocking down shots. 
 I think that's why we won the game.  In the first quarter we were up 20 and can't ask for a better start. 
 Maybe our best start since I have been a Spur. 

 Q.  Nobody wants to say which team they want to play.  Do you feel like you match up with one team better than the other? 
 TONY PARKER:  I really don't care who we play.  Detroit, Cleveland, both are very good teams, very physical, and so I really don't care.  It doesn't matter.  We are going to prepare for both and see what happens. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT