NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: JAZZ v SPURS
May 27, 2007
Tony Parker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  What was the difference between, say, Deron last season and now?   
 TONY PARKER:  And now?   
  
  Q.  Yeah.   
 TONY PARKER:  I think confidence.  I think everybody knows in basketball when you play with a lot of confidence, you know, you can play a lot different.  He is playing with a lot of confidence right now.   
  
  Q.  Tony, was it tougher on you in Game 3 than it had been in Games 1 and 2 physically?   
 TONY PARKER:  No, not really.  Not really.  I just -- maybe I could be more aggressive, you know, and try to penetrate more, try to get my teammates more involved, play a little bit more aggressive on defense, too.   
 So I think everybody can do a little bit more, play with more energy.   
  
  Q.  Did you feel you were getting hit more when you were going in the lane in Game 3?   
 TONY PARKER:  Definitely, definitely.  They played better defense.  Obviously the whole team was more focused, stopping me and Manu getting in the paint and trying to get shots for our teammates and shots for ourselves.   
  
  Q.  Was it a tighter-called game, as well?   
 TONY PARKER:  I don't like to talk about it.   
  
  Q.  Is it difficult for you guys to stay in the rhythm when Tim is not on the floor?   
 TONY PARKER:  In the first half, you know, he got in foul trouble and, you know, we did a pretty good job to stay ahead and got a good lead.   
 Was up four at half time, the second time he got in foul trouble, we had a hard time just staying in the game.  Timmy is not just huge in offense and defense, in defense he is the key for us.  So he was not in there, so it definitely hurt us in the paint.   
 I think they scored 50 points in the paint.  That's way too much.   
  
  Q.  Manu said last night when someone isn't there for whatever reason, fouls, not having a good game, someone else steps up.  Last night really no one else stepped up.   
 TONY PARKER:  That's true.  We had a hard time at both ends of the court.  It was just not our game.  Everybody was hitting shots on their team, even Jarron Collins was hitting shots.  It was just a good game for them.  You have to give them credit.   
 Now it is a great time for us tomorrow to somehow react and show we are proud and play with better energy and just not let them outwork us.   
 I just think they played better than us in every part of the game.   
  
  Q.  How do you respond when you have had a bad game?   
 TONY PARKER:  My six years in San Antonio, we always responded pretty well in big games, especially when we lose by 20.  We always had some pretty good reaction.  Hopefully we can do the same thing.   
  
  Q.  Did they change up their coverage a little on the screen and roll, maybe not shove quite as hard?   
 TONY PARKER:  I think it was maybe more like straining and kind of letting me go inside and then collapse.  They change their strategy.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT