NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: JAZZ v SPURS
May 26, 2007
Tony Parker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Tony, can you just describe Deron's game tonight, how he played against you, how he attacked you and what he did defensively to keep you out of the lane a little bit?   
 TONY PARKER:  He played good tonight.  He was very aggressive from the beginning of the game.  His outside shot was going, too, making some threes.   
 He was just aggressive, getting everybody involved.  He had a good game tonight.   
  
  Q.  Turnovers again were a problem.  You talked about that after Game 2, when Timmy had 8.  Were they doing anything different on him, coming at him harder?   
 TONY PARKER:  All three games we had a hard time to keep our turnovers down.  We need to do a better job to try to control the ball and make better decisions, because on the road, you know, it is going to pay.  They got a lot of fast, big points, easy points from our turnovers.  We need to take care of the ball, especially on the road.   
 At home it didn't hurt us that much, but now we can see we need to do a better job with that.  That's the key against them, ball movement, defense.  Everybody is in the paint and we need to do a better job on that.   
  
  Q.  Did Tim's foul trouble kind of take the wind out of you guys in the third quarter?  It looks like once he went to the bench, that's where it started.   
 TONY PARKER:  The first half we did a good job when he wasn't in foul trouble.  In the third quarter, picked up his fourth kind of quick.  So we tried to stay in the game and tried to run the offense.  But it was kind of tough.  They made their run and they were up 10 at the end of the third quarter.   
 Definitely third quarter we didn't play that well on offense, and it hurt us when Tim went to the bench.   
  
  Q.  How would you rate this place as far as toughest place to play in the league?   
 TONY PARKER:  They've got great fans.  It is a great crowd, great atmosphere.  When you are a basketball player you love to play those type of games.   
 It is great out there.  Hopefully, we can play a little bit better in game 4.   
  
  Q.  Has Williams made much improvement from his first year to second year as any young point guard you have seen come into the league in a while?   
 TONY PARKER:  Gilbert Arenas improved a lot from his rookie season to his second year, but he definitely improved a lot.  He is playing very well right now.  He is playing with a lot of confidence.   
  
  Q.  Did they keep you out of the lane any better this game than they did last game?   
 TONY PARKER:  I think they did a better job tonight obviously.  They were really focused, you know, to not letting me penetrate and get wide-open shots from my shooters or from myself.   
 They did a good job.  You have to give them credit overall, offense, defense.  They played great tonight.  Now we we'll see how we can react and how can we do better, watch some film tomorrow and come back a little bit stronger and better energy.   
 I thought they outplayed us tonight, and they wanted the game more than us.  We can't let that happen.   
  
  Q.  After the way you guys dominated the first two games, are you surprised for this outcome?   
 TONY PARKER:  We had a great first quarter.  We was up in the first quarter.  We was up after the first half and we just had a terrible second half.  They just played better than us in the second half.  We can't have those let-downs.  We can't think it is going to be easy, especially here in Utah.   
 We had an okay first half.  We was up 4.  Second half was bad.  So we will see what we can do better.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT