NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: JAZZ v SPURS
May 21, 2007
Tony Parker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  So you didn't want to take the day off?   
 TONY PARKER:  I had to go and do a little bit of treatment.  I got my right shoulder hurting a little bit and the knees, but it's okay.  I wanted to make Tom James happy, so I came.   
  
  Q.  Thank you on behalf of Tom James.  Was this a needed day off?   
 TONY PARKER:  Oh, definitely.  I think everybody will enjoy the day off.  We have been playing every two days for, I don't know, the last four or five games.  It is definitely a good one.  Pop is always good with that, to give us some rest.  So it is a good day to do treatment and recharge our batteries and get ready for tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  Talk about the difference defensively from last year when you had Steve Nash?   
 TONY PARKER:  Totally different.  Phoenix plays very fast and takes quick shots.  Utah plays a little bit like us.  They go inside with Boozer.  We have to make adjustments and stop what they like to do.   
  
  Q.  What about Deron specifically?   
 TONY PARKER:  Deron played good.  He was more focused.  Boozer and Okur, the outside shots went in.  He played well.  We need to contain him.  We did a good job on Boozer and Okur and Deron Williams went off.  So we have to contain them.   
  
  Q.  Tony, you have personal success against Utah.  When you are playing them, do you know that in the back of your mind?  It just doesn't seem like they have an answer to stop you.   
 TONY PARKER:  It doesn't matter right now because it is Conference Finals.  We don't care how much success we have against them much.  The only thing that counts is Game 2 right now.  It doesn't matter how many times we beat them.  We know Utah is a very good team.   
 If they are here, it is because they played very well and so we have to make sure we don't have no let-downs like last year.  Last year we kind of have a similar situation when we won Game 6 in Sacramento and it was late on Friday and then Sunday we went against Dallas and then Game 2 we didn't do nothing.  We had no energy.  So we can't do that against Utah because it is very tough to play over there.   
 It would be nice to get this one tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  What do you recall from that Game 2 specifically against Dallas last year?   
 TONY PARKER:  We had no energy.  We basically gave them the game.  We lost by 20 or 25.  That's not good because we give them confidence and then they go back home and you know they play with a lot more confidence.   
 So the one -- the game that we really want is the one tomorrow to make sure we give them no hope, especially with a young team like that.  If we can get that lead, it is always good.   
  
  Q.  Tony, the pick-and-roll game was an asset.  How much was that an asset to you?   
 TONY PARKER:  Deron Williams found his way a lot, especially in the second half.  The first half we did a pretty good job.  The second half, I thought pick-and-roll defense was a little bit poor.  We can definitely improve on that because that's the focus in the game.  The picker was Boozer.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT