NBA FINALS: PISTONS v SPURS
June 23, 2005
Tony Parker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  The emotions, can you talk about what this means to you?
 
TONY PARKER:  Unbelievable.  I'm very lucky, 23 and winning two championships, and getting all that experience, all of those moments that I'm never going to forget, my life is just unbelievable.  
 
Q.  And what did this team -- could I just follow-up and say, what did this team show for you tonight? 
 
TONY PARKER:  A lot of character and they really, really want to win.  We work hard all season long to get that home-court advantage and we did our jobs tonight.  It was great and unbelievable, starting with Timmy.  Tim was huge, came out big in the third quarter when we were struggling and I'm just very happy to be on that team.  I'm enjoying myself here.  I've had a lot of fun all year long.  Pop was tough on me, but, you know, when you get the results, I'm just very happy.  
 
Q.  What was the emotion in the third quarter there when you guys were down and all of a sudden something just clicked and you guys went off on a run? 
 
TONY PARKER:  Just Timmy.  I think when we saw Timmy playing like that, it gave us extra energy.  And you follow your leader.  Timmy is the leader of our team, and he just carried us tonight and that's why he deserved the MVP because he carried us for the whole season. 
 
Q.  On top of that, what was it in the fourth quarter that allowed you to keep the momentum, as opposed to Game 6 where the wheels came off?
 
TONY PARKER:  The key is defense.  We played great defense tonight.  We talked a lot yesterday about keep making stops and make sure we keep a low-scoring game and we have a great chance to win that game.  We played great defense.  We had great rebounds; Robert with a great steal and Bruce with a block.  It was just great plays by everybody. 
 
Q.  Why are you wearing the French flag, first of all, and second of all, don't you think that Ginobili could have been a good co-MVP throughout this series with Duncan and how ironic is it that last game's weakness, the three-point shots became the strength in the final?
 
TONY PARKER:  That's a long question.  
 
Q.  Waiting a long time to ask one. 
 
TONY PARKER:  The first one, I'm happy to be representing France for all of the fans following me all year long, and I'm just happy for them and happy for all of my friends and my family.  Then second question, Manu played great.  He's just a great player for our team.  And we have a lot of great players on this team; you know, Nazr, Robert Horry, we have a lot of great players.  But I think Timmy is the leader on our team and he is just the best player on our team and Manu is right there.  He played a great series.  Timmy, I think that's where it starts with him. Three-point stats shots, we did a few mistakes in game 6, 28, which was too much, and I thought we did a good job tonight of being in attack mode and being aggressive and being inside for Timmy.  He didn't get a lot of touches the second half of Game 6 and we did a good job tonight.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT