NBA FINALS: PISTONS v SPURS
June 21, 2005
Tony Parker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Tony, what do they do that makes it so difficult at times to control the ball? 

TONY PARKER:  They put great pressure, pressure full-court, Lindsey and Richard, they did a good job to try to make us hurry and not getting in our sets.  It's kind of tough because you try to slow down and make sure we get everybody in place but sometimes I just have to create and make some stuff happen.  You just have to find that balance, because they make you hurry. 

Q.  You and Manu both had great success in the first half, triple penetration, getting to the rim, did they do anything specifically in the second half to take that away? 

TONY PARKER:  Not really.  But they just, I think in the second half, they collapsed better and they came in a little faster, the big guys came in a little bit quicker.  We just have to make adjustment and have confidence in our outside shooting in Bruce and Brent Barry.  It was just a great game and they showed a lot of heart and came back strong.  Now we just have to react. 

Q.  They hit as many three-pointers tonight as they had the entire series.  What were they doing on offense that allowed them to get those open looks? 

TONY PARKER:  That hurt us, the boards, they was getting offensive rebounds and kick it to the shooters, hitting a lot of threes, especially Chauncey.  He got some great looks in the first half and that hurt us.  There was too many threes and we have to stay in front of them and make them drivers.  Tonight, basically, we have to help the big guys, smalls and myself, we have to go to the boards and try to help them and they had too many offensive rebounds, and that ends up with a lot of threes, and especially the end of the basket, Tayshaun Prince got two huge offensive rebounds and scored twice.  So we just have to control it. 

Q.  Do you think that you guys lost tonight because of things that y'all did not do or things that the Pistons did, like making plays?  I felt like they just hit tough shots, not that y'all played bad halfcourt defense. 

TONY PARKER:  A little bit of both, a little bit of both.  We made a lot of mistakes down the stretch, but they hit some key baskets.  Rasheed Wallace's three was a big one and Tayshaun Prince's drive at the end, it was big.  So it was a little bit of both.  You have to give them credit.  They played great tonight. 

Q.  Unless my memory is incorrect, it's been a long time since there was a Game 7 in the NBA Finals.  Can you just talk about -- and I'm sure you wish there was not a Game 7 this year coming into, this but can you talk about what it means to be in a Game 7 with everything on the line? 

TONY PARKER:  It's just two great teams two, teams that played a great defense and they both want to win and we've played even.  We won twice at home, they won twice at home, we won on the road and they came here and took one.  It's just two teams who battle and are very physical out there and we'll see who wants it the most on Thursday. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT