NBA FINALS: PISTONS v SPURS
June 16, 2005
Tony Parker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Yesterday you kind of brought up that it was on your mind what happened in the Laker series last year, the 2-0 deficit, is it more on your guys' minds that they have tied it 2-2? 
 
TONY PARKER:  A little bit.  They played great tonight, they played great defense, they really pressured us and didn't let us do anything on offense.  We need to find a solution.  
 
Q.  Do you feel like this series has gotten more physical since it got to Detroit?
 
TONY PARKER:  Well, a little bit.  When you're going to play at home, you're going to play with a lot more energy, and they have got great fans and they play a lot better defense.  The pressure is more aggressive, and then the boards, you know, they really control the boards.  That's how they get all of those easy points, baskets and all of those layups and that gives them confidence for the shot. 
 
Q.  In a series losing by 30 points, does that have any effect for the next game on your confidence? 
 
TONY PARKER:  No, not really.  It's just one game.  We didn't play well at all.  We missed a lot of easy shots.  A lot of easy stuff, we missed layups, and then on the other end, you know, they played great.  You have to give a lot of credit, they just played a great game tonight, and we didn't let one game affect our confidence.  Game 5 is definitely going to be a must-win, and we definitely need to make some adjustments and try to compete.  
 
Q.  The number of turnovers you had again tonight as a team, is that something the Pistons are doing, or is that something that you guys are doing yourselves? 
 
TONY PARKER:  A little bit of both.  They pressuring us and so we try to maybe force it too much, especially in the first half, try to make some stuff happen, and when you play in a hurry, that's where turnovers happen.  We just have to take our time and be patient and get in our sets, even if they pressure us, we need to take our time and get the ball inside to Timmy, but at the same time, watch him and you just have to find some solution.  We just are struggling right now on offense. 
 
Q.  What message did Pop send you guys after the first half? 
 
TONY PARKER:  Well, I think he was just disappointed by the effort.  We came out very flat in the first half, just missed shots, a lot of turnovers, got beaten on the boards.  All of the stuff that we talked about after Game 3 happened again tonight.  So I think he just wants to see some reaction to guys and we definitely need to show up on Sunday.  We need to refocus, we have two days, three days to think about it and come back strong on Sunday.  
 
Q.  It seemed like as the game wore on, it was harder for you guys to get into the lane.  Can you talk about how difficult penetration was tonight and what is it like to get in the lane and have those guys just collapse on you. 
 
TONY PARKER:  They played great team defense.  Every time I penetrated or Manu penetrated, they did a good job to help the bigs, always watching us, make sure they were either blocking shots or just helping.  We just have to find solutions, try to do better pick-and-rolls and set picks and take our time on the offense and try to be patient.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT