NBA FINALS: PISTONS v SPURS
June 14, 2005
Tony Parker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Tony, what's the mood in the locker room?  Are you guys really disappointed after this loss, and do you think maybe you slowed it down a little bit too much?  Did your team slow the tempo down a little too much? 
 
TONY PARKER:  We are a little bit disappointed.  Obviously Detroit played great basketball today, tonight.  We just have to make sure we pay attention on details, too much turnovers, they played very aggressive and very physical tonight.  The end of the third quarter, the last minute, really killed us and a change of momentum.  
 
Q.  This was very similar to the first game, very tight for three quarters and then one team runs away.  Is it like very similar teams and the difference is just going to be those words, aggressiveness and effort and offensive rebounds? 
 
TONY PARKER:  Definitely, I'm going to repeat myself that it's just details.  When you get two teams that's going to play very good defense and they are going to be patient on the offense and they are going to move the ball, all of the little stuff, it becomes huge and those 18 turnovers that we had and the last minute of the third quarter, that run that they had, that 9-2, that really hurt us because that gave them confidence and we gave all those easy points to Detroit, the fast breaks and all of those dunks that they had, it just gave them more confidence to shoot the ball well.  
 
Q.  It seems like that your team didn't put much effort today, when they took a lead. 
 
TONY PARKER:  It was tough because they were pressuring the ball a lot full-court, and we tried to run a press offense and stuff like that, but they really played good defense.  They had a lot of steals and that gave them the momentum and we had a hard time to set up our offense.  
 
Q.  I'll ask you the same thing I asked Manu:  With all of the things you guys are trying to control tonight, did you expect Ben Wallace to come out and have the type of game that he had against you? 
 
TONY PARKER:  We need to control him a little bit more.  He definitely controlled the paint tonight.  He blocked shots.  He hurt us on the boards.  He had some key rebounds in the second half.  He just had a good game, very good game.  We need to control him a little bit better, and the guards, we need to do a better job to help the bigs get rebounds and try to control him, because he really hurt us.  
 
Q.  How much did his energy right off the bat really hurt you guys in terms of the way the game played out?
 
TONY PARKER:  It looks like it starts with him.  He sets the tone with the energy and playing with the crowd is extra energy, so we just have to make sure we don't let them get going with any kind of stuff, rebounds, blocks and make sure we pay attention to him, because he seems like he gets everybody going.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT