NBA FINALS: PISTONS v SPURS
June 11, 2005
Tony Parker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. One thing that's kind of lost Monday night was Chauncey Billups and you guys played such a great game but he still got his.  Talk about how he seems to really step up and show his best this time of year. 
 
TONY PARKER:  He had a very good game.  He hit some pretty tough baskets early in the game, got his confidence going.  He was the only one that was scoring for Detroit, so we just have to make sure we slow him down in Game 2 and try to be more aggressive against him and don't give him anything easy.  
 
Q.  The Spurs have never given up more than 90 points in an NBA Finals game.  Why do you think that is? 
 
TONY PARKER:  Well, I think it's just Pop's philosophy to make sure we get some stops and starts with defense, and everything starts with defense with him and we're very focused and concentrated, try to stop what they do best.  And so Detroit, it's slowing down Chauncey and Hamilton and we're going to try to do the same thing, but maybe they will play different, we'll see.  
 
Q.  Could you talk a little bit about your backcourt mate, Bruce Bowen, and his defense prowess, how important it is to your team?
 
TONY PARKER:  His defense is huge.  He gives us a lot of energy.  When you see a guy like that out there, it makes you want to play defense and pressure everybody.  He's just great, you know, to have a guy like that that brings it every night, even if he's off, we don't care, we're going to play the same D and try to slow the best players down.  And he did a great job in Game 1 against Hamilton. 
 
Q.  How about practice, how has he been in practice? 
 
TONY PARKER:  Same thing.  He plays the same way.  He only plays one way, it's aggressive defense and get fouled all the time.  
 
Q.  The last few days, the news about the labor negotiations has not seemed real good, are the --
 
TONY PARKER:  The what?  
 
Q.  The labor negotiations.  Are the players thinking about that at all?  And do you ever wonder why everybody can't just get along?
 
TONY PARKER:  No, just focus on the NBA Finals now.  I'm sure the players will focus on that, but we'll see after the series is finished. 
 
Q.  You guys ran against Phoenix and now you're slugging out against Detroit, can you talk about the versatility of this team and which you like the most. 
 
TONY PARKER:  It's defense, Pop always liked defense and it's always going to be our philosophy, it's just against Phoenix, we had some adjustments to make and try to play a little bit different and use the transition and fast break a little bit more because we knew that we had to score points to beat Phoenix and that's what we did.  Now we're playing against Detroit and they play very physical, aggressive, so same thing, that's what it is, the playoffs, it's adjustments and it's more our style of basketball, Detroit than Phoenix.  
 
Q.  Your coach has the fourth-best winning percentage all time of NBA coaches, do you think he gets enough credit?  And also, can you talk about your relationship, how that's evolved over the years? 
 
TONY PARKER:  We came along way with Pop our first two years, he was always screaming at me, like he was hard to take sometimes, getting all red and getting crazy.  Now, you know, we can see that we've got a great relationship and we understand each other.  I know what he wants on the court and that's why I think I feel more comfortable with the ball in my hands and I know that at the end of the day I'm going to do more good stuff than bad stuff.  We're going to make mistakes but he's pretty cool now.  He understands and he's pretty flexible, and you have to give him credit for that because he adapts to my style of playing and to Manu's style of playing because Manu was crazy when he arrived, and he and Pop had some hard times and he's just perfect with Manu and you can see the result, Manu is playing amazing.  That's definitely a lot of credit from Pop, giving us the freedom to play our game.  
 
Q.  You were talking about Bruce's defense a little bit earlier, you hear a lot of times after he plays against guys, they go, "well, all he has to do is play defense.  He doesn't have to expend any energy on offense."  Is that usually just a guy who is just -- can't give the guy credit for what he does?
 
TONY PARKER:  No, that's not true, because his offense, people have to be scared of something and I think they are scared about his 3-pointer in the corner.  So he's still I think dangerous in the offense because he's got that weapon, you know.  He's very consistent with that three-point shot and that's energy right there, because it's not an easy shot.  You know, defense, you use a lot, a lot of energy.  So I think people just don't like how he plays D, but I'm happy he's on my team because he's playing physical.  
 
Q.  Is it that guys don't like to give credit, like "I had an off-night.  He didn't do a lot.  He just missed shots"?
 
TONY PARKER:  Well, it's always going to be 50/50, when you're not shooting the ball well, you're always going to say you had a bad shooting night.  I think with Bruce, it's obvious that he slows you down a little bit.  
 
Q.  (Question in French.)
 
TONY PARKER:  I think they are going to come out very, very physical and very aggressive and maybe they are going to change a little bit how they play, maybe give the ball more to Rasheed and to Tayshaun Prince.  
 
Q.  (Question in French.) 
 
TONY PARKER:  I'm sure they are going to try to do something on Manu and we'll see what adjustments we have to make.  
 
Q.  Rephrasing again on Chauncey, can you be more specific about tomorrow night, things you have to do tomorrow night to kind of slow him down. 
 
TONY PARKER:  I think it will be like Steve Nash, maybe push him full court and just try to get him tight a little bit.  I thought especially in the first half, I didn't pressure him at all, so we watched film with Pop and he showed me stuff he wants me to do and I'm going to try to do it tomorrow, but it's not going to be an easy task.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT