NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SPURS v SUNS
May 29, 2005
Bruce Bowen
Tony Parker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Talk about being up 3-0 and going into the next game?
 
BRUCE BOWEN:  It is important that I think we stay focused, of course.  We understand we're going up against a team that's -- that had the best record in the NBA.  They are not going to lay down for anybody.  We have to go out and execute.  
 
Q.  How much of a difference can you see -- you guys have said it, Pop has said it, when you win big games and then maybe come out the next game, and don't have that fire and intensity.  It hasn't been the case, especially in this series?
 
BRUCE BOWEN:  I think we have had lessons to learn in that process.  We go up to Seattle up 2-0 and we have a game that slipped away, talking about Game 3.  We lose that game and now it's a series. 
 
Q.  Have you seen Timmy getting a little stronger every game?
 
TONY PARKER:  A little bit.  I thought the three days off really helped Timmy.  I thought he did quick moves.  He was really confident with himself, and when we see him doing strong moves, that means he's getting confident.  He's doing good so far. 
 
Q.  Tony, can you look at Robert Horry, here's a guy who has never been an All-Star and yet he has a chance to play for his 6th ring.  Explain that?
 
TONY PARKER:  He always played with great teams.  He played with Houston.  Hakim Olajuwon played with the Lakers.  They were another great team.  I think he's just a great role player.  He knows his role.  He's not going to do extra stuff.  He's just doing the right thing every time at the right moment with big shots, big rebounds and great plays on defense and stuff like that.  
 
Q.  Pop said that he thinks that Tim (Duncan) is smarter on the court when Robert (Horry) is on the floor.  Do you see that --
 
TONY PARKER:  I think Robert is used to playing like with big guys who are really, really good, like Olajuwon and Shaquille O'Neal.  So he knows when to pass the ball to Timmy, and I think Timmy feels more comfortable because he knows he's going to get the ball and Robert is a great passer.  And Timmy is going to get a lot of space because people have to respect Robert's 3.  So they give him a lot of space to do whatever he wants to do. 
 
Q.  Surprised at how often Tim (Duncan) is unable to get posted so deep?
 
TONY PARKER:  No, not at all.  It was a big focus for us to make sure Timmy gets some great feel, you know, especially in transition.  We told Timmy if you do that, we're going to try to look for you because of the layup.  I thought Timmy did a great job, the work in trying to get great position. 
 
Q.  Talking about Seattle compared to the Suns?
 
TONY PARKER:  It's different, but I think overall Seattle maybe was a little bit more physical.  Phoenix plays a little bit different, they want to play fast and get on your transition, and so a little bit different.  I think Timmy can get better position maybe against them. 
 
Q.  How about yourself?  You got banged around pretty good when you got inside against Seattle.  Doesn't seem like you have been hit as often in this series?
 
TONY PARKER:  I think the same thing, different philosophies.  Seattle wanted to hit us hard, every time they penetrated me and Manu (Ginobili).  Denver same thing.  Maybe Phoenix is using another strategy.  I can't -- they are just different. 
 
Q.  Do you prefer it this way than big hitting --
 
TONY PARKER:  I don't mind.  I really don't care.  NBA you play physical, especially in the playoffs, so I am used to being hit, stuff like that.  So I really don't care. 
 
Q.  How important is it for you guys when you are up, trying to stay aggressive, that balance, how do you --
 
TONY PARKER:  Just being on the same page as Pop and make sure I control the tempo and make sure we get some opportunities in the offense and transition.  If it gets too crazy, we slow it down and try to get it inside to Timmy.  Just have to make sure we don't get too many turnovers or too many bad shots. 
 
Q.  You guys have been doing a good job of keeping your focus in this series.  Now you got an opportunity -- I know it is probably the toughest game to win, the closeout game --
 
TONY PARKER:  I think that's why we needed to approach that game like Game 3.  It's a very, very big game for us.  Closeout game is always the hardest, especially when you are up 3-0.  That's why we have to be even more focused and make sure we know the game plan and make sure that Phoenix is going to play like they have got nothing to lose and we have to make sure we're ready and match their energy. 
 
Q.  Off of that tempo, you being a pointguard, you are obviously going to take the brunt of it, but how important has it been for you and Manu (Ginobili), especially when he takes that opening tip and goes in, to really get off to that fast start, you have done it the entire series?
 
TONY PARKER:  I think it's going to be huge.  I think if we can have a good start it always helps.  Same thing I go back to, to give any hope to Phoenix, we have to make sure we jump at them and make sure we take control from the beginning. 
 
Q.  How much has this team grown in terms of you guys have said it, Pop would say it, you win a couple of games, you maybe get a little too much confidence and drop a game you shouldn't drop.  That hasn't happened especially in this series. 
 
TONY PARKER:  I think we're getting more mature as a team and a lot more experience.  I think we learned from our mistakes a couple of years ago, in the playoffs last year against the Lakers and two years ago.  And I think it's just a learning process and I think we're at the point that the team understands that each game is important.  And tomorrow's game is going to be huge and we definitely need to come with the focus because it's always hard to close out a team. 
 
Q.  Do you think you are showing the fact that you guys have more experience at this stage of the playoffs or do you think you are showing -- is it your defense, both of those things, do you guys have an edge --
 
TONY PARKER:  A little bit of both.  We're showing a little bit of our experience and our defense really helped us last game.  I thought that was the first time we really like played defense and tried to stop them last game.  So if we can do the same thing tomorrow, it will be great. 
 
Q.  Phoenix has gotten so far this year off being just this fun offensive running team and saying, well, we'll play defense when we get around to it, that kind of thing.  Is it comforting to know that defense is still kind of the most important thing at this stage of the playoffs?
 
TONY PARKER:  I think the history of the NBA shows that, that defense is really important.  That's why Pop always is hard on us to play defense and make sure we get stops, because that's who we are.  We're a defensive club, and I thought yesterday we did a great job doing that. 
 
Q.  Suns are still learning, you think, as a team?
 
TONY PARKER:  They are a greet team.  They have got a great offense and they are just playing a different philosophy, so you have to respect that.  They got the best record and they play the whole season like that.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT