NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SPURS v SUNS
May 28, 2005
Tony Parker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Talk about how you guys moved the ball tonight?  You whipped it around a lot making the extra pass?

TONY PARKER:  I thought we did a great job doing that tonight, moving the ball, being very unselfish.  That was one of the main focuses tonight, to make sure we don't take quick shots, don't fall on the Phoenix game.  Make sure we play our game.  I thought we executed pretty good tonight.

Q.  Coach came in and he said you guys had them rattled or maybe they rattle themselves how?

TONY PARKER:  Pop kept saying we need to play defense, we need to make stops.  In the first quarter it was a high scoring game, thought it was like 38 to 30 or something like that.  Second quarter we finally got some stops and finally got in transition go get some easy basket for Timmy (Duncan).  I thought that was key.  Played pretty good defense, don't give them any easy looks.  We did a good job in transition tonight.  Mistake in the first quarter gave them a couple of threes.  Like four threes.  Second quarter we didn't give them those shots.

Q.  A lot of talk about how Joe Johnson was coming back he was going to play you.  Do you attack him any different than you do Nash?

TONY PARKER:  No, I am going to attack the same way.  Have to be in attack mode and make sure I stay involved on the offense.  If it's Steve or Joe doesn't matter, I have to make sure I don't rush anything, but keep being in attack mode.

Q.  Late in the game you missed a shot at one end I think -- Pop came over had a few words put his arm around you what did he tell you?

TONY PARKER:  Just stay in the game.  I don't like to miss tear drops, that's why.  He told me keep shooting and stay in the game. 

Q.  You talked about you guys playing your game but in effect you are also playing a little bit of their game.  The fact that everybody talked about them being so fast, has that made you and Manu maybe a little bit more --

TONY PARKER:  A little bit, when you play against Phoenix, they are shooting so quick you are going to take some opportunities to get some easy stuff in transition and everybody is running, Manu (Ginobili), Brent (Barry), Robert (Horry) is doing a great job, Timmy (Duncan) even is running, you just have to make sure if you get like two, three bad shots or two, three turnovers in a row that you slow it down a little bit you get inside for Timmy.  Any time we can push it I will.  I love to push the ball.  I just have to make sure that me and Pop are on the same page and we don't go too crazy.

Q.  You have to be on Pop's Page?

TONY PARKER:  (Laughs).

Q.  Game 4 you try and close this thing out.  Talk a little bit about how what has to happen for you guys to close the series out?

TONY PARKER:  I think we need to do the same thing that we did tonight, same focus, I thought tonight that was the main thing to be focused make sure we are not being satisfied, Phoenix is going to play like they got nothing to lose.  We have to make sure we match their energy and be ready to go.  I think it's just focus now and just not be satisfied with ourselves.

Q.  You knew they were going to throw Joe Johnson at you tonight.  They were thinking that might be a factor.  Did you make a conscious effort of attacking him?

TONY PARKER:  Definitely I wanted to make sure that it's not because they put Joe on me that I am going to slow down.  That's why I attack him especially early in the first quarter I wanted to make sure to be aggressive and be in the game, and I just want to make sure I played the same way.

Q.  Phoenix hasn't done quite the job that Seattle and Denver did.  Do you expect that bubble to burst?

TONY PARKER:  I don't know.  We're going to try to play the same way.  If they change their defense or make adjustments it's going to be our turn to make adjustments.  But so far we have been penetrating, we're going to try to do the same thing, make sure we don't take bad shots, I think we'll be all right. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT