NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SPURS v SUNS
May 22, 2005
Tony Parker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Do you think it threw them off a little bit the way you guys started with the game with the matchups?

TONY PARKER:  Maybe a little bit.  I don't think so, you know, I don't think it matters.  They are going to play fast.  They are going to do whatever they want.  I don't think it changed -- it changed something because they are still going to play pick and rolls.  I don't think Quentin is a big part of the offense, so I don't think it changed something in the offense. 

Q.  When you guys got down by eight or nine were you pretty confident that because of the way they played defense you would be able to --

TONY PARKER:  Definitely.  We can't panic.  Phoenix are going to make runs.  They are the best team in offense so they are going to score a lot of points.  We can't panic.  We know on the other end we can score too.  We can hurt them inside.  Timmy played great tonight and when they start double-teaming him, Brent came out huge and makes some threes, and by the end of the game we made our run.  We picked threes and that's how we got the game. 

Q.  Why were you so successful in the third quarter?

TONY PARKER:  I think because Timmy was doing a great job in the third quarter, by the fourth quarter they were double-teaming him, it allows me to be open up.  We had a lot of wide open shots.  When they double team, we have got a lot of stuff for the guards.

Q.  How important is it for you to go back at Steve Nash?

TONY PARKER:  He's going to play a lot of minutes.  Get him tired.  All the offense goes through him, so, over the course of the series we need to get him tired.  He played a lot of minutes in the playoffs, so I need to go back at him and be aggressive, and attack him and because I know he's going to attack me. 

Q.  Talk about Brent Barry's performance tonight?

TONY PARKER:  He came up huge.  Two days ago after we won against Seattle he was a little bit down and I talked to him.  I told him it's a little bit like Robert last year when he tried so hard to beat the Lakers and I thought Brent did the same thing, he tried too hard.  He was not himself.  And I told him stay with us, keep shooting you are going to have a huge series against Phoenix because they are going to score a lot of points so we're going to need our bench.  First game tonight he came out big.  Big these, and I am very happy for him because he has been struggling for the whole season.  He played great tonight.  I hope he's going to keep it going because we need him.

Q.  Were you worried how Tim Duncan would hold up, up and down game playing --

TONY PARKER:  A little bit.  Beginning of the game a little bit.  I saw him out there he was confident with his move.  Made some quick moves.  Attacking the basket I was not worried anymore.  We have to have confidence in him.  He knows his body.

Q.  Looked like at the end he was out of gas?

TONY PARKER:  It was not him.  Robert is getting old.  It was Robert.  He needed a timeout (laughs.)  I was asking why, Robert, you know (laughs) -- that was funny. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT