NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 12, 2014
Tony Parker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 San Antonio Spurs - 107
  Miami Heat - 86 
   
 Q.   Chris Bosh said in the locker room that the Spurs are playing beautiful basketball.   Do you feel that when you're out there during the flow of the game?   
TONY PARKER:   I just think we're playing Spurs basketball.   We're just moving the ball, and we're just playing the way we've been playing all season.   We'd like to do a "good to great," the extra pass, and we preach that, and right now we're clicking.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about Patty's performance tonight, giving you guys a big lift all season, and he did it again in a big spot tonight?  
TONY PARKER:   Yeah, Patty's feeding off of everybody.   He's by himself in the corners and he's just making shots, making plays, playing great defense, and just giving us a great boost.  
   
 Q.   He even guarded LeBron a couple times.   
TONY PARKER:   Yeah, just trying to be a pest, and he did a good job at it.  
   
 Q.   Two great teams.   Are you more surprised at the ease that you've been able to score on them, or are you more surprised at the way your defense has been able to shut them down and not breaking a hundred points?   
TONY PARKER:   I think our defense has been great so far.   We're just trying to communicate.   Everybody's on the same page, and hopefully we can do it for one more game.  
   
 Q.   Given your long relationship with Boris, how satisfying is it for you to watch him go from someone who was cut mid‑season by Charlotte to somebody who is playing such a key role now?   
TONY PARKER:   I'm just very happy for him.   Very proud of him.   He's playing great basketball.   I've been knowing him for so long.   It's almost like a dream right now just playing with him for the NBA Championship.   Just watching him out there and just showing everybody what he can do, I've been seeing that every summer because I played with him in the national team, and he's always been a great player with us.   
I just think the Bobcats were not the right fit for him because he's the ultimate team player and needs a system and stuff like that.   He's a perfect fit for us.  
   
 Q.   I know you guys always, or Tim said something, but for the most part you say you've moved on.   But does Game 6 of last year fuel you guys in any way?   
TONY PARKER:   I just think the loss was tough.   Every time you go to the NBA Finals and you don't win, it's tough.   It was a great motivation, but at the same time, each year it's different.   That's why since the beginning of those Finals I've said it's a rematch, because you know we have a lot of respect for Miami.   They're the two‑time champs, they're a great team, and there is still one more game.   We have to win one more game.   
So we just have to stay focused, and we'll be ready.   We just have to think about last year.   We don't need more motivation than that.  
   
 Q.   You were in a little easier position against Cleveland a couple years ago.   What is it like to shut it down when you have a nice lead in the series?   
TONY PARKER:   It's always tough when you have a big lead in the NBA.   I'm kind of surprised the way we've been holding those leads because it's really tough.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT