ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 1, 2011
David Probyn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. David, I'd like you to respond, if you will, about Bubba Watson's comments of earlier today, he was complaining about the infrastructure, basically saying there's a lot of phones out there, there's a lot of cameras out there, there's no marshaling, there's no ropes. Tell us what you think. 
 DAVID PROBYN: Well, that is not entirely true. Obviously we've got fully roped fairways. We've got marshals on every hole. It's absolutely true that over the years we have moved things a long way here. There's an education process in every country we come to in terms of trying to make people understand properly the way to behave. We have had an incredible upturn in the number of people coming to see The Open de France over the last four or five years, which is fantastic. That's the main thing I'd like to focus on.
 We, of course, are disappointed that Bubba has had what's seemingly an unpleasant experience for him. I have to say it's the only comment I've had on it this week. We are of course going to take a look at it. We are going to have a considerable review. We continue to review everything we do out here week-in and week-out, and of course year-in and year-out with The Open de France. 
 We can have a look at there's more that we can do. I think right now, as I say, to me, the dedication of the marshaling team here over the last four or five years, we have got a lot of the clubs in France getting involved now in the way that the spectators are starting to get involved in The Open de France which is great thing, and they are out there much more than they have ever been, and they are much more committed and they are doing it much more professionally. Of course we'll continue to look. 
 For now, I'm disappointed. It's a shame Bubba has felt that way. But we hope that he'll take it a little bit in his time after this and have a look at it again. I hope, of course, that he's going to be coming back in the future where he'll always be very welcome.

 Q. He's claiming it's very different to the PGA TOUR. It doesn't seem so to me. You've spent time there, as well. Does it seem that this is completely different to a PGA TOUR event, that much more manic as he was suggesting? 
 DAVID PROBYN: No, I don't believe so. There's an all-inclusive policy on the PGA TOUR this year with regard to mobile phones, and they have this their own issues with that with some of their players. 
 We are pretty much right now going through the process of using very much the same policy going forwards. And for us, that's about, while, okay, we are embracing the mobile phone at the golf tournament, it's kind of reality wherever you go now. 
 So having embraced it, we are going to be looking at ways that we can educate people to use it more appropriate on the golf course. Whereas up until now, we have had that view of, well, mobile phones are banned, so you can't really educate people on how to use them on the golf course. Well, having embraced them, we can now say, look, this is the way you should behave, this is where you can use them, this is where you can't use them. That, again, it's now a chance for a much better education process on that side. I personally believe we'll see a lot of improvement in that Tour-wide in that area which I'm looking forward to. But as for this week, as I say, we'll continue to look, but we're pretty happy where we stand today.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT