ROSE BOWL GAME: OHIO STATE VS WASHINGTON
December 29, 2018
J.K. Dobbins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So, obviously, going up against a talented Washington defense.  They've had a fair amount of success against the run and against the pass this year.  When you look at the tape, what is it like about this defense that makes it so tough?
J.K. DOBBINS: Pretty disciplined.  D-line is big.  They're going to be hard to move.  Then they have an All-American linebacker in No. 25.  He floats the ball.  He's a very good player.  On the back end, they have No. 7, he's a pretty good player as well.  He's an All-American.  It will be fun to go against them.  It will be a great challenge because they're a great defense.  They've got great corners as well.
Q. In terms of what you guys need to do to sort of get the edge on them?
J.K. DOBBINS: Just go at them.  Don't shy away from them, you know.  Just because they're good, we don't want to shy away from them.
Q. I saw you guys went to Disneyland this week, the Beef Bowl.  What has this experience been like for you?
J.K. DOBBINS: It's been a great experience.  It's very fun.  It's a great atmosphere.
Q. Obviously, it's Coach Meyer's last game.  What has it been like being able to play for him?
J.K. DOBBINS: It's an honor because he's a legend.  He helped me grow as a man and as a football player.
Q. What kind of challenges do you think that Washington defense presents to you?
J.K. DOBBINS: They have a big defensive line.  It's going to be hard to move them.  They have a really good linebacker in 25, and the secondary, No. 7 is great as well.  I feel like it will be a great challenge for us, but it will be fun.
Q. What do you think the key is going to be for the offense?
J.K. DOBBINS: Just be ourselves and go at them.
Q. What are you most looking forward to in the Rose Bowl?
J.K. DOBBINS: Just getting to the stadium and seeing how it is because watching it as a little kid, it's like a dream come true.
Q. Watching film, how was that kind of study, watching tape?  What was your process?
J.K. DOBBINS: I heard they were a really good defense, and I wanted to see, and they are.  They've got a good defense.  The defensive line is big.  It's going to be hard to move them.  And then you've got the linebacker, No. 25, is pretty great and then No. 7 as well.  It will be fun.  It will be a challenge.
Q. Are there any teams in your conference that kind of remind you of Washington?
J.K. DOBBINS: No, not really.
Q. How do you find yourself staying focused?  There's lots of stuff going on this week.  Do you find yourself kind of staying focused?
J.K. DOBBINS: Well, Coach Meyer has been preaching all week that we're here to win a Rose Bowl.  I'm a pretty focused person, so I feel like it's not really a problem even though there's a lot going on around here.  I think it's pretty easy to stay focused.
Q. I'm just curious what it is you think about Coach Meyer.  There are very few coaches that have ever won in conferences, like eight football games.  What is it about him that has allowed him to get to that level?
J.K. DOBBINS: You know, he's a great guy.  He always -- he's working on -- he's always working.  The coach is working very hard, and just everyone always working.  Put in late hours, and he's a great guy.  So I think that's what helps him.  I think he'll -- whatever he does next, he'll be great at that too because he's just that person.  He's driven, and like I say, he's a great person.
Q. There's a lot of coaches that work hard, though.  Is there something about how he sees the game or how he approaches it?
J.K. DOBBINS: I think he sees the game a little different.  He has a little edge about him.  So he's a winner, that as well.  A lot of coaches can work hard, but he has that edge of being a winner.  I feel like that's what helps him out.
Q. I don't know.  I feel like the word edge is brought up a lot in college football, in terms of you can't put your finger on it.  How do you see that?  As he's watching film, when you're in practice?  Like what is it about him that just separates him?  Currently, there's two coaches in this country that are at that level.
J.K. DOBBINS: If I lived with him, I could probably give you a better answer, but just watching him, just the way he works.  It's just like it's different.  I feel like it's different.  I visited a lot of colleges when I was in high school, and I just feel like it's different.
Q. J.K., when guys go through practice right now and you guys know that this will be the last time for Urban, do you notice any change in him?  Is he treating this game differently than any of the last two years that you've been around him?
J.K. DOBBINS: No.  Honestly, you kind of forget when you're practicing that he's leaving because he's still the same guy.  We don't really see a change.  We're going to try to send him out with a bang.
Q. I'm sure you've been asked about that a lot.  How important is that?  How much conversation is there amongst you guys about making sure he gets one more win?
J.K. DOBBINS: There's a lot of conversation about us getting him this last win because we know it will be a special one for him.  He's never coached in the Rose Bowl.  So we want to get him that win and send him out well.
Q. Are you pretty surprised that Mike already declared?  You saw this coming for a while, right?
J.K. DOBBINS: No, I didn't.
Q. You didn't?
J.K. DOBBINS: I didn't.  I never know what's going on with him, so I didn't know.
Q. How did you think that dynamic worked for you two this year in the backfield?  Nobody asked you a lot about it.  You obviously want as many carries as possible, but how do you think that worked between you two?
J.K. DOBBINS: Well, it helped keep us fresh -- or fresher, you know.  It was a great bond, and we made some great memories.  So I think it was a great time this year.
Q. Is there a part of you that is -- I don't want to make it sound like you're thrilled he's leaving, but that you're going to be the primary guy next year now, right?  There has to be part of you that wants that challenge and wants that role.
J.K. DOBBINS: Of course, but hopefully, Mike can go to the NFL and be successful.  That's what it was this year.  I hope he was successful all year.  I'm not a selfish guy.  He's a great guy.  So I just want to see him be successful.
Q. For you guys that have been on the offensive side, you know Ryan Day, you know what he can bring to you.  Why was he the right pick to take over for Urban?
J.K. DOBBINS: He's a winner, and he's a great guy.  He bonds with us like -- you know, he's just -- he has a great bond with us.  I think that works well for us, and it will help us play better.
Q. He's in the quarterback room.  How much time did you spend around him the last two years?
J.K. DOBBINS: Well, I used to go to meetings with him.  So I spent a lot of time with him.
Q. Guys have described like the way he coaches, that he relates well.  Is it just because he -- what is it about him that allows you guys to relate a little bit better to him if that's the case?
J.K. DOBBINS: I guess he just knows.  I can't really explain it that good.  I think he just knows how to relate to us.
Q. You've talked about -- I know the College Playoffs is the ultimate goal these days.  When I was growing up watching Ohio State, my ultimate goal was the Rose Bowl.  Talk about how you guys have balanced out maybe the disappointment not making the playoffs, but the opportunity to play in the Rose Bowl.
J.K. DOBBINS: Yeah, it was disappointing to not make the playoffs, but when they told us we were going to the Rose Bowl, it's kind of like, wow, I would love to play in that too.  So it really wasn't a disappointing thing, but it was.  It's great to be here.
Q. How has this week been in California getting ready for the game, the practices, and other activities?
J.K. DOBBINS: It's been great.  It's been great.  Went to Disneyland.  We did a few other things.  So I feel like it's been a great experience, and I love it here.
Q. And then just the actual game prep as you guys go through your practices, what's the mood on the team been?
J.K. DOBBINS: Let's go win the game.  That's been the mood all week.  It's not going to change.
Q. What does Coach Day bring as the new head coach?
J.K. DOBBINS: What does he bring?  Energy.  He's a winner, and he bonds with us.  So the brotherhood that we have, I feel like it will make it a little stronger.
Q. Has he been the same guy since the announcement that he'll be full-time head coach, or is there any difference at all?
J.K. DOBBINS: No, there's no difference.  He's the same guy.  I feel like he's going to stay that way when he's fully in charge next year.  So I think it will be great.
Q. Is that kind of like -- is that good for you guys to see, like it's not changing anything?
J.K. DOBBINS: I think so.  I'm speaking for myself, but I don't know, but I think everyone's thinking the same way I am.  It's pretty great to see him not changing.
Q. What do you see in this Washington defense?
J.K. DOBBINS: The linebacker, he's pretty great.  He flows, and the defensive line isn't -- they're good.  So it will be fun.  And then their secondary is good as well.  So it will be a challenge all around.
Q. For sure.  What is it about that linebacker that stands out to you?
J.K. DOBBINS: Just high motor.  He's not going to stop playing.
Q. What's been your favorite part about this week?
J.K. DOBBINS: Just getting to L.A.  It's a great looking place.
Q. For sure.  Did you have a good time at Lawry's?
J.K. DOBBINS: I did.  It was good food.
Q. Heavy meal, right?
J.K. DOBBINS: Yeah.
Q. So I got to ask, when did you realize how intense the fan base in Ohio State is?  Being from Texas, we know how Texas likes football.  Did you think the psychotic level of fan base existed elsewhere, like in different states?
J.K. DOBBINS: I knew it was a great fan base, and it was pretty crazy, but I think I found that out when I played in my first spring ball game.  It was just like, wow, this is a great fan base.  Very thick.
Q. 80,000 people watching.  What's been your favorite moment up to this point, would you say, if you had one?
J.K. DOBBINS: I don't know.  There's a lot of great moments, like when we came back to win, that winning drive was crazy against Penn State.  So that was a great one.  Winning the championship again, that's a great memory as well.  And going back to Texas and playing at a Texas school, since I'm from Texas, that's a pretty great memory too.  There's a lot of them.  I don't really have a favorite right now.
Q. So in that Penn State environment, because when you're in Ohio State, it's a happy environment, like they don't like you.  You just shut it down, right?  Isn't that true?  You guys just have it -- people always ask you this, like reporters, like how can you understand what's going on out there?  You guys are able to shut it all out, right?
J.K. DOBBINS: Yeah.  That has a lot to do with Coach Meyer.  He puts us in situations in practice that can help us as much as he can with atmosphere.  The Penn State, that stadium was like by far the best atmosphere I've been in for an away game with a white-out and all that.  It was pretty fun.  It was great, and I'm glad our team could tune everything out and focus.
Q. J.K., when I ask people about Urban Meyer, the first thing that comes to their mind is his winning and stuff.  Past that, what has made him different or special in your mind?
J.K. DOBBINS: He has like the greatest work ethic, and he's a great guy.  He's always trying to figure out ways and get an edge on someone.  He helped me grow as a man and as a football player, so he has a lot of respect from me.
Q. You showed up at Ohio State intending to be a running back and stuff.  Now you're also in these Real Life Wednesday programs, job fair day where you're required to get interviews and things like that.  How different was that from what you expected playing for Urban Meyer?
J.K. DOBBINS: I mean, I expected it because during the recruiting trail, he was explaining to me a little bit about it.  To actually do it, though, it was great.  Actually got the internship with the Cavs this summer and a restaurant in downtown Columbus called Copia.  It's a pretty great thing.  I feel like it opens up a lot of opportunities for us.
Q. But every coach doesn't necessarily do those kinds of things.  What does that tell you?  Urban's big plan is eventually for you to leave Ohio State with a job offer in hand and not necessarily the NFL.  How special, I guess, does that make him in your mind?
J.K. DOBBINS: That's the edge I was talking about, him trying to get the upper edge.  If you don't want to come to Ohio State, then you don't have the opportunity to have a life after football.  I mean, you will, but the chances are greater at Ohio State, I feel like.  So that would be one of the greatest things I've ever seen.  I'm glad he does that.
Q. Was getting to 1,000 yards this year much more exhausting than getting to 1,400 last year?
J.K. DOBBINS: Yeah, it was, I must say.  But it's great that I could do that again, and it's a great feeling.  Hopefully next year, I can do the same.
Q. Coach Alford talked about you the other day and said there was a moment in the season where it seemed like you kind of lost your way a little bit, plant that foot and go kind of thing, whatever you want to call it.  Do you feel like you've got that back, especially Maryland game and on?
J.K. DOBBINS: Yeah.  I think I did lose a little bit of mojo, like during the middle of the season because, I mean, we weren't really -- you know?
Q. Yes.  The holes were hard to find?
J.K. DOBBINS: No, no, I don't think it was that, but it was just we weren't getting it going.  So when we got it going, I got my mojo back, and I feel like I got the same burst that I had last year.
Q. What have you seen this week in practice?  Obviously, Wyatt Davis has been a right guard for two games since Demetrius got hurt, and Munford's banged up and Josh Alabi's at left tackle.  But what you noticed about the offensive line during practice?  Is it kind of scrapping to find its mojo?  What's your sense of it?
J.K. DOBBINS: No, I feel like it's picking up where it left off from the last game, great.  Wyatt Davis is a great offensive lineman.  We've got guys like Josh Myers waiting to get in there.  He's great.  So whoever gets in there, they're going to do a good job.
Q. How about Alabi at left tackle?  What have you been seeing?
J.K. DOBBINS: I think it was the Maryland game he came in?  He's the same.  He's good.  He's very good.  Like I said, whoever gets in that game is going to do a great job.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT