TMS MONTE CARLO
April 18, 2001
Jerome Golmard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  First question, please. 


Q.  How did you feel today stepping on to the court after your long match of the day before yesterday?

JEROME GOLMARD: I didn't practice a lot, so I didn't know how I was going to be.  But I believe it was the attitude which would be determining, rather than the physical state. I lost a lot of energy against Arnaud.  Therefore, it was a bit difficult.  I was lucky to start well in the match by breaking him.  I believe it's thanks to a good state of mind, a good attitude, that I managed to win that set and that match.  It was more than physically or game-wise. 


Q.  At one stage he shot at you, you were both hitting very hard. 

JEROME GOLMARD: Yes, he was hitting especially hard.  He always hits a lot harder than I do.  Once again, I played well tactically.  I mixed it up with a soft shot on his backhand and big forehands on his own forehand to force him to run all over the court and to make him come to the net from time to time. I served well.  I was relaxed.  I had some free points which were good for me today. 


Q.  You were never tense, even when you had a break against you in the second set?

JEROME GOLMARD: I was more tense when I came back in the second set.  When I broke him back at 4-all, I told myself,  "Maybe I'm going to win the second set," because until 4-3 he was breaking me.  After, the games went on one after the other in his favor without too much of a match.  He was playing aces, he was serving winners, I was less concentrated.  The fact that I came back at 4-all made me a bit tense, and I thought it would be better to try to win in two sets. I started off very well in the tiebreaker. 


Q.  During the two matchpoints that you had before the tiebreaker, he played well. 

JEROME GOLMARD: For the first matchpoint I played a second serve, and I wanted to attack it.  I tried to make a return volley and, in fact, I didn't go up to the net.  So suddenly, he had an easy shot to make.  He went up to the net.  I wanted to make him volley a little bit, and the ball went out at least for one meter along the side.  For the second matchpoint, it was different.  But on the first serve, I could have done better.  I must do better. 


Q.  Anyway, it's a very good win.  You must be pleased?

JEROME GOLMARD: Yes.  I am almost more pleased today than I was when I won against Arnaud because it was a first round.  But today, the situation of my back was good.  It's great to have played a three-setter, a very difficult one, and then to serve so well today.  It didn't hurt almost today.  For me, beyond the victory, it's mainly that factor which makes me pleased tonight. 


Q.  You didn't go to the physio at all?

JEROME GOLMARD: No. 


Q.  Super.  Therefore, coming out on the court you just felt healthily tired, a bit stiff maybe?

JEROME GOLMARD: I'm okay.  I feel good.  I will have a good massage right afterwards, and tomorrow it should be all right. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT