VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 16, 2019
Cam Johnson
Allan George
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Kentucky - 38, Vanderbilt - 14
Q. That's the third time you guys have scored on defense this season. Do you see the potential in the defense when plays like that happen?
ALLAN GEORGE: I think I see the potential in the defense one more than just the plays that we score on because we rip at the ball and pull at the ball and we force turnovers and we try to at least in about every single game that we play, so the mentality is not changing, just on those plays I feel like.
Q. Cam, you guys had a good drive there at the double pass by you, most of these games you guys are scoring early, first 15, 20 plays, good drive and then it peters off after that. What is going on there after the first couple great drives?
CAM JOHNSON: We have got to execute better. I always heard that it's the first, first down is the most important on offense and I know you see a couple times we were going three and out and then you see when we get that first, first down we're moving the ball, so I think it's just execution early in the drive and making sure that we get the drive going.
Q. You guys gave up over eight yards per play on defense towed do you think that's attribute more to the line of scrimmage other missed tackles what do you think is going on?
ALLAN GEORGE: I think overall across the board from the front end to back end we just got to tackle more and our coaches, they prepared us for it, since training camp, it's just since the summer they have been beating in our heads that tackling is we got to wrap the guy up and drive our feet, so we just didn't execute that today and I think that's why those, that statistic is what it is.
Q. Coach seems to think that you guys had potential on defense beyond this season. I don't even know if you are starting a senior at this point, but do you see what he sees in the future of the defense?
ALLAN GEORGE: I do and I feel, I spoke to this earlier in the season, after one of our practices, that we're a really young team and, but I don't really see that youngness or our youth as something that's detrimental or that can hurt us, I think it will help us in the future and that's what we're looking for, looking towards to now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT