NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: FLYERS v LIGHTNING
May 15, 2004
Dan Boyle
Fredrik Modin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Dan, do you think you guys got out physical today and if so, how do you combat that for Game 5? 
 DAN BOYLE:  Not necessarily.  Obviously I they we feel asleep there for about five minutes, we had a tough five minutes in the first.  For us, obviously I think we are a little bit of a smaller team back there but we have to get better positioning defensive positioning.  We certainly did that in Game 3, and sometimes tonight I thought we were caught on the wrong side of the puck. 
 Q.  Talk about the presence of Primeau today, he sort of at times imposed his will on this game? 
 FREDRIK MODIN:  He's a good player.  He plays hard every night.  It's just the way he's been playing in the series.  We're aware of that, and we're trying to stop him. 
 Q.  Could you talk about your first goal after the Pavel, you were right there, and at that point, did you think, boy, whoever scores first is in the driver's seat for this game? 
 FREDRIK MODIN:  Obviously, you want to score first.  That goal, it's big for us, to take the lead. 
 But, you know, they came back hard.  I thought we were a little sloppy there at times and they took advantage of it.  That turned the game around. 
 Q.  Their short-handed goal, it's Primeau, but you're on the power play looking to tie the game and all of a sudden it's down two, did that take the wind out of your sails for a while? 
 DAN BOYLE:  Yeah, that's a huge goal for them.  Obviously, we fought hard to the end.  We obviously missed some chances, Marty on breakaway missed some chances and it definitely could have gone the other way.  At the time being, you never want to  -- those are tough ones to give up.  It was a tough bounce.  I think he just kind of fumbled it there, two-on-one, and I was the guy back there, and I just figured I'll let him, I'll give him a shot.  He made a pretty incredible shot to beat Khabibulin there.  There wasn't much room but he definitely found the room that was given to him there. 
 Q.  You talk about getting a little sloppy, was there a reason for that, was it what they were doing or were you trying to do too much? 
 FREDRIK MODIN:  No.  I mean, you go through a game, it's tough to be sharp throughout 60 minutes. 
 I think today we weren't as sharp as we were in the previous game, at times.  They took advantage of it.  I think their first goal, I think it started out like a one-on-three or a two-on-three, going through the neutral zone.  Somehow, they ended up getting the scoring chance off it. 
 You know, that's the stuff, it happens.  Just a matter of us battling back. 
 Q.  Today's loss might have been tough, but do you see that in hindsight with these two games, you accomplished what you needed to do, at least re-gaining home ice? 
 DAN BOYLE:  Well, we are right back to where we started.  We knew it wasn't going to be a quick series.  I think both teams got something out of these first four games, obviously knowing maybe what works against the other team.  So, you know, we know what we have to do and I'm sure that they probably think they know what they have to do. So, it's just a matter of getting it done, and then 60 minutes, obviously, if games go overtime, more obviously.  But we were not sharp for 60 minutes tonight and it cost us the game tonight. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT