U.S. TEAM OLYMPIC TRIALS: SWIMMING
June 25, 2012
Elizabeth Beisel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   This is Elizabeth Beisel, qualified for the women's team in the 400 IM this evening.

Q.   Can you talk about what today shows about Gregg Troy and his program in Florida?
ELIZABETH BEISEL:   I think it's a true test to his coaching and a testament to the program.   The first three Olympians named happen to be three Gators and he is the best coach in the world.   I'm so fortunate to be able to swim for him.   It's not always fun but we make it fun and we work really hard and it's nice that it's all paying off.

Q.   Talk about Stephanie Rice, dominant in the 400 IM, how do you feel about taking her on?
ELIZABETH BEISEL:   It's definitely nerve wracking, she is amazing as a competitor and I know her coach is as good as mine and she is going to be in good hands especially going into the Olympics, and whoever the best is that day is going to win.   So we'll see how it goes.

Q.   How much do you think you can get from London?
ELIZABETH BEISEL:   There is always stuff to improve on in a 400 IM, from splits to turns to techniques, I think the most work I can do is on my fly and breaststroke.   Hopefully if I get those down I will be able to get those faster.   It was nice to be able to hit my time that I went tonight from last summer, so definitely good to have that under my belt.

Q.   Talk about the breaststroke leg.   You've made progress on that.
ELIZABETH BEISEL:   I have to thank Chuck and Gregg for that and it's been an on going process, it was messy a few years ago and it's coming around and the splits aren't completely there yet but I think within the next month going into the Olympics we're going to focus on breaststroke and trying to improve it.

Q.   Talk about Coach Batchelor's influence on you now since you've been training with Coach Troy.
ELIZABETH BEISEL:   I talk to Chuck three or four times a week, and he was the one I was talking to tonight before my race because I was so nervous, I knew Coach Troy was busy with others on the team and I can't thank Chuck enough, he's definitely a big part of my swimming and I still consider him as one of my coaches.
For me to be able to have him along with Gregg Troy, I'm really lucky.

Q.   What are the difference in the finals this year versus four years ago and how differently did you feel?
ELIZABETH BEISEL:   I felt exactly the same.   I was so nervous, you never know what to expect going into Trials, it's one of the biggest meets of your life.   You don't want to throw away all the hard work you've done and I was more of an expected person to make the team and I had nothing to lose but this time, I had my mind‑set where I have something to lose this year so I was more nervous this time around but I think now I can pretty much relax for the rest of the meet.

Q.   Can you talk about Caitlin Leverenz, she said it would be fun to be a teammate with you in this event.
ELIZABETH BEISEL:   Her and I have been competing for I don't know how long and she got fourth in this event in 2008 so I know she is excited to be on the team this year and she deserves it, her and Teri, what they have going on at Cal is amazing.   I'm glad it's her that I'm going to swim the 400 IM with.   We're good friends and we will definitely have fun with it.
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, Elizabeth andcongratulations.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT