TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 29, 2018
Ja'Deion High
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
West Virginia - 42, Texas Tech - 34   
 Q.  How disappointing was this game and the loss?  
JA'DEION HIGH: Very disappointing to go out there and just lay it down and don't even fight in the first half and just give it away.   
 Q.  How would you assess Jett's performance under those circumstances?  
JA'DEION HIGH: I think he did well.  He came in, made plays.  Can't ask for any more than that.  He did what he needed to do.   
 Q.  How difficult is it for a receiving corps to switch quarterbacks halfway through the game when it's one quarterback and then a quarterback coming in with a totally different style?  
JA'DEION HIGH: I mean, it's not that different.  We practice with them all week with all three of them going.  Everybody is in rotation so we know what to expect.  Jett just opens up the offense a little more when he starts running, so it's nice.   
 Q.  How difficult is it to play these 11:00 o'clock games compared to like a 3:00?  
JA'DEION HIGH: It's not difficult at all.  We wake up every day of the week at 6:00 a.m. and practice in the morning.  That's what we always do.   
 Q.  So you wouldn't attribute the flat start to the early game?  
JA'DEION HIGH: No, I wouldn't.   
 Q.  Coach Kingsbury talked about a lot of drops, which is kind of abnormal for you guys.  Will you focus on that this week looking ahead to TCU?  
JA'DEION HIGH: I mean, it's kind of surprising on all of our parts.  We didn't do what we needed to do when our number was called.  We'll do the same thing we do all week.  I mean, we execute all week, and when we go out there and do what we did, do something unexpected, it's hard to see.   
 Q.  Did you sense a flatness in the pregame or this morning?  
JA'DEION HIGH: A little bit, but when we started playing, it got a little -- started sensing it a little more, and we could tell we weren't executing how we needed to execute, and they got away from us.   
 Q.  How did you guys change that because the second half was obviously completely different?  
JA'DEION HIGH: We knew what we needed to do.  We didn't show up in the first half and do what we needed to do, and we told each other we need to get back and start executing like we need to, and we started doing a little better.   
 Q.  What do each of the quarterbacks bring to the table?  
JA'DEION HIGH: They're all great quarterbacks.  They get in there and play.  They may throw the ball, make the right checks, and we can't ask for anything more than that.   
 Q.  Moving forward, how are you guys going to use this as a game to kind of motivate you for the rest of the season, kind of remember what happened here?  
JA'DEION HIGH: We know we can't ever come out like that again and just give it up because when you play good teams, they're going to take you no matter what.   
 Q.  Seemed like Alan was off a little bit today, then when he was on, you guys had quite a few drops.  What's your diagnosis of that?  
JA'DEION HIGH: I couldn't tell you.  It was just like -- we kept telling each other, hey, the ball is coming back to you, just keep doing what you do; catch the ball, make a play when your number is called.   
 Q.  Did their secondary play affect you?  
JA'DEION HIGH: No, they did a good job of doing what they needed to and executed when they needed to.  We just didn't make our plays.   
 Q.  How did you feel after that shot to the head?  
JA'DEION HIGH: I felt good.  It didn't hurt.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT