TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 15, 2018
Ja'Deion High
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Texas Tech - 63, Houston - 49
Q. Talk about your game.
JA'DEION HIGH: Just executed plays, did routine things out there, you know, things people trust me to do every day.  That's all it was.
Q. Talk about the connection with you and the rest of the receivers.
JA'DEION HIGH: Yeah, we do have a pretty good connection, all four of us.  It doesn't matter who's out there.  He's shown that in practice when he came in and stepped in that it wasn't a problem, we were always in sync with him, so it's always been good.
Q. Talk about the play you had early, the 54-yard catch and long run.
JA'DEION HIGH: Yeah, I wasn't even supposed to get the ball on that play, but they were -- it was set up a different way.  We thought they were going to do something else, and the corner happened just to sink off and I looked back and saw the ball coming and just took off.
Q. Disappointed you didn't get in the end zone?
JA'DEION HIGH: Yeah, I wasn't ready to run yet.
Q. Getting to play this extra year and getting the opportunity, what have you dedicated yourself to doing this year for the team?
JA'DEION HIGH: I'm just trying to make more of a presence on the offensive side, be there as a leader for everybody.  I've been here six years, I've got young guys around me, so I'm trying to let them know what they need to do now in order to be successful later, giving them the answers now so they don't have to learn so much on their own so they can be successful earlier in their careers.
Q. You were smiling the whole time that Antoine was standing up here.  How happy are you for him?
JA'DEION HIGH: Pretty happy for him, man, it's an honor to be on that wall with all them legends.  That thing doesn't happen often.  He gets to be on that wall with everybody else.
Q. Did y'all know that this was coming from him?
JA'DEION HIGH: No, I wasn't expecting that from him at all.  I knew he was good, but I didn't know.
Q. What does it mean to come from the High family, and what does it mean for the rest of your life and your career?
JA'DEION HIGH: It means a lot.  I had a lot of uncles and cousins play a lot before me, athletes.  It's kind of like I needed to do what they do or else I wasn't really a part of the family or something like that.  But I just wanted to set the bar higher and show people you can do whatever you want to do.
Q. Kliff said during the off-season that this team was going to have to win on defense and the run game because there was big question marks at quarterback and receiver.
JA'DEION HIGH: Yeah, through the whole off-season, we just stayed humble, stayed quiet.  We just let everybody else talk on the outside, it didn't matter.  When it came game day, we knew we were going to show them something different.
Q. What have you seen from Alan that's made him so successful at quarterback?
JA'DEION HIGH: To come in that young and start your first game against Ole Miss and not even be worried about it, so he's had great composure.  Throughout the last three weeks he's shown great composure.  He runs the offense well; it's always in sync.  I'm proud of him for that.
Q. How much have you guys kind of opened up the offense to him?  How much has he been able to kind of get?
JA'DEION HIGH: He knows the whole offense.  Really we haven't stopped anything that we've done.  We've kept everything else complex, simple, whatever works.  It doesn't really matter what we do.
Q. When you guys went for it there at the 48, 4th and 2 before halftime and then you got it, did that give you guys some extra confidence and spark some energy on the sideline that your coach would make that gamble and you guys paid off?
JA'DEION HIGH: We always like when he goes for it on 4th down; it gives us another chance to get out there and play, but yeah, it gave us a little momentum swing going into the second half, scoring a touchdown on the last drive.
Q. Talk about the fact that you were around here so long and waited your turn.  How much fun is a day like today?
JA'DEION HIGH: It's a lot of fun to be able to come back, have games like these.  They're sometimes nail-biters, sometimes they're not, but they're the games you live for, out there fighting every down, every quarter, swinging at the other people, waiting until somebody breaks.  That's a good feeling.
Q. Is this your best birthday ever?
JA'DEION HIGH: Yeah, probably.  I never do anything.  I don't go out, do nothing on my birthday.  This is probably it I'll do for the day.
Q. What are you, 35 now?
JA'DEION HIGH: Yeah, getting up there.
Q. The punter on their team is 29, and he's still playing.
JA'DEION HIGH: How do they do that?  29, sheesh.
Q. Talk about the energy in the stadium with the white-out and everything.
JA'DEION HIGH: It's always great in the Jones.  Fans always come up and be rowdy.  That's why we like playing there.  We like seeing them out there.
Q. What do you think of Alan's shoes?
JA'DEION HIGH: I mean, these cleats are pretty tight.  You don't even have to tie them.  They fit pretty well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT