U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 31, 2005
Allen Doyle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Start us off with a few general comments about a 63 in the final round.
 ALLEN DOYLE:  Well, you know, like I said to the Golf Channel, I don't think you ever step up on the 1st tee with your goal being a 63.  Your goal is to drive the ball good here because that's a key on this golf course, and once you do that, if you can attack the pins, and I was pretty much able to do that.  You have to get on a run, which I did on the front nine when I birdied 5, 6, 7 and 8, and 10 was a must because you can't let 10 go by.

Then I thought when I get to 7 then I'm looking at if I can avoid mistakes out there, which is sometimes very hard to do, then I'm looking at an 8 , 9 under, and maybe I'm in the tournament.
Q.  Do you think you had to maybe get to 11 as you got to the last hole?
 ALLEN DOYLE:  I was thinking on 17 that I had to    I was concentrating too much probably on 17 with the line of the putt instead of the    and then on 18 I was bound and determined to hit it by the hole, and I hit it as hard as I thought I could, and it started bouncing and it didn't get there.

But, you know, you can't get up here and look back at a 63 and pick too many places out that you didn't execute what you were trying to do.  So I'm here, I've got a smile on my face and I'm waiting for the guys to finish.
Q.  25 putts in the round today.  Were you knocking it close, putting well or a little bit of both?
 ALLEN DOYLE:  A little bit of both.  I made a good putt on 8.  The other putts were probably a little more of the short variety.  But again, you get up there, and if you get in a pretty good mindset, you know, I felt putting was coming, although it probably hadn't shown statistically.  I felt my game was kind of coming, although it wasn't showing statistically.  I felt that I was shooting a lot of average rounds of golf, but I felt I was playing above average.

If you're doing that, you just have to be patient, kind of wait for your game to round into shape, and this was a good week to do it.
Q.  What are your plans for the next hour or so, hour or two?
 ALLEN DOYLE:  Well, I hope to find a few Budweisers laying around, but I'm going to have to hold off on that.  I'll go to the range and piddle around and keep abreast of what's going on and see what happens.  I don't think you go anywhere, even if it's the range to practice, assuming that something bad is going to happen.  You figure these guys are very, very capable, and if they have to make the shots coming down the stretch, then one or two out of the three or four will do it, but you never know.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT