U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 28, 2003
Allen Doyle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Four guys were under par when this day started, only four guys are under par today; only four guys under par played the golf course well?
ALLEN DOYLE: It was a tough day for everybody other than Bruce, I guess.  He was phenomenal today.  That putt, I got through early yesterday and watched some of it on TV and every key putt he had to make he made and he was even better than that today so  -- you know.  He hit a 3-wood off the tee, does what he has to do to keep it in play.  He is strong enough to get it out of the rough when he hits it in the rough and then he's got his putter hot as a firecracker close to the 4th, I guess. 

Q.  Can you run through your birdies and bogeys?
ALLEN DOYLE: I started off I birdied 3 from about six feet.  I really had a pretty good start. 
Then I doubled 4.  I hit it in the right trap and there was no sand at all in the bunker and I blasted it about 50 feet past the hole and made double. 
And then I birdied 5 from about eight feet and then.
I guess I went until 12 I made about a 4-footer for birdie. 
Then I bogeyed 14; I guess I hit it long in the back rough and I didn't get up and down. 
It was not that bad a day but when you put it up against Bruce's score it looks awful average.

Q.  Have you been in that position where you try to press yourself more?
ALLEN DOYLE: You try not to because odds are it ain't going to help you.  When a guy like that gets going you feel like you got to follow up some shots with some good shots.  But you know, it's just one of those things.  He's on, you know, and I'm close, but it didn't make a ton of things happen but I played fairly good.

Q.  On a course like this with one day to play, it's so hard; you know you can shoot 4-under and he can shoot 4-over?
ALLEN DOYLE: Oh, yeah, a course like this, where you miss this first fairway and second fairway and you make a bogey and the other guy makes a birdie and now you are not too far back and you are playing three or four groups ahead or maybe just one or two, and, you know, now you get through a good stretch like 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and he -- but you are going to have to make some birdies, that's what we'll have to do. 

Q.  64 seems to be the number; you got a 64 in your bag for tomorrow?
ALLEN DOYLE: I got it in my bag, I don't know about tomorrow.  I will shoot that number somewhere along the line.  I hope it's not too early in the round.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT