SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 5, 2003
Allen Doyle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ALLEN DOYLE: Birdies, I got a good start on 10 I was about 20 feet short of the green about 40 feet from the hole I chipped in.  11, I hit a 7-iron about eight, ten feet, made that.  12, I hit a 5-iron about 15 feet, made that.  So I got my birdies out the way quick.  Then I my only bogey  -- I take that back.  I bogeyed 13.  Had an 8-iron that had a little bit of mud on the face side of the ball that kind of ballooned it up and came up short and I pitched up about four feet but didn't make it.  Then 18 I hit it in the front right lip of the bunker, did not get up-and-down and then on the front nine my back nine I had nine pars.  I got off to a real good quick start, but I kind of just chugged along from there on up. 

ALLEN DOYLE: I thought they were decent.  You obviously had some wet spots.  And the greens were on the soft side so  -- but you never really had the opportunity to, you know, to be aggressive when you got maybe the few chances that you might have.  You had a hole like two with that right pin, if you are short or right you have absolutely no chance to get up-and-down so you would just play in pin-high left, you know, 30 feet.  So when you did have some shorter type holes the pins were set, what I thought were real tough and you just never  -- you can't ever, on this golf course, ever feel like you got a gimme shot or a gimme drive or a gimme chip because you have to put it in the fairway.  I drove it and I missed two fairways and they were in the short cut, but Bruce Lietzke and Rodger Davis, there was not a single time where they drove it in the rough that they made par on the hole, I mean it's that severe and you can't hit it, you know, if you can hit it 100 yards you are lucky, so the key is to put it in the fairway. 


Q.   Did the softer greens help with your ball flight?

ALLEN DOYLE: I didn't think the greens, you know, softness of the greens mattered much.  Mainly because you weren't flying them at a lot of pins.  You were 20 feet left and 20 feet right.  I think if you ever got a real good  -- if you got some good irons in your hand, I mean, even a hole like 5, the par 3, it was only 172 today but the wind was in our face so I was hitting 5-iron.  It was kind of a tuck-right pin.  So it almost seemed every time that you got a relatively short iron in your hand the pin was such that you don't want to do anything too aggressive.  I really didn't feel that the greens  -- if we had a lot of scoring clubs in our hands then it really would have mattered, but I just didn't feel  -- very seldom did I have , you know, what you'd call a good scoring club in your hand, where you can take advantage of the soft greens.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT