SENIOR TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
October 28, 2001
Allen Doyle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ALLEN DOYLE:  How do you like that.  
 
ALLEN DOYLE:  Well as you look back, you know, I look at the guys that finished second, third, fourth, fifth and then below that a little bit.  They are all  -- they are the stars of the SENIOR TOUR.  So for me to, you know, to beat those guys both in the Schwab Cup and in the money list  might be my highest achievement maybe.  As you look back it's just been an unbelievable year.  We made the donation because  -- I thought I had a great year in 1999.  I still thought I had a pretty good year in 2000 but when I did what I did this year, as soon as I convinced my wife that we were set financially, she was 100% behind it.  Just felt like the fair thing to do.  We have been fortunate, you know, as I look back I have had  -- I have been lucky enough to have -- Titleist has been great to me in the past six years.  It just felt like it was the thing to do. 
 
ALLEN DOYLE:  First of all, would be my college Norwich University.  I have already  -- I have started to endow a scholarship there in my father's name, a $200,000 scholarship that I gave my first payment last year.  My high school is a Christian Brothers denomination.  High school that I was  -- I was thinking of endowing a scholarship there myself and my two brothers went there so I was in the process of going to endow a scholarship there.  I have been   -- I myself haven't been active in Habitat for Humanity but I have already built two houses in La Grange, so we'll probably build one every other year with the Schwab money.  My wife has been active in Adult Literacy  in La Grange, so we'll give   -- as of yet we haven't determined the amounts, you know, to which charities but we'll give to the Literacy Volunteers of America.  I didn't put down that I would give  -- I planned to give some to the Francis Ouimet Scholarship Fund out of Massachusetts.  I was a Francis Ouimet scholar.  I still wonder how that happened, but I had a guy from my club pulling me (inaudible) (laughs)I feel like I have a lot of common sense but I was not a scholar.  So there will be others I think.  I said we'd like to do something for the next ten years, you know, for kids that lost one or both parents in the World Trade Center collapse.  So those are the ones right offhand that we'll fund and then I am sure in the next years we'll add to that as we get asked and as we see fit. 
 
Q.  When did you first start talking to your wife about it?
 
ALLAN DOYLE: About two weeks ago.  I didn't want to get too far ahead of myself.  So I wanted to make sure that, you know, if I had finished in fourth or fifth place no one would want to know about it anyway and it wouldn't have been much on top of that anyway.  Probably in the last two and a half weeks I brought it up to her.  As I say, I had to convince her that we were financially secure, because she doesn't get involved in the financing and she was a little taken back when I told her what I was thinking of doing but it.  Probably isn't the first time that she was taken back on something that I have said or done.  So it's just been recently when it turned out to be a two-man race.  I thought it was  -- I started to think about it, just seemed like the right thing to do. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible)
 
ALLAN DOYLE: For me anyway, you know, I played great Monday when I got here; played great Tuesday.  Wednesday I got thrown off kilter.  And I really hit the ball okay all week.  I was a dead duck when we started to have all these right things and aim low draw player, so, you know, and I could advance a conspiracy theory here, (laughter) so -- and the greens were, you know, way too firm for me to have any chance at doing real well.  I mean, I should have been, you know, I played -- certainly hit the ball well enough to shoot, you know, even to 4-, 5-under.  I couldn't have done any better than that.  And it's hard, you know, let's just say that all five of us were in this, you know -- did Gil Morgan come close to winning? Did Hale come close to wining?  You know, did Larry come close to wining?  I mean, it's awful hard to come to one specific event and then everybody say, okay, if you win, you can win this thing.  Well, you know, good luck.  And the conditions played, you know, they played the big, big part in it.  It really narrows who is playing well.  It really thins out, you know, the guys in the middle who would have had a pretty good, you know, like me, you know, if the greens were a shade softer, I certainly wouldn't have shot what I shot.  So it separates and it makes fewer and fewer guys that are going to play well.  But the bottom line, it's hard to come here knowing that you have to win or finish second to win.  It just  -- that's what everybody is talking about it to you, you are always thinking it from the first hole to,  you know, when you don't birdie 3 when it was downwind you blew an opportunity there and you knew there wouldn't be a ton of birdies.  So it's hard to come into that one event and turn it on exactly when you need it for the four rounds when you need it to make it happen.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible) motivation will be  a problem for you next year (inaudible) --
 
ALLAN DOYLE: I am not hungry to do this anymore.  I still love playing, so I will be out here next year, I mean, you know, if you were around me when I was around certain guys you'd think that you know, I am not doing much.  I am not saying anything, you know  -- staying in a corner, you know, but if you get around me when I am around certain other guys, you can see I am having a good time.  I will continue to do that.  But I mean, if you ask me if we polled everybody now to see who was going to be the lead money winner next year, you know, I may not even be in my top 5.  As time passes, I will still come out and try to play as hard as I can and, you know, I certainly don't expect myself to go from 32 to a 50 status next year.  I expect, you know, to play hard and hope that I am in the mix, play well and I can be a player out here. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT