FORD SENIOR PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
July 14, 2001
Allen Doyle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ALLEN DOYLE:   I come out of the gate and I bogeyed 1.  I hit it  -- it was one of the times that the wind really fooled me, which it did several times today.  But then I made a good chip-in on 2.  I hit an 8-iron right over the flag into the back short  cut and made a real good chip for birdie, probably just 18 feet or so.  Wasn't real far.  Then I birdied 3.  I laid up with a 4-iron about 15 yards short of the green and chipped it up about five feet.  Then I hit No. 7  -- with a 5-iron.  I had 230-something to the hole, thought it was dead downwind, big time.  Then I hit a 7-iron on 8 about eight feet and I made that.  9, I bogeyed.  I drove it great.  The winds was howling in my face and I killed a drive.  I had 136 to the hole and I was downhill, but the wind was howling at it and I was just afraid to hit 8-iron.  Came up probably ten yards short and I didn't make it.  Hit an especially good chip and then didn't make the putt, from about eight feet.  Then I birdied 11.  I think we had about 106 yards to the hole and I hit a sand wedge in there about two feet.  Then I bogeyed 12.  I hit a 7-iron in that left swale, left of the green and it was  -- you don't have much down there.  I chipped it into the other fringe and then I made bogey.  Bogeyed 14.  I made a good drive and a good 6-iron about 25 feet short of the hole and I ran it by about two and a half feet and then I missed it.  Birdied 15.  Hit a 7-iron about eight feet.  Then I made two good saves on 16 and 17 and parred 18.  1, I hit short and left of the hole  -- actually short and left of the green.  Didn't get up-and-down.  
 
Q.  Was the back nine playing more difficult?  It looks like everybody kind of tried to get through that. 
 
ALLEN DOYLE:   I thought it was.  The wind, you didn't know what the hell it was doing.  We were on 12 tee and I was up first and the wind was blowing like crazy, then it stopped.  So, you know, you're waiting for it to pick back up and you're kind of playing for it, to knock the ball down and right, and it didn't, for me.  So it just seems the whole side, the 15th hole, Tom Watson gets up first with a 6-iron and hits it 80 feet past the hole.  You thought that was the club, I ended up hitting 7 (-iron) and it turned out to be the club.  If I would have hit first, I probably would have hit what he hit.  So it was just moving around like crazy today, compared to the others days, when you pretty much got on the golf course, you knew whatever direction going down range, that's the direction the wind was blowing.  Today it was moving all over the place.  I. I thought the back nine  -- the 11th has got the crap on the right and the 12th has got it right and left, so you've got a lot of holes on that back nine that you try to aim away from stuff, and when you don't know exactly what the wind is doing, it makes it a little tougher.  
 
Q.  Is that what you're looking for, to be involved in a major with six, seven, eight, nine guys possible winners tomorrow? 
 
ALLEN DOYLE:   Yeah, if you want to do anything out here and you don't want to get in the mix, then you're going to languish in 20th place every week.  This is what you're out here for.  If you can win this thing, it would be  -- it will be huge.  
 
Q.  Obviously, it was a wild day for your whole group.  Were you amazed that Tom was able to recover from his horrible start?  He's only a shot behind you again?
 
ALLEN DOYLE:   You're not surprised with him after you see some of the shots he makes.  He was going for a point there that  -- you know, he makes the good birdie chip on 13.  14, he makes a great save.  15, he makes a great save.  If any of that stuff doesn't go right, the back nine probably plays as hard for him as it did for anybody.  But after seeing him, you know he's capable of a shot.  So it certainly didn't surprise me when he hit it close on 17 and then he made the putt.  But it's always kind of easy, if you have a bad front nine to come back the back nine.  He did.  He played a great back nine.  
 
Q.  How does the last few months of your really good consistent play stack up with the best golf when you were an amateur on the Nike Tour, even on the Senior Tour, how does it rate?
 
ALLEN DOYLE:   I would have to say it's up there.  I don't recall ever playing as consistent as I have.  I've always been consistent, but I'd have to say it would rank right up there with my amateur year in '94 when I won five out of seven events, and I finished second in the two others.  That's the only other time that I  -- I thought my Nike year was great because I led the Tour on stroke average, but it seems every week  -- I've played good every week, not so much every single nine, because I've had a few off front nines and come back the back nine, and it seems every day I manage to shoot a pretty good score.  
 
Q.  I vaguely know something about a hockey background and watching you play out there you can see it in your swing.  Can you talk about that and why you don't wear a glove? 
 
ALLEN DOYLE:   I've never worn a glove.  I'll cover that first.  You know, when I was a kid and a caddy, I couldn't afford them.  So I started playing the game without one.  So I've never gone to one.  My hockey background, I was a good collegiate player.  I think the swing was  -- you know, was a mix of wanting to drive it in play and to beat some of the guys, some of the other caddies, and the way to do it was hit it straight and everybody else was trying to hit it long.  Just seeing that the swing worked for me with my  -- with the strong legs and the strong hands and forearms that you had to have to be a hockey player.  
 
Q.  Being in the last group of a major, you know Ed obviously pretty well from talking to him?
 
ALLEN DOYLE:   I know Ed pretty good.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
ALLEN DOYLE:   What I do, anyway, is you've got to see how things start to play out.  You know, someone asked me outside the scoring at the point, "What do you think you've got to shoot tomorrow to win?"   Hell, I don't know.  You could shoot 70 and win or shoot 70 and not win. What you have to do is show up and see what plays out opponent those first three holes, six holes on the front nine, and then you ought to have a pretty good picture of the back nine.  Even if you're two or three behind going into the back nine, you've got to be aggressive.  If you're a shot up, you hit away from the junk out there and you are aggressive when you can be.  But I know Ed good.  We play a lot of practice rounds together.  So, it will be nice  -- it's always a little more comfortable playing with guys that you know.  I felt today I was the total odd man out, so I concentrated on my own game and tried to  -- that's what you'll end up doing anyway.  When you get to the back nine, we won't be saying too much to anybody no matter how friendly we are.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT