NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 14, 2014
Steven Adams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How do you see your role going forward?  
STEVEN ADAMS:   Do whatever the coach says.   Do whatever the coach says.   All I have to do is do that and work as hard as I can as soon as I get on the court.  
   
 Q.   What's it like coming into a veteran team being a young player?   
STEVEN ADAMS:It's actually really cool.   Some people told me something like what to expect and that there was like bullying and stuff like that.   
But, no, it's cool.   They just want you to get better.   They all have the same goal.   They all want you to get better to help the team, to do anything you can to help out the team.   
Derek Fisher has been ready all the time to give me any help I need.   
   
 Q.   What was one of the most challenging things coming into the NBA?  
STEVEN ADAMS:   The schedule.   The schedule.   It takes a toll.   
   
 Q.   Did you expect to play this big of a role year one, or did you think it would be more of a like an internship year?   Did you think you would have a spot in the rotation like you have?  
STEVEN ADAMS:   No.   I had no expectations coming in.   I just literally took it day by day.   And whatever happened, happened.   
I mean, they didn't say anything; I didn't say anything.   I just kept working hard and doing whatever they said.   It turned out well.  
   
 Q.   Do you think your natural aggression out there and your physicality is going to lend itself pretty well to the NBA game?   If you play with energy and you can rebound a little bit and defend in the post, you can have a nice career in the NBA?  
STEVEN ADAMS:   Yeah.   What was the question?   Do you think I should do that?   
   
 Q.   I'm just saying do you think that your overall skill set, that it sort of lends itself toyou can really help this team.   
STEVEN ADAMS:   Yes.   It's good now.   Whatever skills they need me to develop, that's what I'm trying to do.   They just want me to find ways to help the team, and that's the biggest way that I can help.   I'm just enjoying the moment right now.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT