OKLAHOMA CITY THUNDER MEDIA CONFERENCE
June 1, 2016
Steven Adams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
 Q.  What was this playoff run like for you the last couple months, just the intensity of it at all?  
STEVEN ADAMS: Well, it was awesome.  It was great on the court, but more so off the court is what really stuck out for me.  Our relationships in the locker room grew just because we were faced with a lot of challenges that we had to overcome.   
So, yeah, that just brought us closer together.  It's really how we got as far as we did.   
 Q.  Did the big business of basketball and all the attention surrounding you surprise you at all?  What do you think of that?  
STEVEN ADAMS: I don't know.  Which?   
 Q.  Just like the attention.  Suddenly you're like a star in the NBA.  
STEVEN ADAMS: Me?  No.  Are you kidding me?  No.   
 Q.  Just the media attention you got.  You talk to us every day.  You're on SportsCenter.  
STEVEN ADAMS: Yeah, talked to you guys every day, didn't I (laughter)?   
 Q.  Yes, you did.  
STEVEN ADAMS: Yeah, it wasn't ideal (laughter).   
I mean, as much as I love you guys, as much as I love you guys, but, yeah, I don't know, it was just, yeah, regular stuff.  Familiar faces, obviously, you guys are.  Some I look forward to.  Some random ones in there.   
 Q.  In the playoffs, it seems like you raised your game to another level.  Were you conscious of that throughout the playoffs and all of a sudden you became a factor in the whole three rounds, 18 games?  Were you conscious of that or were you basically defending what you were doing, what they were saying, how effective you would be?  
STEVEN ADAMS: Yeah, well, it all just came down to -- obviously in playoffs, they take away the main ingredients.  So they took out Russ and KD, which actually kind of forced us to actually put different players in positions to make plays, to collapse the defense, to free up the main stars, right?  So like KD and Russ, to free them up more.  That's all it came down to.   
Then, I guess, intensity-wise, that just came with the playoffs, playoff intensity, stuff like that.  But yeah.  I think I just kind of stayed the same because I was just open a lot more because of how they were defending rather than in the regular season when it's not actually like that.   
 Q.  In the San Antonio series, seems like you were the best player, not just from my opinion, but the double-doubles that you had.  Really kind of turned the series in a sense.  KD and Russ were getting a lot of the attention, but it seemed like you really stepped into your own.  
STEVEN ADAMS: Yeah, I mean, kind of the same thing.  It all was based around what I just said.   
Buy I guess I was happy.  I guess I was confident with the situation I was given.  Obviously the coach talked about it, like, We're going to be in these positions, stuff like that.  Yeah, I was just confident being in there.   
 Q.  What are you going to look like when you come back?  
STEVEN ADAMS: Just like Chewbacca, man.  Hair everywhere, mate (laughter).   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) said you were going to be a monster.  Do you mean like on the court?  
STEVEN ADAMS: Hopefully off the court, just terrorizing citizens (laughter).   
 Q.  Do you have a sense of how your stock has risen in New Zealand, your fame, people's interest in the NBA?  
STEVEN ADAMS: Oh, yes.  Dude told me, yeah, one of the fans.  Said that basketball -- yeah, I'm not sure about the fame, but like basketball is now becoming a really popular sport in New Zealand, which is great, which is really good.  Obviously a lot of things come out of it.  Get scholarships and stuff like that easier.  That's what I'm pushing.  That's the only thing I care about.  It's good to see that progress.   
 Q.  You kind of pushed through some of these injuries through the last series.  Now that everything is over, you had a chance to sit down, are you really kind of feeling the effects of this playoffs physically?  
STEVEN ADAMS: Nah, not at all, not yet.  Mentally, yeah, but physically, no.  I could play another series, so...   
 Q.  You say 'mentally.'  How so?  
STEVEN ADAMS: It's draining.  Obviously when you're trying to maintain that level of focus with that intensity, that environment, that itself is draining.  That's what the whole playoffs is.   
So to maintain that, especially when you don't get obviously the results that you want, adds an extra kick.  Shouldn't say 'kick'.  Just adds the extra, yeah, stuff (laughter).  Caught myself.   
 Q.  How have you and will you follow this Kevin Durant story on Twitter?  Not at all?  Real interest?  
STEVEN ADAMS: For?   
 Q.  How are you going to follow Kevin?  
STEVEN ADAMS: Follow as far as his decision and stuff?   
 Q.  Yes.  
STEVEN ADAMS: Just flip him a text, see what he's going to do, I guess.  I don't know.   
We just support him.  I mean, we support him.  We understand this it's his decision.  I ain't trying to pressure him.   
By the way, I'm real low on the totem pole.  I'm lucky enough to get his number (laughter).   
 Q.  Wherever you're at, how will you literally follow it?  
STEVEN ADAMS: Out of the country?   
 Q.  If you are.  
STEVEN ADAMS: Uhm, I don't know, mate.  I don't know.  I'm more just like a 'check on him personally' type guy instead of following him in the media.  You guys find out before anyone else, don't you?   
 Q.  We act like we do.  
STEVEN ADAMS: Probably rely on you guys, I guess.   
 Q.  As his teammate, do you have a sense of what decision he might make?  
STEVEN ADAMS: No, not at all.  The whole team's just been focused on what we had to do at hand.  Yeah, we came as far as this, which was marvelous really.  It was really good for us.   
But in terms of his off-court decisions and stuff like that, that's all his stuff.   
 Q.  You said you're low on the totem pole.  The truth is you're high on the totem pole for the reason that the future is so bright.  The Thunder now has a 22-year-old center that can do everything and is just going to keep getting better.  That's just one more great selling point to Kevin Durant.  Do you have a sense of how valuable you've become to this franchise?  
STEVEN ADAMS: No.  I mean, when you put it like that, what you just said, you should sell that as a (indiscernible), mate.  Sounds like an infomercial (laughter).   
Yeah, I haven't realized it at all.  Just have been head down, working hard, mate.  Trying to keep my nose clean.   
 Q.  You also potentially have a decision coming up.  I mean, you're extension eligible this summer.  Is your plan to stay here?  Do you want to work out an extension for restricted free agency?  
STEVEN ADAMS: No idea, mate.  Haven't even given that any thought.  I don't know.  That's up to obviously the agent and Sam and stuff like that, yeah.  That's why I have them.  They speak differently.  Can't be bothered with it.   
I don't know.  Whatever happens, mate, really.  If it comes around, I'll deal with it (indiscernible).   
 Q.  Why do you think your look has become so popular?  You wear your own shirt.  Little kids are dressing up like you.  
STEVEN ADAMS: I mean, obviously it's different.  It's weird.  It's quirky, I guess.  Yeah, I guess just bizarre.  I can't really say.   
It's good.  It's positive, I think, for us 'cause, yeah, it doesn't take much to maintain this thing right here.  Just have to leave yourself go.   
 Q.  Where will you spend the majority of your off-season?  New Zealand?  
STEVEN ADAMS: Yeah, it will probably be some in New Zealand and in America.  I'll be back, I don't know when.  I don't know.  Yeah, but just somewhere in the world.  I'll be on Earth (laughter).   
 Q.  Olympics, is your sister going to be competing?  
STEVEN ADAMS: Yes, she is.   
 Q.  Will you go to Rio?  
STEVEN ADAMS: I'm not sure.  Haven't decided yet.  Got that weird disease around there.  Do some research before I go, if I go.  But, yeah, it will be good.  Hopefully she does well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT