MLB WORLD SERIES: NATIONALS VS ASTROS
October 27, 2019
Yordan Alvarez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Houston - 7, Washington - 1
Q. When things maybe weren't going your way earlier this postseason how did you sort of work out of it and how did that feel to get your first homer of the postseason tonight?
YORDAN ALVAREZ: Very happy with the home run. Obviously today all my teammates were saying today is your day. Today is your day. And it happened so obviously very happy about it.
Q. Why did everybody think today was your day?
YORDAN ALVAREZ: I don't know. Like maybe because I was going to play left field today. Also the team was very positive and excited. So who knows?
Q. Carlos said that you'd spent some time in the cage the last couple of days. What were you working on? What did you think you fixed?
YORDAN ALVAREZ: Just different adjustments. Different adjustments to make, different pitches. And to be able to focus on any pitches in the zone, those were the basic things.
Q. At your most frustrated we saw you break a bat over your knee. How frustrated did you get during this time when you were struggling?
YORDAN ALVAREZ: Yeah, obviously everyone saw it. I broke the bat. But I made the adjustments and happy where I'm at now.
Q. (Question in Spanish.)
YORDAN ALVAREZ: You think about a lot of things before signing. You think about a lot. But I never thought that I'd be here in the big leagues at the biggest stage and performing at the biggest stage.
Q. Can you take us through the at-bat in the second, please, what you saw from -- why you laid off the fastballs, what were you looking for with the sinker?
YORDAN ALVAREZ: Just looking for a pitch to hit. Looking for something in the middle. Not really thinking about home run and just trying to make hard contact and it went out.
Q. But that was outside, the one you hit?
YORDAN ALVAREZ: Just looking to hit the ball through the middle and it went out.
Q. Other than your teammates who tonight did you get to celebrate your great performance with? Hitting a home run in the World Series is such a special thing, especially for rookies. Is there a family member? Is there a friend? Loved one? Who did you celebrate this moment with?
YORDAN ALVAREZ: Yeah, obviously with everybody, I haven't been able to talk with everybody. Received a lot of messages. But Correa and Díaz were the ones that really said that this is going to be your day, this is going to be your day. And Correa said it again after we got into the clubhouse that, see, I told you, this is the day. So obviously have celebrated with everybody.
Q. After you went having three hits tonight, how are you feeling going back to Houston and DH'ing for the last few games of your rookie season?
YORDAN ALVAREZ: Happy. Very happy. Obviously we did the job here, which was to win three games. And very happy to go back to Houston and to do my job to hit as a DH.
Q. (Question in Spanish.)
YORDAN ALVAREZ: My life story is a very long story.
Q. (Question in Spanish.)
YORDAN ALVAREZ: I'll have to tell you the whole story.
But to the question before that, obviously I talk with my dad every day. And we talk about everything. And during the off day we had some time and were able to talk together and talk about what I was doing well, what I need to make adjustments on. And so he's always been a help for me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT