AL DIVISION SERIES: RAYS VS ASTROS
October 7, 2019
Yordan Alvarez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Yordan, you told us you talked to your teammates about the playoffs, about postseason, how to deal with the pressure and that kind of thing. Is it kind of what you thought it would be now that you've got a couple games in?
YORDAN ALVAREZ: It's exactly what I thought it would be. Before the postseason, they told me how to prepare mentally, physically for the postseason, and it's been exactly the way I imagined.
Q. Yordan, you talked about some adjustments you were working on throughout the last month in September. What specifically were you working on with your swing and your swing mechanics to get it back to where you wanted it?
YORDAN ALVAREZ: We're always making adjustments. One of the things I was trying to do was hit the ball to the opposite field more. Just try to make those adjustments, and it's starting to work.
Q. Yordan, when you talk about trying to hit the ball to the opposite field, you're a big guy. You've hit some very long home runs. But when you look at your numbers, you hit for average. You have good discipline.
How important is it for you to be a complete hitter and not just a power hitter?
YORDAN ALVAREZ: It's very important. Very important to hit the ball to all fields, and was trying to work on that, especially late in the season. And to be able to do that, obviously, not everything is going to be a home run. So have to work on hitting to all fields.
Q. Because this is your first time playing here, I wanted to know what your thoughts were during BP yesterday on how you see the ball here and how it carries and just how you think it might be playing here for the first time.
YORDAN ALVAREZ: Felt good. It felt normal, and I felt good in practice. Pretty normal.
Q. (Question in Spanish.)
YORDAN ALVAREZ: It's been really impressive to be part of this lineup. Sometimes I believe it. Other times it's really hard to believe that I'm a part of this lineup.
But playing every day with our team, it's really incredible to watch. For me to be a part of this, I'm really very pleased about it.
Q. Yordan, have you taken a moment maybe during the first game or second game to take in all the atmosphere, just soak it all in for a second?
YORDAN ALVAREZ: Yes, I'm definitely taking advantage of it. Obviously, I've seen postseasons in the past with Houston and what they've done. So to be here now, I'm really enjoying the moment.
Q. (Question in Spanish.)
YORDAN ALVAREZ: One of the things that's helped me out the most is that whenever my teammates have seen that they can give me some advice, they do, very openly, and I've taken it in. So it's been really helpful for me, especially in this postseason.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT