TROPHEE HASSAN II
April 18, 2018
Miguel Vidaor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MIGUEL VIDAOR: Welcome to the 45th edition of the Trophée Hassan II.  This is the ninth time it has featured on The European Tour International Schedule.  It is an amazing privilege for us to be here in this incredible, beautiful country and at this wonderful venue.
On behalf of The European Tour, I would like to thank His Majesty King Mohammed VI for his Royal Patronage, and His Royal Highness Prince Moulay Rachid for his support to make this event happen and to make it better every single year.  His vision to improve the Red and Blue Courses year after year has to be commanded and congratulated.
Together with world-renowned architect Mr. James Duncan, they have embarked on a big revamp of the red course over the last two years, which started in 2017 with all the fairway bunkers, and for this year, with the complete redesign of all 18 green complexes.
This is a huge task.  It's a massive project, and it has been done to the highest of standards.  The quality of the redesign is quite incredible and the condition of the golf course is just simply world class.
The vision of His Royal Highness Prince Moulay Rachid is to bring the Red Course back to what it used to be back in the 70s; being one of the toughest, strongest golf courses in the world of golf, and I can certainly tell you, this is where we are right now.
It's an incredible thing what they have done, and we are just so privileged to be here.
I would like to thank the ATH, the team led by Lalla Soumia and all her team.  Just to put one professional tournament together takes a lot of hard work.  It's very complicated.  It's an incredible achievement.  They put on hours and hours of hard work and you can see the standard of the facilities and the infrastructure, it's a huge event, massive logistics and a big thank you to Lalla and her team for doing such a wonderful job.
This is the only time in the season that we are able to join forces or to be at the same venue with our colleagues on the Ladies European Tour.  This is a wonderful festival of golf.  The entire world of golf is looking at us, and this is what makes this week so unique.
To have both tours, Ladies European Tour, European Tour on the same venue, the same week, two incredible golf courses in an amazing country, is wonderful and we are extremely grateful to be a part of this.  Thank you very much.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT