TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN BY THE MINISTRY OF YOUTH AND SPORT
November 15, 2014
Miguel Vidaor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Play suspended yesterday afternoon, again another delay this morning of an hour, give us a sense of what the green keepers faced when they came in this morning after that storm.   
MIGUEL VIDAOR:   Basically they were dealing with, we had two storms, one at 3.00 am and another at about 5.00 am in excess of 40 millimetres of rain.   The amazing thing about this golf course is the drainage is absolutely incredibly good.   We came out here this morning, and the course was actually quite dry.   
So they had been dealing basically with repairing some bunker damage but nothing major, and some of the waste areas, we had some casual water standing and they have been pushing that water away but nothing major which is remarkable.  
   
 Q.   What's the forecast for the rest of today?  
MIGUEL VIDAOR:   Unfortunately it's not very good.   We had the low pressure system is right on top of us right now and the problem is the moment you get a gap in the weather out in the sea in the south of us, the moment the sun comes up, new thunderstorms are developing.   We are now watching another band of thunderstorms to our south which will probably be with us within an hour or so, so, yeah, it's not looking too promising unfortunately.   
   
 Q.   You've introduced preferred lies for the third round?  
MIGUEL VIDAOR:   That is correct, we have introduced preferred lies for the third round.   We couldn't do it for the second round; we were in the middle of the round, but we will have preferred lies for round three.  
   
 Q.   What are the consequences for this tournament now that you've lost 3 1/2 hours of play?  
MIGUEL VIDAOR:   The good thing about this format is not having a cut means that we can actually avoid to have to redraw between rounds, and players basically go out in the same groupings.   So we are gaining a lot of time by doing that.   Believe it or not, we can still even afford to lose another three hours and still deliver four rounds by tomorrow at 4.45.   That will be again, not redrawing between rounds three and four, which is not ideal but if we have to do it that's what we'll do.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT