TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN BY THE MINISTRY OF YOUTH AND SPORT
November 14, 2014
Miguel Vidaor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about the situation?
MIGUEL VIDAOR:   Obviously we stopped play for lightning at 12.04.   We knew that there was bad weather coming today.   That's why we moved the tee times forward by an hour and 15 minutes, as much as we could, given the daylight available. 
Unfortunately we had to suspend play at 12.04.   After watching that storm system coming through, the weatherman thought we were going to get a break of about an hour and 45 minutes until the next one, which the area‑‑ and he did say there was a chance, because of instability in the air, there would be other thunderstorms popping up. 
And as we went for the restart at 2.40pm.   As the players were warming up on the range, we had another cell just popping up southeast of us heading towards us and within 18 miles. 
So unfortunately there's more and more thunderstorms all over the place, and there's a big band coming behind them.   So we have had to cancel it and call it for the day and come back tomorrow and restart at 8.00. 

Q.   The European Tour like a 72‑hole tournament; is that out of the question? 
MIGUEL VIDAOR:   That's still very much achievable.   I think basically what we are going to do now is we are restarting at 8.00 tomorrow morning.   We have about two and a half hours left to play.   What we are going to do, and that's the beauty of the format of this tournament is we don't have a cut, which means that we don't have to do a new draw between rounds two and three. 
So what's going to happen is the players are going to go with the same groupings as they are in round two, and they are going to play the same groupings on round three, which means we are going to gain a lot of time. 
All going well, we are looking at the last group going off for round three just after 11.00 tomorrow, which means we are going to be back on track finishing round three just after 4.00   tomorrow, which then gives us the option to redraw for the final round and have a proper final round on Sunday. 
The weather forecast tomorrow is still a low chance of a thunderstorm, nothing like today, and Sunday looks very good.   So fingers crossed, I think we should be able to achieve 72 holes on Sunday.

Q.   Can the course stand the deluge? 
MIGUEL VIDAOR:   I think it does.   We have the experience from last year, it drains extremely well.   Last year we had 35 millimetres in one night and with a bit of a delay, we started in the morning.   It drains really well and so far it hasn't been too bad.   So we are hoping that we will be able to start tomorrow, provided we don't get some torrential, horrific stuff. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT