TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN BY THE MINISTRY OF CULTURE AND TOURISM
November 7, 2013
Miguel Vidaor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Obviously a terrific storm came through last night, we all heard it.   Give us the specifics of why play wasn't possible early on.   Was it the lightning or the effect the rain had on the course?
MIGUEL VIDAOR:   Unbelievably we had in excess of 20 millimetres of rain overnight on the course, was absolutely bone dry this morning.   There was absolutely no problem. 
The issue we had this morning was a lightning threat.   We had a band of storms that came through us for about two hours, two‑hour delay was caused by that.   It was basically a danger from lightning. 
After that, then you know, the storms came through, it was safe to re‑open all the practise facilities, which we did.   At that point, we went out on the golf course to assess the damage and we realised that some of the greens were under water and some of the waste areas, as well, and that's why we've had another delay of an hour.

Q.   At the moment you're scheduled to start at 12 o'clock local time.   Tell us about the work going on out there. 
MIGUEL VIDAOR:   Right now they are pushing the water out of the greens and they are pumping some of the areas, some of the waste areas; they are pumping the water away.

Q.   What about the scenario for the tournament now, obviously you've lost some time today, there's not much daylight here, you can only play until about 5.00, 5.15.   How does this knock‑on effect go on?
MIGUEL VIDAOR:   Well, at this point, we are on track for a four‑round tournament.   Basically the idea is now we are not going to be redrawing between rounds one and two. 
All going well, you know, if we don't have any further delays, we should have about two hours left of play tonight, we can restart tomorrow at 8.00, and then you know, the last group will go by 11.00, which will be back on track.

Q.   What's the forecast for the next few hours, because I've heard rumours there's a little storm bubbling up south of us. 
MIGUEL VIDAOR:   We are watching.   We are watching a little storm.   I was just talking to the weather man and he is confident this might just slide past us and we might just miss it.   We just need to be watching out for the rain.   If it gets heavier, we might have problems, but if it stays on the light side, we should be okay.

Q.   Have you had to move any pins to high spots to protect from these low‑lying water areas? 
MIGUEL VIDAOR:   There's one we are moving right now on hole No. 10 but the others are actually fine.   The course drains amazingly well.   At the moment the rain is off, and the standing water goes very quickly.

Q.   What about preferred lies, will you be playing those today?
MIGUEL VIDAOR:   We are going to assess it again now, but I mean, we have assessed it this morning, and there was absolutely no need for them.   It was amazing, it was dry as a bone, absolutely no problem. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT