BAYLOR UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 23, 2017
Taylor Young
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Oklahoma - 49, Baylor - 41   
TAYLOR YOUNG: We still have a long way to go, but our team's getting better each week.  So hopefully things just keep on blowing up.   
 Q.  Coach talks about trusting the process and getting better week by week.  You guys on film from week one to now have made a tremendous amount of improvement.  Could you see it yourself, and also talk about when you guys took the lead, the crowd went berserk.  Could you feel the electricity in the air?  
TAYLOR YOUNG: Yes, the crowd was great tonight.  It was just like -- I mean we always preach every day in practice just every little detail, all the small details will end up coming together in the end.  So just having that crowd out there was great.   
But it was just, it's all about us.  It's all about what the team's going to do and what the team can do.  Everybody who looks to the left and looks to the right, and we're all brothers.  That's definitely how it goes every day in practice.  That's where it starts though.   
 Q.  At the end of the day, how disappointing is it to get that close and know you guys have a chance to get to the number three team in the country after the way the season kind of started for you?  
TAYLOR YOUNG: It's disappointing, but at the same time as a team and as a captain, I can't just be sad about it.  Like we've really got to keep pushing because it is a young team, and we're steady getting better.  I'm just proud of all the guys that played.  Like a whole bunch of guys came back today, so it just shows what type of energy those guys bring.   
So just having everybody back and getting better, having that right there, like that unit, you know what I mean?  Just having them back and just having like guys fly around, it was great, but we still have to get better.   
 Q.  Taylor, how important is it to have nights like tonight where you don't like the outcome, but you guys know the process is working.  You're getting better on a weekly basis as opposed to different sort of outcomes?  
TAYLOR YOUNG: I mean, it's tough, you know.  It's tough.  Just because our record isn't really what it needs to be.  But just having those guys out there, showing some fight, even though at a point we were down 18, we still fought back.  I mean, it was just a great feeling to see those guys fighting.  I'd love to go to war with those guys any day of the week.   
 Q.  Taylor, Zach comes in, he's getting hit.  But that dude was fighting all night.  
TAYLOR YOUNG: Slinging it, slinging it.  I was proud of him.  It really showed in practice what he did.  You know, just really just being accountable and just in practice he had that intense look in him.  Every day he was focused in.  He was locked in.  So I'm proud of him because it just showed.  Like I knew he was going to ball out this week and it just showed every day in practice.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT