BAYLOR UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 2, 2017
Taylor Young
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Liberty - 48, Baylor - 45
Q. So is this then test that theory now, this week?
TAYLOR YOUNG: That's exactly what it's going to do.  Us as a team, it's like we're all close together, so I just feel like everything's going to be okay, everything's going to be fine.  I feel like I still got practice on Monday, it's just all about that right now.  That's just how it goes.
Q. Coach said you can't use excuse or lack of experience as an excuse, but the secondary, as young as it was, did you feel like that front seven needed to kind of bring more pressure and help those guys out?
TAYLOR YOUNG: Just as a whole, just as a team, but I feel as a -- yeah, probably for sure.  But at the same time, it's just about focusing in, just doing your job at the end of the day.  And like that's really all it came down to.  Like in practice we always talk about getting pressure as quick as we can all the time.  Like there's no excuses.  So as a front seven that's what we need to do.
Q. Did you see this coming in any way, shape, or form?
TAYLOR YOUNG: No.  No.  Not at all, because our practices were great.  Over the week, everybody was focused, everybody was locked in.  So now we just got to go in and practice the small things and all, like our details and stuff like that, and we'll be okay.  We'll definitely be okay.  I promise.
Q. I asked the question to Coach Rhule about the inexperienced secondary.  Blake had never played corner.  We understand that Jordan had very rarely done that and also obviously with Hand, a freshman.  Does this experience still help them some way despite the disappointment?
TAYLOR YOUNG: Most definitely.  Any type of game experience is great.  So just like just having this time and like even though it wasn't the most like a good performance, it still is great to have that experience so the next week they already know what to expect.  Like they know that because those guys played a hell of a game.  They did.  They played a good game.  So just having that experience like going into the next game, it will be great because it's like their mindset will be different.  It will be very different now that they're locked in, they're focused in more.
Q. Coach said you guys thought they might go to the spread.  Were they better tonight than you guys thought they would be, talent-wise?
TAYLOR YOUNG: Probably.  I believe so.  I believe so.
Q. Size-wise and speed-wise, was it -- kind of the same question, but is that a little bit surprising just in terms of the quarterback's crispness and his accuracy and seeing what you saw?
TAYLOR YOUNG: To be honest, those guys played a great game.  Just in total, they played hard.  I mean, to be honest, it's on us to be outstanding in every aspect of the game.  So and now it's on Monday.  That's just how it is.
Q. Coach Rhule has been so positive from the day he walked in the door, and obviously he even talked about how initially he had to kind of convince you that he wanted you back and that was a decision you had to make.  Is he capable of making sure that this continues on into next week with this same positivity?
TAYLOR YOUNG: Yes.  He is most definitely.  Coach Rhule's consistent.  Everything about him is consistent.  So I just feel like he yeah, okay our team loss today, but it's still learning, we're still learning.  So probably week four will be our best week.  Because everybody's still learning.  We're still growing as a team and as a staff as well with our team we're still growing all together.  So every day everybody's getting better.
Q. You've been a part of a conference championship team.  Is this the low moment right now?
TAYLOR YOUNG: It can be.  It can be.  I hope it is.  I hope so.  Because it happened early.  That's a great thing to happen, to taste a loss this early as this right here, it's a great thing because now our team knows how to, they know how it feels and I doubt anybody wants to go through this again.  So it will be a tad more urgency now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT