CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: ALABAMA VS OKLAHOMA
December 27, 2018
Curtis Bolton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Your senior year, two wins from a National Championship.  Just how special a moment is this for you?
CURTIS BOLTON: You know, it's a blessing, especially just where I was at last January, not knowing what was for certain, not knowing what my future held, and just to have it work out like it has is just a blessing, and I'm just trying to finish it out the right way.
Q. Do you tell some of the younger players there's never any guarantee a team is going to make it to the playoffs, and you really have to take advantage of your opportunities, especially after last year?
CURTIS BOLTON: Yeah, I remember back when we were in this spot two years ago, and everybody was just like, we don't know if we're going to be here again, so let's make the most of it, and we didn't capitalize last time.  So that's what I'm kind of trying to get the younger guys to realize, like it's a blessing to be in this spot, but we were two, three plays out -- two, three plays we don't make and we're not sitting in this spot, and you don't know if it's going to go down like that a year, two years, three years from now, so you're here, and we've got a shot, so let's go take it.
Q. Alabama is excited about the opportunity to face Kyler.  What about your defense facing the Heisman Trophy runner up in Tua?  How excited are you for that challenge?
CURTIS BOLTON: You know, from a team standpoint, we've got to come up with some stops.  I feel like we have the best offense in the country, but they're top five if not top two or three overall.  It's always good to get out there against competition like that.  A lot of those guys are going to play at the next level, so if you play good against them, you're going to get your shot, too.  It's just one of those things where as the team goes, you want to cash in on the school's rich history, especially at a place like this.  We do so well here, we're here so often, and a lot of our National Championships come from here.  It's kind of just trying to bring the Sooner magic back into this place.  From a personal goal, just trying to -- they say Alabama is the best.  I think we're the best team in the country, so Saturday we'll see.
Q. Marquise Brown, Hollywood, how unique is it for his nickname to be his hometown, and just trying to get a sense of what do you think that means to him, and what would it mean for you if you were known for your hometown?
CURTIS BOLTON: I mean, that's -- you want to put on for your city, you want to put on for your section.  So just having the nickname as your hometown, that's really cool.  I mean, just when people speak of you, they have to know about the city, and now people are realizing that -- I know a lot more people know about Hollywood, Florida, now than they did five, six months ago, so that's great.  It's everyone's goal to put on for their city, so just to have your city as your nickname and have everybody know that and then eventually know that it's a city down here and just putting on for your city and your family, I think that's huge.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT