SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 6, 2008
Sharon Fanning-Otis
Tysheka Grimes
Marneshia Richard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:  Coach, an opening comment and then we'll take questions for the players. 
 COACH FANNING:  I think you have to get credit to Ole Miss.  They're a team that plays very hard.  I felt like we put ourselves in a position to do things to win a ballgame because first half we got three to the line, we missed some free throws and we had an eight-point lead where I thought that we just didn't focus and we weren't tough enough from a defensive stand in the first half. 
 Second half the bottom line is, I think, turnovers, and then shots.  You have to make some shots.  Our percentage was 22 percent, and we missed some key buckets.  We had some good open looks, we had some lay-ups, and if that happens, as a team you have to be ready to rebound.  You have to find something -- if you miss shots, then as a team you have to find a way defensively to make it up or to get that extra rebound, and we just -- they made some big plays. 
 They hit a couple of shots down the stretch where we were in their face, and I think we lost focus just a little bit and they gained some momentum and put themselves in a position to get a stretch there and got a lead that they could hold onto. 
 Hopefully we learn from this.  We've been trying to emphasize -- I thought February we played better in terms of spurts.  But that 40-minute game that we're looking for, it's elusive a little bit right now.  We haven't tackled it the way we have to.  It takes focus, it takes the value of every possession and being smart with the basketball, and if we continue to improve that and mature as a basketball team, we'll end up a good basketball team.  Hopefully we'll have that opportunity in postseason play. 

 Q.  Marneshia, they made that run in the second half, you guys were up by three or four, then they were up by six.  What was the difference there? 
 MARNESHIA RICHARD:  Like Coach said, I guess we got a little lax and lost focus.  We turned the ball over and then we didn't fight back. 

 Q.  You guys dominated the boards particularly in the first half.  Were you concerned that you had such a lead and yet you were only up by one at the break? 
 TYSHEKA GRIMES:  We really base our game on -- we try to base our game on rebounding, and the offensive boards helped.  We really had a great rebounding game, I think.  By them being up by one, we felt like the rebounding -- offensive rebounding was a big part of it, but we had to stay consistent and we weren't really consistent towards the end of the game. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT