MLB EXPANSION DRAFT
November 18, 1997
Tony Saunders
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Tony, how much do you think Larry Rothschild had to do with your pick?   
 TONY SAUNDERS:  I think he had a lot to do with it, just because he knew me personally, and he also knew me on a professional level.  So he knew what he was getting into when he took me as a first pick.   
  
  Q.  Did you have any sense you would be the first pick going into today until they called you?  Did you know ahead of time and what was your reaction?   
 TONY SAUNDERS:  Actually I thought I was protected, because some of the newspapers down there were saying ‑‑ in Florida were telling me that I was protected and everything.  So actually I wasn't even home when the draft started.  Actually I was out at a mall, and somebody from the Marlin organization called me and that's how I was informed that I was taken as the first pick.   
  
  Q.  What do you think about being the first pick?   
 TONY SAUNDERS:  I was very excited.  At first you get that little bit of disappointment because just the fact that I wasn't one of the 15 protected from the  Marlins, but on the other hand it's a great opportunity for me going into Tampa Bay.   
  
  Q.  Tony, what do you know about David Nied and what do you know about what went wrong with him, he was the first pick in Colorado?   
 TONY SAUNDERS:  Actually I really don't know too much about him, because the last time this draft was on I was in rookie ball and that was my first or second season, so I really didn't get to pay too much attention on what happened at the Big League level, because I was concerned with myself and what I needed to do to get myself to the big leagues.   
  
  Q.  Is it a little less painful to leave knowing that the Marlins are gunning their payroll?   
 TONY SAUNDERS:  Not really.  It's going to be tough to leave because I've been with the Marlins since '92, since their first season.  That's the only organization I've been with.  For me to go into a new environment, it's going to be tough for me, but I think it's going to be an easier adjustment, just for the simple fact that Tampa Bay is also a new team.  It's not going to be that tough adjustment for me to make.   
  
  Q.  Tony, do you expect to compete for a spot in the starting rotation?   
 TONY SAUNDERS:  As far as next year where  I'll be, I'm not too concerned about that.  I'm just going to go into Spring Training with the attitude I have to fight for everything, and that's the type attitude I had last year, and it seemed to work for me, that's going to be the same attitude I'll take with me.   
  
  Q.  You said that Larry Rothschild knew what he was getting, would you sum up to us what the they're getting?   
 TONY SAUNDERS:  For me personally, I believe I'm a quality young left‑handed starter.  I believe in myself that I can go out there every five days and give my team an opportunity to win.  And that's what I believe, and that's what I go out to try and do every five days is give my team the best opportunity to win a baseball game.   
  
  Q.  How happy are you to be reunited with Larry Rothschild?   
 TONY SAUNDERS:  It's a great feeling.  I'm going to have to look at him in a different light now, because he's not a pitching coach, he's a manager. There's a different respect level, but as far as a personal level it's great because me and Larry have a great rapport with each other.  I'm happy, I'm looking forward to it.   
  
  Q.  How much effect has Larry had on your career,  and also Rick Williams, the pitching coach?   
 TONY SAUNDERS:  Well, I've known Rick Williams since the middle of my rookie ball year, so he's been with me every step of the way.  He's seen me grow up for the most part, and as far as Larry, Larry ‑‑ last year was my first year working with me, and as my first year in the big leagues he helped me out tremendously, because a rookie really doesn't know too much about what to do and how to carry himself.  Larry was always there to make sure I did what I needed to do when I needed to do it.   
  
  Q.  You mentioned you were out, did someone on the Marlins organization leave a message on your machine?   
 TONY SAUNDERS:  No, actually one of the front office people called my cell phone that I had and they ‑‑ and he told me over the phone.  And then I left the mall to come home.   
  
  Q.  This gives you a little niche in history, Tony, how would you describe that honor?   
 TONY SAUNDERS:  As being a first pick?   
  
  Q.  Yes.   
 TONY SAUNDERS:  It's a great honor.  Pretty much they're telling me that they wanted me before anybody, and for me personally that makes me feel  great, because to be the first pick I've obviously done something right, and they obviously see something in me that can help this organization win baseball games.   
  
  Q.  You had that shoulder surgery in '94 and you rehabbed in '95, do you feel like you're 100 percent now and continue to be?   
 TONY SAUNDERS:  Well, actually my surgery I had was on my left elbow, and as far as that, last year, I pitched the whole season healthy in the big leagues, and the season before that I pitched the whole year healthy in Double A.  So I've been two years removed from the surgery where I've had two successful seasons.  As far as my elbow surgery that's way behind me now.   
  
  Q.  Tony, you mentioned that you've had to fight all along for everything you've got.  You weren't drafted coming out of high school.  Is that kind of motivated you in your preparation and the way you attack the game?   
 TONY SAUNDERS:  Oh, yes, most definitely. When you're somebody the team don't have a lot of money invested in you get a rude awakening the first day you're in camp when you're sitting around with 12 pitchers and they tell five guys in ten rounds or less to stand up, and they stand up and say they're you're  starting rotation, that was my first taste of being in professional baseball.  And that's made me work even harder, just for the simple fact that I know I'm going to have to work for get where I want to be.   
  
  Q.  Tony, Glen Burnie is kind of a gritty, blue collar kind of place where no baseball players come out of.  What's it going to be in Glen Burnie tonight, do people still know you tonight, is it a miracle you survived that atmosphere?   
 TONY SAUNDERS:  Well, as far as Glen Burnie, I really don't know.  But I know in my household it's a good feeling, it's a happy feeling, and it is right, there's not been a lot of players that come out of here.  But hopefully the ones that have come out can set a standard for everybody who is here to follow, two great pitchers.  I know my house will be happy.   
  
  Q.  Somebody that's been with the Marlins, how disappointing is it to see what's happened with the Marlins this close after the World Series, the dismantling?   
 TONY SAUNDERS:  For me personally it's very tough.  They put this team together last winter to win, and that's what we did.  And it just seems like that's not enough for them.  We've done everything we needed to do and to go out and tear it apart the way they're  going to, it's a shame.  I'm happy to be just a part of that for one year, because that taught me a big lesson in winning, and I'm very fortunate to be in that light with those players.   
  
  Q.  This is a stupid local question, what mall were you at?   
 TONY SAUNDERS:  Columbia Mall.   
  
  Q.  Do you remember what store you were in at the mall and were you thinking about buying any Devil Rays merchandise today?   
 TONY SAUNDERS:  Actually I was walking around, I really wasn't in one store.  But now I'll probably have to go to the mall and take a look at my logo, at least, see what it's going to be.   
  
  Q.  Why did you go to the mall today?   
 TONY SAUNDERS:  Because I had to get Christmas pictures taken with my baby, that's why we went.  I didn't feel I had to be home to watch the expansion draft, because I thought I was protected.   
  
 TONY SAUNDERS:  Three and a half months.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT