ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
March 8, 2015
Trevor Penny
Sachithra Senankaye
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How close could you have got had Chandimal been able to play and if you can give us an update on his status?SACHITHRA SENANAYAKE: So far, I think he went by the trainer, and he'll be all right.  We will see, but at that moment he couldn't even run, so I think he'll be okay.Q. How close could he have got?SACHITHRA SENANAYAKE: Yeah, today he batted really well, so if he was there, Angelo and he could have chased that total easily, I think.Q. I think this is your first match today in this tournament.  How do you feel about that because you have to play such a tough game against Australia.SACHITHRA SENANAYAKE: Yeah, it was very tough.  Actually Australia is the best team in this World Cup, Australia and New Zealand, so this is my first experience in the World Cup, so I want to bowl pretty well.  I thought the wicket will help us, but unfortunately it's not.  The wicket was very good.  I'm disappointed in myself.  The thing is actually I wanted to bowl really well but I didn't.  I couldn't take any wickets.  Hopefully if I get another chance, I'll do it.Q. Do you think that both teams actually misread the wicket?  There didn't seem to be much spin on it, and I don't think all the spinners bowled their full quota of overs.SACHITHRA SENANAYAKE: Yeah, the thing it actually it was pretty dry wicket.  We thought it was turned, but it didn't, and Maxwell did the damage.  At that stage actually we couldn't use the spinners so we had to use the fastbowlers.Q. Sachithra, Sri Lanka have given away quite a few runs all the way through the tournament, especially in the back end of an innings.  Do you think the attack would be helped if an extra bowler had played?  What do you think about the combination of the team?SACHITHRA SENANAYAKE: Actually it depends.  We all know Malinga was bowling really well in the death overs, and in the last few matches, Suranga Lakmal and Thisara bowled really well.  So it depends if someone -- it's normally Dimal (phon) is the best bowler we have, so we had to find -- we have to change the plans and we have to do some new things for the death overs, I think.Q. Are you feeling a little hard done by with the number of injuries that you've had this tournament already?  I think two players out of the original 15 and then another one again today and Herath, as well?SACHITHRA SENANAYAKE: Yeah, it's unfortunate actually we missed Rangana Herath and now there is Chandimal, we lost Dimuth.  I think we're having a bad period in this World Cup.  But hopefully -- we are in the qualifiers anyway, so I think we'll be okay.Q. And just missing out on the top two spot as it stands at the moment, how much of a blow is that to your overall hope?SACHITHRA SENANAYAKE: Yes, actually we aren't worried about that thing.  The thing is we are already in the qualifier.  The first round match, it's all over now.  We have just one match.  Once the qualifiers start, that will be the World Cup.Q. Trevor, are you quite happy with the way things went out on the field, looking back on the previous two games?TREVOR PENNY: Yeah, I thought we fielded well.  It's always difficult when there's a lot of runs scored, a lot of boundaries, and sometimes you don't feel you're in the game, but we made some good run outs and some good catches, so yeah, pretty pleased with the fielding.Q. Sachithra, this is similar to India what happened in the last World Cup.  In 2011 there was a lot of talk about how half the team, or actually most of the team wanted to win the World Cup for a certain Sachin Tendulkar.  Is there a feeling in the Sri Lanka camp that you want to win this World Cup not just because you want to win it for Sri Lanka but also for two gentlemen, Mahela Jayawardene and Kumar Sangakkara?SACHITHRA SENANAYAKE: Yeah, actually after this World Cup we miss them very badly.  We know that Sangakkara is our legend and Mahela Jayawardene, so they are the most experienced players in Sri Lanka, so we had to do something for them. This World Cup will be the most important thing for us actually.Q. What's the feeling when someone like Maxwell is in that form and just hitting it all over the park?  Do you just feel a little helpless?SACHITHRA SENANAYAKE: Actually I feel so bad.  The thing is I should have been -- the way Maxwell is hitting, the players like Maxwell, AB, they are taking so many runs, but they are using -- if they are playing 50 balls they are easily getting 100 runs.  It's a very bad point for us, so we had to do something new for them.  It's hard.Q. Trevor, you seem to be doing a lot of fielding drills during your training.  Can you say that you are 100 percent happy with the commitment Lasith Malinga shows during those fielding drills?TREVOR PENNY: Definitely.  He's come back from a five-month layoff with a bad ankle.  The most important thing is that he can bowl for us and slowly get his fielding right and his fielding fitness right.  Yeah, with the doctors and physios and stuff, we're handling him just right.  Yeah, I'm pretty happy.Q. Trevor, as a fielding coach, can you explain what most of the people talk about the Sri Lankan fielding not up to the expectation during this tournament?TREVOR PENNY: Yeah, I'm very happy with the fielding.  The ground fielding, everyone is improving.  There's been the odd dropped catch here and there, which even Australia dropped a couple today, as well.  With the ball being hit very hard these days, the half chances, the fielders are more athletic, they're going for more catches, so there's going to be a few more half chances dropped. Yeah, I'm happy the way the guys are going, and we should be firing 100 percent by the quarterfinal.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT