AL DIVISION SERIES: TWINS VS YANKEES
October 5, 2019
Jorge Polanco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Jorge, did you get the steal sign last night, or was that you? If you did, how surprised were you, after three months without a steal, to be sent in that situation?
JORGE POLANCO: I get a sign from the manager last night, and I feel good. We didn't steal that many bases during the season, but it just, again, we need an extra base, and I think that was a good decision by the manager.
Q. How special has it been to play with Nelson Cruz?
JORGE POLANCO: Very special. It feels very special to play alongside Nelson. He's a great leader, a great human being, a great friend, and obviously a great player. So he brings a lot of things to the table. It's been very special.
Q. Speaking of the steals, but also to other situational things like bunts and other extra base plays like that, that has not necessarily been a focus for you guys this year, has there been an emphasis on that in practice or in drills or anything like that coming into this series?
JORGE POLANCO: We didn't do it too much during the season, but we still practice. We're still bunting. We're still doing the little things during practice in case you have to do it in important games like that. It doesn't matter if we didn't do it during the season, but we're still practicing.
Q. Jorge, you looked very comfortable in your two playoff games in Yankee Stadium. Did you have to develop composure, or are you just naturally a composed player?
JORGE POLANCO: I try to be calm during the biggest stage. I don't try to put too much pressure on myself. I'm trying to be focused, and I think that's how I look good.
Q. What did you learn during the process in 2018 that made you an All-Star player? And now you're in the playoffs and having a great season.
JORGE POLANCO: I've learned a lot through that process. I learned not to take the time for granted, and I think that's what helped me the most.
Q. Has it been a focus of yours at all to improve as a right-handed hitter over the last few seasons? If so, has there been any particular work that you've done in that sense?
JORGE POLANCO: It's always my focus to play from both sides of the plate. I just try do the same that I do from the left side, trying to do it from the right side because, as you know, we face a lot more right-handed pitchers. So I always try to do the same from both sides. That's how I try to keep in shape.
Q. Jorge, how big a thrill was it to hit the home run yesterday? And did that make you feel even more comfortable? Did that add to the lack of stress that you felt?
JORGE POLANCO: It was important for me to go out there and try to get a pitch to hit. I was looking to put the ball in play, and it helped me throughout the game, like you said, to feel better.
Q. Do the Twins look at -- when you come into Yankee Stadium, did you think we've got to score seven runs, we've got to score eight runs, just given the nature of the ballpark, the team you're playing and all that goes with it. Offensively, do you approach it like we need to think about scoring seven or eight runs or more?
JORGE POLANCO: We want to score 50 runs in every game. We always try to keep in front of the game, trying to score earlier, and go from there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT