CHEEZ-IT BOWL: OKLAHOMA STATE VS MIAMI
December 27, 2020
Bubba Bolden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. How do you view your season overall, the regular season, one game left and obviously some significant highlights you've had this year and obviously maybe there were some missteps in the secondary that we have seen on film and whatnot.  How do you assess the whole thing?
BUBBA BOLDEN:   Overall, I think the season was good.  On the whole, we definitely got better over time.  This was a very weird year for us.  Just to be able to be out here and be in this position, we are all grateful for it.  So I think overall, the season has been good and I'm looking forward to this game.
Q. How has the defense taken this week of practice, after obviously the last game was that regular season finale where the defensive performance was not when you guys wanted against UNC?
BUBBA BOLDEN:   I mean, we took it into accountability right after the game.  We got right back on it.  And I think this past week of practice has been actually very good.  We've been locked in and everyone is really taking this very seriously.
Q. Have you made a final decision about whether you're returning next season or possibly turning pro?
BUBBA BOLDEN:   No, I haven't made that decision yet.  I'll probably talk over with my family after this next game but right now I'm just focused on this game.
Q. If you could give an evaluation of the young safeties, how they have developed throughout the year, and just overall your thoughts on maybe the progression you saw with those guys over the year.
BUBBA BOLDEN:   I think they progressed a lot, especially missing out on the spring, which is really like that time for them to really lock in and learn.  I think they came a very long way, especially this week, you get a lot more reps.
So I think they came along way, and next season, they should elevate their game to the next level.
Q. Talk about what you see in this Oklahoma State offense.  I talked to your defensive coordinator.  Obviously a team that wants to run the football.  And for that, that means you probably may spend extra time in the box coming up, playing close to the line of scrimmage.
BUBBA BOLDEN:   Was that the whole question?
Q. Yeah, that's the whole question.
BUBBA BOLDEN:   They have got some great players on their offense.  I have actually played with Tylan Wallace, the receiver, at the Nike Open when we were in high school.
They have got some good players, and you know, we done scheme some things up for them.  So it's a four-quarter game, so we've just got to come with our A Game.
Q. Your impression of overall how important this game is, especially considering it's hard to forget that last game.  Just what does it mean to win a Bowl game?
BUBBA BOLDEN:   That's the biggest goal.  I don't know, I couldn't tell you the last time, you know, Miami has won a Bowl game.  So this is very -- we take this very personally, and after the last game's performance, that was not the Miami way.  That was not how we play football, especially on the defensive side.
So we are coming into this game with a lot of fire, I'll tell you that right now, and we're going to come out and that's what's going to happen.
Q. The other thing is, after looking at the film and thinking about it, and I know Manny Diaz said you guys talked a lot about it the last game.  What happened to you guys?  It was more than physical.  It looked like nobody was playing really.  What happened, do you think?
BUBBA BOLDEN:   It was a team -- it was a full team loss.  You can't point one finger at one body.
So, you know, we just -- we got to take that one to the chin and just keep pushing.  That's in the past.  Can't really go back and do anything about it.  We are all focused on this game coming up and we are excited about this opportunity.
Q. I was wondering what your reaction was to the D'Eriq news yesterday that he's coming back.  Were you surprised by that?  Did you see it coming?  And what was kind of the reaction in the locker room to that news?
BUBBA BOLDEN:   I mean, everybody is definitely excited about that.  He kept his information on the low, so like, you know, it was kind of surprising to see.  But he wants to be great.  He wants to win.  He wants to come here and break records and do great things.  I'm excited for him.  I'm excited for this program and I think they are taking that step forward.
Q. We heard Zach McCloud has been practicing at defensive end.  Your reaction to watching him and what you see from him, and is this a move that could benefit him?  I know he's still going to play some linebacker but how can that play out for him?
BUBBA BOLDEN:   Zach, he's an athlete.  He can play wherever and adapt to his new surroundings.  Him moving to that position, you know, adds extra depth there and more -- a veteran-type player.  I think he could do great things moving forward if he sticks to that.  I could see him, you know, being our starter, honestly.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT