NITTO ATP FINALS
November 17, 2017
Jamie Murray
Bruno Soares
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MURRAY-SOARES/Kubot-Melo   
6-2, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Jamie, is that as well as you've played in a while?  
JAMIE MURRAY: Well, the best we played in two days (smiling).   
Look, we played great again.  We knew we'd have to play a really good match to bet Marcelo and Lucasz.  Yeah, we knew we were capable of doing it.  Obviously playing the way we did on Wednesday gave us a lot of confidence going into this match.  I mean, we played great again from start to finish really.   
 Q.  You've had two pretty comprehensive wins.  Did you talk about anything in particular after the first match, or just did things click anyway?  
JAMIE MURRAY: Well, we just said, We better win our next two if we want to keep going.   
Well, yeah, I mean, that was the good thing about this tournament for us.  Obviously we had a bit of a blip in the first match, but normally you'd be going home.  We had the opportunity to make amends for that and still progress in the tournament, which we've done by winning two really good matches.   
I think we both are looking forward to playing on the weekend.   
 Q.  You had some spasms with your back earlier in the week.  Have you had any repeat of that?  
JAMIE MURRAY: I mean, it's better.  I mean, I wasn't really aware of it so much when I was playing.  I didn't practice yesterday.  Just got treatment.  So, yeah, I'm happy with where it's at.   
It's not always, like, that comfortable, but it's not really affecting me playing, so...   
 Q.  Another sudden death match.  How do you see the semis, the matchup you have now?  
JAMIE MURRAY: Well, it's going to be tough again, obviously.  We lost to them twice this year, both in tiebreaks, close matches.  I mean, they're a power team, big serves, having cracks at returns.  It's not like you get a lot of rhythm playing against them.   
In saying that, I think both matches we did a pretty good job of kind of getting balls in play, you know, winning points on their serve.  We pretty much did everything except win really.   
I think, you know, we know we can do it.  It's going to be a difficult match, obviously.  But I think after the two matches we played here, I don't see why we should be worried about going to play them or anything like that.   
 Q.  You have real momentum now, haven't you, after these last two matches?  
JAMIE MURRAY: Yeah.  But it's doubles:  it can change fast.  Last year we won all three matches in the groups, then we got smoked in the semifinals.  It can happen like that sometimes.  We've got to be ready for that.   
I think we're feeling good about our game.  We've been playing a lot of good tennis the last few months.  Hopefully got two more matches left.   
 Q.  Bruno, given the choice, would you have preferred to have played Harrison and Venus in the semis than Peers and Kontinen?  
JAMIE MURRAY: It's the same team (laughter).   
BRUNO SOARES: We couldn't choose any more, given the fact with the alternate.  But not really.  I think when you overthink the situation, you end up playing worse.  If you think too much about who you playing tomorrow, you might not come back tomorrow, you might lose today.   
So, I mean, for me, I'm not really into that 'what's better next' before playing my match.  I mean, they beat them.  You never know, these guys, they zoned in Paris, won the tournament.  They've been winning here.  Big team.   
For us, whatever comes.  Just happy to be playing on the weekend.   
 Q.  A year ago when you qualified, was there any thought, If we lose this one, we might have the easier semifinal of the two?  
BRUNO SOARES: Yeah, I mean, you can definitely think about that.  It can affect you.  I think the group that plays last, for example, Marcelo, he knows his situation.  If he wants to choose, he can choose.   
But I don't think anyone is doing that because, I mean, you're putting 200 points and some good money on the line.  I don't think it's worth it to risk that because everyone that's here is playing pretty good tennis.  The teams that qualify, it's because they doing something right.   
For me, on my view, it's not worth to risk it what you can get right now for what you might have tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT