NITTO ATP FINALS
November 15, 2017
Jamie Murray
Bruno Soares
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MURRAY-SOARES/Dodig-Granollers   
6-1, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Jamie, I don't know if you knew before the match that you basically had to win it to stay in the competition.  
JAMIE MURRAY: Yeah, yeah.   
 Q.  It doesn't come down to sets or anything like that.  Did you know?  
JAMIE MURRAY: Well, yeah, Kubot and Melo won.  If we lost, we could only get one rubber, and the Bryans could get two.   
 Q.  Did that help before the match in terms of mindset?  You seemed to be firing from the start.  
JAMIE MURRAY: To be honest, I didn't really think about it.  I mean, like Bruno said, once we lost that match, we knew we'd have to win both matches have a chance.   
Now it's a normal tournament.  If we win, we keep going forward.  If we lose, we're on holidays.   
Look, we played a great match.  We've got a good chance on Friday to progress further in the tournament.   
 Q.  What was the treatment on the court?  
JAMIE MURRAY: My back, yeah.  It was like a spasm or joint or something.  It's sore now.  Go and see the physio afterwards.   
 Q.  Is that a new thing?  
JAMIE MURRAY: Yeah, just felt it come on during the match.  When we broke the second time, the second set, I hurt it more.  Yeah, it's sore now.  It's like a spasm or something, so...   
Hopefully they sort it out.   
 Q.  Is that something you've had before, an experience of spasms at all?  
JAMIE MURRAY: A few a long time ago.  Not for a long time.   
 Q.  Obviously the next match is a must win.  What are your thoughts on facing them, especially given the way they finished the year?  
JAMIE MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, we played them quite a few times this year.  It's always been close.  Two of the matches have been close.  Look, it's going to be difficult.  They played a lot of great tennis since, like, March, won a bunch of tournaments, obviously feeling confident with their game.   
I think we're a great team.  If we play our best, I think we're better than them.  We might not win, but I'm still going to back us.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT