NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BRUINS v CANUCKS
May 31, 2011
Mark Recchi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Mark Recchi. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 MARK RECCHI: Oh, no. BC still feels like home. Obviously Kamloops, that is my home. My family is still there. It's a wonderful place to grow up. It's pretty neat getting back there when I can. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 MARK RECCHI: Yeah, it is exciting. Obviously having a Canadian team in the Stanley Cup finals is wonderful as well. I'm a hockey fan, too. It's great to have that. This is a great opportunity, easy for my family to get down here instead of traveling all over the place. It's a great city to come to and be around. We're excited about it. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 MARK RECCHI: They're excited. They're more excited about me playing in the finals, period, than who I'm playing against. They just see it as another great opportunity to win a Stanley Cup. So they're not too worried about who we're playing. 
 But it's exciting. Like I said, it's easy for them to get to. We all grew up Canuck fans. Obviously I grew up watching Stan Chmiel, that group of guys there, when they went to the finals, King Richard, all that. I was a big fan growing up. Fun times, for sure. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 MARK RECCHI: It does, yesterday's practice, today's practice, to really embracing this. You might never get a chance to do this again, have fun with it, just soak it all in as much as you can. 
 We know we have to get back into our bubble starting tonight and tomorrow, but get all the things we need to get taken care of by the end of tonight, then focus on what we have to do as a hockey team. 

 Q. (Question regarding Vancouver's style.) 
 MARK RECCHI: They're a great team, have a lot of weapons, a great goaltender, and they're very well-coached. It's going to be a battle. I think we got two very similar teams. I think it's going to be a fun, tremendous challenge for both teams really. Who is going to be willing to give all that extra to win is going to come out Stanley Cup champions. 
 It's just exciting getting here and having the opportunity. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 MARK RECCHI: There's lots of guys. On both sides there's lots of guys that could be an X factor in this series. That's why both teams have gotten this far. Obviously your top players have to play well. At the same time, you know, they're not always going to play great. It's when you have other depth players on your hockey club come up big, that's what gets you to the Stanley Cup. 
 Everybody is important now. You need basically five lines and eight defensemen to get to this point. If you don't have that, you're not going to get to this point. 
 Both teams have done a wonderful job of it, had guys come in and fill in a void. If other guys aren't playing well, the other guys have stepped up. That's important. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 MARK RECCHI: My mom told me today. 

 Q. What has it meant to you to have that kind of support over the years? 
 MARK RECCHI: Yeah, absolutely. '06, I had a big gap in between '91 and '06. I was very fortunate I won a World Juniors when I was 19. I won a minor league championship when I was 20, then the Stanley Cup when I was 22, around that age. Then I had a big lull. I was fortunate enough to win the World Championships for Canada in '97. '06 was a long time. 
 '91, I was young and thought you could win every year, I'd be successful everywhere. All of a sudden you have a big gap. You learn to appreciate it. 
 The biggest thing for me is in '06, I was able to watch and enjoy and see the guys' reactions, see how they're handling things. I could sit back and really just enjoy it that much more. 
 It's the same thing now. All year long I've been able to watch the growth of our hockey club from day one at training camp, how guys have handled things, how guys have handled the pressures, some of them with new experiences. It's been so much fun for me. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT