DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN
February 15, 2011
Patty Schnyder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. SCHNYDER/A. Ivanovic
  4-6, 7-6, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Patty.   
  
  Q. Happy with that?   
 PATTY SCHNYDER: Yeah, it's true, I mean, especially like the way I came back and I stuck to my game plan. I couldn't really execute at all in the first set and a half, I guess.   
 Yeah, she's such a tough player. She puts a lot of pressure with her serve. It's like up and up, but when it's in it's really big weapon. Yeah, just tried to play the rally the way I wanted, and actually at the end I had really many rallies tonight.   
  
  Q. When her serve started to falter towards the end, I mean, it became quite apparent, did you think this is your time to sort of really close it out and put pressure on the second serves?   
 PATTY SCHNYDER: I mean, her serve was always up and down. She gave me a lot of double faults as well in the first set. But I just, like I said, my feet felt kind of slow. I didn't -- couldn't play the rallies from the back the way I wanted.   
 So, yeah, but when her serve is in she hits the lines and it's coming quickly. So it's just a risky serve. But, yeah, you have to make the points when it's not as good. So it's not easy to stay that focused and, yeah, play that consistent.   
  
  Q. She had some issues with her breathing.   
 PATTY SCHNYDER: Yeah, I mean, I didn't feel too comfortable, because she came back -- she saved those set points I had great with great strokes. She finished the game really strong.   
 So I said -- I didn't know what to expect in the tiebreak, but she gave me two points in the beginning and she started to argue. Yeah, I mean, she fell apart a bit.  
 But of course she knew she had that third set, so I guess she was still confident to come back and find her game and, yeah, win that match.   
  
  Q. How are the conditions out there?  
 PATTY SCHNYDER: Generally the conditions are tough here. It's kind of like fast hard court. I mean, I like it, but now we have so many slow hardcourts that it's not easy to get used to it.   
 The wind is turning around luckily at night. It's not that heavy. And also the ball, sometimes it's just flying and sometime they stick in your acquet. It's not really, really -- it's not easy to get a good first-round match here.  
  
  Q. Ana is seemingly intent on getting back to where she was in the past. Bearing that in mind, are you surprised perhaps that you were able to win tonight, that, again, it's another early exit for her?  
 PATTY SCHNYDER: Yeah, I mean, I thought she had her game back like end of last year. But, I mean, obviously the competition is tough on the women's side. She just cannot around to let go 10% of her game. Then everyone is all over her as well.  
 So for everyone it's tough to get back.   
  
  Q. What do you think about this tournament? You have a lot of the top 10 players, I think eight of the top 10 are here. What do you make of your chances?  
 PATTY SCHNYDER: Oh, this is a tough one. I mean, my ranking dropped as well. Tough first round, so I'm still lucky to be going.   
 Hopefully I can play even better the next match, and then we'll see. But I cannot think too much ahead in the draw.  
  
  Q. The television commentators seem pretty delighted in announcing your age. Does that bother you?  
 PATTY SCHNYDER: I have no problem with it. I can look back on a great career, so many years. It's just, yeah, amazing how time passes.   
 But, yeah, I know what I achieved, and I'm so happy that I could be part of so many great players, such a great era, and could be among the top athletes of the world.   
 So I feel really proud of my age, and all the things I achieved.  
  
  Q. I think you've get Jie Zheng. Many battles with her in the past?  
 PATTY SCHNYDER: I think it's the first time we're going to play. Definitely more rhythm than what I had today, but a great competitor as well. She won't give up any rally. She just hangs in there.   
 Coming back from injury, she's full of energy, I guess. It's going to be tough to finish the points against her.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT