AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 23, 2006
Patty Schnyder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  You reached the semifinal two years ago, quarterfinal last year.  How is your form compared with those previous two years now?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  Oh, it's tough to say.  I think I have like from last year more confidence coming into it.  Definitely feel great on the court.  I mean, winning everything in two sets, really dominating from the baseline.  Yeah, I just take it as it is.  I stay focused for the next one, and we'll see. 
 
Q.  What is the key to this good form?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  It's a lot of, lot of work.  It's many years you just work out, you improve -- try to improve every day.  Yeah, like I said, last year gave me a lot of confidence.  Even though I didn't play my best the tournaments before, like in the Gold Coast or Sydney, I just can come back with a big event, yeah, the big stage to get my game back and play good tennis.  
 
Q.  Having compatriot Martina Hingis playing so well in her comeback, is that an incentive for you? 
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  Oh, it's just a lot of fun.  I mean, it's really a cool thing that she is going out there, trying it again.  I'm really happy for her that she's doing so well, especially here in Melbourne.  Yeah, I mean, we got along really well.  It's just nice to have some Swiss on the road.  
 
Q.  You play Mauresmo next.  Obviously a tough opponent. 
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  Of course.  I mean, it doesn't get any easier, for sure.  Just try to get the tactics against her and then, yeah, go for it.  You never know what's going to happen.  She's maybe a little favorite.  But I think I have a shot.  
 
Q.  Tell us about going to the aquarium yesterday. 
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah, it was fun.  It was just very exciting, just diving in the tank with the sharks and the big stingrays and the mantas.  It's a great world there.  I love it.  
 
Q.  You practiced with Martina on the Gold Coast, and before that?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah, a little bit.  We hit a few times in December in her mom's indoor court, and once in the Gold Coast.  
 
Q.  Are you surprised or did you expect her to do how she's done so far?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  For me, it was hard what to expect.  I mean, I knew that she's like striking the ball unbelievably well.  She's not missing.  She has like the eye like when she was winning the Slams.  I also had some question marks about her fitness and about her just coming back and competing like day after day and getting the focus.  Yeah, obviously she's handling it, yeah, incredibly well.  
 
Q.  Would you rather Roger and Martina not be there so there's more focus on you, or is it better like this for you?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  No, it's all right.  I mean, it's just nice seeing the Swiss so successful in tennis.  It's a great thing also for me.  I just try to do my things and go for my career, and there is also a lot of, yeah, like booming in Switzerland for tennis.  It's not only like being a little bit in the background, but it's also taking a lot of focus on the sport generally.  
 
Q.  It looked like you were sort of picking on Myskina's backhand a bit.  Did you see a weakness there?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  It's kind of my game.  I know if I mix it up, like either her forehand and backhand can break down a little bit.  That's what happened.  So, yeah, I just felt comfortable like going to her backhand because it favors my forehand cross-court, which is my best shot.  So, yeah.  But I could always have changed it.  I mean, I feel pretty good from the back.  
 
Q.  What do you have to do against Mauresmo to do well?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  I have to think about first because, I mean, I always try to go for one match at a time.  Yeah, definitely I have to serve well.  I mean, she doesn't really like the lefty serve, I know.  But she's a great athlete.  I mean, you really have to make the points twice, like we saw today.  She's really getting the balls back, really good defense.  Yeah, we'll see what's going -- how the game's going to develop.  Definitely have to, yeah, serve well and stay with her serve.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT