TELECOM MASTERS ITALIA
May 15, 2005
Patty Schnyder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Patty, please.


Q.  Terrific tournament, Patty.

PATTY SCHNYDER:  Thank you.


Q.  Very good.

PATTY SCHNYDER:  Thank you (smiling).


Q.  What was the difference?

PATTY SCHNYDER:  I guess she's, yeah, a great clay court player.  And at the end it was -- she was a little too powerful, I think.  Her spin was really, yeah, giving me a lot of problems, and I could not really play the game I wanted at the end. But, still, I had the chances and she saved some great breakpoints with great serves.  Shows she's a real champion, and today she deserved to win.


Q.  She says you're one of the people who could win Paris.  How do you feel?

PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah, I think so, too.  But she's definitely also one that can win.  I mean, it's gonna be a really interesting Roland Garros.  So many favorites.  And I'm really looking forward to it.


Q.  Did you possibly overdo the dropshots?

PATTY SCHNYDER:  Could be, yes.  It's just she was running very good, she keep me way off the baseline with her shots and I didn't really feel how I could hit the winner.  So I tried them, and, yeah, now I think it was a little too much probably.  But you never know.


Q.  This is a special tournament for you for several reasons.  You went three sets with the defending champion.  This is the first time you're now back in the Top 10 after seven years...


Q.  I think it's seven.


Q.  Six or seven years.  Is it possible -- because you beat the No. 1 seed yesterday, Maria Sharapova, in a fascinating game using your strengths against her strengths, your strengths against her weaknesses.  So these are the reasons.  But I want to ask you this question:  If you had Door No. 1 and you could have your dream this year, this could be your dream year, 2005, you could become No. 1 in the world for a few weeks; Door No. 2, you win a Slam.

PATTY SCHNYDER:  I want to win a Slam (smiling).


Q.  I've seen you sometimes when you've played very well and then just come apart at the end.  You had a streak a few years ago, I guess.  Do you feel now you're a better fighter than you've ever been?

PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah, I mean, I've always been a fighter.  But somehow when I didn't believe in myself, it looked like I was giving up and I didn't want the victory. But now that I believe more in myself and my tennis, it's, yeah, it looks much better for me, and also like the people feel different about my attitude.


Q.  Did you do something special for your physic condition, because I never seen you so fit like now?

PATTY SCHNYDER:  No, I've been very fit the last - I don't know - two or three years.


Q.  Very fit?

PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah, very fit.  I'm doing the things - of course I work out a lot, I do all the things I need to do to be fit because it's one of the key points of my game.  So I really need it.


Q.  Did it bother you when Amelie contested that point?

PATTY SCHNYDER:  No, I know that she's a really fair player and she just -- she has her reason why she did this.  She really believed the ball was out.  That's just -- I mean, she was on a run there, and so I just played.  And that time I was really -- like she was doing the game and I was a little bit shaky.


Q.  Things are going very well now, it's nice to see.  Do you date all this from your marriage?  Is that a springboard?

PATTY SCHNYDER:  It looks like, but we have been very, very happy together before our marriage, and now also.


Q.  Well, from the beginning.  When was that, though?  I know the marriage was 2003.

PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah, December 2003.  We are together now six years.  So, I mean, we have a great time.  Of course it gives me a lot of power, a lot of energy.  Just it's a great, great thing.


Q.  What about Mauresmo, do you see anything different in her this year?  She's done well here so many years now, but she hasn't been able to translate it into the French Open.  What do you see from her going into the French?

PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah, I mean, I think she always goes into the French as a favorite, and she never comes past I don't think quarters. So I don't know what it takes for her to play her best there, but it's definitely a difficult thing for her.  But, yeah, I just hope that she, you know, she can do it once.


Q.  I saw you on a cover of a magazine or a big photo with the other Swiss who won today - what's his name?- Roger Federer.  What do you think about Roger stepping up and being one of the first guys to be ambassadors for the sport, like Andre Agassi, and supporting the United Nations and UNICEF?  And while you're thinking, this is a quote that the spokesman for UNICEF said during an exhibition Roger Federer set up in Indian Wells:  "We are excited to be part of a global partnership aimed at harnessing the power of pro tennis to help ensure kids everywhere get help, education, and protection."

PATTY SCHNYDER:  So what do I think about this sentence?


Q.  I'm sorry.  The question is, do you think it would be cool if the WTA tennis stepped up and had a partnership like that?

PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah, I know that Martina is doing things also.  We all do a lot of charity.  It's just, yeah, your own decision how much you want to help, where you want to help, if you want the public to know everything, or if you just want to donate as a silent donator. I think it's a great thing if like a sportsman or like from the music business, if they get involved and help, yeah, the needed ones.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT