TELECOM MASTERS ITALIA
May 14, 2005
Patty Schnyder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Patty, please. 
 

Q.  Do you consider this one of the best wins of your career considering that she's aiming to become No. 1 in the world?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yes, of course it's one of my best wins, and definitely she deserves to be No. 1.  She's a great champion.  I just took a chance on clay court.  I think it's her weakest surface.  I played a great game and could win today.  I'm very happy about that. 
 

Q.  What do you think was the difference between the two of you?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah, I think once the rally went on, I was the dominant player.  I move better on clay court than she does, but you have to be really careful.  She can hit the winner out of every position.  So sometimes it doesn't help if you move really well, because a winner is going to hit you anyway. But still at the end that was the key, that I could play better the rallies from the back. 
 

Q.  Inside yourself do you think is a surprise, this result, or no?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  No, not really.  I mean, I really believe in myself, especially on the clay, and I know that I can beat the top players - I've beaten some No. 1s, I've beaten most of the players on tour.  But, still, you still have to do it every week and every day, basically, and that's the challenge. I'm just very proud today, how the way I started - I was really tight, my legs were not moving at all.  And that I could come back and play such a great final set, I'm really proud of today. 
 

Q.  You said you were tight in the first set.  Were you afraid she would overpower you?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  No, I just probably more -- for me, it was also about ranking.  I can be in the Top 10 again.  So for me, that's special.  For her, probably the No. 1. Yeah, sometimes it makes you a little bit tight.  Also, I think it's also a little bit of tired in the mind also because I played so many matches and I've come from the States, I only had three days at home, then I went on to Warsaw and to Berlin and I keep playing and playing.  So I guess sometimes it's not easy to start really good. 
 

Q.  You think she has noticed that you are a left-handed player?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  You have to ask her, but I think she does.  She does notice (smiling). 
 

Q.  Do you think that this year you are playing your best tennis ever?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah.  Also the beginning of last year I played great tennis, but I had some injuries and that put me back a lot.  So I'm back again and I'm playing definitely the best now.  And I'm just so happy.  I wish that I can go on like this some more months - maybe years (smiling).  I'm just very happy. 
 

Q.  What do you think you need to support your talent:  More concentration, more shape, what?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  I mean, what else do you want?  I mean, tell me, what can I do better?  I don't really know.  I mean, I'm not a powerful player, I'm not 190, I don't have these muscles.  You can tell me.  I am happy if you have some magic tricks (smiling). 
 

Q.  Your husband is your coach.  What has been his greatest influence in your game?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  Just he believes so much in me and my tennis.  That gave me so much security and confidence also.  We talk a lot about tactics.  I mean, that's -- he always has a good tip.  We talk a lot about other players also, so that helps me a lot.  I know that on the court, like the strokes, I can feel myself.  So that's a great combination. 
 

Q.  Amelie Mauresmo and yourself, you know each other very well.  What are you expecting from tomorrow?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  I expect a great match.  I mean, there's gonna be some rallies.  She moves really good.  She loves the court here; me, too. So, yeah, I don't worry too much because I just gonna be out there and play and give it the best I can. 
 

Q.  Even if you don't have big muscles, tonight you served 187 kilometers per hour and you scored quite a few aces.  Does it happen often, or you can serve even faster than that?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  No, I think this clock or this measure is a little bit high, I have to say (laughing).  I noticed.  Some case less, I guess. But, no, I mean, I'm working out in a gym also - probably more than the taller ones - and I'm trying to serve hard and keep up with them.  Yeah, I give my best all the time (smiling). 
 

Q.  Can you compare yourself in '97 here and now?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  Oh, it's a long time ago. I think I got more power definitely and probably also a better serve to the forehand off the right-handers.  So it means from the deuce, the ad side to the forehand, and on the ad side into the middle.  I guess I improved also those serves.  And the kick has always been a good weapon, but I guess it's also little bit faster and more kick, so, yeah.  But I don't really know. 
 

Q.  What's your feeling to have a unique tennis in this tennis which is so mechanical, so strong?  You are very unique.  What do you think about that?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah, I just -- that's the way I play.  That's the way I want to play.  So I just practice that way, and I think it's a good weapon against some power tennis. But I don't really think too much.  I just enjoy my tennis, and I see that people enjoy watching it.  So, yeah, it makes me happy. 
 

Q.  Are you proving that Martina Hingis was wrong to quit tennis because she thought that the other girls were too powerful?  I mean, of course she had also some physical problems.
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah, I mean, she achieved so much in her career.  She had some injuries, like you said.  So that was her decision. I think she's a great champion.  I don't know if she wants to come back or not, but it doesn't look like.  I think she loved the game a lot and, yeah, she's retired now. 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT