AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 26, 2005
Patty Schnyder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.


Q.  How did you find the heat out there?  Did that have a major effect on the match?

PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah, I think it has on everybody.  But it's for everyone the same.  Yeah, I was -- of course I was tired at the end, but I was not close to like, yeah, cramping or just tired.  I could not really move anymore, really fast anymore.  So that's -- I could, yeah.  So that's why I could not go for the shots, because I didn't see it early enough and I couldn't really move fast to the ball.

Q.  Didn't help because there was a lot of long points and long games as well? 

PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah.  That was okay.  But like I said, I could not go fast anymore. 

Q.  Were you disappointed?  You had a lot of breakpoint opportunities. 

PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah, yeah.  I think it was a very lucky win for her.  I think I should have won the first match easier, but she saved them.  So, yeah, that's the way it was today.  I was lucky two days ago, and now she was lucky.

Q.  So you're disappointed that this was an opportunity you failed to make?

PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah, of course.  I mean, I don't know, I made about the fifth set point in the first and I missed I think another five breakpoints for sure.  So, yeah.  I was on top of her but still it was only 7-5.  Also in the third, I had -- I wasn't winning my serve easily until the end.  She struggled more than me.  So just the way sometimes it's not working out. 

Q.  Were you disappointed it happened to be playing on Margaret Court arena?

PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah, of course.  I would love to play in Rod Laver.  Getting really like many spectators for a quarterfinal.  But that's just the way it is here.  Yeah, you have to be in the semis to be on Rod Laver again. 

Q.  You had a lot of supporters out there.  Did the lack of atmosphere make it more difficult to really get up into the match? 

PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah, I mean, that's why we are playing tennis for, to have the great experience on centre court, to really get people into the matches.  Of course, I wish to have many more matches on big centre courts, of course. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT