US OPEN
September 5, 2004
Patty Schnyder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  First question for Patty, please. 


Q.  Looked like when she broke you in that seventh game, you started losing the range a little bit on your shots.  Was it her picking up her play, or did you just fall off a little bit?

PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah, I mean, it was a little frustrating how she was serving.  So, I mean, I need to really keep up, yeah, and try to go for all the serves.  So I was really frustrated because I felt like if you had some more rallies from the back, I could find the game and you could have some good rallies, and I would be able to, yeah, level the game with her from the baseline.  But it was never possible the way she served.  So I was a little frustrated.  Yeah, didn't help me, yeah, get the good focus on my game.  Yeah, it shouldn't happen like this, but, I mean, she was too good today. 

Q.  Is that the best she served against you in all the times you played her?

PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah, I think so. 

Q.  What did you take away from this particular match?  What do you feel you need to do to improve, because you're going to be meeting Serena Williams again. 

PATTY SCHNYDER:  When she serves that well, I will never be able to make a break.  If she serves like this, it's hard for anybody.  I'm always telling, if I want to win, it's like she has to play like less than hundred percent.  So that's the first thing.  I mean, it was a pity for me that it was that cold and windy.  I mean, I don't like those conditions.  I love to play in the heat.  Yeah, so, I mean, just everything.  If I want to beat her, really everything has to go my way, the way I feel.  It's just very few times that that can happen. 

Q.  What you saw from her today, is that level good enough for her to go on and win the tournament if she plays like that?

PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah, I mean, still I think it's a little too many unforced errors from the back.  She didn't need to, yeah, play better from the back because her serve was that good.  So that was enough for her today.  But she's a real champion to step up all the time.  Even with her groundstrokes, she will always be able to play better from the back. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT