US OPEN
September 3, 2004
Patty Schnyder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Patty.


Q.  You had to fight really hard in the end.  How does it feel?  Can you talk about that lob you hit at 5-3.  A really huge shot.

PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah, I mean, I think we had a funny match today.  We had some games we didn't play at all.  Some we served good and we hit some great winners.  It was a strange match. Also in that tiebreak, she hit three lines unbelievable, and then me with a little bit of frame, that lob.  Yeah, it's just -- I don't know how.  Yeah, sometimes things like this happen and you get exciting matches.  Saving match points and winning after, it's just a great win for me.


Q.  You had a really good Australian Open.  What is it about majors that seem to bring out some of your better tennis?  Do you get up more for the majors?

PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah.  I mean, I'm really motivated for the majors.  It's really the highlight of the year.  I've been playing great tennis since last year US Open until April.  I was really playing very good.  I won against many Top 10 players.  I reached the semis in Australia. So, yeah, I had a great run.  Now it seems to come back.  Yeah, I'm feeling good again.  I could use my seeding again and be in the last 16, so I'm very happy.


Q.  What do you expect from your next round?

PATTY SCHNYDER:  Serena is playing tonight.  Yeah, probably she's going to win.  So, yeah, I didn't play her for a long time, but actually I prefer playing Serena than Venus because I think Venus' backhand is better than Serena's.  So I try to play my game over her backhand.  I hope that she's not a hundred percent, and just give it my best shot.


Q.  You're very good at mixing up the spins, the height.  Is that some of what you'll do against her?

PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah, I'll try to.  Yeah, I mean, it would be great if I can play my game, but sometimes she's really on top of her opponent.  I try to, yeah, play my game and get the rallies I need and I like from the baseline.  Yeah, that's what I'm trying.


Q.  If you play the way you played today, do you think it will be good enough to beat her?

PATTY SCHNYDER:  Actually, I thought my tennis was bad today.  I mean, I had a good heart and great, yeah, fighting today.  So I think my tennis can only be better actually.  That's the way I'm going to go into my next match.  I have some doubles to play here tonight, tomorrow.  Of course, I'm not going to be that nervous.  That was also a key point.  I was too nervous again and I could not really handle that.


Q.  Is it a satisfaction even if your tennis wasn't up to the level you expected to have been able to stay in the game, because you were behind several times?

PATTY SCHNYDER:  No, it was definitely -- I mean, it's so easy to win if you play good, everything fits together.  It's really hard to stay calm and to focus on the next points, the next games.  I mean, it's a huge effort mentally that I made today.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT