AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 29, 2004
Patty Schnyder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  You had your chances there in the second set.  What is the emotion?  Are you angry, disappointed?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah, I mean, it was a very close second set.  I just -- I mean, I didn't have set points but I was really close.  Yeah, I mean, I could have won that set for sure and you never know what's gonna happen in the third.  So, I mean, yeah, I'm a little disappointed.  I think she played unbelievable good match.  How she came off and started the match, it was really impressive.  So I'm still happy to -- the way I played in the second and I could challenge her more.  
 
Q.  She went into the match with an injury.  Were you aware of that?  Did it change the way you played, your tactics?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  I mean, I knew that she could run.  I don't see much of an injury when she's running.  So I don't know.  I just focus on my game, my performance.  I don't think that was, yeah, was much of an injury.  
 
Q.  Does it feel like it's been a breakthrough tournament for you in some ways?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  I mean, it's the greatest tournament I've played.  For me, it's amazing to be in the semis.  Yeah, just to be there the last few days, I'm really happy.  Of course, I'm just after the loss now.  I, of course, want to win, I want to win the whole thing.  So I'm a little disappointed.  But my performance was all right.  You never know what's happen if you go on like this.  
 
Q.  Do you feel that your game has progressed or improved? 
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  I mean, I played good tennis since a long time.  I beat top players.  I just couldn't do it in a Grand Slam. So there is no reason that, yeah, I couldn't do it or cannot do it again.  So I am there, playing good tennis and, yeah, we'll see what's happening the next few Grand Slams.  
 
Q.  We've seen some nice variety in the semifinals with yourself and Zuluaga.  Do you think it's good for the sport when the same two players like the Belgians or Williams sisters always get to the finals of the Slams?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  They deserve to be there because they beat the other players.  Yeah, of course it would be nice to see one of the Williams back, probably in a final for you, or I don't know.  But we give our best, the other players.  There's always one year there's two or three dominating, but it will change also.  =And it's just like this last couple of Slams.  
 
Q.  What's next in your schedule? 
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  I don't know.  Normally I would go back to Europe and play in two indoors and go to the States.  But I'm just going to think about that and take some time off and, yeah, enjoy my success here.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT