PILOT PEN TENNIS
August 24, 2000
Patty Schnyder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Patty, you seemed to be playing pretty well early on, things kind of went downhill after that 4-3. 

PATTY SCHNYDER:  Think I played good from the baseline, from the beginning, could make a run.  I was not happy with my serve.  I think I tried to play her on the (inaudible*), and she has such good moves and it's very hard to make, pressure, with my serve and the return.  I could hold my serve and it was a lot of pressure on my serve.  And then, yeah, I think she played a little better at the end of the first set and then in the second.  Especially she was serving better.  And, yeah, it's really hard to beat her, and I tried.  And I think from the first set we played the same level, so I'm happy. 


Q.  Were you upset at the end of the first set because you felt like you had a chance? 

PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah, of course, I was up with break and serving 2, 5, 3 and I don't know, I just couldn't hold and couldn't keep up my groundstrokes like I wished.  So, yeah, I was unhappy and I just felt her serve becoming better and her groundstrokes I felt even more pressure in the second set.  So I could never like come back. 


Q.  Over all you happy with how you played this week? 

PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah, I think so.  It was a good week, and I'm well prepared for the Open.  


Q.  You looking forward to returning next year? 

PATTY SCHNYDER:  I think so, 


Q.  Good preparation for you? 

PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah, it depends a little on the schedule I make, and if I play California and hardcourts, I think I need a break before the Open.  If I do it like this time, play the Chase in Europe and come here for the Canadian, then I definitely play this one, too. 


Q.  What do you think you have to do to be able to beat Venus? 

PATTY SCHNYDER:  I think my serve has to become better.  I can serve very well, but it's not consistent.  So I have to work on that.  I mean, it's hard for me, I'm not that tall, not that strong, so to really have a consistent good serve, so, yeah, I need to work my timing. 


Q.  What do other players have to do to maybe (inaudible).  

PATTY SCHNYDER:  I mean, she's not in great form today.  I don't know how she can play her best.  It's hard to say.  I think Martina, Davenport, they can beat her, but she's a very tough player. 


Q.  You feel like she wasn't playing 100 percent today? Could you tell? 

PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah. 


Q.  Was there something off in her game you think she lost her concentration? 

PATTY SCHNYDER:  I don't know what she was feeling, but I think she can play with less errors, definitely, and she's just a good player and it's a preparation for her, too, so she wants to be at her top at the end of the U.S.`Open.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT