US OPEN
September 1, 1999
Patty Schnyder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. This is your first third round since the French; correct? 
 
 PATTY SCHNYDER: Yeah.  
 
Q. What does it mean to you, making it this far as you're trying to move back up the
rankings and kind of get your confidence back?
 
 PATTY SCHNYDER: It was all right, but Grand Slam, you have those tough opponents. Lisa,
she is a very tough opponent, like the other tournaments -- very tough to advance.  
 
Q. You had said, I think it was back in June or May that you were thinking about lots
of things and you were having some trouble with your confidence. How have you been able to
kind of get back from that?
 
 PATTY SCHNYDER: I think in practice I'm playing really good. I've got a lot of
confidence. Sometimes I have problems with my concentration during matches and I lose my
game and I have to get back in the game, so it gives me the confidence I need to beat very
tough players. And now I think I've played a good match and I hope that I can be the top
player again. 
 
Q. Do you know why you are losing concentration? Was it because of all the stuff going
on earlier in the year?
 
 PATTY SCHNYDER: I just was not that consistent, make some mistakes, I was thinking
about mistakes. Yeah, probably thinking too much. 
 
Q. Did your parents come here with you to New York?
 
 PATTY SCHNYDER: No. They didn't come to the States.  
 
Q. Are they coming to your tournaments again now?
 
 PATTY SCHNYDER: Yeah, Zurich for sure, Germany.  
 
Q. How does that feel for you? Is it nice to have them back?
 
 PATTY SCHNYDER: Yeah, it's nice.  
 
Q. Is there anything you can take -- you're 20 years old, you're growing more mature;
anything you can learn from your experience when you were being coached by Ranier (ph)?
 
 PATTY SCHNYDER: I think I needed to learn a lot from that, and as a tennis player, I
didn't take advantage of it, but as a person, I learned a lot. So far, everything went
really well and now I know how to deal with problems and solve them. I think it's really
easy to live and to play good tennis as well.  
 
Q. Do you have contact with him at all anymore?
 
 PATTY SCHNYDER: No.  
 
Q. So you're playing Aranxta next?
 
 PATTY SCHNYDER: Yes. 
 
Q. Have you beaten her before?
 
 PATTY SCHNYDER: Twice.  
 
Q. Where is your game against her, do you think?
 
 PATTY SCHNYDER: I know that she plays her opponent really hard. I have to play
consistently. I know she can handle my shots and my serve, but I need to play some good
match.  
 
Q. Do you have a certain goal for yourself where you'd like to be at the end of this
year?
 
 PATTY SCHNYDER: I mean, this year, I try to make the best of it now, but next year, I
hope to do better. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT