EVERT CUP
March 8, 1999
Patty Schnyder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  It looked like you weren't making particular shots, then made beautiful winners, and at other times mixing --? 
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  I tried to play  aggressive.  It's the only way to beat her.  And I made too many mistakes.  I was risking probably sometimes too much.  I just tried to go for the winners.  I missed a lot.  But I think I made her run a lot.  I was dominating a lot of the points, but I lost too much.  I think it was the best match here I played.  It's okay. 
 

Q.  Did you feel she was everywhere?  Unless you made an unbelievable shot, she was going to get it back?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah, she was running down all the balls.  She was reacting really well.  She could read my game a little.  She knew where I was playing.  She just played her game.  When I played too short, she attacked and made me run, so I really had to go for every shot. 
 

Q.  How would you compare this match to the other two you played with her, against her?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  I think she's a lot more confident now, and I'm less confident, so that's a big difference.  She's playing much better.  She's not missing that much.  So, yeah, that was the biggest difference, I think. 
 

Q.  Why do you think you were less confident than before?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  I think I had a hard time the last two months, just I couldn't work concentrated like I wanted to do it.  I just keep on doing the right things and working harder, then I think I get it all back. 
 

Q.  Has all the publicity upset your concentration as a player?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah.  I could not work quietly really on my own. 
 

Q.  Do you see that getting better and better, easier and easier?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah.  Now, for sure I can focus better on my work on court and off court.  I can handle the situation much better now. 
 

Q.  You obviously have a rivalry with Martina because you're both Swiss.  Is it a friendly one or not?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  No, I think it's really friendly because when we go on court we both want to win.  Doesn't matter if she's Swiss and I'm Swiss as well.  We go out on the court and try our best.  Went to win the match.  I want to come higher in the rankings and she wants to keep her No.  1 spot.  Yeah, we are professional tennis player and we think like that. 
 

Q.  Martina said she was not going to play Fed Cup this year.  Will you play?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah, I'm going to play. 
 

Q.  Did you know about this, that she wouldn't play?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah, since a long time. 
 

Q.  Do you socialize at all with one another?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah, we talk a lot when we meet each other.  We have lunch together, yeah.  
 

Q.  Apart from confidence, what do you think you need to get better at this stage?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  To make the easier shots.  When the opponent is running, to play aggressive and just win the point and not let it go.  
 

Q.  Tell me if I'm wrong.  I think it's probably the first time in your career that you're on the Tour without a coach.  Since you started on the Tour, you always had somebody with you. 
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  No.  Sometimes I went with my mother when it was over with the coach.  I did it like that one or two times. 
 

Q.  Do you feel the need to always have tennis advice, somebody to tell you what you need to work on?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah.  I mean, I think you have a lot of friends who can help you to improve your game.  You can have tips from a lot of players and a lot of coaches.  I want to work now, yeah, quietly.  I see what's going to happen with the tennis coach. 
 

Q.  You mean, you have an idea of somebody you want to work with?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  No.  At the moment not.  I just let it happen. 
 

Q.  Do you think your new methods that you're trying, the diets and alternative medicine, will help you to become a better player?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah, for sure.  Otherwise I would be wouldn't do it. 
 

Q.  Have you been drinking a lot of orange juice?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  That's true. 
 

Q.  Some doctors say that it's injurious for young women to drink a lot of orange juice. 
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  I don't care.  
 

Q.  That it puts too much acid into the system and causes their complexions to become overly reddened. 
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  I don't really care.  I'm feeling really great on court.  My orange juice, I drink a lot in the morning and during the day. 
 

Q.  How much orange juice do you drink?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  A day, two or three liters. 
 

Q.  Is that the only thing you drink?  Not water?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah, water sometimes. 
 

Q.  What are you going to do between now and Key Biscayne?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah, practicing.  We have some friends here close by.  We're going to go there and play tennis and work. 
 

Q.  Do you mix anything with the orange juice?  Do you water it down?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  No, it's fresh squeezed.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT