EVERT CUP
March 7, 1999
Patty Schnyder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Looked like you played much better than the first match.  Is that your feeling? 
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah, I think so, too.  It was just the first three or four games I was not really in the match, then I started playing well.  Especially the second set was really good.  I could return her good serve and play aggressive on my service game, so I was really happy with the second set.  And the third set was all right also. 
 

Q. What did you know about her game before?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  Not much.  I was surprised that she had a one-handed backhand.  I didn't even know that.  But I heard that her serve was her best shot.  Yeah, she served really good. 
 

Q. It's a little bit difficult playing, you had a doubles match right next to you, people were getting up and moving around, cheering, is that kind of hard playing like that?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah, sometimes, if you see the balls going and the rallies over there.  I always tell myself, "If you really concentrated, you shouldn't notice it."   Yeah, I tried to concentrate on my court, my game, not to think about the other court. 
 

Q. What about the next match you play Martina tomorrow night.  Tell us how you see that match?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  It's always special to play the No.  1 in the world, yeah.  She's Swiss, so that's on top of it.  Yeah, I see how good I can play against her.  Normally I like her game.  We have a lot of good rallies.  It's really fun playing matches against her.  
 

Q. How confident do you feel?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  You never know.  It's like I'm going on court and I don't know what's going to happen.  So now I can play against a higher-ranked player.  It's another situation for me.  Yeah, I'm trying my best.  
 

Q. In a sense, is the pressure really off? 
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah.  I mean, I want to play a good game for myself, yeah.  I want to play good tennis, like I always want.  That's the way I go on court.  Tomorrow, as well. 
 

Q. How close to your best tennis do you feel you are?  Close or far?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  In practice I feel really confident.  I'm playing much better.  But during the matches, sometimes I lose completely my game.  I'm on the court wondering why my shots are not working.  I can work on a lot of things in my match.  
 

Q. Are you looking for a new coach?  Are you looking to hire a new coach in the near future?
 
PATTY SCHNYDER:  I don't know yet.  I just think about it.  Probably going to try something.  But I'm not sure yet what I'm going to do.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT