US OPEN
September 8, 1998
Patty Schnyder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Patty, for someone who loves to go for the lines, was the wind troubling you at all
today? 
 
 PATTY SCHNYDER: Yes, it was terrible to play in. At the beginning, was not that bad.
But it started to get really bad and she played so deep. I couldn't really find my game.
Then it got worse and worse. It was horrible. 
 
Q. Were you nervous this time? You weren't nervous against Steffi, it seems like. Did
you have more jitters this time?
 
 PATTY SCHNYDER: No, no. I was more nervous against Steffi than today. But, yeah, I just
started really slow and then she played really good and she didn't let me find my game. 
 
Q. Your year this year has been a good one, you won five tournaments. Everybody started
talking about you. What has been the difference between 1997 and 1998, and what have you
learned from the experience of getting so high in rankings?
 
 PATTY SCHNYDER: Yeah, it's -- everything went really quick this year, so I think I
still have to learn little things. And, yeah, just experience and to learn how to play the
different matches. But I think in '97 I was just -- yeah, I was constantly like I could
play two terms in a row really on a high level. And, yeah, I think my whole game was more
powerful. And my physical work we did last year, end of the year, paid off. So, yeah, I'm
a better player. 
 
Q. You said there were some things you had to learn; that everything happened so
quickly. What kind of things are you talking about?
 
 PATTY SCHNYDER: Yeah, I mean two matches -- I mean to play good when it is important.
So just to be prepared, to go so far in the tournaments and then to play the best. 
 
Q. Patty, you're 18. Is it true you only began playing just a few years ago? Is that
what I read about you? How old were you when you first started to play the game?
 
 PATTY SCHNYDER: I mean, I started with 7 and then I turned professional with 15, 16. 
 
Q. Okay, 15. Okay. Who were some of your early idols, I guess you would say? Ones you
really wanted to --
 
 PATTY SCHNYDER: Really, early years it was Agassi and Edberg. And then I just -- Graf,
I admired. Steffi Graf, and like the serve of Pete and strokes from different players. 
 
Q. So you kind of built them all together --
 
 PATTY SCHNYDER: Yep. 
 
Q. And is there one player that you feel you emulate the most?
 
 PATTY SCHNYDER: No, not at the moment. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT