PILOT PEN INTERNATIONAL
August 26, 1998
Patty Schnyder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Looked like you were making a fight back in that second set.

PATTY SCHNYDER: Yeah, it was close to win that set. But we had some tough points and
close games, and yeah, at the end I really played not my best tennis, especially the first
few points of the tiebreaker and just made stupid mistakes.

Q. After such a close first set, what allowed her to get such a big lead in the second
set?

PATTY SCHNYDER: I would say I haven't played for a long time top players since Paris,
French Open, and I really lost my concentration completely. And yeah, I couldn't hold my
concentration at a high level, so that is why she would lead 4-Love in the second and then
I was a little lucky that I could comeback, and -- but there I had my game as well and I
played good, good aggressive tennis again, so, it is not really -- not a bad match for me.

Q. Do you feel she is playing like a top player even though she has been off for four
months?

PATTY SCHNYDER: Yeah, she had an injury, surgeries. I think it is tough to get back for
her, but, of course, if she tries, and she is still a top player, I think.

Q. When do you start looking ahead to your draw at the Open?

PATTY SCHNYDER: Now. This tournament is over, and I have to get ready for the Open,
just -- first, I have to work on my game a little bit, and then just focus on my opponent
and see how I can win the first match. First, I want to do something in my game.

Q. You have been playing fairly well in this event and obviously wanted to get as many
matches in before the Open, how much does it bother you to lose in this round?

PATTY SCHNYDER: Yeah, I would have loved to play against Lindsay one more match, a top
player, but I think it is such a tough, tough field here we have. And I was happy that I
could win one match, so it is okay now. I can practice for the Open, but -- and get ready.

Q. What do you have to work on for the Open, anything specific in your game?

PATTY SCHNYDER: Yeah, I think my return. I wasn't that happy with my return and just
some loopy balls, high balls and also do a little of physical work so that I am reacting a
little bit better. Sometimes I was too slow.

Q. You haven't played in a lot of hard court events this year. How much of a factor is
that out there today?

PATTY SCHNYDER: Yeah, it has been a long time that I haven't played since Key Biscayne
and -- yeah, but I like it. After two or three weeks on hard court I like playing. I
prefer clay and playing in Europe, that is why I play a lot of tournaments there.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT