WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2007
Patty Schnyder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Where did you find the strength to come back from 5-1 in the final set? 
 PATTY SCHNYDER:  I don't know.  Actually, I mean, I shouldn't be down 5-1.  But yeah, that's what happened.  I don't know, the only thing I thought was now you just go and just think of it being clay, and yeah, play at forehand and go to the position you like, more further in the back, and that's how I think I could rally better.  Yeah, somehow I won. 
 But she also helped me.  I mean, she couldn't finish it off.  But somehow -- I know it's not easy sometimes. 

 Q.  Do you think the rain break came at a convenient point? 
 PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah, but there I was back in the game already.  It was 5-4, me serving.  So actually, yeah, it was good to have it, but still, 5-1 rain break is worse, definitely. 

 Q.  Are you also proud of the resiliency you showed under that kind of pressure? 
 PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah, for me it's just -- yeah, since I don't have a good record on grass, it's really struggling with staying calm and keeping -- yeah, just getting the confidence to really play a good match.  I played a great first set, I just couldn't keep it up.  So then I struggle with confidence, I get upset, and it's really always up and down what I go through on grass court matches.  It was really good to come through a difficult one. 

 Q.  Did you know much about Camille beforehand? 
 PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah, actually I played her once, and I saw her play some matches, and I knew what would be coming.  So I was prepared. 

 Q.  It may be slightly off-topic, but I wondered if I could just ask you a question about your book.  I just wondered how that was progressing. 
 PATTY SCHNYDER:  It is progressing.  It's going a little slower than expected.  But yeah, we have no pressure, I mean, from our publishing house.  So yeah, they gave us the time we need, and yeah, it's going to be a big thing, and they can't wait until we finish it, and then we're going to go market it with the marketing staff.  But still, it's our part of writing, so it's going to be German, Russian first for sure, a few months later English and some other languages. 

 Q.  Can you tell us anything about the inspiration behind the title? 
 PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah, it's like a journey, and especially also like -- being like a really stressful tennis player, like everything seems to go right, your life seems great, but there's like little things going on behind the scenes, especially in my life, and the things we went through with my husband.  It's a pretty, yeah, gripping story.  So I think everyone who finishes the book is going to like interpret it different, the title.  So it's just -- I think we wanted to go with it, and it's for you to decide what's in there. 

 Q.  You could say a lot of players on the circuit, they don't have enough background or sort of inner life to merit a book, but you're clearly the exception. 
 PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah, but you will see that like those stories you guys know is going to be a small part of it.  It's going to be a big story that no one knows, and that's going to be the one which really is interesting nor a publishing house to help us to promote it.  So yeah, you won't be disappointed. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT