AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2007
Patty Schnyder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


    THE MODERATOR:  Questions for.   
  
  Q.  How much trouble do you think you were in after the first set?   
 PATTY SCHNYDER:  Heaps of trouble.  She just played great.  I could not really, yeah, get my game going, especially she played tactically only on my backhand.  I really had to run bigtime around to get some forehands.  Of course she served, yeah, really huge in that set.   
 Yeah, I just needed that little drop of her game and, yeah, I was there.  I just grabbed the first thing I could, then I was there.   
  
  Q.  Was there a distinctive turning point for you?   
 PATTY SCHNYDER:  Not really.  I mean, I was really happy that we had two rallies where she started to hit the backhand to my forehand.  I felt I finally got a rally with my forehand.  At first I didn't really play great forehands, but I felt like now I have a game.   
 I just, yeah, was even trying to concentrate more where she would go serving and really just get those balls back, make her play.   
  
  Q.  How difficult is it when you're not only playing against someone who is playing as well as she did in the first set but you're also playing against the whole stadium?   
 PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah, of course they were rooting for her.  But I think they're great tennis fans.  They really appreciate the great shots from my side and they honor them.  I lived through, yeah, other spectators.   
 It's just great to play in front of them.   
  
  Q.  She was once a top 10 player.  Any thoughts on what she might be able to do during the course of this year in terms of rankings?   
 PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah, no, I was really surprised how well she played in her last match, as well, and in this first set.  Yeah, I just hoping so much for her because it was just a shock for all of us that she had that virus, such a bad thing.  Yeah, it happens to the nicest people.  I really hope for her that she can come back.   
 It looks really good now.  She has been fighting through half a year, which she wasn't playing good.  But now with maybe the support here, with her emotions from the tournament, I think she's on a great way to coming back.   
  
  Q.  You made the quarterfinals a few times, semifinals as well.  What is your goal for this year?  One better than that?   
 PATTY SCHNYDER:  Yeah, it would be great.  I'm still in.  That's the most important, to go through that one.  It's just, yeah, keep fighting, keep focusing, then we'll see.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT