BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 22, 2008
Marcus Fraser
Garry Houston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What was the story inside the ropes of the 67?   
 MARCUS FRASER: Played really well, drove it well, hit plenty of greens and made plenty of putts along the way. A bit scrappy do you know the last but overall pretty happy.  
  
  Q. Now, you had a really good run going here last year and slipped away on the Sunday. Were you very focused on trying to really perform well here now this week?  
 MARCUS FRASER: Well, I know I play well here. I play well here all the time. I was disappointed to finish off with a bad round last year, but played pretty tough the last round and the course didn't really suit me. Played a lot longer with the rain. But with it bouncing like this, it gives me a bit of an advantage I think.  
  
  Q. Garry, a tremendous round of golf, as well. You started with a, bogey which is very often disappointing, but you got it back together very nicely.   
 GARRY HOUSTON: Yeah, I played pretty good. To start with a bogey is unfortunate. It's a struggle, anyway.   
 After that I hit the ball pretty good. I don't think I missed a fairway out there today and hit a lot of greens and gave myself a lot of chances.  
  
  Q. Started the season well, it started late last year, how would you describe the last couple of months?   
 GARRY HOUSTON: Hell, really. It's not been too good, no. A lot of the game hasn't been good the last few months. Hopefully this is the start of the rest of the season.  
  
  Q. Do you feel under pressure, though, when you start to get a bit of a run going, having come through a bad patch?   
 GARRY HOUSTON: Not really. It's just a good start. You know, it's one good round. I've put together a lot of bad rounds, but it's very satisfying to play that well tee-to-green and give myself that many chances. I've not been doing that at all, so hopefully I can do something decent tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Marcus, a 67 today, a great start, how upsetting was it last year here after your 78 to conclude the BMW?   
 MARCUS FRASER: Pretty frustrating but you sort of get over it pretty quick. There's always another golf tournament the following week. This is such a great event, probably hurt a little bit more, but you get over it. There's plenty of golf tournaments that we play.   
  
  Q. This is a good start for you, do you think you can build on it?  
 GARRY HOUSTON: Hopefully. Certainly build on it better than you can 75. Hopefully just keep going forward. It's a tough course. Like Marcus said, it's bouncy and playing fast and hard and if you get out of position, there's problems out there, so just try to keep it in position and see what happens.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT