DEUTSCHE BANK PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP OF EUROPE
July 28, 2006
Garry Houston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I must say you didn't sound entirely happy there.
GARRY HOUSTON:  Yeah, I got off to a good start again, started the day quite early on.  I was playing really well, 5 under through 10 holes, then hit quite a good shot on the second hole, my 11th, it was missing the green by about a yard and then it hit the side of the bunker and it went 15 yards left, short sided myself, and I ended up making a 5, so double bogey there, which sort of stopped me in my tracks.

Then I played really well, pretty steady, made a good birdie putt on 6, got up and down at the next hole, 7th, just to save par.

Then I had two good chances coming in, really, 8 and 9.  I didn't take either of them, but yeah, it's    you can't win it today, can you?  It's a good start.
Q.  Having had such short time off overnight, it must have felt like you had never been away from the course?
GARRY HOUSTON:  Exactly.  It was as dark when we started today as when we finished yesterday probably, and as hot.  It was quite humid today after the overnight rain.
Q.  Apart from that 5, otherwise you started with keeping the momentum going from the first day?
GARRY HOUSTON:  Yeah, I played pretty good tee to green.  I think I only missed two greens today and I missed one green yesterday.  I'm giving myself a lot of chances.  I've been putting very well, very solidly, as well.  If you take a few of those, you've got every chance of shooting a good score.
Q.  I know you've shot some good scores this season and particularly looked just outside the Top 10 at Wentworth and Italy was good, but recent weeks haven't been so hot.  Any reason?
GARRY HOUSTON:  I don't know, really.  I have notoriously not played that well in the UK and Ireland.  I don't know what it is, just something about it.  I'd like to find out what because so many events are played there.

I took a week off after Wales I think it was and it kind of took me a while to get back going, and before you know it you miss a couple of putts and you're a little bit up against it, as it was.

I wanted to get over the line to secure my card as fast as I could.  Hopefully this will do that now so I can just relax and play the last sort of ten tournaments, eight tournaments, chilled out, really, and try and push on for Valderrama.
Q.  You're not agitated about the card situation because it will happen, won't it?
GARRY HOUSTON:  Yeah, but you hear of people missing a lot of putts and you don't want it to be you.  I've never missed three putts in a row on Tour before that month like you were talking about.  When I missed three putts, making that long one was very big for me.  It's all about momentum.  I feel like I've got momentum going the right way now.
Q.  You're going to enjoy this weekend coming up?
GARRY HOUSTON:  Definitely, definitely.  Hopefully the weather will stay fine and I'll just try and stay patient, really, keep doing what I'm doing, the old clichés.
Q.  I'll ask a cliché question.  What do you reckon it's going to take to win this in terms of the score because it's such low scoring again?
GARRY HOUSTON:  Yeah, it's going to be very low.  I suppose if the weather stays as it is, as benign as it is, it could be 20 ish, maybe.  I don't know, it depends what Westwood does this afternoon.  If he shoots the same again, he's nearly up 20.  Who knows.  I mean, you'd definitely say you'd be making a good check if you were 20 under.
Q.  A certain Welshman isn't doing badly, is he?
GARRY HOUSTON:  Mr. Woosnam, yeah, he's doing very well.  He's playing right behind us and taking the flags out and holing a few putts.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT