ROLAND GARROS
May 27, 2014
Stephane Robert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 K. ANDERSON/S. Robert
      7‑5, 6‑3, 6‑4 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French, please.   
   
 Q.   Hi.   During the second set you called the physiotherapist.   Why?   What was the matter with you?   What was the potential impact on the outcome of the match?   
    STEPHANE ROBERT:   I called the physiotherapist because I made a move in the second set, two games all, and I heard a bizarre noise.   It cracked.   It was painful, so I called for the physiotherapist to get his view.   
    I suffered that pain a few years ago, so I continued to play.   It was okay.   It didn't get worse.   There were not too many rallies.   I could have retired, but it was possible for me to play.   I wanted to try some shots, so it was good.   
   
 Q.   When you felt that pain, you couldn't fight?  
    STEPHANE ROBERT:   Yes, I could fight, but from time to time when I was running it was painful.   There weren't too many rallies.   I didn't move a lot.   From time to time on the backhand side it was quite tough to play the ball.  
    So I managed to continue because there weren't too many rallies, but when I felt that pain I felt slightly demoralized.   I was very unhappy when I lost the first set, though I had some opportunities.   I think I didn't convert an opportunity, and then I understood that the match was almost over for me at that time.  
   
 Q.   You talked about the first set.   After the loss of the first set, then you threw in the towel, so to speak?  
    STEPHANE ROBERT:   No, I didn't play 100% because I felt a pain.   I didn't manage well the first set.   At 6‑3, 6‑4 I noticed that I could play, but when you play against Kevin Anderson there aren't too many rallies.   I wanted to make the crowd happy.   I didn't put myself in jeopardy.   
   
 Q.   It's very frustrating to be knocked out this way.   
    STEPHANE ROBERT:   No, it's not pleasant to get injured, but it's part of the game.   
   
 Q.   What is your injury all about?   
    STEPHANE ROBERT:   This is a pain that I'm familiar with.   I heard a noise, but I've never heard that noise.   There are some bizarre, strange noises in your body that you don't know.  
    That's a new type of noise.   So I will work with the physiotherapist after the press conference.   Maybe I would ‑‑   I will get a test, an MRI, and I will see if I can continue to play.  
    We'll see.   
   
 Q.   What kind of noise?   
    STEPHANE ROBERT:   Left buttock.   I mean, I heard a noise in my left buttock.   
   
 Q.   You've said that you will continue to play the doubles?   
    STEPHANE ROBERT:   Yes.   I will get some testing and I will make a decision.   I'm supposed to play tomorrow, and I will discuss with my partner and make a decision.   We'll see what's going to happen.  
    What's important is my health.   I will see if I can continue to play.   Otherwise I will have to rest.   That's all.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT