AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2014
Stephane Robert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/S. Robert
  6‑1, 6‑2, 6‑7, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   I was wondering if have you been putting any of your earnings on the roulette table at the casino?  
STEPHANE ROBERT:   Yeah, I don't play casino anymore.   
No, no, but I didn't go to the casino for like three, four days now.   I want to be focused a little bit on the tournament.   Maybe I go back later (smiling).   
   
 Q.   You seemed to enjoy yourself out there.   Was it a good experience?  
STEPHANE ROBERT:   Yeah, yeah.   The thing is I was not so happy, you know, with these two first sets.   6‑1, 6‑2, you know, was difficult because it was a bit fast.   I had some opportunities.   
But the thing is I was feeling good on the court.   I was very relaxed.   I was hoping to do something better.   I did in the third, so it was good.   It was a good fight.   
So, yeah, I was happy with this third set.   And then was difficult in the fourth.   You know, I started a bit cramping so I couldn't fight so much.   It was tough to serve.   
   
 Q.   What do you make of Andy's performance?  
STEPHANE ROBERT:   Yeah, is difficult to play against him because, you know, sometimes we have the same game.   We are like pushing the ball with the backhand waiting a little bit for the mistake.   
At the beginning, I really was in trouble.   He was chipping the ball with the backhand and I was doing like some mistake.   You know, like not stupid mistake, but like it was unforced errors obviously.   
But finally after I start to play, I start to give some points, like unforced error, and it makes me back in the game.   After I start to play better and better, like fighting, putting the ball in.   
First two sets I was trying, but, you know, it was my game.   I was trying to finish the point a bit earlier because I couldn't play.   I was doing some rallies and couldn't breathe.   I was so tired.   
So for him, you know, I don't know if he's moving so good, because on the forehand side, I don't know if is too good.   I could see that it was tough for him to go there.   Obviously he was serving good at the beginning of the match.   
Then, you know, he's very difficult to move on the court.   He was defending so good.   Yeah, I think he was happy‑‑   no, he was not that happy to lose the third set, as you could see.   
But the fourth set was fast for him, so I think it is good performance.   
   
 Q.   What was it like signing the autographs at the end?  
STEPHANE ROBERT:   Signing autograph, it happen to me even if I play a small tournament, likes exhibition tournament, so this is okay.   But the standing ovation, this is a good surprise.   I lost, and then the speakers say, Robert, the lucky loser.   History.   I didn't hear anything.   Then they start, Robert, Robert.   It's unbelievable for me.   
I'm happy.   People enjoy see my game today.   /so, yeah, it was a great, great feeling for sure.   
   
 Q.   I know you beat Berdych at Roland Garros.   Was this the biggest match of your life?  
STEPHANE ROBERT:   Yeah, yeah, for sure.   Yeah, beating Tomas in French Open was great.   Also because of the story.   I was two sets down.   
Yeah, in France it was completely different.   Here it's easier to manage.   There is no pressure.   I'm here.   There are some French people.   With the media, I have no problem.   It's no problem.   I have no pressure.   
In Paris, you know, it's totally different.   You know, I played on this Court No. 2, so it's very small court.   It was like boxing game.   So, yeah, it was unbelievable.   
The first thing is I was happy to give this to my family, to my friend.   Yeah, I told them already for like 10 years, I said, C'mon, I am going to do something in French Open.   Finally I did something, so I was really happy with this achievement.   
   
 Q.   After the last match you said no questions about prize money.   Now can you talk about prize money?  
STEPHANE ROBERT:   Yeah, you know, I was with the TV, and everybody told me, You won 35k.   What are you thinking about this?   Yeah, I said, Okay.   I was like, you know, dropping out.   Yeah, I was not thinking about this.   I'm still in the tournament.   I don't want to know anything about this.   
Okay, now I'm going to take the prize money.   This is good.   This is the biggest prize money for me.   So is good.   Is very good help.   I'm going to invest on my tennis again.   
   
 Q.   You seem very relaxed for the fourth round of a Grand Slam.   Do you see yourself as a bit of a comedian on tour?  
STEPHANE ROBERT:   I'm acting a little bit sometimes.   I'm doing like this.   I'm wondering why I'm doing this.   I'm fighting every point.   Sometimes I'm wondering, What are you doing?   
I know I have to be like this.   You know, if I'm too nervous, I'm not playing good.   I know this.   So after I'm not acting.   I want to be like really peaceful on court.   Then sometimes a little bit of show also.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT