U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2020
Davis Chatfield
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. When you saw you were paired up against Scott last night in the bracket, what were your first thoughts?
DAVIS CHATFIELD:   You know, obviously I know Scott, just hearing his name everywhere.  He's won pretty much everything at this point, it seems.  So I knew I had a tough match ahead of me.  He played really well it seemed yesterday.  I think he shot 5-under on Dunes.  I knew I had to get off to a good start to just get some confidence going throughout the round, and I was able to do that.  I eagled the 3rd hole.  I hit it to six feet, and that was a good first couple holes anyways to get the match started.  He's just such an awesome guy.  He's a lot of fun to play with.
Q. You got the lead, but he just kept coming back at you all through the back nine.  What did you have to do, especially mentally, to hold him off?
DAVIS CHATFIELD:   Yeah, I knew -- I figured after the first six holes I was like 3-up, but I knew him, he was going to bounce back, and I figured he was going to make some birdies, and he made one on 9.  He had a bunch of looks today, and he hit the ball really well, and I knew that it was going to be really tough to make birdies, so I knew par was going to at least halve the hole on most of the holes, especially on the back nine once the wind started to pick up.
I knew if I just hit it in the fairway, got it in the middle of the green it was going to get some pressure on him.
Q. And then it got down to one in the closing holes, and you had to do what you had to do on 18.  Take us through 18.
DAVIS CHATFIELD:   Yeah, he bombed a drive out there.  We were both kind of surprised where it ended up.  He basically went for it in two, ended up just short left, and where I was after my first shot, I just couldn't go for the green.  Played a very similar hole to what I did in medal play.  I had about 130 in.  Hit a 9.  It was mostly off the left and a little hurt, which is a little different than a couple days ago, so it just flew a little past the pin.  But I got a pretty good read off of his putt, and after he missed I just needed to lag it up there.
Q. So you go from a USA Walker Cupper to a GB&I Walker Cupper tomorrow in Sandy Scott.  What do you think that's going to be like?
DAVIS CHATFIELD:   It's obviously a first -- a tough first couple matches here, but with this field, you're bound to get that.  Everybody in this field is really good.  They're here for a reason.  I'm just going to play my own game tomorrow and whatever happens happens.
Q. Where is your confidence level now?
DAVIS CHATFIELD:   It's really high, especially after beating him.  I felt like I played really solid throughout the day, and if I keep going, keep that going into tomorrow, I feel maybe I can get another one.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT