WGC ANDERSEN CONSULTING MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 22, 2000
Tim Finchem
Joe W. Forehand
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOE W. FOREHAND: Thanks, James. I would like to welcome all of you and thank you for
attending our inaugural presentation of the Andersen Consulting Medal. The Andersen
Consulting Medal is sponsored by Andersen Consulting and the International Federation of
PGA Tours. This award is presented to the winner of the three World Golf Championships.
Last year, that was the World Golf Championships - Andersen Consulting Match Play
Championship and the NEC Invitational and the American Express Championship. The 1999
recipient of the Andersen Consulting Medal is none other than Tiger Woods. Tiger won a
little over $2.1 million last year in the three events, and we're proud that Tiger is the
winner of the inaugural medal. As part of this award, it includes a contribution in
Tiger's name by Andersen Consulting to the First Tee charity, and Tim Finchem is the
representative of the First Tee charity. And Tim, do you want to make a couple of
comments? 
COMMISSIONER TIMOTHY W. FINCHEM: Thank you, Joe. First of all on behalf of the
Federation, let me recognize a couple of my compatriots, Arthur Sanderson, the Executive
Director of the Australasian Tour, and Kosaku Shimada, the Executive Director of the
Japanese Tour. Representatives of the other Tours will be coming in later today. I'd like
to thank Andersen Consulting for the partnership that they have entered into with the
Federation and the commitment they have made to not just this tournament, not just to
sponsoring a championship for the purpose of building their brand, but also to make a
commitment to junior golf through this medal, and an annual contribution to the First Tee.
Andersen has proven to be a company of visioning in golf and commitment, and we're
delighted to have them as a partner along with NEC and American Express. I'd like to
congratulate Tiger on helping the World Golf Championships to get off to the start they
did in the first year. His play, getting to the quarters here last year, winning at NEC,
winning at American Express really kicked off the year. And it's fitting that we are
recognized in a junior golf contribution, because of Tiger's great enthusiasm for growing
the game and the way he's bringing millions to the game, is allowing the First Tee to
recognize the success it's had just in the first two years. So Tiger we thank you for that
as well. And now I'll turn it -- for the presentation of the medal I'll turn it back over
to Joe Forehand. And as I do so congratulate Joe for taking the reins at Andersen
Consulting this year as their new CEO. 
JOE W. FOREHAND: Thanks, Tim, I'd like to echo that with the First Tee charity that
Tiger's stand for kids and golf is very appropriate. Without further ado let's get the
Andersen Consulting Medal. We'll get that to Tiger, and along with this, Tiger, there
comes a cash award of 250,000, as well.
TIGER WOODS: Thanks, Joe. This is a neat award, I'm pretty excited to have contributed
to the success of the World Golf Championships, to be a part of them. And to win a couple
of them was definitely a nice little bonus. But last year was a good year, and I'm pretty
proud of the way I played. I don't think my caddy's too upset that I won some of the World
Golf Championships. Overall I'm very pleased and thanks again, Joe. 

Q. What's the contribution to the First Tee? 

COMMISSIONER TIMOTHY W. FINCHEM: $250,000. 

Q. Tiger, what do you do with all these trophies?

TIGER WOODS: Put them in my house or my mom's. Sometimes my parents like getting some
of the hardware, too. 

Q. Does it cause you any back pain wearing that thing?

TIGER WOODS: Thank God I've been lifting. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT