NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 27, 2015
Tom Hoge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tom, great round today.  Climbed up the leaderboard.  It's a tough golf course.  What was going right today?
TOM HOGE: Really just tried to hang in there.  From the start of the week felt like you get it 4- or 5-under that I'd be right there.  Would've liked to have one more shot there at the last.
That was the goal:  Just hang in there.  Whether it was Thursday or whatever, you're going to make bogeys out here, that's for sure, so just hang in there and get to the end.
Q. Can you walk me through 18.
TOM HOGE: Yeah, it's always been a tough tee shot for me, especially with the wind off the left and having to get (indiscernible) left.
I kind of went through the fairway there on the right; was blocked a little by a tree; just tried to hit a smart shot and make sure I didn't throw away a TOUR card by making bogey or something stupid there.  Had a putt at it; a little high, but I'll take it.
Q. Talk about that a little bit.  Obviously were you thinking about that today?  Like you saw where you were on the leaderboard, were you thinking, Don't make any mistakes and I have a chance to lock this up?
TOM HOGE: Yeah, definitely.  That's why we're all here, is to get on the PGA TOUR.  That was the No. 1 goal; winning was kind of second.
Like I said, I had whatever, $10,000 coming into the week, so I knew that another 25 to 30 was probably going to be good enough.  Luckily I made a lot of really good putts there, 14, 15, 16, 17 to kind of keep me in the thing.
Q. At one point today were you thinking about it or are you always thinking about that?
TOM HOGE: I think we're all thinking about that the whole time.  It's kind of in the back of your mind.  I knew that I probably had to finish top 10, and so that was the whole focus.  For a while there, 12, 13, 14, I had a lot of tough par putts I was able to make and kind of keep things going.
Q. How does the emotion of locking up your card right now compare to how it was last year in North Carolina?
TOM HOGE: It's a little different having spent a year on the PGA TOUR.  Even having 126 to 150 status for next year, knowing that I would be getting in, whatever, 10 to 15 events.
So a little different feeling.  But at the same time, I kind of feel like that's where I belong out there.  I knew one of these weeks would happen here in the four.
Q. Now that you know you're going back there, do you feel like you'll be more comfortable now having spent a whole year?
TOM HOGE: Yeah, for sure.  I think a big part of your rookie year is just getting used to the guys and the courses out there, and all that.
Took me a little while to get used to that see where my game would stacked up.
Looking forward to a second go of it, and hopefully I can get off to a fast start this time and not trying to play catchup the whole way.
Q. The pressure and the magnitude, I had talked to you about this in Fort Wayne, but playing with Tiger at Wyndham and having that whole scene, did that help at all in a situation like today?
TOM HOGE: Yeah.  I think back to last year in North Carolina.  I was pretty nervous the night before and the whole round.  Just seemed like I was trying to get to the end.
Today I felt real calm out there.  I kind of knew what I had to do.  I was here with Justin Thomas last year, I played with him in the final round of and saw what he was able to do and just hang in there.
He was so far back, and Richard Sterne made a few bogeys coming in.  I kind of felt like that was the tragedy to take:  Just keep going along and see if you can make a few birdies coming in and sneak up on the guys.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT