WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
January 30, 2020
Tom Hoge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Great playing out there today. Just the one bogey there at 15. How was the golf course? It looked like the conditions were perfect.
TOM HOGE: You know, it was interesting because right off the start it was real cold off the first tee and the greens were bouncing like crazy. So the first few holes, a bit of an adjustment getting used to that first bounce with the iron shots coming in. But, yeah, it got perfect, it's going to be a beautiful afternoon out here.
Q. You're coming off two great starts, it's really been a good year for you, you had runner-up at The Greenbrier, of course last week 5th, tied for 6th at the American Express. What's kind of turned around for you and how much confidence has that given you?
TOM HOGE: You know it's hard to put a finger on, really, but I would just say I've hit a lot of real quality shots, where in the past you kind of throw a bogey in here and there and lose that momentum, just kept hitting a lot of good shots and I dont want to say it's easy, because it's never easy around Torrey Pines and the Stadium Course at PGA West, but it's been a lot of good, a lot of good golf and the putter's been pretty good too.
Q. You got a veteran caddie, Henry Diana, on your bag, you've had him about a year, how much has Henry helped you get better?
TOM HOGE: Yeah, for sure, and it's the little stuff, how we practice and trying to be a little bit more efficient and just be more professional, I guess you could say.
Q. Any particular situations or hole locations players are going to have to look out for today?
TOM HOGE: I 3-putted there on 15, that's a tough one to get to up there on the little shelf in the back left. Both the par-5s really on the back nine, the 13th, the pin's kind of right there in the front right, once again just on top of a little bit of a shelf there and tough chipping to that one as well. So the par-5s are playing a little bit tougher on the back nine.
Q. Excellent start. Some comments on your round today.
TOM HOGE: Yeah, I've been playing well lately and I just tried to carry that over. And it was a tough start right off the bat, it was a little bit cold and the greens were bouncing pretty good, so a little bit of an adjustment period there to get used to that. But started making a few nice putts there -- trying to think -- the par-3 7th I made a nice putt, 20 feet or so that kind of got me going and made a few from there.
Q. What time did you get up and how chilly was it on the range in the dark?
TOM HOGE: I got up about 5 o'clock this morning because it was an early start. And the range actually wasn't too bad and we got on the first tee and there was a little bit of wind that came up and all of a sudden that got pretty cold. So a little bit to get used to, and like I said, the toughest part was the greens right off the bat were bouncing pretty good going into 2 and 3 and some of those it was tough to get close to the hole.
Q. Do you like this early/late?
TOM HOGE: Yeah, we get used to kind of both ways, but early/late gives me a little time to go out and practice up and fine tune things up a little bit and try and do it tomorrow.
Q. After 15 what did it mean to bounce back on 16 and 17 and take advantage coming in?
TOM HOGE: I was a little hot walking through that tunnel there to 16 tee for sure after a 3-putt. So I got up there and it was a perfect wedge number for me, 140 yards to the front, so just a nice full wedge. And I pulled it just a little bit I thought I was going to have to the boos coming down there a little left of it, but nice look right up the hill there for the putt.
Q. How do you prepare for the craziness that surrounds the group that you played your way into?
TOM HOGE: Yeah, you know, it's fun, more than anything. I played with Tiger on Sunday last week and just to have that energy and excitement out there it's a blast. I played well here last year, on Saturday I was one of the later groups, so I got to experience all the craziness there on the back nine. So it's fun and just try to welcome it and play well.
Q. With the way the course and conditions are today, how do you think 6-under stacks up for the remainder?
TOM HOGE: It's a good score. The greens are a little bit firm, but somebody will probably go out and probably shoot 7-, 8-under par. The greens are rolling so well that if you get a lot of good looks there you can make a lot of putts.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT