WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 20, 2015
Tom Hoge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Tom Hoge, 8-under par, 62 in the 1st Round. Bogey-free. Pretty good day. Tell us about it.
TOM HOGE: Yeah, it was a really good day. I started off on 1, hit it on the green about 30, 35 feet. Playing really well last two weeks. Get some confidence going. The putter was good from the start. Just holed some nice putts on the front, 10, 15 footers little break to them. The greens were perfect. Get them on line and they roll.

Q. Starting the tournament outside the Top 125. How much of that play on your mind?
TOM HOGE: Little bit. But I look at it, rookie year out here. I played really well last couple months and just try to go out and wherever it falls, if I got to go back to the Web.com Finals, I've played it twice on other courses. Got to have one good week in the next five, pretty much. We'll see what happens.

Q. You have the reputation of being an iron man on the Web.com Tour. Kind of picking up that pace here, 25th event of the year.
TOM HOGE: Yeah. You know. I love it out here. I'll play every week I can out here on the PGA TOUR. Pretty good deal. I haven't been in a position where I can take a week off. I was 170th in the FedExCup the middle of June. So I've been playing everything I can. You get going nicely and try to keep the rhythm going.

Q. Congratulations, man, holding the lead in your home state, that's kind cool.
TOM HOGE: Yeah, it's awesome. Really unexpected. Didn't know what to expect coming in here, this course and everything, first time here. Started make something putts off the bat. Got some confidence going.

Q. (Inaudible.)
TOM HOGE: Really I don't want to think about that too much. Just try to keep going along the whole week. Got to finish top 20 or so to get in the Top 125 for the FedExCup Playoffs. That's more of the focus. To go without any bogies today, that helped out.

Q. (Inaudible.)
TOM HOGE: Little bit. To be honest, I've been playing really well lately. I haven't thought about it a whole lot. Play as well as I have and maybe make a putt or two more each round and be in good shape.

Q. Is there any pressure taking off last with you coming in so late and not having to deal with crowd control or anything like that to get that score?
TOM HOGE: Little bit. We were last off, bringing in the pins but get a big slowdown on 14, 15, that kind of slowed the rhythm down a little bit. Like to keep it going. I played well. Birdie at the last.

Q. What did you think of the course?
TOM HOGE: I like it. For whatever reason I've had some success around here. Played well in the Charlotte area last fall and played in Greenville a couple years ago. The area has been good to me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT