SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 20, 2019
Tom Hoge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I'm guessing knowing you probably have a late tee time Saturday you wanted to get done no matter what.
TOM HOGE: Yeah, we were really hoping to finish, and I didn't think there was any way we were going to make it there. Luckily Billy made a putt on 8 green, ran over to 9 as while the other group was teeing off still, and he was able to hit while they were walking up, so worked out well.
Q. Were they just off the tee?
TOM HOGE: He actually waited for two them to tee off. They way 9 is they had to walk around the pond, so he was able to hit while they were walking to the other side of the pond. Without that, there was no way we were going to finish.
Q. Was that last putt tough all to read?
TOM HOGE: Yeah, it was pretty dark out there. Thought I missed it and couldn't see the edge of the hole from four feet there, but it snuck in somehow.
Q. Your best finish at this event is T35. Talk about being T2 going into the weekend.
TOM HOGE: Yeah, another good opportunity. I was kind of all over the place today. Didn't hit many fairways so not a lot of good looks. Hopefully I can clean that up for the weekend, but just keep trying to make birdies.
Q. You've got some good momentum. What's the mindset heading into the weekend?
TOM HOGE: Yeah, just keep doing more of the same. I think there are a lot of guys bunched up there at 10-under par, so you know you got to keep making birdies the whole way and get after it.
Q. What's the last week and a half been like for you?
TOM HOGE: Yeah, I mean, really just since Sunday more so because I kind of worked my way up each day of the tournament, the Greenbrier.
Just freed up I would say is the best way to put it. Knowing I'm in pretty good shape for the FedExCup this year already is kind of just let's you go play.
Q. You finished in the dark a lot of times, or is this a new thing?
TOM HOGE: My first couple years on tour I was always in that category that was last off it seemed like. Little experience with it. This is probably as dark as it's been though.
Q. Do you have to remind yourself to slow down when you're in that situation?
TOM HOGE: I like to play fast anyway, so worked out well for me. I always told people I grew up in North Dakota. If you played slow, you got frost bite, so get out there and play fast.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT