SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 19, 2019
Tom Hoge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tom, how often do you have rounds like that, especially where you go bogey-free and hit a 45-foot for birdie?
TOM HOGE: Nice way to end for sure. Really already off the start I hit a couple nice wedges and birdied the first three holes. Just a good way get the day started.
Made a few nice putts in the middle of the round to keep it going; good start for sure.
Q. Earned your card on the Korn Ferry Tour. I guess kind of feel like you're riding that momentum coming into this round?
TOM HOGE: Yeah, definitely. There was so much pressure there for a few weeks to play well and get back out here on the PGA Tour; so many great events to play in.
Once you get that done, it frees you up a little bit. At the same time, you know you played well, so just kind of keep it rolling.
Q. I guess how do you kind of make sure you keep it rolling now seeing what you saw on this course? Obviously try and keep that momentum.
TOM HOGE: Yeah, it's like I've been driving it good and putting good, which is kind of the key for me. Hopefully keep it going. Just been playing a lot of golf tournaments. Kind of feel like I just kind of in that tournament groove right now.
Q. Playing early help with you the weather you think?
TOM HOGE: Yeah, for sure. It's pretty warm out here, so it was nice to get almost a full 24 hours between rounds, get out of the heat and get some rest. That'll be good.
Q. What did you see from the course that allowed you to have that kind of success?
TOM HOGE: I mean, the greens are perfect really. If you hit it within 15 feet you have a great chance to make all the putts. That was key getting out. First guys out this morning it was perfect, so there was some putts to be made for sure.
Q. You mentioned getting back on the TOUR. To be back here, how grateful are you for this opportunity?
TOM HOGE: Yeah, you look at it and we play 40-some events in the year and they're all great tournaments, great purses. Really just a great opportunity for a guy like me to go out and have a great week and change my life.
Q. What did it feel like to hear the crowd on that last putt?
TOM HOGE: Yeah, that was fun. 40 feet and you're just trying to roll it down there, get it close, end the day, and to see it go in was pretty nice and a nice way to head into lunch.
Q. How would you compare when you were doing so well in the first event of the year versus this event?
TOM HOGE: A lot of the same stuff really. Until that last hole I hadn't made a lot of long holes. I hit some wedge shots in there real close, gave myself some good looks.
That was kind of the way it was last week, but nice to see a putt go in. Hopefully keep that going.
Q. Just looking forward to tomorrow, what was maybe the biggest thing that you learned that you can carry into the rest of it?
TOM HOGE: Not a lot. I mean, I drove it a little bit offline in the rough. Few last holes had some tough lies. Rough is only got to going to get thicker and longer as the week goes on, sp so just got to keep hitting a lot fairways out there.
Q. 159 FedExCup last season. How important is it to take advantage of these fall events?
TOM HOGE: Yeah, it's huge. The only other year that I made the FedExCup playoffs, two years ago I got off to a good start with a finish I think seventh in Vegas and played well in Sony. Just frees up the rest of the year. Go from there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT