A MILITARY TRIBUTE AT THE GREENBRIER
September 15, 2019
Tom Hoge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Tom, good solid week for you. I know a little disappointed with the back nine, but you got to feel really good about this week having to go back to the Korn Ferry Tour finals last year and off to a great start.  
TOM HOGE: Yeah, you know, I kind of started the week slow. I think I was 1-over through 14 holes, and I was all over the places in those 14 holes. I think to keep it in there and give myself a chance the rest of the week was big.   
And then today I hit a lot of shots close right off the start and had some good momentum going. Just a couple bad shots I would like to have back, but it was a good week and good way to start the year will.   
 Q.  How difficult was that golf course at times on this final day?  
TOM HOGE: It got super firm. There were balls that were hitting way down there off the tee and some tricky pins. At the same time, relatively calm. You had a lot of wedges in your hands so you could get after it a little bit, too.   
 Q.  As you come back The TOUR again, is there anything, through your experience out here, that you're going to feel like you'll use this time around?  
TOM HOGE: Yeah, I feel like I've seen just a little bit of everything seems like. For me, two years ago I had to go back to the Korn Ferry Tour finals as well and started off real well.   
There is definitely some confidence built playing under that pressure out there when you're playing for your job, and to come through, it's nice to got off to a good start again.   
 Q.  5-under, 65. Really nice day. I know you're allege disappoint on the back nine, but just get some comments overall.  
TOM HOGE: Yeah, it was a great start for me. Hit I it right there close on the 1st hole and missed about a five-footer. Made a nice putt on 2, and that kind of got me going. A lot of good wedge shots in there close on the front nine and got in the mix of things. It was fun.   
 Q.  Fun week for you to kick off the season here in West Virginia.  
TOM HOGE: Yeah, it was a great week in West Virginia. Nice to be here. Coming from the Korn Ferry category it was important to play well to get in the reshuffle, so it's a good start for me.   
 Q.  How does a round like today kind of set you up, first tournament, for the rest of the season?  
TOM HOGE: Yeah, it was big. There is a lot of great tournaments during the PGA TOUR I want to play in, some invitationals that I've got to play my way back into, and this was a big step for that.   
 Q.  Did you come in thinking of a number that you had to get to knowing that Joaquin was out there?  
TOM HOGE: You know, to be honest, I really felt like I was maybe a couple shots too far back to start the day. It was a great start. I think I was 5-under through 8, so right in the mix there.   
But I think he's at 19 now. I mean, that would be a lot to ask for me today for sure.   
 Q.  Hoping for this kind of result? What were the expectations coming in?  
TOM HOGE: I felt like I've been playing well. Had to go back to the Korn Ferry finals and played well for two weeks out there.   
Felt like my game was in good order. Got off to a terrible start on Thursday; really I was kind of all over the place with my game. Kind of game came together for me there the last few days, so it was fun.   
 Q.  What do you think about this area?  
TOM HOGE: Yeah, we have a great time here. My wife comes every year to the resort and we have a great week. A lot of the fun for sure.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT