PURE SILK-BAHAMAS LPGA CLASSIC
May 25, 2013
Paola Moreno
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   So if you would, just tell us about your round.   You're bogey free through two days here. 
PAOLA MORENO:   Yes.   It's been exciting.   You know, I am just focused on what I can control right now, and it's my game and the holes that I have ahead of me.   I've been putting well, very solid.   So very excited for tomorrow.

Q.   Does it feel like you're in the hunt, even though you've played two 12‑hole rounds?   Does it still feel like tomorrow is potentially the biggest day of your career?
PAOLA MORENO:   Of course it could be.   Like I said, I'm focused on what I can control right now, and the only thing that matters right now is the first tee on No. 1 or No. 10, whatever hole we're playing tomorrow.
And I'm just excited to be here, and I'm going to do my best, and we'll see.

Q.   Can you just talk about any longer putts you might have made today, chip‑ins, anything like that?
PAOLA MORENO:   Okay.   I made a good one on No. 2, which is No. 6, I'm guessing.   Yeah, I made a pretty good one.

Q.   How far was that, do you remember?
PAOLA MORENO:   25‑footer.   And then I made like a 20‑footer on No. 4.   And then I had 15‑footers in No. 11, which was I don't know what number it is.   And then 13.   I birdied that one. 

Q.   Was that a short one, the putt?
PAOLA MORENO:   The putt, yeah, like a 10‑footer.   I don't think it was 15.

Q.   Did you know you were in the lead?
PAOLA MORENO:   I saw the scoreboard, but like I said, I'm just focusing on the shot that I have ahead of me, trying to stay in the present and do my best.

Q.   Were you nervous about finishing?
PAOLA MORENO:   No. 8 is a pretty tricky hole for us, and I just wanted to finish.   I didn't want to come early tomorrow to finish my round.   But I actually made par and almost made a birdie.   So it was good.

Q.   So what do you focus on tomorrow, 10 tee?
PAOLA MORENO:   First tee shot.   Yeah. 

Q.   No. 10?
PAOLA MORENO:   I'm guessing that's the first hole.   That's all I'm focusing right now.

Q.   They're going to play No. 18 tomorrow. 
PAOLA MORENO:   I'm not sure.   I haven't heard anything from the officials.

Q.   They are.   They're finishing hole 18 tomorrow. 
PAOLA MORENO:   Oh, perfect.   Well, I'm excited.

Q.   Did you play it earlier this week?
PAOLA MORENO:   I did.   I played 18 on Monday and nine holes on Tuesday.   So I've seen the course. 

Q.   Did you see all the dead fish in the pond going up to 3?
PAOLA MORENO:   I did.   It didn't smell good.   But you know, it's such a beautiful place.   We actually love it here, and we hope, you know, we can have this tournament every year.   It's beautiful.

Q.   Was there anything for you that you were going to play this well?
PAOLA MORENO:   I've been putting well this week.   I found something in my stroke this week at the beginning of the week, which was the difference between the other weeks that I've been missing cuts just for one stroke, just one putt or just not making enough putts. 
And I'm excited to play tomorrow.   It's going to be fun. 

Q.   How different do you think it'll be tomorrow knowing you start with only 12 holes instead of 18?   It's like a short round, isn't it?
PAOLA MORENO:   Sure.   I mean it's different.   I'm not going to say it's usual, you know, but I can't control that.   I can't control the holes that they want us to play. 
The only thing that I really want to do is put myself out there and bring the best attitude and my A game hopefully.

Q.   Are you nervous?
PAOLA MORENO:   Nerves are good.   Yeah, of course.   I mean I prepare myself for these kind of situations, to play the last day and hopefully win tournaments, you know, but there are a lot of holes left, and I can only say I have to play very solid tomorrow and bring my best game.   Yeah. 

Q.   Thank you. 
PAOLA MORENO:   Okay.   Thank you guys. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT