U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 1, 2019
Maria Fassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What was the difference today?  Physical, mental?  
MARIA FASSI: I think overall, I've been hitting it great all week.  I had a couple of bad breaks the first two rounds and kind of wasn't making anything.  So it was hard to build momentum.   
But today, I saw a few putts drop in early in the round, and I think that helped me boost my confidence.  From there, it was just on.  I was more aggressive going on to some of those pin locations.  I had a bunch of birdie opportunities out there.   
So I think it was just more of seeing some putts drop and building from there.   
 Q.  How tough is it when you're kind of near the cut line coming into the day to try to not only come out with a good day, but a day like you had for the most part and just kind of get over that mental hurdle?  
MARIA FASSI: Yeah, I think it's hard because I was -- pretty much my first time kind of experiencing that.  Coming back today to play those three last holes and knowing that I just had to make pars was kind of tough because we don't necessarily go out there trying to make pars.   
But then knowing that that's what I had to do, it was both good and bad at the same time and something hard to get over.   
But I think we did good out there today and got over the cut line.  I think that also helped me build my confidence for the beginning of the third round.   
 Q.  I saw there with some family members, I assume, embracing you.  What is that like to have sort of that support system and a pretty boisterous group at that to keep you going?  
MARIA FASSI: I think my family is key in all of my success, and getting all my family members to be out here this week with me is very special.  We don't get a lot of time together, the six of us, so it's nice to have some quality time with them and, of course, to share my first professional start.   
I made the cut and played good golf today as well.  As you can hear, they're pretty loud so that's always fun.  I think it just makes it way more special.   
 Q.  Anything they said to you last night coming into today that was kind of motivational or anything like that?  Or was it simple?  
MARIA FASSI: I think they'll clap if I make a bogey or if I make a birdie, and I think that's really valuable.  I have their support no matter what.  So it was just more of me having fun and enjoying the round, and I knew that if I do those things, golf was going to follow along.  I think it paid off pretty well today.   
 Q.  Obviously, there's still a long way to go with people going today, but putting yourself in a position, maybe, for tomorrow, what does that feel like to at least know that you maybe have a chance, putting yourself in that spot?  
MARIA FASSI: Definitely, I think being back to even is always good.  I've seen the course three times already with, like, tournament-wise and the practice rounds and stuff like that.  So I have a pretty good idea of what the course looks like and how it's playing.   
I know my game plan is going to be very strong for tomorrow.  So definitely it's a nice thing that I was able to pull off a good round today, and hopefully I make some more birdies tomorrow and keep this momentum going.   
 Q.  If you have a day similar, maybe even better, do you think your family will be able to contain themselves any more or less?  
MARIA FASSI: Absolutely not.  There's no chance.   
 Q.  The overall fan support, you had one of the biggest roars of the day on 9.  Are you kind of blown away by it?  
MARIA FASSI: It's so nice.  I was saying earlier how they've been amazing to me this week.  They -- I mean, there was people at 7:50 in the morning today when I was finishing those last three holes, so that's very special to see.  And it was nice just to walk and see people on the sidelines and cheering me on and saying good things while I was walking.   
So it's great to be here.  I know I've said a million times this place is really special to me, and they definitely impact that.   
 Q.  How much do you think the Augusta National Women's Amateur plays a role in that?  
MARIA FASSI: I think it's huge.  I mean, everyone saw that, and we -- I think that, and then NCAAs also helped me kind of get myself out there and have people get to know me a little bit better.   
I think they just like the way I hit it and stuff, and now, being here and seeing their support has been really special to me.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT