AUGUSTA NATIONAL WOMEN'S AMATEUR
April 6, 2019
Maria Fassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Competitive there on the back nine?
MARIA FASSI: Absolutely, even starting on 1, I knew it was going like that.  I knew who I was playing against, and it was just so much fun.  We joked at the beginning.  We're like, let's make sure we put up a show for people and we did.
I'm extremely proud of what I did, and Jennifer for getting that win.  It was just so much fun.  Yeah I don't think it could have been any better.
Q. How impressive were the two shots by Jennifer on 13 and 15?
MARIA FASSI: Oh, amazing.  That's the kind of player she is.  She'll do that when she has to.  That's one of the things I admire and respect most about her.  She's not afraid of going for it.  She's not afraid to be great, and that's what makes her great.  I'm extremely happy that she got that win.
Of course, I would have liked that to be me but I'm extremely happy that it was her.  She deserves it so much.
Q. Can you take us through the shot on 13?  You hit a very good drive but it was in the second cut.  What was your thought process on whether to go for it or lay up?
MARIA FASSI: Well, I didn't even think about going for it.  The ball was sitting down.  I had a downhill and downslope, so it would have been really stupid of me to try to go for it.  I felt like my wedges were in a good place and I was just trying to give myself an opportunity to make birdie and I did.  I unfortunately didn't make the putt, but I did what I had to do, and I thought it was the right decision.  You grew up as a kid watching Lorena, to have her walking this round with you and watching you, what did that mean.
Q. I imagine that's probably the first time she's seen you play in a tournament this big.
MARIA FASSI: Yeah, it's great just to have her support and to know how much she cares about me and she wants to help, and it was just really exciting one of the first people I hugged after 18 was her.  The things she told me was amazing.  It was good and I'm really happy that I got to share that with her, as well.
Q. The emotions that you were feeling just a few moments ago, what was that?  What were you feeling?
MARIA FASSI: I'm just really excited.  Yeah, I'm really emotional and I'm just really proud of what I did.
John Sutcliffe was actually starting to cheer up, and I'm like, come on, John, don't make me try.
I'm just really proud of the fact -- I had out there, and that's why I was getting emotional.  It was more, that 'atta girl, kind of thing, than anything else.
Q. The show you guys put on out there in front of a TV audience and all these people, what do you think it means for women's golf what you were able to do out there?
MARIA FASSI: I think that's what women's golf should look like every Sunday on the last group.  It's the players' responsibility for it to be like that, and I know that's the way I want to be for the rest of my life.  I know that if I have that opportunity again, I mean, it would be the exact same.  I think if we get to see that more, we're going to get more viewers and that's only going to make the game grow and it's only going to help us.
I guess I try to encourage just sportsmanship.  This is at the end of the day, a gentleman's game, and the one that makes the most birdies, wins.  I think we just have to know that, yeah, we are competing against each other, but at the end of the day, we are just competing against ourselves.  I hope that people value that and that they enjoy that, because that's -- yeah, that's what I want to show.  That's how I want people to remember me.
Q. What did you Lorena say to you on 18?
MARIA FASSI: She was about to cry, and she said, hey, I'm so proud of you, and telling me about how much fun she had out there and how much fun it was to watch me play.
She said, "Keep your chin up because you've got a long way ahead.  Just shake it off and enjoy just being out here."






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT