AUGUSTA NATIONAL WOMEN'S AMATEUR
April 4, 2019
Maria Fassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Maria Fassi, currently in second place.  She's from Pachuca, México, attends the University of Arkansas, in sole second with 4-under par.
So if you wouldn't mind just kind of taking us through your highlights today.  You had five birdies and an eagle?
MARIA FASSI: Yeah, I started off strong.  I made a birdie on my second hole, No. 11, the par 3.  So that was nice, just getting a nice birdie on the first few holes.
Bogeyed the next couple, so that wasn't as much fun.  But then I actually was able to make an eagle on the next par 5, on 14, and it was a really nice confidence booster, as well.  I was getting excited.
Then I made a few pars, a couple more bogeys, and it was really nice to finish with birdies on 7 and 9.  I knew I had to post an under-par score to be in contention for Saturday, and it was just exciting to see that I made so many birdies.
I'm just focusing, I guess, on not making so many mistakes, because I know I'm going to be able to make putts on Saturday, so I'm excited I can still be aggressive and get some putts to roll in, and yeah, it was ups and downs, but a really nice round.  I enjoyed it a lot.
Q. Talk about 14, because yesterday you came within an inch of chipping in and then you chipped in today, and it was after one of your worst second shots of the day, too.  How were you able to collect yourself and did you feel like you had some unfinished business on that hole?
MARIA FASSI: Yes, that second shot was definitely not intended to end up the way it did, but I was in good position.  From there, I took a good look at the green and was able to kind of see what I wanted the ball to do, how it was going to break or how fast or how slow it was going to be and I just picked a spot and it was looking pretty good, I honestly didn't think it was going to go in.
From my angle, it didn't look like it was going to go in but it ended up going in and it was pretty nice, because I felt like I should have gotten an eagle yesterday on that one.  It was a little nice payback from last round.
Q. How long was that shot?
MARIA FASSI: Well, the second shot, I was like 230 into the hole, and then my chip was probably like 40 yards or so, yeah.
Q. Can you just tell us about the two birdies coming in, 7 and 9, and were you aware of where you are?  Did you notice your position in the tournament?
MARIA FASSI: Well, No. 7, it's a drivable par 4.  I hit a hybrid to the green, so it's a pretty big advantage for me, that hole is.  I played it during the practice round.  Played it good yesterday.  I actually pushed my shot yesterday and had a tough second shot, but I chipped it to like two feet.
So it was a really nice shot.  I was able to make that putt, and even though I wasn't necessarily aware of where I stood, I knew that I had to post an under-par round, if I wanted to be in a good place for Saturday.
And then, I actually hit a pretty good shot on No. 8.  Missed about like a 15-footer, I missed it for birdie, and then on No. 18, or 9, I guess, was -- I knew I could be aggressive there.  I knew I could get there on two and have a pretty good look at eagle and birdie.
Hit it over the green.  Hit a pretty decent chip I thought and was able to make the putt, so it was really exciting.  Just to make that last putt was really nice.  I even yelled and stuff and got really excited.  It was I guess nice to see that I can play under pressure and I can do what I have to do when I have to.
Q. And can I also ask you, the final round, I know the significance of playing at Augusta National is not lost on anyone.  But you, personally, are going to play also in front of your inspiration, Lorena, and you are the an Annika Award winner, as well.  You are going to play in front of those two legends.  How that going to be like?
MARIA FASSI: I mean, I think it's amazing that not only I get to play at Augusta National, but I get to play it in front of the amount of people that there's going to be out there; that I get to play in front of I admire so much as Lorena, Annika, Nancy, Se Ri Pak, they are all amazing.  You can't choose one to be the most amazing one.
So it's going to be really exciting to be out there, and hopefully we can put up a show for them and for everyone that's out there.  I think it's going to be a lot of fun.  I know I'll be having a lot of fun.  So hopefully golf follows, and I post a good round out there, as well.
Q. If I'm not mistaken, weren't you on The Today Show when they unveiled the trophy?
MARIA FASSI: Yes.
Q. When you saw the trophy, what did you think, and what would it mean to you to win it?
MARIA FASSI: Well, I think it's beautiful, and I know how much it means and how much work there's been behind the making of that trophy.  Every little piece has been thought of.  Having the magnolia tree and then having all the flowers around the base of the trophy, I don't know, it's just everything is so special about that trophy and about this tournament.
They have certainly done an amazing job of making sure there's everything, every single little detail is taken care of and I mean, of course, winning it would be a dream, I think.  Being able to compete out here and to play against the best in the world and to come out on top would be an amazing thing.  I guess I'll be a part of history, and even more so than we are already.
Yeah, it will be really exciting, and I just hope I can get a good chance at it on Saturday.
Q. You said you were shaking yesterday on the first tee.
MARIA FASSI: Yes.
Q. But that was a good thing.  When did you learn to embrace pressure, and how did you do that?
MARIA FASSI: I guess ever since I was a little girl, I enjoyed playing around people and having people watch me.  My absolute favorite thing during practice rounds would be when people would like you hit through, because I was like, okay, I'm going to hit it close.
I guess I've always enjoyed that feeling, and then I also think that with our family's background in soccer, like I love the adrenaline of like a final that's close.  And of course, it's a lot nicer when you get to win and not so fun when you lose, but yeah, I've always had, I guess, a lot of respect, but love at the same time, for that feeling.
I felt the same way today, and I was really happy I was feeling that same way and I piped it down the middle, and I was like, okay, you got it.
I don't really try to see it as a negative.  I try to see it as a positive thing because I care of what I'm doing.  I care the way I perform, and I -- yeah, I think that's how it it's shown.
Q. So you're happy to be in the final group tomorrow?
MARIA FASSI: Yeah, if it's that way, I'll be excited, especially with Jennifer, it's going to be, like I said before, it's going to be a birdie-fest out there.  It's going to be a lot of fun.
She's great to play with and we're good friends, so if it's going to be with her in the final group, it's going to be a really fun one to watch.
Q. It's supposed to play quite a bit tomorrow, and obviously Augusta historically favors high ball hitters, so knowing that the course could potentially play a lot longer than expected on Saturday, do you feel like that could play into the hands of you and a select few other girls who hit the ball the way you do?
MARIA FASSI: Yes, definitely.  I think even out here, my length was a huge advantage.  It was -- it allowed me to make the amount of birdies that I made.  It also got me in some trouble, but I think at Augusta, it's going to be really beneficial just to hit those high shots that land soft to those greens.
I know they can be really tricky pins out there, and yeah, I think my length is going to be playing in my favor.  I I've just got to be able to manage, know when to rip it and know when to hold back a little bit and be smart.
So I think that's going to be the challenge for me out there, just to know what to do and what not to do.
Q. How many putts are you going to hit on those greens tomorrow, knowing the way you putted the first two days here?
MARIA FASSI: I just want to hit a lot of long putts and try to get a feel of the speed.  I know there's a lot of really big breaks out there, and I just want to get comfortable with having to aim three, four yards right of the hole for it to go and come back, and I just want to be really comfortable with those so that I can, yeah, just be kind of aggressive but smart at the same time when I'm on the green and just try to not have those like 4- or 5-footers coming back for par that wear you out.
I think I'll be focusing a lot on my speed, and of course, inside five, six feet, it's going to be crucial because I know I'm going to have a few of those on Saturday.
Q. Can I just ask you two or three questions about playing at Augusta National.  What is your most unforgettable Masters memory of all-time, of all the Masters that you have seen?
MARIA FASSI: Definitely when Angel Cabrera won.  With my family being from Argentina and I actually know him -- I didn't know him then but I know him now.  I think it was nice to see him win.  It was hard to see him lose against Scott a few years later.
Q. On Friday, when you are out there, is there any shot that you remember from the Masters that you want to try out during the practice round?
MARIA FASSI: Well, I could tell you a million of those that I want to try out there.
Q. Which would be the No. 1?
MARIA FASSI: I don't know, I guess hitting it on two on either 13 or 15, just going for those, those par 5s.  I think they are fun.  Yeah, I'm most excited about those two, I guess.
Q. And is there any special preparation that you did, knowing for these three months, that you will be playing at Augusta National?  Is there anything special that you practiced, just keeping Augusta National in mind?
MARIA FASSI: I mean, everything I do, and I did this past three months, I think that was kind of in a way working my way up to this week.  But at the same time, I had a few other tournaments that I had to take care of, and I was trying to, yeah, of course, focus and prepare for this week, but at the same time, I had to stay present and be where I was and get ready for that tournament that I had in the next week or the weeks after that.
And luckily enough, the courses that we played, our home course in Fayetteville, Blessings, it's an amazing golf course, and it's similar to what I see out here.  Really slopey, fast greens, and it's long and it's challenging.
So I think that for me, it was really fortunate that I get to practice it every day.  I guess wedges have been one of the things that I've been working on for the most part these last few months.  That's the one thing that I've been focusing on, and it's good to see that all that I've done is paying off.
THE MODERATOR: Thanks so much, Maria.  Good luck on Saturday.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT