AUGUSTA NATIONAL WOMEN'S AMATEUR
April 3, 2019
Maria Fassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A lot of build up throughout the week, how was it inside the ropes when you finally read it up for your first round?  
MARIA FASSI: Well, I was shaking like so bad on the first tee before I was about to tee off.  I love that feeling.  I think it was worthy of how big this tournament is, and I mean, we're being part of history, and I think that if I would have not been nervous, I would have been worried.   
So I was kind of glad that I felt that way, but then at the same time, it was just like, okay, you're here, let's just enjoy and I just wanted to hit the fairway, No. 1, and as soon as I did that, I was like, okay, you've got this.  I've played enough to where I could handle it, and it's just amazing.  It's a treat to be out here.   
 Q.  How much do you think your length is going to be an advantage on this course and particularly this weekend, too?  
MARIA FASSI: Yeah, I think that is definitely playing in my favor.  I can hit a lot of drivers this week, so it's nice to see.  I'm not used to hitting ten drivers a round, and I get to do that out here.  I think it allows me to be a little more aggressive with my second shot.  It gives me a lot of confidence.   
Yeah, it's really nice that I'm able to use my length and even though today I wasn't hitting my driver necessarily how I would have liked, it was still -- I didn't really get in too much trouble.   
So yeah, I think I've got that going for me and I'm excited to be out here.   
 Q.  What did you hit on 14 up the hill for your second shot?  
MARIA FASSI: Almost chipped in, yeah.   
 Q.  You guys are used to 54-hole tournaments.  How do you approach an event like this where it's spaced out?  
MARIA FASSI: It's definitely different.  Like you said, we're not used to having two days and like a practice round in between.  But at the same time, I think it's an opportunity for us just to look at one round at a time and one shot at a time, and I think at least for me, it's playing in my favor.  It's keeping me present, I guess, and yeah, I guess it will be different, especially after the practice round on Friday, but again, it's just one round at a time, one shot at a time.   
 Q.  Can you talk more about the Kaylee's club situation on Monday and take us through that, what exactly happened?  
MARIA FASSI: Yes, so my flight was leaving at like six in the morning on Monday, and I was -- well, I drove up to the golf course and I was going to leave my car, and my assistant coach was going to take me to the airport.   
Yeah, I was still asleep and saw a bag and grabbed it and didn't even think about looking at the name tag or anything.  Of course, we all have the same travel bags and they looked exactly the same to me at four in the morning.   
Yeah, I got to the airport and when I was putting it into -- like for them to weigh it, I saw that it said Kaye lay and I thought, oh my God, what am I going to do.   
So I just called Mike, our assistant right away, and I said, "I have Kaylee's bag, just make sure she brings mine," because she had a later flight that day.   
So I wasn't worried.  I knew she was going to be getting in around three that day and I was like, that's fine.  Then her flight got delayed a couple hours and she was going to miss her connection and another flight cancelled, and I was like, you'd better get here because I need my clubs for tomorrow.  But she ended up getting here at like 7:30 or 8:00 around there.  It was really nice to see her with my clubs.   
 Q.  So you didn't get a chance to practice Monday?  
MARIA FASSI: Yeah, I probably would have just come out here and chipped and putt.   
 Q.  Did you think it was good?  
MARIA FASSI: Yeah, I think at the end, it ended up being fine.  I was pretty tired from that early morning that I had, and yeah, I think now, I think it was best.  I went and worked out.  I had a nice shower.  Just like took a nap and took it easy that day, and I was ready to go for a practice round yesterday.   
So I think in the end, it wasn't too bad.   
 Q.  How much different are Kaylee's golf clubs from your golf clubs?  
MARIA FASSI: Way different.  My shafts are stiffer and heavier.  She has another putter.  I have a blade.  Our wedges are the only thing that's the same but the shaft is completely different.  It's not like I could have played with hers, but yeah.   
 Q.  So that was Sunday?  
MARIA FASSI: Monday.   
 Q.  So you didn't do anything on Monday?  
MARIA FASSI: No.  I was good for yesterday.   
 Q.  Your brother has "resilient" on his back arms.  What's that?  Do you know what that's for, and is that a word that describes the whole family after the club situation?  
MARIA FASSI: Yeah, I really liked what he got.  It's a nice word to describe our family.  We try to overcome tough situations and look at what's good.  I think it's really fitting for him and our family.   
 Q.  Your mom is "flaca"?  
MARIA FASSI: Literally it means skinny or thin.   
 Q.  She's telling you to hit it thin?  
MARIA FASSI: She'd better not.  But it's just, I guess in the Latino communities, just like saying honey, kind of thing.  She calls me flaca and gordo, skinny and fat, the opposite, she calls me both.  But it's loving.   
 Q.  So who is here, your parents, your brothers, two young best brothers, and then who are the other people?  
MARIA FASSI: They are my parents's friends, but they are basically like, yeah, grew up with their kids.  We've been friends since we were born.  So it's nice to have family out here and to be able to share this experience with them.   
 Q.  Talking to Olivia, she said it feels like a little mini-major kind of.  Would you agree with that?  
MARIA FASSI: Yeah, 100 percent.  Like I said, we have the best field there is, and I'm sure it's going to stay like that until the end of time.  We get to play in two amazing golf courses that the men -- it's nice to be able to be out here.   
 Q.  It's a tough field and tough event and you had a mix-up earlier in the week.  Just talk us through that.  
MARIA FASSI: Yeah, it was -- I brought the wrong clubs to Augusta.  Not the start of the week that you would have liked, but it was fine.  At the end I brought my teammates, Kaylee's clubs, and she ended upbringing mine.  But her flight kept getting delayed and I was getting kind of nervous at the end but it was fine.   
I was able to take it easy on Monday and work out, relax.  Just take a nap and be just, I guess, ready for what was coming.  I had a great practice round yesterday, and I was able to get what I needed to get done.   
I mean, I feel ready for what's coming this week.   
 Q.  You mentioned Virginia --  
MARIA FASSI: No, we were just traveling together and she was saying, well, you can maybe like go practice with her clubs.  But our clubs are completely different.  Like I use pretty heavy clubs and stiff shafts, and not many players, if any, have kind of what I need.   
So it would have not been helpful, I guess.  I think it was just more of like I feel bad for you; if there's anything I can do, just let me know.   
That was really nice of her to, yeah, say that.   
 Q.  Obviously you have friends out here.  Does that take the stress off?  
MARIA FASSI: Yes, 100 percent.  It kind of feels like an amazing college tournament for a minute without just, I mean, where we are and the amount of people that is out here.   
It definitely takes a little weight off our shoulders to know the people we're playing with and we're friends with all of them, and yeah, it's just more of like a friendly, amazing tournament, which is great.   
 Q.  After today's round, has it hit you at all, if I keep this up, I'll be playing at Augusta National in a couple days?  
MARIA FASSI: Not really.  I'd like to stay just present and focused on what I'm doing and where I'm at.  I knew I had to go out there and post a number and I did.  And I think I just have to come back tomorrow morning and do the same thing, and then see what happens from there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT