U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2015
Maria Fassi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. First of all, that was a really nice finish you had.  Can you talk about that a little bit?MARIA FASSI: Yeah, it's always great to finish with a birdie.  I don't know, I had like a couple bogeys towards the end of the round, so finishing with a birdie makes it even better.  It feels better.Q. Can you talk about your first nine?  It looked like you had three birdies; is that right?MARIA FASSI: Yeah, I started hitting the ball really good, like I wasn't missing anything, and I just, like, took advantage of that and made some putts and just keep going through my round with just like easy pars, tap-ins.  I didn't have like any complications during my round, so that helped a lot, and when I had the chance, I took it, and that's why I had three birdies in the first nine.Q. It looks like you have a lot of people out here supporting you.  How great is that?MARIA FASSI: Yeah, it's always great to see Mexican people here because we don't get that much.  Just getting some Mexicans to come and watch, it's really good.  I don't know, you feel like they have lots of support, so it makes it even better like to share that round with them, and just having them cheering for you.Q. Right now you're at the top of the leaderboard.  How important is it to have a top seed in this event?MARIA FASSI: Yeah, I think, like, the ones that make it to match play, like all of them are really good players.  I would say just making it top 10 or making it to the 64, it's not a big deal.  We all have really good golf and we all can, like, play really good.  I mean, just making it in like top 5 right now, it's great for me just to see that I'm playing good and that I can do really good, but match play is just like a different tournament and everyone can win, even though it's like 64, as I said.Q. Speaking of match play being different, how does your mentality change?MARIA FASSI: I don't know, I'm pretty aggressive during my rounds, so I just like try to play the same as I do.  Match play, it's one of my favorite kinds of like playing golf, so that makes it better, as well. But just focusing on myself, doing the less mistakes that I can, and it should be good.Q. What are your thoughts on the golf course?MARIA FASSI: I think the golf course is beautiful.  It's in amazing shape, and I think we are like really honored to play here.  The course has been nice to me, so that helps.  I don't know, I really like this course.  I like the old-fashioned courses, so I'm pretty excited about playing here.Q. Is this a lot different from the courses in Mexico?MARIA FASSI: Not really.  Most of the ones, like the nice ones, are pretty much like this.  Of course this one is a little tough.  But I'm kind of used to playing with trees and stuff, so that helps a lot, and just me liking the course, it's like also better for you like to golf.  I don't know, I just want to enjoy this course because I'm really honored to play here.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT