U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
October 10, 2017
Chad Wilfong
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Mid-Amateur is old news to you in the game of golf.  What are you feeling right now that you've gotten through stroke play and have a match play win under your belt.  
CHAD WILFONG: I don't know.  I don't think too much about the tournament itself, where we are, what we're trying to do.  My college coach always said the hole is the same size no matter where you go.   
I think any time you play at a high level, if you show up and you hit good shots, you can win.  If you don't, you're not going to win.  You got to play well to beat these guys.  They all made it to match play, and then whoever I play next round will have won their first-round match for a reason:  because they're good players.   
You know, it's just stand over it, hit good shots, do what we've done our entire life, and hopefully (indiscernible.)   
 Q.  You guys kind of traded some haymakers early, and then you went ahead with a par on the 6th hole to win that hole.  
CHAD WILFONG: The 6th hole?  Yeah, the par-3 there, he hit a good shot in there off the tee probably about 15, 20 feet behind the hole.   
I hit it in there about 12 feet.  We both missed.  He left his a little short.  He left himself a pretty tough kind of downhill right-to-lefter just outside of getting range, and he missed that one.   
And then...   
 Q.  You came back and birdied the next hole.  
CHAD WILFONG: The next hole, I never putted.  He hit it in the left rough there and I think he tried to take on the pin.  Hit it a little bit over the green.  He really had a bad lie over the green.  Was all he could do I think to get it to stop on the green somewhere near the hole.   
And he did.  He hit an okay shot there, which left him a 20-footer that he didn't make.  Neither one of us made a whole lot putts out there.   
 Q.  Were you in good shape on 7?  
CHAD WILFONG: I probably had 15 feet for birdie, kind of up the hill.  So he gave me that one.  I think he needed it.  I wasn't going to three-putt it.   
Then we go to the next hole, and I kind of -- we both hit terrible 7-irons over to the left.  Just awful looking golf shots.   
Two pretty good pitches, and both holed six-footers, thereabouts, to halve that hole.   
Then I kind of gave him one on 9.  I hit a pretty good 7-iron in there.  He had about a 55-footer or so.  He hit a beautiful putt up there to tap in, so I gave him that one.   
I left mine about, I don't know, three feet short coming down the hill and missed that one pretty much the same way he did on the 6th hole.  Kind of felt like we just gave each other those two holes.   
Then he kind of missed a couple iron shots there on the back that cost him.  I was able to kind of get them on the green and get it up there for par.  We didn't do anything spectacular.  Just try not to make a mistake.   
Unfortunately for him, he just made a couple more mistakes than I did.   
 Q.  Seems like you kept yourself out of trouble for the most part.  
CHAD WILFONG: Yeah, and that's part of it.  When you play a hard golf course, you kind of have to play off your opponent a little bit.  I hit first in a lot of the fairways.  Was able to get in this there not terribly close but 15, 20 feet, where I think at least in his mind he knew it was a makable putt.   
And obviously Scott being a good player, he's certainly got the guts to stand over it and attack those pins, and he did.  He just missed a couple out there.  That made all the difference.  I don't think I made -- I made one bogey the hole I three-putted.  I didn't really give a lot back to him.   
Like I said, neither one of us made a ton of birdies.  He made a couple more mistakes than I did, and that was the difference.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT