NCAA MEN'S REGIONAL SEMIFINALS AND FINALS: NEW YORK
March 25, 2017
Frank Martin
Chris Silva
Maik Kotsar
PJ Dozier
Duane Notice
Sindarius Thornwell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We'll start with questions for the student-athletes after an opening statement from coach.   
FRANK MARTIN: Where's my guy from last night?   
THE MODERATOR: He'll be back tomorrow.   
FRANK MARTIN: He'll be back?  I got to tell you now, when that young man asked the question he asked yesterday, I'm not trying to get any national attention on this, my SID told me that it's become like a story.  I wish I could express myself like that when I was his age.  That was, I'm telling you, that is as articulate and good a question as I've been asked all year.  That was powerful stuff.   
 Q.  He's trying to take Andy Katz's job.  
FRANK MARTIN: That's easy.  That's easy.  You tell Andy I said that, too.  No, obviously when you're one of the teams that have an opportunity to still play at this time of year, you're fortunate that as a coach, you get to practice and play with guys like these five that are with me.  And it's a whole lot of fun.  Gators know us, we know them, we have to rehearse some stuff today, we'll continue to rehearse some things later on tonight at the hotel.  This time of year it's all in the mind.  You've got to be mentally prepared for what's coming.  We're excited, I know they are, and then we just got to go out and figure it out.  Round three.  One of them, you know, that we got the first, they got the second, now we're at the neutral site and let's see what happens.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions for coach or the student-athletes?   
 Q.  You mentioned last night that you didn't want to make the same mistake as the last time were you in this position.  Could you just go through that story again about what happened before the K State Butler game, in 2010.  
FRANK MARTIN: Yeah, it's kind of similar to the situation Florida was in last night.  We were in Salt Lake City, we had the last game of the night, and it happened to go into double overtime, we got back to the hotel, 2:30 in the morning, we were assigned the practice time.  We could have chosen to practice at a different site, but we don't play at those other sites, so I wanted to practice at the facility and they gave us a time that they gave us.  And we found out that they, the Kentucky West Virginia game was picked to be the game put on the prime time hour.  So then they made our game the first game out of the chute.  So that means that we tipped off at Salt Lake, I'm getting old, I don't remember things as well as I need to, I want to say about 1 p.m. Salt Lake time.  So, less than 36 hours after we arrived at our hotel, we were back playing Butler, which by the way, was everyone's darling because it was Butler.  They were the only team there that had two NBA players on their roster.  And we had to go play them.  And we slept walked the whole first half.  And I'll never forgive myself, because that practice I had a group just like these guys, they just lay it on the line and give you everything they got.  And in that in between practice, because of the time we got back, how soon we had to play, we went on the court and we did nothing but shoot balls and walk through things.  And that's not the way we practice.  You can ask them, we don't practice that way.  And I told myself, if I'm ever in the same situation, I've got to practice our guys the way that we have trained for six months, not anyway differently.  That's what happened then.   
 Q.  In this situation, is ignorance bliss or do you have to sort of guard against them being overwhelmed by the moment?  
FRANK MARTIN: We're playing a team we know.  We're not playing the moment.  We're not playing a building.  We're not playing the NCAA Tournament.  We're playing Florida Gators.  And our focus should be playing a team that we have played twice.  Playing a team that we beat and playing a team that beat us, too.  So, we'll be humbled because of the opponent, because there's respect there.  We'll be very confident in who we are.  And I know I trust these guys will be -- Dana, these guys didn't hide when we couldn't beat the chairs you're sitting on.  They're definitely not going to hide now that they have confidence that we're a good team.   
 Q.  What's the most disrespectful thing you heard anyone say about the SEC this year, whether from a reporter or a pundit or somebody?  And what has the league shown by getting three teams to the Elite 8?  
FRANK MARTIN: I'll take that, because I don't know if they read the media.  I do.  You know, I don't know.  They're worried about me and themselves.  I don't know that they worry too much about what people say about our league.   
I'll use an example and it was it happened during the conference tournament.  Kentucky beat Alabama in the semi-finals.  Alabama had just beaten us the night before.  And Kentucky beat Alabama in an absolute brawl.  Just a game that came down to the very end.  And the opinion was, well, Kentucky just sneaks by again.  They're playing with fire.  When they play real competition, it's going to burn them.  That's disrespectful.  That's somebody that -- that's the kind of rhetoric that exists out there, not just for the first time, its just consistently and it gets old and boring.  But there's only one way to change it, and it's by doing what these guys are doing.  We can sit and gripe and mope and complain and blame, they're not about that.  And I'm not about that.  I just let people know I don't appreciate that negativity, but the only way to get people to shhh is by doing what these guys have done.   
 Q.  Sindarius, PJ, both of you.  You guys have talked this whole run about not succumbing to the pressure because there is no pressure.  A lot of people were picking against you.  Now that the Final Four is on the line, do you sense that pressure coming back and do you pay it any attention?  
SINDARIUS THORNWELL: No.  We still don't feel like it's pressure, because we're still getting picked against, and we're still going in as the underdog.  And so when you go in as the underdog, you don't have any expectations on anything, so we just playing free and having fun.   
PJ DOZIER: Just like he said.  We have come out to compete.  No matter what anyone say, we come out as the underdogs.  So this is just as he said, there's really no pressure.   
 Q.  Coach, people have characterized your defense as very physical and, but having faced Florida twice and with that familiarity, how would you characterize their defense?  
FRANK MARTIN: Very similar.  Very similar.  I find it funny that they say that we're a physical basketball team and so's Florida, defensively and offensively.  We're not physical because we foul and push, we're physical because we don't get out of the way.  Some teams get out of the way.  We don't get out of the way.  We just don't let you push us.  But we we're not trying to foul, that's not what we do, we don't give up on plays.  We're constantly rotating, constantly talking.  But Florida's very similar.  Different techniques, they switch a lot, they use an unbelievable size that they have to their advantage.  They don't get out and deny as aggressively as we do.  But the end result's pretty -- different ways of doing things to get the same kind of result.  But at the end of the day, they're also very physical defensively, very disciplined, they don't get out of the way, they don't, you know, you might get a basket here and there and make you think, okay, here it goes and they just, they just stay with it.  A lot like us.   
 Q.  Can you say a few things about your assistant coaches.  And do you think a run like this can help a guy like Matt get some good decent looks as head coach?  
FRANK MARTIN: Yeah, Figg's -- it's just a matter of time.  We made a run at Kansas State and my strength coach, Scott Greenawalt, Matt Figger, Andy Assaley, Brad Underwood, all those guys were with us when we came here.  And the same group.  Same exact staff that we had over there.  Those guys signed up, and we have an unbelievable amount of loyalty towards one another.  And that consistency that we have as a staff, I think relays to all the players.  They see how consistent we are, how loyal we are with one another, so it makes them be loyal to each other and loyal to everything that we do.   
But Matt -- Perry Clark's on my staff.  Perry's phenomenal in helping me, he's won 400 games as a head coach.  PC stays in my ear.  Like, everyone thinks that you're assistants just sit there and agree with the head coach.  PC's job is, he's not thin-skinned, to telling me what I'm -- he thinks I'm doing wrong and me not agreeing with him.  He doesn't sit there and pout.  He, that's why he's so good at what he does.  How much he helps me.   
Matt Figger is going to be an unbelievable head coach as soon as he given opportunity.  I think Brad Underwood has shown that he's pretty good at it.  I go back to my high school days, I had six assistant coaches in my high school team become head high school coaches.  I take a lot of pride.  I give those assistants a lot of responsibilities, they will tell you.  The assistants run the scouting reports.  Not me.  They do.  They, I'm there to support them in the scout.  I'm trying to help them prepare to become head coaches, I ask them to teach, I ask them to coach.  We, Bruce Shingler, who is on our staff, he's my new guy.  He was a GA for me my first year as a head coach, he's phenomenal in his own way.  I tell you funny stuff about Bruce, he's very soft spoken, but there's a guy on our team that gets him aggravated all the time, and it's -- we'll be in drills and if I'm on that side of the court, we don't even have to look, we hear Bruce's voice and we know who is in the drill.   
So we have got a phenomenal staff.  Those guys, I'm not real smart, I work hard, I'm not real smart, that's why I end up trusting in people and I surround myself with people that know what they're doing so they can help me and most importantly, help these guys over here.   
 Q.  Sindarius and PJ, what's the biggest difference in the manner in which you guys are able to close out games this season as opposed to last season.  
SINDARIUS THORNWELL: I think it's just a matter of everybody just learning from the experience, you know.  Every year we have gotten better at something when it comes to games.  Every year we won more games.  And this year, I think it's just a matter of not wanting to lose those close games at the end and learning and learning how to finish games, and I think that's really it.   
PJ DOZIER: Just as he said, I think it's definitely the experience.  Last year our leadership was really good, but this year I think our leaders now learned from those experiences and are now able to lead the team to finish the game.   
 Q.  Frank, you went through a stretch in late February, you felt like your defense was off a little bit and your guys weren't getting out on some shooters when you played Florida the last time.  Just how did you guys solve that into March and get back to defending at a high level?  
FRANK MARTIN: We just went through something every team goes through.  We slipped a little bit.  We weren't off by a lot, it wasn't our attitude, we just slipped a little bit.  We played really good teams on the road.  Played Florida on the road, played Vanderbilt on the road, played Ole Miss on the road, and all those teams, you know, it gets back to the first question about the whole SEC situation.  Played Arkansas at home, they got real good guards and they attack you, and they're hard guards.  We just slipped a little bit and those guys made hard shots.  Like we lost to Alabama at home, they had two players that combined averaged nine points a game, they scored 44 that day.  You know, just some guys scored baskets that -- it happens.  We started getting right again that game at Florida.  We still weren't there, but that's the game where we started getting right again, where we -- I thought we were starting to do things the right way again.   
It all starts guarding the basketball.  When we guard the ball the right way, and our ball screen coverage is good, and we keep the ball from getting in the paint.  If the ball doesn't get in the paint, then you don't have to rotate to shooters.  And that's where we have to continue to work at every single day.   
 Q.  Coach, I believe you got a big raise to come to South Carolina.  I'm just wondering, the revenue stream in the SEC now with the SEC network, obviously football generates a lot of revenue, is that trickling into basketball now?  And can you address just how much commitment and resources SEC schools are putting toward basketball?  
FRANK MARTIN: I understand your question, but why do you have to bring up the fact that I got a raise to go to South Carolina?  What's that have to do with anything?   
 Q.  Because I'm sure some of that resource money was able to --  
FRANK MARTIN: Have you ever taken another job for less money?   
 Q.  Absolutely not.  
FRANK MARTIN: So why would you have to bring that one up?  If I had lost, I wouldn't have a job.  You know, it's part of the deal.  I don't know where that part came from.   
But I don't know.  I read something the other day where after we beat Duke, our merchandise jumped by 320 percent.  I remember at K State, after my first year as a head coach, not the year I was Huggs' assistant, we had Beasley and those guys.  The following year, we set a school record for total number of applicants and the most minority applicants in the history of the school.  It's powerful.  It's powerful.  It's an unbelievable platform and these guys, when you take care of your business like these guys have, and you use the opportunity that this university's providing these young men, and they do it the right way, the way they're doing it.  I'm not speaking about they do it differently than other teams, I'm just talking about the guys that play for me, they're setting themselves up for life.  If you're a business person that has season tickets, and you're watching these guys play 35 times a year, and you see the fact that they go in the community and they set school records for community service how involved they are in the community, they're getting hired.  The day they're done, that they say I don't feel like playing ever again, they're set up for life.  That's what it's about.  And it's a two-way street.  Everyone benefits from the way your teams play.  It's no different than any or business out there.  People don't work, the business fails.  You end up losing your job, bankrupt, whatever.  When everyone works in the same direction, everybody benefits from the situation.  And that's what's happening right now.  I'm right in the middle of this whole thing right now, so I really don't know -- I know I can tell you this, our attendance has gone from 3,000 the first game I ever coached in the building to averaging 14,000 a game.  So, obviously there's more revenue being generated in attendance.  I've got to think that because of our success, we all know how this works.  Teams -- you get teams in the NCAA Tournament, it means more money for each institution in your conference, more money for your own institution as you move through the tournament.   
So, from all those standpoints, I think it all adds up and everyone has a better -- you realize the platform these guys have right now?  Being able to sit here and speak to you, speak to the world, play the way they play, show the world how hard and committed, how hard they play, and how committed they are.  If I'm an employer, I'm giving them a job.  That's, it's an unbelievable platform that they have right now.   
 Q.  Chris, have you talked to Isaiah Briscoe in the last day or so, have you guys texted and what does it mean that both you guys are in the Elite 8?  And can you talk about the dunks where he would throw it off the backboard at Roselle Catholic and you would throw it down?  
FRANK MARTIN: Oh, so that's why we can't get him to dunk the ball.  We've got to throw it off the backboard.  Oh.   
CHRIS SILVA: Yeah, we just talked yesterday and, like, we keep talking and staying in contact how everybody, like, each other's doing.   
 Q.  What did he say, what did you say?  
CHRIS SILVA: He asked me how I played and I said, I think I played all right.  And I asked him how he played and he told me he played good and that's it.   
 Q.  And the dunks, how much fun was that?  
CHRIS SILVA: That was like a signature game night, you know, like when we dominate and we're having fun.  And when he is in fast break, he always knows I'm going behind him, so he knows he got to throw it off the board.   
THE MODERATOR: All right.  Thank you, guys.  Take questions for coach.   
FRANK MARTIN: Mike, Mike?  By the way, I did change jobs for less money.  I used to make 32 grand as a school teacher and I left to go to Northeastern for 28 grand.  Just for the record.  So you see how smart I am.   
 Q.  You know how hard it is to win basketball games anywhere, but especially this league.  What has it been like, from a coach to coach standpoint, to see what Mike's been able to do replacing a legend in Billy Donovan and getting this program to where it is so quickly?  
FRANK MARTIN: I -- Mike's tremendous.  Mike is real good.  Mike was Andy Kennedy's assistant, and Andy and I are extremely good, close friends.  So I got to know Mike.  Obviously we all know who his dad is, he's just an unbelievable human being.  But I got to know Mike through Andy.  And Mike is just real good.  He's letting the world realize how good he is.  Because I sat around -- realize, when Billy got it started at Florida, his first two real good players he signed played for me in high school.  Anthony Grant, who is my son's godfather was Billy's assistant.  So I'm very, very close with that situation.  And I always said poor guy, whoever replaces Billy.  Oh my God, poor guy.   
Mike's been unreal.  Not only -- we're talking about this year, the way he did it last year, and he won.  Now he's got those guys playing through his eyes.  That's powerful stuff.  That shows the kind of leadership ability that he has, the kind of staff that he has.  I'm -- Mike's one of those guys that's, he's not a rising star, he is a star in this business.  And I'm -- unfortunately, we got to play each other, because I root for him a lot.   
 Q.  Speaking of jobs, the young man from Sports Illustrated Kids yesterday asked you about defense, is it attitude or technique.  And you said best question.  You said attitude.  So in a day and age where kids want dunks and 25, how do you get your kids to play on that end the way you get them to play?  
FRANK MARTIN: This is something I ask our players all the time.  And I usually do it at the beginning of the year.  I said, are there more good NBA teams or bad NBA teams?  And they sit around and they're like, I said seriously.  Do more teams have winning records or losing records in the NBA?  They say, losing records.  I say, okay.  Pick a guy on any of those teams that have a losing record.  And a guy that you think is no good.  And they will call out names.  And I'll say, all right, if I bring that guy in this gym, he's beating you guys 15-0, every single one of you, one after the other.  So it's not a talent thing.  There's a lot of individually talented people in this world.  It's about comitting to one another, it's about playing for each other, it's about challenging each other to make each other great.  That's what it's about.  You got to connect.  So that's how we preach.  And if you focus in on the guy that's scoring points for you, then the other guys feel left out.  But if you make it about the unity of everyone succeeding together, we use defense to sell that.  And then that mindset that we use defensively, then funnels to how we teach offense and that's the way it's worked for me since 1985 and I just I'm too stubborn to change.  I didn't know Andy was here.  I was just lying about you losing your job.   
 Q.  I snuck in.  Frank, how would you describe the run that you've been on this last week and a half?  
FRANK MARTIN: Unbelievable.  I'm not going to sit here and tell you I never expected this to happen.  I don't sit around -- I dream a lot.  I dream about what if and what and how about that one day.  I usually do that early in the mornings when I wake up and I'm having a cup of coffee by myself before I get my kids going.  Just to make me understand that I have to take advantage of that day in front of me.  And you're never going to achieve any dreams if you doubt, if you shortcut, if you have negativity, so that's kind of what gets me going every day.  That's how I kind of get my days going.  And I dreamt of South Carolina being in this moment, but then I don't go about my job every day acting like we're getting there right now, this is the day, this is the year.  And I just take advantage of the next day and that's what I try to tell our players.  I can't tell them this, but I'm in an unbelievable ride right now.  These kids have just refused to not believe, they have refused to listen to outside voices, and they have committed to each other.  And because of that, you know, we're in an unbelievable moment right now.  And I know I haven't slept well for the last 10, 12 days.  That's okay.  That's all right.  I got plenty of time to sleep in April and May.  And I owe it to them to give them every ounce of energy I have left so we can make this season finish off whatever -- Andy, there's only two alternatives here, we're either going to celebrate unbelievably tomorrow night or we're going to cry real hard.  There's no in between.  It's one or the other.  And that's what happens when you invest as much as these kids have invested in it.   
 Q.  Florida obviously had an end game situation that worked out pretty well for them last night and they didn't have a timeout to call.  Wondering what goes into your decision making when you get those end games, you have a timeout in your pocket and you're trying to decide, do I let the kids play or do I try to set something up and call a timeout.  
FRANK MARTIN: What's the score?  There's a lots of situations.  Any time we're tied, I'm not calling a timeout.  If we're down one, probably not calling a timeout.  That's kind of the way we rehearse.  If we're down three, we're going to foul, inside of seven, eight seconds to go.  But there's a whole lot of different situations.  You call a timeout, to go the length of the court, it allows the defense to do a better job of setting up so people can get their matchups and then they can double your point guard and all this other stuff.  If you don't call a timeout you can get the defense scrambling a little bit and I think that's kind of what happened last night.  So, I don't know.  It's, you know, sometimes you do exactly what you're trained to do and you get a perfect shot and that thing does not go in the hole.  Sometimes you get a broken play and a guy jumps off sideways one foot and throws it over his shoulder and it goes in the net.  And you can rehearse a lot, but at the end of the day, things have to go your way and breaks have to go your way and all of a sudden we look a lot smarter when that happens than we really are sometimes.   
 Q.  Kind of sticking to that theme of getting a team scrambling, so to speak.  Sindarius said last night that he felt like you guys were in Baylor's head all night.  Simple question, how does a team do that for 40 minutes?  
FRANK MARTIN: Players have a different feel than coaches from that standpoint.  Like getting in people's heads.  Because they're on the court.  They can hear what conversations the players are having amongst the teammates and all that stuff.  So they get a different feel than us on the sideline.  I'm always worried about how teams are trying to attack us, so I can prepare our guys if something's hurting us.  After the first eight, nine minutes of the game or so, I kept telling my assistants, if we don't start fouling and we keep rebounding, Baylor's going to struggle to score tonight.  That was just the feel I got from the sideline.  I felt that we were on -- not because of them, because of us -- I thought we were on point with our on ball defense.  I thought we were on point with our ball screen coverage.  I thought we were doing such a good job on the perimeter there was making it hard for them to get Motley the ball close to the basket.  They run certain plays to get Motley the ball in the post that we tried to prepare our guys for.  Mike Kotsar was unbelievable in knowing the play was coming, reading it, and beating them on the cut.  So that way Motley couldn't get his catch in his spot.  The times he did get it in his spot, we had help rotations that we had in place and those rotations were as clean as they can possible be.  So, eight, nine minutes into the game, if we didn't start getting lazy, or hand checking, our ball screen coverage kept being clean, I said, if we can keep this up, we have got a chance to make it hard for them to score.  That was just the feel I got.  Then we went to the zone and our zone was pretty good, kind of slowed them down, they had to pass a lot before they shot which made them eat clock and kept them away from just spacing and driving.  So, that was my feel on the game.  The players probably maybe heard some of the conversations amongst the other players or is, I don't know.  I just know our guys were on point.  They were really, really doing the things we asked them to to do in practice.   
 Q.  I want to follow up on a question I asked earlier just about the SEC Network, obviously, just came into being two or three years ago, a lot of money goes into that.  A lot of exposure, not just for football, but for basketball.  How has that helped you and I believe the SEC, nine of the top 20 schools in the country, SEC has the top athletic budget.  Just talk about the revenue that goes into basketball now.  
FRANK MARTIN: I don't know if I like the story you're trying to write.  I'm not a bookkeeper.  I'm not trying to be a smart aleck, obviously all the leagues are collecting unbelievable money from television revenue.   
 Q.  SEC more than the others though.  
FRANK MARTIN: Oh, then no doubt.  So, what do you think that makes the SEC?  Pretty darn good.  You know what I mean?  People don't pay for bad products, so obviously our league is doing things across the board.  Everyone wants to talk about our football.  Football's pretty good.  Go look at how many national championships have been won in all the other sports.  It's pretty darn good across the board.  So, it's a powerful conference.  Obviously, it's appealing, television wouldn't pay that much money for schools that people have no interest in watching.  So, it's got to be fairly appealing for that to happen.  Our school's not taking the money and investing it into you, you know, I don't know, a nice flower garden in the back of someone's house.  You know, we have unbelievable academic facility that costs millions and millions and millions of dollars.  We led, I can't speak for other schools, we lead, we lead the SEC in graduation rate, APR rate, all the academic numbers, I want to say it's eight consecutive years, because we have hired unbelievable people to help prepare our young people to be successful in life.  Those are the kind of things -- I've been at Northeastern, where there wasn't a lot of revenue being generated, so there wasn't a lot of money invested in basketball.  And there was 250 student-athletes in study hall with one person.  And then as a coach you tried to get involved and you were told you can't because there was concerns for academic fraud.  So, one person?  To help 250?  How can you be successful there?  You understand what I'm saying?  So, you know, it's the big, that's the thing with the big schools.  And our school's part of a league that generates serious revenue and the schools are reinvesting -- you know, reinvesting a lot of money into making the whole situation better for the guys on our team.   
 Q.  One thing I noticed about your players is how they all call you Frank instead of "coach" or "Coach Martin."  Why is it that you like that from them?  
FRANK MARTIN: It's not that I like it -- you see, everyone that acts like they know me, really knows nothing about me.  And they want to use whatever they see to create their story, that's fine that's their prerogative.  That doesn't aggravate me.  I started coaching when I was 19 years old.  I tore my ACL the year before, my high school coach asked me to come help him, because the kids in the neighborhood respected me so much.  So I coached for 16 years in high school, 13, 14 of the 16 in the same neighborhood I grew up in.  So that means I was coaching the kids of people I grew up with in the same community that had, excuse me, I got to say it, because there's no other way to say it, where people didn't have two pots to piss in, okay?  But that community is what gave me a way to get out, what helped raise me.  So I had to go back and coach the sons, the younger brothers, of people I grew up with.  If I didn't coach those guys -- and they knew me as Frank.  I was Frank.  I was not coach, I was Frank, because I was their guy from the neighborhood.  If I didn't coach those kids, I didn't have to worry about the scoreboard, it was going to be the people showing up on my house to rip my head off for disrespecting their brothers, their kids, their children.  So I had to do my part.  But I started coaching as Frank because I was coaching dudes that I grew up with.  And it's just continued.  Man, that's, no big deal.  I understand respect.  I don't call a person I don't I don't know by their first name.  And I teach them to do that.  I recruit them.  I live with them.  What am I going to do tell them?  They got to call me coach and that gives me a different platform, makes me feel important?  I'm trying to help them find success.  And this is the way I learned when I was a young adult, and helping the young people in my life find success.  So my feelings don't get hurt, you know, and now, sometimes I'm walking down the street and some guy comes up, "Hey, Frank."  If they're nice, I'm nice.  If they're rude, they probably get a look they don't like very much.  It's pretty consistent.  But I got to, that's how I started.  And I did that for 16 years and I'm not going to change because I'm older, I am who I am.   
 Q.  Despite some of the obvious rivalries in the state we saw it with Coastal Carolina baseball, the state sort of pulling the rope in the same direction.  I think that part of your fan base understood that it was good when Clemson won the national championship in football, kind of pulling the rope in the same direction.  Do your players have a sense that that's going on now, because it's all over social networking, people saying, this is great for the Palmetto state.  Do they get a sense of that?  
FRANK MARTIN: I really haven't spoken to them about that. When the season ends, then we get to talking about some of those things.  We do some great things as a team which we haven't done since January.  We call them team talks.  And we sit down and we'll talk for two hours, one hour, however long they want to speak for, on social issues.  Nothing to do with basketball.  And I've learned a lot about them in those conversations.  I'm sure when the season's over we'll engage in some of those talks, but it's awesome for our state.  What Coastal did, the attention they brought, the success that they brought to our state, what Clemson did, you know, and not there yet, but we brought a lot of attention to our basketball program.  That's also a plus for our state.  So, all those things are positives, any time you do things like that you're bringing positivity to the people that you live with, your neighbor, your community and that's what it's all about in our state.   
 Q.  I want to know your, get a feeling for your core coaching values or tenets that have been with you from the beginning.  
FRANK MARTIN: Passion, and it's what I, when I go into kids' homes, it's the way that -- like when I go back to my high school, which I do all the time, I never go see the teachers that made it easy on me.  The ones that just kind of let me get by, I got no time for.  I liked it when I was 17 years old.  But I got no time for them as a grown man now.  I go back and I hug and kiss every single one that held accountability way up here and would never let me off the hook.  So when I go in kids' homes and I recruit what I tell their parents is, you guys might be mad at me sometimes, I'm okay with that, but the one thing you never have to worry about me is that I'm going to lie or I'm going to cheat your child.  Neither one of those two things are ever happening.  And that's who I am.  That's who I am, that's what I try to invest in them, to be honest -- see I got four core values I live my life by and I run my teams by and I run my family with.  Honesty, loyalty, trust, and love.  And the only way you get to love is if you experience the other three.  When you get to love, that gets strong.  I don't care what storm comes through, you're not breaking love.  But if you get to love without the other three, you let that thing go right away.  So you got to go through the first three and that's the only way you get to love.  And that's what I live by, I run my family by that, and I try to coach our guys that way.  To get them to that place in life.  That's why people see Sindarius and they say, oh, our relationship has gotten to love.  Because we have gone through the first three stages already.   
THE MODERATOR: All right.  Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT