U.S. OPEN
September 10, 2017
Yung-Jan Chan
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CHAN-HINGIS/Hradecka-Siniakova
6-3, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How did it feel to win?
YUNG-JAN CHAN: My first title?  I mean, it's amazing.  Especially I have Martina on my side.  Of course she's experienced, but, I mean, I have been to the final several times, and it's the first time really to win a Grand Slam.  It's very, very special for me.  I mean, today was a great match.  We start with, like, really strong and really aggressive, and I think we got it pretty well?
Q. You're dominating doubles.  Any thought of a return back to singles?
MARTINA HINGIS: No thanks.  I'm doing just fine with the mixed and the doubles.  I have a couple great partners I can rely on.  You can see Latisha today, I mean, was amazing what she was capable of doing, especially at the net.  Usually I feel like I'm the good net player, but today, I mean, she showed that she's got some skills, like, Ninja Warrior, chip chop, and that's the work.
Q. You have six titles on tour coming into today but not at a slam.  Is this a weight off your shoulders at all?  Were you thinking about that at all?
MARTINA HINGIS: Well, not thinking -- I think we had definitely our chances.  Semifinals at the French.  We played really well, but they were just better on that given day, you know, Lucie and Bethanie.
Coming into this tournament, winning Cincinnati, we showed that we can play on clay, and we can play on grass, and I think already making the finals, we feel very comfortable, like, how we played in the previous two, three matches.
So I think we overcome really that kind of hurdle.  And also going into today's match, I think we played, already had a good warmup, and everything kind of fell into place.
I think it was more, like, for me especially, was a disappointing Wimbledon.  I think we coulda/shoulda done better.  I think there was even more -- like, we were pumped up to go all the way here.
Q. Tom Rinaldi asked you on the court, it was interesting, about the 20-year anniversary about the stadium and the fact you and Venus played on this stage the very first year.  Reflecting back, all you have done, 25 now major championships and everything, can you just kind of reflect on that?
MARTINA HINGIS: Well, I think it sinks in maybe little later.  Not right now.  I think we just enjoy our thing what we just accomplished today, but I think, yeah, 25 sounds pretty amazing.  I mean, I'm definitely very proud, but I think today is really the teamwork that matters.
What I have done in my career earlier, I'm very proud of that.  I was very young.  It's been 20 years, been on and off.  But I think today is even more -- it's different, it's sweeter because it's also the way how we won, the fashion.
I mean, we just played impeccable, pretty much, I mean, from the start to the end.  We didn't let the nerves kick in.  Me maybe a little bit at the end.  My serve was not -- I mean, I didn't put any first serves, and she was a great help.
I think we didn't let anybody to even believe or have a chance, especially today.
Q. You were asked also on court about the fact that when you were the young girl, you watched the woman to your right play and she was an inspiration to you.  Can you talk about what it's like to be part of tandem with her and now joint Grand Slam winners?
YUNG-JAN CHAN: Yeah, it's been a very amazing journey to make it all the way here, and since the first day we agreed to play together, next day I said, Oh, Martina said yes to me.  That means I'm going to play beside my own idol, and we are going to fight together.  That's a huge step for my whole career.
And now again to win this title together, it's really amazing.  Yeah?
Q. Going back to your early days, there was a 13-year-old girl in the junior final here.  I think she was the youngest Grand Slam junior finalist since you at the French Open.  Just wondering what you think about players getting that success very early?
MARTINA HINGIS: I mean, that's amazing.  I heard a lot of her.  I just saw her and told her, Yeah, great tournament, you know.
I didn't know whether she won or lost.  I know now because I asked her.  We just crossed -- like, I was done with doping and she just came in.  I was, like, Okay, have fun.  I didn't know.  She said she lost, but, I said, Yeah, great tournament, anyway.  I mean, it's amazing at 13 to be able to do it in the Grand Slam finals.
It's nice to see that there is still possibility, capabilities that, you know, someone at that age can make it very far in the Grand Slams, because usually you see, yeah, 16, 17-year-olds -- yeah, 15, making a breakthrough, because also earlier this year Kostyuk was 15.  But 13 is another chapter, I think.
Q. She's going to have a lot of restrictions with the age rules, maybe more than you had coming up.  How do you think those rules are fair?
MARTINA HINGIS: Well, it's a different generation, so, I mean, yeah, I was definitely not as affected.  It's loosened up again I heard.  Like, if you have the level, then you can play enough.  I mean, I saw with Belinda Bencic or even with Maria Sharapova, if you win Grand Slams, you have the level, you get extra shots, play more tournaments.
I believe if she can be able to win and make an impact in the juniors, she'll get her chance.
Q. We know that exactly almost 10 years ago, you had your first chance to play women's doubles here.  Today when you walked into Ashe, what went through your mind?  And how gratifying after 10 years you finally had your first title?
YUNG-JAN CHAN: In English?
Q. Preferably in Chinese.
YUNG-JAN CHAN: (answering in Chinese.)
MARTINA HINGIS: I agree.  (Laughter.)






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT