MERCURY INSURANCE OPEN
July 20, 2012
Yung-Jan Chan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Y. CHAN/J. Jankovic
  6‑7, 7‑6, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions. 

Q.   How are you feeling after that long match today? 
YUNG‑JAN CHAN:   Well, actually I'm not feeling that bad.   A little bit tired for sure.   Well, I thought the match was really a mental game between us.   I'm really glad that I did it.   Yeah.

Q.   How did you manage to come back physically from the medical timeout in the second set? 
YUNG‑JAN CHAN:   Well, it was really tough, and I just figured that I really needed someone to take a look at my body.   Suddenly I just feel much better.   I think was just a little bit dehydrate.   The physio help me with the water, the Gatorade, so it really helps a lot.
So my body cooled down and I could just give it a try, and I feel much better after. 

Q.   Did you think it was cramps or... 
YUNG‑JAN CHAN:   No, it wasn't cramp.   I don't really get cramp.   I know my body.   I might get dizzy because it was really warm outside.   So the physio, she told me I need drink a lot.   So it works. 

Q.   So you were getting dizzy?
YUNG‑JAN CHAN:   A little bit.   I just feel the court are really bright.   But it wasn't' that bad.   I just want to have someone to take a look before it gets worse.

Q.   So you fought off two match points also in the tiebreaker.   Talk a little bit about that. 
YUNG‑JAN CHAN:   Yeah, well, I mean, she's really a tough opponent.   Second set the tiebreak, it was really close.   I mean, even me, I don't know who going to win it. 
When she got two match points, I just feel like I know where she's going to go and I know what she going to do.   So I just try to hang there, because I'm sure that she's nervous.   I just, I don't know.   I just do what I need to do and then I think it works.   Yeah. 

Q.   Did anything about her game surprise you positively or negatively? 
YUNG‑JAN CHAN:   Well, yeah.   At the third set, like from 3‑2 to 5‑2 she looks like she's out of the match and she's tired and she don't want to hang there.   But I knew that she going to come back afterwards.
When I was serving 4‑2, I'm like, I'm going to serve faster, like the rhythm, to make myself lead 5‑2 so I have more room even she come back.   And she did it. 
Then I think it was my serve, 15‑40 at 5‑All, and it was pretty difficult, because if she win that game it would be totally different. 
Again, I'm just hanging there and try to show her that I'm not tired, I can keep playing, and I think it works. 

Q.   Did you get nervous at all at the end?
YUNG‑JAN CHAN:   At the end, not really. 

Q.   Too tired to get nervous?
YUNG‑JAN CHAN:   Yeah, I think so.   I don't have enough energy to get nervous, yeah. 

Q.   Where does this win rank for you? 
YUNG‑JAN CHAN:   Ranking, my ranking? 

Q.   No.   How does this feel for you?
YUNG‑JAN CHAN:   I feels very special for me because she was former No. 1.   Also I had the surgery the end of last year, and this is my best results since the surgery. 
Yeah, I think that really means a lot for me, because especially I was in quallies.   I think it could be one of the best match in my career.   Yeah. 

Q.   What was the surgery for? 
YUNG‑JAN CHAN:   It was (indiscernible) in my stomach, like a cyst.

Q.   How long did it take you to recover from the surgery? 
YUNG‑JAN CHAN:   I take like almost three months off.

Q.   Really?
YUNG‑JAN CHAN:   Yeah.

Q.   So you had it in November, December?   Which month?
YUNG‑JAN CHAN:   Well, I had the surgery at December and I come back at Miami, Sony Ericsson Open. 

Q.   Why didn't you have it earlier? 
YUNG‑JAN CHAN:   No, I don't even feel anything there.   Just came like emergency.   Like I wake up in the morning and it was really painful.   In 15 minutes my hair are wet and I can't feel my finger and my toes. 
So my mom bring me to emergency, and then the doctor check that there is like seven centimeter cyst inside.   I can either wait or I can take surgery.   But doctor said if I wait, if it happen in the tournament, you will panic for sure.   So I say, yeah, let's have a surgery.

Q.   So why did this cyst cause you to lose feeling in your fingers and all that?
YUNG‑JAN CHAN:   Because the cyst twist and the blood like not going through very well.   I mean, I figure if I'm having a baby it's not going to‑‑ the pain is not going to be more than that.

Q.   So you had the surgery right there in the hospital? 
YUNG‑JAN CHAN:   Yeah, it's at home so it's much easier for me.

Q.   Were you in the hospital for a long time?
YUNG‑JAN CHAN:   No, I was there for three days, and then I went back home for rest.   I couldn't play tennis for like almost two months.

Q.   Why, because of the stitches? 
YUNG‑JAN CHAN:   It's my stomach, so I can't do...

Q.   (Indiscernible.)
YUNG‑JAN CHAN:   No, no, the scar is really small, but inside they open up something, so there is...

Q.   Stitches...
YUNG‑JAN CHAN:   Yeah, so I can't do any core or abdominals.   Even running sometimes I can't twist, so I was really out of shape.

Q.   Did they call it a cyst or tumor?
YUNG‑JAN CHAN:   I think cyst.

Q.   Did they say whether or not you were more likely to have additional cysts like that coming?
YUNG‑JAN CHAN:   They said that's pretty normal for like all the female.   But mine was just bigger. 

Q.   So during your time off, what are you thinking about, your tennis career before and what you accomplished and what you wanted to do going forward this year?   Looks like your singles was very high in 2007, and your doubles has been excellent and singles not quite as good, no? 
YUNG‑JAN CHAN:   Yeah.   I mean like last three years I always have like sickness or injury.   Like 2009 I had stress fracture, 2010 I had (indiscernible), and then last year I had the surgery.   So I think it just takes a lot of energy from me, and mentally it's not easy.
Also when I'm like focused on my doubles I can't work that much on my singles, so for the scheduling it's difficult.   Now this time I feel like I'm 22, I will be 23 soon, and I don't have too much time to waste. 
So I guess I need to focus on one thing first a little bit more and we'll see how it goes.   This tournament really show me that I still can play, I still can improve, so it really helps me a lot.

Q.   So are you intentionally focusing more on singles than doubles now? 
YUNG‑JAN CHAN:   Well, I think singles I'll put a little bit more than half.   I was like 50/50, and now I want to go like 60/40, 70/30, something like that.   I'm playing doubles with my sister so it's more flexible, the schedule.

Q.   When you were top 50 ranked in 2007, didn't you think over the last few years if you got healthy you could play still that level, or were you still lacking confidence in singles?
YUNG‑JAN CHAN:   Well, I might could still play that level, because after one or two years my ranking was still like 70, 80, still pretty close.
But I don't think I really had good schedule, so I was feeling tired sometimes.   And then after I got stress fracture so I have to be out of the tour.   Comeback is always difficult, especially mentally. 
Now I feel like I'm ready to go.   Of course the health, it's the most important.   Yeah. 

Q.   You still feel any remnants of the surgery or are you fully fit now?
YUNG‑JAN CHAN:   I think I'm fully fit, yes. 

Q.   So I'm trying to remember, Australian Open doubles final 2007?
YUNG‑JAN CHAN:   Yeah.

Q.   And you were 17?
YUNG‑JAN CHAN:   Yes. 

Q.   Young. 
YUNG‑JAN CHAN:   Yeah, young.

Q.   At the time it must have surprised you.   Did you expect to have that much success that early?
YUNG‑JAN CHAN:   No, I mean, we were the wildcard team.   First thing come up in our head was just to pass the first round and don't disappoint the tournament who gave us the wildcard.
Then we did it.   The first match was the toughest for us because mentally we were nervous and really wanted to win.   Sometimes when you want something really much you can't get it.   Then after we past that we started to relax and play our game and it gets much better. 
Same thing in 2007 US Open.   We went to final again.   I think it shows that it wasn't an accident for us to get into the final. 
Then, yeah, I think it was showing all the players or whoever watching that our level is there. 

Q.   So is your sister willing to accept if you play more singles?
YUNG‑JAN CHAN:   I think so, because she can still find someone else for her doubles.   Yeah, she is doing really well with other players, too, not just me. 

Q.   Better than with you?
YUNG‑JAN CHAN:   Well, I can't say better, but not bad.   (Laughter.)

Q.   Who do you travel with?
YUNG‑JAN CHAN:   Most of the time? 

Q.   Coach, sister?
YUNG‑JAN CHAN:   My mom.   That's my mom there.   Yeah, most of the time.   I have a French coach.   We just start after French Open.   Unfortunately he's not here because his eye got something there so he can't come.   Health problem.
I think he will join us like after the US Open Series.   Yeah.

Q.   What's his name? 
YUNG‑JAN CHAN:   It's John Francois Bachelot.   He was a player.

Q.   How did you choose Latisha as your American name?
YUNG‑JAN CHAN:   First all, the Taiwanese who speaks English will try to get an English name.   I was searching by Internet or dictionary, and once I ask a tennis player‑‑ he's in Taiwan and lives in United States for a very long time, so I ask him if you have any good names which could fit like my personality. 
He gave me three.   Then he tell me what it means, and finally I choose Latisha.   It's a black name.   (Laughter.)   Yeah. 

Q.   I wasn't going to say that. 
YUNG‑JAN CHAN:   Yeah.   I said, What's that mean?   Because I like when you pronounce.   He says, It means a black girl who really loves sports.   I said, Yeah, I'm going to take that.

Q.   Is that what he said? 
YUNG‑JAN CHAN:   Yeah.   I was like, Okay. 
Also Serena was really interesting of my English name. 

Q.   Because of her sister. 
YUNG‑JAN CHAN:   Because of my name.

Q.   Yeah. 
YUNG‑JAN CHAN:   And then I was playing doubles final in Stanford against Williams sisters, and she came after me.   She was like, Excuse me, excuse me.   I was like, Is that Serena?   She said, Is that your name Latisha?   I was like, Yeah.   She as like, Do you know that it's a black name? 
I said, Yeah.   She said, Oh, that's cool.   I said, I know.   (Laughter.)   It was really fun. 

Q.   That's very funny.   What were the other two names that he gave you?
YUNG‑JAN CHAN:   I can't remember.   It was long time ago.   Yeah, but it's not that powerful I think. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT