MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 6, 2021
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Q. Can you remember when you watched the Masters and now coming back, you saw the conditions were very different on TV.  But how are the conditions this week?
 SERGIO GARCIA:   Yes.  Obviously, it was disappointing to miss the Masters in November, but it made me realize it and wanting to be back even more.  So that was the positive out of it.
 Yeah, the course looked totally different in November.  It looked very slow compared to what it usually is, very soft.  Obviously, right now it's in great shape.  The greens are probably the fastest and firmest I've seen them on a Monday/Tuesday forever.
 So we'll see.  If we get lucky and the weather stays nice, it's going to be a challenging Masters, which is great.
 Q. You talk about November.  It sounds like pretty good perspective and everything, but not being here, it ended a pretty good streak that I think you don't get enough credit for.  That still had to be a little bittersweet, did it not?
 SERGIO GARCIA:   Yes, obviously -- yeah, there's no doubt that there was a little disappointment there because it's something that not all people can say they have done.  Obviously, I was about to catch, I think it was Tom Watson.
 Yeah, but that's destiny.  It's the way things are, and it happened for a reason.  So I'm still proud of the amount of majors I've been able to play in a row.  So that's the important thing.
 Just go out here this week, play well, trust what I'm doing, and hopefully have a great chance on the weekend.
 Q. Can there be a temptation to be too artistic at Augusta National?
 SERGIO GARCIA:   Sometimes you might.  It depends on how it plays.  The way it's playing right now, there's some holes, some pin positions that you have to be careful with, and sometimes you might overdo it a little bit trying to be too aggressive because some of them are almost impossible to get to.
 So I think that the way it is right now, it's nice because it makes you think a lot, it makes you try to make sure your game plan is right.  Then you have to execute, which is always the most important thing.  So it's playing tough.
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT