U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
June 16, 2017
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What sort of momentum or how would you best describe your position now going into the weekend here?
SERGIO GARCIA: Well, we'll see.  We'll see what Rickie and a couple of the other guys out there do this afternoon.  But on the personal side for me, we thought really like I was swinging not great.  I hit some really good shots coming in.  But I started a little early on, and yesterday didn't feel quite there.
Even after that, to be 3-under par with a chance on the weekend, I think -- I'm proud of that.  And I've got to keep hopefully -- keep the confidence going, keep the momentum and see if we can have a good weekend and have a chance on Sunday.
Q. What are you finding most challenging out there?
SERGIO GARCIA: I think the greens are getting U.S. Open-like, but not as firm as they're going to get if we don't get any rain.  But I think definitely getting a lot speedier, a lot faster.  And a lot of times you have to be careful with some of the putts, even though like, for example, 9, I had probably like a 12-footer down the hill.  And it was a good birdie opportunity, you don't want to be leaving yourself five- or six-footers because you got a little frisky with your first putt.  Unfortunately, I left it just short in the middle.  But still happy with the round.
Q. Do you hope it gets firm and fast this weekend?
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, yes.  I like -- I've always liked when a course plays tougher.  Obviously my game is on when the course is playing tougher.  I think I have a little bit of an advantage, but at the same time you have to be more on when it gets like that because if not, then you're going to struggle.  We'll see, we can't control Mother Nature and we'll see what happens.
Q. How much love are you continuing to hear from people, and given maybe what you had to battle in the past, how much does it mean to you?
SERGIO GARCIA: No, I mean, I don't know why you guys keep asking me this.  I've always said that I've been very fortunate the way people have treated me all over the world and here in the U.S.  Obviously there's always going to be -- it doesn't matter what you do, there's always going to be a group that it's going to be a little bit tougher.
But I think maybe I feel a little bit more love than before, but maybe it's going from a nine to a nine and a half.  So it's not like it's going from a three to an eight.  So people have always treated me really, really well in the U.S. and that is not changing now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT