DEAN & DELUCA INVITATIONAL
May 25, 2017
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How different was the second nine from the first nine this morning you played in terms of the wind?
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, was a tiny bit of breeze on the front nine, but definitely got up when we got around the turn.  Started playing a little bit tougher, a little bit more challenging to hit the fairways, and then obviously because of that to hit the greens after that.
Yeah, the weather is beautiful.  The greens are probably going to firm up a little bit.  With the breeze blowing, you know, it's not going to be easy out there this afternoon.
I feel like I should have been much better than that.  I feel like I hit some nice putts that didn't go in, and then a couple bad putts that obviously didn't go in either.
At least we fought hard and we shot 1-under, which is not too bad.
Q. How patient do you have to be on this course?
SERGIO GARCIA: You have to be patient every golf course you play.  This one probably even more because sometimes you can hit a good tee shot that is going to kind of block you out a little bit with some branches and some trees, overhanging trees.
But I guess it happens to everyone.  Just got to be patient and do the best you can out there.
Q. You played quite a bit of golf wit Jon.  What kind of an asset would he be to the European team?
SERGIO GARCIA: I mean, we all know how good a player he is.  He obviously could be very, very important to the team, and we're very thankful that he's European, Spanish.
But we'll see.  There is still a year and a half, year and six months to go until the Ryder Cup.  We still all got to play our way on to that team.  Then when we get there, we will try to figure out what to do to regain the Cup.
Q. Did Jon pick your brain for any thoughts when you won here?
SERGIO GARCIA: No, no, not really.  When you're out on the golf course, no.  You're not talking about -- and the course is changed a little bit from 2001, so no.  Everybody has their own way of playing the course.
Q. How will you get ready for the U.S. Open?
SERGIO GARCIA: Just practice.  Simple as that.  Practice and try to build up confidence.  Hopefully get to Erin Hills on a nice high and see if we can have a really good weekend.
Q. Have you played the course?
SERGIO GARCIA: I have not, no.
Q. When will you play it?
SERGIO GARCIA: Probably the Tuesday before.
Q. Okay.  What strikes you the most about Jon's game and how well he's done out here as a rookie?
SERGIO GARCIA: Well, it's just he's got a great overall game.  Obviously he can hit the ball far.  He hits it quite straight for how far he hits it.
His iron play is solid.  Chipping and putting is pretty good.  His putting is really nice and chipping fairly good, too.
It's a good mix.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT