OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 27, 2021
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  NEIL AHERN:   Thanks for joining us here at the OMEGA Dubai Desert Classic.  First time we've seen you in 2021 here on The European Tour.  Can you begin by telling us about your goals?  It's obviously a very big year in golf this year, so can you talk us through your goals for the season?
 SERGIO GARCIA:   Yes, without a doubt, it's a big year, a lot of big tournaments to be played and obviously Ryder Cup and Olympics and majors and you know, Race to Dubai, FedExCup.  There's plenty, there's plenty to choose from.
 So I'm excited about it.  Obviously had a decent finish of the year last year before we got COVID, but excited to hopefully get started well here.  Had a pretty decent week in -- first week in Hawai'i.  Second week was a little bit more up-and-down.  Just hoping to have a couple good weeks here on The European Tour and head back to the US and keep the run going, I guess.
 NEIL AHERN:   A tournament and a golf course where you've performed very well and had a win there in 2017.  Is this the kind of place that can maybe spark your season early on?
 SERGIO GARCIA:   Yes, for sure, there's no doubt about it.  It's a course that I enjoy and a course that I like playing and I've done well in the past.  It definitely can help.  You know, we'll see, as the week goes on, see how we feel, see how the confidence is and try to build it up as the weeks go on.
 Q Good to see you, especially after you mentioned, catching COVID late last year.  Can you just tell us how frustrating that was to miss the Masters as a former champion, and how were you physically?  How did it affect you?
 SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, it was a little frustrating, I'm not going to lie.  Obviously I had a good run going on majors in a row and to miss the Masters the way we missed it, obviously it was a little bit disappointing.
 But once I tested positive, I kind of had to get my head around it because I knew that that's what was going to happen, and it didn't matter how frustrated I got or whatever; it wasn't going to change.
 It was unfortunate, but it happens.  We know that by coming out here and playing tournaments, we put ourselves at risk, and you know, anyone can get it any time.
 You know, just deal with it.  The good thing is my symptoms were quite mild, so just a little bit of a sore throat, a little bit of body pains, back and shoulders, a little bit of legs, and lost my sense of smell.  But other than that, it was okay.  Obviously felt a little tired and stuff, but it wasn't -- it wasn't too bad.
 Q As you mentioned, obviously it is a massive year.  It's a Ryder Cup year again; it's Olympics, etc.  How much is The Ryder Cup a goal of yours?  You're already the record points holder for Europe.  How keen are you to add to your total at Whistling Straits?
 SERGIO GARCIA:   Yes, obviously it's something that I would love to be a part of, and not so much to add to my total but to add to Europe and I know that if I do that, it obviously adds to my total.
 But you know, at the end of the day, everyone knows, you know all how much I love The Ryder Cup and I would love to be a part of a few more.  And you know, that's obviously one of the biggest goals for the year.
 Q Was that the reason, by the way, you started both events in Hawai'i?  Was that to try to get some World Points early on?
 SERGIO GARCIA:   A little bit.  Obviously we were in Austin through Christmas and stuff because of COVID and everything.  So it was a much shorter flight than if I would have been in Spain, so that made it definitely easier.
 But yeah, for sure, I had in mind obviously taking a good couple chances there with the Sentry, the Tournament of Champions with no cut and everything.  I knew that if I had a decent week, I could get some points there, and then the next one at the Sony.  It definitely was in the back of my mind for sure.
 Q I just wonder, you're obviously one much those players who plays both tours, which brings into it the amount of travel that you've obviously done to simply be there.  Given the current climate, just how much of a challenge is that in terms of your own scheduling?
 SERGIO GARCIA:   It is a big challenge.  Much bigger than -- much bigger than in the past for several reasons.  First of all, because I'm not getting any younger and the body feels it.  But second of all, because of the times we live in and how -- the regulations, the rules and regulations are different in every country you go.  It definitely comes into effect, and hopefully it won't change my schedule too much throughout year.  But it might.
 You know, if countries come up with new rules and stuff like that and quarantines and stuff like that, it might be difficult for me to travel to some of the places and have enough time to get ready for those tournaments.
 As the year goes by, we'll try to adjust the best way possible.
 Q Is that sort of sense of uncertainty and the fact that whatever comes on the news bulletin could have a direct effect on your job immediately, is that a stressful situation at the moment?
 SERGIO GARCIA:   I try not to stress too much because at the end of the day we are still very lucky.  We have a job.  We do what we love and we still live a great life.
 But it's definitely I would say uncomfortable, because it's just so difficult to make plans right now.  For the past year, it's pretty much impossible to make plans because you don't know what you need going into some places and things might change midway there.
 So that's the only thing that is a little bit annoying, but you know, the silver lining, I guess, is it's not too bad at the end of the day.
 Q And just a final thought, obviously you're based in America.  What's the situation as far as you players are concerned in terms of where you sit in a queue for a vaccine and obviously that sort of thing?  That's obviously seemingly the way out of things.
 SERGIO GARCIA:   We are still based in Switzerland.  Obviously we've been stuck in the US because of everything that's been going on, but yeah, there's no doubt that everybody's looking forward to vaccines and getting vaccinated and stuff.
 You know, like I said, it's what it is.  At the beginning of -- I remember at the beginning of coming back from the break in March and April and beginning of June, I remember talking to Luke Donald, and he was totally right.  He was like, you know, if you didn't -- if you don't want to get it at all, then you stay at home.  But if you're coming out here, you know there's a possibility you might get it at some point.  So you've just got to realise that and kind of move on.  It's one of those things that at the end of the day you can't really control it that much.  You can control it a little bit but not to the hundred percent, I guess.
 Q Collin was talking a few minutes ago about the chemistry among the European players he noticed at the DP World end of last year and we saw that again with the Angry Golfers video.  How important is that chemistry, is it as big as some people make it out to be?
 SERGIO GARCIA:   You were cutting in and out but I think I can make out what you were asking.
 Yes, that chemistry is huge.  It's probably one of our biggest, strongest weapons when it comes down to Ryder Cup.
 But I think the most important thing about it is it's a natural chemistry, because we don't really have to work hard for it.  We enjoy each other's company.  We get along well.  And you know, we love opening up for our partners, for our playing partner and stuff like that.  That obviously makes things a little bit easier for us to gel as much as possible when it comes down to that week.
 Q As a fiery golfer yourself, were you disappointed you didn't make the Angry Golfers clip?
 SERGIO GARCIA:   (Laughs) I'm actually surprised that I didn't make it.  I guess I've been -- I guess I've been quite calm for the last -- for the last year, year and a half.  So that probably helped me miss that spot.
 Q We've been watching the Tiger Woods documentary over here.  It's just been aired.  It has been aired in the States I think for a couple of weeks now.  I'm wondering, a, whether you've seen it, and b, if you have, what you thought of it.
 SERGIO GARCIA:   Well, I haven't seen it.  Unfortunately I haven't seen it yet.  I'm sure that I will watch it at some point.  I've heard comments from friends that can watched it, but yeah, I've heard it's kind of tough, you know.  But I haven't seen it, so I can't -- I can't really give you my full opinion.
 Q It's certainly tough.  I think it's terrific.  And I've known Tiger for 25 years; I've covered him for 25 years.  It is tough.  It's very long.  But the word I would apply most of all is thorough.  It has talked to everybody who has any kind of significant role in his life and it's very -- it is very tough.  But it certainly answers a lot of questions that people have.  I'm struck by -- I'd have thought that you players would have wanted to see it because of its notoriety and because it's who it is.  You seem interested but not that anxious.
 SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, I mean, I am interested for sure but it's not like -- I mean to be totally honest, it's not like a must-see right now for me.  Obviously when I have a little bit of time and stuff, I'll definitely watch it because I think it's interesting and obviously to have a documentary about, you know, arguably, the best player we've ever had in our sport, obviously it's always interesting.
 But I'm not -- I'm not rushing into it.  So I know it's going to be there, so I'll have plenty of time to watch it I guess.
 Q Apart from what other people have said about it being tough, what else have they said to you about it?
 SERGIO GARCIA:   No, I mean, not that much.  Just like I said, a couple friends of mine have seen it and they just said that, you know, some of the parts were a little bit of an eye-opener, I guess.
 Yeah, but I -- I would love to give you more about it, but I can't.  I'd love to tell you what I think about it, but I haven't watched it yet.
 Q I'll come and find you when I see you next and ask you if you've seen it by then?
 SERGIO GARCIA:   Perfect, there you go.
 NEIL AHERN:   Sergio, thank you very much for your time.  Have a great week.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT