AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 19, 2017
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Sergio, excellent round out there today.  Get some comments on your day.  
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah.  It was obviously a little bit more playable than it was yesterday in the afternoon.  It was tough early on, little bit of wind and then it kind of calmed down to where it's probably our 10th hole and then we're able to make some birdies towards the end but still didn't feel great.   
I managed to score well, which was a good thing, but I still need to improve.   
 Q.  Sergio, you had another bogey, how did you get yourself to say let's not get that out of hand?  
SERGIO GARCIA: Nothing.  I just told myself to keep going, to try to hit some good shots, to give myself some looks at birdies.   
Obviously it was fortunate to make the first three that I had on 13, 15 and 16 so that kind of settled me down a little bit and then I was able to hit a lot more greens, hit some shots, good range to make birdies and I was able to make them.   
 Q.  What doesn't feel great?  
SERGIO GARCIA: Everything (laughter).  I mean don't get me wrong, it's not like I can't hit the ball, but it just doesn't feel as smooth as I can tell maybe a month ago.  But we're trying, we're working on it.   
 Q.  How much does experience matter on a course like this?  
SERGIO GARCIA: It matters everywhere you go.  Experience is always important and what matters the most is playing well.  As simple as that.  But, you know, when you have a good feeling about a golf course that you played before and you've done well, obviously you know that you can -- you can get a lot more good pictures in your head, you know, so that always helps and I'm sure it help today.   
 Q.  Sergio, of all the courses on Tour, where does this rank in terms of comfortability for you to get by?  
SERGIO GARCIA: It's probably -- I'm there, there's no doubt.  Probably in the top five or six maybe because what you said, I've done well here.  There are some tee shots that are tricky.   
18, when the wind is on the left it's a difficult tee shot but, you know, you got to just suck it up and try to put the best swing possible and, if not, manage to scramble a par from the right side.   
Other than that, you know, it's a golf course that I feel mostly comfortable on it.   
 Q.  I asked you earlier in the week if you had a special treat in your room.  You hadn't checked into your room yet.  Was there anything special like last year?  
SERGIO GARCIA: No, no there wasn't.  Some flowers for Angela.  Nothing for me.  They took care of the important one.   
 Q.  Touch of sadness to see it moving from here?  
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, I mean there is but it happens.  It is really sad because we've been here and the complex is great, the golf course is nice, the sports facilities are amazing and -- but we'll see when we get next year, when we get to the new venue, hopefully we'll all be surprised and very happy about it and we'll probably hopefully have another 30, 40 years there of happiness and enjoying it.   
 Q.  What was the key to today?  
SERGIO GARCIA: What was the key?  I obviously putted better than yesterday.  That always helps.  I rolled some good putts, good birdie putts and so that always gives you a little bit -- little more confidence and you don't feel like you have to hit it to three feet to make birdie or something like that.  So, that was obviously the important thing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT