THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2017
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk about your day.  
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, great day.  Yesterday it was important to make the cut after how overwhelming everything has been, after the Masters, and the way I felt the first couple of days, obviously with a little bit of the -- a little bit cautious the first two days, so today even though it was much tougher with the windy conditions and how gusty it was out there.  I was able to hit some really, really quality, some really good quality shots, and thanks to that and some great putts and thanks to that, we were able to shoot a very good 5-under.   
 Q.  Were you rusty at all coming into this week after not having played since the Masters and having so much stuff going on before this?  
SERGIO GARCIA: No, no, because I did practice.  I practiced for a solid two weeks.  I didn't feel rusty game wise, I felt rusty probably head wise.  I felt like there were a lot of thoughts going in my head, and the first day I was still thinking about the Masters and everything that has been going on, and so it was, like I said earlier, it was important to shoot a decent round.  I mean, obviously to have the finish that I had on Thursday and then shoot a solid round yesterday, make the cut, and then kind of free up a little bit today and play a little bit more like I was playing the week of the Masters.   
 Q.  What is it about this course that suits you so well?  
SERGIO GARCIA: I just like the golf course.  I've told you guys many, many times it's one of my most favorite golf courses we play all year, and for some reason I can see what I want to do.  Obviously there's a couple tee shots here and there that are a little bit uncomfortable, but I see what I want to do and I can see most of my reads quite well and I just feel comfortable on it.  So it usually helps to play better.   
 Q.  Did you like it all the way, or did you have to kind of grow into it, the golf course?  
SERGIO GARCIA: No, I liked it all the way.  I liked it since 2000 I think was the first year I played it and I liked it.  I didn't play as well as I would have liked to the first maybe the first couple of years, but then when I saw -- once I started learning how to play the course better and stuff, it definitely helped out, and because of that I've been fortunate to be very successful here.   
 Q.  Do you remember how far back you were the year you won?  Just a comeback, maybe one or two?  
SERGIO GARCIA: I think I was probably two back.  I remember I shot --   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah.  Yes.  But we'll see how far back we are when we -- when everything's said and done today.   
 Q.  Do you feel like the Masters helped you take Thursday's start more in stride and loosened you up to be able to bounce back?  Was there any impact with that?  
SERGIO GARCIA: No, not at all.  I felt like a little bit in chains on Thursday because of that, yeah, because like I said before, because of how overwhelming everything has been and you get there, and you are like -- I was thinking, come on, you have to play well after winning the Masters, you have to, you have to, you have to, and I kind of probably put a little bit too much pressure on myself.  I tightened up a little bit and I didn't play as well as I've been playing.  Because of that I started a little bit -- obviously the hole-in-one helped, helped a lot, and I said that when we finished the first round it was important to make it a decent round, after being 4-over after 6, and because of that now we're in a much better position.   
 Q.  Do you have the jacket with you this week?  
SERGIO GARCIA: I do.   
 Q.  Curious why?  
SERGIO GARCIA: Wouldn't you?   
(Laughter.)  It's simple.  When we get to the Masters next year they're going to take it away, so I think I'm going to hold on to it as long as I can for this year.   
 Q.  Is it at your hotel or wherever you're staying this week?  
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah.  Yeah.   
 Q.  How has Jose been?  
SERGIO GARCIA: He's been good.  Yeah, it's been fun.  Obviously I've been doing -- I've told you guys many times before, I'm not a guy that depends on his caddie totally, like I try to play my game, and I just usually -- even when I have Glen, I ask him when I have a doubt, but I'm not -- some guys like to hear everything, I don't.  But the times that I have asked him, he's been well, he's been doing well.  He's gave me some good reads.  He gave me some good confidence on some of the shots.  Unfortunately, I would not always listen to him on the last because I was going to hit my putt kind of inside left and he made me hit it straight and I missed it just right, but we'll excuse him for that one.   
(Laughter.)   
No, but he's been fun.  I think he's been enjoying it too.   
 Q.  How have you been received this week?  I mean, I know the answer.  
SERGIO GARCIA: You know the answer.  It's been great.  I've always had great receptions here, but this year it's definitely been even better than.   
 Q.  Do you feel different about yourself now as a player that you got that one knocked off that you didn't know for sure or at times you thought you couldn't do?  
SERGIO GARCIA: I've always been confident with myself, I've always been, I've always believed in the ability that I have.  I'm not going to lie, it does help to win a Major and to win the Masters the way I did it.  But I don't feel like I'm that different a player.  Maybe a little bit more confidence here and there, but that's about it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT