WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 23, 2017
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Today you got the point you really needed?
SERGIO GARCIA: Yes, today it was nice to get a full point for tomorrow.  I'm very happy with the way I played.  It was very good to go out there and I played much better than yesterday.
Q. When we were studying these groups at the start of the week, we knew if it went a certain way, you would be playing Jon Rahm on Friday and it's winner takes all.  And that's exciting for the fans.
SERGIO GARCIA: Yes, and for Spain it would be great, because if he wins today it will make sure that the Spanish player goes to the round of 16.  So hopefully.
Q. Your own game, happy with that?
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, today I played really well.  Yesterday I played okay.  I didn't really make anything.  Today, even though it was much tougher I felt like I hit the ball well and I rolled some good putts in towards the end when I really needed.
Q. And the wind was a real test today.  It was hard trying to figure it out.
SERGIO GARCIA: Yes, sometimes it was making you feel a little stupid.  It was very gusty.  Sometimes you were hitting a good shot that was going 20 yards shorter than you were hoping and sometimes you were hitting a shot that looked good and it was going 30 yards long.  It wasn't easy, but I played well so I'm very happy.
Q. Win over Kevin Chappell.  It was a really challenging back nine.  How did you overcome these windy conditions?
SERGIO GARCIA: I don't know, it was very difficult today.  You not only had to hit the ball very, very well, which I managed to do that, you have to get lucky with guessing how the wind was blowing and how it was going to blow, because it was really gusty.  But I managed to do that very well for probably 95 percent of the times, and because of that we made a good amount of birdies on difficult conditions.
Q. What, if anything, did you tweak about your game and your strategy between yesterday's match and today's?
SERGIO GARCIA: Nothing, really.  Today it's all about the same, just playing well, playing as well as you can, and hopefully a little bit better than your opponent.  I was able to do that today.  Yesterday I didn't play that great.  So it was nice to see myself moving forward today.  And hopefully I play well tomorrow, because I'm going to need it against Jon.
Q. You go up against fellow Spaniard Jon Rahm, what will be your top priority to get the win to advance to the final 16?
SERGIO GARCIA: I don't know, it's -- at the end of the day the only thing I can do is play the best I can, give it my everything.  And hopefully it's good enough to beat him.  If not, hopefully he gets through and he's the Spanish player in the round of 16.
Q. How difficult were those conditions out there today?
SERGIO GARCIA: Very tricky.  It was difficult to get the right clubs.  Even when you had the right club, you still had to hit it at the right time because of the gusts.
Q. What was working so well for you today?
SERGIO GARCIA: I feel like I played really, really well during the whole game today.  My game was in good shape.  I obviously putted nicely, which was not easy in these conditions.  I drove the ball very well.  My iron play was pretty much spot on, other than a couple of times.
Obviously I got off to a good start and I was trying to make sure to put pressure on Kevin and see how he would react.  And he reacted very well, because he started hitting some really, really good shots and making birdies and making it tough on myself.
Q. Tomorrow you get Jon Rahm.  You've got to know him pretty well early on in his career.  Talk about your match tomorrow with him?
SERGIO GARCIA: Yes, it's going to be a tough match, probably the toughest all week.  Not only he's playing really well, but he's a great player.  The good thing is I hope that he gets at least half a point, so that way if one of us beats the other it makes sure that a Spanish player is in the round of 16.  So we'll see what happens.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT