WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 23, 2017
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SERGIO GARCIA: It wasn't easy.  It was so gusty, the wind was blowing so hard.  Normally you need to hit a good putt, but you have to get lucky with catching the gust at the right time.  And the ball doing what you expect it to do with the wind.
Made some really good putts coming in.  I felt like I played really well today.  It was very, very difficult.  Kevin obviously didn't start off great, but then he started playing good and putting some pressure on me.  At the end of the day, I'm very happy with the win.
Q. How excited are about the prospect of playing Jon?
SERGIO GARCIA: I am excited.  Obviously I don't know if they are 1-up or where they are.  That's what I wanted at the beginning of the week for both of us on Friday to play to get through so at least one of us Spaniards goes through.  Hopefully we'll be able to do that.  We'll see what happens.
Q. (Inaudible)?
SERGIO GARCIA: No, no, it's never like that.  Obviously I started well.  Kevin didn't have the best four holes to start with but then he started playing well making birdies.  In these conditions that is not easy.  I felt like I played really solid.  Obviously I got a couple of bogeys that are going to come here and there.  I made a good amount of birdies, five or six, in this treacherous windy conditions.  I'm happy with that.
Q. It tests your patience, doesn't it?
SERGIO GARCIA: Also sometimes you are going to hit a good shot that is going to end up totally wrong.  You have got to realize that it's going to happen.  Kind of deal with it and move on.
Q. The big game tomorrow against a new friend?
SERGIO GARCIA: We've known each other for about two, two and a half years now.  Great player.  It would be nice if we both, you know, play to win it to get through.  So it would be nice to have that chance for Spain and we'll see.
Q. It really was a great effort.  Do you feel as if you have advantage on players because you hit the ball so crisply?
SERGIO GARCIA: You want to think that, but at the same time it's still very difficult.  In windy conditions like this that are gusty, there is a lot of guessing involved.  Sometimes you hit a great shot and it ends up 20 yards short of where you think it's going to go, and sometimes it goes 20 yards longer.  You have to obviously hit really good shots, that helps.  At the same time you have to hit the ball at the right time to get the right wind.
Q. You are not quite wearing the burnt orange of the University of Texas.  You came off the course with some hook 'em Horns.  How much of a hometown feel do you have here as you make your way and get comfortable with Austin, Texas?
SERGIO GARCIA: Obviously I have a place here.  But it is a beautiful town, I really, really enjoy it.  I made some good friends.  She already had a lot of good friends here.  It is fun.  I am enjoying this town.  And maybe tomorrow I can have a great day and make it through to the final 16.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT