TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 25, 2020
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Sergio, off to a great start today on the opening nine there. (Indiscernible.)
SERGIO GARCIA: Not a whole lot. Maybe a tiny bit, but the conditions were great, and the golf course is immaculate. The greens are beautiful. I played well the whole day. I think I hit every green in regulation and a couple par-5s and a par-4 in one. Yeah, obviously very happy with it, very happy with the way I played. A couple kind of a little bit loose shots here and there, but fairly well under control, and just a couple short missed putts. But I also rolled a couple nice little bombs there. So it was a great day.
Q. You rolled in a nice one on 17. Talk about this golf course and having to shoot low here.
SERGIO GARCIA: Well, to be totally honest, with the good weather that we've been getting, I expected the course to be firmer today. The fairways are definitely getting firmer, but the greens were definitely softer than I thought. If the weather stays as good as it's been, which it's supposed to, this course is going to get firm if the TOUR wants it to. The greens are going to get tricky. It's going to be tough to hit it close to some of these pins. But obviously this morning was the right time to shoot a good round because conditions were good and the course was -- had a nice firmness to it that you could control the ball nicely.
Q. When you came up 18 in that natural amphitheater, you're leading the tournament, you had a birdie putt, I believe, there's no one there, virtually no one there. Is that still as weird as it looks for you?
SERGIO GARCIA: It is a little bit weird. I'm not going to lie. But we have too many things to worry about to start looking and saying, oh, where are the crowds. We're trying to do what we know what to do the best way possible, and we're trying to figure out things that we have to do. So it is a little bit awkward to not see the crowds there, but you know, it's the third week already, so we've kind of gotten used to it, and we know what's happening.
Q. Was yesterday also a weird day based on everything that came out in terms of the positive tests and stuff?
SERGIO GARCIA: No. I mean, at the end of the day, just like Jay said, at the end of the day, whoever thought that we were going to come out here and it was going to be zero positive tests, I don't know, was living in la-la land. That doesn't happen. There's too many people. There's too many connections to be able to have everyone with negative tests every single week. Obviously some of them are going to happen, and it's a shame, but at the end of the day, if everything is under control and the protocols are good, what we don't want is people doing the wrong things and then putting other people in danger. That's when it becomes really dangerous.
But you know, one, two positive tests here and there, it's normal.
Q. Shane Lowry said he thought there might be a little bit of a wake-up or a kick in the a-- is actually what he said. Do you think that, too, in terms of behaviors?
SERGIO GARCIA: Well, yeah. I think it definitely kind of gives you a little bit of a wake-up call realizing that, yeah, it's not back to normal. It's not what it used to be, and we have to realize that. I think the TOUR is doing a good job of letting us know that. You know, that's why we all have to try to do our best when it comes down to following protocols and trying to be as careful as possible. That doesn't mean that you're not going to get it. You might get it, even doing that, because there's so many unknowns about this virus so far.
You know, as long as we're following protocols, it should be under control. If we start doing whatever we want, all of us, then it probably will be totally out of control and then it could get dangerous.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT