DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 18, 2016
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Lots of smiles out there today.  Were you enjoying yourself that much?
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, it was good fun.  I mean, I try to enjoy myself as much as possible every time.  Obviously when you're playing well, it's a little easier.  It was a good day.
Q. We try in golf not to use the word easy too often but did it feel that way out there today?
SERGIO GARCIA: No, I wouldn't say that.  I did feel quite comfortable, other than a couple shots on the back nine, the tee shot on 12 and 13.  But other than that, I felt quite comfortable.
I felt like I was swinging the club really, really well.  I was hitting a lot of good shots.  Hit a couple iffy putts here and there but I made some really good ones, also.  I was very happy to see all of that.
Q. We're coming across a lot of tired golfers this week, a lot of players who really have been through it.  There seems to be a freshness in you.  Are we imagining that or are you feeling that way?
SERGIO GARCIA: Well, obviously I haven't played the last couple of weeks; that helps.  But I'm looking forward to my little rest.  So after this week, it should be good.  We'll have a nice little rest.  I guess I'm a little bit fresher than the guys that have been playing the last three or four weeks.
Q. The scoring we've seen the last couple of days, 68, 67, is that going to be good enough if you continue over the weekend to win it?
SERGIO GARCIA: I don't know, it's probably going to be right around there.  We'll probably have to finish below 16-under par I'm guessing, so unless it gets really windy, which it doesn't look like it's going to happen.  I'm going to have to keep firing and hitting good shots and making good putts.
Q. Your play today, sir?
SERGIO GARCIA: Played nicely.  Obviously didn't hit a good tee shot on 12 and 13.  I thought we both played really, really well.  Gave ourselves a lot of birdie chances.  Obviously we could have scored better.  We could have made some more putts but it's not easy, when you're having 12-, 15-foot, 18-footers, you're going to miss some of them.
Q. You mentioned 12.  Elaborate on that.  It's nice to get out of trouble like that, isn't it?
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, I would rather not get myself in that position.  Obviously it's probably one of the only tee shots with the driver that I didn't fully commit it, and it showed and pulled it way left.  I was fortunate a guy from the crowd, a spectator, found it for me and I was able to drop outside the bush.  I hit a really good shot from there with a 7-iron and made a really nice putt.  I had a good feeling on that putt.  I felt like I was going to make it, and it was one of those career 4s.
Q. Are you having good feelings on the putts with these greens that seem pretty pure?
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, the greens are rolling nicely.  Obviously into the grain, they are a little bit tougher because they are quite grainy.  So it becomes a little bit trickier.  But if you're downgrain or sidegrain, they are rolling really, really nice.  I've hit a lot of good putts and made some really nice putts here and there.  A couple here and there, I would love to hit a little bit better but overall I'm happy with the results.
Q. It's very much an individual sport but how important is it to enjoy the company of your playing partner, because you and Joost seem to be getting along quite nicely.
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, obviously we enjoy one another's company and we've been friendly for some years now.  It's always nice, and at the end of the day, I've had good rounds with people that I really enjoy playing and good rounds with people that I am maybe not the biggest fan.  So it helps a little bit maybe, but it doesn't mean that you're necessarily going to have a good one because of that.
Q. Two more good rounds to come.  What is your thought into the weekend in this fine position?
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, I'm excited about it.  It's good to be out there with a chance, the last tournament of the year.  I just want to make sure that I keep playing the same way I've played these first two days and see where that takes us.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT