OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 2, 2017
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Recently engaged, all is good in your world and lovely start.  You've won in Qatar; how comfortable are you in the Middle East?  
SERGIO GARCIA: I've done very well I guess.  Obviously it was a nice way to start.  A good, solid round.  It was getting a little bit tasty there at the end, the last five, six holes.  So it was nice to be able to get it in on a good score and see what happens in the afternoon.  Tomorrow is supposed to be a tough day, so we'll see.   
 Q.  When you look at it now, how tricky do you expect it to be for the guys later on today?  
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, the wind is definitely blowing harder as we went on.  And 8, for example, is playing tough.  It's driver, 5-iron -- usually driver and 8-iron or maybe 9-iron, so it was definitely playing a little tougher.  We'll see.  It's supposed to blow hard.  That's the forecast but you never know out here.   
 Q.  What's the biggest positive in your game this morning that you'll take into the rest of the week?  
SERGIO GARCIA: I think there were a lot of good positives out there.  I played quite nicely, hit some really nice putts and made some really nice putts here and there.  So overall, I was very happy with it.  I felt like I was quite committed for pretty much every shot I hit it.   
 Q.  7-under 65 today, that's your best round ever.  What was working for you today?  
SERGIO GARCIA: Ever, here.  I think I've shot better than that.  No, obviously I played nicely.   
Early morning it was a little bit easier, not a lot of wind.  The last probably six holes or so, it started pick willing up it and it was playing a little bit tougher, some of the holes coming in it.  But I hit the ball nicely.  I got away with a couple of shots here and there, and I chipped and putted nicely.  So it added up to a nice round.   
 Q.  You talked about the wind.  It came up a little bit towards the end of your round and there's supposed to be more wind tomorrow.  How challenging is a golf course like this in conditions like these?  
SERGIO GARCIA: Well, it is challenging, and we'll see.  We'll see how it plays in the afternoon.  It doesn't look like it's going to play too easy, and tomorrow is supposed to be really, really tough.  They are even speaking about not knowing if we are able to play or not, as hard as it might blow.   
So hopefully that doesn't happen so we can have a nice, normal tournament.  But you know, these kind of sandstorms or whatever they are called, you can get them once in a while here and unfortunately it's catching us.   
 Q.  You talked yesterday about keeping the passion year-in and year-out.  Is it backing harder for you or easier to keep that passion during the off-season to get ready to play again?  
SERGIO GARCIA: No, the passion, it's always there, and it's easy to keep up.  You know, doing what we love and being as blessed as we are, being able to do it fairly well, it's a great thing.  So obviously the passion is easy to maintain.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT