CIMB CLASSIC
October 20, 2016
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great round, 67, I think you're going to need a few more of those if you're going to have a chance to compete.  Tell me about your round today.  What was working for you?  
SERGIO GARCIA: I think the best thing was that I went bogey-free, which is always nice.  I felt like I played okay, not great.  Obviously I did struggle a little the last four or five holes with the heat and the jet-lag and a little bit of a headache and stuff but those things happen in this heat and you just have to make sure that you keep nice and hydrated.  It's a good start.   
 Q.  You've won multiple times in Asia and you enjoy playing down here.  How do you deal with the heat, and it's pretty oppressive right now.  
SERGIO GARCIA: It's tough.  I don't think there's a formula obviously.  You have to drink a lot, which I do, but just there's so much heat just kind of condensed in your whole body throughout the day that sometimes it feels like you're going to explode.   
You know, it was a little bit of breeze which made it a little bit better, but Asian heat is always like this.   
 Q.  You've had the all-star Ryder Cup group today for you, what was it like playing with Patrick Reed and Ryan Moore and after your experience at The Ryder Cup, because you had a phenomenal match obviously with Phil Mickelson?  
SERGIO GARCIA: It was great.  I played with them plenty.  It feels like I played with Patrick Reed every other week this year.  With Ryan, I've also played quite a bit this year.   
I like them both.  They are great guys.  They are playing well.  Obviously Ryan didn't have the best of days but Patrick came back after the double.   
 Q.  How do you feel about your round?  
SERGIO GARCIA: It was a nice round.  Obviously bogey-free, it's always good to do, any course you play.   
My swing felt okay.  Not great.  I hit some really nice shots but I hit others that maybe are not quite as good.  Overall, I was quite consistent.  I made three or four nice par putts, which that's always nice, and then I took care of a couple chances when I had them.  It was good overall.   
 Q.  The winning score last year was minus 26.  Do you think we'll see a similar situation this year?  
SERGIO GARCIA: It depends a little bit on the weather.  I think the course is a tiny bit firmer than it was last year, so that might make it not as easy as it was.  I think that still, the winning score is still going to be somewhere around the 20s, unless it gets really windy.  We'll see.   
 Q.  This has been quite a year, winning on the PGA TOUR and then The Ryder Cup, what would you say is the highlight?  
SERGIO GARCIA: It's been a good year.  It's been a solid year so far.  I think winning the Byron Nelson again was great.  I think there's no doubt, The Ryder Cup is always fun, even though we didn't manage to win this one.  It's been great.  I had a couple really good majors, major finishes, U.S. Open and British Open.  So overall, it's been great.   
 Q.  We are approaching the end of the year now.  Do you have any plans for Christmas?  
SERGIO GARCIA: Relax.  Yeah, go back to Switzerland, go back to my house in Crans Montana and enjoy the snow and the cold and just relax.  We're look forward to it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT