RBC HERITAGE
June 20, 2020
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Sergio, can you just talk about the round, and your first three days, how you've been playing.
SERGIO GARCIA: It was nice. It was a nice round. Played very nicely, hit a lot of good shots, give myself a lot of good opportunities. Obviously, missed a couple short putts on 11 and 16. But other than that, it was very solid. I think I hit pretty much the three par 5s in two, gave myself good eagle chances on all of them, didn't make any of them. Then a couple other shots that I hit very close and rolled it in. So it was really nice.
Q. Two weeks in a row there's another packed leaderboard with a lot of players playing a lot of great golf. Are you surprised at the quality of play that's out there after a 13-week break?
SERGIO GARCIA: No, because at the end of the day, this is what we do. Yeah, some guys are going to be a little bit rusty, but not everyone is going to be rusty. Some guys are going to be feeling it. I feel like my game, it's in a pretty good spot. It's probably feeling some of the best that it's felt in a long time. I just need to kind of get my short game a little bit sharper. Definitely the chipping and putting needs to improve a little bit.
Other than that, it feels good, and I'm excited to have another good round tomorrow and see where that puts us.
Q. Can you tell us about what your initial reaction was when you heard about Nick?
SERGIO GARCIA: Well, the first thing -- my first reaction was I was surprised. I felt terrible for Nick because he's probably one of the nicest guys on TOUR. Unfortunately, it had to happen to him. So there's a lot of other people that probably deserved it a lot more than him, and he's the one that got it.
I was a little bit afraid because, obviously, we knew -- I gave him a ride on Tuesday, but when we landed on Tuesday, we got tested. We were both negative. So it was all good. Then I was surprised to hear that he tested positive two days, three days later. Obviously, I got my test done yesterday, and I was negative.
But it was about 4 1/2 hours of waiting, very anxiously, hoping that it was negative because, obviously, after missing the cut last week by one and this week finally playing nicely in the second round and being in the middle of the pack, if I would have given positive, then I wouldn't be able to play on the weekend, and I would have been very, very disappointed.
Nick is unbelievable. He's a good friend. He was very worried about me. He sent me several texts. I talked to him. He must have said sorry to me probably 25 times. I told him that it's all good. Whatever it is, it is. Fortunately for me, it was fine. Hopefully, his is not bad, and we can have him back as soon as possible.
Q. Sergio, in your communication with him, did he intimate to you that he thought that maybe the first test was wrong?
SERGIO GARCIA: I would say probably the second one it's more likely to be wrong, if you're asking me. Mainly because it could be one of those false positive ones because he's been telling me -- I talked to him yesterday. I talked to him this morning, and he's been telling me he's feeling fine. He's got no Fever. He's got no cough.
So I'm hoping that maybe he gets tested again, and it's maybe a false positive. So hopefully, that would be nice because he doesn't deserve it.
Q. Did he tell you that the symptoms that he expressed only showed up from that band that he had?
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah.
Q. In other words, he wasn't feeling bad?
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, if he would have not had that WHOOP or whatever you call it, he would have played, and nobody would have noticed. Nobody would have known. But Nick is -- it shows the kind of person he is. He saw that something was a little bit off. He commented. He talked to the doctor, and a lot of other people probably would have just kind of gone on without even thinking about it, but he was worried about not only himself, but all of us, and he got out and tested. That shows a lot to me from him.
Q. I just wonder if that gives you any pause at all that, obviously, if it's not for that, he's not showing anything, he could have come out and played, but he tested positive. This is how the thing goes, right? This is how it spreads.
SERGIO GARCIA: Unfortunately, that's the way it is. I feel terrible about it. But unfortunately, it's the way it is, and we all knew coming out here and playing that there's a possibility of catching it some way. We're hoping that no one gets it, but I'm sure that, unfortunately, he won't be the first and he won't be the last because there's a lot of things that can happen. There's so many unknowns about this virus that we don't -- we think we know a lot about it, but there's a lot of things we don't know.
Hopefully, he recovers very soon and very quickly, and we can have him back.
Q. Kind of flukish that you would have traveled together? You both live in Austin, but obviously, if you don't both miss the cut, that doesn't happen.
SERGIO GARCIA: Yes, it was going to happen.
Q. Oh, either way? Okay.
SERGIO GARCIA: It was going to happen because we both drove back -- we drove to Dallas, so we both drove back, and the plane was in Austin. I was going to give him a ride no matter what. So that didn't change.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT