THE RYDER CUP
October 1, 2016
Martin Kaymer
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A thrilling fourball, in the end, was it all about the Americans making just a few more putts than you?  
MARTIN KAYMER: Yeah, I think it started already yesterday.  They made more putts than we did yesterday, and we had a few chances on the front nine or around the turn where we could have got it back to maybe all-square or maybe only 1-down.  But then Phil made that putt on 10 and Sergio made a great putt on 12, and it was momentum a little bit on our side and they took it away the next hole.   
It was very hard to get the momentum on our side.  We kept fighting till the end.  I think we did well to go to 17, because we fought and that's all you can ask for.   
 Q.  Will you take any inspiration from your fight back this morning, 4-down and six to play this morning and you managed to get a halve; did you think you might be able to do it again?  
SERGIO GARCÍA: Well, it's tough to do.  I just missed too many putts.  Obviously I felt like I played great -- we both played great.  I mean, they played nicely but they didn't win it.  We kind of gave it away a little bit with all the putts we missed.  You know, it's what it is.  You have to take those opportunities when you have them in match play and at The Ryder Cup, and if you don't, then you struggle to try to win it.  But we fought hard.  Hit some great shots and we had some good birdies coming in.  Unfortunately for us, they came up with the goods here on 17 and we couldn't get it to 18.   
 Q.  You've played plenty of these Ryder Cups away from home so you know all about the atmosphere.  What's it been like here this week compared to other ones you've been at?  
SERGIO GARCÍA: They have been quite poor.  I'm not going to lie.  Obviously it's unfortunate because I think that 85 percent of the people are great and I love playing in America.  My girlfriend is American.  But that 15 percent that is really bad, it makes them look bad.  And I feel ashamed for my girlfriend, because I know how bad she feels when she hears all the things, but it is what it is.  It's as simple as that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT