THE RYDER CUP
September 30, 2016
Rafa Cabrera Bello
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: It was a real honor; playing alongside Sergio was something really special.  If I could have picked a partner, I couldn't have picked anyone better than him to join me on my first Ryder Cup match.  I'm proud that we played great; that we felt very comfortable on the course.  We rooted for one another and obviously we got the point for Europe.   
 Q.  Your 16th win in Ryder Cup fourball and foursomes play, surely not too many of them have felt more important.  
SERGIO GARCÍA: Yeah, it was important.  Mainly because obviously we didn't have a good morning, like everybody saw.  We needed to go out here and do something better than we did this morning.   
Obviously it would be nice to win the session.  It looks like we have a good chance at it.  So hopefully we can get at least three points would be amazing and we're back in it.   
 Q.  You mentioned what a thrill it was to play with Sergio.  How valuable was his experience today?  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: He's great.  He's such a world-class player.  I learned so much this year practicing with him.  And obviously to play together here, I mean, I just know that it didn't matter if I messed up, that he was going to be up there.  Luckily I didn't mess up much today.   
SERGIO GARCÍA: It's easy when you have a guy that is like this all the time.   
 Q.  Your first Ryder Cup point you've won, how does it feel?  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Obviously we needed a strong afternoon to get some points on the leaderboard, and as a debut, I was extremely motivated and I felt very proud having the chance to play alongside Sergio.  So for me it's been a very special day.   
 Q.  I know both of your families have been very close for many years.  Did that make it extra special?  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Yes, I'm sure they enjoyed the experience as much as we did.  Obviously we've been friends for many, many years, and it's great to see that we are playing together.   
 Q.  This must be special, as well, the two Spaniards delivering for Europe.  
SERGIO GARCÍA: It was awesome to play with Rafa.  He's a great friend of mine and an unbelievable player.  I think everybody saw that today.  Any time I was a little bit out, he stepped up and he hit a great shot.   
I think we felt really comfortable.  We've played a lot of golf together and it was great to get paired and get a win.   
 Q.  Great atmosphere around the greens today.  
SERGIO GARCÍA: Obviously there's a lot of energy going around.  Sometimes it's a little bit on the edge, but it was great fun.   
 Q.  What a way to start on the first hole today.  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Thank you.  I visualized that hole, started it that way many times in my head, and from visualizing it to doing it, it's a big step.  But obviously I know that there's no better backup than Sergio to play on the course.  He's the best partner and he can hit any shot that the course needs.  It was a huge honor for me.   
 Q.  If you putted on the PGA TOUR like you do in The Ryder Cup, you would have I don't know how many wins.  You would be triple-digits maybe.  How much fun did you have on the greens?  
SERGIO GARCÍA: It's great.  But I've putted great on the PGA TOUR, too.  Obviously you have weeks where you feel better than others.  But more than anything, I felt great all day.  I hit a lot of good putts this morning that didn't go in, but this afternoon, playing with Rafa was awesome.  We're good friends.  We're obviously very comfortable with each other.  He was just a freaking rock of a partner.  He was unbelievable.   
 Q.  After this morning's matches, what did Captain Clarke say to you guys before you went back out this afternoon?  
SERGIO GARCÍA: He just said, you know, it wasn't -- obviously we didn't play great this morning, but it wasn't that far off.  The Americans had a couple really good finishes and took a couple of points there, maybe we could have at least gotten one.   
But other than that, it's fine.  It's just the beginning.  So obviously the week is still long and there's a lot of golf to be played.   
 Q.  Are we going to see this match-up again maybe tomorrow?  
RAFA CABRERA-BELLO: Don't know.  That's up to the captain.  Whatever he decides, I'm 100% behind him.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT