AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 21, 2016
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Was it good memories or what was it that brought you back here?
SERGIO GARCIA: Little bit of everything.  Good scheduling and an definitely the course.
Q. So three shots back at this point.  One round to play.  What it's going to take for you to become champion?
SERGIO GARCIA: I don't know.  Probably going to take a good round tomorrow.  We'll see whether the weather holds but obviously Brooks and Jordan and Bud, Matt, they're all playing well, too, so it's going to be -- going to be an exciting final round and I'll have to play well.
Q. What particular part of your game needs to be special tomorrow?
SERGIO GARCIA: Well, I think every part of it.  Obviously today I didn't feel as sharp as the first two days but I tried to hit a lot of greens, give myself looks and I felt like I hit some good putts on the back-9 that, unfortunately, didn't want to go in.
Other than that, if I keep doing more of that -- I need to drive the ball a little bit better than I did today, like the I did the first two days and if I do that I should have a chance.
Q. Well, Sergio, you made that front-9 exciting again.  Could have been an ultra-special day.  The good news is you gave yourself plenty of chances out there, didn't you?
SERGIO GARCIA: I did.  Obviously I wasn't as sharp as the first couple of rounds but still played fairly decent and was trying to hit as many fairways and greens as possible.
I would love to be a little bit closer a couple of times in there, but hit some good putts coming in two, three good chances that I had and, unfortunately, they didn't want to drop today.  Hopefully they'll drop tomorrow.
Q. We talked about how special this event is to you.  What does it mean to be in the mix on a Sunday here at Las Colinas?
SERGIO GARCIA: Every tournament when you're in the mix is exciting.  Here when you know you've done well, it's a little bit extra.  So, I'm definitely excited about it tomorrow.  Should be a great day, interesting day and some good players out there.  So, it will be fun.
Q. Sergio, I know you said not quite as sharp today.  Still you'll be in shouting distance tomorrow.
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah.  I mean I played okay.  I didn't play badly but, you know, that's the little short missed putt on 9 rattled me a little bit.  Then I felt like I recovered nicely.  I gave myself some chances coming in.  I hit some good putts that, unfortunately, didn't want to go in but other than that, I just got to do a bit more of the same tomorrow and see if we can take a title.
Q. You look at the way the leaderboard was shaping up with so many guys moving up and down on a Saturday, do you even pay attention to that or not?
SERGIO GARCIA: I saw it a little bit here and there, not every hole but I did see, you know, how things were kind of shaping up but we'll see.  Tomorrow is when it counts.  So, today was important to have a decent round and have a shot at it and tomorrow we'll have to play well and see what we can do.
Q. It's hard to believe it's been 12 years since you won here.  Do you think tomorrow you'll be able to draw on anything playing the closing holes under pressure will help you at all?
SERGIO GARCIA: 12 years.  I don't know.  It's hard to say.  Every tournament is a different feeling, every tournament is different.  So, you know, we'll see.  Hopefully tomorrow I'll feel good, I'll feel comfortable and I'll be able to swing freely and make -- put some good swings in then make some birdies and we'll get whatever we get and try to do the best we can.
Q. It's been four years since your last Tour win.  Do you like that?
SERGIO GARCIA: It is what it is.  Obviously I won somewhere else, which to me is important.  But I don't feel like -- I mean I obviously I think that in the past four years I've definitely played at least 10, 12 tournaments that I could have won.  Unfortunately, for one reason or another, you know, I kind of threw it away a little bit.  It is what it is.  It's never easy.  Winning is always hard and on the PGA TOUR it's even harder.
Q. Told you you wouldn't have won since Wyndham that day, would that surprise you?
SERGIO GARCIA: Tell me my four years would have been as consistent as they would have been, it doesn't bother me.  Obviously I'd rather be a consistent player like I've been my whole career than win one tournament and miss ten cuts.  I'd rather have more opportunities even if it doesn't happen but at least put myself in that position.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT