WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 5, 2016
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Great round, you mentioned the wind conditions were a lot different than the first two days.  Can you just talk about that?
SERGIO GARCÍA: Yeah, the wind changed completely.  A lot of new looks out there from early on in the week.  I think 9 is playing left-to-right, a little bit into the wind.  8, the same.  18, into the wind off the left, very, very tough.
It's already a tough finishing hole and with this wind, it's even tougher.  I hit a good one drive and a good 6-iron, so compared to yesterday where we were hitting sand wedges and wedges, it changes a lot.
Q. In those conditions, you must be pretty happy with your round, one blemish at 14 but pretty solid otherwise?
SERGIO GARCÍA: Yes, I felt like I played really well.  Obviously I hit a bad tee shot on 14 and it cost me a little bit.  Even though I felt like I hit a good one chip and a good putt, unfortunately we mis-read it.
But other than that, it was nice to make that birdie on 16, tied my fellow countryman, Rafa, with the low round of the day so far.  We'll see what happens.  There's still a lot of golf to be played out there.  If they don't go too crazy, we maybe have a little chance tomorrow.
Q. What have you done better each day as your rounds have improved?
SERGIO GARCÍA: I've obviously played a little bit better as the week went on.  Not that different.  It's just a couple putts that have dropped that have been lipping out the first couple of days.  You know, I'm giving myself a lot of good chances at birdies and eagles.  So when you can manage to do that, usually you're going to score fairly well.
Q. How long did it take you to kind of get over last week, or is that just more of a confidence-builder, given L.A.?
SERGIO GARCÍA: It probably took me -- as soon as I shook hands with Adam, it was over.  No, it was fine.  I mean, everybody -- I don't want to say everybody, but a lot of people want to take it the wrong way.  I don't.  I've thought I was coming off a terrible week at Riviera, which is a place I really, really enjoy and I was very disappointed with that.
I went to another week that I really enjoy with a great golf course and I played really well, and I hang in there without feeling great with my swing and everything, and I almost won.  And this week, I've been kind of getting a little bit better as the week went on.
So obviously all those things are positives and that's the way I'm always going to take it, win or lose, and you know, that's all I can do.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT