MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2016
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. You happy with the back nine today?  
SERGIO GARCIA: I'm happy with the front nine too. I feel like I played really well. You have to hit good shots that fly exactly at the right spots. And the way the course played, even more.   
But I was really happy to see the course the way it was. I think Augusta should be played like this, firm greens. They're very difficult, but, you know, better than being able to put it anywhere and making it a putting contest.  
Obviously I felt like I played very well for three days, without really getting much out of it. And then one terrible round. I guess if you look at it that way it's not too bad, but it could have been much better.  
   
 Q. You enjoy playing here the more you play here?  
SERGIO GARCIA: It is very challenging. It is hard. Sometimes maybe you feel that it's not fair, but I guess the game is not fair itself. It is very difficult, but as you spend more and more time you try to figure out ways of what works best for you and what makes you click a little bit more when you come here. But I'm still trying to figure it out all the way. So hopefully I can play another 18 times and maybe I'll get it done by then.  
   
 Q. Do you still see a lot of shots? Players before had mentioned‑‑  
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, I do, just trying to pick one of them and go with it. I think this week I was a little bit better at that. I felt like for the most part I drove the ball well all week. I drove it quite far, which was nice. Just a couple of shots here and there that probably deserved a lot more and holes I could have made birdie and ended up making doubles. It happened probably at least three times this week. So mentally those are really tough moments. And it's hard to overcome them. So I've just got to keep working on it.   
   
 Q. The Ryder Cup question. The way the team is shaping up a lot of young guys in there. How much of a help would it be to have Ian Poulter in that team come September?  
SERGIO GARCIA: It's always important, and when it comes to Ryder Cup even more. But I think the most important thing is to have people that are playing well. Obviously if I'm playing well, I'd love to be on that team. Poulter, the same thing. But we have to be playing well. At the end of the day the best thing is to have guys on form.  
   
 Q. (Inaudible.)  
SERGIO GARCIA: It crosses our mind for sure. But it's still so far away. Don't even know if I'm going to be on the team myself. Still a long time to go. And we've got to‑‑ we'll probably start looking at it in the summer after the British Open, that's probably when everything will start going a little bit crazy.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT