SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 3, 2020
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Well played so far this week.  What do you feel like has been the key for your good play this week?
 SERGIO GARCIA:   I don't know, everything, I guess.  Just been feeling comfortable.  I obviously enjoy the course.  Just believing in myself, trusting myself.  That's what I have to do tomorrow, too.  Obviously Sunday it's always a little bit more difficult, but I've got to go out there and go through the same routine and just go with it, even if you stumble a little bit early on or something like that, just believe that what you're doing is right, and that's what I'm going to try to do.
 Q. This golf course requires you to drive the ball well, put it in the fairway and hit good iron shots.  Is that something that kind of pumps you up a little bit knowing those are your strengths and if I can do that, I can be successful here?
 SERGIO GARCIA:   Yes, but you have to be -- even playing as well as I played today, you're still going to miss a couple of greens here and there because it's a little tricky with the way the greens are, as fast as they are.  You're hitting to small spots because you know that if you miss your spot it's going to run and you're going to have a longish putt that is not easy to two-putt.  Your short game still has to be good, which it has been for me, and your putter has to be good.  I've been able to put pretty much everything together this week, and I have to do more of the same tomorrow.
 Q. There's been conversation about the fact that when you're putting you're closing your eyes.  Is that actually what you're doing, or is that just how it's perceived?
 SERGIO GARCIA:   I don't know why -- it is what I'm doing, but I don't know why it's such a big deal.  I don't see anywhere in the book of rules of golf where it says that you can't do it.  At the end of the day we're all trying to find ways to be better, to be more consistent, and that's what works for me.  I've done it for quite a while now in practice and obviously in most of my tournaments.  It's just a personal thing that I feel like it helps me, and that's why I do it.
 Q. (On how he putted.)
 SERGIO GARCIA:   Obviously I could have holed more.  I'm not going to lie to you there, but I think from 1 to 10 I would give myself at least a 9 or 9½.  And I'm not giving myself a 10 because two or three putts could have gone in and then it would have been even better.
 You know, the way I felt, the way I went through my routine, the way I was thinking over the ball and stuff, it was very positive, and I hit a lot of good putts, even the one on 18, the one on 17 looked like it was going to go in and unfortunately it didn't, so that's all you can do.
 Q. You're a guy who kind of wears his emotions on his sleeve.  Looks like you're really having fun this week.  What do you credit that to?
 SERGIO GARCIA:   Well, I try to have fun every week I play golf.  I love playing golf, and this is what I know how to do best.  At the end of the day obviously if you're playing well and you're getting good results, it's easier to enjoy it, and the beautiful thing about this game is that it can frustrate you, too.  Sometimes you don't play quite as well or sometimes you play well and you get nothing out of your round, and it's a little bit frustrating.  But that's why we love it so much, because if it was easy, everyone would do it, and if it was easy, you'd probably get bored.  It's fun to have days like this to make up for some of the other ones.
 Q. What were you most happy about today?
 SERGIO GARCIA:   Everything.  I think my attitude was great.  I think the way I committed to pretty much every shot I hit and pretty much every putt I hit was very good, and I'm very proud of that.
 Q. Are you working on your attitude as much as you're working on your putting?
 SERGIO GARCIA:   You're always working on your attitude.  I think that you can always be better.  There's no doubt.  It's not easy at times, but you can always be better out there on the course, and that's what we try.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT