THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 26, 2016
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Second straight day under par here at The Honda Classic, how would you compare today's effort?  
SERGIO GARCIA: I felt like probably played a little bit better yesterday.  It was a little bit tough, but still, the course is getting tougher every day.  It wasn't easy at all today, a couple difficult pins.  But overall, I felt like it was a solid round.  It puts me in a good situation, obviously much better than last week.  We'll see what we can do on the weekend.   
 Q.  What do you most look forward to these final two rounds, playing well and having control of your game?  
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, well, I'm excited about it.  I'm excited to feel like I'm playing a little bit better, to be up there is a good thing.  We'll take all of those good things and try to use them to our advantage.   
 Q.  How much fun are you and Rickie having out there?  
SERGIO GARCIA: It's great.  He's a good friend of mine.  We always enjoy playing together.  So it's great to be a part of the same group, and we'll see, maybe tomorrow it would be nice if we can do it again but it's always good fun.   
 Q.  Talk about another solid day.  How would you classify today's effort?  
SERGIO GARCIA: Yes, I felt like I played quite well.  Obviously the course, it's not getting any easier as the week goes on.  The wind was still up, not as much as yesterday but it was still challenging.  I felt like I played quite good.  Just a couple mistakes here and there, but other than that, it was good.   
 Q.  We talked yesterday about your putting, and again, the stroke looks really good.  
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, it feels good.  Just one bad putt on the first hole I hit too hard and my second putt was good.  It just broke a little more than I thought.  Just a couple of chips here and there that I should have gotten closer and maybe got a shot at two there, but other that that, it was good.   
 Q.  7, did you think that was going in?  
SERGIO GARCIA: When I saw it rolling up the hill, I thought it had a great chance.  You know, unfortunate it didn't go in but making two there, it was already a good thing, so one would have been amazing.   
 Q.  Talk about the weekend and a chance to win again.  
SERGIO GARCIA: We'll see.  Tomorrow is going to be an important day.  Rickie is playing really, really well, so I'm going to have to play extremely well to keep up with him.  We'll see.  Hopefully we have a good chance on Sunday, be up there, playing well and see what we can do.   
 Q.  You must be excited going into the weekend.  
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, it's been a solid first couple of days, obviously on a tough golf course, so, yeah, it was nice.  It was nice to play with Rickie.  He's obviously playing very, very well.  I'm going to need two good rounds to close out the weekend.   
 Q.  What do you have to do better on the weekend to win?  
SERGIO GARCIA: Not many things.  Probably a couple shots here and there, but it is a tough golf course.  It's not that easy, so a couple of chips, I would love to hit a little bit better, but other than that, I felt like for the most part, I was in pretty good shape throughout the whole day.   
 Q.  Is this a course, with the patience involved, that you think you play better as you get older?  
SERGIO GARCIA: Every course, every course needs patient.  This one probably more than others, but any time you're playing a golf course that is challenging you as much as this one, it's kind of like a mini-major.  It's always going to ask you to be very, very patient out there, and you're going to make some mistakes, so you've just got to deal with them and hopefully make more good things than bad things.   
 Q.  Do you enjoy the challenge, especially the wind?  It seems to maybe give you an advantage, because you're so well suited to playing.  
SERGIO GARCIA: I've always enjoyed playing with wind.  I'd rather play with wind than with rain.  Yeah, I enjoy the challenge of windy days.  Obviously windy days are playable, but I've always seemed to do fairly well when the wind is up.   
 Q.  Your style, your ball-striking, seems to help you, obviously it's better than a lot.  Do you notice on a day like this?  I think yesterday might have been windier, but could you tell, putting up that really good score on a tough day?  
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, I guess for the top players, we usually do a little bit better when the tougher the course plays, we can rely on our ball-striking.  When it becomes a putting contest, it's obviously a little bit -- everybody can do better.  It's easier for everybody.   
So yeah, I guess we do enjoy these kind of conditions a little bit better.   
 Q.  Why do you think that you play well in the wind?  
SERGIO GARCIA: I don't know.  I like it.  I enjoy it.   
 Q.  What's your reaction to seeing the Americans get together en masse in February to talk about The Ryder Cup?  
SERGIO GARCIA: I don't know what they talked about.   
 Q.  Just the fact that they are getting together in an outing six months before The Ryder Cup.  
SERGIO GARCIA: I mean, I don't know, we'll see.  If it works, it's great.  If it doesn't, then, you know, they will try something else.  There's really not much I can comment on that.  We'll see if it pays off or not in September.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT