CIMB CLASSIC
October 28, 2015
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We would like to welcome Sergio Garcia to the interview room.  Thank you for joining us.  Last season four top-10s on the PGA TOUR including a CIMB T-2.  This is your third year playing in Malaysia at this tournament.  Maybe some comments about why you keep coming back.
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, well hello, everyone.  No, it's nice.  Obviously, I managed to play well both years here, so always exciting to come to Asia at the end of the year, which is the beginning of the season for the PGA TOUR.
So, we're excited.  Hopefully, we'll get some decent weather and it was actually quite nice today.  It wasn't too humid.  It wasn't too hot.
So, the course is looking very nice.  Obviously, a little soft, but other than that, it looks nice.
THE MODERATOR: What about this golf course suits your game.
SERGIO GARCIA: I don't know, I guess I just managed to play well both years.  It's the kind of course that you have to drive the ball well.  It's asking you to hit a lot of good shots, because if you start hitting from the rough, there's a lot of shots into the greens that are very difficult to get close and even hold the green.
So, if you manage to do that, you can score decent, because it's not terribly long.  You have a lot of holes where you can score and make some birdies.  So, I guess that's pretty much about it.
THE MODERATOR: If you could, just some comments about your form coming into this week.
SERGIO GARCIA: Well, my form is nonexistent.  I haven't played -- I played one week out of the last nine, I think.  So, no, but I'm excited about it.  Obviously, I feel quite good.
It's just a matter of going out there and getting a good rhythm, getting some good confidence going, and manage to put yourself up there with a chance.  So that's the goal for this week.
THE MODERATOR: All right.  Take some questions.
Q. You said that your form was off --
SERGIO GARCIA: No, I didn't say it was off.  I said it was non-existent because I haven't played.
(Laughter.)
Q. So what are you looking to maybe turn that around this week?
SERGIO GARCIA: No, no, don't get me wrong.  I said it's nonexistent because I haven't played.  I'm not saying that I'm not playing well.  I mean, obviously, I haven't played much the last two months.
So, practicing is always easy when it comes down to tournament, it's always a little bit more tense, and it's a little bit tougher to play as well as you do on the practice rounds.
But I've been practicing and it doesn't mean that I haven't been playing at all, it just means competition-wise I haven't played that much.
But I'm excited about it.  It's just a matter of getting in a rhythm and going through the routine and everything that you do and at the end of the day it's just trusting yourself, believing that you are able to hit the shots and then just do it.
Q. How is the course playing?
SERGIO GARCIA: The course is obviously soft, it's been raining the last at least couple of days.  It's a little bit soft and you get a little bit of mud on the ball in the fairway, but the greens are really nice.  I think they're probably the best I've seen in the last three years.
And the course, overall, looks really, really good.  So if we could manage to get some decent weather and, hopefully, the course firms up a little bit.  But it's difficult when pretty much every afternoon it seems like it rains.  But the course is good.
Q. Is there anything new equipment-wise that you're using?
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, well, yeah, I have a lot of new clubs in my bag.  Obviously, I have the new M1 driver that I've been using for over a month.
I have the new M1 woods, 3-wood and 5-wood.  I've been using those for a couple of weeks.
And the new PSI irons.  So, I'm excited to see how they -- how I feel with them during the tournament and get a good feel for them.  They feel good at the moment, so it's just a matter of that I've been trying them for awhile now, since we started testing awhile back earlier this year.  So, hopefully, they will work good.
Q. What are some surprising facts when it comes to nutrition that people don't know that golfers stress about?
SERGIO GARCIA: Well, I've never been, I guess -- I feel very fortunate about the food that I have eaten my whole life.  In Spain, we have a huge variety of great food.  So, for me, it's not difficult to eat a lot of different things.  So, I'm not like a meat guy all the time or a fish guy.  So, I try to mix it up a little bit.  If I eat meat one night, then I'll probably have fish or chicken the next night.
So, for me, it's very easy to eat a lot of different things and kind of mix it up, to make sure that my nutrition is good.
I guess the only -- my only kind of -- how can I say it?  Sin would be I enjoy a little bit of ice cream here and there.  But I lose control of myself a little bit here and there.
But other than that, I like vegetables and all kind of meats and fish and chicken and all those things.  So, it's easy.
Q. You've been here many times, you like Asia.  What is it about Asia in particular that appeals to you.  And question number two, there's been a dramatic change in footwear, the days of spikes seem to have gone.  What is it -- how is it that no longer is it necessary to have such anchor and you can still hit the ball as far as you do?
SERGIO GARCIA: Well, I think that comes down to technology and the great work that companies are doing.  In my case obviously, Adidas, I've been with them for 17 years pretty much, 16 and change.  And I think that the technology that they come out with now, with the soft spikes and everything, they work really, really good, all the traction they give and everything.  Not only on the spike itself, but everything around the sole of the shoe.  So, I changed to soft spikes probably seven or eight years ago, six, seven years ago.  So, I'm really happy with them.
And then about Asia, I always enjoyed it.  I've always said that I consider myself a worldwide player.
I enjoy playing in Europe.  I love playing in Europe.  Obviously, it is my main tour, it's the tour I came out of and I still play there.
Obviously, I play the PGA TOUR, too.  So I travel a lot to the U.S.
But I really enjoy coming back to Asia and playing in China and Malaysia and Thailand and I'm going to go to Vietnam this year which I've never been so I'm excited about that.  The only thing that I would love to go back to is Japan.  I haven't had a chance of or an opportunity to go back there, I would love to.  I really enjoy going to Japan and Australia.  I haven't been to those two countries for awhile.  But other than that I enjoy the beginning of the year to come here and with a nice little taste of Asia.
Q. Why are there so many successful athletes in all sports coming out of Spain?
SERGIO GARCIA: No, I guess just we have really good weather, that kind of helps on every single sport.  You can practice it all year long pretty much in Spain, all around it.  So that always helps.  I think that the youth academies and everything that they have been doing for the past 15, 20 years, they have improved a lot.  So, it helps to see more youngsters coming up, very prepared in all their sports, not only football or basketball or tennis, golf, you know, all kinds of things.
So I think that for the past 10, 15 years, I think that in Spain we have been very, very fortunate with all the sport people that we have had traveling around.  So, very proud of that.
Q. (No Microphone.)
SERGIO GARCIA: The genes are the genes.
Q. Is there anything different you'll be doing in Malaysia for enjoyment?
SERGIO GARCIA: No, unfortunately not.  Unfortunately, I would love to stick around, but we play in Shanghai next week, so I'm flying probably Monday and I need to get ready for a couple weeks in Shanghai with HSBC and so we'll enjoy it as much as we can this week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT