THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2015
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What were your thoughts on today's round?SERGIO GARCIA: Well, I started really well.  Obviously the front nine was the one to go after, and up until 10, which was -- yeah, the front end was where you wanted to go after it because it was playing a little bit easier.  Tricky with so much wind this afternoon, but a little bit easier.  You could get some birdies if you hit really good shots. I managed to do that, then coming in, we all knew it was going to be survival time.  It was going to be tough to make birdies.  It was going to be really, really difficult, and some holes pars were tough.  Obviously a couple little putts on 13 and 17, but really, to me I feel like a lot of things had to go my way to finish 15- or 16-under because it was playing really, really tough.  You know, I'm obviously -- I would love to finish a couple better, but I'm still happy with the week.Q. You've been close once again, though.  Is it frustrating?SERGIO GARCIA: No, not at all.  It's great.  I love it.  I love this tournament.  I love these crowds.  I love these courses.  I'm just going to keep giving myself chances until things happen, and then hopefully I manage to win at least one of these.  I would love to win a British Open.  But even if I don't, the experiences I've had at these championships, they've been amazing, and nobody can take that away from me.Q. Can you talk about picking up a few birdies on the front so you're in the mix?SERGIO GARCIA: Well, I'm in the mix but I'm 5-under.  I think I'm playing amazing and I'm still two or three back.  So it is tough.  It is tough, because you know the back nine is playing difficult, and you know that it's going to be difficult to make two or three birdies coming in and no bogeys.  And then unfortunately my tee shot on 12 just went one yard too far right and have no shot, make bogey, and then I got to 13 and I see that I'm 13-under, and I'm like three shots back and I'm seventh.  I'm not even in the top three or four, and I feel like, what's going on, how is everybody playing so great in the weather we had this afternoon, because this morning was much easier.  You know, it was a little bit of a shame, but you know, I always like to be realistic, and I really feel like unless everything would have happened exactly like it needed to happen for me, I think that maybe I could have got it to 13, 14-under, being realistic, and that's still not enough.  Kudos to the guys that are playing so well.Q. Can you talk about your relationship with The Open Championship crowd, as well, because they gave you a great reception?SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, it's great.  You know, I'm going to be eternally thankful to them because they've always been amazing to me through all these years, and to keep being amazing to me.  The only thing I can do is kind of give them a lot of love back like I did on 18, and I'm going to do it every year because they deserve it.  It's as simple as that.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT