TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 23, 2015
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  SERGIO GARCIA: It's a really nice tournament, great sponsor, nice golf course.  So I think I've played it this is my fourth time I believe.  So did well last year.  Obviously, you're always happy to come back somewhere where you've played well before, and I'm excited to do better.Q. Is it nice to be on a course where you guys can score after that really difficult conditions at Chambers Bay?SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, playing the week after a major, usually if you're not too worn out, it's nice because everything feels really easier, I guess.  But we'll see.  I guess it depends a little bit on the weather we get too. But it is a solid golf course.  It's not easy.  We saw last year the greens are not that big, and it can be very, very challenging too.Q. The Pro-Am is a good part of this event.  What are your thoughts playing with the amateurs before a PGA TOUR event?SERGIO GARCIA: I enjoy it.  I think it's great.  Obviously, it's something that we need to do and we have to do.  We have to try to take care of our sponsors the best way possible.  For me, it's also nice because I get to get an extra look at the course.  So if you take it that way and you enjoy your partners, actually you make some good friends, you make some good relationships, and you get a good look at the course.Q. (Indiscernible)?SERGIO GARCIA: Some look good, but some you're definitely trying not to over do it.Q. The Open is always a grind, and most of the golfers when they come here, the one thing about this course it seems they all feel it's very fair.  You get rewarded for good shots and penalized for bad shotes.  Is that how you feel?SERGIO GARCIA: Definitely.  Yeah, I think that it's got a lot of holes that if you hit a good shot you can make birdie or eagle.  And if the shot is not hit properly you can easily make bogey.  So it's definitely got a good, great finish for the last four holes.  So I think that it's got a great mix of little holes around the course.Q. I may have asked you this last year, but you've been such a great Ryder Cup player through the years, and you guys have owned the U.S., obviously, for a long time now.  Yet when you come here in tournaments, you're still very popular.  Can you talk about that a little bit?SERGIO GARCIA: Well --Q. We don't hold it against you, in other words.SERGIO GARCIA: Well, some do (laughing).  No, I think at the end of the day that people like to watch good golf and they enjoy the way we play.  Obviously when it comes to the Ryder Cup they have their side, we have our side.  But I think at the end of the day it's just good sports, enjoying it.  Obviously, I'm around to have fun, but when Barcelona plays great, I say it, it's great.  It's as simple as that.Q. Why have you guys been so dominant, do you think?SERGIO GARCIA: I don't want to give you the secrets (laughing).  No, I think it's just one of those runs you get on.  I think the relationships we have within the players is really, really good.  I think it's very easy for us to find match-ups for foursomes and Four-Balls.  So when that happens, everything seems to be easy. You don't have to think too much about who you want to pair with, and is this going to be good enough or not.  So I think those things kind of help with the team spirit on it.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT