THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2015
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Your thoughts on how this played out today, that great putt at 17 got you in the playoff, what were your thoughts on the day?  SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, I played nicely.  Just obviously the tee the shot on 14, that's an uncomfortable tee shot with the wind from the left.  Other than that, I felt like I did well.  I hit a lot of good shots today, I hit a lot of good putts.  And it's a shame. Obviously, I thought I had hit a great putt on 18 now, it just didn't break as much as I thought.  But overall, it was another good week here at THE PLAYERS, so I can't be disappointed.   Q.  The putt at 18 the second time around it was like maybe two feet closer, similar line to the one you had at 17?  SERGIO GARCIA: Very similar.  Obviously, it was windier, so it kind of, might have pushed it a little bit, but it kind of broke quite a lot.  So I thought that just hit a little bit more than you did in regulation, obviously a little bit less wind, and I started it right on the line I wanted, but unfortunately, it just didn't move.   Q.  What's it like being in that arena?  SERGIO GARCIA: It was great for the most part.  Obviously, some guys there that don't deserve to be here watching golf, but that's what it is.   Q.  Is that on your tee shot on 17?  SERGIO GARCIA: It was probably about, it was probably about three or four times on every hole since the 10th hole.   Q.  14, what was the lie like next to the cart path?  Was it sitting down quite a bit?  SERGIO GARCIA: No, in the cart path it's difficult for it to sit down.  But, no, it was one of those things that you don't practice, so you don't know how it's going to come out.  Probably I probably should have hit one more club.  But you don't know if it's going to come out a little left or a little right, and obviously left wasn't good at all.  The bunker was fine. But it just came out little bit right of what I thought, but I thought I hit a great chip and I and a really good putt.  Unfortunately, it didn't go in.  But, it was a good week. Today it was different.  Today I played good.  I putted quite good.  But for the rest, for the rest of the week, I gave away a lot of shots and still almost won this tournament.  So I can't be disappointed.   Q.  Were you surprised by the surge that Fowler had to get to 12?  SERGIO GARCIA: I didn't, I wasn't really watching much.  I heard when I finished how he finished, so that was obviously an amazing finish.  It shows a lot of character from him.  But I think we all three did some amazing things coming in.  Birdieing 16 and 17 and Kisner and myself and obviously what Rickie did.  So, it was, I thought it was a well played championship.   Q.  You did what had you to do there coming into 16.  At that point you were already two behind, going birdie, birdie.  I don't know how likely you felt the one on 17 would be, but --  SERGIO GARCIA: Well, funny enough, I made that putt before.  I think it was 2006 or 2007.  I made a similar putt.  Not as long, but similar line to finish second. So I knew what the putt was going to do then it's just all luck, obviously, to be able to make a putt like that.  But at least I gave myself a chance.  Unfortunately, it didn't come my way.  But it was still a good week.   Q.  What did you think of the three hole playoff format?  SERGIO GARCIA: I like better 17 only. (Laughter.)  No, I think it's good.  When you have such a big championship like this, like THE PLAYERS, I think it's nice to have three holes.  It seems more fair to everyone.   Q.  Did you like the electric atmosphere of it?  SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, the atmosphere was okay.   Q.  Did you just feel differently over the putter today?  SERGIO GARCIA: No.  I mean, I just, obviously, started well, I hit a great putt on the first, even though it didn't go in. I made a nice putt on 2.  Nice little short one on 3 and 4 and 5.  I got on a good run there. Even the ones I wasn't making, I was hitting a lot of good putts. So, I don't know, I just kind of felt it a little bit better today.  It's just, that's the way it is.  Some days you feel better with the game, some days you don't.  But today was, it was good.  It was a shame it was just a little too short.   Q.  Did some of the fans cause you to miss a shot?  SERGIO GARCIA: No, no, no, they shouted at the wrong time on top of the ball, so I was able to back away.  But, no, no, I wouldn't say that I did, no.   Q.  Was that more than usual though for you, that amount of heckling?  SERGIO GARCIA: When I get in contention, no, not really.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT