THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 7, 2015
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Talk about how the course was out there with the wind the way it's blowing today.  SERGIO GARCIA: It was tough.  Definitely the good weather and the windy conditions definitely firmed it up as the day went on. I guess the greens weren't as fast as we can see them here.  But it was quite gusty, changing a little bit, so it made some shots quite difficult.   Q.  Make 18 play a little tougher with it straight in like that?  SERGIO GARCIA: Definitely.  I obviously bailed out a little bit right, but you can see it happened around us, without hitting bad shots -- and Phil hit a pretty decent tee shot and it just drifted a little bit with the wind and went in the water.  I think that Tiger and Adam hit in the water, too. So it's just a tough tee shot when the wind is like that.  If it's a little bit more from the right, at least you can hold it a little bit and find your way around it.  But it was -- I'm very happy with my four, I guess.   Q.  Great finish, tough conditions out today with the wind.  I know you're using a different putting grip, you missed some short ones, but it had to make you feel good with the finish on 16, 17, and what I would like to call a Seve par on 18.  You and Glen must be feeling really good going forward.  SERGIO GARCIA: No, that was nice.  Definitely, yeah, I did miss a couple short ones here and there.  Obviously, I'm working hard on my putting and trying to figure it out.  It's not easy under pressure and everything. But I made some nice putts too, which was nice.  Obviously, shooting 3-under par on this course, on perfect conditions you're happy.  So on conditions like today, I'm very happy.   Q.  What's good about your game at the moment?  SERGIO GARCIA: It depends which hole you look at. (Laughter.)   Q.  Just in general.  SERGIO GARCIA: I don't know, I felt like my iron play has been fairly solid.  Obviously, my chipping has been quite good for the most part.  But it's just a matter of keep working hard, keep believing in your self as much as possible, and when you hit a bad shot, try to manage a way to find a par or bogey at the most, so that's what we tried.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT