WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 27, 2021
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Victory over Mackenzie Hughes coming off the 17th hole.  Win and advance to the quarterfinals this afternoon.  This match was even as you two moved to the 9th hole, and then you won four the next six holes after that.  What were you able to do well in that stretch to separate?
 SERGIO GARCIA:   I was -- I mean, I obviously hit some really good shots.  Mackenzie gave me a couple helps here on 9 and 10.  Obviously he pulled it left into the hazard; I won that one.  And then he made bogey on 10 from probably like 70 yards.  So that was obviously very nice.
 But then he made a great birdie on 11, and then I started hitting really good shots, 12, 13, even 15.  I thought I made that putt and I was able to get up.
 Still made it tough.  He had a good chance here on 17.  He hit a good putt, unfortunately just missed left for him.
 Q. You have yet to face an American in this championship this week, and that trend will continue because you're facing France's Victor Perez.  What do you know about him?
 SERGIO GARCIA:   We're actually pretty good friends.  He's a great guy.  Very good player obviously.  Very much I think on a very high potential Ryder Cup player for this year in my opinion.
 Yeah, it's been good.  We played some practice rounds together.  He's kind of reached out to me when he's been playing here in the U.S. and I've tried to make him feel as comfortable as possible.
 Hopefully we'll have a great match this afternoon.
 Q. The middle of the golf course, those holes, 11, 12, 13, always seem to play such a big difference in every match, and you just dominated those holes.  What a good job you did.
 SERGIO GARCIA:   Thank you.  Yeah, that was fun.  It was nice to hit some of the shots I hit there.  The chip on 12 from the green and then the shot on 13 I think probably took a little bit of air out of him.
 Then he came back strong with two really good shots on 16.  I wasn't able to make my birdie, and then I was fortunate that he didn't make the putt.
 Q. Yeah, this golf course, this formula, so hard to close out matches.  Victor Perez in the afternoon.  You are maybe somewhat of a mentor to him.  I know you're friends and he's asked you for advice in the past.
 SERGIO GARCIA:   We're good friends.  Obviously he's a wonderful guy, great player, and I think in my opinion probably going to be in the Ryder Cup team this year.  He would be a good addition to it if he keeps playing the way he's playing.
 Yeah, we played some practice rounds here in the U.S.  He has reached out to me and asked me for a little help here and there.  I was very happy to do because he's a great guy.
 Q. Who is this little girl over here, Sergio, your fan club holding the sign in her Easter dress.
 SERGIO GARCIA:   I don't know actually.
 Q. You got to go over and say hi to her.
 SERGIO GARCIA:   I did already.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT