COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 22, 2015
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How do you evaluate that performance? 
SERGIO GARCIA:   I felt like probably played‑‑ I gave away a couple of shots, I played probably a little better yesterday.   Still trying to kind of find my way with the putter.   I hit some really nice putts, made a couple nice ones, and then I make a bogey, some not‑so‑nice ones.   Overall, I think it's not too bad.   We are there for the weekend and we'll need a good weekend to have a chance.

Q.   Obviously swinging well, you talk about the putter.   When you come to the golf course today and it's flat calm; there a sense of urgency out there, trying to get the ball in the hole and really make some headway?
SERGIO GARCIA:   I guess a little bit.   You know that there's a lot of holes that you're going to have some birdie chances.   Obviously there were some good pins out there that made some of those easier holes more complicated.
But yeah, you do need to shoot definitely under par or at least to not lose a lot of ground.   We were able to do that and hopefully we'll do a little bit on the weekend.

Q.   Very early start here, you have plenty of time this afternoon.   Will you work on your putting or go put your feet up? 
SERGIO GARCIA:   I might do ten minutes of putting.   Mainly just relax a little bit, do a little work out later in the afternoon and just kind of get ready for tomorrow.

Q.   You had a nice break, first event of the year, defending champion, so you had a lot to look forward to.   How comfortable are you out there with it being your first tournament of the year? 
SERGIO GARCIA:   I'm fairly good.   I wouldn't say amazing, but not too bad.   Obviously there's always a little bit of rust first week back and a little bit of uncertainty, you may say.   But for the most part, I felt quite good.   I would love to kind of get a little bit more comfortable with my putting, but other than that, it's been a decent two days.

Q.   How much preparation did you do coming in here?   Did you go someplace warm and practice or just come in and let it flow?
SERGIO GARCIA:   No, I did do a little bit of practise.   Not a whole lot, but I took my opportunity to rest a little bit and maybe work a little bit more physically and then kind of enjoy my time with family and friends and stuff.
But I did a little bit of practise on the last week, and slowly, hopefully we're getting better and better.

Q.   There were some tough pins out there today compared to the first round, and a lot of grain changes.   Is that more difficult to hole putts, especially if you're further away from the hole. 
SERGIO GARCIA:   Definitely it is, and also when the grain changes, it usually means that it's going to be a double‑breaker.   So it's difficult to get those right. 
But you know, overall, like you said, I felt like there were some really good, strong pin positions out there.   Obviously they knew that the wind wasn't going to be too strong today and they were able to do that. 
So, you know, because of that, probably the scores are not maybe as good as they were yesterday. 

Q.   What is your verdict on two rounds of 69 for a nice healthy position on that board? 
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yes, obviously can't be too disappointed with it.   I felt like I definitely could have done a little bit better, but I guess probably Henrik could say the same thing.
You know, overall, I'm pretty satisfied about it, and hopefully I can do maybe a little bit better on the weekend.

Q.   And first performance of 2015, good foundation, good start?
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, not too bad to start with.   Like I said, it's a decent start or the first couple of days, and hopefully we can keep improving as the week goes on.

Q.   Clearly we have got near perfect weather conditions, but it's not easy out there, is it?
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, I think the weather is absolutely perfect, great temperature and very little breeze. 
But there were there very challenging positions out there, pin positions, so obviously that made it a little bit tougher to get the ball close and make a few more birdies. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT