CIMB CLASSIC
October 31, 2014
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Another solid day for you. 
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah.   I felt like I played quite well again.   Obviously, you know, I left a couple of good opportunities out there on the back nine, but I also made a couple nice putts on 13, 14, 15. 
So you know, overall it was a pretty good day, good couple of days so far, and more for the weekend.

Q.   This is right where you want to be heading into the last two rounds, isn't it?
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah.   There's no doubt I would love to be two or three shots better.   I feel like I probably could have the first two days, but other than that, I felt like the play was quite solid throughout the two days, and I just gotta keep going, keep doing the same things.

Q.   I know you guys deal with it a lot in Asia, but these rain delays, how do you deal with it?   What do you do?
SERGIO GARCIA:   Nothing.   You gotta‑‑ you know, there's one thing we can't control is nature, and you know, this happens and you just gotta realize that that's the way it is, just stay calm, eat a little bit, kind of get ready for the restart and then try to play the best way possible on the restart.

Q.   Lee had a good day as well, and I mean does it sort of like rub each other's game off when he's having a good day and you're having a good day as well?
SERGIO GARCIA:   I don't know.   I guess it always helps when your playing partner is playing well.   It doesn't always work that way, I guess, but yeah, he had a great day.   He obviously played very solid, and every time you make a hole‑in‑one it's always a special day, so yeah, it was good.

Q.   Two days here already on the course here.   Are you seeing the shots that you want to hit out there on the golf course?
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, for the most part.   Felt like I hit a lot of good shots.   Obviously a couple of shots that, you know, that I would love to hit a little bit better, but other than that, it's been quite good, and just gotta keep going the same direction and have a good weekend.

Q.   What will be your plan when you step on the first tee tomorrow?
SERGIO GARCIA:   Same thing.   Just kind of keep playing solid like I've been doing all week, and keep giving myself chances and try to score the best way possible. 

Q.   Tell us a little bit about that change of putter[]. 
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah.   I mean I've obviously‑‑ you know, I've been putting with it for probably three years, and it's been good, don't get me wrong, but I like to practice normal.   And you know, I've been thinking about it for probably for some months now to try to get some tournament play under pressure with a normal grip, and it's felt pretty good. 
Obviously I hit a couple bad putts here and there, but other than that, I felt like I hit a lot of good putts, even the one on the last day I just misread it, but it's been quite good; I made some good putts.   I hit some good putts that unfortunately didn't go in, but it feels good.   It's something that I wanted to try and see if I could do it. 
I think usually my speed is a little bit better when I putt with a normal grip than‑‑ and with the slow greens it's a little bit better, so it's just something that I wanted to try.

Q.   Is it just this week that you've switched back?
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, I've been practicing with it for a long time.

Q.   In tournament play? 
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah.   In tournament play.   We'll see how it goes on the weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT