CIMB CLASSIC
November 1, 2014
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   So great start to the round, and then some great stuff you did on the back nine there.   I mean can you talk a little bit about what happened with those shots and then the great up‑and‑downs and your ability to fight and stay in it.   
SERGIO GARCIA:   Well, yeah, at the end of day that's what I try to do all the time, you know, give it my best, and unfortunately‑‑ don't get me wrong.   I'm not trying to hit shots like that tee shot on 17, obviously.   But you know, sometimes it happens and you just gotta deal with it.  
So you know, I started quite well, you know, felt okay, not amazing, not as good as the first two days, but I felt like I was getting things done quite nicely.   And then, you know, unfortunately, after the rain delay, the greens were much slower, so I three‑putted 11 for bogey, and then I made a couple of nice saves.   
You know, 14, obviously a little unfortunate because it wasn't a bad shot.   Just the wind kind of switched on me a little bit, and obviously wasn't able to reach with a 3‑wood.   
And then the same thing happened on the next.   You know, I hit a good nice 7‑iron straight at the pin, and the wind was supposed to be a little bit down, and it switched into me and ended up just short, but made par.   And then a really good 4 on 17.   Shame a didn't birdie the last, but I guess I got away with a couple there on 14 and 17.  
   
 Q.   And overall, the conditions, you talked about the greens, but your scrambling ability and how‑‑ the rough had to be like very penalizing.   Was it a change after the delay?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   Well, no.   I think it's been the same pretty much all week.   You know, it's fairly heavy in spots and is very, very wet.   So it's difficult to‑‑ you usually don't get very nice lies.   
So you know, like it happened, for example, at 12.   I hit a good drive, I thought it was going to be in the fairway, and it just missed the fairway by three feet.   And then you're kind of trying to guess how the ball is going to react out of there.   So it becomes a little bit tougher, but I guess that's why it's important to hit as many fairways as possible, and we'll try to do that tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   And then I noticed your putting grip.   Do you just go back and forth on what feels comfortable for the day?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah.   I just didn't feel as comfortable as the first two days, like I said, with my whole game, and even on the putting green, I felt like it wasn't as smooth with the normal grip as has been the first two days.   And hit a couple of putts early on, and you know, just didn't feel that great, so I said, I'll just go back to my go‑to kind of grip, and putted quite nicely, I thought.   So I was happy with that.  
   
 Q.   And then lastly, you're in great position heading into tomorrow.   Your overall feelings and thoughts?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah.   Yes.   I'm going to have to play, obviously, a little bit better than I did today.   But yeah, I'm in contention again, trying to win another tournament, so we'll go out there and give it our best shot, try to be aggressive, try to be positive, and you know, I think if I can manage to do that, I should have a chance of winning.   
   
 Q.   Awesome.   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT