THE RYDER CUP
September 25, 2014
Sergio Garcia
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Thoughts, being paired with this fella?SERGIO GARCÍA: Yeah, anyone in the team is great, but obviously I couldn't ask for a better partner.  It's going to be a great match.Q. Your thoughts on with Sergio?RORY McILROY: Yeah, Sergio is one of my closest friends on Tour and we always got a long well.  I think that it was only a matter of time before we got together in Ryder Cup and played, and what a great way to start obviously against Phil and Keegan.  So it's an exciting match.  I again couldn't ask for a better partner.  He's playing fantastically well.  I know that I can rely on him and he's such a solid player.  So just excited for tomorrow morning.Q. We saw at Medinah, playing with Poulter who embodies The Ryder Cup spirit, and this guy does, as well.RORY McILROY: Exactly, you want that, and I feel like our personalities match up well.  We are both enthusiastic out there and we are both excited and we want to get going.  So I think it will be just as it was with Poulter at Medinah.  This will be a fantastic partnership, and yeah, it will be good.Q. And playing with the world No. 1, you've been smashing that driver on the range, excited about that?SERGIO GARCÍA: Yeah, definitely, it's going to be a great experience.  Obviously I've been fortunate to have great partners in The Ryder Cup, and this is no different. Obviously Keegan and Phil played really well at Medinah a couple years ago, so it will be nice to go out there and play well and play like we know how to play and take a point away from there, I think would be very important.Q. You've faced Phil and Keegan at Medinah, and you played them a few time in The Ryder Cups, so you know exactly what to expect.SERGIO GARCÍA: Yeah, obviously I played in foursomes there, and two players that obviously are very strong, have a lot of potential.  We know how well they can play.  But at the end of the day, we know how well we can play, too, and we know that if we play well -- the most important thing is that we play our own game.Q. Your thoughts on the opponents tomorrow?RORY McILROY: Yeah, they are obviously a very strong pairing, never been beaten before together, and we're looking to hand them their first defeat tomorrow morning.  So it will be a tough match, both great competitors.  Obviously we know how pumped up Keegan gets for The Ryder Cup from last time.  At the same time, we just have got to control what we can, go out there, play, put two balls in play, give ourselves two looks at every chance and if we can do that, put the pressure on them early, get the crowd behind us, that's what we need to do.Q. Great reception you both got at the ceremony.SERGIO GARCÍA: Yeah, Ryder Cup is very, very special, but when you play in a country like Scotland, it's difficult to choose a better place.  So yeah, the reception was amazing for all of us, but obviously when you get called your name and you're partners and you get a cheer like we got, it was quite unique.RORY McILROY: It was, it gave me goosebumps, it really did.  And to see the amount of people out there for the Opening Ceremony and how much it means to everyone in Scotland and for The Ryder Cup being back here, it's very special


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT