WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 3, 2014
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  SERGIO GARCIA:   Obviously, a little bit of a shame.   Obviously, Rory played really, really well.   He shot quite comfortable, 66. 
I felt like I played okay, not amazing, but obviously, I didn't feel comfortable on the greens at all.   With the spin of the greens changing quite dramatically after rain, they got a little bit‑‑ they were quite slow from the last three days. 
Unfortunately, I just‑‑ I couldn't get it.   I started kind of second‑guessing myself every single putt, and because of that, I didn't‑‑ the good putt I hit, I misread, and the bad ones, obviously, weren't going the right direction either.

Q.   You came up just short.   Would it take something really special right now to beat Rory the way he's playing? 
SERGIO GARCIA:   Well, he's obviously a really, really good player.   And you could see it today, the way he was hitting the ball out there, it was very nice.   I mean, it was nice to watch. 
So, yeah, obviously, when he's playing well, we know how good he can be.   But at the end of the day, the only thing I can do is keep trying. 
I just had one of those days where it didn't feel quite as good, and because of that, I wasn't able to get a little bit closer and maybe win it. 
Overall, I think it's still a good week.   I think it's my best week here ever.   So I can't be too disappointed about it.

Q.   Did you have a specific game plan in mind coming into the round, and did it change at all after the first three holes? 
SERGIO GARCIA:   No.   Obviously, I wanted to play well, and I wanted to try to shoot 3, 4 under.   I knew it was possible, the way the course was playing. 
Obviously, I hit a couple bad putts early on and lost a bit of confidence.   And he's done really, really well.   He made four birdies in the first five, and the one he missed, it was quite close too. 
So he really did what he needed to do, and unfortunately, I wasn't up to the challenge, I guess.

Q.   [ Inaudible ] ?
SERGIO GARCIA:   Well, we'll see.   When I get there, we'll see how the course fits and see how comfortable I feel there. 
I've been playing well.   So I'm excited about that.   Hopefully, I can have another good week there.

Q.   Can you talk about the diamond ring?   What happened when you got there? 
SERGIO GARCIA:   Oh, yeah.   I pulled it a little bit with a 3 wood.   It wasn't too bad a tee shot, left to right wind. 
I thought it hit the tree, but unfortunately, it hit a girl on the hand and actually hit her on the ring, on the diamond ring.   Apparently, the diamond flew off, and they were looking at it and trying to find it. 
Obviously, it didn't feel very good because, you know, you never like to hit anybody, but if you hit someone and make her lose her diamond ring, it feels even worse. 
When I was leaving, I told one of the marshals to get her contact numbers just in case, if they didn't find it, to sort it out in some way.   But fortunately, they found it.   I'll give her a call and make sure that she's okay.

Q.   Did you tell her you'd buy her one?   Because that's what some people were saying. 
SERGIO GARCIA:   Well, it probably would have gone to that, yes.   If they would not find the diamond, yeah, I was capable‑‑ I was‑‑ how do you say?   I was thinking‑‑ I was prepared to buy her one. 
I don't know how Kathy would have felt about that, but other than that, it was okay.

Q.   I lost a diamond out there today. 
SERGIO GARCIA:   Did you?   And was it my fault?

Q.   Did it take something out of you to see like so quickly after three holes that the lead was gone?   And then what do you have to do to try to recover and keep playing and not be discouraged? 
SERGIO GARCIA:   No.   I'm fine.   Obviously, I could have played better.   I didn't feel like I played that badly. 
But he played really good.   You've got to give him credit for that too. 
Like I said, without feeling amazing, I kept myself there and made some‑‑ played some tough holes well and made a nice birdie on 9 and got back to level. 
And then hit it close on 10, 11, and I need to make one of those two putts and maybe gets me going a little bit.   Unfortunately, I didn't.   He made a good birdie on 11. 
Then probably the thing that bothers me the most is the swing on 15.   I just‑‑ I need to get my head straight there and make my mind and hit the shot, and whatever happens happens.   I can't be hitting the shot thinking one thing and then trying to do another thing and obviously hit a terrible shot and got not the best of lies.   So it was difficult to get up and down. 
Then gave myself some chances on the last three, but unfortunately, didn't make them.

Q.   Sergio, would you say Rory made it look easy the way he shot 66 today? 
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, I guess.   Everybody saw it.   He played very, very well.   He drove the ball miles and very, very straight for the most part.   He gave himself a lot of birdie looks. 
I thought, at the end of the day, he played really well.

Q.   [Inaudible]. 
SERGIO GARCIA:   For sure.   I would say so.   We'll see.   It's still a month and a half away, but yeah, he definitely would be a really good partner. 




\


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT