BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 4, 2014
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Well played out there.  Just the one bogey.  Maybe at the hardest hole on the golf course.  3-under, one bogey.  Were you pleased with how you played today?  SERGIO GARCIA: Yes, it was definitely a good score.  I managed to score nicely.  It's one of those things that I probably deserved to make bogeys in three or four holes before that, and then I was a little bit unlucky and didn't get up-and-down. But I -- the course was playing very, very tough.  So, even though it's not very long, it was very, very brutal.  The pins -- a lot of the fairways were very difficult to hit.   Q.  Was it hard to judge distances out there today?  SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, every time you come to a place like Denver, which is so high up.  The altitude, you're not used to it, so, sometimes you got to realize that your hitting sand wedges 160 yards, and it's difficult to think like that. But, at the end of the day, I felt like we did fairly well.   Q.  Best part of your game right now?  SERGIO GARCIA: I don't know.  I think chipping was good.  Putting was pretty good.  My irons were fairly good.  Off the tee, I would like to have hit a few more fairways.   Q.  2-under 68 to get things going here for Sergio on Thursday.  How would you assess the day?  SERGIO GARCIA: It was a tough day.  The course -- even though it's not the longest we play, with altitude and everything, it played very, very firm, and you had to be really on to score well.  So, as you can see, the scores aren't as low as they could be.   Q.  You hit five fairways, but you found a way to get through this rough and manage it.  When you see this golf course for the first time in competition, would you think five fairways maybe wouldn't equate to under par.  How were you able to sort of find your way?  SERGIO GARCIA: Well, I hit a lot of good shots out of the rough.  Obviously, yeah, I didn't drive the ball great, but I didn't drive it as poorly as maybe it shows. There's a lot of holes that it just runs through the fairway and pretty much it's easy to do.  There's a lot of tough fairways out there, too.  But, 2-under it's okay.   Q.  The scores are not too low.  What are the positives you take away from today moving forward?  SERGIO GARCIA: I thought it was a very good score.  It was playing very difficult out there.  Even with the sand wedges, it was hard to get it close.  So, I would have taken 2-under par before the round started.   Q.  Good start to your week.  How would you assess the day out there?  SERGIO GARCIA: Tough day.  The course was playing extremely fast and firm.  It was very difficult with the altitude and everything to get the exact yardages.  As much as the ball was bouncing, it felt almost like a Major.   Q.  The altitude, is that the toughest part to get used to here?  SERGIO GARCIA: Well, it's one of them, one of the things. But, as fast and as firm as the course was playing, you had to -- there were a lot of holes that you couldn't fly it on the green.  Hitting, 7, 6, irons.  So, sometimes when you have to -- when the ball has to release that much, it's difficult to get it close.   Q.  Does it feel like a Major setup out there?  SERGIO GARCIA: The way it played, yeah.  It felt close to it.  Obviously, it's not a long course with the altitude and everything, but a lot of the shots had to be hit perfectly on to be able to hit it close to the pins.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT