BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 19, 2019
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TOM CARLISLE: Thank you for joining us here in the Fairway Club.  This is your 11th appearance here at the BMW International Open, fourth year in a row.  What do you enjoy about coming to Germany and playing in this event.
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, I always enjoy the BMW events.  I think they do an amazing job.  Every single event you see from BMW is like a theme and you can see how much effort they put into the buildup of the tournaments and then actually the tournament itself.  It is good fun.
Obviously I love Munich and Germany.  I've done well here and it's always good fun to come back to places that you enjoy and you've done well before.
TOM CARLISLE: And talking of doing well at this event before, you've had two runner-up finishes in I think five Top-10s.  How nice is it coming back to golf courses where you know you can score well if you have the right week.
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, it obviously is nice.  So I have done well at this golf course.  I think it's going to play a tiny bit different this year with the new greens.  A little bit firmer.  A few new pin positions here and there that we haven't seen in the past.  It's going to be interesting to see how everything comes across.
Obviously scoring will still be good if the weather keeps being like it's been the last couple of days.  So you know, we're excited to see how it develops.
TOM CARLISLE: You've got seven Top-10s worldwide this season, but yet you perhaps don't feel as things are going that well?
SERGIO GARCIA: I've obviously had some good moments throughout the year.  The last month or so, it's been a little bit more down than I wanted.  Obviously I had two nice rounds last week, and then struggled a little bit on the weekend.  But we'll see.  You know, keep working hard on it.  Hopefully I feel something that kind of helps me get a little bit more confidence out there and you know, hit the ball a little bit better and kind of get back to some good form.
So it's nice to be back in Europe, too, after pretty much five months in the US.  Nice to be back on European soil, and we'll try to build up on some good momentum.
Q. Has it been tougher, your job, lots of young players coming up?
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, I think there's no doubt that every year, it becomes a bit more challenging because there's youngsters like José Maria Olazábal on the Senior Tour (laughter).
No, but there's obviously young guys coming out every year that play great golf.  They hit it very far and you know, it's not easy to keep up with them.  But it's good.  It's good for the game.  The game needs to renew itself and get new faces, doing well, and, you know, then the older guys like me that have been more experienced guys like me, once in a while, we pop our head out and have some good weeks here and there.
I think it's a good mix.
Q. Obviously the next weeks are leading up to The Open Championship in Portrush.  You've had many great results at The Open Championship.  Is that something you focus still very much on in your career?
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, I love The Open Championship.  It's probably my favorite tournament, other than The Ryder Cup, and the ones we play obviously in Spain.  Yeah, it's a championship I always look up to as a European.  I was always a big fan of it.  Obviously Seve did amazing on it, so that also helped.
I've been fortunate to have some good chances at winning it.  Unfortunately I haven't done it yet but I want to keep giving myself some more opportunities, and hopefully this year or sometime soon, I will give myself another shot at an Open Championship that obviously would be the icing on the cake.
Q. Playing this week in Munich, where you feel at ease, and next week to Spain, where you should do even more, how important is this?  Is there something about feeling at home and feeling at ease with the golf course to perhaps find something?
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, I think it obviously helps, but you still have to go out there and you still have to hit the shots and you still have to be as confident as possible with your thoughts and everything.
So yeah, there's no doubt that, you know, playing here where I've done well and obviously Valderrama where it's my favorite golf course in the world, those things help, but you still have to hit the shots.  You know, there's nothing is given.  It's not like you get there and, well, here is a bag of 15 good shots for you just because you like the course, you know (laughing).
But you know, hopefully we'll have a solid week here, build up on that and then have another solid week at Valderrama, which I obviously love and kind of get ready for The Open.
Q. What are you working on now with your foundation?
SERGIO GARCIA: Well, we are always looking for little things to do with our foundation.  We just are obviously working on doing another event like we did three years ago in Bad Ragaz, probably in the U.S. next year.  We're working on that.  We're excited about it because Drew Brees, the quarterback for the New Orleans saints, it's my wife's cousin, Angela's cousin, so I think we're going to kind of do it together and we're very excited to hopefully create a great event.  So that's one of the projects we have.
Another thing that we just did, we spoke with sponsoring a nice project in Spain for -- it's not only for people with Down's Syndrome and autism and stuff like that.  It's a helmet to help them with any sort of concussions and hits against walls or floor or whatever.  It's a project that they are working on it, so we are sponsoring that.  So hopefully that will come through and we'll be able to help a lot of people there.  So we're excited about that.  But we are always looking forward to little things here and there that we can make a difference on as many lives as possible, and you know, that's what we're going to keep doing.
TOM CARLISLE: Thank you very much for your time, Sergio.  Good luck this week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT