WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 1, 2014
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Sergio, that was a work of art out there.   You've had some special moments in your career, but can you remember a better closing nine than the one you had out there today?   
SERGIO GARCIA:   No.   I mean, I've been fortunate to have some good rounds, but that was definitely‑‑ I think that was my lowest round in tournament play and also my lowest nine holes.   So it was very nice.  
   
 Q.   Complete through your bag, was everything going for you?   Or was there something special?   
SERGIO GARCIA:   I think I got a little bit lucky on the front nine.   I hit bad tee shots on 4, 8, and 9, and I got good breaks, and I was able to save par.   That kind of kept my round going.   
Started well the first three, four, five shots other than that tee shot, and then I don't know, I really started hitting the ball well on the back nine.   I hit two very close on 12 and 13.   
And then I kept giving myself chances, and I rolled it very nicely.   So I'm thrilled with it.  
   
 Q.   We hear it all the time.   It's tough to follow a low number with another low number, but you have that opportunity to change that myth tomorrow.   What are your expectations as you head into tomorrow with an early tee time now?   
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, unfortunately, we've got some weather coming, so we're going to be playing early.   
No, I'm just going to try to keep doing the same.   Keep playing the way I played, the way I've been playing, and hopefully try to shoot another good score.   
We'll see what the future holds for us.  
   
 Q.   Such an illustrious career, and this is the lowest round you ever shot competitive or competition.   Describe the feeling out there, too.   Do you believe it's the lowest you've ever shot?   
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, obviously, I was thinking about it on 18.   I was like I know I shot two or three 62s, but in tournament play, 61 would have been my lowest, and I was able to roll that putt in.   
To be able to do that on this golf course in this tournament and to tie the course record, it's‑‑ I feel very, very fortunate.  
   
 Q.   Jose Maria Olazabal may text you tonight because you're now up there with him, course record.   
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, it came to my mind, obviously.   Tiger's done it.   Jose's done it.   I don't know who else has done it here.   
But I'm thrilled to be a part of that group, and hopefully I'll be able to play well again tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Can you describe the focus level?   You make the tournament at 3 under, and then everything starts clicking, 11 consecutive one‑putts.   Could you hear everything?   Were you totally focused, blocking everything out?   
SERGIO GARCIA:   No, I'm not going to come here and say I was in a bubble and all that stuff.   I was enjoying it.   Obviously, I felt very calm throughout the day, and I just had a couple of bad tee shots on the front nine.   
But I was able to recover nicely.   I got a couple of good breaks, and then back nine everything just started happening.   I rolled a great putt on 10, had a good birdie chance on 11, and I started hitting it quite close, and then I ended up making a couple of really nice putts on 17 and 18.  
   
 Q.   They were dead center, 17 and 18.   Those were great putts.   
SERGIO GARCIA:   Thank you.   Yeah, they were.   It was nice to see it happen like that.   Just very, very happy to shoot a round like that.  
   
 Q.   You're getting congratulations from Rory.   He just walked by.   Talk about the quick turnaround.   You've got to get back out early tomorrow morning.   Maybe that's a good thing.   Maybe you won't lose this hot putter.   
SERGIO GARCIA:   I don't know.   We'll see tomorrow.   I'm excited about it.   Obviously, I've been playing nicely throughout the whole year.   So hopefully I can do more of the same on the weekend.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT