TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 22, 2014
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Sergio, final round of 67.   You just come up one short on the crazy back 9.
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah.   I thought it was a good week.   Obviously today I felt like I played quite well.   You know, the only thing I can really regret a little bit is my second shot on 9.   I would have liked to be a little more aggressive on that.   That was a soft bogey there.   And then on 10 and 18 I thought that was a wonderful break.
But other than that, I felt like I fought hard.   I gave myself some chances.   Unfortunately a couple miss‑reads on the back 9.   But other than that, you know, it was a good week.

Q.   Knowing where you were going into 17, how comfortable did you feel?
SERGIO GARCIA:   17 is not the most comfortable hole you have, and knowing that I was one back at that time, I knew I needed to‑‑ I knew I needed to birdie and hit a good tee shot, hit a very nice second shot.   And then I heard a cheer on 18 and I kind of guessed that it was Kevin making birdie.   So I made a nice putt there. 
I probably did the most difficult thing on 18, which was the drive, and I hit a wonderful drive down the middle, and you know, unfortunately, you know what I did, I was trying to pick it up.   I didn't want it to roll, and I pulled it a little bit, and hit a good putt, but unfortunately miss‑read it a little bit.

Q.   Coming up short, is it a different feeling when you shoot a 67 and guys shoot 28 on the back 9 and beat you by one?
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah.   I mean obviously he played amazing on the back 9, and it was birdie, birdie.   We were also trying, but I wasn't able to do it. 
But I think that, you know, at the end of the day he played really, really well.   I feel like I played quite nicely and it just wasn't my time.

Q.   What can you take away from this going into next week?
SERGIO GARCIA:   I think it was a great week, very solid week.   Tied for second.   There's not many bad things that come out of that. 

Q.   Congratulations.   That was great stuff.
SERGIO GARCIA:   Thanks.

Q.   Sergio, coming up a shot short at the end, but wow, did you play some great golf and you challenged for this victory today.
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah.   I felt like I did.   You know, I felt like I hit some really good shots. 
Obviously 9 I would love to do again.   That second shot I needed to be a little more aggressive.   I was afraid of hitting it too hard with a wedge and hitting it over the green and leaving myself in not a good spot.   And then I leave it like on 10, I feel like I did with the tee shot, and unfortunately caught the trunk of the tree. 
But other than that, you know, I fought hard.   I felt like I gave myself a good amount of birdie chances on the back 9.   You know, a couple miss‑reads here and there, but you know, obviously Kevin played amazing.

Q.   How about that electric moment at 17?   That was something with the crowd around 17, and then you just got to within one shot of the lead.
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah.   Obviously I knew that I needed to finish well.   I needed to finish birdie, birdie.   I was thinking birdie, birdie for a win.   Maybe birdie, par for a playoff, but obviously Kevin made birdie on the last, and then that, you know, left me with birdie, birdie finish to try to get into the playoff. 
You know, made a great birdie on 17.   Unfortunately, you know, drove it into a divot on 18 and I wasn't able to make birdie after a good tee shot.

Q.   How much fun this week in Cromwell?
SERGIO GARCIA:   No, it was great.   It was great.   Yeah, enjoyed it.   A little‑‑ a few what happened to Spain here and there, but other than that, it was very good.

Q.   Congratulations, Sergio.
SERGIO GARCIA:   Thank you.

Q.   You got yourself in the hunt today.   You were right there.   What was the big difference today?
SERGIO GARCIA:   From when? 

Q.   You know, down the stretch.
SERGIO GARCIA:   No, you know, I felt like I‑‑ I felt like I played well, you know, pretty much the whole day.   Hit a lot of good shots.   I started very well, obviously, with a couple birdies early on. 
Then made a nice par save on 4, then, you know, had some good chances, made a good birdie on 7.   And then 9 was probably my weakest hole today.   I hit a great tee shot, and then I‑‑ you know, I just got a little bit afraid of shooting the green with a wedge and didn't‑‑ you know, didn't know exactly how firm it was, and I didn't want to fly it too close to the pin and I kind of came out of it a little bit and made bogey.
You know, but that one I could deal with.   The problem was 10.   You know, 10, I felt like I hit a good tee shot, and unfortunately I got kind of stymied behind the tree and made bogey there.   But I came back nicely, made a nice birdie on 11, gave myself some very good chances coming in.   Made a great birdie on 17, and unfortunately, 18, good drive.   Unfortunately in a divot, and you know, pulled it a little bit with my second shot and wasn't able to make it.

Q.   You scoreboard watch at all?
SERGIO GARCIA:   Watched it a little bit.   Maybe once on the front nine, and then obviously on 15 and 17.   So I knew that I needed to make birdie on the last.   Unfortunately I wasn't able to.

Q.   How about your week in terms of what you thought of it?
SERGIO GARCIA:   No, I thought it was a great week.   There's no doubt that obviously Kevin played amazing on the back 9 today, and you know, when somebody does something like that, they deserve to win.   There's no doubt about it. 
We didn't give it to him or anything.   I think that both KJ, Bads and myself, we played hard.   We played good, and unfortunately we just came a little short.

Q.   Crowds here good?
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, yeah.   They were good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT