THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2014
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  How close do you think (inaudible)?  SERGIO GARCIA: I mean, two shots was the closest, I think.  But it is difficult.  It's difficult when you're in a situation where you know you can't make a mistake.  It just puts that little extra pressure.  So many good things happened throughout this week.  And even today I got a couple of really good breaks. It was close.  It was close.  At least I'm proud of the way I played.  I'm proud of -- like I said yesterday, I wanted to at least make him feel a little bit and see how he would respond.  And he obviously responded well.  Because I got within two, but he kept -- every time I got closer, he kept making one birdie and not letting me get any closer than that. Overall I thought it was a great week, and just deserved.   Q.  Do you feel like you made him win it?  SERGIO GARCIA: I think both Rickie and I, I think we tried to push him as hard as we could.  Like I said before, obviously it's not easy when you know that you can't make any mistakes.  There's so many things that have to go right for you to be able to get as close.  I needed to shoot at least 8- or 9-under to -- he probably hits driver on the last, and if he hits a good drive, he makes birdie. I think that we gave it a good effort and there was someone a little bit better.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  SERGIO GARCIA: 15?  Well, I mean, I hit a great putt on 11 after eagling 10.  That would have been nice to see it go in because I knew there were some tough holes coming in.  11 wasn't playing that easy.  12, 13, 14.  Obviously 15 was a mistake.  But like I said before, when you know that you can't make mistakes, it's hard. And I was trying as hard as I could.  I just tried to get too cute.  I could see it was a little bit of a downslope.  And I thought, if I just get it a couple yards over the bunker, it's going to just hit the downslope and maybe I can hole it.  And I just got too cute and unfortunately made bogey. But I thought I played nice three last holes to finish with.  Two really good shots on 16.  Obviously when the greens are slower, it is tougher to hit the ball harder and keep it on line because you have to make so much effort just with the left arm. Obviously I didn't hit the best putt on 17.  It would have been nice to see that second shot get to the top and have a better chance. I'm proud.  I'm happy.  I love the 18.  That's a feeling that nobody can take away from me.  And that's one of the reasons why I love this championship.   Q.  What happened with the spectator on 15 or 16?  SERGIO GARCIA: There was something with a spectator?  No, that was on the 16th.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  SERGIO GARCIA: No, throughout the whole day.  Sunday in a tournament with the chance of winning, and in this case in a major championship at The Open, it's always exciting.  I was excited since I woke up this morning.  There's no better feeling.  That's why we love doing this.  That's what we practice for.  It was a great experience.   Q.  How different does this feel than some of your other close calls at a major?  This would be a positive?  SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, for sure, yeah.  Everybody looks at you as second and they want to make it a negative.  Not at all.  Like I said before, I felt like I played well.  I felt like I did almost everything I could.  And there was a better player.  It's as simple as that.  There's no -- you don't have to look at other things.  It's just that simple.   Q.  Can you use this as a springboard for majors coming up?  SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, for sure.  All these weeks help in majors and in tournaments, Hartford and Germany a couple of weeks ago and THE PLAYERS and everything.  Even if you don't win, they still help. Obviously there's some negative things, and obviously my bogey on 15 is not nice.  But I try to look at the positives.  And there's always a lot more positives than negatives.  And that to me -- that's where I want to take it.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, I would say so, yeah.  I thought -- it looks like I'm finally growing up.  Yeah, that was nice.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT