THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2014
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  SERGIO GARCIA: Not without help.  I mean, to go out there and shoot maybe -- if he shoots 3-under, I have to shoot 10.  So it is an Open Championship; it's not that easy to -- nobody has done it before, so it's not that easy to do IT. But I think that the only thing I can do is go out there and try to play as well as possible.  Obviously a little bit better on the last couple of holes, and see where that gets me.  It's as simple as that.  If Rory plays the way he's been playing -- you know, it's difficult to see anybody catching him when he's playing like that.  But the only thing I can do is play well, try to put a little pressure on him and see how he reacts to that.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, no, of course.  It's been a very solid season so far.  Out there again in contention in a major.  Obviously if Rory wasn't 16-under, it would be really, really tight.  But I feel quite good with the way I've been playing, and with the way I've kind of been handling myself throughout the week.  And hopefully I'll be able to do it again for another day and see where I finish.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  SERGIO GARCIA: No, it's not as simple as that, no, because it's not like that.  It's not like go out there and try to shoot 64, and if you shoot 82, it doesn't matter.  It's not like that, no.  You still want to do well.  Even if you don't win, you still want to do well.  You still want to finish as high as possible.  That's what we all do and that's what we all love doing. So obviously maybe it's not the pressure of being in the lead, but if I had the chance, I would rather be in Rory's situation than mine.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  SERGIO GARCIA: Obviously I heard the roar on 16.  I imagined it was an eagle, I didn't know.  Obviously he bogeyed 17, like both Rickie and I did.  And then he must have hit a great shot on 18 because I saw the putt was quite close.  Something like that, the only thing you can do is say "well done."   Q.  What goes through your mind when a guy like Rory (inaudible)?  You're playing extremely well, but is it frustrating?  SERGIO GARCIA: No, I've always said at the end of the day we're all doing our best.  And if somebody is better than you, you can't ask yourself for anything else.  The only thing I would have loved to is hit a couple of better shots coming in on 17 and 18.  That was what disappointed me a little bit more than seeing Rory making eagles and birdies.  You can't control that.  And if you're disappointed at somebody making birdies and eagles, then you're not a good sportsman. Like what happened to me at the Hartford.  When Kevin Streelman made seven birdies in a row, what you do is go there and say, "well done."  He deserves to win when he does that.   Q.  Will the way how Rory plays the first few holes have an effect on how everybody plays?  SERGIO GARCIA: I don't know.  Obviously if he plays the par 5s well, like he did today it's going to be tough.  Because even though he started a little bit slow today, then he really got going on the back nine, and started making birdies and a couple of eagles.  And it looked like he might have one- or two-shot lead, and now all of a sudden he's got a six-shot lead. Obviously Rickie and I helped a little bit on that.  Rickie more than me.  But we both did.  And he more than anything helped by the way he finished.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  SERGIO GARCIA: I think when Rory plays well -- when I'm playing well, I feel like every course suits me.  And when he's playing well, every course suits him because he hits it quite straight.  He hits it very long.  He putts well.  He chips pretty well.  So there's not really a lot of weaknesses on the game. At the end of the day if he's playing well, every course would suit him.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  SERGIO GARCIA: Well, I think he's definitely right up there.  I mean, I don't think Rory has been as consistent as maybe Tiger was for so many years, but when he's at his best -- but I think there's so many really good players that when they're at their best, they are out there.  And they don't have anything to envy to Tiger.  And I include myself in that.  When I'm feeling good, when I'm feeling comfortable, I feel like I can hit any shot I want to.  So it's not that big of a difference.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  SERGIO GARCIA: No, no, not at all.  I think that it's -- like I said before, if somebody plays that well, he deserves it.  There's nothing you can do.  You can't say, oh, you know.  No, it's fine.  He's playing that well.  He deserves it and if he plays that well tomorrow, he'll be a more deserved champion. The only thing I can do is keep at it and keep putting myself in these situations, and hope one day that it will be my turn.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT