U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 13, 2019
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SERGIO GARCIA: It was nice to shoot under par today.  And I do have to say that the course is not going to play any easier than this.  It's impossible.  So today was the day to shoot a decent score.
So it would have been nice to not miss the little putt on the last, but that's what it is.
Q. Both Graeme and Rory used the word benign to describe the conditions today.  Would you agree with that?
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah.
Q. (Indiscernible) little disappointed (indiscernible)?
SERGIO GARCIA: Well, I mean, yeah, of course, I would have loved to shoot at least five or six shots better.  But the way I'm playing, that's -- I think what I shot today, that's about as low as I can go pretty much.
So, yeah like I said earlier, the course is not going to play any easier than it played today.  The fairways are still not too firm.  The greens were fairly receptive.  They got a little bit firmer as the round went on, but not U.S. Open style.  And there wasn't a lot of wind.
So obviously if you played -- if you played well today, you could shoot -- yeah, you could shoot a 5-, 6-, 4-, 5-, 6-, 7-under maybe.  But you still have to play well.
Q. What were your feelings entering the week (indiscernible)?
SERGIO GARCIA: Horrible.
Q. Can you expand on that?
SERGIO GARCIA: I mean, I can say it louder, but not clearer.
Q. Was it with your game or --
SERGIO GARCIA: Just with everything, yeah.  Yeah.  This game doesn't feel good at the moment.  But it's as simple as that.  We go through some of those stretches, and unfortunately, I'm picking the wrong part of the year to go through one of those.
But the only thing I can do is keep fighting and try to shoot the lowest I can shoot.  And whatever that is, we will see.  But obviously I'm happy with my round today.  I'm not going to lie.  Obviously a little disappointed with my putt on the last.  But, you know, if you would have told me 2-under before I started, you know, I would have taken it before you finished the phrase.
Q. If you're feeling (indiscernible) -- pardon my Spanish -- does that help to kind of lower your expectations?
SERGIO GARCIA: Well, I mean, we're still competitors.  We still want to do well.  Don't get me wrong.  It doesn't mean that -- it doesn't mean that I'm not going to try when I'm out there.  And so maybe it does.
Yeah.  I mean, I don't think I have much of a chance of winning this week the way I'm feeling.  But, you know, the planets have aligned before.  If they do again, then -- and it helps me, then it's a good thing.
Q. So you're saying feeling, are you talking about here or the just the way (indiscernible)?
SERGIO GARCIA: Just the way my game is feeling overall.  It just doesn't feel smooth.  It doesn't -- you know, it's not like I know exactly if I miss the shot I know exactly where I'm going to miss it or anything like that.
I'm obviously not asking to hit every shot perfect because that doesn't happen, but, you know, when you're not sure which way you're going to miss, it's a little bit more challenging.
Q. When was the last time you thought you could hit every shot perfect?
SERGIO GARCIA: I've been fortunate to have some of those feelings.  It doesn't mean that I did.  But I have felt like that in the past.  And hopefully we'll keep working to see if we can get back to something similar today.
Q. How important is it for you to play the weekend?
SERGIO GARCIA: We'll see.  It would be nice, but I'm just going to one day at a time at the moment.
Q. What surprised you most about your game today?  What clicked?  What worked?
SERGIO GARCIA: I don't know.  It was a mix.  I hit some obviously -- don't get me wrong, I did hit some really nice shots.  I also hit some shots that, I don't know, looked like a 25 handicapper.  So it was -- the thing is, when you're feeling better, when you're feeling well, like your misses are a lot more under control.  And it feels like when I'm missing at the moment, I'm not very much under control.
So the good thing what I did the best is I fought hard.  It's as simple as that.  I never gave up.  And tried to do some things right and capitalize on that, and I was able to do that for the most part.
Q. What's the best shot you hit today?
SERGIO GARCIA: The shot on the last wast pretty nice out of the bunker.  Unfortunately I screwed it up with the putter.  But probably my second -- my drive on 18 and my second shot on 18, those were probably two of the shots that felt the best.
Q. What did you hit for your second?
SERGIO GARCIA: 6-iron.  Yeah.  Hit a really nice drive and hit 6-iron in.  So yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT