U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2014
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. 72 today, how did you feel?SERGIO GARCIA: Obviously, the course was playing tough, it was playing much tougher today.  Drying up a little bit and a little bit windier, the long holes were playing into the wind, all of them, pretty much.  So they were very, very challenging. Hitting driver, 3-iron on 2, on 4, driver, 4-iron on 16.  So holes like that, that obviously are asking a lot with these greens. But it's a bit of a shame, because I think that when I got to 1-under, if I would have been able to shoot 1-under, even par, 2-under, it would have been a really, really good round.  And unfortunately, I let it get away, with a couple bad shots and a couple missed putts.  2-over, it's not a bad round, the way the course was playing, but it feels quite crap.
Q. Given what you said about the course is it playing harder than on Thursday and Friday?SERGIO GARCIA: Definitely.  The wind is totally different.  It makes you rethink everything, because the clubs you're hitting are changing and it's definitely a bit more challenging today.
Q. Does that mean that if Martin isn't going to win this thing, he's going to have to come back to the field, you can't see anyone getting near his score?SERGIO GARCIA: I don't know.  If it stays like it was this morning, with a little bit of breeze like it was, I don't see anybody shooting better than 67. So if Martin manages to shoot even par, which is a really good round, he's, I think he's still going to have at least a six or seven shot lead.
Q. Just on you, how is your knee?  You were limping a bit coming in.SERGIO GARCIA: Felt it a couple times on the fourth hole going down the hill.  After that, it was pretty good. Unfortunately, the taping came off because of the sweat on the 12th hole and, funny enough, I started swinging a little bit worse there. So I'm not saying it was because of that, because it didn't bother me, but obviously it didn't feel maybe as stable as with the tape. But it's just one of those things, I guess.
Q. Just finally, within a month's time, The Open Championship, the Scottish Open, the Ryder Cup, it's a massive few months, how are you feeling about your game going into this big sort of end of the summer?SERGIO GARCIA: I don't know, it's been a little bit kind of up-and-down this week.  I drove the ball very well.  That I'm very proud of. But other than that, my irons have been a little bit up-and-down.  I've hit some really, really good iron shots, I hit some crappy ones. Putting has been okay.  Even though I missed a couple putts here and there. Chipping has been also so-so.  So there's still a lot of things I need to get better at.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT