THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 11, 2014
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk to us about coming down the stretch and that back nine.
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, I don't know, it's funny, it's a different feeling from last year, no doubt about it.   I wish I would have hit a couple of shots a little bit better on the back nine, those couple of bogeys kind of put me behind the eight ball a little bit.
I still fought as hard as I could, I felt like I played really, really good on the front nine.   I could have ‑‑ if a couple of putts drop on the front nine, I could have been probably at least 4‑under and that would have put me in a really good situation.
But at the end of the day I think that it was a good week, I gave my best effort, and unfortunately it's going to be a little bit short.

Q.   What do you take away from this week, your finish here?
SERGIO GARCIA:   No, it's obviously a positive week and it's another good performance on a tough golf course, so that will always, that always means a lot.   I think that that's what I have to look at and keep going forward from her and keep playing well.

Q.   How much was the rain a factor for you?   The delay itself.
SERGIO GARCIA:   No, I think that it was fine for me.   I think actually it just came off a bogey on 14, so it probably helped me a little bit to kind of relax a little bit and cool down and not having to be on the course thinking about the bogey you just made where you just pretty much kind of almost gave the tournament away or your chances to win it.   So for me it wasn't, I don't think it hurt me.

Q.   You found success at such a young age in your career, to a guy like Jordan Spieth, what advice would you give him?
SERGIO GARCIA:   No, I think obviously he's going to be a little bit disappointed with today, but he has to also be positive and he has to be happy about all the things he's doing.
The game of golf is, unfortunately, it's a game of losers, and we lose a lot more tournaments than we win, and it's going to happen to him, it's going to happen to me, it's going to happen to everybody.   It even happens to Tiger, and he's the guy that wins the most.
So it's just the nature of the sport and I guess that's one of the reasons why we love it.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT