ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 18, 2020
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Frustrated with the three-putt on the last for a par, no professional likes to do that, but overall, a 69. How do you feel about your day's work?  
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, I thought the beginning was tough. I wasn't quite swinging as well as the first two days, but I kind of figured out a little bit what was going on, what was going on with my swing and I started hitting some really good shots from the seventh hole onwards. Obviously some really good shots into the par 5s. I started getting a little bit more confident, and you know, made a couple -- made a nice eagle and a couple of birdies and stuff.   
Yeah, I felt like I hit a good second putt. I thought it was going to break and went dead straight. Overall, it was the kind of day that the way I was feeling, it could have kind of gotten away from me a little bit, but I fought hard and I managed to shoot a decent round.   
I'm going to need probably quite a low one tomorrow with all the guys that are in front, but it's not the worst place to be.   
 Q.  You have a new caddie, very experienced, how much do you enjoy working with him?  
SERGIO GARCIA: It's been great. We've been friends for a long, long time, and actually we've been close and working together for a couple of times through the my career and his career. It's good to have him around. Obviously he's good help and we're enjoying it out there.   
 Q.  Golf course, slightly different wind than we are used to?  
SERGIO GARCIA: Totally different wind. A lot of the lines were completely new. Holes like 8,9, you had to go, and 17, for example, even 16, you have to go so much farther away from the lines that we were hitting the first two days. So that was a little bit tricky. The course played pretty well. I think that, you know, it was -- if you managed to figure out some of those lines and stuff, you could put a good score, and it's a shame that couldn't do a little bitter, but we're still there.   
 Q.  69 today, felt like you were robbed of that second eagle, and luck never came back to you. Is that how you feel?  
SERGIO GARCIA: No, not really. I wouldn't say that. I think that I obviously would have loved to finish a little bit better. Obviously the three-putt on the last didn't help. But I felt like early on, you know, my swing wasn't clicking and I had to calm down a little bit and kind of rethink a little bit what I was doing and figure it out a little bit of what got me back, and then I started hitting the ball a bit better. Obviously I was a little more careful, but I still managed to hit some really, really good shots here and there, and you know, at the end of the day, it could have been a day that got away from me and I managed to save it a little bit I guess.   
 Q.  We know you feel very comfortable here, especially when the wind is blowing a little bit, you feel like it's to your advantage. How much tomorrow are you going to be thinking about how the course is playing for you and compared to how many shots you need to make up on the field to hopefully lift that trophy?  
SERGIO GARCIA: Well, the weather is going to be whatever it's going to be, so we can't control that, but obviously depending on how the course is playing, but even if it's windy, I'm still going to need a good round. I'm still going to need I would say probably at least 66 or better with the three or four guys that are in front. You've got to think that at least one of them is going to shoot 3- or 4-under, so that's going to make it challenging.   
But you know, we're in a good spot to start the year. Obviously it's exciting to be there, and hopefully I'll be swinging at a good calibre tomorrow and I'll be able to do something good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT