THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 11, 2014
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  SERGIO GARCIA:   You know, I mean, I'm proud of the way I played all week.   Two loose swings on the back nine on 11 and 14.   Other than that, I felt like I played good.   I gave myself a lot of chances.   Front nine I played really, really nicely, hit some really good putts.   Unfortunately I didn't manage to roll many in, and then on the back, just a couple chances here and there would have been nice.   But I think still a good week, and glad to come here and play well again.  
   
 Q.   You played the par‑5s so well all week, and then you didn't take advantage of them on the last nine holes.   
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, well, I mean, I didn't hit a good tee shot on 11, went just in the pine straw, and I tried to be aggressive.   No, I wasn't going for the green, but I was trying to hit it maybe somewhere just short left or something like that with a 5‑wood.   My left foot slipped a little bit and mis‑hit because of that and it curved to the right and went in the water.   But I still had a good chance of making par and kind of keeping the momentum going.   Unfortunately we misread that putt a little bit, and then I made a good birdie on the next, hit a great shot on 13, and then I was kind of trying to force things and hit a poor shot on 14.  
   
 Q.   A solid Sunday effort here at THE PLAYERS Championship, falling just short, but how proud are you of the effort you put forth today?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   I am proud.   I am proud of the way I played the whole week.   I felt like I stayed very patient all week.   Just a shame, just a couple of shots on the back nine.   That's what it came down to, and that's what it usually comes down to.   Unfortunately a little slip on the pine straw on 11, mis‑hit it in the water, and then a bad shot on 14.   You know, we tried as hard as we could, but unfortunately we weren't good enough.  
   
 Q.   How did the delay affect you at all, a chance to regroup and sort of assess everything?   
SERGIO GARCIA:   No.   For me I guess it probably was a good thing because I just came off a bogey on 14.   That hurt quite a lot after a good tee shot, which is the difficult part of that hole, to hit a good tee shot.   It probably helped me to kind of calm down and kind of take a couple deep breaths, and then I came back and I hit some decent shots coming in.   18 obviously was the best.   But just a tiny bit short.  
   
 Q.   How aware were you of what Martin was doing behind you?   You had a chance going to 16 green.   
SERGIO GARCIA:   Well, I didn't know.   I didn't know on 16.   I saw he made double when we were on the 17th green already, so I‑‑ but it doesn't change anything.   I was trying to birdie 16, I was trying to hopefully birdie 17 and 18, and unfortunately I was only able to birdie one of those.   
   
 Q.   What are the positives you take out of this week?   
SERGIO GARCIA:   A lot of positives.   I think it was a tough week.   It played quite difficult with the wind and the green conditions and everything.   You know, it's still another good week.   We keep putting ourselves in a situation to win, just came up a little bit short, but we've got to keep trying.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT