THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 9, 2014
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about your round a little bit?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, it was hard today.   Obviously the course changed a little bit.   It was a little bit firmer, a lot more wind than yesterday.   It got difficult.   There were a lot of very, very tough holes out there.   Even the easy ones like 12, for example, I thought I hit a good tee shot and it bounced a little left and it went in the rough, and I had no shot.   I had to hit a really good shot to leave it where I left it, and I left myself a 60‑footer or something like that.   
It definitely was playing a little bit more like we're used to seeing it, not all the way to the extent, but the course definitely‑‑ we could see the teeth a little bit of the course today.  
   
 Q.   Were you surprised that the lead is‑‑ there's guys up at 12‑ and 11‑under or does that not surprise you?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   No.   I mean, I think this morning was a bit calmer, probably a little bit softer, so obviously Martin is playing well and he shot a good round this morning.   The round from Jordan this afternoon is obviously really, really good.   It wasn't easy.   I didn't see a lot of 66s out there.   You know, I felt like I played quite decent, and I managed to shoot 71.   It was the kind of day that it was difficult to keep the bogeys off the card because there were just so many challenging shots, and the wind was moving a little bit, so it was difficult to kind of gauge everything right.   
   
 Q.   A couple times in the middle of both nines you made a couple bogeys and it could have slipped away from you.   Do you have to talk to yourself to hang in there, stay with it?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, that's what you try.   Obviously you know that it's not playing easy, and unfortunately some of those bogeys are going to come.   If you hit a couple bad shots, it happens.   
At the end of the day, I was trying to make sure when I got it to 6 after 10, I thought, okay, let's see if I can get maybe one or two, it would be great, if I manage to finish even par from here onwards, still be good.   I managed to have a great finish to finish at that, so I'm‑‑ I can't be disappointed with that.   
   
 Q.   17 must have felt good.   
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, it was‑‑ I mean, what happened to Dustin there with the sand wedge is‑‑ I was going to hit sand wedge, too, because it was downwind and I could see that I could get it there with a sand wedge and pitching wedge was always going to bring the back into play.   But when I saw his shot, it looked really, really good, it just rolled so much for‑‑ I don't know what reason.   I thought, well, just try to hit a hard sand wedge with a little bit of a cut and try to get it on top, and then the putt was obviously a bonus.   You don't expect to make a lot of those.   It was nice to be able to do it there.   
   
 Q.   Your playing competitor, you played alongside him for two days, Phil has been struggling a little bit.   We asked Dustin what he saw in his game and maybe some reason he's been struggling.   What did you see playing alongside him?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   You know, to tell you the truth, it doesn't look like he's that far away.   Obviously he struggled to make putts, which are always going to make your rounds tougher.   When you struggle to make putts, even when you're hitting good putts, it puts so much pressure on your whole game, and you feel like you need to hit it closer.   It's difficult to hit it close into some of these holes.   But I don't think he was that far off.   Obviously he hit a couple wayward tee shots here and there, but for the most part he was pretty good, hit some good iron shots and hit some good putts.   Unfortunately he just‑‑ if he makes maybe two or three more, we're talking about him being 3‑ or 4‑under and he's right there.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT