ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 17, 2020
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  69, four birdies and one bogey. Give us your summation of that.  
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, I think it was pretty solid. Hit a couple loose shots here and there early on, but dealt with it the best I could. Then started hitting some really nice shots. Made a couple nice putts, and unfortunately just misread the putt on the last and unfortunately it went a little right.   
Overall it was good. A couple shots I missed, I made two good up-and-downs. It was definitely tougher than yesterday morning.   
 Q.  We spoke yesterday about you're not under a manufacturer, so you can use whatever you would like. How do you choose? What criteria do you have? Is it feel, the way it looks, what?  
SERGIO GARCIA: For me, obviously feel is important but it's got to start looking good. If it doesn't look good, I'm not going to be able to play it, even if it's the best club in the world. Obviously it has to look good and then when I try it, and when I test it, it has to feel good and see the good numbers with it. It's as simple as that.   
 Q.  Talking to Molinari about it, he said the choice would be baffling for him and he wouldn't be able to do it. He needs to be with a manufacturer. Was it difficult for you? Everybody must have been sending you kit?  
SERGIO GARCIA: No, I had an idea of what I wanted to try. Tried TaylorMade and PING. I thought some of the other manufacturers didn't quite suit my eye, what I've seen out there. I had an idea of trying those, and I did and I got a little mixed bag of those two, actually.   
 Q.  Do they need anything or are they how you want them?  
SERGIO GARCIA: They are pretty good. I'm sure as the year goes on, I might do a little tweak here or there, but not too much. I'm pretty happy with the way things are.   
 Q.  How did today go for you?  
SERGIO GARCIA: It was good. The day was obviously a little tougher. Some of the pins were a little tougher to get to and the greens were a little bit crustier throughout the afternoon. I felt like I played fairly well. A couple nervous shots early on, but other than that, felt quite good. Hit a good amount of good shots. I hit some good putts and a couple really nice up-and-downs and a couple nice birdies here and there. Overall, it was a solid day.   
 Q.  You said the greens were evolving and looked like the weather was, as well. How much did that factor today?  
SERGIO GARCIA: Oh, it definitely did. It definitely did. The greens were getting firmer, a little bit quicker. Some of the putts were a little bit trickier. So just had to pay attention to it and with the wind blowing a little bit, obviously made everything a little bit tougher.   
 Q.  You've had three victories where you've been one shot back after 36 holes. Is this quite a comfortable place for you to be in right now?  
SERGIO GARCIA: Yes, without a doubt. Obviously you want to be around the lead, if you can't be leading. We'll see at the end of the week. Obviously you would like to be four or five clear after 36 and kind of keep adding on that, but I think that I played nicely. Today was an easy day to shoot even or 1-over, the way the course was playing, and then kind of fall quite a bit behind and I managed not to do that. I think I'm happy with that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT