WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 20, 2014
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Sergio, less golf here today, but obviously opponents get more difficult as the week goes on.   How pleased are you to move on after defeating Bill?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, very pleased.   Good friend of mine.   He played well.   I thought he played really, really well early on.   
Then I was able to go on a very nice run from the 8th hole onwards, put on a little bit of pressure, and very pleased with just playing 17 today.   
   
 Q.   What is the toughest part?   When you play somebody that you respect, as you just said, a good friend?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   I think it's fine.   I think that the nicest thing is you that obviously you are trying to beat him as hard as any other day, but you can be a little more friendly, maybe give a couple more putts here and there.   You know, seems like the atmosphere is nicer, you know, it's like we're both hoping for each other to play well, but hoping for ourselves to play a little bit better than our friend.  
   
 Q.   Can you explain how you played 8?   Did you purposely go down No. 2 fairway?   
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, I did it last year already, and it feels like it's easier.   It plays a little bit shorter because you don't have to do the dogleg.   If you manage to hit that second fairway, you kind of hit it into the green instead off sideways.   So for a back right pin, it's probably a little bit tougher, but to hole the green is a little bit easier.   
I did it last year, I think, on the first or second round.   And I thought about it yesterday.   I don't know why I didn't do it.   Today was perfect because it was a little bit downwind.   I hit there and only had a 7‑iron in.   
   
 Q.   So driver, 7‑iron to ten feet.   How far over on No. 2 fairway are you from the 8th fairway?   Forty yards?   
SERGIO GARCIA:   Probably more.  
   
 Q.   Fifty?   
SERGIO GARCIA:   I would say probably 60 or 70 yards right.  
   
 Q.   For you, you were down two at that time, was that the first of a turning point?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   It was important.   Yeah, it was definitely important to win that hole mainly because I just came off missing a two and a half footer on 6 to win the hole and quitting on my second shot on 7 after hitting a great drive and losing the hole there.   So it was important to win that and not give him the chance of making the birdie putt and halve the hole, and kind of get a little bit more momentum on my side.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT