CIMB CLASSIC
October 23, 2013
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JOEL SCHUCHMANN:   We'd like to welcome Sergio Garcia to the interview room here at the CIMB Classic, playing in your first event for the year.   Maybe just some opening comments about the golf course and looking forward to the new season. 
SERGIO GARCIA:   Sure.   Yeah, first time playing this event, first time playing this golf course.   We do have a tournament here on the European Tour, but I've never had the pleasure of playing it.   But yeah, the course looks great.   It's in very, very good shape.   The greens, even though it rained quite a bit yesterday, they're still fairly firm today.   The golf course is very nice, the kind of golf course that you can score if you play well, but off the tee it's quite tight, so you're going to have to really hit the ball well to score well.   We'll see how it goes. 

Q.   You're the defending champion of Iskandar.   Will you be back next year, and how does the old course compare to the one they're currently playing? 
SERGIO GARCIA:   Well, I mean, I think this one is new and the other one has been developing.   I think that they've got similar looks, but it feels like this one is a little bit more up‑and‑down.   They're both nice courses to play.   It would be nice to see how they play and perform.   It's unfortunate we didn't get a lot of chances to do it with the storms in the afternoon, but they're both nice courses. 

Q.   Will you be back to defend?
SERGIO GARCIA:   Hopefully.   I don't know exactly when the dates are.   I haven't looked at it.   But I always like to defend my titles, and hopefully I'll be able to do it if the schedule permits. 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:   On the PGA TOUR side of things, you just finished the 2013 season, but this week you're kind of starting your 2013‑'14 season.   What kind of adjustments do you have to deal with in terms of starting a new season so early and then maybe talk about some goals you have for this coming here, obviously a Ryder Cup year. 
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, that's obviously one of the goals this year, making the Ryder Cup team again.   It would be great to defend our Cup.   I don't think there's really many changes you do.   We've had this kind of start at the end of the year on the European Tour before, before we had the Race to Dubai, so we're kind of used to it.   It doesn't really change that much.   You still have to play, play well like you've done throughout the year, and I was fortunate enough to get a little bit of a rest coming into here, coming into this week, so hopefully I'm nice and fresh out there.

Q.   Brief off‑season, but anything you worked on, or did you just take some time off and put the clubs away and kind of go from there?
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, pretty much put the clubs away was my biggest practice I would say.   I played a lot in the summer.   But yeah, just kind of practiced a little bit, nothing extremely hard, just trying to get ready for the next couple weeks, and hopefully we can get in good rhythm and have two weeks to kind of get caught up. 

Q.   With the schedule as it is now, when do you get a chance to have a holiday?   Will you give us an idea how many weeks a year you are playing and working and when do you get a chance to take some time off? 
SERGIO GARCIA:   Well, in my particular case, playing both Tours, you don't really‑‑ you have three, four weeks off here and there.   I just had four weeks off.   I'm probably going to have another four weeks off after Dubai‑‑ sorry, after China.   But unfortunately we don't get like a bigger break than that. 
You know, I think that at least it's good enough to kind of disconnect a little bit, but now the seasons are getting longer and longer, and you're kind of on and off all year. 

Q.   With them overlapping as well so much, how do you choose between this event and the BMW Masters? 
SERGIO GARCIA:   Well, you know, I wanted to get a couple of starts on the PGA TOUR schedule for next season.   You know, it kind of fit in nicely to come here and then obviously play HSBC.   So that was pretty much the reason.   They're both good tournaments, but I felt like I could get a couple nice starts to start playing for the PGA TOUR next year. 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:   Sergio, thanks very much.   Good luck this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT