COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 25, 2014
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  PAUL SYMES:   Many congratulations, you made us all wait for your 11th European Tour win but perhaps that makes the taste even sweeter.  
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, it was nice.   I think last year, we had a lot of close calls, starting here.   So very excited to be able to get my hands on this beautiful trophy, beautiful and heavy trophy.   
Yeah, it's a good start to the year.   Great to kind of set up my year a little bit, win again on The European Tour.   Get more Ryder Cup points.   So I couldn't ask for a better week.  
PAUL SYMES:   You had a couple of chances to win, obviously once in regulation and then in the playoff, as well.   Did you maybe think that your chance might have gone.  
SERGIO GARCIA:   No, well, the good thing is, as long as you're putting to win, even if you miss, you know that you're still there.   What I was a bit more worried was when Mikko had that eagle chance on the second playoff hole and then he had the chance to win.   But it was a tough putt.   
Then on the third hole, hit a really nice 5‑iron for my second shot and hit a good putt.   I thought it had a chance, it just missed right and he had pretty much the same putt he had for eagle before and still wasn't able to hole it.   So very happy and very excited about the way that things went.   
PAUL SYMES:   And this has done your chances for making The Ryder Cup Team no harm at all.  
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, it's great, like I said, with the end of last year and the beginning of this one, got some good Ryder Cup points in there.   So still a long ways to go.   Obviously until September, October, but it's good to have some of the work done already and just got to keep doing in the same direction.   
   
 Q.   Just watching you this week all around, you seem very happy off the course and you look very relaxed on the course.   Do you think you're playing some of your best golf at the moment?   It all looks in control.  
SERGIO GARCIA:   Well, I would love to say yes, but the first day I played terrible and I shot probably one of the best 1‑under pars I've ever shot.   But then I seem to get‑‑ to get something going.   Obviously like you said, yeah, when things off the golf course are in good terms, it is a little bit easier to concentrate on what you want to do because you don't have so many things in your head.   So I'm very fortunate with that and with Katharina and with my whole family and the beautiful group I have around me.   
So yeah, it's great to be playing well, it's great to be in this situation, and you know, the goal now is to keep going and to keep improving.   Obviously still feeling like I can do better, so that's the goal.   
   
 Q.   You came so close to winning here last year, does this victory make up for what happened in some way?   
SERGIO GARCIA:   I don't know, it's difficult to say, if it's make up or not.   I think that last year, I played nicely, too.   I got beaten by, well, not only me, but George, too.   We got beaten by a great eagle on the last.   So it was simple as that.   I think that we both gave it a great effort, and Chris was just that little bit better than we were.   
It was nice to be able to have a chance today, because after the first day, you know, I was thinking, okay, let's see if we can find something and make the cut half comfortably and see where we can go on the weekend, and things kind of got going a little bit better.   Obviously yesterday I played nicely.   I played quite well on the back nine but missed a lot of opportunities, and I thought‑‑ to be sincere, I thought my chances were pretty much gone.   I thought that I needed to get to 11‑ or 12‑under yesterday because I thought the lead was going to be probably 15 the way they were playing.  
But they came back a little bit and gave me and some of the other guys a little bit of a chance.   Today I was able to hit the ball nicely.   Hit a lot of good quality shots and made a lot of nice par saves when I had to and that's what comes about.   So it's nice to be able to be here this year.   
   
 Q.   As a follow‑up, your next event on the PGA Tour, how comfortable is it to go back to the PGA Tour with two wins since you last played there?   
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, it is nice, but like I said before I won in Thailand last year, I consider last year was a really good year‑‑ more than anything, not wins, that's what everybody looks at, but the consistency that I was able to achieve last year was what really stood out for me.   
To be able to go out there now with a couple wins under our belt, it's even nicer, but we know how Match Play is.   You can shoot 65 like I did today and get beaten and sometimes you shoot 74 and you win.   We'll try to do our best and we'll hopefully be able to get through some good matches there and see if we can have another chance.   
   
 Q.   What happened with the Spanish army?   
SERGIO GARCIA:   It's nice.   It's nice.   Because you know, for a minute, it looked like last year it was going to be the first year in I don't know how many years when we didn't have a Spanish winner on The European Tour.   And finally, you know, last year, Miguel won, and this year we've already had two wins with Pablo last week and me this week.   
It's exciting on golf terms.   I think that I'm very proud‑‑ I've always said I'm very proud of being Spanish because of everything that Spain stands for.   But, you know, I think when it comes down to sports with the last‑‑ the last eight or ten years, I think we've been really, really good.   
So I think that the Spanish people should be very proud.   We've obviously‑‑ we're not going through the nicest economic times, but you know, at least we can give them something to smile about and be happy about, that's what we try.   
   
 Q.   The last time a Spanish player won‑‑ you seem to be subduing your celebrations‑‑  
SERGIO GARCIA:   I need to catch a flight, so I don't have time to jump in the pond.   Well, I don't know if he did or he got pushed if I remember correctly because I think I was there, too.   No, I'm glad I have the trophy and I'm nice and dry (smiling).  
   
 Q.   What about a Spanish double tomorrow in Melbourne?   Have you been in touch with Nadal?   
SERGIO GARCIA:   No, I've seen a little on TV.   It's a tough week with the time difference, it's difficult.   He's been playing nicely and he's had a couple of really tough matches that he got through, but we'll see.   Stanislas Wawrinka is playing really well, too.   I think he's playing the best he's ever played, so it's not going to be an easy match, but we'll see.   If he wins, it would be great, if not, get into the finals is a really big achievement.   
PAUL SYMES:   Thanks, Sergio, we'll let you go and catch your plane and congratulations again.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT