COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 21, 2014
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on being back here at the Commercialbank Qatar Masters.  
SERGIO GARCIA:   I like the golf course.   I think it plays nice and tough throughout the years.   Good, solid tournament, and it's a nice way to start the year.   So hopefully we can have another good week here and see if we can win.   It would be great but if not at least have a nice, solid week.  
   
 Q.   Last year, it looked like you had done enough for a moment, didn't it, and just narrowly missed out.  
SERGIO GARCIA:   Well, there was always that chance of Chris eagling the last, and after the tee shot, even more.   
Yeah, I think we played nicely.   We tried to give it a good run, and you know, finished with a couple nice birdies.  
   
 Q.   A little change this year, the greens are slightly different, resurfaced.   
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, they obviously look better.   They look very nice.   They are still faster and firm like they were in years past, but they look like they have a little more grass and they are able to cut them a little bit shorter, too.   So they look very nice.   
   
 Q.   How are you?   How is the shoulder after the punishing start last week?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   It's a little bit better.   Still a little tight throughout the Pro‑Am but at least it's not the pain that it was last week.   So hopefully we can be fine and swing free.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel the benefit of having four days of action?   
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, I think it was fine.   I think the shoulder got better as the week went on, so you know, we'll just have to keep working on it and make sure that everything is good.   Yeah, I was able to get a little bit of momentum from Friday onwards last week, so hopefully I can do more of the same here.  
   
 Q.   How was the football?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, it was fun with Martin and Henrik, happy to see that we won, because if not, we would have taken quite a lot of punishment but it was fun.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT