DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 1, 2013
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DOUG MILNE:   We'd like to welcome Sergio Garcia back to the interview room after a successful 3rd round, 6‑under, 65 today at the Deutsche Bank Championship.   And with that, I will turn it over to you for some comments after a successful third round.
SERGIO GARCIA:   Thanks, Doug.   Yeah, obviously very happy with the way it went.   I felt like I played pretty good for pretty much most of the day.   It got a little bit dark on the last hole.   But I'm happy to be able to finish it off and finish it off with a birdie, obviously.

Q.   Did you get what you thought was out there today‑‑
SERGIO GARCIA:   Excuse me? 

Q.   Did you get what you thought was out there today or did you think that you left anything on the golf course?
SERGIO GARCIA:   Well, you always, you know, like a true golfer should talk, you always feel like you leave something out there.   But, you know, I feel like I played nicely.   I feel like obviously two or three putts felt like they maybe deserved a little better than they got.
But I hit good putts.   And sometimes they go in, sometimes they don't.   But, you know, I think that maybe with the lead and shooting 6‑under today, I would have taken it this morning.   I cannot be disappointed with that.

Q.   It's kind of weird, when you start the day with a 1‑shot lead, and go out and shoot 65 in the third round, you usually have a pretty good margin.   Today you had to do that to keep pace with everyone.   Can you talk about that and how it sets up for tomorrow?
SERGIO GARCIA:   Unfortunately because of the storms last night and this morning, it softened up the course a lot.   We were able to play with ball‑in‑hand.
Made some of the shots into the greens a little bit easier.   Some of those pins were easier to attack that if we have good weather and the greens are firm.
But, yeah, it is what it is.   We can't control the weather.   And you've just got to go out there and try to play the best you can.   And I was very happy to see that my best was 6‑under today. 

Q.   When you string those pars together in the front, do you feel the field kind of coming to you?
SERGIO GARCIA:   Well, I mean, you can see that‑‑ yeah, I think that you can see that everybody was making birdies.   But I was obviously trying to make birdies, but at the same time giving myself good opportunities.   I felt like I hit a great shot on 3 and a very nice putt.   And I didn't get the best of lies on 4, so it was difficult to try to make birdie after that.
And then I was able to birdie 5, which is not an easy hole.   It was playing quite long today, so it was not easy.   And unfortunately I pulled it a little on 7 and didn't get a good lie in the bunker.
You could make a lot of birdies if everything went exactly the right way, kind of like it went on the back nine for me.   But you have to be patient and just wait for the right time.

Q.   Have you been able to recover better this week than most?   Sometimes you have a hole and it might snowball on you, that double that could have snowballed.   Have you been able to recover better this week, and string together birdies after a tough hole here and there?
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yes, I guess so.   I think that I've been fortunate to not make many mistakes.   So I think yesterday after the double bogey I would love to make a couple of those birdies on 15 and 16 or 17.   But at least I felt like I was hitting good shots, giving myself good chances at birdies, which is what you need to do when something happens.
And today was similar to that.   I unfortunately made bogey on 14, but then I came back with a great birdie on the next.   I hit it very tight on the next two holes, unfortunately didn't make those putts, but birdied the last hole.   So it was nice to do that.

Q.   Obviously you've got a two‑shot lead going into tomorrow.   I think it's been a little over a year since you won, maybe one tournament in the last five years.   What would it mean to you to win this thing tomorrow?
SERGIO GARCIA:   Well, obviously on the PGA Tour, you're saying that.   I've been fortunate to win some of the tournaments.   It's still tough to win, even on the European Tour.   (Laughter).
It's fine.   At the end of the day the only thing I can do is go out there and give it my best.   Sometimes my best is quite good and sometimes it's not that good.   That's the same thing that I'm going to try tomorrow.   Go out and play the best I can.   Hopefully I'll be able to believe in the way I've been believing this whole weekend.   If I'm able to do that I should have a chance, a good chance of winning tomorrow.   If not, then I'll fight as hard as I can to get it. 

Q.   You've commented this week about this is your 5th tournament in five weeks.   You feel tired.   When you're playing well do you not feel it as much?
SERGIO GARCIA:   It definitely helps.   When you're playing well there's extra juices, you know, extra adrenaline going, and it kind of helps you to keep going.
But I think that it's important to have a nice rest after the round, make sure that you have a nice dinner, have a nice sleep and hopefully be 100 percent going into the next day.

Q.   You don't get to sleep in tomorrow, do you?
SERGIO GARCIA:   I don't get to sleep in? 

Q.   It's not like you have a 2:00 tee time?
SERGIO GARCIA:   Well, but‑‑ I woke up at 4:30 today, because of the storm.   But I feel like if I get six hours of sleep that's enough for me.   I actually feel‑‑ I usually feel better when I get six hours than when I get eight or nine.   I kind of feel a little bit‑‑ not more tired, but you get the yawns going for some reason, I don't know.   It's weird.
DOUG MILNE:   Sergio, we appreciate your time. 
SERGIO GARCIA:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT