DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 31, 2013
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DOUG MILNE:   Sergio Garcia, thanks for joining us after a successful 7‑under, 64 in Round 2 of the Deutsche Bank Championship, capped off a very nice eagle at 18.   With that we'll turn it over to you for comments on the round.  
SERGIO GARCIA:   Well, thanks, Doug.   It was a beautiful day.   We got a little bit lucky because it looked like it was threatening a little bit to rain.   But it was nice to see that.  
Played nicely again.   Kind of like yesterday.   Obviously 14 comes to mind, bad second shot, and kind of snowballed for me after that, second shot there on 14.  
But it was nice to be able to recover from that and hit good shots on 15, 16, 17, even though I didn't make the putts for birdie, kept giving myself chances.   And then obviously to finish with an eagle on the last was perfect.   
DOUG MILNE:   You've had good success here.   You're making your fifth start in Deutsche Bank Championship and haven't finished worse than 31st.   What is it about this place that kind of sets up for your game?   
SERGIO GARCIA:   I don't know.   I guess for the most part I feel quite comfortable on most of the holes.   I guess if you're playing well early on, the first couple of times you play, you kind of seem to like it a little bit better.   So I was able to do that in the past.   And hopefully I'll be able to play well the next couple of days and give myself a good shot at it.   
   
 Q.   Can you just kind of revisit where you were going into the playoffs and why you're playing so much golf now?   Normally you wouldn't play this much golf, but you had to protect your position?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   Well, yeah, I would love to play better at Bridgestone, PGA, finish a little bit better the last couple of weeks and been able to take a couple of weeks off.   That would have been the ideal thing for me.   But unfortunately I didn't play well enough and it was touch and go if I was going to make the BMW without playing here.   Obviously 55th‑‑ 16 guys could easily pass me if they played well.   
So, you know, we decided to come here and make a little bit of an extra effort of playing obviously five weeks in a row, which I don't usually enjoy very much.   But I kind of tried to take it a little bit easy, enjoyed New York City last week and the beginning of this week.   And kind of been taking it quite comfortable this week and make sure that the week goes through nicely.  
   
 Q.   How would you describe the conditions that you've had the first two days?   When you get it like this is there a concerted effort to sort of keep your foot on the gas?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   Well, the course is in great condition.   I think that with the little bit of rain we had early in the week the greens are still a little bit on the soft side.   So today they were a little bit firmer, but not too much because they've been overcut.  
There was a little bit of breeze in the afternoon yesterday.   Today we played the first ten holes, it was perfect, there was pretty much no wind.   And then started picking up a little bit on the 11th hole, but nothing too severe.   
So if you were driving the ball well, hitting good shots, you could give yourself a lot of birdie chances and that's what I tried to do.   Obviously I made a couple of birdies that were unexpected, holes like 11, which was playing very long today, like 238.   But overall it was a very positive day.   
   
 Q.   You've posted some good scores this summer.   Why have you not been able to consistently string together four in a row, three in a row?   What's kept you from finishing higher?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   I don't know, I think that early in the year I was able to do that quite nicely.   I think the summer has been tough.   It's been a little bit difficult for me.   But I'm trying hard to keep going, to keep doing the right things.   And at the end of the day that's the only thing I can ask myself for, give my best effort out there.   Some days you feel better than others.   But hopefully I'll be able to feel as good as I felt the first two days and put another two good scores on Sunday and Monday.  
   
 Q.   When you say tough, is it the off course stuff?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, everything has been kind of a little bit difficult, but it's good.   It's been a good learning experience.   So I think that you always have to try to take the positives out of all those things and learn from your mistakes.   And hopefully make you a better player, a better person.   So hopefully I'll be able to take that out of it.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned the two final rounds coming up.   Are you going to apply the same approach, same game plan as you have the first two rounds, going into the last two?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, that's the plan.   That would be great.   Obviously it comes down to executing your shots.   But, yeah, it will probably be pretty much the same, try to enjoy it, try to take it easy out there and hopefully get yourself going like I've been able to do these first couple of days.   
   
 Q.   When you're in your fifth straight week what is the hardest thing during a round?   Is it the focus or is it the physical part of it?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   No, I wouldn't say physically.   I would probably say it's more mental than anything.   I think when you play at this high level, week in, week out, mentally is the toughest thing.   Physically you're still fine.   It's not like you're playing soccer games every single day.   So you can kind of get away with it.  
But I just feel like I need a little bit of reboot on the head and kind of relax a little bit.   
   
 Q.   On the 10th you guys were put on the clock, how disconcerting was that?   It didn't seem to affect you much.   But could you just address that?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   No, we knew the group in front was playing very quickly.   We were a little bit off pace, probably early‑‑ late on the front nine.   It's not the first time we've been put on the clock in my career, either me or Rory or someone.   At the end of the day you've just got to‑‑ just kind of figure your shots a little bit quicker, make sure you walk a little bit quicker, a little bit faster.   The shot, itself, it doesn't change that much, because you take pretty much the same amount of time.   So you've just got to try to stay with a good rhythm and hopefully make it up quickly.   
DOUG MILNE:   Sergio, great playing today.   Thanks for your time.   
SERGIO GARCIA:   Thanks.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT