DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 30, 2013
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Well, a great start.   Ball‑striking was terrific.   It was fun to watch you play.   You have to be pleased.   
SERGIO GARCIA:   Thank you.   It was a very nice start for the week.   So hopefully we can keep the energy levels up.   It's been a couple of weeks, but hopefully we can keep it going for the weekend.  
   
 Q.   And the putting stroke looked terrific today, you have to be pleased with that, too.   
SERGIO GARCIA:   It was pretty good for the most part.   Obviously missed a couple of putts here and there.   But it felt pretty good.   I hit a good amount of good putts.   And hopefully we can fix those ones that weren't as good.  
   
 Q.   Ball‑striking, it's always fun to watch you when you're in a groove like this.   Has it changed at all over the years or do you still think you're as good as you were ten years ago?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   I guess it depends on the week (laughter).  
I do feel like when I'm striking the ball I can hit it very, very nicely.   But we all go through our ups and downs, like everybody does, I guess.   
But I feel like Bridgestone and PGA I struggled with the ball‑striking a little bit.   The last three weeks has been a little bit better, a little bit up and down, but a little bit better.   Hopefully I can keep it going.   
   
 Q.   How would you rate your ball‑striking?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   Today was very nice.   I got taken away on two drives pretty much, and a couple of shots.   I felt like I hit the ball quite well.   Obviously the last three weeks I've been hitting the ball a little bit better than the PGA and Bridgestone.   But hopefully we can keep it going throughout the next three days.  
   
 Q.   What are those things that you may have cleaned up in the last three or four weeks to put up this impressive number today?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   I don't know.   I think that just kind of keep going at it, trying to do the best I could every single time.   Obviously some days are better than others.   But today was one of those good days, and we will enjoy it.  
   
 Q.   When you come out of the gate with an impressive number like you did today, what kind of mindset does that put you in for the remainder of the tournament?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   No, just hopefully try to do more of the same.   Hopefully play well.   I'm sure that it's not going to go as well as it went today every single day.   But hopefully I can do something similar to that and we'll see where that puts us going into the weekend.  
   
 Q.   What did you do the last few days before you came here to get realigned or recharged?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   Well, it's my fifth week in a row, which I usually don't do.   So I just kind of relaxed a little bit.   I was here and I was over there with good friends in New York and New Jersey, just kind of relaxing and enjoying the city.   And I got here on Wednesday night and played the Pro Am yesterday.  
   
 Q.   You said you don't usually play five in a row, how often do you do that?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   Well, probably in the last eight or nine years I've probably done it twice.   So, yeah, I like to play‑‑ three is usually my max, so this year obviously I would love to play a little bit better and maybe take this week off, but unfortunately I wasn't able to do that and we try our best here.  
   
 Q.   Last year I think you created a nice preRyder Cup break by skipping this event.   In a perfect world, it sounds like you would have done that again?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   If I would have played a little bit better, but unfortunately I didn't secure my spot in Chicago.   And then this is my 15th tournament, so whatever reason a lot of players played well and keep me out, I wouldn't be able to play my minimum.   Just makes a little extra effort this week.   And now I've got my number so I can relax a little bit.  
   
 Q.   For those that would have slept through the '99 PGA, you probably introduced yourself to a lot of fans in this country, does that seem like a thousand years ago?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   It's funny, because you think about it and it's a long time ago.   It's probably 14, 15 years ago.   But at the same time it doesn't feel like it's been that long ago.   It feels like maybe it's been six, seven years ago.  
So the time has gone very quickly, which I guess happens when you do what you enjoy and what you love.   
   
 Q.   You have good memories of that?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, definitely, a lot of great memories.   My first Ryder Cup.   I made a lot of great friends.   It was a hard loss, but I guess we made up for it last year.   It was amazing experience and I played very nicely.   So I was very happy with it.  
   
 Q.   After you won last year, how much did you think about '99?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   Excuse me?   
   
 Q.   After you won it laster use, the Ryder Cup, how much did you think about '99?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   It obviously did come to mind because we knew exactly how they were feeling when we finished, because we went pretty much the same thing.   No, actually the same thing in 1999.   You get over it.   Obviously nobody likes to lose like that, but you kind of get over it, move on, and take the good things out of it.   Which I'm sure there were a lot, like there were for us in 1999.  
   
 Q.   I think you tied for 5th here a few years ago.   How does this course suit your game?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   Well, I think it's the kind of course that you can score if you're striking the ball well.   If you drive the ball well you can attack a lot of these pins.   If you struggle in fairways it can be quite tricky.   With good weather that we're going to have it's going to get firmer as the week goes on.   Today the greens were a little bit softer, so it was easier to attack some of those greens.   But we'll see how it develops as the week goes on.  
   
 Q.   When you start and you get to the first tee, and you see a 63 on the board, do you look at the conditions more than anything else, and see how‑‑ maybe what's out there?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   I could see that they were posting a good number there.   It wasn't‑‑ it was a little bit of breeze, not a lot.   Obviously there was pretty much nothing this morning.   So with fresh greens and not too firm, if you play well, you could do something like what Phil did or Kevin.   So I think that it shows that this kind of course, if you play well, if you hit the ball well, you can put up a good number.   But if you struggle a little bit, it's quite tough to score.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT