BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2013
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, well, wasn't really on my best game today, but you know, I guess it's been a long week, very‑‑ how do you say, a lot of emotions going on, and today I find of felt it a little bit. 
But you know, I tried with what I had.   It wasn't my best game but I still tried.   I would loved to do a little bit better but I can't ask myself for much more. 

Q.   What's the plan between now and going to Merion, because you're not playing at all, are you? 
SERGIO GARCIA:   No. 

Q.   What's the plan?   Holiday at home? 
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, probably just relax and practice a little bit and try to get ready for the open. 

Q.   Have you played Merion before? 
SERGIO GARCIA:   No. 

Q.   Is this a week you're glad to have got through and got through, obviously playing quite well and getting a lot of support out there. 
SERGIO GARCIA:   The support was amazing.   I can't thank the people enough for the support they have given me.   They have always been great everywhere but here in the U.K., they have always been amazing to me, and this week, they were extra amazing.   So, that was amazing.   I think that it would have been very, very difficult to get through the week without their support.   But I guess we'll go back home and try to get as ready as we can for Merion. 

Q.   I know you've been asked every day whether you've managed to contact Tiger, and obviously there's events going on, there's a lot going on there. 
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, we talked to his manager.   We asked him if he wanted us to call Tiger, obviously if he gives us the number or wait for Merion and do it there face‑to‑face, and they said they would rather do it there.   So, you know, there's nothing else we can do, so we'll wait until we get there and we'll talk.

Q.   Will you come back next year?   It's been a while. 
SERGIO GARCIA:   There's a lot of things that can happen between today and next year, but yeah, I enjoyed it.   Obviously I didn't see the course for a long time.   It's changed quite a bit.   But it was a good week, and it would be nice to come back and hopefully in the very near future.

Q.   Are you happy and pleased with the way your game held with so much going on outside and the strength you've shown on the course this week?
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, I guess so.   I guess for some parts of the week, I played pretty good.   Some others, I struggled a little bit.   But you know, like you said, there were so many things going on that it was difficult sometimes to concentrate, but it was‑‑ like I said, I tried everything I had. 

Q.   Players talk about going into a major not wanting distractions and you'll have pretty big one. 
SERGIO GARCIA:   It is what it is.   Can't change that.   We'll see what happens. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT