BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 22, 2013
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Stunning round of golf, describe the emotions after putting yourself right back in the tournament after that excellent round of 65?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, obviously a nice round, I needed it.   But still, a long ways to go.   Obviously any of the guys that are out there are playing good could get at least to 15‑ or 16‑under.   It's still going to be a little bit back I would suspect but at least I played nicely today.   
I played well every day; today I was able to make a couple putts finally, which I struggled with throughout the first two days.   I was able to shoot a nice round.  
   
 Q.   Was that the real difference today the putter, do you think?   
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, I would say so.   I think I hit the ball better than the other two days.   Obviously made a couple mistakes on the first day and stuff.   But you know, mainly I think I've probably been shooting 32, 33 putts on the first couple of rounds and today I was probably in the 20s, so a big difference.  
   
 Q.   Rain overnight and this morning, give us a sense of how course is playing.   
SERGIO GARCIA:   Obviously like you said, there's been a lot of rain this morning and a little bit at night.   The course has held up nicely, though.   It looked like it was very, very wet when we stopped play today, and funny enough, the fairways were a little soft but they weren't picking up mud and the greens looked pretty good.   
   
 Q.   How much are you looking forward to tomorrow?   Obviously don't know how far you're going to be coming into the day but your thoughts heading into Sunday now?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   Well, we'll see.   I'm looking forward to hopefully a good round tomorrow, see what happens, and then taking a little bit of a break.   I feel like I need it.   It's been an interesting probably three, four weeks, so, you know, hopefully we can have a nice rest and feel nice and refreshed for The Open.   
I played nicely.   I think that I had a nice‑‑ finally I was able to roll a couple putts in.   Had a nice couple saves, good saves on the middle of the back nine and that kind of gave me the opportunity to finish strongly.  
   
 Q.   What's made the difference over the previous two days?   
SERGIO GARCIA:   Pretty much putting, that's it.   I've hit a lot of good putts in the first two rounds, and unfortunately had not really made anything.   Just a couple putts.   And today, I was able to make, you know, a bit more than that, and that's why I was able to score a little bit better.  
   
 Q.   Nice to open the shoulders this week after Merion?   
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, I guess you could say that.   But they are all fun in a way.   Even Merion, as hard as it was, it is fun, and it's testing your game.   It's to the extreme, but that's also a great test.  
   
 Q.   On the subject of fun, it seems like the fun of last night has geared you up for a good day today, because that was terrific in Lederhosen and milking cows?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   A few years ago, also wearing the Lederhosen on Friday night helped me put a good round on Saturday.   I don't know, I might have to maybe go out there play with it (laughing).   
   
 Q.   I know we always saw how special BMW events are and how organized they are, but that sort of thing helps the whole environment for a tournament.   
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, definitely.   I think that we obviously are very thankful to BMW, not only for this tournament, but for everything they do for the game of golf.   You know, they sponsor a lot of tournaments, not only here in Europe but in the U.S.   we are very pleased to have them as partners.   The only thing we can do is go out there and hopefully put a decent show so they are happy with it.  
   
 Q.   I do have to ask about your position on that board, because essentially it's early on the third day, how do you think it's going to stand up?   
SERGIO GARCIA:   I don't know.   I wish I had a crystal ball and I could tell you I'm going to be three back or five back or six back or whatever.   I would expect at least one or two guys to get to 15‑under.   That wouldn't surprise me.   
I think that there's a couple pins out there that you can get aggressive with.   Obviously there's a couple pins, also, that are a bit tougher, but you know, I think 15, 16, 17, anybody could get there.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT