U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2013
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What did you think of the test now that it's all over with the setup and everything?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   I think that you can set up any course difficult if you want to.   When the rough is as high as it is and a little bit of breeze that we have had, the greens played soft, but you still had to hit good shots.   And by playing soft, the rough was much thicker.   When it drys up, it's a little bit easier to get a club through the grass.   But when it's as lush as it was this week, obviously it makes it much tougher.   
   
 Q.   You guys face some challenges, some obstacles with respect to getting around.   How did you find that?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   No, it's fine.   I think that we have had that before in the U.S. Open.   It's not like we haven't had it before where we needed to get a shuttle to go to the 9th, the 10th or the 11th tee in this case.   
   
 Q.   You came in here playing well, was it the golf course, was it just the fact that it was the U.S. Open?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   Four holes.   
   
 Q.   It was four holes?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, obviously you didn't see my round, so if you look at them, you'll realize that I had 15 over in two holes.   I mean in four holes, actually.   215s and 214, so you take that away, and I played well.  
   
 Q.   You thought you played well then for the most part?   Was it execute or what was it?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   No, it was a little bit of everything.   First day I was a little bit unfortunate, I slipped on 14 and hit it out of bounds.   
And 15, I hit a bad shot and obviously had to hit it again.   
But yesterday I thought I hit two good drives to start with on 15, unfortunately they both went just out of bounds.   And it's just kind of holes, they're the kind of holes that you have to be spot on.   You can't miss it.   
Today I didn't hit a big drive.   I missed my fairway by probably four yards from the fairway and I was in the hay.   So it's just that kind of tournament that it is.  
   
 Q.   Will par be a good ‑‑  
SERGIO GARCIA:   I missed it right.  
   
 Q.   What was going through your head, did you push it, did you just not ‑‑  
SERGIO GARCIA:   I obviously pushed it.   
   
 Q.   Would par be a good score here today?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, I would say so.   It's quite breezy out there.   So if you can shoot anything around, being in the last groups and stuff like that, if you can shoot anything around even par, 1‑under, 1‑over, it's a good round.  
   
 Q.   Do you think some of the fans were a little unfair to you?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   I don't know.   You ask them that.   
   
 Q.   Coming to 18, you went over to the gallery and it looked like you gave away your golf ball or what did you give away and why did you give it away?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   Well, somebody shouted did you make another 8?   And I just went over there and gave her my signed glove.   
   
 Q.   Was this a tough week for you with all the controversy surrounding you with regard?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   What do you think?   What do you think?   
   
 Q.   The Tiger controversy?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   What do you think?   
   
 Q.   I think it was very tough.   
SERGIO GARCIA:   Okay.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT