BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2013
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Your verdict on a round with some birdies and one or two bogeys, as well?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   I felt like I played obviously the best today.   Hit a terrible shot on 1 after a great tee shot.   But other than that, I hit a lot of good shots.   I didn't really putt that well.   I'm struggling a little with the pace of the greens and missed a couple of short putts today.   But other than that, it was obviously a much nicer day and it was nice to shoot a decent score.   
   
 Q.   How has your focus been on the course today?   It's been developing day by day; were you really distracted by all that's been going on?   
SERGIO GARCIA:   No, it's getting better every day.   There's no doubt that everybody has made it so much easier for me.   The crowds here, I don't have words to explain what I feel towards them.   They have been amazing, every single tee, every single green, cheering me on.   I can never pay them back.  
   
 Q.   It's a very bunched leaderboard; do you feel you're still in contention?   
SERGIO GARCIA:   It depends, obviously the leader is at 9 right now.   If it stays somewhere around there, I think that I do have a chance.   If they go to 11 or 12, probably too far back.   The only thing I can do is go out there tomorrow, hopefully play like today, shoot a good round and see where that puts me.   
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on your position in this tournament, please?   
SERGIO GARCIA:   Well, nice round today, no doubt about that.   Nice to play with a little bit better weather.   And you know, very happy with the way I played today.   I think that it was a nice, solid score.   Obviously could have been a little bit better.   Missed some good opportunities and a couple short putts.   
But you know, after the rain, the greens get a little bit bumpy; sometimes you hit good putts that don't go in and I hit a couple bad ones that didn't go in.   Other than that, it's good.   
   
 Q.   You did mention the weather; how much different is it?   I'm sure the answer is obvious?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   It's quite a bit.   Must be at least 12 or 13 degrees warmer, and it's just nicer.   The wind is a little bit different, I think more like what it was yesterday afternoon, late afternoon.   But you know, some of those holes coming in, they are not playing that easy, so it was nice to be able to play them fairly well.  
   
 Q.   And I presume like all of us, it just lifts your mood and you feel better about playing out there?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   Well, the weather, yes, for sure.   Weather like yesterday, probably at home you won't even go out of the house, but we had to put the rain gear on and go out there and try our best.   It's nice to see two days like this, and supposedly tomorrow is supposed to be nice, so we'll see.  
   
 Q.   Proud of yourself, the way you've kept things going?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, I think so.   I think it's been a tough week but we've been getting better every day, so hopefully we can finish on a high note tomorrow.   We'll try to go watch the Champions League final tonight and kind of disconnect a little bit, and enjoy it.   
   
 Q.   So you are going to Wembley?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Bayern or Dortmund?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   I would have to say Bayern, support my sponsors (smiling).   
   
 Q.   Can we ask about the galleries and how difficult it is to deal and how they have responded to what's happened this week?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   The galleries, I don't even have words to describe how they have been.   They have been amazing.   Don't get me wrong, they have always been great to me here in the U.K., well everywhere, but especially in the U.K. they have been amazing to me.   
But this week, it's been amazing.   Even I think I was talking to Lee, because I think he was playing behind me on Thursday and try day, and he said after Thursday, he said to me, "I don't think I've ever heard a roar like that for anybody going into the first tee here."     So that was very nice.   
   
 Q.   It's a long time since you've been here, the way the galleries that have responded, everything that's been going on, persuade you to come back and play here next year, as well?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   Well, I love playing here.   I love playing in the U.K.. I've always said it, in my mind, these are the best crowds we have.   They really understand the game of golf and what it's all about.   But you know, sometimes schedule‑wise, it doesn't suit up and it doesn't fit‑‑ you try your best, but I would love to, for sure, come back as many times as possible.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT