WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 26, 2021
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Heck of a way to advance to the Sweet 16.  Just talk about the hole-in-one on the fourth extra hole.
 SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, I don't know.  I really don't know what to say.  Obviously, yeah, a hole-in-one is amazing.  Lucky No. 13 for me.  But you know, the two putts I made on 2 and 3, massive, to keep myself going.  And then obviously the shot on 4, it's a great shot, but then you get lucky that first of all it doesn't hit the flag because it must have been very close to hitting the flag, and then it rolls back in.
 Obviously very happy about that.  I'm sorry for Lee because I did a couple stupid things to him this week, the first day and today, but unfortunately one of us had to lose.
 Q. Was it a little bit of a roller coaster day with your match and then into the playoff?
 SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, I mean, it was a tough day.  I don't like to obviously make excuses, but obviously Matt Wallace played probably his best match of the week.  I had a little problem with my left foot throughout the day.  I had to take some Advil on the 6th hole, on the 6th green because the arch of my left foot was cramping and I was struggling to get through the ball.
 Because of that I didn't hit the ball as well as I did the other days.  I didn't hit it poorly, but I just didn't hit it quite as well.  I'm going to have to work on it because tomorrow hopefully is going to be a very long day, and I need my feet to be in perfect shape.
 Q. Is that something that's happened before?
 SERGIO GARCIA:   No, no.  It was fine, and then I got to the locker, I put the shoes on, and all of a sudden I started cramping.  I tried to stretch it and it just wouldn't loosen up.  I don't know why.
 But we got through it, so that's the most important thing.  I think that showed a lot of heart out there with some of the putts I made on the playoff, and then obviously the shot on 4, and very happy with that.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT