THE 148TH OPEN
July 18, 2019
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You must be satisfied going in 2-under as the conditions turned.  
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, it was tough all day.  This course is playing difficult.  It was quite breezy.  So some tough holes out there.  Obviously 18 we played into the wind and with rain, so that played really long.  I hit a good drive and I hit 4-iron in, probably even could have hit 3.  So we'll see.   
Now all of a sudden, you know, it stopped raining, and looks like it's maybe a little less wind.  It's just what The Open does.  It's always you get stretches like this here and there.  So you've just got to deal with them.   
 Q.  You must be very happy going into Round 2?  
SERGIO GARCIA: Obviously I am.  I'm very satisfied with the way I played and the way that the day went.  It was a solid day.  Like I said, it wasn't easy out there.  It was quite windy all day.  There were some really tough holes, and obviously on the back nine.   
So I was very pleased with that.   
 Q.  Your record in this championship is very good.  
SERGIO GARCIA: Thank you.   
 Q.  Why?  Why do you like playing this championship?  Why do you play these courses as well as you do?  
SERGIO GARCIA: I've always loved it.  And I've always said that I've always loved this championship, not only because of the golf courses because I played since I was probably 12.  I'm European, so you always relate to The Open the most.   
And I love the crowds.  The crowds are so amazing here, so respectful and so excited to watch us play.  So all those -- the mix of all those things and some of these amazing courses that we play here, it makes up for a great championship.   
 Q.  Is there a technical reason, your golf swing or approach?  
SERGIO GARCIA: No, I just like it.  I've always enjoyed -- I've always enjoyed links courses.  So I guess it just feels good.  I'm always excited to come back to play in The Open.  And we'll just try to keep doing more of what we did today.   
 Q.  The atmosphere is even better than usual because of being here this year.  
SERGIO GARCIA: Well, I don't know.  Obviously you see a lot of excitement.  There's always a lot of excitement when you come to The Open.   
But because of being here in Northern Ireland you can see that also the Irish people are really excited about it and you can feel it throughout -- we felt it throughout the practice rounds, too.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT