MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 14, 2013
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Can you just tell us a little bit about your round and how you felt today? 
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, well, I guess it was a nice way to finish after really not getting much in my middle two rounds.   It would have been nice to score a little bit better.   I think I played pretty good.   Probably overall the best I've played at the Masters.   Unfortunately I didn't score very well. 
But other than that, I guess it's been an okay week, and we'll go to Spain and play the Spanish Open next.

Q.   That's next week, right?
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yes.

Q.   And you're looking forward to that?
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah.

Q.   You'll probably finish top 10 here.   Are you happy with that or a little disappointing after the first round? 
SERGIO GARCIA:   No, I think I am where I deserve, and you have to be happy with that.   I tried as hard as I could every single day.   Unfortunately a couple of the days didn't go my way.   I had two very good days and two not‑so‑good ones.   So overall I can't be too disappointed with it.

Q.   And how do you think the course set up today? 
SERGIO GARCIA:   It was a shame it rained because it was looking great.   It was looking kind of like yesterday.   It was playing tough, which I enjoy.   Actually nice to see the course play that way finally.   It's been a long time since it played kind of like this, like the last couple of days, or day and a half. 
But yeah, overall it was good.   It was tough but good.

Q.   What is your schedule after the Spanish Open? 
SERGIO GARCIA:   I think I'll take a week off and probably come back for Wells Fargo and Players.

Q.   What do you take away from this after coming off and how would you assess your play this week?
SERGIO GARCIA:   It was a solid week at the end of the day.   I think obviously it could have been better.   It feels like it should have been better the way I played throughout the whole week.   But I just couldn't really get anything going the middle days. 
But other than that, I think it was okay. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT