THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2013
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Two good chips and a good shot on 17, a nice way to bounce back from 15?   
SERGIO GARCIA:   Well, it was a good way to finish the round.   I wasn't feeling very comfortable on the back nine.   I was struggling a little bit, but you have days like this and you have to somehow get through them.   
I'm pretty happy with this score.   Obviously, I would have loved to shoot a 68 or 67, but it felt like a good 72.  
   
 Q.   Did you think the ball was in on 17?   
SERGIO GARCIA:   No, I was actually hoping it wouldn't go in the water.  
   
 Q.   No, I mean in the hole, did you think it was in the hole at 17 when it was in the air, the tee shot?   
SERGIO GARCIA:   Well, it was looking good.   I thought it was going to hit behind the pin and maybe spin back.   Obviously, I'm not going to lie, I pulled it a little bit.   I was trying to hit it a couple yards right of the pin.   But when it hit the pin, I was fortunate that it didn't hit it dead on because if not it probably would have gone in the water.   So it was nice to get a about good break, you might say.   Hit on the pin and going 15 feet away is a good break, but it was nice to make the putt.  
   
 Q.   Talk about, Sergio, if you could, the chip on 16?   
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, 16 and 18, it's two tricky lies.   They weren't the best lies in the world.   And just tried to be as confident as possible, tried to believe the ball was going to do what I thought it was going to do.   Obviously, that didn't happen on 11.   I thought the ball was going to come out different and it came out absolutely dead.   
At least on these two I was able to run it a little bit more so I could get a little bit more aggressive with my stroke and hit two really nice chips and a couple nice putts.   So, yeah, it was definitely nice.  
   
 Q.   How do you feel about getting to play with somebody different in the fourth round?   
SERGIO GARCIA:   I think it's probably good for both of us.   I mean, it's as simple as that.  
   
 Q.   Do you know anything at all about David Lingmerth?   Have you ever met him?   
SERGIO GARCIA:   Well, I've met him here, yeah, not very much.   Obviously, I think he's a rookie.   I saw he played well in the Humana, I think it was, Humana Challenge early in the year.   So he's obviously a very nice player, trying to find his way on this TOUR and it will be fun to play with him this afternoon.  
   
 Q.   Do you watch a lot of golf on TV?   
SERGIO GARCIA:   A little bit, a little bit.   I mean, I love sports so I watch everything.   I'm going to watch the Formula 1 right now.   They're racing in Spain.   But a little bit, but I'd rather watch something else; I'd rather watch tennis or football or Formula 1 or something like that.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the focus heading into the afternoon round?   Is there had anything you're particularly focusing on?   
SERGIO GARCIA:   No, hopefully, hit the ball a little bit better.   That's pretty much it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT