WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 21, 2013
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   A match that took over 30 hours to resolve.   Was the first emotion relief? 
SERGIO GARCIA:   I don't know.   It's weirdness, I guess.   Yeah, it's been quite frank a day and a half, I guess, with yesterday, how difficult it was yesterday, then the snow and all the delays, and one more hour, and one more hour, and a half an hour, and half an hour.   And then the way I started. 
I guess at the end of the day, I was pleased to get through, but I need to get much better if I want to keep going through this week.

Q.   You say the way you got started.   Tell us about the putt; what happened?
SERGIO GARCIA:   Well, it's hard, obviously.   So many hours waiting here to see if we start.   They haven't cut the greens for two days, so you know it's a quick putt, you know it's downhill, but there's a little bit of uncertainty in it.   And then obviously a little bit nervous, and I overhit it, and it was obviously very quick, went to nine feet, and then I hit a terrible putt.   And then he made a great birdie on 18 and had a great chance on the 1st hole to close out the match, hit a great putt and unfortunately it lipped out, and then I was fortunate enough to play the 2nd hole fairly well and made birdie.

Q.   Comments on playing Matt Kuchar tomorrow?
SERGIO GARCIA:   Like I said, I need to improve a lot if I want to keep going through this week. 

Q.   You're first off again tomorrow?
SERGIO GARCIA:   I don't know.

Q.   I think you're match 33 or something. 
SERGIO GARCIA:   Probably.   First off every day this week.   Beautiful. 

Q.   This format already is wacky to begin with, match play.   How much whackier is it with all these delays?   Can that throw you off a lot?
SERGIO GARCIA:   Well, I mean, it's‑‑ I guess it's like any other week, but I think the worst thing about it is knowing‑‑ last night, knowing already we're not going to play until midday, and the TOUR not saying something until 1:30, which we knew was going to be impossible, and then this morning as soon as we woke up, we knew it was going to be impossible to play before noon.   We knew it was impossible.   But I don't know, they still bring us here and they still make us wait here three or four hours.   It's just unfortunate, I guess.   But I guess you have to do it, and that's what it is. 

Q.   Do you think you'll hit more balls today?
SERGIO GARCIA:   No, I'm done.   I've had enough. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT