MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2013
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about the conditions today versus yesterday.   
SERGIO GARCIA:   Obviously much more difficult today, very gusty winds.   It was not only the strength, because if it's consistent you kind of figure it out, but unfortunately today it was very, very gusty.   There were some shots that you would hit well and it would make you look a little bit silly, like what happened to me on 15, I hit a great 3‑iron.   It's almost dead calm when Angel and Adam were hitting.   I hit mine, I hit what I thought was a perfect shot to the middle of the green and caught a huge gust and unfortunately it comes up short into the water.   
You know, those things you can't really control.   But even though with everything that happened today, we still are in a decent position to hopefully do something on the weekend.   
   
 Q.   With the two early bogeys, how much did they set the tone for your round today?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   Well, I mean, the third I missed my tee shot and I put myself in a bad position in the bunker, a very difficult shot that was actually a good bogey.   The bogey on 4, if it goes five feet farther‑‑ we're hitting 2‑iron, 3‑iron into a pin that you have three feet to hit it on, and it's raining and the wind is coming from one side, then it's coming from the other.   I hit it straight at it, and unfortunately it didn't carry four, five, a couple of feet.   I made bogey there.   
But then I felt like I hit some nice shots.   It wasn't playing easy.   I just couldn't really give myself a lot of nice birdie chances, even though I was hitting some good shots I just couldn't figure out the wind exactly.   There's nothing you can do about that.  
   
 Q.   On 15 it almost looked like you were dumbfounded by what happened.   Were you a little star‑crossed by what happened today?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   Like I said before, when it's this gusty you have to get lucky because you have to guess if it's going to gust or not.   I could be wrong.   The shot I hit on 11, I'm not going to say that was the wind's fault or anything.   That was a bad shot, and that I can take.   
But the tee shot on 13, I thought it was great.   Obviously turned it a little bit‑‑ the wind hit both of their balls, it didn't hit my ball, and three yards farther right it's perfect.   It hits the trees and goes in the water, end up making 6.  
15, I hit a great tee shot and a great 3‑iron.   There wasn't much wind when I hit.   As soon as I hit it, a big gust of wind, hits just short of the green and comes back into the water, managed to make a good 5.   
When that happens it's difficult to get things going.   It feels like even your good shots you're not getting rewarded.   I hit a great shot on 18 and we were playing the wind left to right and it turns more downwind and we're on the top shelf, and now you're struggling to make 4.   There's nothing you really can do about that.  
   
 Q.   Just the satisfaction that it wasn't even worse, that you didn't allow yourself to be more aggressive and just stayed patient and‑‑  
SERGIO GARCIA:   Don't get me wrong, I was trying to be as aggressive as I could, but things just didn't want to happen.   Like I said before, the good thing is even with everything that went wrong, I felt like I hit‑‑ other than a couple of holes I felt like I hit the ball very nicely today.   I hit a lot of good shots.   I hit some good putts that didn't go in, and I'm still hopefully not too far away by today's end.   We'll see what happens for the weekend.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT