DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 25, 2012
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about how well you've played today and put it in context of the week.   
SERGIO GARCÍA:   I guess after some weeks of not playing competitive golf, I guess you could say it's normal, kind of like the week I had.   Two very, very good rounds and two poor rounds.   
Today was probably the day I felt the best.   I was trying a couple things that obviously worked so that was nice, and yeah, great to finish with the round I did today.  
   
 Q.   Some satisfaction to take away from this week?  
SERGIO GARCÍA:   Oh, definitely, a lot of good positives.   I putted well all week.   Probably the first day was my worst putting day, but other than, that I putted nicely.   I hit a lot of good shots.   I hit some bad ones obviously and they cost me quite a bit.   But I guess that's probably the inconsistency of not having played for awhile.  
   
 Q.   Is it making a huge difference to your game?   I guess only time will tell, but with the eye surgery.   I know you can see wrinkles on people's faces and things like that.   
SERGIO GARCÍA:   Is it making a big difference?   I don't know.   Obviously it's making a little bit of a difference but you know, I don't know if I see the greens better or not.   I obviously can see my spots better.   You know, at the end of the day, putting, it's all about feel.   Obviously if you read them well, it's important but you also have to know the right speed.   
I think it definitely helps but I don't know to what extent.   
   
 Q.   And it certainly bodes well for the future presumably that you have this sorted?   
SERGIO GARCÍA:   Yeah, it was mainly a comfort thing more than anything else.   I mean, I wasn't comfortable with the contact lenses, and it's like everything, once you have seen what you can do, or what you can see in this case, it's hard to go back to the other.   So I wanted to get that fixed, and you know, it's fine.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT