ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 28, 2019
Sergio Garcia
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A great finish, lots of excitement, but let's go back to the end of the front nine, eagle at 7 and birdie at 11.  How aware were you of what was going on behind you, and did you have a number in mind at that point?  
SERGIO GARCIA: Well, I mean, we knew a little bit what was going on.  Not completely.  But our number all day was trying to get to 24, so 5-under today.  But we realized it wasn't that easy.  Obviously Tommy made it look easy today, but the greens were really, really fast.  They were very firm.  They were difficult to handle.  It was difficult to be aggressive with your putting because every time you hit a little bit of an aggressive putt, you hit it six feet by, and you don't want to leave your partner six-footers over and over.  But I think it was a good day.   
 Q.  We talked about that 67 number last night when you guys came off the golf course.  Speaking of not trying to leave your partner six-footers, et cetera, that mindset changed on 17.  That was a hell of a birdie by you, Sergio.  Did you guys have the same read right away?  Were you just sold on it, because it looked like you smashed it in there, Sergio, with authority.  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: I think we were pretty clued up, yeah.  We were due one pretty much.  It's funny when you feel like moments are going to happen.  I said, "I need you to hole a putt."  And as soon as it got on the green, obviously the first bit -- the grass can do anything off the greens with it being as grainy as it is, but as soon as it got on the green, it never looked anywhere else.  It was a big moment that.  Whether we win or just finish ahead of the rest, it was a massive moment.  We still had a chance, so holing big putts like that is key.   
 Q.  You might come up one or two short, but just thoughts on the day?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: I think just be proud of how well we played.  Neither of us hardly missed a shot.  I think what you don't see is how tough the conditions are.  For us playing, didn't really get out of position, never missed a fairway, we could control the ball a bit and then the greens where it was so difficult, to shoot 68 that easy in foursomes is a very, very good day.   
 Q.  At 16 what happened with the decision making?  
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, it was simple.  It's not an easy shot to start with.  The wind was into on the left.  It was my tee shot.  If he would have hit maybe -- as well as he was hitting his driver, maybe it would have been a little bit easier with his little draw, but with me hitting a fade, it's easy to come out of it a little bit, hit it on the right rough, and then you -- like Tommy said, you have no control, the way the greens were.  If the greens were softer, then it's different.  But the way the greens were, it becomes a really, really tough chip.  As well as he was hitting the ball, I knew if I put it in the fairway and left him a wedge in, I knew he was going to give me a chance to make birdie.  I actually felt that that putt had a chance.  Unfortunately it didn't, but we put a great finish on it.   
 Q.  Finishing back-to-back birdies; to start the day was there a number you had in mind of what you were trying to get to?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: Yeah, 24 was something we had in mind.  But you have that number, and then the conditions out there, we could have easily shot it, but it didn't really lend itself to really great scoring in the end.  But we could have got there, and we were just one short.  Might have been short anyway, but 24 would have been great.   
 Q.  Your first time playing as a time.  How much fun was that?  Are you going to be back next year?  
SERGIO GARCIA: It was awesome.  I loved it.  Tommy is one of my best friends, and I'm a little player, so I think we had a great time, and not only played well but we had a great time on and off the golf course.  Yeah, I reckon we can play again.   
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: We might give it a go again.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT