WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 27, 2019
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Birdied the first, 2-up through 5 and it started going.  Once you get ahead you've got to keep your foot on the pedal, you've just got to keep in control of it?
SERGIO GARCIA: Yes, I mean that's what you try to do.  It's easier said than done, obviously.  But, yeah, I played well.  I think I made three or four birdies on the front and no bogeys.  And then on the back I kept giving myself good birdie opportunities.  Unfortunately, I didn't really make any until here on 16, and Shane made a couple to kind of get back on it.  Made it a little bit more interesting.
But I felt like I played quite well.
Q. The objective is to get your first match underway this morning, and you did that?
SERGIO GARCIA: Yes, it is important in this format, it's important to win the first one.  If you don't win the first one, then you feel like you're behind the 8 ball the whole rest of the week.  So it was important to do that and now we've got to go out there tomorrow and hopefully get another win and that kind of makes things a little clearer for Friday.
Q. That outward 9, to turn 4-up and then 5-up after 10.  Were you then able to dictate the match from that point on?
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, obviously Shane put a good fight starting on 11.  We both had good birdie chances there.  I had a great chance to go 6-up.  And then I missed a couple good opportunities and he made a couple nice birdies.  But I just stayed patient.  I knew I was playing well.  So I just had to keep giving myself chances and put pressure on him and see how he would do.
Q. I like that, patience and Sergio do not always go together through some of your younger years.  How much has your Ryder Cup experience helped you in match play to teach you patience, to teach you when to go, when to push it, when to lay back a little bit?
SERGIO GARCIA: Well, it does help, there's no doubt about it.  But every match is a different world.  Every match is different.  You can't just take it that way.  But I think obviously the experience from playing a lot of match play does help.  At the end of the day you just have to play well, it's as simple as that.
Q. Do you feel like this is a home match?  You're a long way from Spain, but Angela, your wife, from Austin.  You have a house here.  Do you feel like this is a home game for you?
SERGIO GARCIA: Kind of feels like it a little bit.  Obviously it's not my home home.  But we enjoy spending a little bit of time here, when we're not in Switzerland.  And so we made some good friends and it's a great town.  So I enjoy it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT