THE BARCLAYS
August 23, 2012
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Coming off of last week, great win.   Is it easy or hard to get back out on the course?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   No, it's definitely‑‑ if you take a nice little rest like I did on Tuesday, it's definitely easy, because momentum is there, you're feeling good about your game.   So it's obviously‑‑ yeah, it obviously makes it a little bit easier to go out there and hopefully play like I did today.   
   
 Q.   How did you play?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   I played good.   I didn't think it was playing that easy, but obviously there were a lot of good scores.   There wasn't much wind.   The greens weren't extremely firm, so you could attack some pins if you were in the fairway.   But I don't know, it's funny how if it says U.S. Open in front, it seems to play harder just because of that than if it's just a normal PGA TOUR event, because I don't think the course is playing that different to what it was maybe in 2009.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, but not that much, either.   The rough is‑‑ compared to the way we've played it the last five or six years at the U.S. Open, if you just miss the fairway it's not that different to what it is at a U.S. Open.   I think that obviously if you hit it a little bit wider at the U.S. Open, it does get tougher.   
But overall, I mean, the greens have been wet every year here, so they've been soft every year.   So I guess with the greens not being too firm in the morning and the fairways getting a bit more run, obviously the course was playing a bit shorter for us, so it made it a little bit easier, some of the shots into the green.   But overall it's quite similar.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the birdie on 18 and how important it was that get that.   
SERGIO GARCIA:   Well, I mean, it was okay.   I didn't think it was‑‑ it would be more important if it's on Sunday to win than today to shoot 4‑under, 5‑under.   Both rounds were great, 4 or 5.   I think obviously finishing with a birdie is nice, and it was nice to kind of curl it in there on the right side.   
But it's just the beginning, so hopefully we'll keep it going throughout the week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT