THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2012
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How do you explain the difference on the front and the back for you today? 
SERGIO GARCIA:   I don't know.   I guess if I had all the answers, I would have tried to play the front a little better.   I think that it's just one of those things, I hit some good shots on front but unfortunately I hit too many bad ones, and I got strongly penalized for them. 
Back nine, I hit the ball a little bit better.   I hit it a little bit closer to the pin.   Hit a couple par 5s in two, which helped.   And rolled a couple putts in, so you know, it's pretty much as simple as that.

Q.   Did a shot or two or a hole or two in particular get you going?
SERGIO GARCIA:   No, not really. 

Q.   There wasn't one that kind of started getting you some momentum? 
SERGIO GARCIA:   No.   I mean, I could tell you maybe this or that, but no, it seems like every time I made a birdie, I made a bogey on the next.   No, I couldn't really tell you.

Q.   One of your better back nines here?   You've played this course a lot; 31, in these conditions. 
SERGIO GARCIA:   Well, like I said before, I obviously played well.   I hit it tight on 10.   I hit it close for eagle on 11.   I had a good birdie chance on 12   that I didn't make.   And I hit it close on 13, and good opportunity on 14 and rolled a nice putt on 15 for birdie.   Almost made eagle on 16.   17, 18, hit two great shots, and unfortunately I hit it just a little too far on both of them and hit a great putt on the last and unfortunately it didn't go in.   But there's really not much you can say why it happens.   I just played nicely, rolled a couple of putts in, and managed to stay out of trouble. 
So under the conditions, I think that wasn't easy to do, and you know, probably got lucky.

Q.   How difficult is it going to be as the day goes on?
SERGIO GARCIA:   If it doesn't rain, it's going to become difficult, because the greens are going to get firm.   It's going to be much tougher to stop the ball.   Obviously in the morning, it was as windy as it is now but you could stop some of the shots.   And that made it less difficult so that obviously helped.   But we'll see.   I guess it depends on how the day goes. 

Q.   How much was the wind a factor out there today?   In other words, 67, would you be surprised if anybody went lower than that? 
SERGIO GARCIA:   Well, I shot 68, so‑‑ you can do it.   I mean, it is windy.   But the beautiful thing about this course is that if you play well, and you hit your spots, you can shoot a good number.   The same way that you're a little bit off and you start hitting shots the wrong way, you can post a lot of big numbers. 
It's doable, there's no doubt, but I don't know, we'll see.

Q.   Do you feel good going into tomorrow?
SERGIO GARCIA:   Do I feel good?   I don't know.   I need to go to the physio and get my knee checked.   That's the most thing that I'm concerned about at the moment.   So we'll see, hopefully it will feel good tomorrow.

Q.   Is the knee something that happened today?
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, this morning, I don't know why.   Out of the blue. 

Q.   On the course or warm up? 
SERGIO GARCIA:   No, no, at the house‑‑ not even.   Just in the kitchen, I just put the knee down and it kind of missed, kind of failed me.   It mostly does it when I'm walking down a hill.   So it's just like a needle underneath the knee.   I don't know what it is. 

Q.   Left knee? 
SERGIO GARCIA:   Left. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT