THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 1, 2019
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Recap your round for us today.
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, a lot of good things.  Unfortunately some not such great things coming in.  It's a shame, obviously.  Would have loved to finish 5- or 6-under, which I think I had a great chance of doing.  Unfortunately just managed to get in a little bit of trouble there at the end.
Q. Are you a guy who looks at the leaderboard kind of halfway through the round and sees yourself up there amongst those leaders?
SERGIO GARCIA: I do take a couple of peeks here and there, but it's only Friday, so not really too much.  Obviously when things happen a bit more on Sunday, then you look a little bit more, but just kind of like that.
Q. Not the finish you wanted today; what are you going to work on this afternoon going into the weekend?
SERGIO GARCIA: Nothing.  I'm going to rest.
Q. Yesterday you said you didn't really capitalize on some birdie opportunities; was it more of that today or something else?
SERGIO GARCIA: Well, I did miss some good chances probably in the first 15 holes.  Then just hit a couple bad shots, couple bad decisions coming in on those last four holes and cost me a couple of bogeys.  But other than that, it was pretty good.
Q. I don't want to put words in your mouth, but you did comment yesterday about how you look so much ahead to THE PLAYERS.  In a week like this are there things you're working on so they really do peak in a few weeks?
SERGIO GARCIA: No, you just try to try to keep improving on every aspect of the game.  It's just another week.  Obviously you just have to hit the shots and you have to do it here, you have to do it there, you try to do it every week.  It's as simple as that.
Q. Were there any things that you noticed that were different playing in the afternoon wave versus the morning today?
SERGIO GARCIA: Oh, it was definitely a little bit calmer early on, then the wind started picking up towards probably the last five or six holes.  But yeah, I mean, other than that, obviously I think the greens get a little bit firmer as the day goes on, as the afternoon went on, and you kind of feel it a little bit more.  But it's a shame we didn't take a little more advantage of it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT