MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 6, 2012
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Sergio, you're right in it.   Great round of golf.   Are you content with the way you played today?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, I think under the conditions I played very nicely, gave myself a lot of good birdie chances, had a couple nice saves here and there.   I mean, if you would have given me 68 this morning the way the course was playing, as cold as it was playing, as long as it was playing, yeah, I definitely would have taken it.   
   
 Q.   You were saying Tuesday that (indiscernible.)  
SERGIO GARCIA:   No, not at all.   No, it's not killing.   If it was killing me, I probably wouldn't be playing.   It's sore.   As the round goes on, you kind of get used to it a bit more.   But it's definitely better than it was on‑‑ it's better than it was yesterday, but hopefully it'll be worse than it'll be tomorrow.   Hopefully it'll get better tomorrow and as the week goes on it'll get better and better.   It's just one of those things that you've just got to play through it.  
   
 Q.   Are you comfortable with all aspects of your game right now?  
SERGIO GARCIA:   There's always things that you want to get better at.   I think that I've hit some good shots out there, I've hit some shots that need to get better.   But overall I think that under the conditions we played yesterday afternoon and this morning, I'm pretty happy with the way it came out.   
   
 Q.   Couples is a very popular guy.   If he were to win this thing, obviously it would be a huge, huge positive thing for the patrons.   Do you sense the crowd willing you on, though, because everyone would love to see you get that first major.   
SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, I think that the crowd is always‑‑ they're always pulling for everyone.   I think that they're pulling for some guys a little bit more than others, there's no doubt.   They've always been good to me here.   I obviously do feel their heat and their cheers and stuff.   It would be nice, but it's Friday, so I don't want to get ahead of myself.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT