BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 17, 2011
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Seems you didn't get off to the best of starts. 
 SERGIO GARCIA: Well, it was a good score, but I had a couple of poor shots out there. I just got lucky today. I holed -- I chipped in once and holed another one from the bunker and putted nicely. But yeah, I mean, it's obviously a good round. This course is very difficult the way they've set it up. It's obviously a nice round, but I would like to hit the ball a little better.

 Q. What does it tell you about where you're at with your game that you can go out and make a good score even though you're not entirely happy with the way you were playing?
 SERGIO GARCIA: I didn't hit it well. I just didn't play well, simple as that. It's been a while since I've felt fresh. It's been a long season, played a lot of tournaments the past 12 months, and unfortunately that's the way this year has been. Being outside the top 50, I'm going to have to play my way into some of the majors, so it's been hard, but I'm looking forward to finishing.

 Q. Do you still have enough in the tank for one last push tomorrow and if necessary a week in Atlanta next week?
 SERGIO GARCIA: I don't really care. I'm just going to play tomorrow and whatever happens, happens. If I play well and I make it to Atlanta, great. I don't think it's the ideal thing for me the way I feel, but you know, I'll go out there and obviously try to play the best I can and see what happens. 

 Q. First out, first in, and you pop into the top 10. That's finishing your work early. 
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, well, it was nice. Obviously a nice round. I hit some good shots in there, but I hit a lot of poor shots. But it was definitely a nice round. The course is playing tough.

 Q. It was hard to keep track of you on your front nine after teeing off on 10. We have you going bogey, birdie, birdie, bogey, birdie, eagle. 
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, I don't know what to tell you. That's the way it was. I hit a couple bad shots and made bogeys and then hit a couple good shots in there and holed one from the bunker, chipped one in on 15. I was kind of getting away with it. I guess that's the way it was.

 Q. 22 putts in the third round, 75 putts total in the tournament through 54 holes. 
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, I've said it before, don't get me wrong, I'm not unhappy about my round. I think I hit more greens on the first round than I did on the last two combined, so that's not really a good thing. I've just been lucky to chip fairly well and putt nicely, hole a lot of good four-, five-, six-footers for par, and that's the way it is.

 Q. Do you come out aggressive in the final round because you need a good finish to get to the TOUR Championship? 
 SERGIO GARCIA: I just want to get done.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT