DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 3, 2011
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You had it going on, especially that front nine. 
 SERGIO GARCIA: I did, yeah. You know, I didn't play too differently from yesterday. The difference was that today the putts, instead of lipping out, they were lipping in, and I got a couple good breaks here and there. But no, it was definitely a nice round. The course wasn't playing that easy, even though it was in the morning. There was a little bit of breeze. The greens are probably going to get quite firm this afternoon. And just a little bit unfortunate, I guess, a couple, two or three good birdie chances on the back nine that I didn't take advantage of.
 But other than that I think it was a good save on the last, and I got a little bit lucky on 6 just to make bogey.

 Q. Eight-foot par save on the 9th. 32 putts in the opening round, 26 putts in the second round. Was there any mechanical adjustment there for you?
 SERGIO GARCIA: No, not really. Like I said, yesterday it's not like I putted badly. I had a lot of lip-outs, I had a lot burning the edge, and you know, it was one of those days where nothing wanted to happen. Fortunately today I got out there, I made a nice putt on the 11th to start with for birdie and I rolled some good putts in in a row there, made four birdies in a row. It's just one of those things. 

 Q. Does a round like this help your confidence?
 SERGIO GARCIA: My confidence is good. It was good yesterday, and it's still good today. 

 Q. One revolution short of holing out for eagle. 
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, obviously it would have been nice to hit it about an inch and a half farther and make 2, but 3 was a great score on that hole. I hit a nice tee shot and a very nice 8-iron. I was more worried about the bogey made on the last than that hole. I was trying to hit just a power low drive with a little bit of a cut, and unfortunately I pulled it just slightly and hit it in the left rough and didn't hit a good shot. I got a little bit lucky, was able to get on the green and hit a nice putt, but unfortunately I couldn't make it.

 Q. Could you talk about that stretch right before the turn when you made like four longish putts in a row? 
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, I made a nice putt on 16 probably from about 30 feet or so. 
 Then 17, I hit a good shot to probably about 16 feet or so, and I rolled that in. 
 Then on 18, I hit two really good shots, and it just went through the green, and I hit my chip to about probably eight or nine feet, made that. 
 Then I hit another good shot on the next and hit about probably 18 feet behind the hole and rolled it in. 
 Yeah, it was a really nice stretch. But like I said, yesterday I hit a lot of good putts. Unfortunately, you know, that's the way it goes. Some days they lip in and some days they lip out, and yesterday they lipped out and today the ones that were going around the edges lipped in, and the ones that were going in the middle had no chance of missing. 

 Q. Does this course suit your game?
 SERGIO GARCIA: If I play good, I think any course suits my game. Usually my ball-striking is fairly good. I usually drive the ball pretty well. I hit a couple wayward drives today that I didn't like very much, but other than that, it was good. 
 Yeah, I've done well on this course. I do like it. 

 Q. How would you say overall this year has been for you, your confidence and your game?
 SERGIO GARCIA: I think it's very positive. I think it's been very positive. It's still not finished. There's no doubt that you could probably say that I probably deserved to win already by now. But at the same time it's been a process. It's been building up, and my game has been getting better and my short game has been getting better. That's the why I look at it very positively, and I'm just hoping to keep getting better.

 Q. Are there certain things that you're working on? I know you sound like confidence-wise you're there. Swing-wise, putting-wise?
 SERGIO GARCIA: Not really. I feel comfortable with everything I'm doing, I'm just trying to stay positive with it, stay aggressive, and just believe in myself.

 Q. Talk about working out with the Revolution. What was that like?
 SERGIO GARCIA: It was good. It was a lot of fun. It wasn't the first time I've practiced with a professional team. We have our own team in Spain, second division, but it's nice, semi-pro, I guess. And then I had the chance of practicing with Villa Real, which is a pro division team, and once with Madrid and obviously with Castillon, which is second division. 
 It was a good experience to have, and I might do it again. 

 Q. Could you step in and play right now? 
 SERGIO GARCIA: You know, I wish it was that easy. Unfortunately, I mean, I think skill-wise I could probably fit in, but unfortunately fitness-wise I can't run for the amount of time those guys do. I might last between 30 and 40 minutes at the most giving it my all, and then I'd be quite tired. 
 Playing soccer, everybody thinks you runs and stuff, and you think, oh, I run. It's not the same. All the sprints are 100 percent, and every effort you make is 100 percent. It takes a lot out of you. 

 Q. With this morning wave coming through, Snedeker is still at 9, you're at 6. What do you think about how the day is going to end going into the weekend? 
 SERGIO GARCIA: I don't know. I don't have a crystal ball. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT