THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 17, 2011
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Can you sum up your day.  
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, good day, very tough conditions. I hope the wind doesn't stop after that rain. But yeah, no, it was a good, solid day. I started really, really well, made a couple great putts early on. Then got to 4-under after 7. Unfortunately had a little hiccup on 8, but played nicely after that, had some good opportunities. Unfortunately they didn't drop, but a good finish, and I can't be disappointed with it. I feel like both me and my playing partner, we've played in the worst of weather throughout the week with the draw we had, and you can't be disappointed about the week then.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about getting on the leaderboard and your thoughts going into 8. You were T7 there when you got to even. Were you aware of where you were?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: Well, I knew I was even par and I knew I was five shots back. The funniest thing about it is I didn't play 8 that badly and I made double. But that's what can happen here. My drive just went just a tiny bit too far right and it went down in a gully, and then it's one of those shots that if you hit it up in the air, you're probably going to hit it 100 yards, and it's going to go in the middle of all the bad stuff there. So I was hoping that the ball would come out flying, it would come out hot with a 5-iron and hopefully get somewhere on the front edge, maybe just short. Unfortunately it didn't come out as high as I thought it was, and it hit the bank and then it was bad lie after bad lie. And then I hit a great putt for bogey, and I don't know how it didn't drop.   
 But after that I think the positive is that after that we played well again. We hit good shots on the next two holes, we hit good putts. Unfortunately we didn't make them, but like I said, before the day, if you would have given me 2-under par, I would have taken it. Obviously after being 4-under through 7 you think about it twice, but it was -- I can't be disappointed.  
  
  Q. You were level through 14. How good a score was that? It's a tough stretch.   
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, 1-under from 14 onwards. Yeah, I think that was good. I mean, 14 -- are you kidding me? The sun is going to come out now (laughter).  
 14, we hit a 4-iron and we hit a 7-iron from 125 yards. And that out of bounds gets really, really close when the wind is blowing hard out of the left.   
 Then I think we played 15 great.   
 We finally hit a good shot on 16, made a great birdie.   
 Unfortunately just a little bit disappointed on 17 after a pretty good drive.   
 And then 18 we played good again.   
 So it was a good finish, very tough conditions. Then after not finishing that great the last three days, it was good to do that.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 SERGIO GARCIA: No, no. I mean, I don't think he's got one chance of winning, but I thought the way that it was, I thought if he would finish 1- or 2-under maybe he had a chance. But 2-under, I don't know, I knew it was going to be a decent finish. We'll see. People haven't finished yet, but it should be fairly good.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 SERGIO GARCIA: No, it's great. I think the U.S. Open and Munich were very, very important because that was my last chance to get here unfortunately because of what happened at the qualifying. You know, I've said it over and over again, this is my favourite championship of the year. I love this tournament and I wanted to be in it. Even though I was disappointed with not winning the BMW in Munich, there was something that made me smile a little bit, which was that I knew that I was going to come here to Royal St. George's and play The Open, which was always very special.  
  
  Q. What stands out most in your mind about Darren?   
 SERGIO GARCIA: Well, unfortunately I haven't played with Darren in the Ryder Cup. He's great. He's a great man. He's a wonderful player. He's been close to winning major championships, too. Unfortunately he's been a little bit unfortunate, I guess.   
 But no, he's great. There's still a long ways to go. Hopefully he'll get through it and do it. But he's a good man, so hopefully he'll get through it.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, similar situation, Lee Westwood, similar situation. But this game is just like that. Sometimes you feel so in control and sometimes it feels like everything goes wrong. So it can be -- I think that's the beauty about this game, that it can be so giving, and at the same time it can be so annoying. I guess that's why we always come back.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT