U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2011
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. It was maybe not the finish you'd like, but it was a nice round of golf out there. If you could describe the way the round went for you today?
 SERGIO GARCIA: It was nice to start like that. Obviously it is disappointing to finish it the way I did after the birdie on 17. I hit two nice shots on 18.
 Overall I think it was a nice round to start with. There's still a long way to go. We haven't done anything yet. 

 Q. You've played in a lot of U.S. Opens before, you know what the USGA tries to do, make it the toughest, fairest test of golf. Do you find this course easier than you would have expected, the way it's playing today?
 SERGIO GARCIA: No, I don't think it's easier at all. I think that we got fortunate, obviously, with a bit of rain we had this morning, the overcast, and now the rain, obviously. So the greens were a little bit softer. If it would have been a little bit firmer you would not have been able to see some of the scores you saw there.
 It's like any U.S. Open, if you drive the ball well there is -- there are going to be some opportunities there. If you struggle with your driving then it's going to be a struggle. So it's pretty much as simple as that. 

 Q. Do you like this course? Have you had success on this course before? I know it's set up differently than it was for Booz Allen, AT&T. Is there something here that brings out your best golf?
 SERGIO GARCIA: No, I don't think so. I think if I'm confident out there and I try to pick my targets and pick my shots, it works. If I'm not, then it doesn't matter how well you've done it, of course, the ball doesn't have a memory.

 Q. What part of your game are you happiest with?
 SERGIO GARCIA: I think today it was taken away a couple of shots. Pretty much everything. I feel like I did a lot of good things. So I just hit a good amount of fairways, hit a good amount of greens, made a couple of putts here and there. So overall it was nice. But like I said before, it's just Thursday, we just started.

 Q. The new grip on the putter?
 SERGIO GARCIA: I've been using it since last November.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT