U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2011
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   SERGIO GARCIA: I think it was a good result. Obviously a shame, the last couple. But overall I think that the first day we played really well and then we managed to stay very patient the next three days without having our best game.   
 You know, I'm happy about that, so that's a positive, and then we'll just hopefully keep moving forward.  
  
  Q. Your mindset when a guy like Rory just takes off the way he is, when you come into a Sunday you're just looking to finish strong and obviously as high as possible and not thinking about the results?   
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah. I mean, I was just going out there to try to feel as calm as possible, try to play as well as I could, knowing that it was pretty much impossible to beat him because he's playing really well. And the way the course was playing because of the rain and everything, it was hard to see a -- somebody needed to play extremely well and he needed to play poorly, and that wasn't going to happen.   
 But I think that we hung on pretty well. I would like to have played a little bit better, but overall I can't be disappointed with the week.  
  
  Q. Do you feel you keep seeing progress, and where are you seeing it?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: It's getting there. There's always things I need to get better at.   
 Yesterday, I felt a little bit jumpy, a little bit nervous. Today, I feel a little bit more calm. But I still had a little bit of trouble trusting a few shots here and there, trusting my draws with the driver. But I know what happens. I know exactly what happens, what is the problem. My body doesn't get through the ball and then I start hitting it right.   
 But I think, like I said, overall it was a solid week, and that's all I can ask.  
  
  Q. For all intents and purposes, when was this over in terms of Rory winning this thing? Was it over at the midway point?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: No, you never know. You never know. But I thought yesterday was a very good round for him to go out there and shoot 3-under after everything that everybody said and everybody reminded him about Augusta, about the British and stuff. So I think it was nice to see him overcoming all that. And then as soon as he started well today, you could see that he was feeling comfortable.   
  
  Q. This is your 10th top 5 in a major, which is incredible play. Do you feel in your heart you're going to get one of these one day?   
 SERGIO GARCIA: I don't know. I think maybe I'll get lucky one day, but I'm just -- like I said, I'm just trying to get better. I know at the moment it's probably tough for me to get one because things are still not right. But it's getting there, and hopefully it'll get there soon.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT