HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 28, 2011
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: We would like to welcome Sergio Garcia into the interview room. Sergio, I saw a player earlier this morning who missed the cut who said he was looking forward to watching how everyone did today.   
 SERGIO GARCIA: Who was it?   
 THE MODERATOR: Andres Gonzales. Comment on the wind.   
 SERGIO GARCIA: It was definitely hard. At the same time I have to say I got nothing out of my round. I could not shoot one shot higher than I did today. So if you look at it that way, and I'm only one shot back behind Ryan, and I have tomorrow, I think it's pretty positive. I made a soft bogey on 16.   
 Then, you know, where I probably would have had a good chance at making birdie on 11, unfortunately, things didn't happen. But there is still tomorrow. We know it's going to be hard again, it's going to be similar to today.   
 Just going to be -- the good thing is I felt like I was patient out there, just waiting for my moments. Unfortunately, things didn't want to happen, but we have a shot.   
  
  Q. Sergio, it looked like the wind actually affected you more on the putting greens, or you had more questions about the wind on the putting greens than you did hitting your irons. Am I right about that?   
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, definitely. The thing is, obviously it doesn't show up as much -- if you hit a good shot, it doesn't show up as much because it might be -- instead of being 10 feet it might be 15 or 20 feet, so it doesn't show as much.   
 But when you're putting and you're standing over a putt and you know it's a right edge putt, and the wind is blowing hard from the left and you have to hit it inside left, sometimes it's hard to commit to that, and sometimes you hit it and the wind stops and you miss it left and -- so obviously when it's this windy, one of the hardest things is putting, because, you know, a little -- just an inch here and there can be the difference between making the putt or not.   
 Unfortunately that happened to me today. On 7 I hit a good putt, the wind blew a little bit, and it lipped on the right. 13, same thing.   
 There were four or five putts like that. If it showed today like yesterday, when things are going your way, those putts instead of lipping out go in, and you shoot even par or even 1-over, it's not a bad round under the conditions.   
  
  Q. It seemed like every time Ryan had a putt for a par that was outside of 5 feet it ended up in front of your ball or he made those putts today that slipped by for you.   
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, but that didn't matter to me. I guess we were all -- we were both playing our game and I knew where I was standing, and I knew what I could do. He obviously knew what he could do, too. But, yeah, he made some nice putts early on for some good saves. Then toward the end we -- none -- neither of us could buy a putt.   
 Like I said before, the positive thing is that we are hanging in tough and we try hard. It was the kind of day that -- look at Rory Sabbatini, for example, yesterday, it's the kind of day that if you let yourself go, it can go very wrong, and we grinded as much as we could.   
  
  Q. Sergio, how much of a challenge are holes 15 through 18?   
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, I mean, forget about those four; I think the whole course is a challenge. Even the holes that are down wind are not easy, because you have to fly on the right spots if you want to have a chance of making birdie, and sometimes it's not easy to pick out the right club, but obviously the finishing holes are very tough. 15 is a very solid par 4 with the wind on the left it makes it quite difficult. I've managed to play it very well this week.   
 On 16 I just messed up on my chip, but I felt like I hit two good shots; unfortunately, if my ball goes three yards further left, it's on the front of the green and it's a much easier 2-putt for birdie. 17 and 18 are just hard holes. You just got to try to commit to your shots, and unfortunately I haven't done that on 18 on my tee shot, but I've hit some good shots on 17 and, you know, we'll see.   
 Tomorrow is going to be difficult, again, so we'll try hard again.   
  
  Q. Sergio, given that the conditions are going to be difficult you're probably not expecting anybody to go low tomorrow, it's probably going to be a matter of survival?   
 SERGIO GARCIA: Well, Mike, I think that -- yeah, I think obviously a lower round here is probably something like a 2-under, 2, 3-under, this is a low round. I think that was probably the best round today.   
 So unless somebody goes crazy and everything happens to him, I don't think anybody's going to shoot 6 or 7-under, under these conditions. You never know, but I'll just -- I think what I need to do is go out there and keep doing the things I've been doing. Hopefully a couple of the bad breaks that I got today will be good tomorrow and we'll be in a different situation.   
 THE MODERATOR: Sergio, we appreciate your time, play well tomorrow.   
 SERGIO GARCIA: Thanks.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT