MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 7, 2011
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   SERGIO GARCIA: Obviously I would love to make par on the last but that's the way it is. You miss a shot here, you're going to get punished by it and unfortunately I did. 

 Q. What you did on 13, the eagle?
 SERGIO GARCIA: I hit driver, a smooth 6-iron from 189 and putted it about 15 feet short. 

 Q. We talked about your work-in-progress, are you continuing to make the shots and things that you want to see?
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, I hit a lot of good-quality shots. Unfortunately, you know, these greens, you have to be 100 percent committed. You can hit a good putt with just a little bit of lack of commitment, and if the speed is just a little bit off, instead of going in, it's just going to burn the edge.
 Other than that, I felt like it was a good, solid day. I felt like I played nicely. I hit some really good putts and made some. Unfortunately I missed some, too. Overall, I think it was positive. 

 Q. Do you have a different approach to this golf course now after you've been here for some period of time?
 SERGIO GARCIA: Not really. 

 Q. Just the same things?
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, the course is still the same. It's obviously a couple of changes here and there. I don't think there's been much of anything this year. But yeah, you know how to play it. Unfortunately it's just a matter of being able to execute the shots you want to hit. Obviously if you do, then you know you're in pole position and you know you can do whatever you want. 
 If you miss a shot here or there, you have to kind of think your way around and see how can you make par or maybe a miraculous birdie. 

 Q. Didn't look like you had to think your way around trying to find ways to make pars today?
 SERGIO GARCIA: A couple. I hit a pretty good drive on the first and stymied behind the tree. I made a good four to start with.
 On the last I pushed it a little bit to the right and hit the tree and had to hit a big slice for my second. 

 Q. Any other saves today? 
 SERGIO GARCIA: Not really. I hit a lot of good shots. Hit a lot of greens. Not a lot of good birdie chances. Hit a lot of good putts and unfortunately some of them didn't want to go in. But you know, other than that, it was good. 

 Q. What about 14? What did you hit in there?
 SERGIO GARCIA: I hit a really good drive and a wedge from 146 downwind. Almost went in, unbelievable, to six inches.

 Q. 12, 13, 14, really pretty interesting holes and you turned the momentum back in your favor?
 SERGIO GARCIA: Well, I bogeyed 12. That wasn't great. I hit it just a little bit over the green and wasn't able to get up-and-down. 
 Yeah, I managed to make a nice eagle on 13. That was a very nice drive. And then an easy birdie on the next. I would have loved to make that putt on 15, unfortunately it just lacked a little bit of speed. It was probably about six feet but down hill, left-to-right. 

 Q. What was your club at 12? 
 SERGIO GARCIA: I hit a little 8. 

 Q. What's the ribbon on your hat?
 SERGIO GARCIA: A friend of mine, last week, my ex-physical trainer, he died from cancer. So a good friend of mine and I wanted to pay tribute to him. It was very quick. They found out probably about three weeks ago. He had surgery and within probably six or seven days, he was gone.

 Q. His name?
 SERGIO GARCIA: Enrique Beltran. 

 Q. How much difference is your confidence in your mind-set? How much easier is it to play when you're feeling good and positive?
 SERGIO GARCIA: It definitely helps. I'm not going to say -- I'm not going to lie to you. My confidence is still not where it should be, because if not, some of those shots on some of those putts that I missed today, I definitely would have made them.
 But it's definitely better. This is a tough course to build up on confidence, unless you're playing really, really well. But if you're doing that, then your confidence is probably quite high. Like I said before, the important thing is that it feels like we are going on the right track. I feel good about the game. I feel good about the things I'm doing. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT