THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 15, 2011
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Sergio, a great round today. You've got to feel like things are coming together. You're getting pretty close?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, I definitely think today was a nice round. But I don't know. It's kind of been like that for the past three months or so. I've been saying that I'm feeling better. I'm definitely hitting the ball better. Unfortunately, nothing's been happening on the weekend. I've had some rounds where I played really well and I shot 2-under and I'm moving back.   
 But today finally things seemed to happen a little bit. I played nicely, I hit some good shots and rolled some good putts in. Then just a little bit unfortunate the two bogies, to bogey 8 and not be able to birdie 9.   
 Other than that, it was, yeah, it was a nice, positive way to finish a tournament.  
  
  Q. What do you think was different? How do you feel different in the last few months? Your play seems to be really moving.   
 SERGIO GARCIA: I'm definitely hitting the ball better. Every aspect of my game has been improving. I think my chipping is obviously better, my putting is a little more consistent. But mainly just doing what I want to do at home, enjoying my things at home, and that's making -- when I come to a tournament, it makes me enjoy it even more.   
 Things like we did on Monday where we played the football game and everything, those kind of things, I need them. I can't really live without them and be happy. So, obviously, you're taking a risk, but it's something that I'm willing to do.  
  
  Q. Did you actually try to play a little more aggressively today figuring it might be okay if I take some chances to see if I could make a score?   
 SERGIO GARCIA: No, no, I just tried to play the same way every day. I try to play well every day. Unfortunately, first day I didn't play that great, and yesterday I played pretty nicely and then I had one really bad hole on 17.   
 So other than that, it was good. I went out there today and tried to trust what I was doing, tried to believe in what I was doing, and I happened to happen a little better.  
  
  Q. It happened very early in the week. But how big was the eagle at 9 that got you to back to sort of 2-over, and gave you a look of you could go ahead and try to make the cut?   
 SERGIO GARCIA: It was big, because at that time I was feeling quite bad. I played terrible that first day, so it was definitely important to get myself a chance of making the cut on Friday. Then, obviously, you have to still play well on Friday, which we did.   
 It's just, like I said, but you never know. If I finish par-birdie yesterday instead of triple-bogey-birdie, I might not have shot 7-under today. So I guess it is what it is, and we take it.  
  
  Q. Your realization that you have to do the extracurricular things like playing soccer on Monday and things like that, how did that come about?   
 SERGIO GARCIA: I've always thought about it. But, I guess, you always worry too much about things and stuff. It's like I said. Obviously this risk and those are things that I'm willing to take. If I hurt myself four months out, so be it if I'm meant to be injured.   
 At the end of the day, I think as you get older you get to know yourself a little bit better and you know what you enjoy doing and what you don't enjoy doing and the things that help you in your life. Those kind of things obviously do help for me.  
  
  Q. It seems like you found a way to overcome burnout. Let's say last year you felt burned out and now you've seemed to overcome it. Was it just to step away for a while or was it other things?   
 SERGIO GARCIA: It was a little bit of everything. I think that you can call it burnout, but it was mainly just becoming a little fed up. Not feeling like playing. Even though I was trying my hardest out there, I couldn't get into it too much. My head wasn't in the right spot. Obviously, when your head isn't in the right spot, your body doesn't react the way it should be. That's always a losing combination, I guess.  
  
  Q. So finishing holes, a fine line between disaster and success?   
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yes, definitely. If you're not fully committed to your shots, they can be treacherous. It happened to me yesterday, and today I was a bit more committed. I was able to hit better shots and I played them much better.  
  
  Q. Is it Unique to this course, the swings you can have, the three-, four-shot swings?   
 SERGIO GARCIA: Last week it's almost the same. You can finish birdie-par-birdie, or birdie-birdie-par, and somebody can finish bogey-double-double or something. So, yeah, these two courses last week and this week definitely give you a little edge on that.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT