WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 29, 2019
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Today may not be the result you wanted in the match but the overall result is good, moving on to the knockout round.  Some thoughts on today?  
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, definitely.  Obviously that was the goal.  In the perfect world I would have loved to win today and I probably had my chances to do it.  But you also have to give credit to Patrick, he played really well, mainly the back nine.  He shot 5-under in 8 holes.  So obviously when someone does that to you and you don't take a couple of chances that you had, obviously it's going to be difficult.  But we're through tomorrow.  That's the main thing on this round-robin thing.  And now tomorrow it's a brand-new tournament.   
 Q.  You have a match against Branden Grace tomorrow?  
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, it's going to be tough.  Obviously he's a great player.  He's playing well.  I've known him for a long time.  He's obviously done very well in Europe for a long time and here in the U.S.  A nice guy, we're a good friends.   
I'm sure it will be a nice match to play, and I'm going to have to play my best if I want to beat him.   
 Q.  Your chip on 12 was way short, you kind of get over that ridge.  Patrick birdied that hole.  Did that get him started you think?  
SERGIO GARCIA: No, I wouldn't say that.  He made a good putt on 10 for birdie.  I hit a nice putt on 11 and just missed to go back to 2-up.  And then, yeah, I under-hit my chip a little bit.  Obviously I just needed to get over the hill and I probably need to hit it three more feet and then it would have been good.  But unfortunately it just caught a little thin and didn't get down the hill.  He managed to make a good birdie, and then he made three really nice putts on the last three to finish with.  So it's simple as that.   
 Q.  Did you change your club on 13, 14, your iron?  
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah.  I'm glad I went to less club.   
 Q.  Yeah.  You changed clubs?  
SERGIO GARCIA: I went to less club but still hit over the green.  So obviously the wind was playing tricks on me.  I hit a really nice shot there.  I never thought that 165 into the wind like it was supposed to be, that it would go over the green.  But I made a great up-and-down.  So I didn't lose the hole, which was important.   
 Q.  How about on 16, you had driver in the fairway.  Was that one of the best shots you hit all day?  
SERGIO GARCIA: Probably, yeah, under the conditions and the way the match was going.  Unfortunately he made another long putt there on me for birdie, so I wasn't able to win that hole and kind of get to all square going to 17.  But, yeah, that was a nice shot.   
 Q.  Where your game is right now, it seems like you're really strong.  Do you feel that way?  
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, I'm playing pretty solid.  I think that the first two rounds I played really well.  Today I played well, I didn't play spectacular, but I played quite nicely.  Hit a good amount of nice shots.  Unfortunately I just ran into Patrick that really got going there, making a lot of birdies on the back nine.  But other than that it's fine.   
 Q.  Do you feel like you're a little under the radar, here?  
SERGIO GARCIA: I don't know if I am or not, I don't care.   
 Q.  How important is momentum in a tournament like this?  Do you feel like you have momentum going into the round of 16?  
SERGIO GARCIA: Of course.  I'm in the round of 16.  The guys that are going home are the ones that have no momentum at all.  So obviously I have momentum going on.   
 Q.  How about being a daddy, has that been a distraction?  
SERGIO GARCIA: No, it's not a distraction.  It's awesome.  It's the best thing.   
 Q.  What do you like best about it?  
SERGIO GARCIA: Everything.   
 Q.  Are you pretty good at changing diapers?  
SERGIO GARCIA: You should ask my wife about that, but I feel like I am.   
 Q.  Has it changed you in any way?  
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, definitely, definitely.  It changes.  It changes yourself, for sure, having a baby is a thing that changes you the most and for the better.  So, yeah, it's definitely been an amazing experience.   
 Q.  Where do you think your form is going to the Masters?  
SERGIO GARCIA: We'll see when we get to Augusta.  There's still two weeks to go.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT