OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 10, 2011
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. A round of 5-under par with no bogeys, how well did you play today?
 SERGIO GARCÍA: It was good. I'm not going to say it was great because I did it hit a couple of drives that I didn't enjoy. But overall, I think it was good. I think I probably played my best when the wind picked up. I hit some really good shots coming in, and on that front nine, from 1 to 9, there was some tough holes coming in. It was like 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, were playing quite difficult. We managed to play them pretty well.

 Q. How much does the wind affect the golf course; quite a lot from what you're saying?
 SERGIO GARCÍA: Definitely. I don't think we are used to playing this course much wind. Usually it's quite calm. It's not like Qatar that usually blows. When it picks up here, it's tough. The fairways are tough to hit, they are all in angles, and if you miss the fairway, it's a lot tougher, because the greens are much firmer and it's tough to control the ball out of this rough. 

 Q. You've been telling us for the past few weeks you've been building steadily and gaining confidence; how much confidence did you have with the Top-10 last week? 
 SERGIO GARCÍA: It was good. The weekend was really nice. The first couple of days wasn't very nice, but the weekend was nice. I think that, like I said there, we are trying. Hopefully we are building some nice things, working on a couple of things that feel better. I failed a little bit today trying to do those things and I need to keep working and trying to go the same way. 

 Q. Overall assessment today? 
 SERGIO GARCÍA: It was pretty good, yeah. It wasn't easy out there, even though maybe Rory made it look easier. But it was tough. It got quite windy towards the back nine. And I think the course is playing -- the course is playing good. The fairways are not very wide. The rough is quite tough. And the greens are as firm as I've ever seen them. Yeah, it's a very challenging course. 

 Q. Rory made the point of wanting to get off to a good start, knowing that you have the best of the weather first thing with the wind picking up; same thing for you?
 SERGIO GARCÍA: Yeah, definitely. You want to get off to a good start no matter what. Doesn't matter what kind of weather you get. It was nice to be able to do that.

 Q. Continuation of last week, because that was a very nice weekend you had in Qatar, wasn't it. 
 SERGIO GARCÍA: Yes, it was. It was a positive weekend and we are just trying to keep it going similar.

 Q. Do you feel the game is just taking shape neatly step-by-step?
 SERGIO GARCÍA: You know, it's slowly getting there. Still needs to improve, and there will be some not nice rounds coming. This is just the beginning. 

 Q. So you don't read too much into being in a lovely position on the leaderboard at the moment?
 SERGIO GARCÍA: Not at all. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT