DUBAI WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY DP WORLD
November 25, 2010
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  First Round 69 (-3)

 Q. An opening round of 3-under par, give us a sense of how the golf course is playing today?
 SERGIO GARCIA: Well, there's no wind, so you can -- if you drive the ball well, obviously there's a lot of bunkers in the middle of the fairways and things like that. If you manage to hit a good amount of fairways, you can be fairly aggressive to some of these pins, because the greens, even though the weather has been good, the greens are softer and receptive and you can stop the ball fairly quickly.

 Q. You took some time off to rekindle your desire in the game and you played a couple of tournaments before this one, how are you feeling now?
 SERGIO GARCIA: It's okay. It's getting there slowly. It's obviously a work in process, but it's slowly getting there.

 Q. Next year, your pro secretaries for that, you've teen three European Tour Members winning Majors and we want to see Sergio doing the same, do you feel like that could happen next year?
 SERGIO GARCIA: I don't know. I'm not worried about it. We'll see. We'll see if that is really my goal. I'm not sure about that. 

 Q. Overall, are you feeling pretty good about your game?
 SERGIO GARCIA: Well, at points. At times it's pretty good, but at times it struggles a little bit. We need to hopefully get better as it goes. 

 Q. Season is coming to an end, last tournament of the year, it's been a tough year for you. How do you feel with your game right now?
 SERGIO GARCIA: Well, I think it's been a good learning experience, that's for sure. So I don't know, it seems to be coming along. I'm having some good rounds. Unfortunately some other ones, not that great. We are working on it but hopefully get Bert as we are going.

 Q. 3-under par seems to be a very solid result. How pleased do you feel with that result?
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, good finish. I finished with three birdies. That's always positive. 
 So, yeah, it was a round that not much was happening, and then we managed to birdie the last three, so pretty happy about that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT