WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 25, 2021
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. As you look back at the match what was the biggest key for you to walk off with a victory?
 SERGIO GARCIA:   It was just consistent play.  I think it was a very tricky day, it was much windier than it has been the last couple of days.  Also, probably a different direction.  So obviously started well, that always helps, got up early, missed a couple opportunities but then I made a couple nice putts on 8 and 11.  Kind of kept myself going.  And then hit some good shots coming in and that was about it.  But it's a tough match, you know, I mean both matches yesterday and today, they're two guys that obviously are friends of mine and they're really, really good players, so you know that it's going to be tough and you just hope that you go out there with your best game and get the W.
 Q. Is it coincidence or not that you're playing well here this week and obviously a town that you love and a place that you kind of call home?
 SERGIO GARCIA:   Is it coincidence?  I don't know.  I mean, obviously, yeah, obviously I love Austin, it's a really, really cool city.  Probably in my opinion probably the best city in the country, but that doesn't mean that I'm automatically going to play well.  So, and I obviously played nicely at PLAYERS so, that was a nice week to have and put some good practice last week, to kind of consolidate that good week from THE PLAYERS.  So I'm happy about that, but still have a tough match tomorrow that I need to go out there and win.
 Q. Finally, as you have become a son of the city, and become more popular in the community, are you feeling the support out there from the fans for you?
 SERGIO GARCIA:   Always, yes.  I've always felt it here.  It's always been great.  I've always -- I felt it everywhere, everywhere I go I'm very fortunate with that.  But obviously here, since we have been kind of in and out of here for the last four or five years and marrying a Texas girl and a UT girl in Angela, so it's great, we made some good friends here and I enjoy it, so that's probably one of the things why I feel comfortable here.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT