VERIZON HERITAGE
April 15, 2010
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   SERGIO GARCIA: I shot a decent round, and if I play half decent I should be able to make the cut tomorrow.

 Q. Last time I talked to you was at match play and you were not happy with your game. Where is your game right now?
 SERGIO GARCIA: Well, we're working on it. But it's taking time.

 Q. Is it one thing? Is it a bunch of things? Can you explain to the listeners and fans what's going on. 
 SERGIO GARCIA: Whenever I figure it out, I'll let you know. 

 Q. Can you talk about 9 here and the way you approach it. I know Stewart had about 110 in. You and Camilo went after with big drives. Is that the game plan? How do you like playing this hole?
 SERGIO GARCIA: It depends. If you're not into the wind, you know that you can get it around the bunker or in the bunker, and that's never a bad spot. It's pretty narrow. But if you hit a good drive, you can have a decent putt for birdie. If it goes a little bit into the wind, then you might lay up with a 5- or 6-iron.

 Q. Good start today. Good luck tomorrow. 
 SERGIO GARCIA: Thank you. 

 Q. Three birdies in a four-hole stretch. What helps you through that to get you back up on the leaderboard?
 SERGIO GARCIA: I don't know. I think that the course is playing beautifully. It's a wonderful golf course. You have to drive the ball well. It's a course that you can (indiscernible), but I think I managed to hit some good shots today. I hit some nice putts. Overall it was good.

 Q. You changed your grip for this round. Tell me when you decided to and why. 
 SERGIO GARCIA: I thought about it yesterday. It hasn't been feeling great. I've been having a lot of trouble with my right hand. So I went from the (indiscernible.) It's a weaker grip. I lost a little distance. But it feels like I'm able to keep my arms and hands a little tighter. So we'll see how it goes.

 Q. You were able to play well here on a course where you haven't played since 2002. Why make a decision to play here at this place after a long layoff?
 SERGIO GARCIA: It just fitted nicely on the schedule. I like the course. In the past I haven't been able to come here and play because unfortunately it just -- this year with the schedule we have it fitted perfectly and earlier it didn't. 
 I'm happy that I can be here. That I can help the tournament and Verizon and everything. So I enjoy it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT