WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 19, 2010
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   LAURA HILL: Sergio, thanks for joining us. Sergio defeated Tim Clark, 2 and 1. You got off to a 2-up lead and then it looked like Tim clawed his way back in, but you were able to close out the match and advance to the quarter finals for the first time. Talk about how things went out there today.
 SERGIO GARCIA: I'm very pleased about that. What pleased me the most is that I finally played better today. I hit the ball nicely. 
 Probably didn't putt it as well as yesterday. But I made a couple of big putts on the last four or five holes.
 I'm thrilled. Tim is always a very difficult player to beat. He's so consistent, and he just never gives up, never gives up. So I was very happy to see the way we came through and we managed to beat him. It's never nice to beat a friend of yours, but one of us has to lose.

 Q. Looking at some of the results that are coming in today, the players who seem to have the most experience in this tournament are prevailing. Is there something about match play, do you need to play it a couple of times to get a feel for the vagaries of it or is that a coincide?
 SERGIO GARCIA: No, I think that's just a coincide. I think that match play is funny, it's just what it is. I said it the first two days, the first two days I could have lost any of the two days because I didn't play great to be able to win. But I somehow stayed there, and David gave me a couple of chances on the first day. And then when he had me under control, he kind of let me get back into it. It's one of those formats that it's like that.
 I'm just happy to have played better today and been able to win on a difficult day.

 Q. Does it aggravate you at all that this tournament has kind of gotten overshadowed by Tiger's stuff this year?
 SERGIO GARCIA: I don't think so. I don't think it's been overshadowed. I think Tiger obviously did what he needed to do. He said what he needed to say. I think he did well. And I think that obviously I think there's still people coming to watch. I thought there was a lot of people out there watching us today. And it was very pleasing to see. 

 Q. First of all, how do you feel about making the quarter finals? You've been at this for a while?
 SERGIO GARCIA: It's great. First time, so couldn't be happier. It's very much, like I said, from the first day, they're all difficult. But as you get on, every match gets tougher. Tomorrow is going to be another tough match against either Luke or Oliver Wilson. 
 I'm looking forward to the challenge. I'm looking forward to hopefully keep playing well and keep moving forward and see where that takes us.

 Q. Just talk about your record at match play, especially in the Ryder Cup, it's tremendous. What is your feeling about this tournament, because it's so odd you can come in here and maybe wind up going home Wednesday night, every day you have to be prepared to pack up and leave. Is there this a tournament you look forward to coming to?
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, I definitely do. I think it's a very nice tournament. But like I said before, match play is that way, you know. Some days you can shoot 1-over par and win your match. And some other days you shoot 6-under and you lose. But, you know, that's the beauty of match play.
 When we don't get the chance of playing it that often, it's actually nice to change once in a while. So I definitely -- I do like this tournament, even though it hasn't been great to me. But, you know, I've always tried to enjoy it as much as possible.

 Q. Does it make it easier or harder to win this tournament when you only have to beat six guys one at a time instead of a whole field over four days?
 SERGIO GARCIA: I think probably if your game is on, it's probably a little easier, because, like you said, you only have to beat six guys or something like that. But that doesn't mean it's easy, you know. Nothing is easy out here. 

 Q. Well done. 
 SERGIO GARCIA: Thanks.

 Q. You said that Tiger did well in what happened -- what he did this morning. Would you mind expounding on that, please?
 SERGIO GARCIA: No, I think he said what he needed to say. And he said what he felt. And, you know, that's pretty much it. I don't see any other thing. 
 Like I said yesterday, I think for me it's water under the bridge. I'm just looking forward to having him back on Tour. I'm actually excited to see him back. So it's good to see that he's doing well and hopefully he gets everything sorted out.

 Q. Your caddie went to school here. 
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, my sister went to school here, too.

 Q. So do you have good restaurant recommendations from them? Any sort of built in --
 SERGIO GARCIA: Well, we rented a house this week, so we've been pretty much cooking at home. We have gone to a couple of restaurants, there's an Italian restaurant, a steak restaurant just a few minutes from here. But it's been pretty calm. We don't get that much time to hang out, you know, after playing and then doing a little bit of work and a little bit of, you know, of working out and things like that. You run out of time. But it's been good. 
 LAURA HILL: Enjoy the weekend. Thank you, good luck. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT