THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 17, 2010
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   SERGIO GARCIA: It definitely was better, yes. I definitely felt like my energy was better out there. I felt like I was a bit happier out there. There's no doubt that the people, the crowds really help here. But I definitely can say that I was feeling calmer, and with a different kind of energy out there.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 SERGIO GARCIA: Definitely, yeah. Yeah, that's where I'd like to get. Today I think it was a step forward. I'm still not saying that it's all done, but it was definitely a step forward, which is better than a step back.  
  
  Q. On the front nine you holed the birdied (Inaudible.)  
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, it definitely was nice, but that's not where I'm trying to get to. The important thing for me is that even after making bogey on 2 or hitting a good drive on 3 and being in the middle of a divot, I didn't get down on myself. Lately it's kind of been a little bit the other way. So it was good to see that even though on a Saturday at an Open Championship with tough conditions, I was still kind of being my old self and trying to enjoy my time out there, which was nice.  
  
  Q. Is that one of the things you're working on is trying to control your emotions?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: It's definitely, yeah, definitely my attitude needs to keep improving. I think that today, like I said before, it was a step forward. But there's still a lot of room for improvement. Hopefully we can keep working on that.   
  
  Q. Outside of the fans, what do you attribute that to? What do you attribute this week and how you're moving up the board and how you're playing?   
 SERGIO GARCIA: Well, I attribute it to my friends, to my family, to the people I'm working with. They're definitely helping. I can kind of talk it out and say what I'm feeling and kind of let it out of myself instead of kind of keeping it inside. That obviously helps.   
 But like I said before, we still need to get better on it.  
  
  Q. Can you kind of pinpoint when you finally looked at yourself and said, this is the way I want to approach it and this is the way I need to approach it to move forward? At what point in this year did that happen?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: Probably last night.  
  
  Q. What was the conversation that you had?   
 SERGIO GARCIA: You don't need to know. But it was people that I care about and people that care about me, and that's the important stuff.   
  
  Q. The fact that you know that you have that kind of support behind you, just that alone, does that help knowing that no matter what happens out there, you still have that?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, definitely. I've always felt very fortunate about the people I'm surrounded with. I think that if you're surrounded by good people, you usually become good people. I've been always very fortunate about that. And sometimes I let myself go and get too caught up in the moment. I think that it's important for me to realise those things, and you know, at the end of the day, try to enjoy what I do, which is playing golf. I've always done it, and unfortunately lately it hasn't been that way. I kind of felt it.  
  
  Q. Do you look at this as day one?   
 SERGIO GARCIA: Hopefully, yes, that would be nice. I think that it was an important day, and I'm looking forward to tomorrow, no matter what happens. But at least try to keep the same kind of attitude and will to obviously do well but without really letting it change myself.  
  
  Q. Was last night a case of them coming to you and saying, this is something that needs to be addressed, or was it you asking for it?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: We've been talking about it for a while. It's probably nice because it was the kind of day where I was really, really angry at myself, and I kind of let it all out, and it kind of made me feel a little better and probably helped me kind of realise things. I'm just hoping that I can keep doing the same things.  
 I still feel like I need a nice rest, but hopefully if the attitude changes a little bit, it should help it.   
  
  Q. Do you think you created a positive attitude with positive results today on the golf course?   
 SERGIO GARCIA: No, like I said before, it has nothing to do with it. I started par-bogey, and there's been days where I've started par-bogey and I was really down, and today I started par-bogey, and on the third hole I hit a great tee shot and you're looking forward to getting that shot back, and I was in a really tiny divot, a really bad lie, and I didn't let it bother me. In the past unfortunately it's been the other way.   
 I think that that probably made me do better later on in the day even with the tough conditions, so that was good to see.  
  
  Q. It looked like your putting was sort of freer. That's been something that you've -- does it kind of all translate, I guess?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, it's tough, though, because under these conditions, you never know what's going to happen. Sometimes you might hit a great putt and you don't even smell the hole, like what happened to me on the second hole. I hit a great putt for par and caught a gust of wind and missed it probably three inches left from about five feet. But sometimes you've got to realise that that's -- if it's meant to happen, it's going to happen. The gust of wind is going to come. It's going to come, and that means that if you don't guess it beforehand, you're meant to miss that putt.   
 I guess it's just the way things are.  
  
  Q. Did you get a surprise the other way and have a condition not going in for you?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: Definitely you do. There's definitely moments where you feel like you hit a shot that's not going the right way or a putt that is going to miss and then the wind pushes it and makes it go in. Yeah, it definitely works both ways.  
  
  Q. Anything today?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: Probably the one on -- the putt on 6. I think if the wind would have kept blowing, it probably would have missed just right, but it kind of slowed down a little bit and made it break, and I made quite a long putt. Yeah, that was probably one of them.  
  
  Q. Has a day of the usual pressure made it easier for you?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: No, the pressure is still going to be there. Don't get me wrong, I'm still trying to do well. But I'm just hoping to do well the right way.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT