WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 18, 2010
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   COLIN MURRAY: Sergio, thank for joining us here in the Accenture Match Play Championship interview room. You got by Anders Hansen today, after David Toms yesterday. If you could start off with a few comments on your round today, and then we'll open it up to questions.   
 SERGIO GARCIA: Obviously very thrilled about getting through to the third round. I don't know, I guess it's just -- it's a funny tournament, this match play, because some years you come here you feel like you're playing unbelievable, and you get beaten in the first or second round. And some years you come here, and you don't feel quite as great and you manage to somehow get around it. So I'm happy about that.   
 But I still need to get a lot better. I need to get rid of some shots that I'm hitting out there. But I'll take what comes.  
  
  Q. Could you just talk about what your mindset was when you fell down 3-down?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: Probably wasn't the greatest. The good thing was that I was 3-down on five, and not 3-down on 13 or 14. So I knew that there were some holes. And if I managed to get something, for feel something, and get something back, kind of change the momentum of the match a little bit. I felt like it wasn't over.   
 And it happened right away on the 6th hole. I hit a bad shot, and it looked like I might lose the hole. I hit a really good chip from there, but still hit it to probably about ten feet. And he had a fairly simple chip and kind of run it by a little bit, caught the slope, and went far away, and missed it and I made mine. And that kind of got me going a little bit.   
 And then I birdied the next, and eagled 8, and got back to all square. It kind of lightened me up a little bit, so that was huge.  
  
  Q. A lot is being made out of the timing of Tiger's announcement. What's your reaction to the timing of his announcement during the middle of this tournament?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: Well, I mean, there's not much that you can say about it. I think it's unfortunate that it happened the same week. But, you know, it's his deal and he's obviously trying to do it the right way. And that's pretty much all I can say about it.  
  
  Q. How interested are you in what he has to say?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: To tell you the truth, I'm not really that interested, because I think for me it's past already. I'm looking forward to seeing him back on TOUR and seeing him playing, that's what we love doing, watching the best player in the world play golf. And other than that, I'm really not worried about the rest.  
  
  Q. How would you describe your experience in this tournament in years past? How would you characterize your play?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: It's like I said before, it's funny how I work sometimes. Like I said, some years you come here and you feel unbelievable, you feel like you're feeling great. You go out and you shoot 6 or 7-under and you lose, and you go home and you think, gee, I'm playing so good and I lost.   
 And some other years you come and you're struggling a little bit and you're trying to find your game, and you kind of getting it in a round, but not in the nicest way and you manage to win a couple of matches.   
 So I know that as you get longer or deeper into the week the matches get tougher. I'm not saying that the first ones are easy, but if the first ones are tough then the next get even tougher. It's going to be a very hard match tomorrow against Timmy. I'm looking forward to it and hopefully I'll be able to play nicely and see what happens.  
  
  Q. Where exactly are you physically? How close to 100 percent? A few minutes ago, you said I've got to get better, does that mean basically healthy-wise or --  
 SERGIO GARCIA: No, I wouldn't say so. I mean, to tell you the truth, I don't feel -- I'm not thinking about the hand when I'm playing, which is a good thing. There is a couple of shots here and there if I get a little steep that I might feel it a little bit. But it doesn't really bother me. Just a little bit bummed there that it doesn't seem to be going away. But fortunately for me I'm not a hand model, so I'll be fine.   
 COLIN MURRAY: Sergio, thanks and good luck tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT