WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 17, 2010
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   SERGIO GARCIA: I knew it was going to be a tough match. I feel like I played pretty decently down the front. I played pretty nicely. And then I made a couple of big errors and he took advantage for that.  
 Fortunately for me I was able to win a couple of holes and hole a key putt to halve that whole and stay 1-up. I'm happy with that.   
  
  Q. Talk about the putt on 16. That was a key there. It's not always the birdies you make, it's sometimes the bogeys you don't make.  
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, definitely that was huge. Because I hit a terrible shot with a 6-iron. He hit a decent shot in the middle of the green, and had about a 45 footer or something like that and 2-putted. I knew I needed to make that putt to stay 1-up and I managed to do that.  
  
  Q. You seem like you're not completely happy with your game today?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: Obviously there were a two or three things on the back nine that I didn't like. And that's something that I need to improve on. I guess we haven't had a lot of time to work on the game during Christmas and everything, but I'm hoping that we improve quickly.   
  
  Q. You got the result.   
 SERGIO GARCIA: Well, I didn't hit a good tee shot. I hit a very nice second shot. It was just a bit left. I needed a longer carry. It went down in that swale. And I did feel like I made a very nice chip after -- obviously that he hit it long. But it was good to be able to hit a decent chip there.   
  
  Q. Do you like the course?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: I feel like my front nine was better. The back nine was a little bit of a struggle. Hopefully we can figure it out.   
  
  Q. I've got to ask you the obligatory Tiger question, are you just glad that it's being addressed after the two and a half month silence?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, it looks like he's going to make a statement on Friday. Yeah, I guess everybody is going to get their answers and, you know -- we'll see. I'm focused on this tournament, here. That's a lot to worry about. I think he'll be okay.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT