COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
January 28, 2010
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   SERGIO GARCIA: It was quite windy.   
  
  Q. Quite?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, I feel like we played decent, hit two or three terrible shots, but other than that, it was a good day.   
 Obviously the course was playing very difficult with this wind, and the firmness of the greens, just a little disappointed we didn't birdie the last. But that's the way it is I guess.  
  
  Q. Most players are saying that wind is pretty treacherous, given the severity of the rough, as well; control is very difficult.   
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, definitely. Hitting good drives is very important. Hitting out of the fairways, if you are struggling off the tee and you are hitting a lot of shots out of the rough, you are not going to have a good time out there.   
 But you know, fortunately for us today, we drove the ball fairly well and you know, we managed to putt a decent round on.   
  
  Q. Is there a marked difference between the two nines here?   
 SERGIO GARCIA: No, I wouldn't say so. I think they are pretty similar. You have some good par 3s on both, and a couple good par 4s and a couple short par 4s, so it's nicely mixed.  
  
  Q. Nice to actually play with Alvaro today as defending champion, fellow countryman?   
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, it's always nice to play with him. He's a friend of mine and very funny guy, so, yeah, we had a good time together.  
  
  Q. Was he talking about last year, as well?   
 SERGIO GARCIA: No, not really. We are trying to focus on today, which was hard enough already.   
  
  Q. Let me focus on something else briefly if I may, but you are hitting from all sorts of places these days, with the track the other day in Abu Dhabi and off the top of the building here; you get about a bit.   
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, you know, it's interesting situations, good things to go through I guess. But then when we get on the course, we try to hit it off the tee and to the fairway and on the green.  
  
  Q. Is it something fun to do, to play in different places?   
 SERGIO GARCIA: It's something different. It's always nice to do something different from what you are used to.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT