VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
October 29, 2009
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. If you can give a quick reaction to both your matches today, how you feel it went. 
 SERGIO GARCÍA: Well, it's unfortunate, but you know, the tournament is over for me. As simple as that. I played very poorly this morning, a match that I probably should have won and I lost it. And this afternoon, I played nicely, and I just couldn't hole a putt. So you mix both of those together, I lost, and I'm out. 

 Q. How do you feel the course was today overall? What's your thoughts on the way it played?
 SERGIO GARCÍA: No, the course played great. I thought it played a little bit tougher this morning, a little bit longer, a little bit more breeze. This afternoon was a little bit calmer. It was firming up a little bit, so you're getting some shorter clubs into the greens. But no, the course played nicely. 
 Unfortunately I just didn't hold the putts I need to hold to win. I only had two options this afternoon; it was either win, or win. And unfortunately I didn't get any of those. 

 Q. What was the atmosphere like out there today with the fans and overall with the first tournament coming to Spain? 
 SERGIO GARCÍA: I thought it was good. I thought a good amount of people was out there. Not only in my group, but in all of the others. 
 So I thought it was good to see. You could see it from some holes that were overlooking some of the other matches. And you know, it's just a shame that I couldn't perform a little bit better to have a chance at least of getting to the semifinals tomorrow. There's nothing I can do now.

 Q. Some people who have a game to get through, might say, I have a bad leg, I'm pulling out. I presume you're not one of those?
 SERGIO GARCÍA: No, I've never done that. If I didn't do that at Carnoustie in '99, why should I do it now, you know. I'm going to play my game. It's still going to be a nice match against Martin. He's a friend much mine, so we'll try to have some fun together, try to play well, and try to get a little bit of confidence for next week. It's a good, testing course. My legs are fine. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT