PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2009
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   Q. Just an opening comment on your round, a 71. 
 SERGIO GARCIA: Well, definitely a good score. I didn't play my best golf, but I managed to get it around. I made a couple of nice birdies, and you know, I didn't make too many mistakes. But still a lot of work to do. I need to be able to feel a little more comfortable and to be able to work the ball a little bit easier and try to get it sorted for tomorrow. 

 Q. If conditions stay the same this afternoon, do you think there's a real low score out there? 
 SERGIO GARCIA: I don't think so. I think that the greens are getting a little firmer, a little crustier, and as the day goes on, they get a little bumpier, so it's tougher to make putts. 
 The course, it's firming up a little bit as the week goes on. It's definitely not playing quite as long but you still have some long holes out there with this little breeze, holes like 12, 1, 4, the par-3 12, and 13. You still have some holes you're hitting long irons into the green, and if you manage to par those and then make a couple of birdies here and there on the shorter ones, then you can put up a decent score but I don't see anybody shooting like a 7- or 8-under this afternoon but I might be wrong, we'll see.

 Q. You must be pretty pleased being 1-under. 
 SERGIO GARCIA: I'm pleased with the score. I'm not pleased the way I hit the ball, but I think that taking into account the way I played today, 1-under is definitely not a bad score. 

 Q. How well do you know Alvaro Quiros? 
 SERGIO GARCIA: Well, we are good friends, so we know each other quite well. 

 Q. He's had a pretty good round. 
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, I think he's made a couple bogeys but he's a very nice player, a wonderful character. He's always smiling. He's got a lot of energy, and if he hits it somehow straight, as far as he hits it, you know, he can really play the game of golf. It's all about trying to put the ball in play, and with his potential and his strength, the course, even a long course like this, becomes quite a bit shorter. So it's good to see him doing well. 

 Q. You're obviously one of the better ball-strikers out here, when you see him swing off the tee, his driver, are you impressed? What's your reaction? 
 SERGIO GARCIA: Oh, definitely. He hits it so far and he doesn't really look like he's hitting it that hard. I mean, obviously he gets a lot of swing speed and clubhead speed, but when you look at it, it's like you don't see a guy that is just going full at it. So it's impressive to see. He gets a great ball flight on it, so hopefully he can keep it going. 

 Q. Any particular memorable drive of you playing with him that stands out? 
 SERGIO GARCIA: He hits a lot of them. 

 Q. Would you like to see the course firm up, sort of create some space? 
 SERGIO GARCIA: Definitely. I think nowadays, you know, there's a lot of ways that you can make a course tougher. I think that obviously adding length is one of them, but it's not -- it's probably not the best one. 
 I think that the way to make golf tougher is by hopefully having good weather, get the course firm, get the greens firm and because of that, then it becomes tougher to hit the greens. It becomes a lot tougher to make birdies, and you're struggling a little bit more. 
 Usually you know, you can see some short courses with small greens and if you get good weather and they get firm, the scoring is quite high, so we'll see if that happens here this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT