THE BARCLAYS
August 28, 2009
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Tough day today but overall where you are on the leaderboard not too bad?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: No, it was very difficult out there. It was hands down, I mean, forget about the PGA, it was the longest course I've played this year, the way it was playing. I mean, I don't know how many 5-, 4- and 3-irons I hit into the green. I hit some woods into the green. I'm hitting good drives.   
 Like on 10, for example, I killed my drive, and I had 220 to the pin and I was hitting 3-wood. So it was just playing really, really long. It's a shame because I still felt like I could have probably shot 2-over and that would have been a great, great score. And unfortunately a couple got away and I tried hard. It's not too bad.  
  
  Q. How are the tees in relation to yesterday?   
 SERGIO GARCIA: They are similar. There's a couple changes here and there. But the thing is, even holes downwind were playing long. And for example, because it was so heavy, the air was so heavy and with the rain and everything, I mean, the 7th hole, we played it from the forward tee and we hit a good drive. We hit 5-iron in and we had 190 yards downwind, where usually I'll be hitting a 7-iron; I was hitting 5-iron downwind. It's a two-club difference downwind. I mean, into the wind, imagine.   
 It's just a difficult day and you had to hang in tough and try to get around it and not let it get away from you, and that's what we tried.   
  
  Q. On 4, was that a case where you came up short?   
 SERGIO GARCIA: No, I hit a bad shot there. No, that was a bad shot.   
 But for example, the sixth hole, 117 yards, hitting a wedge and it flies by the pin and spins back 12 yards. I mean, I usually hit my wedge 140 yards, so imagine I'm hitting 23 yards short, I'm trying to hit a little wedge and still spinning like hell.   
 It was a lot of holes like that. You know, the 8th hole, I mean, it's a good thing -- it's a good thing we didn't play it into the wind, because I had killed a drive, killed a 3-wood and a sand wedge where usually you're trying to reach the hole in two. But I mean, 10, 11, 3-wood into 10; 3-iron into 11, the par 3, just a lot of long, long irons into some of these greens.   
  
  Q. Other than 10, any other 3-woods into par 4s?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: No. But close. I mean, 4-iron into the last. 6-iron into 17, which is not a long hole by any means. Probably would have hit about a 6-iron on 15 and I don't know, it was tough. It was tough out there. I hit 4-iron into two. So it was a hard day but I managed to get through it.   
  
  Q. Are you happy with the way you played?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: Am I happy? No, I'm not going to lie to you. I'm happy about some of the shots I hit. Like I said before, I let a couple get away, a couple bad shots here and there, 12 and 13, stuff like that. But overall, there's not many things you can do. So unfortunately under these conditions, it's easy to hit some bad shots.   
  
  Q. Considering that you've survived the day, where do you expect to be --  
 SERGIO GARCIA: Pretty much. It was pretty much survival mode out there. It was tough. You just had to make sure that you just didn't let it get to yourself, and unfortunately it's the kind of day that you need to make a lot of putts to be able to score, and unfortunately I didn't do that.   
  
  Q. Where do you think you will be at the end of the day? There are not many guys under par right now.   
 SERGIO GARCIA: I think they were telling me there's only one guy under par in the morning round and he wasn't doing much yesterday. So I don't know, I expect to be probably if the day stays like it is or like we had it, I probably expect to be Top 15, Top-12 maybe. We'll see.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT