THE EUROPEAN OPEN
May 28, 2009
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Thoughts after starting with the double-bogey.
 SERGIO GARCIA: I knew I didn't hit that bad of a shot, unfortunately went in the hazard and made double. 
 To tell you the truth, I didn't play that poorly on the front nine. I just didn't really make anything, and I got punished really hard for a couple of shots I missed. 
 Other than that, it was pretty good, and I was just trying to be patient and wait for it and on the front nine, I rolled a couple of putts in, and it couldn't have been better but overall I was hitting it well.

 Q. What sort of challenge does this course represent?
 SERGIO GARCIA: Well, it's playing so different from last year. You have three new tees and the course more than anything is playing a lot softer than it was last year, different wind. A lot of the par 5s are playing totally different than they were last year and you have to get used to it a little bit. 
 If you are driving the ball well, you can score. The rough is thick, so if you are struggling with your driving --
Q. With all of the stories about your break up with Greg Norman's daughter, is that all behind you now?
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, I think it's over, I'm past it, so I'm the one that should worry about it. 

 Q. And you went up to look at Turnberry?
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, I went up on Monday and did a corporate day for ADIDAS. It's looking good, looking very green, a lot of rough. The fairways are fairly narrow, but you know, the course looks very nice. 

 Q. Quite a turnaround from the start?
 SERGIO GARCIA: On the front nine, I pretty much felt like I missed two shots. The tee shot on 10 a little bit, but not that much, and the tee shot on 17. 
 18, I hit a good second shot, and unfortunately it just came out a little soft and plugged in the bunker. 
 I was just trying to stay patient, played good all day, and I just managed to roll a couple of putts in on the back nine. It was nice to make a couple of birdies. 

 Q. Sixty feet? 
 SERGIO GARCIA: I don't know, it must have been -- yeah, it must have been about 18, 20 yards, so yeah, about 60 feet. 
 I hit some really good putts on the front nine. I hit a good putt on 1 that didn't go in and a great putt on 2 that didn't go out, a great putt on 6, burned the edge on 7 and hit a good putt on 9. 
 You know, it was good to make a couple, even though you know, I probably feel like I deserved a couple more. 

 Q. Did you take a penalty drop? You had a long look, called the referee over, or did you know where to go? 
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, because I mean, it was playable. It was definitely playable. It was just in a bit of grass, and I couldn't identify it. So I wanted to make sure that I could -- because I know the rule changed, I think last year, that now you can check it on the hazard, it's not like before. It was just inside. 
 And then I don't know how, it was quite a lot of grass, I don't know how I went underneath it. 

 Q. Did you move it a couple of inches? 
 SERGIO GARCIA: No, I moved it about three feet. But I never thought I was going to be able to go underneath the ball. And then the second one was probably lying worse, and you know, from then it was to the point of not turning back. I was going to hit it until it came out. 

 Q. And you're experienced enough not to think double-bogey, bad day ahead of me. 
 SERGIO GARCIA: I mean, you can't go that way. If you start, you're obviously a little disappointed, but I thought, well, obviously we got rid of our bogeys early, let's not make anymore. If we make five or six birdies, we can still shoot a decent round. Unfortunately there was a couple more but it was a good, solid round. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT