WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 19, 2009
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Why put this event on your schedule?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: It wasn't the first event. That's the way it worked this year. So, I -- I mean I played here before. I knew how well they treat you. You know, I wanted to that take this week off, I couldn't.  
  
  Q. What do you remember about your time here?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: Not a lot of things. I remember a couple of things. I remember Joe Ogilvie won. I played good. That's pretty about it.  
  
  Q. What do you like about this golf course?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: It's a good golf course. It will be nice to get the greens firm but, you know, with the bent grass and the weather we have, it's tough, you know, because you can lose them very quickly. It looks like the fairways, if it doesn't rain, are not going to play very fast. But the greens are going to be holding. So, we'll see. It's probably going to be low scoring so we'll see.  
  
  Q. Do you like the limit offensive style of golf that maybe is demanded here?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: Do I like it? If I'm playing well I love it, yeah, but at the moment the way I'm playing, I don't think it's best for me.  
  
  Q. 115th in the points. How do you feel about your position? Do you think much about it?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: I don't feel about it. I come here to improve on that but if I don't, no worry.  
  
  Q. You don't sound real happy about your game right now.  
 SERGIO GARCIA: I'm not.  
  
  Q. Can you turn it around?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: We'll see. Unfortunately, I don't know. I'll go to the teacher. We'll see.  
  
  Q. What have been the reasons for that it?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: Usually bad shots. That's the way it works. Bad swings.  
  
  Q. And then?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: More bad swings.  
  
  Q. What do you think is going on?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: Well, that's what I'm trying to figure out. If I knew, I would be playing well. So I'm trying to work on it and see if I can figure it out.  
  
  Q. Is it tough being optimistic right now? It sounds like you're really frustrated.  
 SERGIO GARCIA: I am. I'm not playing well. I'm just -- I'm not enjoying it so I guess it's just a matter of keep working on it and hopefully get good and see where we go from there.  
  
  Q. Have you ever felt like you've been in this position before and what turned it around?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yes, definitely. Just work. It is what it is. You work on it and just get better. There's no other thing that you can do.  
  
  Q. Are you going to play more or less the rest of the year?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: I'm going to play less.  
  
  Q. After you leave the States?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: My schedule is not going to change in Europe. I'll probably play a little less here, though.  
  
  Q. Can you talk a little bit about when you first won before and your schedule then and how you do, as most veteran players do, how they are more picky and choosey about where they play?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: No, it's not that. I mean you -- when you're a roll player like I consider myself, you can't go around playing 25 events here and 20 in Europe. Then you'll die. It's just impossible.   
 You can do it for a couple seasons but then you get to the next and you're destroyed before the season started so you try to mix it up in a way that you get to play a good amount in both Tours and something that is going to fit you.   
 It's going to allow you to play some weeks and then rest some weeks and try to start out the best way possible but, you know, that's -- I think that's what we all try to do.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT