DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 30, 2009
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 66 is a fantastic score but almost looked like one that got away; you hit the ball so beautifully. 
 SERGIO GARCIA: I did. I've got to say, I'm really excited about this year, not only because of the way I'm hitting it. But this new driver I have, the R9 driver, it's just amazing how well it goes. I'm not only hitting it straight, but I'm hitting farther than I was before it just makes the course -- if you're hitting the ball well it makes the course easier, a lot of shorter clubs into the greens. 
 Unfortunately, as you all saw, I missed a couple of putts here and there, but I felt like I played very solid. I felt like I was in control the whole time, and it's just a shame that I couldn't be probably two or three shots better.

 Q. I know you feel your putting is improving; is it frustrating when you are hitting the ball well and not taking advantage of it to that extent?
 SERGIO GARCIA: I'm going to tell you one thing. Even though I didn't make a lot of putts, I felt like today I was moving forward. I felt like at least I knew exactly what I was doing. This morning, I didn't feel like I was striking the ball well with my putter. I made a couple of putts, a couple of bad putts here and there, and at least this afternoon, I knew a little bit more what was going on. Unfortunately I pushed a couple putts, short putts and missed them, but other than that, I felt like I hit a lot of good putts that didn't go in.

 Q. In your last eight starts, you have a win and three seconds, two or three other Top-10s, incredible run; is this the best you've ever played consistently?
 SERGIO GARCIA: I think so. I think my whole game is in good shape and it's showing in that. The weeks that I don't score the way I should score, I'm finishing fifth, sixth, seventh. The weeks that things happen a little bit more to me, I'm out there to win the tournament. So I've just got to keep doing the same things, and we'll be in good shape. 

 Q. You have a late tee time tomorrow, give you a chance to work with it on the putting green?
 SERGIO GARCIA: I will a little bit. I'll probably go to the gym early in the morning and kind of burn a little bit of steam you might say. Yeah, I'll work a little bit and probably hit a couple of putts. At least I felt like I was really moving forward. I felt like my stroke was getting better, and that's the important thing for me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT