THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 4, 2009
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Your thoughts on the course this year?  
 SERGIO GARCÍA: It looks good. It's a little different than last year. Obviously this year they overseeded the greens. The course looks in great shape and looking forward to playing it.   
 Obviously it's a tough course, we know that, and you have to be very patient throughout the week.   
  
  Q. You have played in these Pro-Ams quite a bit now, have you ever gotten a tip from any of the amateurs that you've played with or anything fun that you've seen out of them a little bit?  
 SERGIO GARCÍA: Not really. Sometimes they tell you what not to do.   
 No, usually they are good fun, a good group of people. For example, today, they played great, and it was good fun. But no, they are enjoyable. Pro-Ams are a lot easier than some people might think.   
  
  Q. What interested you in playing in the Honda Classic this year and coming to play here?   
 SERGIO GARCÍA: Well, I played here last year and I enjoyed the course. I think the course, it's a really good course to play on, and to get something going in your swing and your game.   
 Obviously it fits on the schedule perfectly, so both things kind of worked perfectly for it.   
  
  Q. Everybody is looking for a big, big year out of you this year. Do you feel that coming, too? You've obviously built up a lot of momentum here lately.   
 SERGIO GARCÍA: Well, I hope so. I'm looking forward to it. I had a good season last season, and I'm looking forward to keep going in the same direction. It's never easy to maintain the level, but you know, that's what we practice for and that's what we are going to try.  
  
  Q. Are you going to shake anything up in your schedule leading up to the Masters?   
 SERGIO GARCÍA: What do you mean?   
  
  Q. Do anything differently leading up to it?   
 SERGIO GARCÍA: Differently than?   
  
  Q. Than what you've done in the past.   
 SERGIO GARCÍA: Well, I'm going to play Houston this year. I heard that they set up the course nicely there the week before the Masters, so looking forward to see how that works, and hopefully I'll play good at the Masters.  
  
  Q. '96, going into the British Open, do you remember Tom Lehman and holding the Jug?   
 SERGIO GARCÍA: That was great, as a 16-year-old, knowing that one of your dreams is to win that championship, it was like a dream come true. I was more afraid of not dropping it than anything else.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT