VOLVO MASTERS
October 30, 2008
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MARÍA ACACIA: Very good start, 3-under, not bad. 
 SERGIO GARCÍA: Yeah, thank you very much. Yes, I think it was a good, solid start. Tough day on a very difficult golf course. Wind was blowing quite hard and was all over the place. I managed to hit the ball quite decent and gave myself some good birdie chances. 
 You know, the greens I missed, I hit some good chips and gave myself some good par putts at it. Putted nicely, overall, it was a nice start for the week. 

 Q. On such a day on a tough golf course in very tough conditions, are you a little bit surprised that Søren is three ahead of you? 
 SERGIO GARCÍA: Well, there's always going to be -- there's always going to be one guy that is going to come out and he's going to do everything right and, you know, everything is going to go his way. It happens every year, so it shouldn't be any different this year. 
 So, no, I'm not surprised. I think I played with him last week, and I think he's playing very nicely. He's had a pretty solid year, and he played very well here last year, too. Obviously he's carrying on that momentum from last year.

 Q. Would you have taken 3-under before you went out this morning?
 SERGIO GARCÍA: Definitely, yeah. Like I always say, on this course, even when it's calm, anything around even par is a good round. You know how tricky it can be, so I'm happy with the score. 

 Q. Did it feel better than 3-under in the conditions? 
 SERGIO GARCÍA: Did it feel better -- probably, could have I shot lower? Difficult. I don't think so, with the conditions and everything. 
 This course is funny. I felt like I played well. I felt like I hit a lot of good shots, at least a lot of shots the way I wanted, and I think I still managed to hit probably nine of ten greens, so that's the way this course is, and just got to realise it and fight hard. 

 Q. Where was the wind from, and on what holes or on what shots was it particularly difficult? 
 SERGIO GARCÍA: Well, for example, it changed quite a bit on 6 on the par 3. We're supposed to play down on the right and when we hit the ball, instead of drifting left, it kind of drifted right. 
 You know, 7, it was kind of moving a little bit, and 9. Then it seemed to become a little bit more consistent. But it was changing a lot. 
 Like 15, I never thought I could hit it over the green with a 6-iron like I did on 15, because the wind was supposed to be left-to-right, maybe a little bit of help, and it was 218 yards or something like that. 
 And it's one of those things that when these kind of conditions come around, you've got to hit the right shot and get lucky to hit it at the right time, so the wind does what you think it's doing. 

 Q. Do you know what direction it was blowing from?
 SERGIO GARCÍA: I think it was blowing west/northwest pretty much all day. It was between west/northwest and west/southwest. 

 Q. Is that an unusual wind? 
 SERGIO GARCÍA: It is. We used to play in it the other way. We used to play 11 into the wind, 17 downwind, and we played it the absolute opposite way. We hit 5-iron in on 11 and hit it on the back of the green, and hit driver, 4-iron sand wedge on 17. 
 So it's a bit unusual but it's not the first time we play it like this. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT