COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
January 24, 2009
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Disappointment on the last hole, but you must be pleased that you're going in the right direction, and you made great progress.   
 SERGIO GARCÍA: Yes, it's disappointing, because I hit such a good tee shot on the last and just got a little bit of a mud ball. Hit a good second. The ball just went exactly the opposite way I wanted to go. You know, it's one of those things; it would have been nice to at least make a putt to save par.   
 Yeah, did I make a good move and I felt like I played very nicely today and made a lot of good putts. Unfortunately there were two or three putts which could have gone in but unfortunately didn't. We'll see what Louis finishes at and have another good one tomorrow.   
  
  Q. I was going to ask you how you deal with something like that on the last, but you just answered it, really: You've already moved on in your mind and talking about the good things.   
 SERGIO GARCÍA: There's nothing really you can do it about it. If I would have hit a bad shot, then you probably can get a little bit more angry at yourself.   
 But I didn't feel like I hit a bad shot. It just was a little bit of mud on the right side of the ball, and we were hoping it wasn't going to affect, and it did. You know, unfortunately you ended up in the water and then I didn't hit the best of putts to finish. That's the way it goes.  
  
  Q. But you've been steady and consistent this week, and we know you had a good round in the final round this week; do you feel there's something spectacular out there for you on Sunday?  
 SERGIO GARCÍA: I hope so. I definitely feel like I'm playing well enough to do it, so I hope that I can go out there tomorrow and play like I did today, hole some good putts here and there and have a chance. We'll see. It looks like the guys on top are playing very nicely, too, and I have a good friend leading in Alvaro, so I'm hoping that he does, too.   
  
  Q. As we said to Lee Westwood, you're more experienced than they are.   
 SERGIO GARCÍA: Yes, we are but at the end of the day they are all good players. They have won before and he's won before twice, so he knows what he has to do, and I know what I have to do.   
 We are both going to give it our best and see what happens at the end of the day.   
  
  Q. Seeing what Adam Scott did last year, shooting 61 last year, and knowing a low score is possible; you want to win this one, don't you?  
 SERGIO GARCÍA: Yeah, there is a possibility and you have to play really, really well and you pretty much have to make everything. It depends on what day we get. If it's a little breezy like today, function manage to shoot around 65, 66, something like that, you still have a chance.   
 We'll see what happens. There's still a long ways to go.  
  
  Q. You mentioned Quiros, a good friend of yours, what sort of character is he?   
 SERGIO GARCÍA: He's a great character. He's a great guy, wonderful and very funny. He's always cracking jokes and good friend of not only me but all of the Spanish guys. He's a hell of a player. Really, really excited for him to be playing well and I just hope that he has a couple more good weeks and gets into the Match Play.   
  
  Q. Seems to hit it miles.   
 SERGIO GARCÍA: Yeah, he hits it very, very far. It's actually amazing how far he hits it, but he hits it pretty straight, too, which is good.  
  
  Q. A good year for Spain last year in all sports; yourself included. What are we going to see from Spain this year?  
 SERGIO GARCÍA: Well, I hope more of the same. We'll see. It just the beginning of the year. But it would be nice to keep that same line going like we did last year with Rafa and the Spanish football team and golf and everybody that did well. Hopefully we can keep going the same way.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT