THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
September 28, 2008
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DOUG MILNE: We'd like to thank Sergio Garcia for joining us for a few minutes here at THE TOUR Championship presented by Coca-Cola. Sergio, obviously not the outcome you had wanted today, but nobody would disagree that there was not an incredible amount of competitive fire out there amongst all of you, yourself included. 
 Just a couple comments. Out there you had mentioned that you didn't feel committed today. Maybe if you could just elaborate on that. 
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, just really disappointing. I felt like, for whatever reason, I struggled the first probably nine, ten holes. I don't know why, because I've been playing nicely, and it shouldn't be any different. But I just didn't commit to my shots the way I should have, and then I paid the price. 
 Then there's a positive thing, that from 11 on I played pretty strong and hit a good amount of good shots and hit some good putts, made a couple, and then a couple that looked good that didn't go in. 
 But unfortunately on the day I came up too short. 

 Q. It looked like you were having a little trouble getting the speed of the putts down maybe on that front nine. A little disgusted with yourself leaving some putts short?
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, but it was all commitment. But it wasn't just the putts. I mean, it was -- I didn't drive the ball I way I usually drive it. I didn't hit some of the iron shots the way I usually hit them. 
 So it was -- I'm not going to stand here and say, you know, if I would have made this putt or that putt. No, it's not that. I'm really happy the way my putting has been going. 
 I just, you know, lacked a bit of commitment today. You know, the freedom that I had, that I've been having with every part of my game, today early on it wasn't there. I was holding on a little bit, and it shouldn't be that way. You should fire away and know that the ball is going to go where you want it to go and not hope that the ball is going to go where you hope it's going to go. 
 So, you know, that's pretty much it.

 Q. Early in the round it seemed like you were spending a lot of time in the rough and bunkers and having to get up-and-down pretty much every hole, but after a while you had a couple putts go in. 
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, that's what I just said. 

 Q. I know you know Camilo pretty well. That's two in a row for him, and he's been a guy that everybody has been waiting to break out for a while. It looks like his confidence is about 11 on a 10 scale right now. He's probably sad to see the season ending. Good player. 
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, we all knew he was a good player. There's no doubt that the win at the BMW, I think it's made him go one step higher, which is good to see. It's good to see him becoming the player he can become, so that's great. I'm obviously very happy for him. He's a good friend of mine. 
 And his man (Gary Matthews) on the bag is a good friend of mine and my caddie (Glen Murray), so we're thrilled for them. But at the same time, I'm still disappointed that I didn't win.

 Q. What is going to be your schedule? You said something about outside about you're going to take a rest for a little while. Are you then going to start in Europe again?
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah. I'm going to rest for three weeks, and then I have three tournaments in Europe, then in Spain, one in China. Then I'll rest for a couple weeks and I'll go to South Africa to play Sun City, and that's pretty much the end of my year. 

 Q. Just from a fan perspective, everybody was kind of grousing and complaining coming into this week that a lot of the electricity was gone because Vijay had nailed down the $10 million. But you had a putt on the 18th hole in regulation for $4.26 million. 
 SERGIO GARCIA: Really? 

 Q. Yes. 
 SERGIO GARCIA: Too bad (laughter). 

 Q. And it ended up being a pretty good shootout on Sunday. For what was supposed to be kind of leftovers, it ended up being a pretty good show. 
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, not the one I expected, but I let everybody come back into the game. They played well. I didn't perform the way I should have performed early on, and you know, I made it a little bit tougher on myself. 
 I don't want to take anything away from Camilo. I think he played an awesome round. To shoot 66 today it was great. But I still felt like I let it go a little bit. 

 Q. Could you talk about your tee shot at the first playoff hole, and also the lie that you had following that shot?
 SERGIO GARCIA: It was just a bad 4-iron. Just fanned it open and hit it right. You know, and then I thought I hit a better second shot. It just came out a little softer than I thought, and I don't know, tried to make a chip, but it was just quite grassy and it just came out dead. That was about it. 
 DOUG MILNE: If you would run us through your birdies on 12 and 15, just give us some clubs. 
 SERGIO GARCIA: 12, I hit 4-iron off the tee and hit a sand wedge from 132 to about 15 feet.
 And then on 15, hit a good drive, hit 7-iron just short of the green, chipped to about two and a half feet.
 DOUG MILNE: Sergio Garcia, thank you for joining us. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT