NEDBANK GOLF CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY GARY PLAYER
November 8, 2018
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 8-under today, how did it feel today?
SERGIO GARCIA: Obviously felt great.  I rolled the ball nicely.  I made some good putts here and there.  One of those rounds where things kind of happened nicely to me.  I think I played very smart.
Probably wasn't swinging unbelievably, but I kept it under control.  I kept the ball in play all the time, which is difficult to do here.  And you know, I managed to guess some of the winds here right; that is very, very difficult, and you know, when you can do that here, it's nice to be able to shoot a score like I did.
Q. You've got a golf course here in Sun City that you don't need to overpower.  It looks like you've got that little slider from left-to-right on a leash.
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, it's what I'm feel comfortable with.  I hit a couple draws here and there but more than anything, just the shot that I'm feeling comfortable with.
Like I said earlier, it's very important to keep the ball in play as much as possible here and that's what I was trying to do when I didn't feel comfortable with the driver, because if it got too narrow, I hit something less than that and tried to play the hole maybe a little bit tougher and realise those things.  It worked out well.
Q. You're fresh off a win at Valderrama.  In places, there's a bit of that here.  Do you see that, especially around the greens, and being a second-shot golf course, a little bit of Valderrama?
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, definitely.  I mean, the greens are a little bit bigger than Valderrama here and they have trickier spots to put the pins.  In a way, you can see a little bit of that because it's a very much position kind of golf course.
Obviously I've done well at Valderrama for a few years, and I've managed to do that well here in the past.  So hopefully we can keep going like today.
Q. A 64, you must be very pleased with that today.
SERGIO GARCIA: Definitely.  Very, very excited and very pleased about the round.  This is not a golf course that plays easy when it's a little bit breezy like it was today.  When it swirls, it's even tougher.
I managed to keep the ball in play nicely.  I hit a lot of greens, which is important to do here with the little spots that you can put the pins in, and I managed to roll some nice putts.
You know, it was a good combination of the whole game.
Q. Good putts on 9, and 7 and 11, as well.
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, definitely, they are a little bit of bonus.  Obviously they are not the kind of putts that you expect to make many, but when you give yourself a lot of chances, obviously your possibilities of making them are a little bit bigger and I was able to roll in three or four really nice putts.
Q. Lowest opening round you've had on this golf course since it was a European Tour event, and a four-shot lead equals the biggest this year on The European Tour.  Records all over the place.
SERGIO GARCIA: It's nice, but it's still the first day.  There's still a lot of golf to be played and a lot of tough days to come around.  Obviously it's nice to start like that, I'm not going to lie, but there's still a lot of golf to be played.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT