THE RYDER CUP
September 21, 2008
Sergio Garcia
Anthony Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. First of all, you were so much in the moment you didn't realize you had won the match, huh?
 ANTHONY KIM: You can never underestimate Sergio; obviously he has a great Ryder Cup record. I was trying to keep playing, keep my nose to the grindstone and keep grinding away.

 Q. When you saw that you were going to be first out and playing against Sergio who has such a great record in this event, what were your thoughts? 
 ANTHONY KIM: Well, I was welcoming the challenge. Sergio is a friend of mine, a great player, and I've looked up to him for a long time, so I have a tremendous amount of respect. I wanted to come out here and give the fans what they wanted to see.

 Q. Have you ever had more fun on a golf course?
 ANTHONY KIM: Never. I got chills up my spine the whole day today, and I'm loving every minute of it.

 Q. How do you think this changes you, this experience? You were already an accomplished golfer, a young one, but will this have an impact on do you think the rest of your career, this experience?
 ANTHONY KIM: Absolutely. I wouldn't trade this for $10 million. This has been an experience of a lifetime. I'm going to draw back on things that happened this week and the friendships I've made. It was all in all a great experience.
 This is the most exciting day I've ever had. I'm so excited to be here in Kentucky and winning the Ryder Cup.

 Q. Is this the best day of your golfing life?
 ANTHONY KIM: Best day of my golfing life so far.

 Q. Were you surprised they put you out number one?
 ANTHONY KIM: We talked about this earlier. I welcomed it, and it was a great day.

 Q. How about you and Garcia, though? It seemed to be bristling a little bit between the two of you, not that you were chatting too much to each other. What was that like? 
 ANTHONY KIM: Well, Sergio and I are good friends and I have a tremendous amount of respect for him. He's a great player and a great guy. But out there, we're out there to do business, and we battled all day, and now we can start being friends again.

 Q. Sergio, obviously Captain Faldo sent you out for a reason in the first match, but you ran into a buzz saw today. Anthony Kim played really well. Did that surprise you?
 SERGIO GARCIA: I've played with him a couple times and I know what he's capable of. I feel like I started well, and unfortunately just a couple of misses. 7 and 8 were huge, and then after that when it looked like I was trying to start to get back into it, that short miss on 11 kind of put the dagger on me.

 Q. I've seen you play a lot of golf. How are you feeling? Are you feeling your best? 
 SERGIO GARCIA: You know, today it was a hard day because I got -- like you said, I played against a guy that played awesome. It's hard when you're in those kind of situations, but unfortunately I just couldn't get anything right today. I feel like I had a good chance, but I just couldn't get anything right. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT