THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
September 28, 2008
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Sergio, your second playoff loss of the FedExCup. So very close. Your thoughts?   
 SERGIO GARCIA: Well, that's the way it is. I just didn't play well enough today. You know, I doubted myself too much early on and it cost me.   
 Then when I started getting it back a little bit it was just a little too late, and unfortunately just hit a bad shot on the playoff. That's what it is.  
  
  Q. What was your club on the playoff hole?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: 4-iron, the same one I hit on the -- yeah, I just didn't put a good swing on it.   
  
  Q. Camilo Villegas is a good friend of yours. When it was Vijay Singh in the last playoff loss, it doesn't make it any easier, does it?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: Well, I guess it makes the sour taste a little less sour, but it's still sour. I mean, I'm working hard to put myself in that position and trying to win championships.   
 Unfortunately I lost probably three hard ones late in the year and it's a bit disappointing, but the only thing you can do is move on. There's always next year, I guess.  
  
  Q. This is the last time we're going to see you in the States for some time. When you look back at the year, the win at THE PLAYERS Championship, so close at the PGA. When you look back at the year, how would you rate this 2008?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: It was a good year. It could have been a great year, but it was a very solid year. Obviously I see a lot of positives coming out of this year, which is great.   
 There's still things that I have to work on, but it's a pretty positive year, and I'm looking forward to what the future holds.  
  
  Q. Is there any momentum or anything that comes out of the year that you take into next year?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: The only thing I'm taking out of this year is rest. That's what I need. The year is over.   
  
  Q. It seems like you're still making progress, still improving in all parts of your game.   
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, definitely. When I'm on and I know what I'm doing and my head is in the right place, I can be quite good, with all due respect.   
 But sometimes I just seem to have a hard time committing to some of the shots, and it shouldn't be that way.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT