BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 7, 2008
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Just overall impressions, for a little while you had a chance in this thing and then today was a little bit more difficult? 
 SERGIO GARCIA: No, I just didn't play well enough this week. Obviously it's been a tough run and a lot of weeks out there and trying to win. You know, we got one day off and then we had to catch up this week. The course was very wet, it was very heavy on our legs, and obviously just a little bit tired towards the end of the week. 
 You know, I would have loved to play a little better and putt a little better and score a little better, but unfortunately I didn't, so I'm looking forward to my resting.

 Q. How are you going to spend this week off? Are you going home?
 SERGIO GARCIA: No, it's too much. I'm trying to rest, so I didn't want to go all the way back to Spain and then come back only for one week and be in the Ryder Cup. If it was any other tournament I'd probably do it, but I think Ryder Cup is too important to do that.

 Q. So you'll be in Florida?
 SERGIO GARCIA: I don't know, I'll see. I'm going to go visit some friends.

 Q. Are you going to practice or take the week off?
 SERGIO GARCIA: No, I'll practice a little bit but towards the end of the week. I need to take at least three or four days off, just relax and make sure that I get my batteries fully charged for Valhalla. 

 Q. How is the desire to win the Ryder Cup different this year than it was say in '02, coming off the loss at Brookline? 
 SERGIO GARCIA: It's no different, no different. The desire is always there, it's always the same. We are always trying our hardest, and that's all we can do. If you try your hardest and somebody does a little better than you, you can ask yourself for more. I think we're all looking forward to it, looking forward to the challenge. We know it's going to be tough, but at the same time, you know, it's a good challenge and we're going to try to raise our game for it.

 Q. After you've won three in a row, you want to make it four in a row, and if you've won four in a row you want to make it five?
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, and usually after five you want to make it six. That's usually how it works.

 Q. What are your thoughts about the format of this championship now? It seems like a lot of wind is going to go to the balloon and Vijay seems like he's pretty much there in terms of the number of people, the number of events, the whole set of circumstances, the FedExCup?
 SERGIO GARCIA: Well, I think, like we said, it's only the second year, so the TOUR and the players and the board and everybody, they're trying to find the best way of making it as interesting as possible. Obviously any time you get a guy, like it happened last year, that wins two and finishes third in the other one, and then a guy that wins two and does well in the other couple, it's going to be tough to make it close unless somebody goes second, second, win, win. It's tough to get it, but I think they're all working on it. Every year it seems to get a little bit more interesting, and I'm sure that we'll find the final tweak here and there and make it good for everybody. 

 Q. Would you suggest either narrowing the field or --
 SERGIO GARCIA: No, I think we have plenty of people trying to figure it out, so you don't want any -- you only want the smartest ones to try to figure it out. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT