THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
September 26, 2008
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   SERGIO GARCIA: The pins were a little bit more gentle today, a little bit easier. Not easy, but a little bit -- maybe not as tough.   
 I played well. I got off to a better start than yesterday and got on a nice roll on the front nine. Shot 5-under on the front nine, and then had some -- a couple good opportunities on the back, but I didn't manage to make them and then birdied 17 and unfortunately bogeyed the last.   
  
  Q. Does playing well this week and kind of getting back into it kind of get the taste of last week out of your mouth?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: No, it doesn't.  
  
  Q. Does it help to know you're playing well again to get that feeling back?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: I know I've been playing well all year. I didn't play that poorly last week. You know, I think we just ran into a team that was playing extremely well and things weren't really happening.   
 They were making a lot of putts when they had to make them, and unfortunately we weren't. When you don't get anything going, playing in a Ryder Cup and playing match play, it's tougher, because you know that you need to win a hole here or there. If you have a chance and you don't make it and things like that, it kind of puts you under a lot of pressure.  
 I felt like I hit a lot of good quality shots last week and I've been hitting some good shots here this week, too, and just rolling the putter a lot better.  
  
  Q. Looks like you and Anthony tomorrow. Kind of your thoughts on last Sunday?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: That's the past. You know, this is a different event. This is a different tournament. I've got to go out there tomorrow -- he's playing very well, so it's going to be tough, but I've got to go out there tomorrow and hopefully keep playing well like I've been doing the last probably 30 holes or so and see if I can be good enough to beat him this week. Well, him and everybody else.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT