DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 31, 2008
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Sergio, 3-under par 68, do you feel like that was as high as you could have shot today? 
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, it was a different day, though. It was tough. It was much windier. The greens were very, very firm today. You know, obviously I hit some good shots on the back nine and some good putts. I probably felt like I deserved a couple more, but on the other hand, it's not a bad round.

 Q. You had a tough lie over there on 17. How is the wrist, any problems?
 SERGIO GARCIA: No, it's okay. You know, I just hurt it a little bit obviously when I hit because it was quite thick, but it was fine. It didn't hurt me at all on 18.

 Q. You've had such a good attitude this summer. What do you attribute that to?
 SERGIO GARCIA: Probably getting older. Just experience, I guess. I'm obviously a lot more confident with my game, with myself, and that's always nice to see. You know, when you're feeling good, obviously even if things don't go right, you're not as worried. 

 Q. Did you hear who Captain Faldo picked for the European Tour?
 SERGIO GARCIA: I did, yeah.

 Q. What do you think of that?
 SERGIO GARCIA: Poulter and Casey, you know, obviously both great players. Both are going to bring a lot to the team. Some of us were thinking maybe Clarke would get the pick or maybe a guy like Carl Pettersson, but you know, I think that everybody played hard to try to get into that team, and obviously Casey and Poulter are going to be good assets for the team. 

 Q. So you were surprised like most of us who thought that Darren was a lock, but you never know and obviously it's the captain's choice?
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, obviously he's -- it's a tough decision, but I don't think he could really go wrong with whoever he picked, because no matter who he picked, it was going to be a good pick. You know, they were all going to bring something to the team, and you know, obviously, yeah, I thought maybe Darren was going to be one of them. I was pretty sure Paul Casey was going to be the other one. But you know, I think we're all looking forward to it and we're all happy that both Ian and Paul are on the team. 

 Q. Is the wrist okay?
 SERGIO GARCIA: It's fine. 18 was fine. 

 Q. More good play out of you. This has been a nice streak that you've been on for a couple weeks now. 
 SERGIO GARCIA: You sound surprised.

 Q. I'm not surprised, I'm complimenting you. 
 SERGIO GARCIA: I said you sound surprised. Obviously it's nice. It's nice to play well. It's nice to hit good putts. It would have been nice to see a couple of -- at least a couple of the ones on the back nine to fall instead of rolling over the edges. But you know, it was a good, solid day. It wasn't an easy day out there today. There was a lot of danger around us, and with this wind, it got a little bit tougher and with the firmness of the greens. But overall pretty solid round and I have a chance tomorrow.

 Q. Are you surprised by the picks?
 SERGIO GARCIA: Was I surprised? Yes and no. I mean, I pretty much knew it was probably going to be between -- two picks between maybe four or five guys at the most, so I was thinking obviously Darren, Ian, Paul and maybe Carl Pettersson. I thought Paul was pretty much a lock. And because of the way Darren has been playing lately, I thought maybe he would get the other one. 
 But obviously Ian is a good player. He's played well in the summer. Unfortunately with everything that's been going on, he's felt it a little bit these past couple weeks. But he's a great asset for the team. He's done well at the Ryder Cups. He's feisty, just the way we like it, and we know he can show us what he's got when we need him. 
 So I think they're both good picks, and we're looking forward to it.

 Q. Without Darren do you see yourself having a different role in the Ryder Cup?
 SERGIO GARCIA: No, I think we're all the same. We've all got to be the same way like we've been in the past. Just be a team and make sure that we all play for each other, for everybody else.

 Q. Kind of a changing of the guard, I guess, without Monty there this time? 
 SERGIO GARCIA: Well, it's a shame. You know that obviously Monty has done so well at the Ryder Cup, but unfortunately for us he just hasn't been playing that great lately. It's hard to -- as a captain it's a huge risk. Even though it's Monty, it's a huge risk to pick a guy that is not playing or hasn't been playing his best and hope that he plays his best at the Ryder Cup. If it goes that way, he's a hero; if he plays badly, then everybody will kill him. So I think he just went with what he felt was probably the best for the team, and we all respect that.

 Q. What do you think of your chances here tomorrow?
 SERGIO GARCIA: I feel like I'm playing well. Obviously we'll see what the weather brings us. If the day is like today, you're going to have to be very patient out there. It's going to be tough. But I'm looking forward to the challenge, and hopefully I can play well like I've been playing and give myself another good shot at it. 

 Q. Have you played with Camilo before in practice rounds?
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, plenty, yeah. I've played plenty of practice rounds.

 Q. He's obviously got all the shots. 
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, definitely. We all know how good of a player he is. He's still young, so obviously we all feel like with the chances he's had, he probably should have won maybe once or twice by now. But it's not easy out there. There's a lot of guys trying, and it happens to all of us. He's going to have a chance tomorrow, and we'll see what happens.

 Q. What would it mean to you to win this tournament after coming so close last week?
 SERGIO GARCIA: It would be great, but even if I don't, it's still going to be a good, solid week, having a chance to win it. This is what we practice for. Obviously we're trying to win, but if we don't, at least have a shot at it. 

 Q. What do you think of Camilo's 63 today? It didn't seem like a possible score at the start of the day. 
 SERGIO GARCIA: Obviously I thought it was going to be tough. I thought today maybe shoot 66, 65 was a great round. Obviously I didn't really see a 63 towards the afternoon. Obviously in the morning the greens were a little bit softer and it was a little bit easier to shoot it. But you know, obviously he played nicely and must have made a couple putts coming in. So that's good. 

 Q. Do you have a score in mind?
 SERGIO GARCIA: One less than the guy who comes in second. 

 Q. Ernie said the wind is going to cause the leaders to play more conservatively. Are you one of those guys, or are you one of the guys who's going to look forward to that happening to others?
 SERGIO GARCIA: We'll see what happens tomorrow. We might come here and it's all calm. Obviously the greens, they're probably going to be similar to today, so they're going to be firm, and it's going to be tough because of some of the pin positions. We'll see. Obviously if the wind goes like this, it's going to be harder for all of us, and you've got to be patient out there, you've got to pick your spots, like I did today, and we'll see. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT