THE BARCLAYS
August 21, 2008
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   SERGIO GARCIA: Obviously I didn't start the way I wanted. Then I played good from then on, after the front nine. Unfortunately a little distraction on my second shot on 18 and I backed away. I guess I ended up making a good putt. 

 Q. What did you think when you saw the 62 on the leaderboard?
 SERGIO GARCIA: Doesn't matter. If the weather stays the way it's supposed to, this course -- this afternoon, the greens were a little bit bumpy as you would expect from poa annua greens.

 Q. Did you know anyone on the flight or anything? 
 SERGIO GARCIA: Not that I know. I just know what's happened. I don't know exactly who was in it. It doesn't matter, even if you don't know anybody, it's something that you don't want to happen. It's going to be very tough for the families and everybody around it. It doesn't matter, I wear it because I feel like I want to wear it and I should wear it for the families and all of the people that died. 

 Q. When something like that happens in your country, you feel it --
 SERGIO GARCIA: Just the way it happened, too, it's something that's quite sad. 

 Q. Nadal is right across the river; are you going to get together at all this weekend? 
 SERGIO GARCIA: I hope not. I hope I'm playing on the weekend. 

 Q. Are you going to try to get him out here? Do you communicate with him?
 SERGIO GARCIA: I did talk to him yesterday. No, it's not something that I'm going to ask him to do. He's the one that has to feel like he has some time, and obviously it's not easy -- it wouldn't be easy for him to walk around here, but obviously if he asks me for a ticket, he can get as many as he wants. That would be nice but I don't expect it, because, you know, U.S. Open is coming up and it's a big week. 
 I've gone to see him a couple of times and he's come to see me a couple of times. 

 Q. Would you stick around to see him next week?
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, I'll see him a couple of days. 

 Q. Has Nick given you a hard time for the shoes, the red, white and blue? 
 SERGIO GARCIA: I don't know where you see red, white and blue on these shoes. (Laughter).







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT