PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2008
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Great final round, but not enough in the end. 
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, you know, that's the way it goes. You know, the good thing about it is I feel good out there. I felt like I played good. I definitely feel like I played well enough to win. But unfortunately it didn't happen. So that's pretty much all I can ask myself to do.

 Q. When the ball strikes the flagstick again, when some of these things happen again, how do you reconcile them from things that happened in the past, like Carnoustie when you've been so close?
 SERGIO GARCIA: I guess I should have told my caddie to take the pin out, I guess. (Laughter).

 Q. On 18, were there thoughts of 18 with the battle with Padraig then?
 SERGIO GARCIA: No. It was Oakland Hills and there was no Carnoustie here. It's a different major, and, you know, I gave it all that I had. I felt like I hit a great putt on 17. It didn't want to go in. 
 And then unfortunately on 18, I had a great shot from the rough, and unfortunately it was about five feet too short, or five feet too far left. 
 You know, that's all you can do.

 Q. What was your confidence like when you had two in the bunker and Padraig being three on the green? Did you feel you had a leg up there?
 SERGIO GARCIA: No, obviously not. He's one in front of me, so he's got the -- unless I hole the bunker shot, which wasn't an easy bunker shot. You know, he's got the upper hand. After I hit my bunker shot, he has a putt to win it obviously, and he hit a great putt, and like three feet short of the hole, I knew it wasn't going in. 

 Q. Do you think you could have done something better to win?
 SERGIO GARCIA: Not at all.

 Q. We know you are resilient because you came back to win THE PLAYERS Championship; what will you take from this tournament as a positive going forward the rest of the year for The Ryder Cup and next year for the Masters? 
 SERGIO GARCIA: A lot of positive things. I feel like, you know, to shoot 69-68 on the last two rounds at a major on a course like this, I think it's pretty positive. So, you know, a lot of good things. 
 I felt good with my game. I felt really good with my putting. I'm sure you guys will find a way to switch it around, but, you know, I really felt like I putted great today and, you know, just a couple of putts that didn't want to go in, but you can't do anything about that. 

 Q. Will a solid performance in the Ryder Cup help wash away a little bit of this disappointment, especially if you guys win? 
 SERGIO GARCIA: No, why are you making this a disappointment? Obviously I was trying to win, but that's it. It's not disappointing. Every time you're out there trying to win a major, you know, what can you do, there can only be one winner. I'm fine. It was worse when I finished the Open Championship than this year, than I am right now. 

 Q. Why, Sergio? 
 SERGIO GARCIA: Because I lost it there on the back nine. You know, when you give it your best, and the end result is not what you wish for, you know, it's hard, but you feel good, you feel like you gave it your best. 
 There, I kind of lost control a little bit, and I didn't have a chance; when after nine, I did have a chance of doing something, so it's not disappointing.

 Q. What would you say about Paddy's last month? 
 SERGIO GARCIA: Great. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT