WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
July 31, 2008
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. If you could just sum up your day for us, please. 
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah. I mean, obviously not a bad round. I didn't play great, or at least not the way I usually do. But I managed to fight hard and scramble pretty well. The way I hit the ball, I'm pretty happy, pretty satisfied with 1-under. 

 Q. What did you do last week?
 SERGIO GARCIA: I went to my place in Switzerland for three or four days, and then I went back home and practiced a little bit.

 Q. Spain?
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah.

 Q. Anything in particular? Everything? 
 SERGIO GARCIA: No, just a little bit of everything. Just the usual. I saw Stan yesterday here, too, so we caught up and made sure everything was in order.

 Q. You've had an extremely busy stretch of play. The FedExCup thing is probably the busiest stretch you've had in your career, plus the Ryder Cup?
 SERGIO GARCIA: No, it's not the busiest in my career. In '99 when I came out, I think I played like six or seven in a row. But it's the worst of the year. 
 But obviously we know that the summer is always going to be busy. We know that as soon as the British Open gets to us, we're not going to have many weeks off with the FedExCup and obviously the PGA and here and obviously Ryder Cup this year. So it's just something that you've got to realize. 
 Fortunately for us they changed the schedule and they gave us a week off before the Ryder Cup, which was very good.

 Q. What do you suppose would have happened with no week off? Would they have lost a few guys?
 SERGIO GARCIA: They would have lost me, that's for sure. I don't know if they would have lost some of the others, but I would definitely not play the four playoffs, the four tournaments. This way I can still play them and be fairly fresh for the Ryder Cup.

 Q. Have you figured out how many miles you might fly in a year?
 SERGIO GARCIA: Why? Why bother? To go even more crazy? 

 Q. What are you going to do in that week off? Do you have something planned? Maybe just nothing? 
 SERGIO GARCIA: No, obviously I'll work on my game. I think Nick Faldo, the captain, told us that they were thinking about going two days, maybe Tuesday and Wednesday of that week, to play Valhalla. So if I'm in it, I'll probably go maybe at least for one day. 
 But just pretty much try to get nice rest and work a little bit on my game and be ready for it. 

 Q. Do you feel good about going into the last major, the PGA next week?
 SERGIO GARCIA: I need to play more today. I'm working on it, so as soon as you guys let me go, I'm going to go try to figure it out.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, obviously the putt I made on 18 for bogey (laughter) comes to mind with Lee. But yeah, it was a great week. I remember obviously with Phil on Sunday was nice, but the whole week itself was wonderful.

 Q. Do any of the victories stand out?
 SERGIO GARCIA: For that Ryder Cup? You know, they're all great. Obviously we won 2002. That was after '99, that was big for us. And obviously the last two. Even though the scoring has been quite a gap, it hasn't been as easy as everyone might think. They've been hard, and we're looking forward to doing it again.

 Q. Who do you think has a tougher job, Paul Azinger trying to pick four guys for his captain's picks, or Nick, who's got a bunch of guys who are pretty good who have been there before and some up-and-comers like Justin Rose, and he's only got two?
 SERGIO GARCIA: Obviously Nick. If you have four picks, it takes a little bit of -- the only thing about the picks is with four picks you make two more friends than Nick will make. You know, I'm not looking -- if in the future I become the captain, I'm not looking forward to that, because there's so many guys that deserve to go and he can only pick two, so you're going to disappoint a lot. But at least at the end of the day you're trying to pick the ones that you think are going to suit the team the best. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT