PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2008
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How is it this morning?  
 SERGIO GARCÍA: Obviously the course is much softer. The greens are more is receptive. You can shoot a pretty decent score. But quite windy out there and the course is playing really long.  
 You know, it's playing different but still not playing easy. Obviously with this wind and not getting a lot of run on drives and stuff like that.   
  
  Q. Longer day than you would like for a final in a major I would assume?  
 SERGIO GARCÍA: It is what it is so you can't do anything about it. It doesn't bother me, it's just a matter of going out there, believing in myself and keep doing the things I've been doing the last three days.   
  
  Q. How do you feel overall about 69?   
 SERGIO GARCÍA: Yeah, obviously it is disappointing because I felt like I hit a very nice drive and unfortunately it was probably a yard too far right. And then I thought I hit a great putt. It's one of those things. It's a tough finishing hole. You know that it can happen, and I was happy to birdie 17 and it would have been nice to par the last, but we're still in a pretty decent position.  
  
  Q. How different is that golf course today after the rain?  
 SERGIO GARCÍA: It's different. Obviously you can hold the greens a lot easier. The fairways are a little bit easier, too.   
 But it's playing much longer. You know, you're not hitting the same clubs you were hitting the last couple of days. It's kind of made up a little bit on that, and obviously the last three or four holes, they were playing very, very long into the wind today.  
  
  Q. You've played 36 holes around here in a Ryder Cup; is it a little different in a major?  
 SERGIO GARCÍA: A little bit, yes. The setup of the course is obviously a little bit different than it was in the Ryder Cup. They give you a little bit more breathing room in the Ryder Cup.   
 It's a wonderful golf course, one of the toughest we've played, and I think it's very nicely man cured and they have done a good job with it.  
  
  Q. What's the game plan this afternoon?  
 SERGIO GARCÍA: Same thing, just keep believing myself and give myself a chance. Hopefully get out there and get something going.   
  
  Q. Spain having a fabulous year; hoping to finish it off?  
 SERGIO GARCÍA: That's my goal.   
  
  Q. The break in between, how will you spend it?   
 SERGIO GARCÍA: Probably go back to the hotel, maybe take a shower and relax a little bit, come back and have something to eat and get ready just like if nothing would have happened this morning. It's a brand new round and we have to be ready for it.  
  
  Q. Will you be able to duplicate your normal routine?   
 SERGIO GARCÍA: Yeah, I probably won't hit as many balls or things like that, but yeah, pretty much the same.  
  
  Q. I heard you say the course is playing longer. Obviously due to the breeze. What other kind of tricks is the breeze playing?  
 SERGIO GARCÍA: Not only because of the breeze. Obviously because of how much softer the course is. You're not getting as much release on your tee shots. Obviously that's making you hit longer clubs off the tees where, before you were hitting an 8-iron or 5-wood and now you're having to hit driver or 3-wood, and it makes easy to miss the fairways.  
 But you know, the good thing about it is that you can be a little bit more aggressive going to the greens because you know you're stopping the ball a little easier. The course is still playing quite difficult.  
  
  Q. Playing 36 holes, or 35 in your case, how important is fitness, and how much work do you do?   
 SERGIO GARCÍA: Yeah, I do quite a bit. I try to stay fit but not only working out, also playing other sports. That always helps, too. I feel good. I feel comfortable. I feel strong and unfortunately we went to the gym yesterday but it was closed already so we didn't do anything.   
  
  Q. Because of the weather?  
 SERGIO GARCÍA: No, because we got out of here so late.  
  
  Q. What's the most you've played --  
 SERGIO GARCÍA: When I was little, I used to just go. I remember playing 54 holes one day, when I was like probably ten or 12.   
 It's fine. Obviously it's a little bit more pressure and that's what can tire you a bit more than anything else, and I've just got to stay strong mentally and I'll be fine.   
  
  Q. How much time do you spend in the gym these days?   
 SERGIO GARCÍA: Usually probably work out about four days a week and I will probably spend just around two hours, a little bit of cardio and a little bit of weights and all that stuff.   
  
  Q. What's your bench pressing?   
 SERGIO GARCÍA: 650 pounds -- sorry. 650 kilos. (Laughter).  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT