THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 9, 2008
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. So you'd like to be in better, but you're still in a pretty good position at this point?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: Definitely. Mainly because I think the way I played, I probably deserved a bit more than I got. It was really difficult out there. It was so windy and the greens were getting quite firm towards the back nine. You know, unfortunately these things can happen when you have 16, 17 and 18 coming in under these conditions.   
 You know, I'm not disappointed. I think that I played well. I was quite calm. I felt like I was in control of what I was doing, and unfortunately it just would have been nice to make that putt on 18. It just didn't want to go in. What can you do about that?   
  
  Q. Is it as much the indecision that the wind puts in you as much as it is the actual conditions of playing?   
 SERGIO GARCIA: You know, when you get -- the problem is it's not the strength of the wind, it's the gusts. Once the wind starts getting gusty, it can be dead calm like what happened to me on 17 for a second, and then it can be blowing really, really hard in the next second.   
 You can't control that. Unfortunately that's what happened to me on 17, and I paid the price. At the end of the day, the good thing is I'm still there with a good chance coming into the weekend. I feel like my game is in good shape. I feel like my short game is in good shape, too, so hopefully I can pull through it.  
  
  Q. Can you talk us through your second shot at 17 and the third one, just what you were facing and whether or not it released a little too far down?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: Well, like I said, the wind stopped a little bit on my first shot and it went a little bit long and left. Then I think I got lucky there catching the cart path because it probably would have gone in the water if it would have been straight.   
 And then I dropped it and I seemed to get a decent lie. It was still a tough shot, all downhill, and quite firm, very quick, a little bit downhill. I still felt like I could flop it a little bit and probably keep it on top and have a chance at making par.   
 Unfortunately I hit it and it just took a huge hop and it went all the way to the other side of the green. And then I hit my next chip straight into the green and it grabbed really quickly and didn't roll, and then my putt -- it was a tricky putt. It felt like it was probably left edge, but it almost looked like it wanted to go straight. I probably hit it about straight and it just went a little right.  
  
  Q. Do you agree with a lot of the guys who have come up here and said you've got to have this aggressive defensive posture all over the golf course when the wind blows like this?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, definitely. You still have to commit to your shots. The thing is you know that there's some pins that you can't get to because of the wind and everything. You know, today out there, pars were a good score, and I would have loved to finish par-par, and unfortunately it didn't happen.  
  
  Q. You looked pretty aggressive on that tee shot at 18 after 17.   
 SERGIO GARCIA: What do you want me to do, hit it 100 yards right?   
  
  Q. No, I just wondered if you were a little mad at yourself and just decided to --  
 SERGIO GARCIA: No, not at all. I just went with the shot that felt comfortable, just a little power fade just off the edge of the water. I hit it nicely down there. I was trying to hit the fairway like I was trying to do in every single tee shot.  
  
  Q. Yesterday Ernie was talking about the fact that you play all day long and then you get to 17 and there's just something that goes wrong. Is that frustrating for you?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: It's the way the game is. It's the way the game is, and you can't change that. 17 is what it is, and everybody plays it. If somebody hits it to give and he's able to make birdie, the rest should be able to do the same. That they do it, it's a different question, but at the end of the day, that's what you have to try to do.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT