THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 8, 2008
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Was it there today for the taking? Was the golf course pretty benign early in the day?   
 SERGIO GARCIA: It was definitely -- I wouldn't say it was easy, but it was definitely not as tough. You know, it was calm for the first probably four or five holes. You know, the greens were a little more receptive than they're going to be in the afternoon with this little bit of breeze and as they firm up.  
 You know what, the course was still playing -- you still had to hit the shots. You had to hit the fairway, you had to hit good shots into the greens. The greens were very nice, very quick, but rolling very, very true. If you managed to put some good rolls in there you were going to make some putts.  
  
  Q. So I guess it didn't surprise you to see a lot of guys in red numbers early on putting up birdies?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: No, usually all the courses we play they get tougher as the week goes on, as they firm up. You know, they seem to get a little tougher. Usually you see some of the best scores around the first couple of days and then it's a little bit tougher.  
  
  Q. Do you have to pick your spots here? Are there certain holes you say, okay, I can make birdie here, or I just need to be conservative?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: Well, it depends. It depends what situation you are in. I mean, if you're hitting the ball well, you know, you can birdie every hole. But at the same time, if you're just a little bit off, you know, just in the rough or on the wrong side of the fairway, you have to realize that par is a good score and just move on.   
 You know, I think that's the beauty of this course. It's really making you look at every single aspect of it and making you realize what's the best shot at the moment.  
  
  Q. You have to also keep your head in the game, because you're going to make some bogeys because you're going to get a chance to make those up?   
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, if you're playing well you're going to make some birdies. The way the greens are, you're going to hit some shots that are going to be close and you're going to roll some putts in. It's just a matter of keeping your patience, even if you make a couple bogeys in there, knowing that you can still good a good round.  
  
  Q. It's a course that's hard to be comfortable on, but you seem to have a comfort zone here?  
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, I've always said that this is one of my favorite courses. You know, I guess it's got a little look to Valderrama, which I also love. Fortunately for me I've been able to put some good rounds in here, and hopefully I can keep doing it for the rest of the week.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT