NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 14, 2008
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  How was it out there?   
 SERGIO GARCÍA:  On the back nine it got quite cold and quite windy.  So it wasn't great today.   
  
  Q.  How tough is it to keep your focus in conditions like that?   
 SERGIO GARCÍA:  Well, do you keep your focus but the main thing is the difficulty of pulling the right clubs and guessing right, because, you know, you can still be hitting the right club and if the wind changes a little bit, you get a little gust of wind or something, unfortunately that's the way it is.   
  
  Q.  Other guys have been saying they have never seen the wind coming from the direction it's coming today.   
 SERGIO GARCÍA:  It was coming all over the place.  So I think it easily changed five or six times today.  But then when you get consistent towards the back nine, towards 17, 16, it definitely, you know, we had some holes that were playing difficult like 9 and 18, and even 17 was playing really long.   
  
  Q.  Adam Scott said he felt like he was hitting the ball well but not getting anything out of it because of the conditions.  How did you feel with your ball-striking today?   
 SERGIO GARCÍA:  Definitely the same way.  I felt like did I hit a lot of good shots but unfortunately I didn't get anything out of it.  You know, some of them were flying just short of the green and staying short and leaving myself a tough up-and-down over ridges and stuff like that.  And some others were flying a little bit closer to the pin because the firmness of the greens, and still leaving myself a tough chip.   
 So I feel like I didn't hit the ball too bad, and unfortunately the two or three shots I missed, I got punished extremely hard for.   
  
  Q.  Disappointed coming here and having these kind of conditions, not necessarily the game, but the conditions?   
 SERGIO GARCÍA:  Is it disappointing?  I guess you have to deal with what you have.  Just got to try to get better and hopefully things will come out a little better tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT