THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2007
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Pretty good weekend? 
 SERGIO GARCIA:  Yeah, definitely.  I played very good on the weekend.  I barely missed a fairway and barely missed a green on the last two days on this course.  I'm very pleased with that. 
 I felt comfortable all week with my swing.  I felt like I was in a good rhythm, and it's a shame I think it's going to be just short.  At least I gave myself a shot at it, and that's all I can ask for. 

 Q.  The first few days, just a slow start? 
 SERGIO GARCIA:  I played great on the first day with those wind conditions.  I couldn't really make a putt.  Things weren't just happening to me.  Everything seemed to go wrong the first couple of days. 
 Finally on the weekend I kind of probably loosened up a little bit and things kind of started happening.  On the other hand, I gave myself so many good birdie chances.  I guess at the end of the day you've got to make some. 

 Q.  U.S. Open coming up, this is a good -- 
 SERGIO GARCIA:  Yeah, it's good, definitely.  Always, every time you play well it's a great boost of confidence.  I want to keep working on what I've been doing.  I really felt -- the last two weeks I felt very, very good with my swing.  I felt like I was striking the ball very, very nicely. 
 Unfortunately last week I putted like a coward.  But this week I found a couple of things there and started rolling the putts very nicely.  Even the ones I missed, they were very good quality putts.  I think that's all you can ask for yourself. 

 Q.  The putter, how long have you had that? 
 SERGIO GARCIA:  This week.  It's a very similar look.  It looks pretty much the same as the one I've been using pretty much for a year.  That's the way it goes. 

 Q.  There was some debate out on No. 2 with the drop. 
 SERGIO GARCIA:  I don't think there's anything to talk about.  I've never tried to do anything wrong on a golf course.  If I would have felt at any time that I wasn't taking full relief, I would have called for a ruling and do whatever was right.  But I felt like I did and that's all there is to it.  I took relief from the drainage, but it's not a big deal. 

 Q.  It's not a big deal? 
 SERGIO GARCIA:  No, not at all.  Cliff's caddie wanted to make it a big deal, but it wasn't. 

 Q.  Did that -- emotionally, did that get anywhere to you afterwards? 
 SERGIO GARCIA:  It did a little bit on that second green and on the third, because pretty much, I mean, they were calling me a cheater on that.  You never like that.  I've never cheated in my whole life.  I'd rather shoot 85 than shoot 65 cheating.  I never liked that. 
 So I felt a little bit -- it was a little bit of adrenaline going through my body.  I finally relaxed towards the fourth or fifth hole and kept playing the way I was playing.  It was one of those things that happen. 

 Q.  Did it cost you any strokes? 
 SERGIO GARCIA:  It definitely did.  It probably cost me at least one. 

 Q.  That's got to hurt. 
 SERGIO GARCIA:  It's fine, but you never know.  Maybe I would have not finished the way I finished.  It is what it is. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT