WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 25, 2007
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Are you embarrassed by the spitting incident at all or have you apologized? 
 SERGIO GARCIA:  I apologized already.  Are you embarrassed that I didn't spit today that you didn't have anything better to ask me?  That's fine.  Next, then. 
 I apologized to everybody on TV, yesterday.  I said it was a stupid thing, and, you know, there's no excuse.  Obviously you weren't watching that, but anyway.  Next, please. 

 Q.  How did the fans treat you out there today? 
 SERGIO GARCIA:  Great.  Yeah, great, as always. 

 Q.  When Tiger is this dominant, is it frustrating when you played a pretty good round of golf and you still see he's up there? 
 SERGIO GARCIA:  No, I guess at the end of the day, the only thing I can do is try to do my best.  You know, that's about it.  If he plays better, you know, congrats.  But I can only depend on myself, and you know, that's really the only thing -- the only thing you can do. 

 Q.  When you're six behind Tiger, is it any different than if you're six behind somebody else? 
 SERGIO GARCIA:  No, you approach it the same way every time.  You go out there, try to post the best score possible.  You know, usually the course is going to play tougher as the weekend gets going.  So, you know, I just -- you just try to go out there and do the best you can and hopefully it's enough.  If not, just try to finish as high as possible. 

 Q.  Where is your game now? 
 SERGIO GARCIA:  Well, I guess I can still improve in a lot of parts of my game.  But it's hard, too, because we've been playing -- every week we've been playing with quite a lot of wind.  It's not -- you know, it's not just normal.  You keep doing abbreviated swings and trying to fight the wind all the time. 
 I feel like overall I played decent.  I feel like my short game has definitely improved quite a bit.  So I'm happy with that.  And just got to keep doing the right things and keep believing in myself and, you know, just keep giving myself chances. 

 Q.  Does Tiger help everybody get better just because he sets the bar so high? 
 SERGIO GARCIA:  Yeah, he probably helped everybody get better.  It didn't help anybody win, because he wins all the time. 
 Yeah, I guess it did help everybody get better overall on their games and physiques and all those sort of things. 
 So, you know, I would say so. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT