WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 24, 2007
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Can you talk about the drive on 18? 
 SERGIO GARCIA:  I wasn't too worried about it.  I was trying to hit it just that left edge of the green, pretty straight there, maybe a little bit of a cut and let the wind take it.  I just thought it was going to catch that left side of the green.  Obviously just bounced a little left and rolled down. 
 It looked like it was going pretty slowly to get all the way to the water.  But you know, when it started rolling down, I guess it was a good break. 

 Q.  Toughest among the closing holes you've played this year? 
 SERGIO GARCIA:  And with this wind we're playing this year, it's one of the toughest no doubt.  Today it's slightly easier because it's not as much into as it was last couple of days.  If you hit a good, solid drive, you can carry the edge of the water. 
 But it's definitely one of the toughest, mainly because it's not only just on the tee shot, which is very -- it's testing you a lot there.  It's also testing you on the second. 

 Q.  And if the wind keeps blowing like this, is six shots too much to make up tomorrow? 
 SERGIO GARCIA:  Well, you really have to get it going I guess.  I know, I mean, if it blows like this, you probably need something like that, maybe a couple better if you can, something like 65, 64, which is not easy.  You have to play very well and you know, everything has to go the right way all day, and get a little help from the guys on top. 
 I guess the only thing I can do is go out there tomorrow and try to have a decent round and put up the best finish I can. 

 Q.  With Doral's date changes, closer to the Masters now, how do you feel about your game going into the master championship season; it's been a good start to the season. 
 SERGIO GARCIA:  Yeah, it's been decent.  I feel like my game is not in bad shape.  I don't know -- I don't know what's going to happen the week we play with no wind; it's going to feel awkward.  
 You know, it feels okay.  I feel like my whole game is getting better slowly.  So I just need to keep going in the right direction and keep giving myself good chances at winning events. 

 Q.  Does it seem like eight years ago that you were running up the hill at Medinah?  Does it seem like a short time, a long time? 
 SERGIO GARCIA:  It seems like it was closer, earlier than eight years. 
 I don't know, I guess it's one of those things.  It feels like I've been here for a long time, but at the same time, it also feels like I was 19 or 20 a couple of years ago. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT