THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2007
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  You put yourself back in contention, obviously it was a little tough on 18, but just talk about the round in general and what happened on 18?   
 SERGIO GARCIA:  No, I did.  I played very nicely today, very steady.  I hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens.  I really had a pretty simple 7-under par going and missed some good birdie opportunities early on and then I got it going a little bit towards the middle of the round.   
 I wanted to hit a good shot.  I wanted to hit a proper shot on 18.  I wanted to give myself a good birdie chance.  I didn't want to blast it right.  I just got a little quick, a little stuck and unfortunately didn't cut it.  I just pulled it a little bit and I couldn't save my bogey.   
 It's a shame, but at least I put a good round out there and gave myself a chance for tomorrow.  So unfortunately I'm just going to have to shoot -- tomorrow I'm going to have to shoot two shots better than if I made par on the last.   
  
  Q.  Why do you think it seems like the later groups the scores are much better?   
 SERGIO GARCIA:  I don't know, better players?  No, but the course, the way it's set up and everything the greens are not very, very quick.  They're a good speed.  If you manage to get on a roll and hit a lot of fairways and feel comfortable with your irons you can give yourself a lot of good birdie chances.  The greens are just rolling beautifully.  If you get a bit of confidence there you can make some good putts.   
 On the other hand, if you start a little bit the other way, the wrong way, and this is a course that can get you on any hole.  It did to me on 18.   
  
  Q.  It's pretty accessible today, the pins are in spots you can get to if you're comfortable with your hitting?   
 SERGIO GARCIA:  On the fairway, yes.  Comes back to what I said, if you drive it in the fairway.  If you start to drive it in the rough, you're going to -- sometimes you're not going to have a good lie.  And even if the pin is accessible it turns into a difficult pin because with the firmness of the greens and everything, it's really not that easy.  But if you drive it in the fairway you can give yourself a lot of looks.   
  
  Q.  Did you feel yourself get confident as it went on and made some putts and got some things going?   
 SERGIO GARCIA:  Yeah, I felt really good from the beginning.  I played nicely.  I probably could have been easily 4-under through 6, and I was only 2.  But I had it going quite nicely, taking away the 8th hole; from 6 to about 13, I made a lot of birdies there.   
 Then coming in I made a beautiful birdie on 16.  I hit it really close on 17, unfortunately misread it a little bit.  But that's the way it goes.   
  
  Q.  What happened with the second shot on 18?   
 SERGIO GARCIA:  I pulled it left and went in the water.   
  
  Q.  Just yanked it from the beginning?   
 SERGIO GARCIA:  No, I didn't yank it, I just pulled it a little bit.  It went two yards into the water, it didn't go 30 yards in the water.   
  
  Q.  What club did you use on that one?   
 SERGIO GARCIA:  6-iron.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT