ABU DHABI GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 16, 2007
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   GORDON SIMPSON:  We're all delighted to have Sergio Garcia back with us at Abu Dhabi Golf Club for the second time.  Sergio, Henrik Stenson has just been in, he's just got married, he's just having a baby; any news from you? 
 SERGIO GARCIA:  Not that I know.  (Laughing). 
 GORDON SIMPSON:  Seriously, I take it you've had a nice break over Christmas and recharged the batteries. 
 SERGIO GARCIA:  I did definitely.  Probably longest break I've had in my whole career.  It felt pretty good. 
 And now looking forward to get back into it at the start of the year and hopefully get started here as well as I did last year. 
 You know, a little rusty but hopefully we'll be able to get rid of it as the week goes on. 
 GORDON SIMPSON:  I take it you haven't touched the clubs much. 
 SERGIO GARCIA:  The last ten days I started practising, but up to that I didn't do a whole lot. 
 GORDON SIMPSON:  And you hope to get a fast start and a good year, obviously I'm sure you've got a lot of targets. 
 SERGIO GARCIA:  Definitely, yes, I think that you know, I'm hoping to have another great year and get some good wins under my belt.  I think that it is going to be a very interesting year with all that is happening in the U.S. with the new schedule and everything.  You know, it's always nice to get off to a good solid start at the beginning of the year. 
 GORDON SIMPSON:  Okay.  We'll open up to some questions, please. 

 Q.  Did you plan on this being one of your longest breaks and what did you do? 
 SERGIO GARCIA:  Yeah, I did.  Well, it's been last tournament I played was Sun City.  I played Sun City and then the week afterwards I played my little event in Spain.  So since the 10th of December up to now, just over a month, it's probably one of the longest breaks I've had. 
 So I spent a lot of time with the family.  We went to Switzerland.  I actually I have news -- yeah.  I got a new puppy! 
 GORDON SIMPSON:  Boy or a girl? 
 SERGIO GARCIA:  Boy.  A lab (Labrador).  Went to Switzerland, spent Christmas there and spent time with Morgan, too, throughout New Year's and just started getting ready for Abu Dhabi. 

 Q.  Do you miss not playing golf? 
SERGIO GARCIA:  No, I can go without playing golf for a while.  I can do so many other things.  I can play tennis, football, you know, I can do a whole lot of other things.  So if I have to, I don't really miss golf that much when I'm resting. 
 But I was looking forward to get started though and come back.  After a while, you want to get those juices going and playing a little bit and get the adrenaline going. 

 Q.  Do you and Morgan play any golf together? 
 SERGIO GARCIA:  No, we played a little bit of tennis.  Not a whole lot because she's recovering from knee surgery, but definitely not golf, no.  She doesn't want to play golf. 

 Q.  So you don't play golf with Morgan against her dad and Chris Evert? 
 SERGIO GARCIA:  No.  I don't think Morgan likes to play golf that much anymore.  She has enough by watching me and her dad. 

 Q.  How is the course playing? 
 SERGIO GARCIA:  It's very nice.  It's in good shape.  I noticed a couple of changes here and there.  So I'm guessing it's probably going to make the course a couple -- maybe three or four shots tougher.  But it all depends on the weather, too.  Last year I remember we had I think one or two days of a lot of wind. 
 So if it doesn't blow, it will play a little bit easier, and if it blows like it did last year, it will play just a little harder than last year. 

 Q.  Do you like playing in the wind? 
 SERGIO GARCIA:  I've always enjoyed playing with the wind.  I feel like you have to work the ball a little bit more.  Players that come out on top are players that control their ball flight and know a little bit of what they are doing with it, but I don't mind it.  I mean, if I could choose, I would love for these greens to be firmer but it doesn't really happen with bermuda, Bermuda greens. 

 Q.  Any swing changes with your dad this year? 
 SERGIO GARCIA:  We're working a little bit on the start of the swing, the takeaway and a little bit on the backswing.  That's the main thing we're working on. 
 Same things we've been working on the last two or three years, just keep try to get better and better but nothing huge I would say. 
 GORDON SIMPSON:  Thank you very much for coming in, Sergio.  Good luck this week. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT