WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 22, 2007
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  (Inaudible.)   
 SERGIO GARCIA:  What caused that?  I made a nice 16-, 17-footer on 16 and hit it really close on 18 and chipped in just short of the green on 1.   
  
  Q.  How was it out there?   
 SERGIO GARCIA:  It was difficult.  It was really difficult.  I think it's calmed down a little bit now.  But early on it was really difficult.  I mean, there was some holes where you had probably two or three feet to bounce to fly the ball to hopefully have a chance of making birdie or having an easy par.   
 And, you know, unfortunately I hit a bad shot on 11 and made bogey, and then 13 was playing really difficult because it was playing a lot downwind.  If you flew it short of the green, it was going to stay short.  If you flew it on, you were off the green.  That's what happened to me and made bogey there.   
 But I recovered nicely with those two birdies on 16 and 18.  18 was a bit of a bonus to birdie that hole the way it was playing.   
 Then I had a nice eagle on 1.  Got it going a little bit.  Unfortunately, these weather conditions, it's so difficult to putt because you're standing over a putt and you've got the wind howling at you.  It might turn it left-to-right or into a right-to-lefter.  So you really have to trust it.  I missed a short putt on 3 for par, and I then hit over the green on 5 and was pretty much dead.  I made a nice birdie on 7.   
 So pretty happy with 1-under par under the conditions.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)   
 SERGIO GARCIA:  Well, they'll get receptive with the amount of rain we got -- still, they only need today to not rain anymore and tomorrow to be a little bit of the same day without rain, these greens are going to be firm by Saturday, no doubt about it.   
 Because even with the amount of rain they had, there were some greens that, I mean, hitting a wedge or 9-iron or 8-iron, you could stop it.  But hitting a 4-iron or 5-iron downwind, the ball was releasing quite a lot.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)   
 SERGIO GARCIA:  I think it's going to be somewhere around that.  I don't think anybody's going to go deep in these conditions.  It's playing quite hard out there.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT