PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2006
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Other than the disastrous triple bogey, do you feel like you played pretty solid golf today?
SERGIO GARCIA:  Yes, and unfortunately the triple bogey wasn't    if you take away all the chips I had, it wasn't that bad.  I hit a good tee shot.  I was down in the middle of the fairway and I kind of pushed it right a little bit with my 8 iron.  Then I just couldn't get it on the green.

But I came back nicely with a good birdie on the next, tough hole, and then with some good play from then on.

Still quite happy to shoot a couple under with a triple bogey in a major is never a bad deal.
Q.  What does it mean to your momentum to be able to get that birdie right after the triple?
SERGIO GARCIA:  Well, it was nice, because I was definitely not a very happy camper after 11.  But it definitely helped a little, but it didn't make me forget what it did.
Q.  Are you feeling a little more confident on the greens, and are you trying a different putting stroke?
SERGIO GARCIA:  No    sorry.  No, I'm not trying    no.  Just keep working on the things I've been working on and rolling the ball nicely, so that's important.  Roll a couple here and there.  But I hit a lot of good putts and that's the most important thing.
Q.  How would you characterize the scoring conditions, if this is holding up right here?
SERGIO GARCIA:  Well, there's pretty much no wind.  So you're always going to get somebody that is going to hit the ball nicely, is going to get it down the fairway a lot of times and give himself a lot of birdie chances.  You know, you're going to get some good scores with the weather as it is.

There's no doubt that if it doesn't rain, then I don't think it's going to happen, then the course is going to get tougher as the week goes on.

We'll see.  We'll see what happens.  You know, there's some good scores out there, but I don't feel like I'm too far away from where I want to be at the moment.
Q.  How do you feel going into the weekend to be at 5 under with the leader right now at 8, is that in admirable position going into the weekend?
SERGIO GARCIA:  Well, best position I could be is if I was at 12  or 13 under.

Yeah, I'm in a decent position, no doubt about it.  This is a major and it's not easy no matter what some people might think.  It's always tough, and it gets tricky around the greens, so you have to be very consistent there.  You know, it's a good, decent score and hopefully I can have a couple more good ones and see what we can do.
Q.  How much have you played with Stenson over the years, and what can you tell us about him and his game?
SERGIO GARCIA:  I've played a little bit, not a whole lot.  I think he turned pro probably about four years ago, something like that, four or five years ago.

But he's definitely a great player.  I mean, I'm very happy to see him on my Ryder Cup Team.  Long hitter.  Usually drives the ball pretty straight for as far as he hits it.  And he's really good with his irons.

So I'm not surprised to see him out there.  I think he's a wonderful player, and, you know, I can't wait to see him play in the Ryder Cup.
Q.  You mentioned it would be tougher on the weekend.  Do you think they are going to tuck the pins even more?
SERGIO GARCIA:  Oh, they will probably do    as I said, if it doesn't rain, the course will be a little bit    if it doesn't rain, the course will be a little firmer so, it will be a little bit tougher to get to some of those pins.

If it rains, you will be able to get to some of those pins, but then the rough will be a bit tougher because it will be a bit wetter.  So we'll see what happens.  But it always gets tougher on the weekend, so we'll see.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT