BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 12, 2006
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How is the back?
SERGIO GARCIA:  It's fine. I hit it in the rough too often at Winged Foot! It's not bothering me at all now. I think it was just muscular. It was right next to the right shoulder blade and it's fine now.
Q.  Good to see you back. You haven't been here for a few years?
SERGIO GARCIA:  It's a nice place. I am looking forward to it. I haven't played since 2001. it's a nice course and I want to get my points for the Ryder Cup and I want to make a bit of an extra effort to get my place in the Ryder Cup team, which I want to be in.
Q.  You are playing the next three weeks?
SERGIO GARCIA:  Yes.
Q.  So you changed your schedule?
SERGIO GARCIA:  A little bit, yes. I thought about coming here but it wasn't sure. After I pulled out of the Booz Allen, I decided to come here.
Q.  The BMW - the last qualifying event - is that on your schedule?
SERGIO GARCIA:  No.
Q.  Do you feel you should be an automatic qualifier if you play to your potential?
SERGIO GARCIA:  Yes, I should make by myself. I have a good chance. I am in the team right now and I just need a couple of good weeks and that should be enough. I am hoping I can do that.
Q. Apart from The Open, you haven't played much in Britain. Is that the tax issue?
SERGIO GARCIA:  Well, I mean, that is something I have stopped bothering about. I let my lawyers and accountants take care of that. It is a bit of a shame. It keeps not only by myself but a lot of guys from playing more often. Unfortunately that's the way it is and I can't do much about it.
Q.  How many can you play?
SERGIO GARCIA:  I can play as many as I want, but it's just how much it costs me!
Q.  Is this an exception as it's a Ryder Cup year?
SERGIO GARCIA:  It depends. We will see. I really enjoy playing somewhere and it's worth an extra effort. I wanted to play before the Open and I wanted to play more to make the Ryder Cup team.
Q.  You're playing in Crans?
SERGIO GARCIA:  Yes, it's my home course. I think it's great. Michelle is a wonderful player and I am looking forward to seeing her play there. It's not a long course. The greens are quite tricky and you have to be accurate with your irons and you have to spin the ball a lot so you have to be very precise and she might struggle with that. A bit of undulations.
Q.  How frustrating has this season been?
SERGIO GARCIA:  It's okay. The only thing you can do it keep working hard and keep putting yourself in a position to win and you are going to win some and lose some. That's the way it is. It's all a learning experience.
Q.  Are you looking on the next six weeks as a huge period up to Medinah?
SERGIO GARCIA:  It's a big spell. Important, but not huge. It's not going to change my career. Even if I win it's great but we always try to win majors but it's not a career changing thing. It's not all about that. You've got to keep going. It will be great to pull one off but hopefully all the work I've been doing will play off.
Q.  Is that a way of taking the pressure off yourself? Saying it doesn't matter?
SERGIO GARCIA:  Well I suppose I would love to win but if I didn't mind then the last two and a half weeks I spent at home I would just have lain by the pool or the beach doing nothing. But that's  not the case. I worked very hard to get my game in good shape. It does matter but it's not life or death. But it doesn't mean I don't want to win.
Q.  Have you been to Hoylake?
SERGIO GARCIA:  No. Never. Not for amateur things either.
Q.  Were you at home at the time of the Valencia train attack?
SERGIO GARCIA:  Yes I was at home. I live about 60kms from Valencia. It puts things like winning majors in perspective. You have to be grateful for what you have and being able to be out here doing what you love most. Of course we want to do it as well as we can but let's see what happens.
Q.  Did you not go and watch Nadal at Wimbledon?

No I was watching the World Cup final. Adidas invited me to watch the final.
Q.  Sorry for Monty?
SERGIO GARCIA:  Yes, it was a pity after that drive on 18. At the moment he might have thought birdie to win outright but it didn't turn out that way and unfortunately he didn't hit a good shot. But that's what happens on that type of course. Just a bit off, miss on the wrong side, and it costs you a double and the US Open.
Q.  Do you agree that any European winning a Major right now would have a good effort on other Europeans to do the same?
SERGIO GARCIA:  Definitely. I think anyone European win is great for all of us and European golf. It would have been great but at the same time a friend of mine, Geoff Ogilvy, won.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT