BUICK INVITATIONAL
January 29, 2006
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  You almost had yourself a win here at 18.
SERGIO GARCIA:  Yeah, I thought I hit a good putt, but obviously not good enough.  There's nothing you can do except keep working.  At least    I didn't play great all week long, and unfortunately I couldn't turn it around today.  At least I hung in there and I gave myself a chance.  Unfortunately I couldn't take it, but that's the way it is.
Q.  (Inaudible).
SERGIO GARCIA:  Well, I had a horrendous shot left and I think it bounced in the bush and just kind of went through it.  It's just one of those things that it's not supposed to happen.
Q.  Were you surprised at how you struggled early?  It took you a while to find a comfort zone.
SERGIO GARCIA:  Well, the problem is I just didn't feel so comfortable.  A couple shots here and there, they cost me a little bit, and it put me kind of behind the 8 ball.  You know, I was trying to commit to myself and do the best I could, but unfortunately it wasn't playing well.  I wasn't feeling great.
Q.  Were you aware of everything that was going on on the leaderboard?  There was an eight way tie at one point.
SERGIO GARCIA:  No, I didn't.  I knew that it was around 9 under, and then of course Olazabal and Nathan birdied 18.  It would have been nice to make that putt on 16.  That would have been probably one of my best shots today.  Unfortunately I couldn't get a good roll on it.  It took a couple bounces.  Then I gave myself a chance on 18, but it just didn't work out.
Q.  Talk about how much better you feel standing over your putts.
SERGIO GARCIA:  I hit some good putts.  The problem is because of the way I started when I kind of    even though I hit some good ones today I kind of got a little less aggressive than I wanted to.
Q.  (Inaudible).
SERGIO GARCIA:  Yeah, I felt okay.  Yeah, I felt fine.
Q.  The eagle putt on 18, talk about the break on that.
SERGIO GARCIA:  Yeah, a really tough putt.  It was like a tough hill at the beginning and then down.  It was about a six  or seven foot break and I hit it too hard.  I wanted to make sure I get it there, give it a shot.  Unfortunately I didn't make it for birdie, but I needed to give it a chance.
Q.  Talk about playing against Tiger.  As much success as you've had, is it frustrating to be in this situation?
SERGIO GARCIA:  What can you do?  I wanted to play well, there's no doubt about that.  You know, it's been a long week, a long trip from Abu Dhabi.  You know, I felt a little bit tired all week long, and unfortunately it caught up with me today.  But that's all you can do, and go on to next week.
Q.  Where do you play next?
SERGIO GARCIA:  Phoenix.
Q.  (Inaudible).
SERGIO GARCIA:  If I had the read and I could have played half decent, it would have been more than enough.  Unfortunately it wasn't meant to be.
Q.  (Inaudible).
SERGIO GARCIA:  The course was playing tough.  This course on Sunday, it plays tough.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT