HNA OPEN DE FRANCE
June 30, 2018
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 7-under par today, what was the big change?
SERGIO GARCIA: Well, not much.  Obviously I played really well, other than one shot on 18.  But I was very proud of the way I came over that one, and hit a great 4-iron into the green.
You know, obviously the course was a tiny bit more gettable today, a couple of tees up.  The greens were still kind of soft and not as much wind as the first couple of days.  So it was nice to be able to hit the ball the way I did and obviously got going nicely.
Q. Talking about a dropped shot, it was a good bogey on 18 because of the tee shot but the second shot, tell us about the psychological challenge that Le Golf National presents, because that looked pretty intimidating?
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, obviously it's not the way you want to start but obviously pulled a 3-wood, and I had 208, left-to-right wind a tinny bit into.  It was just a cut 4-iron for me from the first cut of rough.  I knew it was going to come out a tiny bit soft and I just kept telling myself the same thing I was telling myself all day.  Just keep doing the things that you're doing well, and believe it, because of one bad swing, it doesn't mean that you're going to screw up the whole day.
So I was able to do that, and I hit a really good shot there.
Q. Are you starting to think you should have come more often to this tournament now?
SERGIO GARCIA: I mean, you come when you come, and I'm very happy to be here now.  Probably I'm more excited to be here like this week because of not being before, so I'm enjoying it.
Q. With a course that presents plenty of challenges, what is the strategy going out for the final round tomorrow?
SERGIO GARCIA: Well, we'll see.  We'll see what kind of day we have.  Obviously, you know, the goal is to play as well as I did today.  I believe in what I'm doing, and you know, just have as much confidence as possible, like I was doing today.  If I'm able to do that, I should have a good round and it's the kind of golf course that it's testing you every single hole and you've got to stay very patient and very down-to-earth.
Q. One bad tee shot on 18 doesn't take away from what a fantastic round of golf that was for you today?
SERGIO GARCIA: The way I'm looking at it, obviously it's not the tee shot I wanted to hit but for me it was important to see what I did after that, and the 4-iron I hit, that's what I'm taking away.  Obviously it is a bogey and, you know, I would have loved to not make any bogeys, it's always nice, and on a golf course like this, it's even nicer.  But it was a great round overall.  I definitely would have taken 7-under.  I probably would have taken four or five at the beginning of the day, so I can't complain about that.
Q. It was a fantastic approach after the dropped shot but do you take the confidence from the other 17 holes that enables you to make that shot?
SERGIO GARCIA: Yes, definitely.  I knew I was swinging well.  Just one little thought kind creeped into my mind when I was starting that tee shot and I didn't want to hit it kind of like a soft, weak shot to the right and kind of get on that rough.  Kind of came over it and hit it in the water.  It's as simple as that.
Like I said, I kind of gathered myself a little bit and made sure that I was staying in the moment.  I needed to hit a good shot to try to save par, or make a bogey at the worst.
Q. Your first time here at this event, and tomorrow, after today, you go in great shape and you can chase this title tomorrow.
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, we'll see what the leaders finish at, but obviously, we need a round like this to get back into the middle of it.  We're probably going to need another pretty decent round tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT