VOLVO MASTERS
October 29, 2005
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  How did it go, Sergio?
SERGIO GARCIA:  Well, it was a pretty solid day.  Unfortunately I didn't play quite as well as I played    I didn't play badly, but I didn't play quite as well as I did in the last couple of days, like on 14 and 15.  But it was nice to hit some good shots in coming in, put a bit of pressure on Monty, and then he helped me a little bit with the double on 17.

But the rest of the day, going into the back nine, I didn't think I was going to be level up with Monty, so I'm very pleased with that.
Q.  Were you surprised at 17, what happened on 17?
SERGIO GARCIA:  It can happen to anybody.  It's that type of hole.  You see, sometimes you lay up, I'm not saying    he had to lay up, because he had to hit like probably a good 3 wood, too.  But sometimes you think, well, I'm going to lay up because it makes it a bit easier, but you get down there with a lob wedge and you're going to make sure that you don't spin it too much.  You don't want to hit over the green with a lob wedge, because that's not a good shot, but you have to make sure that you don't spin it too much because it's going in the water.

So sometimes you try to get a little cute, and, you know, catch it just a little heavy like he did, and that's the way it goes.  So, you know, unfortunately I didn't do too well with my putt there, but at the end, I finally finished with a nice 18th hole.
Q.  For a change?
SERGIO GARCIA:  Yeah.  (Laughing).
Q.  All square now, do you think this gives you an advantage for tomorrow?
SERGIO GARCIA:  Well, definitely better than if he would have finished 12  or 13 under and would have been two or three shots in front of me.

It gives me an advantage    as we play the back nine, it does give me an advantage now, but it doesn't tomorrow.  No, tomorrow it's level up and we've got to go there and we're going to play well.  Monty is playing well, so I know that I'm not going to be able to go out there and shoot 70 and 71 and win this tournament, unless the weather changes a lot.

So it's going to be difficult.  It's going to be very difficult.  Monty is playing well, he's hitting the ball very nicely.  He hit a couple of bad shots today, but he was spot on most of the way.  He's rolling the ball nicely.  He made some nice putts, too, and I've got to realize that it's going to be very tough tomorrow.
Q.  Do you enjoy Colin as a playing partner?
SERGIO GARCIA:  Sure.  We have a good relationship due to Ryder Cups and getting to know each other a little better.  I do enjoy playing with him.  You know, he's very respectful.  He never    I mean, he always says, "Good shot" or "good putt" or "good birdie," doesn't matter what's going on.  So even after he doubled 17, I hit a good shot into 18, he still came and said, "Great shot."  So that's nice.  That says a lot from a player, and I do really enjoy playing with him, yeah.
Q.  How much of a factor will his race for the Order of Merit be tomorrow?  Does he protect his lead?  Does he go for it?  That has to be in the back of his mind; whereas you don't have that.
SERGIO GARCIA:  No, I don't think that's    I don't know.  Probably you should ask him, but I don't think that's going to be a big factor, because it's quite he's quite clear of Michael.  To win the Order of Merit, he doesn't need to do much.

But hopefully, to win this tournament, I'm going to make him do a lot, so that's what my goal is going to be.  I don't think it's going to be a factor.  We're going to go out there tomorrow and try to win the tournament, and then whatever comes with that, it's good.
Q.  You probably missed a few putts today that you would have expected to make.
SERGIO GARCIA:  I did.  I did, but at least coming in when I had to make them, I made most of them, and that's nice to see.  I made a big putt on 13 after I hit it a bit too hard and lipped out.

I made a big putt on 14 for par there, very good par.  And then I got it going.  I hit some really good shots and I made some nice putts.

Unfortunately 17, I just didn't trust it, and that's what happens.  It doesn't matter how good the greens are, if you get there and you don't trust your line, you're going to struggle to make it.  So that was a bit of a shame.

But, you know, I'm still very happy with the way I finished.
Q.  Who do you think is the European No. 1, is it the player who wins the Order of Merit, or is it the player who is leading in the World Rankings?
SERGIO GARCIA:  Well, I think Europe's No. 1 is the one that of course wins the Order of Merit, because he's been No. 1 in Europe.

You know, I feel like I'm doing a good job.  I feel like I'm trying to improve every year, trying to get better as time goes by.  Hopefully I'll get the chance of winning The European Tour Order of Merit soon.  But for me, it's impossible to do it this year now, but hopefully soon.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT