WGC AMERICAN EXPRESS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 6, 2005
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
How do you feel you did today and how did the course present in your eyes?
SERGIO GARCIA:  Pretty happy about it.  I think I played quite solid.  I hit one really bad shot on 8 and it cost me a bogey.  But I feel good about it.  And for some reason, the course seemed to play fairly easy today.  The pins weren't very tough.  Some of them were pretty much in the middle of the greens, so I just am expecting the course to get tougher as the week goes on.
Q.  Other guys have been saying the opposite, that the pins were tucked.
SERGIO GARCIA:  Think so?
Q.  That's what they've been saying.
SERGIO GARCIA:  I can only tell you what I felt.  I did hit some good shots and I did hit it quite close on a lot of holes.  I did miss some birdie opportunities here and there, but it didn't feel like the pins were    maybe a couple of them, but other than that it didn't feel too tough to me.
Q.  Even though the season is kind of winding down for you guys, for the European Ryder Cup team your point system just started in September, so it would be awfully nice going into the holiday season to get some good stuff under your belt.
SERGIO GARCIA:  Absolutely.  I won Switzerland, so that helped on the Ryder Cup standings.  So it will be nice to    okay, last week, it would be nice to have another good week here.  It would be nice to get it going and start shaping myself into that team.  I'm looking forward to that.  The only thing I can do is just keep working hard at it and give it my best shot.
Q.  Did the wind change the conditions at all for you?
SERGIO GARCIA:  A little bit on the last couple of holes.  It got a bit cooler.  The wind was a bit cooler, so you could see the ball wasn't going quite as far.  But the course is firming up quite nicely.  You were hitting your balls    you just have to be a bit careful with some of the runouts, but the course played quite nice.
Q.  (Inaudible).
SERGIO GARCIA:  If you're driving the ball well, yes, you can.  I mean, Monty, for example, he played great.  He hit a lot of good fairways, and he shot a pretty simple 6 under par.  He made a couple nice par putts on the back nine, but other than that, he was pretty much in control all day.
Q.  You were focusing on your own game, but what is it about Monty?  He played well last week.  Is there something he's obviously doing well or better?
SERGIO GARCIA:  No, I think six or seven years ago he was playing amazing, and now it looks like he's playing pretty well again.  I got the pleasure of playing with him today.  He struck the ball very nicely.  He hit a lot of good iron shots and a lot of good drives, and it seems like he's playing a little bit better, so he was in good form.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT