BOOZ ALLEN CLASSIC
June 11, 2005
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
SERGIO GARCIA:  I hit a couple bad drives.  I hit a really bad one on 17, but I got away with it.  I made a great par there.  You know, unfortunately I didn't birdie any of the par 5s.  I played 6 wonderful and 3 putted from 25 feet.  And then 9, I had a good birdie chance from about ten feet and I didn't birdie 15.

You know, I'm a bit disappointed there, but other than that, I think I played solid.  I hit a lot of greens.  I hit a good amount of fairways and, you know, I made a couple of putts when I needed to.
Q.  When you're as long as you are, is that possibly the most frustrating aspect of a round when you're not able to fully take advantage of the par 5s?
SERGIO GARCIA:  Yeah, but, I mean, you know, they come and go.  Sometimes you play them better and sometimes you don't.  It's disappointing because I hit good drives on 9 and 6, and I didn't convert those having good chances.

On 15, I just hit it a bit left and caught a bad lie and it became a long hole.  But, you know, I've just got to keep doing the same things, and hopefully I can give myself a chance tomorrow.
Q.  You have such a wonderful relationship with both your mom and your dad, what does it mean, your dad, a club professional, out walking the 18th holes with you; tonight over dinner you can analyze and almost instantly come up with corrections.
SERGIO GARCIA:  Yeah, we analyze everything.  We try to get better and that's one way of doing it and it's great to see him around.  He has not been around for a while because he's been playing in Europe on the Seniors and I'm happy for him, too.  But it's also nice to have him for a couple of weeks.
Q.  How are you holding back the enthusiasm for going to Pinehurst, a golf course absolutely built for you?
SERGIO GARCIA:  Well, I hope so.  I'm hitting the ball well.  I feel like I'm getting there with all aspects of my game, and I'm looking forward to it.  The only downside is that I've never played there.  So I've got to go there, practice a couple of rounds and feel comfortable.  If I do, you know, I should be able to have a chance to win.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT