WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 24, 2021
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. How impressive was that win for you over Lee today?
 SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, it was nice.  Tough match.  Obviously Westy is always going to be difficult.  He's been playing really well, too.  Obviously got off to a great start, made some good birdies, got a couple nice breaks, but then he kept fighting hard and he kept getting a little bit closer.
 You know, I was very, very clutch with the putts that I needed to make today, and kind of kept the pressure on him the whole round, and then obviously hit a great drive on 13 and then four really good shots on the next two holes to win it.
 Q. When you get up like you did on him kind of early, knowing how well he's been playing, does that help keep the edge, making sure -- you don't want to let him back in?
 SERGIO GARCIA:   Well, that's ideal, obviously, but that doesn't mean that -- we've seen many matches that are 3- or 4-up early on and then all of a sudden the guy comes back around and turns it around.
 Obviously it was important to start well like I did.  Made some good birdies early on.  But that didn't mean that the game was over.
 Q. On the point you just made, I know match play lends itself to being an up-and-down ebb and flow, but does this course lend itself to that, too, like later on the back nine holes could flip easily in a match?
 SERGIO GARCIA:   Without a doubt.  I think that there's a lot of risk-reward kind of holes on the back nine.  Well, everywhere but on the back nine more than anything.  You know, it's a very fine line between hitting a great shot and kind of looking stupid, kind of looking a little silly.
 Fortunately for me I played well.  I hit some really good shots when I needed, and I made some nice putts when I needed.
 Q. Obviously living here now and feel the hometown crowd kind of coming out and supporting you out here today?
 SERGIO GARCIA:   Yeah, I've always felt like I've gotten great support all over the world and all around the country.  I definitely feel it a little bit more here, now that we're spending a little bit more time.  Made a lot of good friends here in Austin.  It's an awesome city.  Really, really enjoy our time here, and it's nice to go out there and play well, not only for me but for them.
 Q. Does it help sleeping in your own bed this week and kind of being able to go back through a more normal process not being in a hotel?
 SERGIO GARCIA:   Without a doubt.  We don't get to do that very often throughout the year, so it's nice to be able to stay not at home but at our home here in the U.S.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT