BUICK INVITATIONAL
January 20, 2005
Sergio Garcia
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
SERGIO GARCIA:  Trying to get myself in a good position for the weekend.
Q.  You've worked so hard on your swing the last year and a half two years, doesn't look like you're forcing anything, are you comfortable with your swing?

SERGIO GARCIA:  I'm swinging it really nicely.  I feel like I have a lot of control with my ball flight, and you know it's just a matter of keep getting my putter going a little bit.

I went to -- inaudible -- worked on my putting and we looked at some really nice things.  I feel like I'm getting a nice roll and just a matter of time of waiting for it to happen.
Q.  What was going for you today?

SERGIO GARCIA:  Really, nothing really worked until the last four holes.  I felt like I hit a lot of good shots and a good amount of fairways and really good putts.  Unfortunately I couldn't really hole anything until that putt on 6 for eagle.  Then I hit it stiff on the next two, but unfortunately just underhit my putter a little bit.
Q.  How long was your putt for eagle?

SERGIO GARCIA:  It was probably about a 30-footer.
Q.  Do you agree that's great on the South?

SERGIO GARCIA:  Definitely.  Anything under par on this course is always good stuff.  It feels really nice to be able to finish.  Of course, you know, it would have been nice to make that last one, but it feels really nice to be 3-under par on this course when you know, it felt like I wasn't going to be able to make a birdie all day even though I was hitting very good shots.
Q.  What's it like playing with Vijay?  Do you enjoy playing golf with him?

SERGIO GARCIA:  Of course.  I love playing golf with Vijay.  He's a great guy and of course we all know how good of a player he is.  We have a lot of fun together, we talk a little bit and we have some laughs.  He's a funny guy, so he's actually a very nice guy to play with.


TIGER WOODS:  I felt better than I did last week.  I was in bed most of the time.
Q.  You got away with some shots on the back nine but you still shot 69; you have to be pretty pleased with that?

TIGER WOODS:  Very pleased because today was a day that I got a lot out of my round because I probably should not have got what I shot.  I didn't feel like I was very strong out there, but, you know, hey, I hung in there and made a few putts and lo and behold, I shot a round under par.
Q.  We were talking about it on the air, you don't feel strong, yet the strongest part of your game is the mental game.  You look like you willed the ball into the hole.

TIGER WOODS:  I'm grinding out there.  I don't have the skills that I normally do, but, hey, I've just got to go out there and play and just try and survive and hopefully feel a little better tomorrow and hopefully get stronger each and every day.
Q.  You were tinkering with your swing on the way in, do you feel good enough to go practice?

TIGER WOODS:  No, I'm going to bed right now.
Q.  Just not feeling well?

TIGER WOODS:  I've lost about seven pounds.  I'm not 100%, that's for sure.
Q.  To play 3-under on this course not feeling well --

TIGER WOODS:  I got a lot out of the round because I didn't hit it particularly well, but I made some putts and just hung in there with my putter and thank goodness that I made those putts.
Q.  The flu?

TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, most of last week, yeah.
Q.  Glad to get this side of the course done first?

TIGER WOODS:  Yeah, considering that -- looking on that board, everybody on the North Course is just tearing it apart.  So hopefully tomorrow I can go out there and do about the same.
Q.  What's it been mostly for you, physically or mental --

TIGER WOODS:  I'd much rather be in bed right now.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT