WGC AMERICAN EXPRESS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 30, 2004
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
My goodness, you played well all day long.  Even though there's a little frustration, you have to really like this round of golf.
SERGIO GARCIA:  Definitely.  I think as everybody saw, it was a pretty simple 5-under.  I bogeyed the last, but I hit my worst drive all day.  It was playing tough, that hole.  I was more worried about the 5 on 17, because I felt like I hit a good drive, I hit a good second shot, and unfortunately it was three feet short of being perfect and plugged and I thought I hit a very good bunker shot and it just didn't roll.

It was one of those days where I gave myself a lot of good birdie chances, a lot of 15-footers for birdie.  I managed to make a couple on the front nine, and unfortunately didn't make as many on the back, but it was good to play that consistent all day long.
Q.  Your last round here two years ago was a record setting round of I think 62.  You handled the golf course very well today, so you have to like it and you've got to feel particularly confident, I think.
SERGIO GARCIA:  I think I'm hitting the ball nicely.  I feel like I'm playing well.  I feel like my putting stroke is much better, the best it's ever been.  I'm running on a bit of confidence from the Ryder Cup and I'm looking forward to keep doing well these next few days.
Q.  That was about what you had hoped for for today?
SERGIO GARCIA:  Yeah, definitely.  I think it was a very solid day.  You know, it was a pretty simple 5-under.  Unfortunately that 5 on 17 and the 5 on the last, you know, it's not the way you want to finish, but other than that, I felt like I played well all day.  I felt like I gave myself a lot of chances.  I took a couple on the front nine.  Unfortunately I didn't make many after 16 on the back nine, but it was a pretty nice day.
Q.  So the game is going quite nicely at the moment.  How good is it?  You're not thinking too much about the game, don't have to put too much into it at the moment?
SERGIO GARCIA:  Not really.  The most important thing, I've been hitting the ball nicely pretty much all year long, but the most important thing is I feel comfortable with my putter.  Even the putts that weren't going in, they were burning the edges.  It's nice to hit consistently good putts and see that you give yourself the best chances possible of making them.  So I think that's one of the biggest reasons why I'm so relaxed on the course.
Q.  Putt well, score well.  Keep it going.
SERGIO GARCIA:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT