THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
November 5, 2004
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  (Inaudible). 
SERGIO GARCIA:  Yeah, well, definitely.  I would say that the whole game has improved, there's no doubt.  I'm driving the ball a little bit better, not that I've driven it well, but I'm probably driving it a little bit better.  My iron shots are definitely much better than they used to be, more consistent.  As you can see, I hit a lot more greens than I used to.

Also now towards the end my putting is starting to come back a little bit, too, so that always helps to get your score down a little bit.
Q.  (Inaudible).
SERGIO GARCIA:  Yeah, I worked really hard on it.  It looks like things are finally starting to come around, probably since I would have to say Switzerland, the Omega.
Q.  (Inaudible).
SERGIO GARCIA:  That started kicking in last year here in Atlanta, the American Express Championship.  I mean, it was definitely much better than it had been, and it started to get better and better.  Fortunately I kept working on it.  Since then I felt my game was starting to go another way, it was just a matter of getting my short game to work a little bit better.
Q.  I know you've talked about this.  You took a little lag out of it.  Can you in a sentence or two talk about that, the basic change?
SERGIO GARCIA:  Well, the basic change is the posture and the takeaway.  I'm taller on the posture, so what that helps with is to go more in line as I go back instead of going outside.  I used to go outside and then I would lay it off coming just as I go to the top.

Now I go more in line and kind of straight up so I don't have to lag it as much.
Q.  Are you happy about today?
SERGIO GARCIA:  Not really, no.  It was a tough day.  It was blowing quite a bit.  I don't know, I just had a hard time just getting into it.  You know, when I was making a couple birdies here and there and I tried to get something going, then a bogey would come or a double like what happened on 13, caught a big flyer and couldn't even make bogey.  It was a bit of a shame, but yeah, what can you do?  The year is almost over, and we're definitely looking forward to having a couple more good weeks and having a nice rest.
Q.  1-over, and if the lead is at 4 or 5 with a couple of rounds to go --
SERGIO GARCIA:  Yeah, I'd say so, yeah.  The weather I think is supposed to be similar to what it is, so as it gets firmer -- the greens were much, much quicker than they were yesterday and quite a bit firmer.  As it gets firmer, it's just going to play tougher.  If you manage to get a couple good, low rounds, probably 4- or 5-under, you probably can still have a chance.
Q.  This is a time of year when if you're going to make a change, pull a club out of your bag, put a club in your bag, this is the time of year when people tend to do that.  I know you switched Titleist to Taylor Made and you've won with both.  Are you going to switch anything, and if you were going to make a change, would it be a putter or a wedge or --
SERGIO GARCIA:  At the moment I'm happy with everything.  I've been happy for --
Q.  A couple years?
SERGIO GARCIA:  Really I haven't changed -- the only thing I was changing was putters because I was trying different things, but since NEC I haven't changed anything because I'm really happy with everything in my bag.  Once in a while I get a new wedge because the other one is getting a bit old.
Q.  How long does it take you to wear out a wedge?
SERGIO GARCIA:  Well, it depends.  It would probably take eight or nine months.
Q.  (Inaudible).
SERGIO GARCIA:  Yeah, it just starts -- the face starts getting a bit rough and with all the little rocks in the bunkers and stuff like that.
Q.  What kind of putter are you using right now?
SERGIO GARCIA:  It's a Rossa putter, Taylor Made.  I think it's called -- I can't remember.  It's a Rossa putter.
Q.  How about the driver?  You have a Quad driver?
SERGIO GARCIA:  The R7, yeah.
Q.  What are the weights in back of yours?
SERGIO GARCIA:  On the front of the heel I have a 10-gram weight, then I have a 5 on the back -- no, I have a 4 on the back and a 5 and a 4 on the front and back of the toe.
Q.  How long did you have to fiddle around to get the weights before you could go on and use it?
SERGIO GARCIA:  A little bit.  I mean, I played a little bit with it.  I probably have two or three combinations that I like, but this is probably the one I like the most.  I like the way I get my flight going.  I probably have -- depending on how the course is playing and if you need to carry it a bit farther or something, then maybe you change a little bit of the weights to get more on the ball.

As windy as it's been, it's pretty good the way it is.

Thanks, guys.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT