THE RYDER CUP MATCHES
September 17, 2004
Sergio Garcia
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.
What work best for you out there today?
LEE WESTWOOD:  Putted very well.  When one of us was out of the hole the other one was there looking at birdie or par at worst.  So it was only one hole that we were putting for bogeys on.  Which we both 3-putted, so it was, it's a great combination.  We play well together.
Q.  The putting has been outstanding.  Not just in your match but in all the Europeans it seems you've hardly missed a putt out there.  What's going on.  Do you just feel comfortable out there?
LEE WESTWOOD:  Yeah, I think we feel comfortable on the greens.  They're in excellent condition.

We used teamwork to read them.  Certainly myself and Sergio looking at each other's putts and, you know, two pairs of eyes are better than one.
Q.  Sergio, you got the first birdie of the day didn't you?  Was it important to get off to a good start against a pair like this?

SERGIO GARCIA:  Yeah, I think that was huge.  Mainly because Jim hit it really close on one.  So it was really big to make that putt.  I got to thank whoever put that big screen on the driving range because I saw Monty's putt and it gave me a great read.  I had the same putt, just a bit longer.  And so it was nice to make that.  So that was, I think that was a huge start.  We just played really, really well.  And as Lee said, when one wasn't doing good on one hole, the other one was right in there.

That's what it's all about.
Q.  Momentum is obviously huge and I expect they will come back at you at some stage and I expect you're expecting that.  Is the most important thing to avoid complacency?

SERGIO GARCIA:  Definitely.  I think the other thing you have to do is take it as a great start and just keep going with it.  I think that we don't have to go down, let down and let them come back into us.  The good thing about it is this start is going to put a lot of pressure to them and it's going to be a little better for us.  But we still have to play well.
Q.  Is there an explanation, Lee, as to why you two are such a great team.
LEE WESTWOOD:  We just get on very well.  One of the explanations might be that we both see the putts the same way.  So we're helping each other to read them.  It's, as you know, I know how hard to hit it, I know how much break to leave into it.  But I think that we just play good together because we get on so well.
Q.  Having said that you're such a great team, you're not going out this afternoon.  Was that a surprise to you, Sergio?

SERGIO GARCIA:  No, I don't think so.  I think that it's -- I feel likely's playing very well.  I think I'm not playing too bad either.  I think it's good to split us for a foursome.  Get two good players split up with another two good, other players that are also playing well.  You don't want to have your best two players together because you kind of like are losing a bit of good playing in there.  So really I feel comfortable with the partner I have this afternoon and I think Lee feels really well with the partner that he's playing with.  So we're looking forward to it.
Q.  Was it a surprise at all to you two as to the momentum Europe got is so early this morning or did you expect it.
LEE WESTWOOD:  We wanted to come out fast.  And Monty birdieing the first, we saw it on the Jumbotron down there and it gave Sergio a great read on his putt.  So we were keeping an eye on things that were happening in front.  It was going to go one way or the other with Hal putting Tiger and Phil out first.  If they won then the Americans were going to get off to a flying start and have a lot of momentum.  But if they lost, you know, it was always going to be difficult.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT