RYDER CUP MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 5, 2018
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
DAVID LIVINGSTONE: We have all four wildcard picks standing by, and we are headed to Spain.  Sergio, can you hear me?   
SERGIO GARCIA: How are you?  I can hear you.   
DAVID LIVINGSTONE: Good to hear you mand nice to see you in the sunshine of Spain, Sergio.  I'm sure you've been listening and obviously you know what's happened.  You have said so often that the Ryder Cup is just part of your blood.   
How does it feel to have Thomas Björn place this faith in you, given that perhaps over the year, you've had a disappointing one?   
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, obviously it feels amazing, very thankful to Thomas for believing in me and, you know, I know that it probably wasn't an easy decision.  I mean, he knows what I bring to the team, not only game-wise but inside the team room.   
It's been a tough year obviously.  A few of those guys that have missed by one shot; if you make the cut and have a couple good weekends, then it kind of changes a little bit.  I've been working hard.  I feel like my game is coming along.  Obviously played quiet nicely in Greensboro a couple weeks back, and now I'm trying to be as ready as I can be to help The European Team win that Cup back.  That's the goal and that's what we want.   
DAVID LIVINGSTONE: I remember you telling us some time ago that in many ways you're in the wrong sport and you prefer team sports, you prefer football in that respect, and is something you've had to live with playing on your own all these years.  But Thomas talked about it, leaving you out of The Ryder Cup Team is like leaving out the captain of Team.  Do you get what he's saying there?   
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, I totally get it.  Obviously Thomas and I, we have known each other for a long time.  We are friends and we have been talking for quite a bit throughout the year.  I understand when he says, yeah, everybody knows how much I love The Ryder Cup and everybody knows how much I love team sports and we've always really enjoyed football and all those kind of things.   
It is very exciting for me to be part of another Ryder Cup Team, and I'm going to give everything I have, like Thomas was saying, not only on the golf course, but in the team room, make sure that some of those rookies and some of the other guys feel as comfortable as possible and try to make them better and more comfortable.  You know, hopefully that helps us all to get our goal, which is winning The Ryder Cup again.   
DAVID LIVINGSTONE: Congratulations.  Great to have you on the team again.  Look forward to seeing you in Paris, and in the meantime, rest up and get your form in the best shape for Le Golf National.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT