THE RYDER CUP MATCHES
September 19, 2004
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
SERGIO GARCIA:  I think it was definitely important to have the first point for our team, but I feel like I was trying not to look at the boards because we didn't start too well.

But I really felt like I've been playing well enough this week.  I felt like I could beat him.  And I just got on a great run, 9, 10, 11.  Missed a short putt on 12 for birdie and then won 13.  And I just made a great 4 here on the last, on 16.  But I think it's great.
Q.  Was it good in a way that you went down there without a singles victory under your belt; did you feel that you really wanted to get that done?
SERGIO GARCIA:  Doesn't matter if I had a victory or not.  Every time I go and play singles, I want to win as bad as I can.  And today I wasÂ  -- I managed to play well enough to do it.  A bit shaky on the front nine, a couple holes there.  But I really felt like I hit a lot of quality shots and made some nice putts when I had to.
Q.  You had to fight hard for that one.
SERGIO GARCIA:  Yeah, I didn't get off to the best of starts.  I made a weak bogey on one to halve the hole, and Phil made a great putt on that hole to win the hole.  I got 2-down early, but I fought back.

I think Bernhard and all my teammates were behind me and I really felt the push.  I was trying hard and I got on a great run where I made three birdies in a row.  I missed a short one at 12 to go to 2-up, but then I managed to win 13.  So it was important and I wanted to finish because I want to go watch my teammates.
Q.  It was a huge run for you with all that red on the board early, wasn't it?
SERGIO GARCIA:  Yeah, I think it was big.  And I hope it helped the guys coming after me seeing that I was coming back a little bit.  And Darren was fighting hard, too, and he's here trying to get something out of it.  So we'll see how it finishes.
Q.  You turned that match around with a birdie at 9, 10 and 11.  What happened there?
SERGIO GARCIA:  Well, I think I hit three really good shots starting on 9.  I managed to put some good rolls on it and unfortunately I put my shot on 10 was bad there.  But I hit a good putt.  And I actually missed quite a short one at 12 to get four in a row.
Q.  I watched you throughout your matches this week and I don't think I've ever seen you putt the short putts better.
SERGIO GARCIA:  Yeah, I've been working really hard on my putting, trying to get a good motion on it and working it through in my head, with my head.  I've been more still than I used to be, and I think it's going to help.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT