U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2004
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Ladies and gentlemen, if I can have your attention, please.  Joining us now from the podium at plus 1 for the championship, plus 1 for the day, Sergio Garcia.
Q.  Three birdies on the back nine and three today, make you smile a little coming off the course?
 SERGIO GARCIA:  It was a hard day.  It was tough all day.  From the 6th hole on, when the wind changed and started blowing harder and harder, you know, I was really pleased being 4 over through 10 and managed to get it back to 1.

I think that was a good effort, and I feel like I still have a chance tomorrow.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 SERGIO GARCIA:  Well, definitely.  I mean it's just -- some of those greens, they're really hard.  It's really hard.  With the wind blowing today as it was, it's just hard to control your putts, to control your speed.  Some putts are really, really quick, some putts are fairly slow, so it's just -- it just feels exactly like a U.S. Open.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 SERGIO GARCIA:  I think so.  You know, I have to get to a better start than I did today.  I think if I start nice and confident and I get it going a little bit at the beginning, you know, I feel comfortable in the back nine and I feel good on it, so we'll see what happens, but it's going to be interesting to watch.
Q.  Do you think it's going to be drastically harder for everyone in the field?
 SERGIO GARCIA:  Definitely, yeah.  Today, for example, on 7, I didn't hit a good shot, I let it in the left bunker, I hit it probably to five feet just above the hole but downwind.  But what can you do?  You have to commit to it and hit it firm, so you have to have a chance of making it.  Even if you hit it, you'll probably still hit it in the bunker.  I was fortunate enough to make that one, but some of those pins just are unbelievable.  I'm actually glad to be off the course at the moment.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 SERGIO GARCIA:  For example, I feel like the pin on 8 today, it was right in the middle of the slope, and if the wind would have been blowing harder, the way it was blowing, it was on the right side of the green, and it was on the slope coming this way.  If it would have been blowing harder, it's in one of the those spots you can hit it and get it coming back straight at you.  I think that you've definitely got to be lucky it didn't blow really hard, because if it had, you would have seen some unbelievable things out there.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 SERGIO GARCIA:  You know, playing well, it was hard.  Yeah, I've had harder days where I didn't play my best, and then you really struggle.  At least I feel like I could get it back because I was hitting the ball nicely.  But it was definitely hard.  I mean it was definitely one of the best 71s I've ever shot.
Q.  Would you prefer it to be real windy and more like today tomorrow?
 SERGIO GARCIA:  I'd love it to be windy.  I love playing in the wind.  The problem is I don't know if these greens are going to take it.

So it's going to be interesting to see what happens.  But I'd love it to be windy, windy but firm.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT