ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 25, 2018
Sergio Garcia
Rafa Cabrera Bello
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SERGIO GARCIA: (Interview in progress.)  I talked to Rafa, and I mentioned to him that that was going to come play the Zurich Class.  I asked him if he had a partner or if he was planning on playing or not.
He obviously said yes, so I am very happy to have him as my partner.  Hopefully we'll have a great week.
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: Yeah, that's accurate.  Really little more add.  He asked me early this year if I wanted to play, and of course, I mean, for me it's a huge honor, huge privilege play with such a great player like Sergio.
But more than that, just playing with a friend and bringing back the memories from Ryder Cup, that's going to be special.
THE MODERATOR: You're having a good season on TOUR.  Couple top 10s, World Golf Championship and so forth.  Sergio, you played once here before.
SERGIO GARCIA: Long time ago.
THE MODERATOR: I know it was 2010.  You had a chance to get out in the pro-am and see the course.  Did that get you off to a good start?
SERGIO GARCIA: Yes.  I mean, it was nice to be out here.  I mean, it's my first time in New Orleans.  I still haven't got see as much of the city as I would like.  I had a walk around yesterday and I liked it.
I think the course is in great shape.  It's a very nice course.  I don't think it necessarily suits to any type of player.  You have to hit good tee shots, good iron shots, and the greens are pretty small and tricky.  Lots of thinking required this week I think.
THE MODERATOR: Open it up for questions.
Q. For both of you, talk about discussing strategy.  Did you talk about it today?  How did you figure strategy on each hole?
SERGIO GARCIA: Well, pretty much strategy is going to be mainly in foursomes.  We have talked about who is going to tee up on the odds and the evens.
But then when it comes down four ball, it's just a matter of how aggressive you want to be, how -- you know, how you feel at that time, I guess.
You obviously want to try to have two balls in play as much as possible so you give yourself a lot of options, a lot of opportunities.
But, you know, I think we have a fairly good plan, a pretty good plan, and hopefully we'll be able to deliver.
Q. A lot of golfers have talked about how they like this tournament.  It's a break from the normal grind.  Talk about playing this tournament, how it's nice to play with a friend and not have all that pressure on you.
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, I mean, I think it's great.  We play 72 rounds, 72 holes the majority of the weeks.  We don't get to play this format hardly at all.  World Cup or Ryder Cup-up, Presidents Cup, so I think it's great idea.
For the event it adds special value.  You have the opportunity to pick your partner as well and play -- mostly like you're playing with a really good friend of yours so there is going to be good camaraderie.
Everyone will be in a good mood.  No one is going to complain about the pairings this week.  So I mean, all in all, it's just a great idea.
Q. How will your games complement each other this week?
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, I think they suit nicely as everyone was able to see at the Ryder Cup.  Offensively Rafa is a very consistent player.  Usually my ball striking is pretty good.  We usually do well in that aspect.
And if our short game is in good shape, we're usually going to be doing good things.  I think we complement each other well.
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: For me it's great.  I'm just playing with a better version of me, so it's fantastic.
Q. A lot of golfers this week talked about how on Sunday the alternate --
SERGIO GARCIA: Closer, please.  I can't hear you.
Q. The alternate shot format on Sunday is going to add for a lot of moment in the leaderboard.  Would you guys agree with that assessment?
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, I would say so.  I would think that obviously foursomes is the tougher of the formats.  You can -- I think in four ball you can have a really good round and shoot maybe 12, 13-under as a team.  But, you know, usually the other pairings are going to shoot at least 7 or 8.  You can make some ground there.
But in foursomes, if you play really, really well, you could shoot 7- or 8-under and somebody could shoot 1- or 2-under or even par easily in that format and you can make a lot of ground for sure.
Q. Sergio, obviously a tough masters.  To put it in perspective, because there you are on Sunday giving the winner's jacket away being very gracious.  Talk about overcoming that hole and putting it all behind you?
SERGIO GARCIA: It's fine.  I mean, it's a lot of things that happen, and unfortunately happened to me.  There is nothing really to talk about anymore.  I think that the Masters is past, and I'll be looking forward to going back there next year.
Now there is a lot of great tournaments to play for and prepare for, so that's what I want to look at.
If I may add, I think it doesn't (sound interruption.)  It doesn't really matter.  You have the green jacket.  So I hope I can be the next one.
Q. (Indiscernible) Sergio, I am assuming you didn't watch any replay.
SERGIO GARCIA: Why would I?  (Laughter.)  Like if you trip and hit your head against a rock, would you like to see it over and over again?
Q. This question is for both of you.  Today is National Golf Day.  I would just like to know what attracted you to golf?  What do you love about the sport of golf as opposed to other sports?
SERGIO GARCIA: Well, in my case, I love everything about golf.  I love how difficult it is.  I love when you think you have it under control and it slaps you in the face and kind of puts you back where you belong.
I love the friendships that you can make in golf, the people you get to meet not only playing in tournaments, but in Pro-Ams and corporate days and stuff like that.
You get to meet a lot of great people and they get to play with one of their favorite golfers.  I think it brings a lot of great things to be a part of the game.  That's why I love it.
RAFA CABRERA BELLO: I mean, I think I fell in love with the sport very little when I started.  I mean, I used to go with my brother and sister, my parents.  It was a good family activity for us.
Obviously that never-ending quest of trying to get better and how challenging and difficult it is, it's always that fight against yourself trying to become better.
You can go out there with friends, go out there with family, go out there with people of different levels, and you can all win; you can all lose.  It's really, really fantastic.
Or go out there on your own and play.  So it's very, very complete.  Now that I've gotten to know it better, the competition as a professional, I love competing.  The value in sport are fantastic, but I'm very proud of the values in golf in particular.
THE MODERATOR: All right, thank you very much.  Appreciate your time.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT