U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 18, 2004
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Joining us on the podium, 2-under par today, even for the championship, Sergio Garcia.
Q.  Three birdies on the back?
 SERGIO GARCIA:  Well, to tell you the truth, I didn't feel like I had to turn it around.  I felt like I played well all day.  Unfortunately on the front nine, I was just cruising at 1-under, pretty easily, I was giving myself birdie chances, unfortunately I left three of them just on the lip short, and then I got to 9 and three-putted and ended up shooting par and was a bit disappointed.

But after that I felt like I played pretty well on the back nine.  Unfortunately I three-putted 12, but I got it back nicely, I birdied 13, 15 and 16.
Q.  Is this where you want to be going into the weekend?  Obviously you want to get some strokes back?
 SERGIO GARCIA:  I'd like to be where Maruyama is, but I feel pretty good.  It was nice.  I went out thinking if I can manage to shoot no more than even par today, I can hopefully get some red numbers going.  I managed to shoot a couple numbers, so I'm happy with that.
Q.  At Augusta you seemed to be harder on yourself.  You seem to be a little bit more confident and content with the way you're playing right now?
 SERGIO GARCIA:  I was happy with the way I was playing there, too, it was just one of those things.  But that aside, I feel good, although I'm not feeling as comfortable as I can feel on this course, mainly off the tee.  I'm getting there.  I'm getting a better confidence level.

If I keep doing that, I manage to shoot a decent round tomorrow, I'll put myself with a chance on Sunday.
Q.  There's two schools of thought going into tomorrow; some people say that they'd like the wind to come up, it would separate the men from the boys.  Others say this is hard enough, we don't need wind.  What do you think?
 SERGIO GARCIA:  I think I would like to see the wind come up; I think that's the way they meant it to be played.  I'd love to see it come up.  I think it would separate everybody.  It would separate the guys that are hitting the ball extremely well from the ones that are struggling a little bit.  That should be fun.  Hopefully it will come up.

They're saying that at least it looks like it's going to come up on Sunday.  Hopefully it will start tomorrow, and we'll see what happens.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT