BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 20, 2018
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How is the game at the moment?  It's hard to look at people's form after the chaos that was at times last week.  How are you feeling coming into the week?  
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, I mean, obviously yeah, last week was tough.  But you know, I feel like I'm working hard on it.  This has been a good place for me, so hopefully a get a bit of good MoJo going and get some good momentum.  I need it going into the summer, and hopefully we'll start right here.   
 Q.  You always seem to do well here.  We were in Munich last year, tied second and I think you had a top five the year before that.  What is it about this tournament for you?  
SERGIO GARCIA: I've always enjoyed it.  We obviously have a great relationship with BMW and Germany, for that matter.  It's always been fun to come back here and play regularly at the BMW International Open and hopefully we'll make another good one this week.   
 Q.  Speaking golf ones, a World Cup question.  Thoughts, feelings, predictions about the World Cup?  
SERGIO GARCIA: Well, I think it's been interesting.  It's nice to see, you know, it's been goals pretty much in every game since it started, so that's nice to see.   
But I think that Spain looked pretty good.  I think the game against Portugal was really nice.  We probably should have won but it was a well-played game and probably the best match so far.   
We need a win today and if we can manage to do that, everything kind of gets a little bit easier from then onwards to the knockout stages.  Hopefully we'll be able to get very, very far.   
 Q.  A second place at this event last year.  What are your memories of last year?  It was a pretty exciting final day?  
SERGIO GARCIA: It was.  I remember playing with Richard Bland.  It was in Munich obviously, different golf course, but it was a great BMW International Open, like they all are.  Marco and BMW and the whole team, they do a great job with this event, so, excited about it.   
Hopefully we can have another good run at it.  It would be nice to kind of get going a little bit.   
 Q.  What do you enjoy about this event, a place where you've always done pretty well.  
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, I've always enjoyed coming to Germany, playing here.  It's always been good fun.  We've been fortunate to do quite well.  I haven't been able to win it yet, but it's something that I'd love to do, and I will hopefully give it a good shot this week.   
 Q.  It's a different course, but a course that you've been at before.  Had a look at it this morning.  How is it looking out there?  
SERGIO GARCIA: The course is great.  The course is probably the best shape I've seen it since we started playing here.  It's good to see the course like that.  I think I've done well on this course before in the past.  You know, it's all there to hopefully play well, and the rough is quite thick, so you have to try to hit as many fairways as possible.  But you know, if you can do that, then the course is quite playable.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT