THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY DYNEGY
November 4, 2001
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  You came from so far back that it's got to be a confidence builder and a learning experience.  What are your thoughts?

SERGIO GARCIA:  Yeah, it was good.  I won my second tournament in Europe, I won in a playoff, and this one, unfortunately, I played bad.  You have to hit a good drive when you have to, and you make a good putt there and you win the playoff.  That's why they call it sudden death.  And unfortunately, I wasn't able to do it.  But it still feels great.  It was a great thrill.  And I'm glad that I was able to get in the playoff. 

Q.  Talk about your lie, your options and what you tried to do.

SERGIO GARCIA:  Well, first of all, I hit a bad drive.  Hooked it right.  It looked like it hit the trees and went further right.  So I got a nice drop and I had 120 yards to the hole.  I had to hit like a high wedge through a three-foot gap probably about 30 feet up in the air about 25 yards in front of me, and it was probably seven inches short of being perfect.  It hit just the last branch.  And I got it right, and it was a tricky lie, and I hit it thin over the green.  And then the great chip that I felt I made it.  And I thought I gave myself a chance to -- maybe Mike would have missed his putt to go to the next hole.  But that was it. 

Q.  The drop you got there, talk about that.

SERGIO GARCIA:  Well, the shot I wanted to hit, one of the grandstands was in my line.  So I got relief from that. 

Q.  Looking back, how was your season this year?

SERGIO GARCIA:  I had a couple of bad tournaments, but all in all, it's been just a very consistent year.  I had two wins here, one in Europe, two seconds.  Probably about, I would say about  -- usually about 10 top tens.  I think that's a great year.  So I'm just really happy the way I played and just looking forward to winning next year.

Q.  When you look at this year, you sit down and think about next year, what kind of goals will you write down?

SERGIO GARCIA:  Well, most of all, I'll try to improve.  Winning is tough, I know that.  And I'm going to come back and I'm going to try to play the best I can, and if I could win six, it would be great.  If I win one, it will be great.  Winning is great, and I'll try to do that.  And as soon as I get in a rhythm, I'll try to win as many as I can. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)

SERGIO GARCIA:  It was in one of the grandstands on the right. 

Q.  How long was the chip on 18?

SERGIO GARCIA:  It was about 85 feet. 

Q.  David Toms mentioned that you were out here on the driving range waiting to play and watching everybody come in and having fun.

SERGIO GARCIA:  Yeah, it was great.  As I said before, the thrill of waiting to see who was going to play and if it was a playoff.  And to see guys like Mike Weir and David Toms and Ernie get into the range and have a good time and play in the playoff.  It was a great finish.  It was the first one I had in a year, and I'm glad it was in this tournament.  It was a good way to finish. 

Q.  The degree of difficulty, where would that shot range over there in the trees?

MIKE WEIR:  The second shot?  Ill say from 1 to 10, with 10th highest, 9 and a half.  The other -- it's the only one I had to hit.  I couldn't hit anything else.  I knew that they were in the fairway and Ernie was on the green, and I knew that any of those two were going to hit it close, and you can always hope that they miss the putts and maybe you go to the next hole, but I knew that I had to put it on the green, at least, or maybe in the bunker to give myself a chance of making birdie on it or anything. 

Q.  Ernie put his hands around you and his arm around you and you had a little laugh.  What was that about?

SERGIO GARCIA:  Nothing.  He was telling me that I gave him a great line on the chip, because his ball was on a similar line.  We were kind of joking about that a little. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)

SERGIO GARCIA:  I'm looking forward to those great greens that they have and I'm looking to play well.  I'm looking forward to coming back.  I didn't go last year and I really am looking forward to it. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)

SERGIO GARCIA:  No, no, I'll say that we're just trying to make  -- trying, of course, to hit a great shot to make birdie and win the tournament.  Of course, to do that you have to try to pull the best shot you can. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)

SERGIO GARCIA:  Here you never know.  You play for par, then Mike makes birdie and that's it.  So you just got to try to make birdie if you can.  If you don't, that's it. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT