THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY DYNEGY
November 2, 2001
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  (Inaudible)

SERGIO GARCIA: A little better.  It hurts a little bit.  The putter is the thing that's bothering me now.  I am hitting some weird putts.  I haven't done this in my whole life.  I have to figure something out. 

Q.  Having trouble reading the greens?

SERGIO GARCIA: No.  I am just hitting bad putts.

Q.  (Inaudible) Talk about your day.

SERGIO GARCIA:  I think it was great.  Unfortunately, I felt like  -- I kind of felt better yesterday with the 2-iron there.  Today I was shooting 4-under because I just felt like today two shots (inaudible) easily 7-under, would not happen anything.  A couple of bad breaks on 2, I had a great lob wedge, hit the pin, then missed a couple really short putts.  What can you do?  I'm still there and looking forward to see what I can do tomorrow.

Q.  Looks like a lot of guys are dealing with injuries.  Now you are talking about your back at such a young age.  What are your thoughts on that?

SERGIO GARCIA:  Well, my thought is that it hurts.  That's one of my thoughts.  I have never had an injury or anything.  I think I just have a knot in my back and it just hurts a little, and I just have to deal with it.  It's one of those things, maybe I slept in a bad position or one of those silly things that happens. 

Q.  In golf there's really no off-season.  It is very short.  As far as your preparation goes, is it hard to do that in this sport?

SERGIO GARCIA:  Yeah, well, I will have my time off as soon as I finish in December, I will have four weeks off.  I will take a nice rest there and hopefully the back will get better and better and it will be okay.  If not, I don't know what I will have to do.  It all depends how it holds.

Q.  Swinging?

SERGIO GARCIA:  No, it actually hurts on the practice swing, it hurts a little on the follow-through because it looks like I kind of (inaudible) it hurts and a little bit.  Other than that it is okay.

Q.  How do you think you did it?

SERGIO GARCIA:  I don't know.  If I can tell you I would be so happy.  I guess I slept in a bad position or something.  Just woke up one morning and it was hurting.

Q.  Aggressive sleeper?

SERGIO GARCIA:  I guess so (laughs).


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT