THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 12, 2021
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. How would you assess your round today?
 SERGIO GARCIA:   It was a beautiful roller coaster.  That's for sure.  Yeah, there were a lot of good things.  Unfortunately a lot of bad things.  But more than anything there was a lot of fighting, and that's one of the things that I'm most proud of because when things are not really happening and you miss a couple putts here and there, it's easy to kind of let the round get away from you.  Fortunately for me I was able to keep it together and obviously had a great finish the last three holes, so very proud of that.
 Q. How big was that eagle on 11 to kind of get you back kind of into it?
 SERGIO GARCIA:   Yes, it was important, without a doubt, because I was coming off not birdieing 9 that I felt that I played quite well and unfortunately didn't do it, and I three-putted 10, so it was important to get something really good on our side and kind of bring me back -- bring back a little bit of peace on me.
 That was obviously important, but then I kind of gave it away and I had to kind of get it back again.
 Q. When you have a couple of missed putts like that, do you do something after a round to try to work on it, or do you just put it out of your mind?
 SERGIO GARCIA:   No, as soon as we're done here I'll probably go and hit a couple of putts to make sure I get a good feel of it and try to work it out a little bit.
 Q. With you and Lee both 40 plus hanging around the top of the leaderboard, do you get any pleasure from -- obviously you're happy to still be competitive, but at this age do you take pride in where you guys are?
 SERGIO GARCIA:   Without a doubt.  I think that you take pride no matter what age you are, but as you get older, without a doubt you're proud of anything that you do.  It doesn't get any easier.
 You know, I think Lee is playing unbelievable again, and I'm playing quite well.  It's nice to see both things.
 Q. He's talked about how he cares less about outcomes now, he's not as concerned when bad things happen on the golf course.  Do you have that as well or do you still have that fire?
 SERGIO GARCIA:   I wish I did.  It's easy to say and difficult to do because at the end of the day we are all competitors, and we want to do well.  For me it's not the same if I make a bogey or a par or a birdie, so nobody can tell you that.  If someone is telling you that, then he's probably lying.
 It's great to see him playing well.  Obviously he's a good friend of mine, and I always wish him the best, and hopefully we'll be there on Sunday.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT