WGC ANDERSEN CONSULTING MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 24, 2000
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SERGIO GARCIA: I can tell you I feel much better than yesterday. I played real well
today, I played some great golf. And Mike missed a couple of short putts on the first
three and that gave me a lot of confidence. And after that I had a good momentum going on
on 6, 7, 8 and 9 with four birdies in a row. And of course now with a birdie on 12.

SERGIO GARCIA: Yes, it's always great to play that kind of golf and hit in close and
making the putts. So you never know what's going to happen tomorrow, but of course I'll be
more confident tomorrow than I probably was the first day.

Q. Is that the best you played this year, Sergio?

SERGIO GARCIA: It was a regular round, but I played really well the second and the
third round in Australia. I played really well, I even shot I think it was four and
5-under, I should have shot less than that. But probably, yeah, I would say it was the
best, but not by much.

Q. Anything that brought it on, particularly?

SERGIO GARCIA: This round? 

Q. Yes.

SERGIO GARCIA: Well, everything went pretty well. I hit the driver really well, just
missed a couple of ones. I hit pretty good iron shots, too. And I made a couple of good
putts and that's what you need to shoot your rounds. You can play really well, but you
have to make some putts.

Q. Did you change anything before today?

SERGIO GARCIA: No, just the normal way. Sometimes you do it and sometimes you don't. So
what do you do? You try your best. 

Q. Excited about playing David tomorrow?

SERGIO GARCIA: Has he already won? 

Q. I presume he is.

SERGIO GARCIA: Well, if he wins, okay. If he doesn't, then I'm excited to play with
Tim. 

Q. What do you think of these greens? People are missing a lot of short putts, and I
guess just like in LA, you weren't there but the poa annua causes you to miss?

SERGIO GARCIA: I've always said that the poa annua if it's dry and fast it's probably
one of the best greens you can play. But if it's wet, it's difficult because you can see a
lot of footprints. Sometimes you just have to go there and trust your stroke and let's
hope that it doesn't kick the wrong way. But it's tough because you can have a 4-footer
and see a couple of footprints and start thinking, well, is it going to kick right, is it
going to kick left. So you just have to trust your stroke, and hope that it goes in the
hole. 

Q. Sergio, are you any further forward on whether you'll play in the Seve Ballesteros
tournament?

SERGIO GARCIA: Right now I'm in the MCI. So I don't know what I'm going to do. But
right now I'm going to play the MCI.

Q. Have you spoken to Ken Schofield since you arrived here?

SERGIO GARCIA: No.

Q. Have you spoken to Seve at all?

SERGIO GARCIA: No.

Q. What if he has a word with you and asks you to play as a favor?

SERGIO GARCIA: I don't know, it depends. I'll talk to him. After talking to him I'll
decide. But right now I'm not in there.

Q. Sergio, how different do you feel after your match today than yesterday, is there
confidence after the way you played today?

SERGIO GARCIA: Yesterday after 12 holes I was 1-under, and today I was six under, so
that's a big difference. And I don't know, it was easier to score today, the weather was
better, there was a little wind, but yesterday it was pretty awful with the rain and the
strong winds we had. But I just made more putts today and hit them closer. I hit some
breaking shots and, well, that was the biggest difference. But of course I made a couple
more putts and that gave me a lot of confidence

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT