THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 22, 2000
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 SERGIO GARCIA: I am really looking forward. It is a great place. The course is awesome
and perfect shape. And I have never had the chance of playing here, and I am really
looking forward to that. I think it is a great challenge. It is a tough course. And you
really have to play -- you have to hit the ball really straight from the tees, and you
have to pitch it on the perfect spot on the greens, because, if not, if you go a little
long or if you miss it on the wrong side of the green, you are going to have some very
difficult up-and-downs. 
 
Q. You played a practice round yesterday with Tiger. Is that friendship really budding
now? 
 
 SERGIO GARCIA: I think we have been good buddies since probably Masters. We are getting
a good relationship, and it is always great to play with him or Mark O'Meara, one of these
guys. 
 
Q. How does that help you?
 
 SERGIO GARCIA: Well, it helps. Of course it helps. But what helps is I have never
played this course, so Mark and him, they have played this course and John Cook too, we
played with him too, they know this course. And they told me how to, you know, to take
care of a couple of things, and on the golf course. And I will have that in my mind and
try to play my best. 
 
Q. Colin was in here earlier and said that after Tiger shot 69 at Bay Hill in the first
round and was 1 off the lead, that there was a feeling in the locker room that the
tournament was over and it was essentially a matter of who was going to finish second. Did
you get that sense at all?
 
 SERGIO GARCIA: Well, I was -- I would say I was minding my business. But right now it
is tough. And if you -- if he starts well, you know he is going to be there because --
sometimes I would say he is incredible, because second round, Mike Weir goes, shoots 64,
it was good day to shoot a low score. But you got to go out there and shoot it. He comes
right behind and shoot another 64 to be leading, so, it is like he is not giving us too
many chances. But you know, I think we can, we should all play better. And I think that
should help us and improve our games, and hopefully we will get him. 
 
Q. There are a lot of players who have gone up against Tiger, finished second, who have
said great things about him that they go on and on about how great he is. Is that smart to
do? At some point, could it be detrimental, harmful for you to keep saying, "This guy
is the greatest," knowing that you got to go out and beat him at some point?
 
 SERGIO GARCIA: I have always said he is the greatest right now. But I don't think he is
unbeatable. You can beat him. It is tough, but you can. You just have to play your best
game, and -- but I don't know if it is for a golfer, for an opponent, it is the best thing
or not to -- I would say when you are going to play with him on the last round, you
shouldn't say too many good things, because then you are giving him more excitement and
you are kind of going a little down. So you have to trust in yourself and just try to go
out there and play your best, and knowing that he is a great player and you really have to
play well to beat him. 
 
Q. What has been the easiest or most fun thing about being over here, and what has been
the toughest?
 
 SERGIO GARCIA: I don't know. Everything has been good. I would say the toughest is that
I haven't really started really well this year. But it is all fun. I have a great time
here. I enjoy playing golf. It is a great place to play golf, and -- well, you know, when
I am three or four weeks at home, last week I am thinking, well, I want to go and play
with these guys there and try to win some tournaments. So when you take like two or three
weeks off, you kind of miss it at the end. There is a lot of good things here. There is a
couple of bad things, too, like in every single place. 
 
Q. You joked at the Byron Nelson about you liked the girls in Dallas, just different
things like that - I am not trying to draw you in, I just, you know, McDonald's or, I
mean, just different things like that, I don't know.
 
 SERGIO GARCIA: No, I like McDonald's. I try not to eat many burgers. Once in a while,
when I -- oh, I like to eat a burger. I eat it, but I try not to eat too many. I have said
there is plenty of great things. As I said, plenty of times where all the girls are great
and people is great too, courses are beautiful. And, you know, just the whole thing, the
whole package is good. 
 
Q. From both a mental and golf standpoint how difficult is it for any player to be at
his best both this week and again in two weeks at Augusta?
 
 SERGIO GARCIA: Well, it is tough. But you know, that is why we are here. I mean, if you
can only play one good one in the whole year, that is not really, I would say a great
player, so we are here because we know -- we are going to have our up-and-downs, but
hopefully we are going to have more ups than downs. So it is tough to be 100% on two great
tournaments like this one is and The Masters. 
 
Q. When you have two fields as strong and two tournaments as good, is it good to
somebody as close together as they are?
 
 SERGIO GARCIA: I think some -- I love to have this field and this kind of tournament
every single week. It would be great. But I think it is always good to have great
tournaments. Most of the tournaments are really good, but you have some that are better
than others. And, well, this one is one. Masters is another one. All four majors and this
one are really good. You always try to be as sharp as you can to play this kind of
tournaments. 
 
Q. How much different are things now to what they were last year when every new
tournament was a fresh experience, everything was new to you, you seemed fairly excited
every time you stepped onto the tee; has it change this year?
 
 SERGIO GARCIA: Not really. Right now, here, I would say this has been pretty fresh too
because, well, most of the courses I am playing I have never played them. Most of the
tournaments I am playing I have never played them, and I will start repeating after the
Spanish Open. So it is pretty fresh too. I don't think it has changed much. Maybe a little
bit, but not much. But it is still a lot of fun, and we are trying to have a good time out
there. 
 
Q. You are coming up on your one full year as a professional. What has been your
greatest accomplishment, winning on the European Tour or your playing the Ryder Cup?
 
 SERGIO GARCIA: Both. 
 
Q. Pick one.
 
 SERGIO GARCIA: I would say winning on Tour because that got me into the Ryder Cup.  
 
Q. With The Masters just a few weeks away, what are your thoughts heading into that,
and will you be doing anything this week with your game to change to work on to prepare
for Augusta?
 
 SERGIO GARCIA: No, this week you have to concentrate on this tournament, because I
think this tournament deserves, I would say, the concentration -- a lot of concentration.
It is a tough course, and it is a great tournament. It is probably -- well, everybody is
calling it the fifth major. And I consider myself that you can call it the fifth major.
You have to take care of your business here, and then I am going to have a week off,
forget about this week, then start thinking about The Masters. But right now, you have to
concentrate on this tournament and play as well as you can. 
 
Q. Are you finding the celebrity of it all is easy to handle, or are you really getting
it, you know, you got so much publicity when you came over last year, the jump at the PGA,
the Ryder Cup, now the Titleist commercial, are people recognizing you; are they -- is it
good? Is it bad?
 
 SERGIO GARCIA: Well, you know, not really, no, it is good. They don't really recognize
me much. Last week I was at Universal Studios, and I spent probably like two and a half
hours or three hours there, and probably five persons recognized me. So it is pretty good.
And not to be thinking I can't go out there without being recognized and without having to
spend time with everybody and just can do what I want to do. So it is not that kind of
fact that I have, and I had a great time there at Universal. And I love to be recognized
when I am out there, but not much. Kind of like that. A couple of people recognize you and
you say, "Hi, how are you doing," or sign an autograph or whatever, but that is
enough. You are out on the golf course and trying to have a good time as anybody else. You
try to be the same person as the guy who is right behind you or right in front of you. You
try to be just as him, because you think, I mean, out of the golf course, we are just a
normal person. 
 
Q. What was your favorite ride? Did you go on the Tower of Terror?
 
 SERGIO GARCIA: Not really. I didn't -- I don't really like that. I love roller
coasters. I went to the Hawk (sic) and to the Double Dragons, or something like that it is
called. And I loved the Spiderman, I really enjoyed it. It is also one of my favorite
cartoons. I don't know how you say it, actors or whatever it is. So I really had a great
time there with the 3-Ds; it was a lot of fun. 
 
Q. How has hiring your new caddie helped you?
 
 SERGIO GARCIA: Well, he helped me. We are trying to go well together. It is tough
because it is a lot of changing, but we are doing our best. And it looks like it's taking
a little time, but we are trying to do the best we can. 
 
Q. What are your plans exactly for next week?
 
 SERGIO GARCIA: Well, practice a little, and I don't know. I am not going to tell you. I
don't want to have the media around. So just relax and practice. 
 
Q. Where are you going to practice?
 
 SERGIO GARCIA: I am not going to tell you where, just in case. 
 
Q. Last week, when you spoke at Bay Hill, you were looking forward to coming here and
playing this tournament, and you hadn't seen the golf course at that time but you heard a
lot of things about it. Is it as difficult or as challenging or fun or unusual --
 
 SERGIO GARCIA: It is pretty tough. It is tough. The rough is pretty thick and the
greens were -- when they get firm, they are going to be really tough to hit. There is a
lot of slopes in the greens, and most of them are pretty narrow. So you have to be very
accurate and you have to spin the ball pretty well to keep it on the greens. I think it is
a great course. It is very challenging, as I said before. And just seeing what they won
last year, the score that they won 3-under par, I have always said that those kind of
tournaments are the ones I like. The ones you really in between 10-under and, I don't
know, 2-, or 3-under. 
 
Q. Looking forward to playing a particular hole or not?
 
 SERGIO GARCIA: Of course, all of them. Of course, 17 it would be great to play. And it
would be better if I am able to hit it on the green and make four birdies or something
like that. 
 
Q. Anything in specific that you feel like is close to getting good in your game? You
said you were disappointed with the tough start this year. Obviously things -- what is
going on?
 
 SERGIO GARCIA: Well, they are getting better. I am hitting the ball better, and the
start always is a little tough. You are a little rusty, and some places spend more time to
get your game. But it was really my first start as a pro, so, you know, I think it is
getting a little better. But at the beginning, it was a little tough. But we have been
practicing with my dad working on my game. I feel much more comfortable hitting the ball
now, and hopefully I start really shooting good scores. 
 
Q. Did you hit the green the first time you played 17?
 
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yes. Yeah, well the green was soft, so it wasn't that difficult. 
 
Q. Jesper said playing with you in the Ryder Cup was about the most fun he has ever had
on the golf course. Do you feel the same way and can you compare your personalities?
 
 SERGIO GARCIA: Yes, it was a lot of fun. Jesper is a great guy and we made -- I think
we made a very good team. I don't know, his personality, he is a great guy, as I say, he
is a lot of fun and you know, well, his family is great too. As a person, I would say he
is maybe sometimes a little kind of strange, a little different. But everybody has his own
way of being and I respect the way he is and I like him. He is very good and we -- every
time we have played together we had a lot of fun. I think we get along pretty good.  
 
Q. Did he tell you and the rest of the team about the heart problem?
 
 SERGIO GARCIA: No, I just -- the first time I knew was when I read it on the newspaper.
If I would have known, I wouldn't be so (indicating)-- 
 
Q. Exactly.
 
 SERGIO GARCIA: I wouldn't be so (indicating).... 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT