WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY MEDIA CONFERENCE
February 15, 2018
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SERGIO GARCIA: I want to say but I feel like I have, but not.  It was pretty cool.  It was nice.  It was nice to deal with the kids, too.
Q. Is there a sense of comfort here now in Austin, the fact that you've spent so much time here?
SERGIO GARCIA: I don't know if it does or not.  We don't spend as much time as people think.  We still travel quite a bit.  But, yeah, we're just going to spend a little bit more time here.  And it is fun.  It is a great city.  So there are some really nice golf courses to play.
I don't know if it makes a difference, because at the end of the day you go out there and you're playing against the best in the world.  But it does feel like a little bit of a local, I guess.
Q. Do you consider yourself in any way an ambassador of the Austin area because of that, do you see yourself as that?
SERGIO GARCIA: I don't know, I don't know that I'd go that far.  Obviously I've always liked Texas, Texas has always been good to me, now more with my wife being from here.  And obviously following the Longhorns and everything.  But it is funny to spend a bit of time here when we can.  But I don't know if it would classify as being an ambassador.
Q. You get to take the Green Jacket home at all?
SERGIO GARCIA: The one I have, yes.  But when we get back to Augusta the week of the Masters then we give that one back.  And then we'll have one with me and that.  This one, when you win the first year you get to travel with it.
Q. How often have you worn it?
SERGIO GARCIA: I've worn it.  Obviously it's come with us all over the world.  A lot of people want to see it, in Australia, Hong Kong, obviously in Spain, Germany, all the places we've been to, Singapore just a few weeks ago and Dubai and stuff.  So it has been a lot of fun and people have the chance of seeing it and maybe taking a picture with me.  So it has been a good experience.
Q. It's hard to take off to play a round in it?
SERGIO GARCIA: It's not that easy to swing with the jacket on.  But, yeah, it's been a lot of fun and a great honor to be able to call myself a Masters champion and to travel around with the Green Jacket and to see how much it means to people when they see it.  It really means something for them to be able to see it and you touch it.
Q. How did your life change last year?
SERGIO GARCIA: I mean --
Q. Two big events?
SERGIO GARCIA: But, I mean, it has changed a little bit.  But not as much.  I'm still the same goofy guy.  And I still do the same things.  I still try to get better at what I do.  And what I love doing is just playing golf.
But other than that, it hasn't changed that much because, you know, I loved my life the way it was before.  We don't want it to change that much.  Obviously with the marriage and the baby coming and everything, things change a little bit, for sure.  But the essence of it is still the same.
Q. Just having that major champion behind your name, how much does that mean?
SERGIO GARCIA: Well, it's obviously something special.  It's something that -- it's always an honor to have that in your career.  But, like I said before, in Augusta, my life -- I wasn't going to be less happy without a major.  Obviously it's an extra, it's amazing.  But it's something that I get to enjoy and it's great to have on your rest pay.  But I want to keep getting better, and practicing hard, working hard and hopefully we'll keep getting better.
Q. (Inaudible.)
SERGIO GARCIA: Well, we'll see when it happens.  I'm sure that becoming a father and seeing the delivery and everything it's going to be more nerve wracking, because of everything.  It's not that simple to see your wife suffering.  It's a beautiful thing, but it's not all pretty.  It's going to be a lot of emotions.
Q. (Inaudible.)
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, we've seen on TV.  It was funny a couple of times we saw it and were talking about it.  It's funny to see the contrast of everyone kind of stepping up with their hands out (inaudible.)  It's one of those things that just happens.  And it was beautiful.  And something that obviously we will always remember.
Q. Was it hard to refocus in the playoff?
SERGIO GARCIA: No, not really.  I think that when I finished obviously I had a great chance to win with my birdie putt.  But I felt like I was playing great.  I felt like I had another opportunity coming up.  And Angela gave me a nice little boost of confidence walking up 18, kind of gave me a little, come on, you've got this.  And then I saw my mom, and she also gave me a nice hug and wished me luck and stuff.  So when I got to the 18th, to the first playoff hole, I was still confident.  I was still believing that I could do it.  I was telling myself, just go out there and birdie the hole and see what Justin can do, hopefully that's good enough.  And it was nice to be able to actually go out there and do it.
Q. What's going through your mind?
SERGIO GARCIA: It's impossible to describe.  There's so many -- I've talked about it many times before, so many things went through my mind.  So many different memories, childhood memories, days practicing with my dad, my family went through my mind, obviously my wife.  And good moments.  Tough moments.  So many things went through in such a short period of time, in the span of four or five seconds, it felt like my whole golfing life kind of went through it.  So it was a really unique experience.
Q. How often have you relived it to sort of celebrate?
SERGIO GARCIA: We got to watch it a few times.  Obviously it's fun to see it, fun to relive it.  But you still have to look forward.  And you can't live in the past.  So you have to keep moving, going forward, focus on what you're doing now and what you want to achieve in the near future.  So it's good to see it once in a while to experience it again and give you a boost of confidence.  But you've still got to kind of move forward.
Q. What are your expectations of coming back here?
SERGIO GARCIA: I'm excited about it.  I feel like the last couple of years I've played well.  Unfortunately I've finished second on the group.  It's one of those things it's just funny that you can play well and just miss it by very little up.  But I guess at the end of the day the only thing I can do is go out there and play as well as I can, hopefully have two good matches to start with, get to the singles matches, and then go on from there.
Q. How was playing soccer yesterday?
SERGIO GARCIA: That was fun.  Obviously Coach Kelly was very nice to let us to go out there.  It's a good team.  They look really nice.  We had a great time.  And it was also nice work out.
Q. Do you think about defending your Masters crown?
SERGIO GARCIA: Of course.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT