WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 24, 2018
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What do you have to be thinking to be able to come back from deficits like that?  
SERGIO GARCIA: No, it's quite simple, you just keep at it.  You just keep pushing and keep believing that you can do it.   
Unfortunately my chipping let me down today and the putts really didn't want to drop.  I only made one putt on the 10th.  Unless the other guy plays very, very poorly, it's difficult to win like that.   
Kyle played solid.  He didn't do anything spectacular, but he played solid and made a couple of birdies when he needed them.   
Unfortunately when I had the momentum going on 13 and 14, I kind of let it slip away again.  And then if I made the putt on 16, I thought I made it, his putt probably changes a little bit.  He might still make it, but you never know.   
 Q.  Looking back to the other three matches, and you've done it before in your career, do you think there's something different in you that gives you the resilience that you have these comeback wins in match play?  
SERGIO GARCIA: No, don't get me wrong, I don't enjoy that, I'd rather be 2- or 3-up on the front and play the back like I've been playing it, and win 5-4, but unfortunately I didn't manage to do it all week.  And you keep doing that, eventually things don't go exactly like you planned.  And you're going to struggle.  But it was a solid week.  I guess at the end of the day a little disappointing, but I get to see my little girl and all that.   
 Q.  Your thoughts on the course, your thoughts of kind of an adopted fan favorite, between throwing up the Hook 'Em Horns and the interaction?  
SERGIO GARCIA: It's good fun.  Obviously my wife Angela is from here.  Our daughter was born here.  Her family is a big Longhorns family.  So we have good connections, strong connections with Austin and with UT, and I've always enjoyed it.  I've enjoyed watching their football games and maybe a couple of basketball games and stuff.  And I got to practice soccer with the women's team a couple of times.  It's good fun.   
 Q.  What's the schedule look like?  On to Augusta?  
SERGIO GARCIA: On to Augusta (laughter).   
 Q.  How excited are you about Augusta?  
SERGIO GARCIA: It's exciting.  Obviously when we get there, it's going to be interesting to see how we feel and everything.  But it is definitely exciting.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT