DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 19, 2017
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. It's been a very special 2017 European Tour season, and it ends in fine style here today.  I know there will be a little bit of irritation after that dropped shot on 18 but how nice to finish off in this manner?
SERGIO GARCIA: Definitely, the last two days I played great, other than the last two holes.  Today unfortunately a couple bad swings there that obviously cost me a little bit.  But other than that, I thought it was a very solid week.
I thought the equipment I tried, it felt really good.  The Callaway stuff that I tried felt really nice.  It's a step forward probably for next year.  I have two more tournaments to keep getting more and more confident with it, and hopefully finish the year in good shape.
Q. Any hint at all of a regret in not playing Turkey or Nedbank, given how close you were to finishing the year as European No. 1, and the performance you've put in this week?
SERGIO GARCIA: Not at all.  Because at the end of the day, you do what you feel is best, not only for you, but for your family.  Angela and I, we needed to do some things related to the baby.  Obviously some checkups and stuff that I wanted to be a part of.  You know, I don't regret it at all.  It's fine.
You never know.  I might have gone to Turkey and South Africa and China and not played great, and then we'll be here.  I don't like to play too many tournaments in a row and it would be way too much tournaments in a row.  We did what we thought was best.
Q. You couldn't have got off to a better start.
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, it was the dream start.  Obviously birdieing the first four holes, and then hitting some really, really good shots.  Obviously the birdie on 9 was one to remember, 5-iron.
But you know, the problem is when you're that far back, you can't have any hiccups.  You're under pressure the whole time.  You know that you have to almost birdie every hole out there.  I feel like 10-under was not going to be enough.
We'll see at the end of the day but I thought that probably needed to get to probably 21 or something like that.  It's never easy to shoot 11-under par on any golf course.
So you know, we gave it a good shot and we would love to finish a little better than I did the last couple of holes.  But overall, it was a great week.
Q. Obviously coming off the back of the win at Valderrama, and your golf over the weekend looks as solid as ever and now you take that form straightaway into the next season.
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, I'm excited for next week at Hong Kong, and then in Australia for the PGA.  It should be great.  I heard great things about the courses and obviously love going back to Australia.  I haven't been there in a while, so I'm excited about it.  Hopefully we can have two more solid weeks.
Q. You've changed the equipment; how much of an upheaval and worry is that when you have to switch equipment, because it is a very fine-tuning process, isn't it.
SERGIO GARCIA: Yes, it is.  Obviously after being 15 years with the same company, there's always a little bit of a question mark, even though practising, it felt really good.  I think I could see as the week went on, I felt more and more comfortable.  I started getting better with it.
Obviously all the Callaway stuff that I've been trying felt really good.  So I'm excited to keep at it and you know, hopefully by the beginning of the year, we'll be ready to go and we can have another nice company to be a part of and move on.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT