VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 11, 2018
Sergio Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
SERGIO GARCIA: I left some shots out there on the front-9, too.  But it was a great round.  May be a little bit short.  Too much work to do today.  Good to be able the play that well and give myself some good chances.   
 Q.  Terrific shot at the 15th.  What were you thinking then?  
SERGIO GARCIA: No, I was trying to, you know, have a decent finish.  Obviously the last three holes are tough.  Hit a great shot there with the 7-iron.  Obviously would have been nice if it rolled a little bit more.  But, you know, made a nice birdie there and then gave myself an outside chance on 16.  Unfortunately left it short.  18 I hit a great shot, couple of yards farther for a chance to carry it.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
SERGIO GARCIA: Hopefully nothing.  I don't live there but we just kind of spend a little time there.  We will be there and if everything goes well I'll be able to play Match Play but hopefully that's the way it goes and I can make and play.  If not, I'll be with my wife and my little girl.   
 Q.  Sergio, just some comments on your round today, 65.  Good way to finish the tournament.  Maybe just come up a little too short.  
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah.  Unfortunately, I left myself too much to do today.  Played really, really nicely.  I played nicely all week.   
Unfortunately, I didn't really get anything out of my rounds the first three days and today could have been a really, really special round.  You know, I probably wasted at least three shots on the front-9 with a 3-putt and a couple short misses for birdies.   
But, other than that, you know, I felt that I played well under the conditions, under the pressure coming in on those tough holes and just a shame that my shot on the last didn't carry a couple more yards.  It would have been stiff.  Tricky pin.   
 Q.  Your schedule the next few weeks.  You've got some interesting off course things happening.  
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah.  Well, next week off, obviously, we're having our little girl on Sunday, and then hopefully Match Play and then the Masters.  So, you know, we'll see how it goes.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT