ITALIAN OPEN
October 13, 2017
Sergio Garcia
Tommy Fleetwood
Jon Rahm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Sergio, 9-under par for two rounds.  What are you most pleased about?  
SERGIO GARCIA: I think it was pretty solid overall.  Hit some good putts but I didn't really make many.  I left a few short in line and unfortunately a couple iffy putts here and there.   
 Q.  Jon, how about you?  
JON RAHM: They were different rounds.  Yesterday my ball-striking was really good, and much like Sergio, and I think it's just hard to make putts on tricky greens.  I didn't make as many as I wished and today my ball-striking wasn't as good but my short game saved me.   
I made a lot of putts for par that kept me going.  I just wish I can hit a couple better shots with my short irons.  My wedges have not been nearly close, to average, it's been pretty bad.  I've been missing greens from a hundred yards and in.  Hopefully I can get that figured out and just wish for a couple putts.   
 Q.  Your first Italian Open, first Rolex Series event, how impressed are you?  
SERGIO GARCIA: Very impressed.  I think obviously the European Tour should be very happy, but the Italian people more than anything should be very happy.  The course is in nice condition and the greens are rolling very nice, and so many people following.  It's great to see such big support from all the Italians.  We definitely enjoyed it.   
 Q.  Out there with Tommy Fleetwood, how was the atmosphere between you?  
JON RAHM: I'm chasing him, as well.  We're all great friends.  It's all in good fun.  We are trying to play the best we can.  I wasn't thinking on Tommy being No. 1 on the Money List or Race to Dubai really.  It's not what we have in mind.  We're trying to hit the best shot we can at the moment.  We had two great days.  It's too bad we had to split up and play with different people.  It's been really fun.   
 Q.  You just announced you're about to become a father early next year.  How excited are you?  
SERGIO GARCIA: Yeah, it's very exciting.  It's something that my wife Angela and I, we are really looking forward to it.  She's doing amazing.  She's taking care of her little belly unbelievably.  So very proud of her, and can't wait for March to come.   
 Q.  Not at your brilliant best yesterday but today, terrific.  What was the difference?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: I putted well on the back nine, which is our front nine.  Obviously holed a few.  Yesterday I was poor, really.  Didn't play very well.  Didn't give myself very many chances at all and today was just a bit better.  I think I made three pars on the par 5 which is is giving shots back here.  Overall, wanted to make sure I was here at the weekend to have a chance to shoot one of the low scores that we know is out there.   
 Q.  How much incentive was it knowing these two are chasing you in The Race to Dubai?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: It's been great, actually, to get us all here.  It must be great for the viewers to watch one, two, three in The Race to Dubai.   
Today was important to make sure I was around at the weekend with a chance to move up, and just with tournaments that are coming up, they are all massive events, so anything can happen, really.  It's not -- you've just got to keep going and keep your head down.  Massive tournaments, which is great.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT