ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS SCOTTISH OPEN
October 3, 2020
Wade Ormsby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. How tough was that today?
WADE ORMSBY:   It just got tougher and tougher as we went around.  I put the umbrella down after about four holes and thought I would just deal with it, but by about the 11th hole, it was brutal.  And out by the coast there, it was getting a spot of wind, ran out of towels after about 14 holes so a grind coming in.
Q. Mentally, physically, you're tired, but ultimately you must be pretty happy with what you've done today?
WADE ORMSBY:   Exactly, a few under par today, but up the last and where I hit that tee shot, definitely leaves me with a good taste in my mouth going into tomorrow.
Q. Don't want to give it away, because 17, reasonable putt, as well, and 18, having dropped there, you don't want to give it away?
WADE ORMSBY:   Exactly right.  Probably made a pretty soft par on 16, as well, so I was kind of -- didn't want to give any back.  Had a putt from a bit of water on 17 and didn't quite get the ball rolling and had a great second putt and again on 18.  Definitely makes you feel good finishing like that in conditions like this.
Q. And your caddie, working really hard to keep you dry, keep you going, keep you going mentally?
WADE ORMSBY:   Caddies earnt their money today.  Can't put enough towels in the bag.  I think five gloves and probably three or fours towels.  That's what it's like in those conditions.  Dry everything off and try it tomorrow.
Q. Toughest day you've had on the course?
WADE ORMSBY:   I think, so especially when you're in the hunt for a tournament.  If not, you find a way to get in and you don't care about it.  But if you are in the hunt for a tournament, you want to make sure you have the best opportunity.
Q. This is where you want to be, isn't it, going into the final round?
WADE ORMSBY:   Yeah, exactly.  Give yourself a chance with one round to go, big event, that's what we all play for.  Give it a good crack tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT