BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 22, 2017
Wade Ormsby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Your best score this year by two shots.  What was the difference?  
WADE ORMSBY: Kept on hitting it where I wanted to and holed some putts.  I had a pretty hot putter early and that got me going and I kept on hitting down the barrel.  So to hang in there and finish it off, which was nice.   
 Q.  Excellent front nine.  I think six birdies, what was the main difference out there?  
WADE ORMSBY: Well, I hit a scrappy iron shot into 10, my first hole today and got up-and-down, holed about a 12-footer and then I hit two really good strikes on 11, and I thought, hang on, my swing is back where I want it.  From there I kept on pressing on.  I think I had nine or ten putts on the front nine, which you've got to do to shoot those numbers.  I had a good chance at every par 5, just on the green or thereabouts.  Made a lot of birdies, which was nice.  All in all a good day.   
 Q.  Playing aggressive.  Is that your tactic this week?  
WADE ORMSBY: This place has always dished out pretty low scores, so every time you come here, you know are you familiar got to get on with it.  I said at the start of the week to my caddie, Richard, I said I think 2-under nine for the whole week, that's going to be my goal, I guess, because I've always struggled around here going low enough.  I had to reassess after about five or six holes because it going.  It's just nice to start the tournament well and get off to the right foot.  Been working pretty hard on the golf swing.   
 Q.  Tomorrow morning the greens won't be as bumpy, so there's even more chances to go low.  
WADE ORMSBY: Yeah, exactly.  Even though they are bumpy, I still managed to hole a few.  So yeah, morning conditions are always good.  The air is really good here at the moment.  Ball is going a long way.  So we'll just keep pressing and keep trying to do what I'm doing and keep moving forward I guess.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT