HONG KONG OPEN
October 17, 2014
Wade Ormsby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Certainly looked like you got it going on the second round.   
WADE ORMSBY:   Yeah, a few more birdies.   I'm not making too many mistakes.   I made two bogeys in the end there, one on the last.   But yeah, my game is well suited for this place.   I've just got to keep plodding along and keep trying to take the birdies where I can get them.  
   
 Q.   It does seem year after year, I have a little conversation with you here at Fanling.   It is suited to you?  
WADE ORMSBY:   Yeah, I do hit it quite straight.   Short game is normally quite tidy.   So that's the type of place it is.   Yeah, keep adding them up and hopefully I'll be in the front.  
   
 Q.   Good with the strategy, know where to hit it?   
WADE ORMSBY:   Yeah, you kind of see all the shots around here.   The wind is tricky.   It's hard to work out where it's coming from even though you know where it should be coming from.   It's just a matter of trying to trust what you've got and go ahead and hit it.  
   
 Q.   Sounds stupid to talk about the wind.   There's barely any, it's a light breeze?  
WADE ORMSBY:   It's not gusting but feels like it's doing enough to throw you out a little bit.  
   
 Q.   Put this into context.   How have you been playing?   
WADE ORMSBY:   Made a lot of cuts lately but just haven't got in the hunt.   Game's not too bad.   I know I probably haven't been hitting it as good as what I want to or as much control as what I want to.   Went back to Adelaide last week home, did a day's work with my coach, found out why it's not behaving, tuned it up a little bit and come up here and it's better.   It's good.  
   
 Q.   Probably something simple.   
WADE ORMSBY:   Same stuff with us.   It's always something.   It's something in the backswing, get a little bit inside, get a little bit more outside, gives me more coming out‑‑ it's what a lot of us struggle with, having the club behind us coming down.   Just get it out in front of me and try to keep playing well.   Just keep chipping away.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT