HONG KONG OPEN
December 6, 2013
Wade Ormsby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on being 5‑under at the halfway stage?   
WADE ORMSBY:   Well, it's good.   There's quite a few guys around the top there, so I'm pretty happy.   Played well towards the , so it's good.  
   
 Q.   A nice first round as well as the second, wasn't it?   
WADE ORMSBY:   Yeah, exactly.   I made a bit of a shaky start today, and yeah, then I got the putter going through 8 and 9, I think it is, and I played pretty solid, so it's good.  
   
 Q.   Purely down to you or are there two halves to this course, one a little easier than the other?   
WADE ORMSBY:   The first three or four, you kind of make a good start and then you have to knuckle down through to the 12th tee and you can have a crack at it.   That's kind of the way it works and that's kind of the way the course flows.   That's the way it is, pretty good.  
   
 Q.   Are you in the camp that genuinely enjoys playing a track like this, a bit different to most?   
WADE ORMSBY:   I'm not a powerful type player.   I try and play more precise, and that's what this course calls for.   I think you've got to hit a lot of fairways and you've got to get the ball in position, and yeah, kind of suits me a little bit more than some of the big, long, wet golf courses, so it's a nice change.  
   
 Q.   Does that mean you fancy your chances a bit when you tee it up for the first day at Fanling?   
WADE ORMSBY:   Yeah, it's nice to play these types of courses.   I fancy myself a bit more around these types of places, if you like.   Don't have any bad courses on Tour, but some of these, you try to take the opportunity with both hands and try to get yourself in the hunt.   So looking forward to the week.  
   
 Q.   Am I right to presume there's a bit of confidence after coming through and securing the card?  
WADE ORMSBY:   Yeah, definitely.   The last two or three months, I've played pretty good.   The putter is not as good as what I would like it to be.   I missed the last two cuts, but I've been playing good.  
I made a lot of birdies last week and a lot of mistakes, so just have to clean the mistakes up, because I'm hitting enough good shots.   Put in a couple of hard day's work Tuesday, Wednesday on the range and game feels good, ball‑striking feels good, so got a lot of control there.   Get the putter rolling and hopefully there on the week.   Looking forward to it.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT