NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v LAKERS
May 21, 2010
Ron Artest
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. The fun part of it will sink in July or August or whenever?
 RON ARTEST: I don't know. Oh, man. That's so far ahead. That's so far ahead.

 Q. I mean, like the journey is supposed to be the -- Phil talks about that. The journey is the fun part. The getting there and all that kind of stuff. 
 RON ARTEST: I think in July. In July. I'm trying to -- I don't know. 

 Q. I don't want to get you too far. 
 RON ARTEST: I don't know.

 Q. Are you having fun?
 RON ARTEST: Not really? I'm more -- I'm more focused in having fun.

 Q. Still a business trip for you right now?
 RON ARTEST: Yeah. It hasn't been much fun. It's just been more like, just dull. You know, just mute and dull. And just, like, you know? There's got to be a word.

 Q. You think about the past, focal point on offense. Do you find it strange at times to be on the wing and have --
 RON ARTEST: It's not strange. But I think the triangle gives you an opportunity to figure it out for yourself. Try to give you an opportunity to figure it out yourself. 
 The triangle is team play. And you do get a chance, you do get a chance in the triangle to help. That would be to show what you got, I guess. 
 The triangle allows you to do that. So pass drive, you have to learn that first, learn that, then you can move. So many different options you have. So many different options your teammate has. 
 And it depends on what he does, it's something different that you can do. Or might even leave you wide open. And then so that's been the most challenging, and it's coming along. It's like second nature right now as far as every game goes on, as every practice, every practice.

 Q. So as we get deeper into the playoffs, it's really only a matter of time before you started playing better and better, as you are now? 
 RON ARTEST: I guess over this playoff season, I guess so. But, like I said, I really don't care how I play. I really want to play hard. So offensively, whatever, I don't really care. Executing, executing the triangle, definitely playing hard. Definitely playing hard and getting stops and doing what I need to do defensively. But after that, it's okay. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT