NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v LAKERS
May 18, 2010
Ron Artest
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Were you surprised at how efficient you were last night as a team? 
 RON ARTEST: As a team, yeah, we was -- we was really focused on the game. We didn't focus on how well we were playing, we just played hard.
 You look after the game and you realize you had a pretty good game. You just move on to the next one.

 Q. Almost like you beat them at their own game?
 RON ARTEST: Yeah, if you look at it like that. That's how it seems. We double executed. And we came in with the right mindset and played together and counted down the break a little bit. Kobe was spectacular yesterday. So it worked out.

 Q. Will it be difficult to match that performance in Game 2?
 RON ARTEST: I don't know what type performance we really had. We just gave effort. We went out there and that's it.

 Q. Ron, when you look back the 2-2 series with Oklahoma. Since then you've won seven straight since that. What changed since then?
 RON ARTEST: Oklahoma is a great team. They had like seven shot blocks on that team. So it was tough. We tried, we just -- we just kept moving on to the next game.

 Q. Now, with seven straight games, you guys are doing something that's creating confidence, creating momentum. What's going on?
 RON ARTEST: I didn't play the same way, just that Oklahoma team is pretty good. So it's a whole new game. We didn't know what to expect, but the Oklahoma team was pretty good. And they'll be good in the future also. 
 So we didn't know what to expect. We knew we were going to play hard.

 Q. (Off microphone)
 RON ARTEST: First, he was going to try to come out and win anyway, didn't matter who we played the first round. Whether it was a talented team or whatever type team we got in the first round, come out and play hard regardless.

 Q. How much have you taken off the tape on your left hand to improve your shooting and the handling of the ball?
 RON ARTEST: I haven't thought about it. I just go out there and play. If I'm out there, I'm out there. I don't really think about what's on my hand and what's not.

 Q. When did you make the decision to take it off; the thumb was feeling better?
 RON ARTEST: Was supposed to take it off about two months ago. Kept it on. Finally we just took it off. They told me to take it off. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT