NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v LAKERS
May 28, 2010
Ron Artest
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Have you totally forgotten about it or have you relived last night?
 RON ARTEST: No. Good or bad, move on. 

 Q. You have to feel good about yourself because in a matter of a couple moments you went from the outhouse to the penthouse. 
 RON ARTEST: Well, you know, I been there my whole career. It's not like it's anything new. I don't mind people jumping on the bandwagon, jumping off. 

 Q. You've done a good job on keeping your emotions in check. 
 RON ARTEST: When I first made the shot, if you see the tape, I really wasn't that happy. Then I see my teammates coming to me. I seen Kobe, I got really excited. I had to enjoy it with my teammates. 
 If it was up to me, I just would have went in the locker room and moved on. 

 Q. You sprinted into the locker room. 
 RON ARTEST: Well, you know, as a team, we all enjoy that. I just want to go in the locker room and move on to Game 6. But as a team, we just enjoyed it. You know, all 13 players, we enjoyed it. 

 Q. You've seen Kobe hit a whole bunch of game winners. 
 RON ARTEST: I don't even care sometimes. Just ready to move on. I look at it as, Let's move on. Look back at it later after the season. But I guess he's done that so much, you know. They have rings and stuff. I don't have anything. 

 Q. Why is it you always want to move on so quickly? Have you always been that way? 
 RON ARTEST: No, I haven't always been that way. When I was younger, I would stay in the moment, stay in the past. 
 But I wish I could enjoy it more. 

 Q. You're in the moment, the moment is happy, how come you're not happy? 
 RON ARTEST: I'm ready to move on, you know. Ready to go to the next one. I don't know why. That's the whole point, definitely you want to win, you want to make sure you're doing what's necessary to win, trying your best to win. 
 But for me, I always want to try to get better going to the next game. It makes it even that much better. 

 Q. But you could feel and see how happy your teammates were for you. 
 RON ARTEST: Oh, yeah, I seen that, you know. I looked at that moment. I mean, if it wasn't for Kobe, I wouldn't have had the ball. It was a team thing really, you know. Kobe really made that happen (laughter). Everybody is looking at Kobe. One time I don't look at him, I get the rebound. 

 Q. Do you wish you could allow yourself to enjoy the moment more? Why don't you? 
 RON ARTEST: Man, I don't even know. I know I focus on winning. I don't know. Even last night, you know, it just didn't feel like I won a Game 5. It didn't feel like that. It felt like we need to win Game 6. 

 Q. You talked about moving on. 
 RON ARTEST: I want to make sure I get ready, keep my body fresh. Time to do it after the game. I had a whole day to rest today. 

 Q. You came here last summer. This is what you were looking forward to, being able to be part of big playoff wins. Did it take a while to have a moment where you could prove, This is why I'm here?
 RON ARTEST: I don't think I proved anything. I don't think I proved anything. I hustled. I got some steals at the end. I don't think that proved anything. 
 I'm not really trying to prove anything, you know. My main thing is to make sure I'm staying in the game, staying focused, give giving a hundred percent. 
 Sometimes, you know, a hundred percent is not good enough, it's just not good enough. But if I give a hundred percent, I'm totally happy. Being hated, whatever, I don't care. As long as I give a hundred percent, even if I went down, I went down as a soldier. That's all I know. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT