CHINA OPEN
October 6, 2010
Mao-Xin Gong
Zhe Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 GONG-LI/Kubot-Marach
  4-6, 6-1, 11-9 
  
 THE INTERPRETER: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. (Through translation.) The first set you lost, and the second set you turned back very easily 6-1. In the deciding set, how did you manage to catch up and reach the opponent and maintain your composure and finally win the deciding set?   
 MAO-XIN GONG: (Through translation.) In the first set actually mentally we hadn't been well-prepared for such a big match. After the first match we had made some adjustments, and especially in the details and things got a lot better, especially in the deciding point.   
 And we dared to make our efforts and have been able to take the opportunity, which is the most important part to turn around the match.  
 ZHE LI: (Through translation.) The attitude taken to our match is point by point. Because we have been ranked much lower than our opponents, our opponents are quite tough in the match, and they have a lot of change in their strategies, in the placement of their shots.   
 The first set we were not being able to deal quite well with such changes, such strategy from our opponents, but after one match adjustment we will be able to do that quite well. So in second set, we turned around the table and won it easily, and in deciding set we have been able to take the opportunity in the most critical moment. Therefore, we won the match.   
  
  Q. (Through translation.) First question to Mr. Gong, in today's match, especially the deciding match tiebreaker, how did you manage mentally and tactically to remain calm and win the match tiebreaker?   
 MAO-XIN GONG: (Through translation.) At the beginning of the match tiebreaker, they led 3 points by 1 and then 4-2, and at this point my partner Li made unforced error, and our opponent has caught up, and our opponent at 4-3.   
 After two rounds in this year's competition and I think both Li and me helping able to undertaken great pressure under the big critical moment, and even at this time we still believe we are be able to turn around the match.   
 ZHE LI: (Through translation.) In this match they have been able to taken a point-by-point attitude, and we have been able to taken the opportunity, take advantage of the errors made by our opponent even though when they were leading and we did not give up our hope.   
 Therefore, finally we are able to turn around the table and won the match. I think these are very invaluable experience from the matches, and I think in the future we should be able to take a very good use of such valuable experience.   
  
  Q. (Through translation.) Regarding Mr. Gong serve, Mr. Gong's serve is not very satisfactory, according to the tennis experts.   
 MAO-XIN GONG: (Through translation.) My serve actually is not very satisfactory even in my own opinion, because in the first three games of the match, the first serve are all double faults, because I have a little problem with my shoulder, so I need to do a lot of work to improve my serve.  
  
  Q. Mr. Gong, I just want to take you back to yesterday when you played Novak, and I had a chat with Novak afterwards and we were discussing men's tennis here. We were talking about why is it that the Chinese women have managed to break into the top 10 and are so good, why is it that the Chinese men still seem to have a problem finding its feet, as it were? He said it doesn't matter how much money you invest in the Chinese development tennis system, the state-of-the-art facilities and so forth. He says it's up to the will and the desire of the individual player to make a difference, and that will close the actual gap. Can I ask you both, is that something that you would agree with?   
 ZHE LI: (Through translation.) You understand nowadays men's professional tennis, the competition is much more intense and fiercer, both physically and tactically, than the competition coming from women's professional tennis. Today you understand we have been able to beaten the very strong and tough opponents who ranked No. 17 in the ATP doubles, so you understand in a few years' time, we Chinese men's tennis will certainly be making more progress which will become much more obvious than it is now.   
 MAO-XIN GONG: (Through translation.) I absolutely agree with Mr. Li's opinion, and I think nowadays men's tennis are more intensely competitive, and because the men's players in China are mostly able to participate in the small tournaments, so when they have met with the big opponents and top-ranked players and even here there are a lot of opportunities, and they still do not believe they will be able to beat such top-ranked players.   
 So that is one of the reasons why the Chinese men's tennis are still lagging far behind from that of their women counterpart.   
  
  Q. (Through translation.) In Chinese women's tennis we have been able to make great breakthrough in the doubles, so would it be possible for the Chinese men's tennis doing the same, learning from the Chinese women's lesson?  
 ZHE LI: (Through translation.) I believe the Chinese men's doubles team will be able to do the same like in the Chinese women's doubles team have already done, leading the Chinese tennis development and promote the development of the Chinese tennis.   
 There are many foreign players, especially in top-ranked players, that are not often paired for a long time. But for Chinese men's doubles players, we have been paired for a long time. We can be trained and make preparations for the tournaments with sufficient time.   
 During the match, we can be mutually encouraging each other, help each other, giving advice and believe each other. So I believe the Chinese men's doubles team will be playing similar role in the future development of the Chinese tennis.  
  
  Q. (Through translation.) My question goes to Mr. Gong, and yesterday you played a singles match against Novak Djokovic, and Djokovic said the Chinese players actually had some problem in dealing with the crucial points. So do you think that yesterday's match has helped you to take the opportunity at a critical moment for today's match?  
 MAO-XIN GONG: (Through translation.) I think so, and we have prepared well for today's match, and before the match started we have imagined that there could be two different kind of situations, first one from the very start which would be lagging far behind, and the second we could be able to have the opportunity to lead in the match.   
 If such occurrence arises, we should be able to take the opportunity very bravely and daringly, and today we are helping do that quite well. At those critical moments, we give ourselves mental hints, and that helped a great deal. We did take the crucial points which led us to the victory for today.   
  
  Q. (Through translation.) My question goes to Mr. Gong. In China, you have been compared to Roger Federer because the style of your play. Have you decidedly tried to imitate Federer's play style?   
 MAO-XIN GONG: (Through translation.) No, definitely not. Because I have watched a lot of these matches live and on radio, so maybe I have been very much influenced by his style of play, both for his motion of the play on court and tactical-wise.   
 As to going to Shanghai and taking a photo with Roger Federer, I have already taken a photo with Roger during the Olympics, so now I should concentrate on my preparation for the tennis matches.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT