U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 19, 1997
Roger Tambellini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ROGER TAMBELLINI:   Yeah.  Started off with a par on 1, and hit it right off the tee, made a pretty good par.  I hit kind of a cut shot around the trees.  Parred 2 and 3.  Hit it about a foot on 4, made it for birdie.

ROGER TAMBELLINI:   Hit a 9-iron.  Made a whole bunch of basic pars, I guess, just hitting a bunch of greens hitting a lot of fairways up until 11, I made, I think it was about 25, 30 feet.

ROGER TAMBELLINI:   I hit driver, 3-wood right of the green, and hit a bad chip long -- or not a bad chip, but just a conservative chip more than anything, a little bit long, and made it coming back.  And then hit -- made another par on 12 and 13, and then hit it about 10-feet below the hole on 14  and made it for birdie.  Parred 15.  Hit it in the left rough on 16, punched it out and didn't get it up-and-down.  Made a good birdie on 17, 2-iron, sand wedge to about 15 feet and made it.  And then 18, I hit a good drive and made it interesting by hitting it over in the long rough on the right and made about a 12-footer for par, so pretty boring round, actually.


Q.  Do you feel pretty confident coming in this week?  You've played fairly well this summer, right?

ROGER TAMBELLINI:   Yeah, I had a good summer.  Hit it bad the first practice round, and then hit a little bit better the second practice round. Yeah, but even hitting it bad in the first practice round, I had a lot of confidence and felt really good about my game.  My putting, everything has been kind of clicking and feeling good about everything.


Q.  What are your plans after this tournament? Do you plan on turning pro or --

ROGER TAMBELLINI:   I have another year of school.


Q.  Oh, okay.

ROGER TAMBELLINI:   So I'm going to go back  to school in the fall and then the spring, and then I think I'm going to turn pro next May.  I'm not totally sure on that, but I think I'll probably turn pro next May and then --


Q.  After The Masters?

ROGER TAMBELLINI:   Right, exactly, exactly.


Q.  This is a year of eligibility?

ROGER TAMBELLINI:   No eligibility left.


Q.  Just classes?

ROGER TAMBELLINI:   Spent a year at UOP playing.  Only played in two tournaments, and then three years at USC.  This will be my fifth year in college.


Q.  Did it help to have No. 4 over with yesterday?

ROGER TAMBELLINI:   Yeah, it really did.  I kind of felt like I had a round in the bag, and I felt really confident about playing well on the 2 course.  I mean, the 2 course, I don't know why all the scores are so bunched up.  I felt like the 2 course is a lot easier and my score went up, so that doesn't really help much at all.  But I played really well yesterday. Hit it decent today.  Didn't do anything special, but it was just kind of -- just made a lot of pars.


Q.  What do you think the key is to playing No. 4  well?

ROGER TAMBELLINI:   Hit it long, straight and make putts.  You really have to hit a lot of fairways. I hit so many fairways yesterday that I didn't even know what the rough was like off the tee, but I think the fairways on the 4 course are pretty wide as I remember them.  They're so -- so I think hitting a lot of fairways, obviously.  But you can kind of spray it a little bit off the tee I guess, but then hitting a lot of greens because the rough is kind of tough to get up-and-down out of.  I only missed a couple fairways yesterday. Got lucky and had easy chips, with the exception of 1, really.  Hitting a lot of fairways.  And then in match play, you know, making all your 4- and 5-footers really.  I think that gets to your opponent more than anything.


Q.  How do you rate yourself as a match-play player?

ROGER TAMBELLINI:   Pretty good right now. I've always liked match play a whole lot.  Haven't had a whole lot of success coming into the summer, but then played really well in the Public Links.  Got to the quarter finals which is the best match-play tournament I've ever played in really or been successful in  really, I should say.  But pretty good.  I think the more you like it, the more you're going to be successful at something.  So I'm really looking forward to playing some matches and winning some matches.


Q.  Roger, is there anyone you wouldn't want to play that's in this field?

ROGER TAMBELLINI:   I want to play the best player in the world, let alone this field.  I want to play everybody.  I want to beat everybody.  I want to do my best to beat everybody, you know.  No, I want to play the best.


Q.  Who beat you at the APL?

ROGER TAMBELLINI:   Ryuji Imada.  APL, is that Public Links I assume?


Q.  Right.

ROGER TAMBELLINI:   Ryuji Imada, and I even played well in that match to lose, you know.  I was -- I think I might have been under par, and he was like 6-under par through 13 holes.  He killed me.  But I played well -- I think I was under par every round that week.

ROGER TAMBELLINI:   I think pretty good.  I guess the guys that shot low on the 2 course have to shoot 68 or something I heard, and then the guys that played well on the 4 course have to shoot 66 on the 2 course to get it, so I would think the chances are pretty good.  But I mean, you know, who knows. Somebody could shoot 62, I don't know.


Q.  Who's your caddie this week?

ROGER TAMBELLINI:   Rudy Duran right there.


Q.  He helped you with junior golf?

ROGER TAMBELLINI:   Yeah, he's been around pretty much all my life in and out, and just started talking with him a lot this summer and playing a lot with him, and he wanted to come back and caddie for me, which is really nice of him.  He's doing a great job. I really like having him.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT