TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 3, 2009
Mike Leach
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. Coach, in the second quarter after fumble on the kickoff return you called a time-out and called a team meeting apparently. Can you give some indication of what the message to the team was?
 COACH LEACH: Well we just need to play together. , you know, I thought when we scored that first touchdown as quickly as we did, I thought, you know, we went kind of complacent. We not play a very good first half then, of course, had a lot of adversity. I was proud of our players. The way they overcame the adversity because we had a lot of guys off the bench respond well.

 Q. Can you assess Steven Sheffield's performance coming off the bench and having to play in that situation?
 COACH LEACH: I thought he played good. Thought he came out and played good. I thought that drive before half kind of sparked not just the but all aspects of our team.

 Q. You think roles are starting to be identified more with the running backs? Seems like Baron and Harrison kind of started to settle in a bit?
 COACH LEACH: I think they both played good. You know, we'll have to look at the film. I think they both played good though and I think contributed. You know, Harrison the more excited he is, the more he gets involved I think plays well. Then Baron, if he doesn't try to do too much plays well.

 Q. Mike, do you expect Taylor to be back next week and based on what you saw from Sticks today how competitive is he for that position and how prepare is he to do what he did today?
 COACH LEACH: Well I expect everybody to be back since there hasn't been an injury around here in five years or whatever it started. I don't know why this week would be any different. And so, you know, we'll go out and practice and see what happens.

 Q. If you don't have quite as depth as you would normally next week is that a concern for you going into conference play?
 COACH LEACH: Not really. You just play the other guys. I mean, either you play or you can't. Either you are available or you're not. You just play, you know. 
 I mean, it's not much of an equation, you know.

 Q. Coach, you talked a lot about sharpening. Did you see any of that today and how did you think they rallied with everything that went on over the weekend and started off the week. 
 COACH LEACH: I thought at times we did, but, you know, but there was some disruption as far as people having to come off the bench. And so I think that in a lot of cases settled in admirably quickly, you know, at times. 
 But, you know, any time it's as disruptive as that game was, you know, it's always kind of challenging. But I was proud of our guys the way they settled in and adjusted and went out there and made plays. 
 I wish we would have been a little more consistent but that's part of what we were up against as far as that goes. And then, you know, I think the biggest things we need to play the next play better. If somebody bad happens play the next one. If something good happens, play the next one.

 Q. Mike, what happened after the game with you and Coach Locksley?
 COACH LEACH: I shook hands. What do you mean?

 Q. Was there any heated exchange?
 COACH LEACH: No. Never is. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thanks, coach. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT