SAN DIEGO COUNTY CREDIT UNION HOLIDAY BOWL: MICHIGAN STATE VS WASHINGTON STATE
December 13, 2017
Mike Leach
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








RICK SCHLOSS: Coach Leach, if you could make some comments, then we will ask some questions.
MIKE LEACH: On behalf of Washington State, we're thrilled to be in the Holiday Bowl, maybe the greatest bowl I've ever been to.
Anyway, with that said, I'm not an opening statement guy, so with that said, do we have any questions?
Q. (No microphone.)
MIKE LEACH: I think they just rotate that.  I don't know, though.  I'm hardly the expert on that.  I'm a go-where-they-tell-me kind of guy.
Q. Your thoughts on San Diego?
MIKE LEACH: I like San Diego a lot.  I've been to San Diego quite a bit.  My wife is from San Diego, went to Patrick Henry High School.  Yeah, so I've been to San Diego quite a bit.
When we got married, I thought I was guaranteed a lot of trips to San Diego, then her parents moved to Utah.  I got gypped out of that a little bit.  But anyway, it's good to be back.
Q. (No microphone.)
MIKE LEACH: Yeah, it's kind of a next-man-up deal.  It's a lot like practice or spring or camp:  you just play the next guy.
We're confident in them.
Q. You mentioned how much you like the Holiday Bowl here, greatest bowl ever.  Can you expand on that.  Why do you really like it?
MIKE LEACH: I think the setting's fantastic.  I think where the hotels are situated with regard to things to do within walking distance is excellent.  I think that's one of the biggest keys to a bowl as far as the teams go.  First of all, you got good hotels where everybody can have a lot of fun.  You have plenty of space.  Space is huge with regards to football teams.  As a matter of fact, when we stay on the road, I don't worry about the quality of the hotel as much as the space.  So you got plenty of space.  It's a high-quality hotel.
The other thing that I think is important is walking distance.  You don't have to mess with the logistics of cars or buses or all that.  On their downtime, everything is right across the street or down the boardwalk.
Q. (No microphone.)
MIKE LEACH: Once we get here?  We'll let them go out, have kind of a later curfew early in the week, then tighten is up as we get through the week.
We enforce it, but from my experience in the past, generally, with a few rare exceptions, pretty good luck as far as guys getting themselves in.
Q. The Holiday Bowl has a reputation for shootouts, fantastic finishes.  How do you see this matchup finishing out?
MIKE LEACH: I think it will be a shootout and a fantastic finish (laughter).
You got kind of contrasts styles.  They're big and strong and physical.  We're trying to maneuver some stuff around.  I think it's a good matchup.  I think it will be fun to watch.
Q. (No microphone.)
MIKE LEACH: Hopefully higher scoring.  I think, yeah, the best thing about our team this year is we're a pretty complete team.  We had contributions pretty consistently throughout the season on all three sides of the ball:  special teams, offense and defense.
Of the teams that I've coached, as far as all three sides of the ball contributing, not having a real weak spot, I felt like this was one of my more balanced teams.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT