WIMBLEDON
July 5, 2016
Dominka Cibulkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 E. VESNINA/D. Cibulkova
  6‑2, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
   
 Q. Were you tired from the match of yesterday or was Vesnina too good today?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: I have to say Vesnina played really, really well. It was just all together. She was playing really well. Of course, I felt yesterday's match, not only physically, but also emotionally. I felt today a little bit flat.   
Even when I was catching her a little bit, she always did some good serve. She didn't give me any chance to come back into the match.   
It was really tough. I would say all things came together. It was really hard on the court for me today, yeah.   
   
 Q. Now the wedding can go ahead.   
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, it can.   
   
 Q. Did your fiancé have a little word with you and say, Look?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: No. Of course, it was just a great two weeks for me. If you tell me before the tournament I win Eastbourne and I will go in the quarterfinals of the Wimbledon, you know, I wouldn't take you seriously.   
I see myself right now as a very good grass court player. Give me a lot of confidence. I just need some rest and break because it was really, really tough emotionally for these two weeks.   
   
 Q. Did she do anything that surprised you?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: No, not really. She didn't surprise me. We played against each other a few times. She is playing, I would say, the best on the grass court. Her serve is working really well.   
This is what made the biggest difference today, I would say. I was a bit slower today on the returns, and that's why I played a lot of frames. I just wasn't there, solid on the return.   
Yeah, you know, it was, as I said, all together.   
   
 Q. What was the recovery process like since after the match against Aga?   
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: I tried. I tried my best. I did an ice bath twice. My physio, he worked on me for a while. Then I had a longer press here, and we came to the house around 6:00, 7:00. I tried to relax, just to get as much energy as I could.   
I slept a little longer this morning to get extra energy. You know, I just tried what I could.   
   
 Q. Was your fiancé watching today?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Of course. He's here all the time.  
   
 Q. Any other tennis players coming to your wedding?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Only Barbora Strycova. I'm not sure if she's still in the doubles. She's the only one that is coming.  
   
 Q. How long do you think it will take to get the disappointment out of your system and start getting excited about the wedding?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: You know, I just lost the quarterfinals, I don't want to say pretty easy, but 6‑2, 6‑2. It's just so much emotions going around. I think I will need a few hours to, you know, just think about everything.   
I think tomorrow I will realize that I had a great grass court season. I will just look forward to the wedding, because everything is ready. Yeah, it's in a few days.   
   
 Q. You said yesterday it would be a dream to have to cancel your wedding. Do you think on Saturday there will be kind of mixed feelings as you're walking down the aisle?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: No, no, no, I don't think so. I don't think so. If I would be still here, I would just think about tennis. What I do, I do hundred percent. I will get married hundred percent, not thinking about tennis.   
   
 Q. You have physios, ice baths, all these things you can do to help you physically recover. On the emotional side of things, what does emotional recovery look like?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: That's why I said, I think it was the biggest issue today for me. When you see me play, I get really, really emotional. Some players, they don't get so many emotions, but I just play with it. That's how I am.   
Maybe if I would get the day off, it would help me. But it was just so close playing today's match after yesterday. So I think that was the toughest for me, I would say. It was more tough for me than maybe physically.   
   
 Q. After Saturday, is it back to the courts for you? Do you have a honeymoon booked anywhere?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: No, no honeymoon, nothing like that. We don't have time for that. We're not crazy about honeymoon. We still have Sunday brunch with our friends. I'm supposed to play in Stanford. It's week after. But we'll see.   
I feeling right now very tired and I need some energy and I need to be ready and feel like I want to play tennis and I want to go to the tournaments. I need few days off right now.   
   
 Q. Do you think it's fair that men get an extra day to recover before their quarterfinals?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: I don't know fair, no fair. It's just like this and you cannot do anything with it.   
I think their matches, they will also play one day and the day after. I think they play quarterfinals and semifinals like this, or they always day off?   
   
 Q. Always day off.   
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Until the finals?   
   
 Q. Here, yeah.   
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Okay, so that's not fair. Yeah, that would help me. Okay, yeah, so... What you can do?   
   
 Q. As you sit there right now, what is the overwhelming emotion that you feel? Is it sadness, exhaustion, disappointment?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: It's all together, you know, everything. It's mixed. Right now I can finally start to think about the wedding. I really looking forward. But I still here. It's all together.   
After the match, I was really, really sad, like, I lost. I didn't feel my hundred percent on the court today. It was like real sadness and disappointment. It's just mixed up the feelings all together.   
   
 Q. After your success here and at Eastbourne, your newfound love of grass, are you going to refocus onto more grass in the future?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yes. This year I also wanted to play in Birmingham, yeah. But I got a little injury. I couldn't play. Actually before Eastbourne, I just hit two or three times on a grass court, and we came to the Eastbourne. I had to take care of my injury.   
You see, you know, when I'm mentally strong, I think I can play on every surface, on every big stage on the tournament. I just need to look forward to go on the court, on the match, want to fight there for every ball. I needed energy for it.   
   
 Q. Anything you can reveal about the dress?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: I really like the dress, but I don't know what to say. You will maybe see it on the pictures.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT