U.S. OPEN
August 31, 2015
Dominka Cibulkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. CIBULKOVA/A. Ivanovic   
6-3, 3-6, 6-3   
An interview with:   
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Obviously this is a great way to start the tournament.  Your thoughts on the match and the way you played.  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, of course it's a great first round.  I knew it's gonna be really tough match.  It's a great opponent.   
But, you know, I knew my game is getting together.  Even last week in New Haven I was playing well.  Lost to Safarova in tight three-setter, but I knew, you know, that my game is getting together.   
So I'm just happy I had the chance to play first match on Ashe today.  It was extra energy, extra motivation, and it was just a great match.   
I knew I could close in the second set.  I was 3-1-up, 40-Love and then I lost my rhythm a little bit.  I was playing not as aggressive as before and she took advantage of that.   
She's a great player.  But then I knew I'm better on the court today.  I just have to be still active and I just have to go for my shots.   
I was also really strong mentally today.  The scores, I was 4-2 up, 15-40 on my serve, and these are the points that makes the difference against such a player.   
 Q.  She said in her press conference she ran into a really good player today.  You mentioned New Haven.  Obviously you had first-round losses the last couple years, but how confident do you feel right now that you can make a real go at this tournament?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, it's still pretty far.  Just passed the first round.  Obviously I beat a great player, but now I want to keep going, you know.   
I have been far in a Grand Slam so I know what it takes.  I know what you have to do.  You know, I'm just happy with my performance.  I think I'm going to see a little bit from the match, but from tomorrow on I have to prepare for my second round.   
I just take big confidence from here.  You know, I didn't play for four, five months this year, so it's, for me, huge win here in the first round of a Grand Slam.   
 Q.  Achilles?  Are you completely over that?  
DOMINIKA CIBULKOVA: Yeah, I'm fit; feeling good still.  At Wimbledon when I started my first tournament it wasn't 100%, but now it's -- I am feeling 100% healthy.  That's what gives me extra confidence, too.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT