U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 24, 2015
Philip Barbaree
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Tell us about the excitement of getting to the semifinals after making the round of 32.PHILIP BARBAREE: Yeah, it's really exciting.  I was just telling myself out there -- it was probably the most fun I ever had on the golf course just with all the cameras and everything.  That was awesome. Just good know I'm playing good and ready to get back out.Q. You birdied the first two holes.  Got off to a quick start.  How did you birdie those holes?PHILIP BARBAREE: The 1st hole I made about a 25-footer for birdie; second hole I just got up and down after I hit it over the green in two on the par-5. It was really important get out early and make those birdies playing him.Q. And then you continued that momentum on the back.  You birdied the 10th hole.PHILIP BARBAREE: Yeah, I did.  I hit a 3-wood down the middle, 8 iron to about five feet.  That kind of put the pressure on him since he was out of position on his tee shot. Was also really important to start out the back nine strong.Q. Closed him out on 16.  You really didn't have to make the putt, but you still showed you had the feel of the greens.PHILIP BARBAREE: Yeah, 15 I thought I made it, and it just skirted by the left side. Then 16 I was just trying to have good speed.  Since I knew he already made par, I knew I only needed to make par. It was good to see to give me some momentum going into the next match.Q. Already played 20 holes today.  How are you feeling as you head to the semifinal?PHILIP BARBAREE: Actually, I'm feeling pretty good.  I am feeling a lot better than I was yesterday honestly.  Yesterday I was wiped out. Today I'm feeling a lot better.  I drank a lot water and Powerade, so I'm good to go.Q. How are is your stamina?PHILIP BARBAREE: It's doing good.  It's doing fine.  Thought I would be pretty tired, but I'm actually fine right now.  Maybe the moment is kind of helping me stay awake.Q. How have you dealt with the delays?  There has been like ten hours of weather delays this week.PHILIP BARBAREE: Yeah, today was the only morning I really got caught up in the delays.  Other days I had a good tee time. Yesterday was really the only day that I got into some trouble, but I came back this morning and it was fine.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT