BATTLEFROG FIESTA BOWL: NOTRE DAME VS OHIO STATE
December 28, 2015
Darron Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. Joey and Josh were just talking about how they appreciate the fact that guys are all in, they're not pulling away now.  Is it easy to be distracted when you think about those things?  How have you stayed keyed in?
DARRON LEE: With this team, no.  Our coaches have done a great job keeping us focused, leaders of our team, our captains have done a great job of keeping us focused.
I know the easy thought happens to be, They're not in the national championship, so they're not going to play as hard.  That's not the case at all.  I think it's actually kind of funny because it's not the case.
Q. They don't understand?
DARRON LEE: They don't understand our team, our bond.  They don't understand how deep it is.
Q. Is it playing for pride, as well?
DARRON LEE: Absolutely, pride has a huge role in this.  At the same time, we're not flying across the country to lose.  That's just the mentality of our team.  We're a focused group.  We're competitors.  We'll compete in this football game.
Q. What do you need to do to get that win, some of the keys to victory?
DARRON LEE: Strong units.  We have to execute our game plan.  We have to play great defense, win the kicking battle.  Field position, of course.
I think those are the main keys to win.  If you come out strong and everybody is firing on all cylinders, we'll be okay.
Q. Notre Dame was complimentary of the defensive unit they saw with you guys.  How good are you guys defensively?
DARRON LEE: I feel personally, my personal opinion, I think we're the best defense in the nation.  I'm probably a little biased.  But I think we're very, very, very sound, we're a disciplined group.  We're smart.  I feel people underestimate us, all 11 guys are smart.  We all know what's going on.  We all know what to look for.  We all know formations.  We're all on the same page.  I think that helps our chemistry.
Q. What have you seen on video about the Fighting Irish?
DARRON LEE: They're faster than they have been in previous groups.  Their runningbacks used to be receivers also.  Honestly, their offensive line, O-line, is the best O-line we're going to face all season.  Very athletic, very disciplined.
They have DeShone going back there, gets those guys going.
Q. Does it help going against guys like J.T. and Cardale in practice?
DARRON LEE: Yes.  DeShone is a heck of a quarterback, smart quarterback.  He gets that offense going.  I think it helps seeing guys like J.T. and Cardale every single day, throwing the way they do, making reads the way they do, that helps us tremendously.
Q. Any worries up front losing those two guys?
DARRON LEE: No.
Q. Michael Hill has played a lot.
DARRON LEE: Michael, Donovan Munger.  The way practices have been going, we'll be fine.
Q. What do you miss the most?
DARRON LEE: It's only a slight bit different.  The original family, Tommy and Adolphus, but from where we started at the beginning of the season to where we are now, these guys have gotten a lot of reps and more experienced.  I'm not worried personally.
Q. Both teams have similar losses.  Do you think there's an argument to be made from going from four to eight?
DARRON LEE: I don't know.  That's a good question.  I know it's hard on the players' bodies.  That's a lot more games.  I'm sure they figured out a way around that.
Just seeing how teams have played close games this year, I wouldn't mind seeing it personally.  I might be a little biased also.  I still feel we're one of the top four teams in the country, it's just we didn't show it on one night.
Q. A lot of guys on both teams that are young know the tradition of Notre Dame.  Does this feel like a big-time game for you?
DARRON LEE: Absolutely.  Notre Dame, Ohio State, big game, alumni, big in that aspect.  I mean, Notre Dame has been Notre Dame for so long.  We're Ohio State.  Two prestigious teams, traditions, going at each other.  It's going to be a great game.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT