OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 19, 2015
Darron Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Northern Illinois - 13
  Ohio State - 20 
  
 Q.  The interception, could you walk us through that play, what you saw?  
DARRON LEE: Just keying in on their splits.  We saw a bunch of times in the first half, I think it was No. 10, and he was close to us, number two receiver, I knew it was coming, made a play.   
 Q.  How determined were you to make a play there?  You looked like you jumped it with gusto?  
DARRON LEE: I mean, really just read it and went and made a play.  Knew we needed something.  Just tried to make something happen.   
 Q.  That's what I was going to ask you:  Was there a sense that that had to happen in this game, kind of get some distance?  
DARRON LEE: Doing my job, I guess.  But defense -- once again, the offense takes a minute to get their rhythm, we know we've got to go out there, have fun, do our job, stop them.   
 Q.  You guys seemed kind of irritated throughout the week that people questioned what happened last Saturday, and it was 38-0.  If that's going to probably happen now in a 20-13 game, what was the mindset for you guys in the locker room?  Are you disappointed with this today or just happy to win?  
DARRON LEE: We're happy to win.  I don't really know.  We're not really blaring music down there.  As a team, we wanted to be going on all cylinders.  So we'll just get things corrected and get better for next week.   
 Q.  Do you feel like you guys are the No. 1 team in the country right now?  
DARRON LEE: I don't really want to speak on that.  But I know we've got a lot of work to do.   
 Q.  Their quarterback, how good did you think he was?  
DARRON LEE: Honestly, that's a heck of a football team.  That felt more like a Big Ten team, to be honest with you.  That quarterback, he made plays for them.  We tip our hat to them; they played a heck of a ballgame on both sides of the ball.  Quarterback made plays for them.  Had other guys make plays for them.  They came in here ready to play.  And that was heck of a football team.  We're just glad to get a W.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT