AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: ANGELS v YANKEES
October 22, 2009
Joe Saunders
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 YANKEES  – 6
  ANGELS  – 7 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Joe Saunders.  
  
  Q. I'm just wondering who you think the pressure is on next game? You or him? Him or you? I mean, it seems to me like you're playing with house money at this point. They're the favorites. They're going home.   
 JOE SAUNDERS: I wouldn't say we're the favorites.  
  
  Q. They're the favorites.   
 JOE SAUNDERS: Well, they are the favorites. But after this one we've got obviously a lot of confidence, a lot of momentum. We're going to be ready to play. It's going to be the usual Yankee hostile environment. It's going to be a lot of fun. They're going to be all over us. It's going to be a good battle.  
 THE MODERATOR: Anything you want to say about tonight's game, Joe?   
 JOE SAUNDERS: After tonight's game if you're a fan and you like drama, you've got your money's worth. But this is just one of the games that you look back on it and say, hey, we've got the lead, we gave up the lead, and we never say die attitude with this club. I'm just proud to be a part of it.   
 The fact that we came back and did what we did was just awesome.  
  
  Q. How do you mentally ready yourself for a start when you don't know whether you're going to be starting or not?   
 JOE SAUNDERS: How do I mentally prepare for a start?   
  
  Q. How do you get ready for a start if you don't know you're going to be pitching or not?  
 JOE SAUNDERS: I know I'm going to be pitching. I think I'm the only guy that can pitch now. I think everybody's been used up pretty good.  
  
  Q. You don't know if there's going to be a game or not is what I'm saying?  
 JOE SAUNDERS: I was in the bullpen tonight, and I was the emergency after the emergency guy. So you go down to the bullpen and hope you don't have to pitch. Hope we can win, and hope that we get another shot at them.   
 I think it's going to be a lot of fun, and I'm going to prepare for this next start tomorrow.  
  
  Q. What did you take away from your Game 2 start? What did you learn about facing this team in October?   
 JOE SAUNDERS: I mean, they're pretty much the same team all around in the regular season, too. They're tough. They're a tough lineup, a patient lineup. As I said before if you get behind them and they get in the hitter's counts, it makes your life really difficult as we saw tonight.   
 So just go after them. Be aggressive early on, and throw strikes. Hopefully we'll get some outs.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT