BELGIAN KNOCKOUT
May 17, 2018
Nicolas Colsaerts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 3-under, happy with that?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Yeah, very happy.  It's good to pull off a round like this, not a lot of mistakes, a couple of great saves off the trees.  I'm sure you liked a few of them, and nice save on the last, as well.  In control all day.  I knew that the scoring wasn't going to be that low.  It's not an easy course.  You can do a lot of mistakes.  I had to make sure that I kept focused on what I needed to do on this tight and windy day.
Q. Looks a tight course out there and like it's getting more and more bouncy as the day goes on?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Yeah, it's not often you play tree-lined firm, if it's tree-lined soft, it's easy, you can just throw darts, it's fine.  But when it's a bit dry, we've played a few courses like this.  Wentworth can be like that, too.  When it gets firm and bouncy, you get a bit more often in the trees, so you have to take that into account.
Q. Is it nice hitting 2-irons?  You're not able to take driver out all the time.  Is it quite nice?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Yeah, it's a good change.  It keeps it fresh.  I think it's actually a pretty good warmup for Wentworth next week.  Wentworth is probably like a bigger version of this.  This is very old school and tight, and you really have to think your way around, play the corners, play the map, actually.  So I think it's a pretty good warmup for next week.
Q. Looks like the community is out with you.  You had some monster crowds with you.
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Yeah, it's funny, you see faces that I've known 15 years that I haven't seen for a long while, people that were involved in junior golf when I was playing.  Yeah, it was a decent turnout this afternoon, and I'm sure there's going to be even more for the local, Pieters, this afternoon, I have no doubt.
Q. Your mom and dad, they seemed to be enjoying it?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Yeah, they are having a good time.  It's the first time that we bring our little three-months old into the country.  Yeah, so they support me, but then they have to baby-sit a little bit, as well, for a couple hours.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT