THE BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 10, 2011
Nicolas Colsaerts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Didn't get off to a very fast start today. But yeah, pretty good -- it was front row seat, watching Luke play today was a pure delight. He just hit every shot exactly the way it was meant to be, and putted quite well. It was just very -- feel kind of fortunate to see a display like this today to be honest.  
  
  Q. Yours was pretty impressive, a flawless round, as well, wasn't it?  
 NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Like I said, I didn't get off to the fastest of starts. But after 13 holes, I birdied three in a row so kind of glad the way I finished, so quite a good week.   
  
  Q. Probably one of those when you look back afterwards and think 14-under in that position, that's not bad at all?  
 NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Very delighted with the way I played. This was probably -- today was probably the biggest or the best warm-up I could have asked for next week for The Open, playing in one of the last groups with two exceptional players in front of big crowds and playing a links course like this one, I couldn't have hoped for a better warm up.   
  
  Q. Looks like Angel has his game together, as well?  
 NICOLAS COLSAERTS: He does but it's just the way he plays, it's just up-and-down sometimes but manages to get it around quite beautifully as well, too.   
  
  Q. What you said about Luke, elaborate?  
 NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Yeah, just made it look very easy, every time he had a decent chance, he grabbed it, and like I said it was quite a display.   
  
  Q. You've been in this company many times, but do you still learn something when the world No. 1 is playing alongside?  
 NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Yeah, you are just amazed by the calmness he plays the course and he just doesn't take any shot on that he doesn't really feel like -- he just hits so many shots down the line, it's just a joke, every time he pulls an iron, it's going to be quite close. I'm still under shock. No, no, I felt very fortunate to play with him today.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT