THE BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 8, 2011
Nicolas Colsaerts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Played pretty good. I got on a streak with an eagle on 13, birdied the first and second, and so I was I think 1- or 2-under, and all of a sudden I find myself 5- or 6-under it. It got pretty quick at one stage. Played all right all day except for two hiccups on the front nine which was my back. But apart from that I played pretty good I thought.   
  
  Q. Clearly the scoring is better than the opening day, so is that down to weather conditions, just down to playing better?   
 NICOLAS COLSAERTS: It was a bit calmer the first I would say six or seven holes this morning. It was easier to get off to a good start like we did.  
  
  Q. Certainly seems like the kind of course that you can shoot a very good score when the weather is right.   
 NICOLAS COLSAERTS: We all knew this course was going to show what is on the leaderboard. The wind is really the only thing that makes the course tough, so try to capitalise on the downwind par 5s, because there's a few.   
 So yeah, well, I guess wind is probably the only major thing that will make the course tough.  
  
  Q. Does it suit a long hitter, regardless of weather?   
 NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Obviously, yeah, you don't have to hit driver everywhere. There's a lot of holes where you hit irons off the tee, so I don't think it's a super-long golf course. But it's really a nice, nice, nice course.  
  
  Q. You're a fan of it then?  
 NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Yes. Obviously we play a lot of links golf on the Amateur calendar, so it's always a shame we don't play as much links golf as we used to in the past.   
  
  Q. What do you reckon will end up as maybe the lead score today?   
 NICOLAS COLSAERTS: I don't know, what is it now? 11? I don't know, maybe just a little lower than that. But like I say, if you play 18 in the wind it doesn't really make your round any easy.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT