VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
May 22, 2011
Nicolas Colsaerts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Your thoughts on the whole week?  
 NICOLAS COLSAERTS: One of the best weeks of my life, really. You get to play against these boys. I pushed them all the way to the end and I've beaten a few. I had a great chance to beat Ian today, but every time his putter comes out of the bag, your heart is beating. Great match-play player, obviously.   
 So kind of glad that I still put a fight back after being 2-up with four to go. And all-square with two to go. And birdied just in front on 17. I'm quite happy with the way I fought.   
  
  Q. You should be proud of yourself, as well, particularly the way you did regroup 17, 18 and get it to an extra hole.   
 NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Yeah, yeah, I've done pretty well on the last two, but I've missed a few chances to go 3-, 4-up. I could easily be 4-up. But, you know, that's the thing. If you leave an open door to a guy like Ian, he's just going to slip right in there.   
 So it just makes sense but it's all good fun. The last hour of this match was quite exciting to be a part of.   
  
  Q. We've touched on this, with your wonderful victory at the Volvo China Open, but are you a different player this season, that much more mature, as well as having the game?  
 NICOLAS COLSAERTS: I don't know, I wouldn't really take this week as an example. Match play is a different thing and you try to hole everything and you try to give yourself as many chances as you can. Obviously stroke play is always in the back of your mind, but a bit different. I don't think I'm different.   
 This was a great experience for me to play match play in such an environment, but I enjoyed every round and every match.   
  
  Q. Certainly as an observer, your manner and demeanor is brimming with confidence.   
 NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Confidence is pretty high. We have always knew that we had a good game and we have got the passion, and that we just love this sport so much that we sort of put everything on our side.   
 To be in a match like this against Ian, if you leave the door open, he's going to go through that door and give you a hard time until the end.   
 So it's my fault; I could easily have been 3-up, 4-up, but I didn't take the chances. But I'm quite happy with the way I played on the last two holes that I was 2-up with four to go, and I'm all-square with two to go. So quite happy with the way I handled 17 and 18.   
  
  Q. Finishing third in this championship, does it give you a boost in confidence for tournaments to come?  
 NICOLAS COLSAERTS: It gives me more of a boost for myself, for knowing what kind of player I can become. So it's not really -- obviously I'm going to carry a bit of confidence. I'm going to try to sleep a little bit, because we have been playing a lot of golf in the last three days. But yeah, I'm probably going to pull out of one or two weeks in the future, but no, this week has been really very, very exciting.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT