VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
May 21, 2011
Nicolas Colsaerts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You stayed patient until the end with Graeme McDowell.   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Yeah, losing the first hole, 1-down, I thought, here we go, I'm going to get beaten 6 & 5. The match this morning was a little tough, it went all the way to the end. So I thought maybe I was going to run out of a bit of steam. But I won two or three holes quickly on the front nine, which got me to 2-up, and it was quite an exciting match. You had to make birdies to win holes. Is and I thought I was playing good golf.  
  
  Q. You're playing solidly at moment, any preference to play tomorrow Ian Poulter or Francesco Molinari?  
 NICOLAS COLSAERTS: No, not really, match play, you take anyone. I've known Francesco for a little longer maybe, but I'll play anyone really.  
  
  Q. How do you reflect on that marvelous victory and indeed a marvelous day?   
 NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Yeah, it's been a bit of a tough match this afternoon. I had to go all the way to the end this morning. Like I said earlier, I thought it was going to be very long and I thought I was going to run out of steam and everything.   
 But I managed to stay very focused. Didn't let anything come and intrude on my little world. So quite delighted with the way I handled the back nine, because with Graeme, you had to make birdies to win holes, and they don't come for free on this course.   
 So, yeah, quite happy with the way we won.  
  
  Q. And you would have expected something tough, moving up, level, clear again but it was never over until you managed to sink the final one?  
 NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Making birdies, 11, 12, after losing 10 and 9 sort of got the momentum -- kept the momentum going, which was very important. Because you know that when you're against somebody of the calibre of Graeme, you know it's going to be tough, and you're going have to show some teeth.  
  
  Q. Was you showing the teeth well enough to impress yourself?   
 NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Yes and no. I think I've been playing well long enough, and I understand what I'm doing a little better now. I can maybe -- I may be understand a bit more what to do and what not to do to get the most out of my game.   
 Match play, obviously, it's a different story. Funny enough, I saw the physio the other day and he said, you can shoot 75 and win, and that's the magic of match play. But the match this afternoon was very exciting.   
  
  Q. You're bound to be tired after being out there that long.   
 NICOLAS COLSAERTS: You have to drink all the time. I don't eat enough. My caddie, he keeps on handing me bars all the time. It's very long days. It's a tough course to walk, even though we get a lot of rides and everything, some of the walks, it gets warmer and warmer. The intensity gets up. So you use a bit of fuel, I would say.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT