VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
May 20, 2011
Nicolas Colsaerts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Do days get any better than this?  
 NICOLAS COLSAERTS: It was obviously this afternoon was different than this morning. It was a much more relaxed game. You could enjoy it a bit more, and I played pretty well early on, Rory didn't play his best today, didn't really hole anything.   
  
  Q. Was there any sense coming into the week that it was going to be a special one?  
 NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Well, obviously when you get a chance to play in a tournament like this, you want to make the most of it.   
  
  Q. On your day, do you feel like you can beat anyone in the field?  
 NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Everybody in the field can beat anyone. That's the magic of match play. If you get off to a good start and hole a few good putts and the other one doesn't, that's the way it is.  
  
  Q. Most likely you'll play Jhonattan Vegas tomorrow, any previous experience of him? Have you seen him play on TV?  
 NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Yeah, I have seen a little bit. I don't really know the guy. He looks like a very nice guy.   
  
  Q. 3 & 2 against Rory McIlroy this afternoon, looks like you were very much in control of the game all the time. How was it?  
 NICOLAS COLSAERTS: I started pretty nicely, you know, early in the round, and Rory didn't play as good as I did. Well, he played as good but he didn't really hole anything. I was quickly up 2-, 3- and 4-up, so I didn't really give him anything, either.   
  
  Q. Very happy about winning your group?  
 NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Obviously it was a bit different this afternoon, because Rory and I knew we were going to go through anyway. So it's only a matter to know who you're going to play next.   
 It was very good for me to play a sort of free game like this. I was a little tense this morning, but this afternoon was a different story and glad that I have a chance to breathe a little bit more this afternoon.  
  
  Q. Would it make any difference to you to play against McDowell or Vegas tomorrow?  
 NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Well, not really. They both are good players. Graeme won the U.S. Open. Jhonattan won on the PGA Tour, so anybody in the field is as good as anyone I guess, whoever you play.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT