NISSAN IRISH OPEN
May 19, 2006
Nicolas Colsaerts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Tell us how good it feels to be leading the tournament?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:  It feels really good because I played really well. I actually felt like I left a couple out there because four or five of my putts today just shaved the hole. So it could have been a truly excellent round but 67 is pretty good because the course is not easy even though it played a little easier than yesterday.
Q. All the better because of all the delays you've suffered as well?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:  Well I don't think it is that bad a deal for me because I played well this morning when I came back so it wasn't hard for me to carry on and play as many holes as I could. Also the weather was nice today. It was still blowing a little bit but it is a lot nicer than yesterday.
Q. Can you enjoy it?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:  Well when you play as well as I did today you can but it is kind of hard if you get off to a bad start and you have to grind out there and try to keep your head on, especially here because the golf course is so difficult. Here you can almost make bogey on every hole.
Q. You must be in your element here on such good greens?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:  With the rain they are really green and they are really excellent. This grass here is pretty much what we grew up on so I am much more comfortable over here than I was with the greens out in Asia, so I am pleased to be back here.
Q. It would appear that your game is clicking nicely?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:  Yes I have been pleased with the way I have been playing for a couple of weeks now. I was a little disappointed after Italy to be honest because I played well all week there and I thought I could get at least to 20 under par and I was 18 on the 13th hole on the Sunday and finished on 14 under so that really hurt. But I am still playing well, even though I missed the cut last week.
Q. Are you going to enjoy the battle over the weekend?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:  Yes it will be nice, I wish for some wind and rain as well because that would be a real challenge. That would be cool.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT