VOLVO PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2004
Nicolas Colsaerts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  What's your record like here?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Well, it's my debut here.  Last year I was second reserve, and  I played a practice round, played nicely, fell in love with the place.  Everything is set up to make you feel good here.  What a place, an English audience obviously is always one of best to play in front of.

So, yes, it's nice to be here and play well is a bonus.
Q.  How has your game been?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   It's been up and down, up and down.  I probably don't realize the gold that I have in my hands too much.  Once it clicks nicely in my head, I can get going.  It's weird, you know, I had so many up and downs this year so far and we're only like in May.  It's definitely nice, first time keeping my card.  I'm catching the ball the same way I've always been.
Q.  What exactly do you find so appealing about this course?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Well, it's just the layout.  Once you look at one shot, there's like so many ways.  And how good is it to the ball fly in those trees, and the greens are just pure, the bunker, the sand in the bunkers is just the perfect amount, the perfect kind of sand.

I'm surprised the rough is not that high.  I got a couple of good breaks today because I wasn't really that steady, but I managed to get a couple of good lies and a save.
Q.  You had never been here before at all?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   It's my second     only second year.
Q.  Anything special in the round?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   I did manage a birdie on the last two.  You know, it's my first time playing here what a difference those two holes when you play them from a practice round and when you play them in regular play.  18, I hit a bad second shot so that's why I made par.

But 17 , first time you get there with a scorecard in the bucket, I know you don't have to think about those kind of things, you don't want to hit it left, so you go right, trying to hit that big draw and if it doesn't come, you have to lay up.

So 5 comes easy on 17.  18 is easier but still, you can make 5 pretty easy, too.
Q.  Conditions were pretty perfect this morning?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, you know, the wind picked up quite early, so it's going to be     certainly might blow a little bit harder but not that much.  Obviously in the morning, the greens are always pretty perfect, and the course is really perfect shape.
Q.  Only one player ahead of you at the moment, Ernie Els.  Nice to be up there in that company?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, that's the way it goes.  If you want to be one of best, you have to compete with the best.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT