TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 5, 2017
Nicolas Colsaerts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Yesterday you weren't out of it and certainly you turned it on late.  Can you talk about that run, three straight birdies to put yourself back into contention?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Well, the juices were flowing.  It was great to be able to push it till the end.  I was surprised that none of the other guys were making such a push, where I was only 2-under after 11, 12 holes, and still within reaching distance.   
But yeah, obviously the finish was great.  It's been a while to be able to almost close it and in such a fashion.  I guess there's a lot of positives to take out of it.   
 Q.  You gave yourself an opportunity on 18.  Can you walk us through that, specifically the putt?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: I basically wanted to give me a second shot into the green.  I knew I was running hot.  I hit an unbelievable 5-iron that never left the pin, exactly how I wanted it.  I didn't think that it was going to move that much.  Could have been a little more aggressive with it.  But I still feel like I gave it a good try.   
 Q.  What kind of motivation or inspiration does this give you going into the final two Race to Dubai events?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: It's great for the confidence, of course.  I'm going to play those last two events, trying to squeeze, like I said the other day, squeeze out of these tournaments as much as I can.  It's great to play well in big events, and I can't wait for these next two weeks.   
 Q.  16 and 17, you produced two fantastic shots:  The bunker shot on 16 and the approach on 17 to really keep the pressure on.  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Yeah, I've still got it.  It's been a while since I was able to, you know, put the foot down till the end like that which is great, on holes that do require very good shots and pins that were pretty difficult to get to.   
So very satisfied with the way I handled the last couple holes, which gave me the opportunity to have chance on 18.  It's a little sour but I have no regrets.   
 Q.  Overall, what's pleased you most about the game this week?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: My patience today.  I could have easily let yesterday's round take too big of proportions.  So it wasn't really like I was firing on all cylinders until the last couple holes.  It was a test of patience, actually.  Made sure that I was still there and it's too bad the little one on 18 doesn't drop, but that's the sport.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT