TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 4, 2017
Nicolas Colsaerts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Steady start but of course 11 was the one where it all seemed to go wrong.  Is it fair to say after that happened it just knocked you out of your stride a little bit?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Yeah, it certainly did.  Everything was going according to plan.  I could have been 3-under after three and then caught a mud ball on 11.  It flew a bit funny.  I may be could have been a bit more cautious with the second shot to make sure it stayed dry, but I didn't think I did a lot wrong until then.
Yeah, just took a couple of blows that weren't really necessary.  I mean, I hit two balls in the water.  So I guess I paid the price for it.
Q. Was it a question of being too aggressive?  Because it seemed out of character for what had happened so far this week?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: No, not really.  No, no, the plan was really, really safe.  I was just, like I said yesterday, I wasn't playing stupidly aggressive, but still playing the shots and made sure that my decision making was on point, which I thought was pretty good until I took a couple of blows around 12 and 15.
.  But you know, if you add it all up, it's the only couple of blemish that I've had so far this week.  I'm still within striking distance, which I'm happy with.
Q. Two shots off the lead going into the final day.
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Yeah, yeah, I'm not so far.  When you look at how many holes I shaved today and with two balls in the water, two sixes on par 5s which is probably giving away too many shots on the field; I'm still within reasonable striking distance.
Q. What do you do to regroup for tomorrow?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: I don't really think I really have to.  I felt like I was in control of what I was doing till the 11th when I caught that mud ball, and then yeah, it took me a little while to get back from it after making bogey on a par 5 the hole after.
I still hung in there in the end.  It wasn't really a fantastic display on the last couple holes, but I had to dig deep a little and let's hope I can bring that out in the first bit of it tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT