TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 3, 2017
Nicolas Colsaerts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A 64 yesterday and another one today.  Compare your play over the two days?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Well, I kind of had to work a little bit for this one.  Yesterday was kind of eyes closed and everything kind of falling on my lap.   
Today it's actually more satisfying to shoot the same score but having to go and find it a little bit more.  I still played great.  I kept the ball in play the way I wanted.  I had a bit of a good break on the second that kind of -- start with pretty much what I wanted, and I recovered well every time I hit a bad shot.  So I guess that was a key.   
 Q.  What goes through your mind as that lead was growing and growing?  It was four, five, six shots at one point?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: If I'm capable of going 14-under in two rounds, then somebody else or a few other guys are capable of doing the same.   
I was kind of like playing aggressively, sensibly enough, to still give myself birdie putts, because I have the pace of the greens since yesterday morning and that seemed to be fine.   
 Q.  Thoughts going into the weekend in this position?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Well, I guess the same.  I'm going to try to keep playing the way I've been playing the last two days.  I'm comfortable off the tee.  I've been hitting my irons quite well.  Probably not get ahead of myself, and see wherever that takes me.   
 Q.  Back-to-back 64s.  Can you compare the two rounds?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: A little bit different.  Everything yesterday was kind of eyes closed.  Everything fell on my lap.  Where today, I kind of had to work a little bit more.  Wasn't quite as good off the tee I thought, but still played great shots into greens, and holed the putts that I thought I should have been making.   
So it felt a little bit more like work today, but it's pretty satisfying to go 7-under again without, I thought, playing as smoothly.   
 Q.  When you have a lead like you do right now, do you have to resist the urge to look at leaderboards?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: No, I kind of look.  I was curious to see what the other ones were doing.  No, I tend to look at it from time to time.   
I was in control of what I was doing.  I was playing kind of sensible, aggressive enough to my taste to give myself putts, or putts that I wanted to maybe try to sneak a few more.  But I'm quite happy with the way I played.   
 Q.  You played solid leading into this week, but this seems particularly solid, considering your score.  What's different about this week?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: You know, it is.  When you play well, you feel like you're never really too far off posting something like I did those first two rounds here.  You know, without making the odd bogey here or capitalising on the birdie opportunities that I gave myself here.  I don't know what my average would be on greens in reg.  You know, putting, it should be quite good.   
If I keep having these good birdie tries and have the pace of the greens like I had since yesterday morning, it should look pretty good.   
 Q.  That was a great two days for you.  What can you say about that?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: I'm quite happy with the way I played.  I was quite comfortable from yesterday, as well.  I played well yesterday.  Played the same today.  Same score.   
You know, I'm quite happy with my game, and I probably know this course a little better because we came last year.  But this time I probably understand how to play the course a little bit better.   
 Q.  Do you think your rank will change Saturday and Sunday?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Well, I hope not.  But there's a lot of great players playing this tournament.  If I'm capable of doing what I did the first two rounds, there's got to be other guys that are capable of doing the same.   
 Q.  13 birdies and an eagle over the first two days.  What's the main thing that's gone right for you here?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Well, I understand how to play this course a little bit better than last year.  I'm pretty comfortable off the tee.  I know what shots to play.   
I've been playing quite well since yesterday morning.  I have the pace of the greens straightaway, and I think I'm just playing quite well.  My shots into greens are exactly pretty much what I want.  I don't play aggressive or stupidly aggressively.  Yeah, I'm quite happy with the way I played the first two rounds, actually.   
 Q.  A four-shot lead now going into Saturday.  We saw last week, that doesn't necessarily mean anything, and in a way it's yours to lose, almost.  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Well, I'm only four ahead.  It's not like I'm eight ahead, and I have two rounds to play, and so do the other guys.  If I'm capable of doing what I did the first two rounds, I think there's a bunch of guys that are capable of doing the same.   
I just have to make sure I keep playing the way I do, not get ahead of myself and bring those good vibes that I had the first two rounds to the last two.   
 Q.  Spoke to Kiradech earlier on, and he said he wants to out-drive you tomorrow.  How do you feel your driving's been this week?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: To be fair, I'm not really interested in a driving contest tomorrow.  I've got my eye somewhere else.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT