ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 6, 2017
Nicolas Colsaerts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Good round today.  How was that for you?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Pleased, yeah.  I played pretty well all day.  I started off really good.  Didn't do any stupid stuff.  I made one bad swing, or one bad shot on the first, made double and bounced back right again just like I did yesterday.  So I kind of kept my momentum, which was good and rolled a few ones in on the front nine, which was my back.   
But everything kind of -- I had a good flow, even though it was getting really cold at the end.  I think maybe a little bit of fortune with the wind because it kind of switched a little bit, and we didn't have the last nine into the wind as much as the guys had this morning.  So pretty happy.   
 Q.  How pleased are you with the way you reacted to those double-bogeys?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Yeah, same as yesterday.  Made doubles -- well, I made a double yesterday on the third and bounced back straightaway, and here, same thing.  So it kind of kept me moving forward, even though, you know, you always are frustrated making bogeys when both times I had a clean shot and it wasn't really in the equation.   
But yeah, very happy overall.   
 Q.  What must be the key to the game so far this week?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: I just like playing these courses.  We don't really get to play links that often, and I've always liked the way you can maneuver the ball and play the ground.  Gives you a little bit more flair, and the weather has been pretty nice so far.  When you play those in very hard conditions, it's difficult for everyone.  Here, you can still get a good score.   
 Q.  Carnoustie tomorrow.  What's the tactic?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: The same.  Carnoustie is probably a bit more demanding in every aspect, but I'm in a position I like.  I've played well two rounds.  I should play well at Carnoustie.  It's probably the fairest of all.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT