ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 14, 2017
Nicolas Colsaerts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A steady start to the tournament for you yesterday, but in sort of slightly calmer conditions, you've made a good second round here.
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Yeah, I got on two sets of -- two different sets of roll today.  I made a few birdies early, then slipped back and made a bunch early on the back nine, which kept me going and closed out with another two.
So I kept myself together all day.  I'm slowly getting a hold of this course.  It's never easy when you change venues and it's a course you couldn't really know that much, but it's slowly growing on me.
Q. You missed the cut over the links at Portstewart last week, what's been the difference in the game this week over two days?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: The weather.  It's a slight easier weather to play in.  It's been dry so far.  When you play links in the dry and you get a hold of the course, it's a modern-type golf course, so the greens are not at small as some of the links courses or the typical old school links courses can be.  So yeah, that must be one of the reasons.
Q. Do you change anything about the game when you're playing other links golf courses?  Do you have any different clubs in the bag to allow for the fact the wind might blow?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: No, I haven't changed anything.  I used to have a couple of pretty close long irons, but no, I've kept with my setup.  You play a couple shots that you wouldn't normally play on a normal-type, parkland golf courses.  You run the ball up a bit more and you have much more options off the tee.  You don't really have to kind of be aggressive off the tee as much as it would be on soft golf courses.  You can play irons.  It's whatever fits your eye on certain tee shots I guess.
Q. And 7-under, two off the lead going into the weekend?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Yeah, I'm quite happy with the way I played.  I'm quite happy with the position I'm in.  Now there's two more rounds to put the foot down.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT