BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 28, 2017
Nicolas Colsaerts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Fantastic final round.  Case of saving the best till last?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: You know what, I had it on a string all day.  It could have been 10-under except for one bad swing on 15:  I hit it out-of-bounds, made double, and then still managed to -- of course, 18, very good on the last.  A big swinging putt is the cherry on the cake.  But it could have been really, really, really low today.
Q. You were one of quite a few, not many golfers, rather, that shot par or better yesterday in those windy conditions, so really good, solid stuff over the weekend?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Yeah, yesterday was pretty tough.  I didn't play 18 holes into the tough bit.  But yeah, I felt that if I played the same way, in a way where it wasn't really blowing that much, you could all of a sudden be a bit more aggressive.
You still have to think your a way around, because the greens are a lot more firm.  It's always difficult when you play a golf course that used to be a certain way and the shots are almost the same, but the reaction of the ball on the green is not quite the same.  So it still required a lot of attention.
Q. You've played four rounds on this new Wentworth course, and of course you've played a lot in the past.  What have you made of it over the whole tournament?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Well, two things.  I think design-wise, they have done a really good job at tweaking some holes, changing some of the greens.  The bunkering is much better than it used to be.  It used to be very, very penal.  It's not as bad as it used to be.
And the condition of it, to get this golf course ready in such a shape, in a year's time, I mean, really hats off to the people at Wentworth.  This was fantastic to play, fairways, greens; having them in this condition is really hard to believe.
Q. This will be your best finish of the year so far, and so I suppose the hope is now, especially in these Rolex Series events, you can kick on and climb the rankings.
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: This was definitely the kind of day I was waiting for, because I feel like I've been playing well for a little while but keep making mistakes that were not really allowing me to post the result that I thought I had with my game.  And to be able to do it on the first big, big event of the year in such a fashion, coming back strong on the weekend, is very satisfying.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT