DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 17, 2016
Nicolas Colsaerts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What do you think of a round of 67 to start?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: You know, what I left a lot of them out there.  This could have been a really low one.  This could have been eight or nine, easy.  I missed short ones on my early holes on the back nine.  But I was pretty happy with the display.  I didn't really hit that many bad shots.  The ones where I could go at pins turned out to be very close.  Yeah, it was just a flawless round of golf.
Q. Please tell me you won't beat yourself up about that, but you will take this as a very nice foundation?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: No, yeah, of course it's great.  But when you play that well, you want to squeeze every shot you can out of it.  But yeah, I'm happy with the way I played, and I'm confident I can keep rolling like this.
Q. Perfect conditions, lovely track?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Yeah, I mean, this is probably the one course out of the three of The Final Series that suits my game the best.  I'm not really a big fan of the two others, and this one suits my game very well.  There's corners I can take on.  I can use my length as a big advantage to come with shorter irons into greens, especially the way the greens are designed with these pockets and stuff.
It's, of course, a lot easier if you get a wedge in your hand than if you have a 7- or 6-iron.  So yeah, I've played this course many times now.  I know it in and out.  If I follow my game plan and it turns out the way I want to, it's a course that I can have a pretty good display on hitting.
Q. Does that mean you've been kind of biding your time over the last two weeks, knowing the anticipation and optimism of playing this week?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: A little bit.  Like I said, the first to courses are not really for me, so it was more like, okay, let's see how I can handle the first two events.  But this one is the one that I had my eyes on and I know that if I bring the game that I've been displaying all year out here on this course, it should be a decent recipe.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT