OLYMPIC GAMES RIO 2016: GOLF
August 11, 2016
Nicolas Colsaerts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  NICOLAS COLSAERTS: I didn't know they would announce the three of us, and it was my tee, I stood there for 30 seconds wondering what was going on and Mitch looked at me like, yeah, you're up. Which kind of threw me off a little bit and I quickly went into the long grass left.   
So yeah, everything's a bit different. I understand, you know, this is a big deal. It is the Olympics. Like it has to be different. But not everything has to be different.   
   
 Q. Did you see any wildlife, a capybara?   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Saw one other day in the bush, but today, apart from some wild people in the galleries moving all the time, that's pretty much all the wildlife I saw.  
   
 Q. Does it feel different, the logistics, people moving, a new experience for everyone?   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: You know that the Brazilian crowds are going to be a little bit, because they don't really know much about golf I guess. But when it's media from other sports, from other countries kind of racing to get a shot when you're over the ball; but when you realise that, yeah, it's the size of the event, you have to accept it.   
But we play a sport where I'm not sure you're going to be very welcome on a tennis court if you start taking pictures when these guys are bouncing the ball or serving; same thing.  
   
 Q. What does it mean to you if, in fact, you get yourself into medal contention and win a medal and what does it mean to Belgium, do you think?   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: It would mean a lot on a personal point of view and in a national point of view. Yeah, it would be a dream come true. It's not the first time golf is here, but it will pretty much feel like it, in the modern era, anyway. I feel honored to be here. I really feel proud to be on that list of players that have supported the event. You play for your sport, your country, but yeah, mostly you play for your sport. You take that role of ambassador, and I think most of the guys that got here are really enjoying the experience of seeing these other guys and seeing the other athletes.   
We are all sports fans. We have been going to other events. I haven't seen my caddie any night. He went to weight lifting yesterday. He's going to cycling tonight. It's not often you get to see, you know, history being made like this from so close.   
   
 Q. I know you've been on Ryder Cup, but did it feel different playing for team Belgium versus playing for Team Europe?   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Yeah, Ryder Cup is a much bigger team rush, it's 12 of you and you play match play. Over here, I think if this would have been a match‑play event, you would feel a lot more intensity than we did today.   
   
 Q. Would you like to see a mixed team format down the road‑‑ not to get ahead of things. Play with the ladies?   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: No, I wouldn't do team. I thought just like a tennis draw. You know, you have 64 guys over and you play 36 holes of match play a day. Just like we used to do when we were amateurs, since they like amateurs so much.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT