ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 10, 2016
Nicolas Colsaerts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Thoughts on securing a place at The Open Championship?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: It's a big deal for everyone.  It's the open.  Every time you get a chance to play in The Open, you're buzzing.  I mean, I knew coming down the stretch, it was kind of looking like I needed to make four on the last just to make sure and lock the spot for next week.
I mean, I felt like the last couple of weeks, in France, there was a move possible.  I didn't quite do it.  I was able to do it today, which feels really, really good.
Q. Brilliant memories of playing The Open Championship?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Yeah, of course.  Troon is not my best, but Troon was the first Open I played in, and I didn't really particularly enjoy my first experience at The Open, but I was able to do that on a couple occasions after in the late 2000s, or in early 2010, should I say.
It's great, the crowds, I've always loved playing links golf.  So it will be another chance to do it again.
Q. Having played Troon in the past, I know it didn't work out the first time, but will that help on this visit?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: I don't think so.  I don't really remember much.  I mean, the only hole I remember is The Postage Stamp, of course.  I think I will just treat it like re-discovering the course.  Since 14 years, 12 years, my game and I have changed quite a bit, so it will be a different player showing up next week.
Q. The fact that you got in there so late in the day, does that mean you can free-wheel and absolutely enjoy it?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Yeah, it's a bit of a bonus to be fair.  I needed to shoot a good round today.  I was mentioning to Brian, it feels good to come off the back of the field for once.  And if you look at a lot of the scores I did early in the week, there was a lot of 6s on par 5s, but we are not going to go down that way.
Q. Flying finish here at The Scottish Open.
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Feels great.  Usually in the past, I felt like I maybe have gone the other way, so once to come from behind and do a late charge like this on the back nine, on the last six holes, it's pretty satisfying.
Q. It was so patient, early on, wasn't it, and then you just found a spark, and the eagle, birdie, birdie, birdie?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: I missed a bunch of short ones on the front actually and I was almost starting to lose patience, and then a long one on 12 started that charge.  Then I holed a bunch in succession.  I don't even want to calculate the footage, the length in feet of these putts I holed on the back nine.  It's great.
Q. Are you still conscious of a victory chance then?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Well, I felt like some of these guys were still going to, there's a couple of holes at the end.  There's a couple of accessible pins and there's a par 5 to finish with.  I was kind of more trying to lock The Open spot and make sure that I get to a certain number that won't be reached by others.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT