COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 28, 2016
Nicolas Colsaerts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 10-under overall, what's your assessment?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: A bit more of a grind to be fair.  Front nine was a bit scruffy.  Missed a few.  There's probably a few shots that I would like to have back or have again.  And then made a fantastic eagle on the first, my tenth, that sort of got me back into the rhythm that I was kind of hoping for, then I played pretty steadily for the rest of that side.  4-under is a pretty decent score today I think.
Q. You said about the eagle on the 10th, that's a par 5 and par 5s this week, you're 8-under par.  Is that really the key to this golf course for you?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Somehow it is, yeah.  I've managed them quite well in the last -- or the first two rounds.  I still think that there's a lot of holes, there's a lot of birdie chance.  Especially today, they moved a lot of tees forward, so a lot of the holes that would require a little bit of attention, it was a little easier today.  I mean, it's still a good test, as I'm sure you've seen on TV.
Q. You've dealt with it really well, but is there ever a sense of frustration as a player when you realise that you're on the tough end of the draw?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: I didn't even think about it, so yeah, no comment.
Q. Well, you definitely were on the wrong side of the draw.
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Yeah, so we done well then.
Q. Going forward, next two rounds, going to be difficult again, probably a bit stronger.  Is there a changing game plan going forward to adapt to that?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: No, probably not.  I've played quite well in the last couple years here.  I mean, it seems like I know what to do on certain key holes and key shots.  The back nine is probably a little more scorable, so you kind of -- if you get off to a good start and keep the rhythm going, you can actually play quite well out here.
Q. That eagle was special and important, wasn't it?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Yeah, certainly got my rhythm back on.  The front nine was a bit on and off.  I hit a few holes and maybe thought I could have just slipped the score under par on the front, which I didn't.  But the eagle on the first, my tenth, was certainly the rhythm-kicker that I was hoping for.  And then the rest -- played pretty well the rest of that side, which made me come back in in 4-under which is good.
Q. We say there's so many signs, but is this one of those days when patience is just so key, because you just got to hang in there and wait for your chances?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Certainly, yeah, just the way I started.  The conditions are pretty tough.  It blows a lot.  Even though they have moved a lot of tees forward on holes where I have an advantage over the field, they have obviously made second shots a lot shorter, but it sort of brought back everybody into the field on certain holes.  But yeah, it was certainly a test of patience just because it blows quite a lot, especially in the last half an hour.
Q. So it did get a lot tougher, even though you're making your gains on your back nine?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Yeah, but you're in a good rhythm, you play well, so even if it gets a little bit tougher, if you kind of keep doing the same thing, you maybe sometimes actually don't realise that the conditions get a bit tougher just because you played well, which is I think what I did on the last couple of holes.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT