COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 27, 2016
Nicolas Colsaerts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Bogey-free round of golf today, we've seen plenty of them.  What are you most pleased about?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: My game off the tee actually, when I drive it that well, it makes a round a lot easier.  You know, it's very windy.  I used the wind all day very nicely.  Got on a few corners, which makes this golf course a lot easier for me than it probably does for the rest of the field.  So if I keep playing like this off the tee, I'm always going to be somewhere there.   
 Q.  Feels like your driving has always been a big weapon when it's working well for you.  97th in The Race to Dubai last year, is that really what let you down, would you say?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Yeah, maybe a little bit.  You know, when I don't really take as much control off the tee as I can, it puts maybe a little bit more pressure on the rest of my game.  But when it's on like this, you know, it's very stress-free.   
 Q.  All birdies on the par 5s, is that a part of this golf course you really look forward to, given you've got such a great length off the tee?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Yeah, you know, some of them, 18 is a good example, downwind like that, I can probably reach with an iron in.   
The first is a bit of a tricky tee shot with that wind off the left, and 10 is straight into, so you still need two good whacks to get anywhere near the green in two.  But yeah, I'm sure over the years, if you look at stats, the guys that have done really well must have had a pretty good score on the par 5s.   
 Q.  Just finally, people would like to know, there's quite a strong wind, and we built it up as quite strong and yet a lot of good golf still played today.  Why do you think guys are still manage to go shoot good scores when the wind is blowing like this?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Because I think the rough is not as severe as it had been the last couple years, and the greens are a bit slower.  So therefore, you don't really make big pace mistakes when it gets windy like this, when the greens are a little bit slower than usual.  So I think that's why the scoring is actually that good.   
 Q.  Pleased with your position?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Like I just said, if I'm as good as I am or as good as I was off the tee today, it makes a big difference to the rest of my game because I can come in with shorter irons into the greens.  And I didn't really put myself in any stupid position off the tee, which is the big key today.   
 Q.  And I take it, the more pleasing when you're good off the tee in blustery conditions like this.  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Yeah, because off the tee, you kind of hit the right shots, it kind of sets the tone and sets the rhythm for the way you play the holes and the way you play shots into greens.   
Yeah, very pleased with the way I play off the tee, and if I can keep do this, I'm always going to be somewhere around.   
 Q.  Do you like these kind of conditions, giving you a different kind of challenge?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Yeah, I've always liked windy conditions.  I've posted some decent results here.  It's a course that if it blows a certain way and certain angles on certain holes, I can maybe take a few corners and don't really care if I'm on the fairway or the rough as much as some of the other guys might.  The rough is not as severe, so therefore, there's a few holes where you can open it up.   
 Q.  Do you feel that you wintered well?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Yeah, I think I did, yeah.  Probably one of the best winters I've had in a couple years actually.  Since I didn't play any Final Series event last season, kind of stopped a lot earlier than previous years.  Even though I still went to Australia and Thailand and played a couple of events, I felt like it was good to see something else for a while and not get stuck in seeing the same people and play golf with the same people all the time.   
 Q.  Does this mean also that you could wind down that little bit better or have more dedicated practise or what?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: I mean, to me, it was just a matter of playing tournaments without having the stress of rankings and all of that that I've had for most of the season last year.  So it was good to go to tournaments and kind of play golf again, which was a little bit of a difference.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT