PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 15, 2015
Nicolas Colsaerts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q 64 today, fabulous start again, just like last year.  What was the secret out there?   
NICOLAS GALLACHER: I think I got away with it a few times, especially on the back nine.  I started off in the best of fashion, I was quickly under par.  Kept going with an eagle on 17, missed a few chances on 2, 3, so I probably had a bit more in it.   
It's one of these courses I kind of feel comfortable.  I came so close last year.  It's a good round.   
Q How big a factor is your length for a course like Victoria?   
NICOLAS GALLACHER: Well, it's a pretty big advantage.  There's a couple of holes where I can take shortcuts.  It doesn't really matter if I hit it on the fairway for rough, even though the rough is a bit higher this year.  There's a couple holes where you have still got to be a bit careful.  I would rather come with a pitching wedge from the rough than a 7- or 6-iron from the fairway.  It is one of those courses where hitting it a long way is definitely an advantage.   
Q The greens are slower this year obviously because of the rain they had last week.  Is that something that you don't mind so much?   
NICOLAS GALLACHER: Well, I mean, it's not like they are very, very undulated, maybe just one or two.  So I think a lot of guys would actually favor greens that are a bit slower like this.  You can maybe be a bit more aggressive.  There's a bit of turf on them.  They are going to (indiscernible) a bit more.   
Q What is your take on shooting a 64 straight out of the box like this?   
NICOLAS GALLACHER: Very happy, of course.  I have a pretty good record in this place.  I've played well in the past.  I feel comfortable.  I've played well here before.   
Yeah, coming off a good start like I did today quickly under par, made an eagle on 17 to wrap up a nice front nine.  Then it got a little colder on the front.  Still made another eagle on 6.  Everything kept going.  I still thought that I should have made a birdie here.  I'm quite happy with the way I played.   
Q You looked a tiny bit serious coming in as if it could have been better?   
NICOLAS GALLACHER: I think I gave myself enough chances throughout the day.  I missed a couple that I had good looks at.  But then it's just the way it is.  I'm quite happy with 7-under.  Maybe I had an 8, 9, maybe ten, but 7-under is always a good start.   
Q It's a huge benefit to you coming into an event knowing that you've played well and shot low score in the past?   
NICOLAS GALLACHER: It's not a matter of the scores that you have shot on the course, it's the way some of the holes shape up.  I know I can take it here and there and maybe a couple shortcuts.  It's probably one of the courses that I play the most for whatever reason, I don't know.  Pins and puts and breaks on greens, everything together makes me comfortable out here.   
Q You saw the forecast, so is it imperative to get off to a good start this week?   
NICOLAS GALLACHER: We heard there's a bit of funny stuff coming into the weekend.  You know the this course is a bit of a sprint anyway.  The winning score is always very low, so you try to press on.  When you got a bit of a hot streak, you try to make it last as long as you can and make as many birdies as you can.   
Q A hot streak, we saw you playing well first round in Italy, didn't we?  It translated into the hole of the week?   
NICOLAS GALLACHER: It never really goes according to plan.  Four days of golf, you hit a lot of shots and sometimes they don't go the way you intended.  But, yeah, I'll try to keep doing what I'm doing, use my knowledge of the course to my advantage and try to go as far and as low as I can.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT