OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 29, 2015
Nicolas Colsaerts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Steady improvement so far this season, and that must have been a great feeling, up until the last.   How are you feeling overall?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   I feel very good.   I was in the zone all day.   I was pretty‑‑ I was actually very average off the tee.   I hit it all over the place but my iron shots into the greens were exceptional.   I still felt like I left a few out there.   Could have easily been 10‑under today I thought.

Q.   Must feel good then to achieve that when you're not playing your best; give you big ambitions for the rest of the week?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Well, it's mixed feelings because I was hitting it waywards off the tee; and then seven shots into the green, I must have been looking like I was owning the place, so it's a bit of mixed feelings really.

Q.   In SKY, we have great confidence in you and this is from the SKY Sports website, one of our tipsters asking, "Can Nicolas Colsaerts upstage Rory McIlroy at the Emirates?"   Pretty good forecasting, isn't it. 
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, it's a good omen.   I would obviously like to keep it going.   If I can probably be a bit steadier off the tee, hit it in the short stuff more often and be a bit more comfortable on the greens, it should be pretty good.

Q.   And your targets this year? 
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   I haven't set anything to be fair.   I'm still into the recovering process, coming back from America, I'm quite comfortable being over here.   I'm quite happy being here, you know, and in tournaments I haven't played in a while, so things getting back in shape.   I feel pretty good. 

Q.   What are your thoughts on a lovely low round to start this championship?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Well, very happy because I was very comfortable being 6‑, 7‑, 8‑under.   I thought it could have been a lot lower to be fair.   I missed a bunch of 12‑, 15‑footers I thought, you know, I had really good looks at.   I wasn't very good off the tee‑‑ or not good enough, but then second shots into the greens were exceptionally good.   But mixed feelings to be fair.

Q.   It's a course you've done well at in the past; you've had a fair number of low rounds here?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   I think it's the one out of the three that probably requires the most local knowledge, just because of the greens and where to hit it.   The other two courses we play in The Desert Swing are maybe a bit fairer; if you hit it straight, it's pretty obvious what you have in front of you.   Where here, there's a couple corners, especially for long hitters, there's a couple of lines that you really need to get on the dot to give yourself a good second shot in.

Q.   You mentioned those other courses.   Has this been a nice progress to start the year? 
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, I'm very happy because the first couple days were, well, couple of days before Abu Dhabi it didn't really look that good.   So, yeah, I'm quite happy with the way things are shaping up or taking progress.   Yeah, I'm quite happy with that.

Q.   In Qatar you were playing a lot on the range, trying to sort out the driver and different heads and different testing.   All a work‑in‑progress?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, it is, unfortunately.   I think today is a bit of both; I didn't think I was particularly swinging it well with the driver, so that's where I'm heading right now.

Q.   Did you feel confident on the back end of last year, eager to get going this season?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, it was just a sign of how more comfortable I am playing over here and with the company of others and seeing faces that I'm very used to, courses that I'm used to play, even though I have not played in these for a couple of years, but I've played in these so many times that it really has the vibe of coming back home. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT