HONG KONG OPEN
October 16, 2014
Nicolas Colsaerts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Tell me how good 4‑under par is around here? 
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Well, you need to play good to shoot any score under par I think.   You easily get yourself in trouble if you don't hit the fairway, you don't really get it close, because the greens are rolling quite fast. 
So, yeah, from tee‑to‑green, you need to be pretty good to give yourself birdie chances.   The greens are pretty slick, and when you play in the morning, you notice once you go past, like 11 o'clock, you can see the grain coming in more to play on the grain, so that's the tricky part.   But yeah, I'm quite happy with my score. 

Q.   You're a man who came mightily close to a 59 in Portugal and this is a par 70, very short course. 
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   I'm curious to know how many times some of the guys got close to 60, how many chances they had.   I'm curious to see how close I can get to another 59 again.   I don't think you can go that low out here.   You really need to be on an A++ kind of game to give yourself that kind of chance on this course.

Q.   That was my point, really, that this course doesn't give up those kind of scores.   It's old‑style, a lot of strategy involved. 
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, you know, most of the greens slope from back to front and if you're over the hole, then you're basically just lagging it even if you're pretty close.   You need to be under the holes all the time to give yourself really good looks at it, and even if you're pin‑high, you're coming out with a lot of slope on them, and like I said, grain.   We haven't played bermudagrass for quite some time so takes a little bit of adjustment.   I'll be curious to see how the Europeans play this week.

Q.   You've come from Portugal, other side of the world; how are you? 
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   I'm okay.   I'm waking up in the middle of the night.   None of my bags showed up until Wednesday morning probably two hours before the Pro‑Am.   I didn't do a very good effort at trying to get into the jet‑lag, and done pretty badly. 
So I think I'm going to be up or waking up quite early in the middle of the night for most of the week, but that's fine. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT