PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 9, 2014
Nicolas Colsaerts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Sensational round of golf, tinge of disappointment, but huge elation about how you played out there. 
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, it's one of those days where you just hit the shots and you just try to switch off and just play one hole after another. 
When I made eagle on 15, I thought that‑‑ I knew then that if I birdied the last three, that would have been 59.   So parred 16 and then walking down the fairway on 16, I tell Brian after I hit a good drive, I was like, "It's 59 or nothing."
Hit a good drive.   It's too bad it just shaves the edge.   I thought it was going to be slightly left‑to‑right at the end and it kind of went straight and basically just left it hanging.   Too bad, I thought it was a pretty good effort, especially with these dark clouds that we saw at the back.   It's a great setting.

Q.   When you know you're playing as well as that and you're in that zone, how did you stop yourself not‑‑ clearly you had to be aggressive to try to go out and play, but how did you stop letting it become such a big factor in your head that you kind of get out of that zone?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   You just try to switch off.   I told myself over a couple of putts, especially the one for eagle on 15 already, when you're in that situation, you just try to switch off and just trust what you've seen and what you feel. 
We're good enough, you don't want any pollution coming in.   That's usually why we miss shots.   I just want to make sure that I not thought about anything else.

Q.   Obviously great performance in Wales, the form has clearly been turning around, what do you really put that down to? 
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Well, I've been back here since June, and it took me a little bit of weeks to recover some of the aches from being in America for so long and just find my rhythm again. 
Obviously going to The Ryder Cup and doing some radio work kind of helped, and seeing them play well kind of pumped me up a little bit.   And yeah, I'm just glad to be back.   It's kind of like the last hurdle to try to get into the last couple of events and that's the best start I could probably hope for.

Q.   And your focus now very much back on The European Tour?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, yeah, I'm going to be here until God knows when, but I'm not putting a big cross in the U.S., but it's not going to be any time soon.   So you'll see a little bit of me.

Q.   Very well played today, a round of 60.   At what point during the round do you start thinking 59? 
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   On 16th tee box.   I eagled 15.   I drove the green probably just like ten feet left of the hole and holed that and realised then that if I birdied the last three, it was going to be that famous 59. 

Q.   Scott Jamieson came very close last year, so a course that perhaps it's a course that's geared up to hitting that landmark?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, it is, and especially for guys that kind of hit it a long way, there's not a lot of rough and the greens are probably more tender the last couple years, so the greens are pretty receptive.   You can throw any iron into the greens and the ball is going to finish where it lands.   It's maybe one of the courses you could kind of see a 59 happening.

Q.   You just came back on to The European Tour, tied fourth in Wales, you must feel now you're hitting form at the right time as we head towards the busy end of season?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, to be honest with you, I came back in June and it took me a couple of weeks to get back into the rhythm of being here again, and recover some of the aches of being in America for so long. 
Yeah, whatever happens at the end of this week, I'm going to be either quite happy getting into the big events or be quite happy to take two months off.   So it's a win/win situation for me.

Q.   Knowing that a very low score will win this week, it means that perhaps being aggressive for the next two days or three days is going to be key?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Well, as we all know, it's kind of difficult to follow a score that low, but yeah, I've always felt pretty comfortable on this course.   I've always played well.   It never really clicked for me, but kind of did today and I hope I'm going to be able to stay in the same frame of mind the next couple days. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT