PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 12, 2013
Nicolas Colsaerts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Another low number and a good round on Sunday‑‑  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Well, I thought I could maybe squeeze a couple of more and get myself a little closer of the lead, I played pretty well.   You know, it was quite windy this afternoon I felt, and yeah, just a little too far, but obviously anything could happen tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   We are seeing 60 today, so we know there are low numbers out there.   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, of course.   The greens are not really fast, so you can go at it.   I've left, I don't know how many millions of putts short this week already.   But yeah, the occasions, it's there, every time.   So I'm not surprised‑‑ well, today, I don't know what time he played, but if it was anywhere this afternoon, 60 is almost like 50.  
   
 Q.   Confidence high following Seve Trophy last week.   We noticed you on the range the other day with Ollie working on a few things, can you enlighten us on?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Well, a little bit of short game really.   I was fortunate enough to have lived very special moments with Ollie the last year or so, and last week.   So he sure is ‑‑ he's a sharer.   He loves this game so much, so that when he sees somebody that needs a bit of help, he's quite keen to give some.   Obviously if you can teach from one of the masters going down Seve, Ollie, blah, blah, blah, it's quite an occasion you have to grab.  
   
 Q.   Obviously everything is achieved in the game, but he's an inspiration to so many, and what you said, you've had some fantastic memories the last couple years, but I'm sure it was special from a technical point of view, but what it meant for you as well.   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Well, it's unbelievable to think that Ollie had spend two hours with me on the chipping range the other day.   I mean, you don't really come across a lot of people that would take two hours or three hours of their time, especially a player of that calibre with that kind of C.V.   
So felt very privileged to have the chance to‑‑ and, you know, I think it will probably happen in the future, as well, which I'm really looking forward to.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT