U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 13, 2013
Nicolas Colsaerts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.     (Inaudible.)  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   The course gets wet like this on occasion.   Yeah, I actually hold a pretty good putt to par.   It kept me 1‑over par and made two birdies in a row, and it brings back a pretty good score.  
   
 Q.   Do you think this course fits your eye?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   I think it does.   I'm a decent ball‑striker, which is key on a U.S. Open set up.   If it is soft the ball pretty much responds.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Well, when we came out this morning the greens were lightning fast.   Obviously the break and the rain made it a little slower and the ball was sticking on the greens a little bit more.   
Again, you don't know what's going to happen this afternoon.   I think they wanted the course harder and faster, but that's what they're going it to get.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   I don't think I've really peaked anytime during the season.   It's not very far off, but when you get to play courses that are pretty demanding, you know, anything can happen, just as is proven today, really.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, it is cool, especially on big tournaments like this, when you see big names up against you.   
Being paired with two very good players, as well.   Yeah, it feels good to play good on a big stage like this, yeah, it does.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the conditions changing after the weather.   How surprised are you that the scores are low?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   It is soft, but most of the greens are slow from back to front, to so it's difficult to have ultimate control of your ball on to the green spin‑wise.   
And then you can't really be aggressive on the greens, because they are not the fastest, but they are fast enough to get you in trouble at times.   I would be surprised if someone goes crazy today really.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   5, it's a demanding tee shot for starters, you know it's going to be a long hole.   And the green is a bit funky.   You don't really have any sort of control, even if you play a second shot from 220 yards out or you hack it out and you have 80 yards left.   It's a difficult shot to get close, and the green is also challenging.   It's pretty difficult.  
   
 Q.   How important was it for you to get your round done today?   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Well, I'm relieved, of course.   I didn't want to hang around for a long time.   But then we know that we are probably going to finish the second round Saturday morning.   In or out, whatever side of the draw you're on, you're going to have to deal with some issues.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT