AMUNDI OPEN DE FRANCE
October 17, 2019
Nicolas Colsaerts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  6 to start, how good is that around this layout?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Yeah, always feels pretty good when you can shoot under par on this track. I think it's maybe a little bit easier than when we come in June.   
You know, the ball doesn't really get out of your hands as quickly as when the course is drier, so I think if you play well, it's kind of manageable, but conditions this morning were not easy. It was blowing a little bit. There wasn't a lot of light. The ball wasn't really flying that far. It's slightly better now, but like I said, I always take a score under par on this course.   
 Q.  Seeing what happened here at The Ryder Cup, and you have your own great Ryder Cup history from Medinah, and where you are on The Race to Dubai, it's not where we're used to seeing you, but what do you feel is starting to maybe click for you now?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: I think I just needed a reboot. I felt like I was playing good enough throughout the year, but I would always throw a pretty bad nine-hole here and there that would make me go backwards.   
So every time I got myself in position, I went back words, which leaves a bit of a sour taste. I felt like I've been playing good enough. 80 per cent of the time, my game is pretty much on point. I just have to make the week last as long as possible.   
 Q.  We were talking earlier about the change in life, being married, having a child. How easy is it to balance? People assume golf is just golf, but how easy is it to balance around the golf you play?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Well, it's not easy. When you change -- when you travel and live life a certain way for probably, for almost 20 years out here, and all of a sudden you have somebody else to look after and a little kid comes along; but I've played the last 11 weeks, or played the last ten weeks out of 11 because of the situation I'm in, I've seen better days and I've been happier. So I want to play well and get this over with and see you next year.   
 Q.  Those early days were fun, though, weren't they?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Yeah, they used to be. I'm not sure I would have the stamina to do them all over again, but yeah, we did have a lot of fun.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT