BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2013
Nicolas Colsaerts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   2‑under par for 36 holes, how would you assess your play so far? 
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   I thought I played pretty good actually.   The conditions are pretty tricky.   It blows quite a lot.   It's pretty cold.   There's a couple of very difficult holes out there.   It's a tough to hold the green.   So if you can get your round started and sort of hold on, make a birdie here and there; but it's still a struggle.

Q.   How much do the course in these conditions examine different parts of the game?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Pretty much everything, really.   Yeah, you need to keep it in play.   You need very precise iron shots.   You know, with these new greens, there's shelves here and there, so if you want to hit it close, you have to be pretty precise. 
And obviously wind reading.   As we all know Wentworth is a pretty difficult place to read the wind, and when it blows this hard, it gets even more difficult.

Q.   We often talk about players going from Europe over to America and having to adjust to the different conditions, and you're doing it the other way around; you're playing mainly in America this year, and back over here; any adjustments to be made? 
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, probably hit it a little harder on the greens.   They are obviously a bit slower than what we are used to.   But no, it's just such a good feeling to be home.   This is the stuff that we are used to playing on week‑in and week‑out, so adjustments sort of come very naturally. 

Q.   Your thoughts on your position after two rounds here? 
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Well, it's good to make the cut for once.   I missed the cut the last couple years I played.   It seems like I can play really good on this course but never really get away with it.   So I'm glad I grinded out in pretty difficult conditions.

Q.   Well, what's made the difference? 
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   I guess just coping with the weather really.   When you go out in such conditions, you try to minimise the bad shots and play to plot your way around maybe a little steadier than you would maybe fire at pins and take advantage of some tee shots.   In these conditions, you just try to keep it in play and not make anything stupid really.

Q.   One of those things where you're forced to actually have some even better self‑discipline than usual? 
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, you do, because the conditions are pretty hard.   Since the changes, it's a much more difficult golf course than it used to be, and in these conditions, it's actually a pretty good test. 

Q.   Not only making the cut but putting yourself in a fine position into the weekend. 
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Well, yeah, we knew that with this weather, nobody was really going to go crazy, and it's pretty stacked up.   So I thought if I could go‑‑ well, basically the same way I did yesterday.   I thought I played all right.   I didn't really manage to hole every chance I gave myself, but anywhere near there was good enough for me today really.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT