WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 21, 2013
Nicolas Colsaerts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   The result suggests that that was a straightforward match.   Was it?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Well, I built up a pretty good lead yesterday.   I just made sure that I kept that lead with a six‑foot putt on 9 my first shot of the day.   Bill didn't really play his best.   We've seen that.   But I was just making sure that I was putting myself in position and maybe put a little bit of pressure on Bill.   That seemed to have done the trick.

Q.   Obviously you're the reining Volvo World Match Play champion.   What is it about match play?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   I think it's just a one‑hole‑at‑a‑time thing.   You play for position, you sometimes look at what your opponent does.   I might take advantage of some tee shots, take it around corners, and if I'm on a roll, I'm obviously going to be short irons in, and if I play well, I'm always going to be inside a guy that's most likely going to hit a couple more irons than me to greens.
I don't know, I like the fact that you're just trying to hole every shot pretty much.   It's pretty cool.

Q.   You've taken up your license to play on the PGA TOUR this year.   How are you finding it so far? 
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   I'm half and half.   I haven't really played my best.   I feel like I've played pretty good the last two weeks, but a couple of bad decisions here and there sort of changed a week that could have been really good to not playing on the weekend.   I came here knowing that I was playing all right, and I just hope this week is going to kick off my season. 

Q.   If you have to start anywhere, is a six‑foot putt the best, or would you rather have been starting off the tee optimally? 
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   No, I mean, I had that putt to stay 3‑up, and it was a lead that I worked a bit to get yesterday, and obviously you want to keep those three holes' advantage going on the back nine.   That can make the back nine a lot shorter than it is on the card.
Yeah, you obviously want to start off the tee box and that's probably a bit easier.   But then I was in a pretty good position even though I had missed that putt, I was going to be 2‑up, which was a pretty good position to be in.

Q.   How did the course play?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   A lot softer.   I mean, there was a bit of water everywhere, and there was one or two shots where I should have‑‑ there was one shot I should have taken casual water and didn't find out‑‑ it was more wet than I thought. 
If it stays this wet, it's probably a little bit easier to hit the ball close to the flags because these shelves on greens sometimes are a lot more difficult to get to when it's firm.   Now you're going to see shots stopping on greens, which probably makes these greens a little bit easier.

Q.   Do you like this course?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, it's pretty good.   The only thing you've got to be careful of is the altitude, just working your yardages and everything.   When it gets warmer, all of a sudden it goes a lot farther than this morning.   I didn't really think it was going that far this morning considering how much water was on the grass and everything.   It takes a bit of adjustment.   You might get lucky some shots, and some shots you don't.

Q.   Tough to get in any kind of a rhythm this week?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, well, like I said, I built up a pretty good lead yesterday, so you just deal with that maybe a bit easier than if you're down.   But yeah, I mean, you just hang around in that locker room.   Have you seen the locker rooms?   They're not a very bad place to hang around. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT