BELGIAN KNOCKOUT
May 20, 2018
Nicolas Colsaerts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Well, it turned out to be a decent match.  I had to fight again like I did in my second game.  I was behind after a couple of holes and then every -- I felt like I had a couple of chances for two-shot swings.  Didn't happen.  Left one short on the second to last hole, which was a bit disappointing.   
But I fought till the last hole, so I don't really have a lot of regrets.   
 Q.  How hard is it getting behind and having to chase in this short format?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: It is hard because you quickly run out of holes, but always have the possibility of making a move if the other one makes a mistake.  But yeah, you quickly run out of holes and know that you have to play well, basically for the full length of the nine holes to have a chance.   
 Q.  You holed a great putt on 7.  What were you thinking then?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Well, I had a chance on 6 to have a two-shot swing and then the one on 7 is basically I have to make it because James drives the green.  It became almost a little bit like match-play situation, knowing that you still have to play the holes.   
 Q.  And the last, were you thinking you still had a chance?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Yeah, he hits in the bunker in two.  I know that he's going to have to get it up-and-down to seal the deal, but if he doesn't, I can make three and go extra holes.  My goal on the last was to make three.  It went a little far, but I'm quite happy to give the people out here something to smile about.   
 Q.  And the crowds on the last?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: It was cool.  I'm disappointed for them because I think that I could have gone, you know, probably all the way in this, so a bit disappointing to be in this first series this morning.   
 Q.  Describe the week and the tournament as a whole?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: It's been great.  I mean, from people that have came and watched to the Pieters family for organising.  All I heard, not only from my part but from people, everything was perfectly run.  I was a bit curious to see what it was going to be like, but I think for a first try, I'll give them nine out of ten.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT