VOLVO GOLF CHAMPIONS
January 11, 2013
Nicolas Colsaerts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Well, early in the year, playing with Ernie my first time yesterday, conditions were pretty tough.   It was obviously a lot easier than yesterday, today, even though playing the course the other way around, starting on 10.   But I got a pretty good rhythm.   Gave myself a lot of birdie chances, made a few, didn't make any mistakes.   It was just a nice stroll really.   Nothing really to write about.   
   
 Q.   I've got to ask about the third, because Ernie was talking very much about that yesterday for you, bombing it somewhere where he had seen it before?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   I mean, it's not a wind that they play this course a lot in, so you obviously don't see a lot of balls there.   I did get a hold of it, though (laughs).   It just makes a pretty good story I guess.   I imagine some of the people from the club are going to talk how far I hit it down the 3rd.   
I had to take another go at it today, but it wasn't really, the wind wasn't helping that much, and still ‑‑  
   
 Q.   So it didn't travel quite as far today?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Didn't travel quite as far, but I still gave myself quite a nice wedge in the green, so that's good.   
   
 Q.   Would it be nice to see a nice little plaque down there to say you hit it that far?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   I would love to.   Peoples that have plates on golf courses around the world; I think about 17 at Lytham and stuff like that, it's pretty cool.  
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts on your position on the board halfway?   Always a nice play to start the year, with no cut in a tournament.   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, it is much more comfortable to play four rounds knowing that you have four full goes at it.     
That was the main goal yesterday on the last couple holes was not try and shoot myself out of it, try to limitate the damage, and that's exactly what I've done, knowing that I've been practicing quite hard the last couple of weeks, so every round now is a good chance to make a good round.   
   
 Q.   And we don't know what the leaders will finish on but you're nicely in the mix, aren't you?   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, so is everybody, I notice a bunch of us at 3 and 4, so if you play well on this course, you can shoot pretty low.   I felt myself, that I left a few out today, and you can certainly have a couple of good rounds.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT