FRYS.COM OPEN
October 12, 2012
Nicolas Colsaerts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. The conditions a little bit better than what you played in yesterday.   More to your liking?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, well, it's funny how it goes.   I played really well yesterday in probably tough conditions, and today I didn't really find my groove that I did yesterday.   
But kind of glad I got in with a decent score and moving on.  
   
 Q.   Obviously you're playing awfully well.   Your putting is good.   You've been working with Dave Stockton.   Is that the one thing you can really put your finger on as where your game has improved?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, it's one of the things that made me a lot more confident going out.   Yeah, it's a total package really.   You add little piece to the puzzle on every sort of aspect of your game and you feel a lot more confident and playing better.  
   
 Q.   What is the plan now?   Obviously you're very close to earning your full‑time playing privileges here on the PGA TOUR.   Next year you going to go full time on both tours?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   I don't know.   That's a difficult one.   It's not done yet.   Let's not get ahead of things.  
But, yeah, I mean, it's obviously a goal mine to come and compete here a little more than I did in the past.   This is all new for me, but every bit of taste that I get when I come over here and play is wonderful.  
It would be stupid to think that I wouldn't like to play over here.  
   
 Q.   How much fun are you having playing in the States?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   It's a lot of fun.   The courses suit me maybe a little better than the ones we play week in and week out in Europe.  
The conditions of the courses are just unbelievable to what we're used to.   So, yeah, it's a kid's dream to play on courses as immaculate as these.  
   
 Q.   This weekend could be a big one.   You could win your first win on the PGA TOUR?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, my goal was to make sure that I get the most out of this week so I have the freedom to do whatever I want next year.   We're looking good right now, but there is still two rounds to go and a lot guys can still move up the leaderboard.  
Yeah, not done yet.   
   
 Q.   Great playing.   You started out with a nice run of birdies early in the round then hit a couple bogeys.   Is there a sense you sort of have to stabilize things at that point?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   I know I'm playing well.   I just got to make sure that when I have little hiccups I stay patient.   I keep telling myself that I'm going to give myself a lot chances, so there is not reason to get excited.   Just keep doing what I been doing the last couple months.  
   
 Q.   Is it too early in this tournament to start watching how the other guys are doing this afternoon, the guys at the top with you?   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Oh, yeah, of course.   I mean, this course offers a lot of birdie chances I think.   It's not super long, so it brings a lot of guys into the mix.   Like some of us has proven yesterday, if you get on a hot streak you can go low.  
It's a little early to look at what's going to happen.   
   
 Q.   So you're not watching Nick O'Hern hole by hole by hole by hole?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Oh, no, no, no.   Not only Nick O'Hern, there are a lot of other guys that can do great things out here.   
   
 Q.   Sure.   Okay.   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT