BELGIAN KNOCKOUT
May 19, 2018
Nicolas Colsaerts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  People out there are absolutely loving it?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: So am I.  It was great.  I played a little bit better than the second game, and then I kind of like sealed the deal with an eagle on 16.  Hit an unbelievable 3-wood to only just a couple of feet, which was exactly what I wanted so I could cruise on the last couple holes.   
 Q.  What's it like having the crowd just urging you on, left, right and center?  It just gives you so much confidence, surely.  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Yeah, it's pretty cool actually.  I was curious to see how I was going to react to play in front of home crowds, but it certainly gives you a bit of a lift.  I was kind of like, I'm not here to disappoint almost.   
 Q.  You're in for tomorrow, the last three rounds, up for grabs.  Imagine how nuts that crowd is going to get if you lift the trophy on the final day?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Yeah, there's still a lot of golf to be played.  It's not an easy format, which is actually good practice for me.  You kind of have to keep the foot down wherever you are.  It's all never too far from anybody unless you're really far out, but if you're one or two shots with a couple of holes, it's almost not done.  It's actually quite an exciting format.   
 Q.  How much does tactics change around this golf course?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: I think it will only change in tactics if you're really way ahead, like I was with the last with only two holes to go.  But if you're pretty tight, I don't think it really change much.  Match play, yes, but in this format, in medal play, you still have to play the holes kind of like correctly.   
 Q.  You must be knackered, 27 holes?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: I am a little bit.  Everybody will tell you that's because my three-month-old son woke up a few hours last night, but I don't wake up for it, she does, so I'm good (laughing).   
 Q.  How much are you enjoying that journey?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: I'm enjoying this a lot.  It's pretty cool when you play well in front of home crowds like this.  A lot of people have turned up.  You can feel the good vibe and when you pull it off, it's actually quite a cool feeling.   
 Q.  Is it a reinvigorated Nicolas Colsaerts?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: No, I'm really having fun.  I guess you can see on people's faces, everybody smiling, everybody's having a good time.  There was a couple of waves on 16 and 18 when I walked on to the green.  Okay, my match was probably done when I got to 18, but it's still great to see the people having a good time.   
 Q.  The shot on 7, talk us through that?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Yeah, I have to smoke a 3-wood to get there, but most of the guys will hit driver.   It's almost a driver for me, too, but if I hit the perfect draw, it can just get on the to green.   
Lucky enough today, the flag's short, so I figured, you know, anywhere just short of the green would work and it came out perfect.  Just curled the fairway, bounced a few times, and it's actually pretty cool to walk more than 300 yards with the putter in your hand.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT