JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 26, 2012
Nicolas Colsaerts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like sleeping for a week now?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, I do a little bit.   It's just been exhausting, just the last two months.   You know, it's just every week, I felt like I was just one round away of getting an automatic spot, just as much as over here, I didn't think I was very lucky.  
You know, if I had a couple of good breaks a round, I think I would have been in the last couple of groups and playing for the title.  
   
 Q.   More exhausting I would have thought, given that you were the only guy in the spotlight this week; so everything about this week's been about you.   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, it was difficult to play the tournament just like any other one.   You know, there was always somebody to bring The Ryder Cup subject up, and just as much as the last couple of weeks.   It was very difficult just to go about your thing and get the most out of your round, yeah.  
   
 Q.   What are your emotions now, knowing that you need a wild card pick?   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Well, I mean, you pretty much know on the back of your mind that you're going to need some help, somehow, regardless if it's a good round or two or a wild card pick.   
Like I said so many times, I think that I've done everything could I to put myself in this position, and unfortunately I have just come up just short.   But then nobody really made quite a statement as I made in the last couple of weeks by traveling that much, and getting myself over here the last minute and showing that I still had game, even though I wasn't really fresh mentally or physically.  
   
 Q.   Have you heard anything from the captain at all this week?   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Not at all, no.   I think he was pretty much the same with everyone just as me, Rafa, or all of the other contenders.   I don't think it's a good idea to get too friendly with some of the picks that you might are going to have to send home.  
   
 Q.   Who do you see it as being between for those two spots?   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   I see Poulter and myself.   
   
 Q.   Given that you've made an effort to try to get on the team, how would you feel if you were passed over for somebody else tomorrow?   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   I would be very disappointed, because I gave my heart out and I just don't really see a bad ending of this story.   I've been playing so well for the last year and a half, almost two years.   So regardless of where I came back from, you know, scooter accident, didn't play some of the big tournaments last year‑‑ whatever happens, it's been a pretty emotional ride.   
   
 Q.   Some people will think you're staying here because you know something?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   I have no idea.   Absolutely no idea.   Just as much as you lot, other players that might get a wild card.   No, the last time I spoke to Ollie was Scottish Open.   That's how far back it goes.   
   
 Q.   Given you said it's been an exhausting few months, if you get a pick tomorrow, how will you spend the next couple of weeks?   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   That will be pretty easy.   A bit of physical work and just do exactly what I've been doing for the last year and a half.   Seems to be working pretty good.   Like I said, I've played probably eight of the last nine weeks, so anybody that gets that sort of series of tournaments in is going to be quite exhausted.  
   
 Q.   And you're happy that you can recover in time?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Oh, without a doubt, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Will you play again between now and The Ryder Cup?   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   That will just depend on the decision.   I've committed to play Holland and Italy, but I just‑‑ you know, like I have no idea.   It will just depend on the decision.   But I will definitely play at least one, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Do you envisage a sleepless night to night?   Or are you too knackered to sleep?   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Well, it's going to be difficult to sleep‑‑ fine, I've got, what, 14 hours to bite my fingers.   
   
 Q.   Have you caught any fish so far?   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   No, but I'd like to catch some tomorrow morning.   I have to find something to do and think about something else.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT