JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 24, 2012
Nicolas Colsaerts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Three birdies and two bogeys, how do you feel about a 70 today?   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   I feel pretty good, because it wasn't a very convincing round until a couple of holes to go.   I didn't feel as loose as I did yesterday.   I didn't think‑‑ I got a couple of bad breaks early on and it was just on and off.   But I finished in very good fashion.   
   
 Q.   Do you cite fatigue, four weeks in a row, going to America and back again?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Well, you can feel the freshness is not totally there.   I guess a day like today, you can, yeah, put it on a bit of tiredness.   But I was just trying‑‑ when you don't really have a good round going, I was just trying to get my way around, and I knew the last couple of holes were good birdie opportunities for me.   So I was kind of ready to capitalise on those.   
   
 Q.   The focus is full of controversy to some extent, a comment on the wild card picks?   Are you keeping an aye on that as well?   You said you were watching TV?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, I'm keeping a pretty distant aye.   To be honest with you, like I said the other day, I felt like I have done already‑‑ to show my commitment to being part of such a great experience.   I didn't shoot myself out of this by finishing in quite a good fashion today, so I think that was the most important thing for me.  
   
 Q.   How do you approach the weekend?   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Well, I mean, the same way I did yesterday.   I know I'm going to need two good rounds.   It's quite crowded but I'm been playing well for quite some time now, so there's no reason why I can't put two good rounds together.   
   
 Q.   The sort of day to tough it out really?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, it was kind of a grind.   I didn't play particularly well the first 12, 13 holes.   I didn't think I got good breaks early on, kept my round pretty average but I finished in quite a good fashion to get myself a few shots in and not shoot myself out of it.   
   
 Q.   Three birdies in the last five holes were very, very timely, weren't they?   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, they were very important.   But 14 is a hole that I can drive the green on.   16 is a par 5 I can get to, as well as 18.   So these were my birdie chances, and obviously slipped in an extra one on 15 but missed a birdie on 16.   So I was looking at getting a few shots back, which I did.   
   
 Q.   If you were offered this position halfway at the start of the week, would you have taken it?   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, you always take a position like this, a couple of shots back, two rounds to go with a lot at stake.   
But yeah, I would have probably taken the position I'm in.   
   
 Q.   Was it enjoyable?   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   No, it wasn't.   So that's why I'm going to leave you in about a minute.   (Laughter).  
   
 Q.   Crowd support has been good‑‑ encouragement for the bigger picture?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, I guess they are pretty low key here.   You can feel like you've got people that know your playing this tournament and what's at stake.  
   
 Q.   What did you do with your time off yesterday?   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   I slept for a couple hours.   I was trying to re‑energize as much as I can.   Fortunately enough, it's a very cool place I'm staying at this week, so there's a lot of very good vibes and I hope that they are just going to keep going alongside me for the next couple days.   
   
 Q.   Did you see any of the U.S. golf?   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, I watched a bit, but Harrington already finished but I know what he shot.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT