BELGIAN KNOCKOUT
May 19, 2018
Nicolas Colsaerts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: I didn't play my best the first five holes.  Kept on missing second shots into greens and recovered extremely well every single time.  I mean, it was kind of like holding by the fingernails, and I kind of have to feel bad for Lorenzo because he did everything well, and I did stay in the game till the end.  Made a couple at the end that made a huge difference.   
 Q.  17, nice turning point there.  Did that have the feeling of like Medinah the roar that was around that green, the home fans going absolutely nuts for you?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Well, yeah, it was pretty loud, and being in the trees like this on a very tight golf course makes the roars a lot louder, yeah.  17 green was pretty loud and we had to wait a minute or two on 18 tee box for all the people to come in.   
Yeah, it's great to see this atmosphere.   
 Q.  Coming up 18, as well, did you think, right, this is playoff time, we're going to extra holes, or did you think, he's left himself with a tricky one?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: The dynamic, I was trying to hit it close and trying to have a look at 3, but I left it a bit long.  I hit a good putt.  Just a bit too far from the pin really.   
Like I say, got to feel sorry for Lorenzo.  He did everything well and he leaves himself probably the worst putt he can do on that last green and it slips by and I'm the lucky one.   
I didn't really play my best the first five holes.  I kept missing second shots into greens in a silly way.  I recovered quite well, which actually allowed me to stay into this match, and actually found some dynamic at the end that made the difference.   
 Q.  Talk us through the birdies on 7 and 8 and how crucial they were?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: The one on 7 is the big one, really.  I know that if I don't make 3 there, with him being just short of the green, it's going to be a whole different story.  But I holed a good 20-footer there on 7 and then hit it close on 8 and probably the biggest roar that I've heard in, I don't know how many years, which is great.   
 Q.  How big is it, in the context of the tournament and yourself?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: It's pretty cool.  There was a few of us that made the cut, a few of us played this morning.  I'm the only one left.  It's funny that I'm the older one of the group and I'm the only one left in this.  But it's good to see how many people have showed up.  I don't think I've ever played in front of so many Belgians.   
 Q.  How is the adrenaline?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: It gets your attention.  The last couple holes, in this game just now, you see the people lined up on both sides of the fairway on a tree-lined golf course, which makes it even cooler, is nice.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT