THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2012
Nicolas Colsaerts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Got off to a pretty bad start.   I kept hitting pretty bad shots.   And then took an 8 on 7.   Just missed the drive and put it in the bunker.   And the 8 really‑‑ it's funny, if I hit it down the fairway I'm looking at four or five at the worst.   And hit it in the bunker and just looking at 7 or 8.

Q.   Funny how a day can change everything? 
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   It's not that funny, really.   But, yeah, yeah, it is pretty surprising when you get out there and you just don't really, you know, execute the shots the same way you saw them a couple hours before.

Q.   Your thoughts on your game this weekend?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   I'm quite happy to be here, because I nearly took a 6 down the last.   So then you start over again and try to get under par.

Q.   How were the conditions different from yesterday?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   It was just more wind direction.   We had it down on the first couple of holes today.   And today it was into off the left.   So it was hitting clubs on to first, second and third that we weren't really used to.   So that changed quite a lot over the way you would be hitting shots onto the first couple of holes.

Q.   Are there positives you can take from today?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, very.   It's not like there is a lot I can take out of this one.   But there was a lot I could take out of yesterday.

Q.   Are you disappointed? 
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, a little.   I'm just mad at myself.   A few times I should have backed off and I didn't really see the shot as clearly as I should have and kept hitting the ball.   I mean, it's my fault.   Just as much as on 17 there were some people just walking behind the green and I should have backed off, but I didn't.   It was my fault. 

Q.   Was there a problem at 17?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   No, there was just a few people walking at the back.   I had plenty of time just to back off and just to regroup and didn't.   Yeah, it's just one of these things, after all these years, you should‑‑ you still should just back off.   I just didn't.   It's completely my fault, it's fine.

Q.   But it wasn't the difference in the conditions?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Well, yeah, it wasn't really the same golf course.   The wind direction was different.   So all of a sudden some of the holes that you had fairly easy shots into the greens seemed a little more complicated today, and I wasn't hitting the ball as good as I was yesterday.   You add those two together and you have a pretty difficult combo.

Q.   Were the pins tougher than they were yesterday? 
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   No, not really, I don't think so.   There was a few pins sitting on mounds which I didn't really see yesterday.   But it's‑‑ I don't think the pins were any tougher than they were yesterday.

Q.   How did you recover today? 
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Well, I kept hitting it in pretty high stuff.   So it's just one of these you take your medicine and you just do the best you can, really.   It's not like you've got control over the situation.   So you just try to hack it around the green somewhere and try to work for pars. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT