U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2012
Nicolas Colsaerts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Is the course getting any easier out there?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   I'm the wrong guy to ask.   I played well.   I felt it was easier than yesterday.   But it's getting firmer and some of the pins are three from sides and short on to the green, so it's pretty, still pretty tricky.  
   
 Q.   What did you do on 7 today?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   I hit an iron.   I just came off a bogey where I had a good chance to save par, and I felt that that pin on the top right was in too bit of a steep slope, so I didn't want to have a difficult shot around the green.   So I just hit an iron and just I felt par was going to be a good score on that hole.  
   
 Q.   That's been playing pretty easy, but it's a difficult pin placement.   Is it any bit of a relief to have a semi easy hole after the first six?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, of course.   It's a hole you can take advantage of if you hit a good shot, you're going to have a chance for a 2, but if you miss your first, you're going to struggle to save per or maybe save worse than a five.   
I think it needs to be treated the same way as the rest of the course.   
   
 Q.   Could you have gone lower than 1‑under today?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, I could have gone a lot lower, but you can't be asking too much.   I started wonderfully.   I could have been east low 3, 4‑under after six or seven holes.   
But you get what you get.   So you can't really ask for anything lower than that.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, very.   When you play like this on a course like this in an event like this you got to be pretty happy yourself.   
   
 Q.   How do you balance the need to climb the leaderboard as opposed to the tough course that could penalize you for trying to make that move?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   You just got to try to hit the most sensible shot all the time.   You just got to, even how good you see the shot, how you feel the shot, if you want to give your self a bit of a closer range putt, but 7 was just a perfect example, I could have gone for the green and tried to make 3.  
But I thought that the last, my last six, seven holes, which was going to be the toughest ones on that wrong side were going to keep my round in shape.   So I thought if I just parred my way on these it would still look pretty good.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT