VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
May 20, 2012
Nicolas Colsaerts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What does the win mean?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   It means everything.   I watched this tournament as a kid on BBC, all of these names, Ernie, Mark O'Meara, everybody.   It's a dream come true to add my name to a list of such players that are the history of the game.

Q.   And you have this brilliant blue trophy to show for it and you had to work hard to do it this week?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, long week, two days ago, I thought I was going to go home, and thanks to the format, I went through.   Yesterday, I played fantastic yesterday.   This morning against Paul was a very tough match, too.   I was 4‑down and didn't look like I was going to win. 
And this afternoon, conditions were so difficult that playing a guy like that, in such conditions, you know it's going to be a tough game and you know he's going to play well and so you've just got to make sure that you are in position, always there, sure that you can win. 
I started to‑‑ the wind, it was blowing so much.   Every shot was complicated.   Every putt was complicated because it was just moving all the time, down, downwind‑‑ you know, getting the ball close to the hole from anywhere really was going to be difficult. 

Q.   I take it you're proud of yourself the way you've held yourself together in these elements. 
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Very, I'm most proud that I was down in the matches pretty much and got a way with it ‑‑ it's tough to play match play when you're down, but you've just got to hit shots and make sure that you give yourself chances to win and play as hard as you can on the course.

Q.   The way you played, won't take too long to sink in but hard to believe that you were asleep before your playoff and then you could have been out of this tournament and going home. 
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, I could have been out after two games, simple, but the format just makes it like that.   I got a lot of momentum out of my two games yesterday and then started off very badly this morning with Paul.   So there's no rule with match play.   Just if you don't play good, you're going to be done. 

Q.   You won the Volvo China Open and another big tournament; do you just feel that good, an extra step in your stride? 
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Definitely, it's such a big tournament that you should be all fired up.   Match play, it's a different format.   But you know, the Volvo event at Fancourt is just an unbelievable place, too.   China since last year, it's always going to be a tournament that's close to my heart. 
Yeah, Volvo has been very, very, very kind to me in the last year and hey half.

Q.   You're the only Belgian player to win a Volvo twice on The European Tour -- 
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   A lot of people from Belgium‑‑ there's a lot of people that followed every single game and even a bunch that followed the game of the two South Africans.   I owe a lot to those people. 

Q.   Big event next week but celebration in the meantime? 
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Not too much, us Belgians, we can be pretty hard sore, so we are going to go pretty mellow and just going to try to enjoy this with everybody I'll spend some time with this week.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT