VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
May 20, 2012
Nicolas Colsaerts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Did you think you would be here?   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Not really, no, I wasn't thinking any situation, anything like this.   I thought I was going to go home.   It's just fantastic.   
   
 Q.   What does it mean to you?   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   It means everything.   Where do I start?   I felt that I had a pretty good shot at it last year in the same format, and I was a little disappointed not to get to the final.   
You know, two days ago I was in my room taking a nap thinking I was going to fly home.   It means so much to be here, it's fantastic.   
   
 Q.   Very tough matches this afternoon, give us some thoughts on your play?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   I played well in tough conditions.   Wind like this, you know it's going to be very difficult.   Graeme McDowell, he's won the U.S. Open, so he's used to playing in tough conditions.   
I knew that it was going to be a tough game in conditions like these.   
   
 Q.   Last year you got a third spot and this year you got the victory; seems that this tournament suits you well.   How happy are you?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   The format does.   I've always done well in match play.   I'm the kind of player that can make a lot of birdies and if I can avoid mistakes, I'm going always going to be quite tough, and the course suits me, and that's just the perfect recipe.   
   
 Q.   Another match‑play tournament to come, hope to get into The Ryder Cup Team?   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   There's a long way to go, so I don't want to make any plans or anything.   There's still a lot of guys that can make the team and there are still like ten or 12 tournaments before the team is done.   
There's a long way to go.   
   
 Q.   How deep did you have to dig to win that one?   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   The week has been very long.   I had a tough day yesterday.   This morning's game wasn't easy, either.   The conditions this afternoon were brutal so really have to fire and grind and stay in the position you were in.   
   
 Q.   The trophy has the name of anyone who has anyone in golf, some of the best names we've seen play.   What does it mean to add your name to those names?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   I can't feel anything right now.   To have my name next to Major winners and all of these, and having played well here last year‑‑ it's a dream come true.   
   
 Q.   You've played over a hundred holes in the last four days.   Tougher mentally or physically?   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Mentally.   We do get a few rides on the golf course in carts, thank God.   Yeah, mentally; match play is such a tiring game, you're under pressure all the time.   Those two games today really, really killed me mentally.   
   
 Q.   Graeme is such a great competitor; never goes away, does he?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, when you play Graeme in such conditions, you know it's going to be a tough game, because being Irish, playing a lot of links golf, he won the U.S. Open, so you know he's used to playing in tough conditions.   So it was my job to hang tight.   
   
 Q.   Your highest position in the World Rankings now, you're in all of the majors and World Golf Championships, this is life‑changing, isn't it?   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, I think I'm due.   I've been playing well for quite a long time now and it's all been my goal to be up in the rankings.   
   
 Q.   This will give you a huge boost in The Ryder Cup standings; how big of a goal is it to make that team?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   It's always been a dream of mine as a kid to play in The Ryder Cup.   But there's still a long way to go.   We still have, I don't know, ten tournaments, so there's a lot of candidates.   I know I'm well placed, much better after this week.   But still a long way to go.  
I came here to play match play, which is a format that's always been pretty comfortable for me.   I felt like should it get to the final last year, I mean, I got a way with the format here where I can go through the group stage by losing a game.   I recovered pretty quick after that.   
Yeah, Volvo has been very good to me in the last year and a half.   
   
 Q.   How will you be celebrating later on?   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   I don't know if the adrenaline is going to go down but it certainly kept going up.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT