BELGIAN KNOCKOUT
May 18, 2018
Nicolas Colsaerts
Joost Luiten
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A roller coaster of emotions out there today?  
JOOST LUITEN: Yeah, it was.  I had a good start, got back into it but then I made a silly double-bogey with a double-touch on 9, so you give it back there and try to fight back.  Nice birdie on 12 and you give it straight back on 13.  Nice to finish with a birdie on 16 and holed the chip for an eagle on 17, and that's exactly what I needed.   
It was very much an up-and-down day.   
 Q.  The journey was a little bit easier for you into the weekend.  What's it like to be back playing in Belgium?  Incredibly 18 years ago was the last time.  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Yeah, it's amazing.  You can see the amount of people that turned up yesterday and today.  I see faces in the crowd that I haven't seen in 15 years, friends, people that I have played against in junior competitions and members from here, members of the Federation.   
It's great to see the enthusiasm of everyone in Belgium for this event.   
 Q.  And of course, it's a very different event now, which starts from scratch again tomorrow.  There will be a playoff we think later on.  How do you approach now that it's not sort of two rounds where you're trying to qualify; it's man on man?  
JOOST LUITEN: Yeah, it's man-to-man.  You don't need to worry about the rest now and you just need to worry about your opponent that you get.  It's nine holes, so you've got to be on top of the ball from the beginning, try to put pressure on him.  I think it will be a lot of fun and I think it will be a lot of fun for the spectators to watch it, as well.   
 Q.  The Belgian players have played well so far this week.  The crowds should be enormous?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS: Yeah, mission accomplished.  The three of us have made it.  I think there's one more guy, two, looking to make it, so four of us on the weekend.  Let's hope that we get a good draw and none of us actually play against one another so we can maximize the chances to go far into this.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT