VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
May 19, 2012
Nicolas Colsaerts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You had four birdies in the first six holes.   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, I went off on a flyer, I was just holing birdies after another, and got quickly 4‑up and then made one or two mistakes that got Brandt to come back.   All of a sudden it started to get a little more tense but then Brandt made one or two mistakes where I just went in and wasn't going to give anything away then.   
   
 Q.   Tomorrow you'll be playing against another player who has been playing very strong the last two days, how do you feel about playing against Paul Lawrie?   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, he's a fierce competitor.   I played with him in the last round in Qatar last year.   He's not going to give you anything, so it's your job to play well and go get it yourself.   
   
 Q.   Going to practise or rest now?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   A bit of rest, 36 holes on a course like this is no snack.   So just going to go and practise for a little bit, 20 or 30 minutes or so.   
   
 Q.   Very satisfied man after these two wins today?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, very, both times today I went off on a flyer and left the other guy in an uncomfortable situation.   
I made one or two mistakes at the end of the front nine this afternoon which let Brandt come back from 3‑down, 2‑down, and then got to 10 all‑square and a couple holes earlier‑‑ could have been 5‑up.   It was a weird game then, and then Brandt made a mistake on 13 and then I made birdie on 14 which got me back to 3‑up.   
So it was a bit of an up‑and‑down day, but credit to Brandt.   
   
 Q.   Were you getting a little bit edgy or a little bit complacent?   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, you know, it's never done.   You always expect the other guy to play good and hole putts and make the odd chip or two.  
   
 Q.   We touched on this earlier but what's made the difference?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Well, I mean, I come this morning in a different state of mind.   Playing Retief in the morning‑‑ thought I was going to go home and you get another shot the next morning, and even though I thought it was going to be a very difficult match, I was very loose and very free.   I knew what I needed to do, but I was feeling much more relaxed.  
   
 Q.   Going to stay relaxed again in the semifinals?   A tough competitor in Paul Lawrie you have to face.   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, I know, he's a pretty tough competitor like you said, but I mean, when you get to the stage like this, you everybody expect to be tough.   It's your job to play well, produce and get the job done.  
   
 Q.   Last year at this Volvo event‑‑  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Well, at least I got to the semis again.   It's fantastic to play well in these events.   There's a lot of positives.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT