VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
May 18, 2012
Nicolas Colsaerts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Match‑play situation on 9 with Charl, you had a longer putt there and knocked it in and he missed.   What does it feel like to get through?   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Unexpected a little bit.   I thought Charl was going to go through with Retief.   Yeah, I knocked mine in, something to keep the thing alive and looked like it just jumped a bit.   
   
 Q.   A little birdie told me before you went into that playoff, that you were asleep half an hour ago.   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   45 minutes ago, I was fast asleep in my bed, hit a few balls on the range, but yeah, the legends goes on, I didn't hit any balls in China, I didn't see the range all week.   Looks like I can warm up pretty fast.  
   
 Q.   You've got such good history around here, losing in the semis, are you going to go one better or a couple this time?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   There's still a long way to go.   Like 20 minutes ago, I thought I was going to go home and still got a shot at it.   I was a little disappointed about last year, so try not to let another chance go.   If I can get it around the greens and make some putts, I like my chances on this golf course.   
   
 Q.   This morning it was a tight match, you were 1‑down to Retief Goosen; how happy are you, just come back from the round, playoff and now match play for the weekend?   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Disappointed about this morning's match against Retief.   You know, I woke up too late in the game and gave him too much advantage.   I was just running out of holes; simple.   
A bit unexpected to go into a playoff, because I thought the two South Africans were going to go through obviously, and so yeah, a bit unexpected to get into the playoff.   I just hit it up, I make it, and Charl, he misses it.   That's the playoff.   
   
 Q.   So you have a very good record last year in the tournament, and the course suits you, and also the tournament, the format; are you happy going out tomorrow?   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, very, because I thought I wasn't going to get a chance to.   So you know, it's almost like I've become a dark horse again.   
   
 Q.   Tomorrow you'll be playing Justin Rose who has had two fantastic matches.   Any thoughts on him?   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   No, I mean, he's been playing really good this year.   So have I.   So it looks like he's been playing well on this course, too, but like everybody says, it's match play, so you never really know what happens.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT