COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
February 4, 2012
Nicolas Colsaerts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How do you reflect on two rounds over three long days?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Pretty good.   You know, it's always difficult to come back after a day's rest after you played well the first round.
But yeah, I thought I did pretty good again, even though I made that little hiccup on 17.   It's not that tough of a hole, but it is a little bit with that cross wind, so kind of glad that I made four on the last out of that bunker.

Q.   You mentioned the wind.   It's worth stressing that they're still closing it's still causing a problem out there, even if it's not the strength it was yesterday?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   No, no.   It's still there.   It's cross wind pretty much all day out there, so you really gotta focus on what you want the ball to do, but I still thought it was not the easiest of days really.

Q.   And your score, pleased with that at the moment?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Very.   Except maybe that bogey on 17 which wasn't really quite necessary, but good 4 on the last one.

Q.   Changes the dynamic a bit when we know this is a 54‑hole tournament.   At least you were aware of that going into your second round. 
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, a little, but you're so busy out on the course with this wind that you don't really have a chance to think about it.

Q.   And certainly you find yourself in this positive position once again, which I know you've used the word maturity a few times, but it's great to get that kind of experience and keep going, isn't it?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   It's good to be in control all day like I was today.   Usually I get a little bump in the road, but today was very relaxed.   So yeah, that's key.   If you can just show up at the golf course and knowing how good of control you're going to be, that makes quite a bit of difference.

Q.   The more you have stress, you're focusing very much what's going on there.   Do your thoughts stray to events coming up and the possibility of world rankings?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   It's difficult not to, but I don't want to think too much in advance.   It's obviously a goal that we set early during the year, early for the year.   But there's still one round to go, and there's another tournament next week.   So we're on the journey.

Q.   You certainly are.   Where were you ranked in the world rankings last year at the start of the season?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   I have no idea.   That's your job, man.   (Laughs).

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Probably 80, 90, 100, somewhere in there.   No, no, more than that.   I was over 100 easy.   Because then I won China, so yeah, I'd have to be 120, somewhere in there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT