VOLVO GOLF CHAMPIONS
January 21, 2012
Nicolas Colsaerts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MIKE GREEN:   4‑under par 69 today.   Finishing with an eagle, you must have felt like a yo‑yo string the past couple of days, great first round, tough second round and really getting back into contention today.  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, really glad that I put another good round today, after yesterday's round, it was a little difficult.   It's always difficult when you play that good on a course like this and nothing goes according to plan.   
Yeah, I didn't really get off to the best of starts today.   I hit a few errant drives and they were still on the grass in the shorter stuff.   So I think I got a little lucky maybe the first four or five holes, six first holes, where I found myself 1‑under where I could have been easily 2‑ or 3‑over.   
MIKE GREEN:   Talk about the eagle on 18.  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Well, I hit an enormous drive, I don't even know how far it went, but I hit 8‑iron on to the green.   And, well, it's too bad I missed the putt on 17 because I hit a very good shot on 17.   Obviously it's very tough, but it's nice to make the putt after you hit an enormous drive like that.  
MIKE GREEN:   You must be pleased 1‑under through six.  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   They are pretty difficult.   Where the pin was today on the second is a pretty tough pin to get to, and third, we never really thought that you could hit such a long iron into the green for the second shot.   And then the third, fourth, you've got to hit your best shot, and even myself, I have to hit something like a 3‑iron or a 2‑iron.   
So there are a bunch of difficult holes, even the par5, and then the par 4 right after, the short one into the wind, it's quite a narrow target on the green.   I thought the first five or six holes were the toughest of the bunch today.   
   
 Q.   How long was the 8‑iron?   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, I think I had 170 metres to the front, 190 metres to the flag.   So that's 220, 210 to the flag, but it's pounding down, the wind.   So I figured it was pretty much a 25‑metre wind, something like that.  
   
 Q.   How disappointed were you yesterday?   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   On a course like this, if you don't keep it in play, you are obviously going to struggle.   So it was just a couple of shots early on, really.   I flew a 9‑iron over the back in the long stuff on third and then made bogey on the fourth, didn't get up‑and‑down on the fifth.   
So I really felt like I was‑‑ I lost four shots in four holes; a bit of a blow, really.   I still felt quite good towards the end, the last couple of holes, and that's what it's all about, when you have a very bad day, you know, you can easily shoot 80 on this golf course.   
So overall, yesterday was actually as good as I deserved.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, I was told.   I'd rather not think about that.   
   
 Q.   Very much in contention‑‑ will you still keep bombing drives down the fairway or will you hold back at all?   
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   We'll see how the wind will be tomorrow.   Obviously, you know, the wind on the last couple of holes here suited my long‑driving skills.   
But I think that if you find yourself in contention over the last couple of holes, you've got to go with your strength.   I didn't sort of back up the drive on 16 and 18, because I knew if I hit a good one, I'd probably get like half a shot on the field.   
I think it's quite an advantage to take if you have a chance to.   
   
 Q.   Have you done any long drive on any airport runways or anything like that?  
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   No, no, I'd rather stay on grass‑‑ no idea.   I know I can pitch it like 320 or 330 yards, or if you give me something longer.   I can probably hit it 360,370 with modified equipment.   I don't know about that, what we are even talking about.   
MIKE GREEN:   Thanks very much.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT