AMERICAN CENTURY CHAMPIONSHIP MEDIA CONFERENCE
July 2, 2007
Michael Eruzione
Mark Killen
Jon Miller
Jack Wagner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


  STEVE GRIFFITH:  Thanks everyone, for joining us.  We've got several people on the call, so I'm going to move quickly to introduce.  It's a special gathering today in advance of the American Century Championship in Lake Tahoe as the tournament announces its response to the community needs in the wake of the wildfires. 
 We also need to make apologize for Rick Rhoden who was named today -- yesterday was an alternate and had to go out to Wisconsin to start practice rounds for the U.S. Senior Open where he qualified as an alternate based on some other qualifiers not being able to make it.  He was the first alternate in his region, and he played in the Commerce Long Island Classic this past weekend as you may know. 
 On the call with us, principles in alphabetical order, Michael Eruzione, captain the 1980 U.S. Olympic hockey team and one of only six who have played in every American Century Championship; Mark Killen, senior VP corporate American Century investment; Nancy McGagin, for Raley's Supermarkets; Jon Miller, executive vice president of NBC Sports; Jack Wagner, Emmy-nominated television movie actor and the defending champion of the tournament. 
 Let me turn it over to Mark Killen.  Mark? 
 MARK KILLEN:  Thank you very much.  American Century Investments is now in our ninth year as title sponsor of the American Century Championship, and we feel a very deep sense of community with the Lake Tahoe area.  So when we heard about the fires that ravaged South Lake Tahoe, we worked with NBC to help make a difference to those individuals who lost so much in this tragedy.  Over the last several years, this tournament has provide fund-raising for several charitable organizations, and we announced a couple of weeks ago that this year's tournament will benefit the Lance Armstrong Foundation.  While that will still be the case, we thought it necessary to take some of the funds raised from this year's tournament and direct it towards the victims of the fire. 
 So on behalf of the American Century Championship, I'm pleased to announce that $25,000 donation to a special Raley's Supermarket fund that will benefit the American Red Cross Sierra Nevada chapter. 
 Raley's has agreed to match this donation making the total amount $50,000.  So Steve, I'd like to pass that back to you. 
 STEVE GRIFFITH:  Let me bring in now Jon Miller, the executive VP of NBC Sports who oversees the event. 
 JON MILLER:  We feel a very close connection to the community and this is our second home for a lot of us.  And we have been coming out to the region for the past 18 years and have made great, great friendships that are very important to us. 
 Obviously when this hit several weeks ago we were as alarmed and concerned as anyone, and wanted to do something to help make a difference so we are going to use our broadcast in addition to the donations that we are making to help raise awareness and to help raise more funds for this Tahoe relief effort. 
 You should also know that in the height of everything, we actually reached out to the community to ask if they still wanted the event to go forward, because the last thing we wanted to do was to conduct this event in the face of what was obviously a growing tragedy and one that was of great concern to all of us. 
 And the response that we got back from the community was overwhelming; that, yes, they did want us to come, and they welcomed us back and so they wanted us there and we were going to be there but we were going to be there in more than just our usual capacity.  You are going to see all three days of the telecast, Friday on ESPN, and Saturday and Sunday on NBC.  We will be broadcasting an 800 number as well as PSAs and interviews to help raise awareness for the community. 
 We are happy to be back there and feel terrible about what's happened but want to be part of the solution in helping this area rebuild and grow from strength to strength. 
 STEVE GRIFFITH:  Nancy from Raley's, can you tell us how this shaped up locally? 
 NANCY MCGAGIN:  Absolutely.  Raley's is a privately-owned company.  We have 130 supermarkets based here in west Sacramento and northern California, and we are obviously just an hour, hour and a half from our fellow colleagues and customers up in the Lake Tahoe area. 
 We have a year-round program that we partner with our customers to help in need of food.  So it was an easy transition for us.  We transitioned the program over the first day of the fires so that now we can partner with our customers in the -- not only in the Lake Tahoe area but throughout our 130 stores and Raley's has agreed to not only contribute, but we will match up to $100,000 for whatever our customers will donate. 
 We work also with American Red Cross because we feel that American Red Cross, they do this for a living, they know what they are doing, they know how to qualify eligible people.  But we are very confident that all of the monies collected will go 100% to the victims of the Tahoe fires. 
 STEVE GRIFFITH:  Let's go to our celebrities now. 
 Jack, what crossed your mind when you first heard about the fires and tell us about your connection to the Lake Tahoe community over the years? 
 JACK WAGNER:  I think everybody kind of summed it up that this tournament has represented an something special to not only combine athletes and entertainers through golf, but to bring something to the Lake Tahoe community which I think the community has brought to the tournament. 
 So when all of this came down, you know, obviously tragedy came to my mind.  But then what came to my mind after that is opportunity.  And I think that's what the people who just spoke and have really brought forth here.  You have an opportunity to really give back; an opportunity for American Century, Raley's, NBC, I don't want to leave anybody out here. 
 And also you're going to find everybody up there, celebrities, athletes playing in this tournament, we are have you lived's grateful, one, to play golf, to play on television and to be up there in Lake Tahoe.  It's a fun week for everybody.  So I think this is going to be an opportunity for everyone to give back to this community that's given just so much so this golf tournament. 
 And the people that come up there, I really hope everybody understands that we get massive galleries up there.  People plan their summer vacations around this tournament and NBC has stuck with this for so many years; it's a tribute to Jon and his staff there and have made it a class event.  People actually make this their vacation week. 
 So, you know, it's our opportunity and also a way for to us give back as the celebrities playing up there.  So this is going to be a special, special week, and I just congratulate everybody for their efforts. 
 STEVE GRIFFITH:  Mike, tell us about your connection to the Tahoe community 18 years later. 
 MICHAEL ERUZIONE:  It's amazing, and Jack really touched on it too, to see the galleries and crowds over the years, how much it has expanded.  It's almost become like a family atmosphere.  You walk down the fairways, and you see the same people who come out and support the event.  They don't just follow the winners or the leaders; they follow and support everybody in this event. 
 For myself over the years, I've had the pleasure of being involved in the hockey community and gone back and done some hockey clinics with the kids and try to get involved with the community because they support the event so much. 
 Jack touched on it the best:  As tragic as it is, I still think this is a great opportunity for the people of Tahoe to come out and support the event and we can support them and help them in any way that they can to help them get back on their feet or maybe for a week have them forget some of the tragedy that's just taken place and give them something to smile about. 
 As Jack mentioned, people do plan their vacations around that event and you will see a lot of people come out and support it, not only for NBC and American Century, but for the celebrities themselves. 

 Q.  As you can imagine, it was hell here last week and we were like Ground Zero disseminating all of the information and one thing I've been telling my listeners, we need business up here.  There was a lot of questions whether we should have our big 4th of July celebration and we decided yes, because the fire has been over 90 percent contained and we are going through with it.  We are making a celebration to all of the firefighters and personnel and the volunteers and the community has really rallied around.  My house was spared fortunately but a lot of folks have lost their homes and we are ecstatic, especially Nancy with Raley's, that you guys are coming up here.  I know Kevin Nealon, he has a place up here and obviously the national news media makes it look like the entire place is on fire, but it is controlled, even though a few thousand acres were burned.  But we are ecstatic that you are coming up here because it would really help our local economy and trust me, the community is grateful that all of you are coming up here.  We really, really thank you. 
 PHIL WEIDINGER:  The fires started a week ago yesterday on Sunday, and with the winds, it really got going in a big way.  We have been extremely fortunate, although we have lost 254 homes, we have zero fatalities and three minor injuries from firefighters incidents.  It's over 90, maybe 95 first contained right now, so no flames leaping anywhere and the sky is clear and it's blue again and getting back to normal from that standpoint. 
 The community has jumped in in a big way to help out in as many ways as possible and so everybody has shelter and everybody has had food to eat, and now it's time to get those people back on their feet and the best way to do that quite frankly is to have a healthy local economy that can help them do that and support them during this time. 
 This week during 4th of July is a big week, followed the next week by the American Century Championship, and we want everybody to know Lake Tahoe is open and the roads are open and operating and no danger from that standpoint.  This tournament is a great opportunity for Lake Tahoe to show itself around the world about how resilient we are and the fact that we are moving forward and the tournament is a great way to show that. 
 The sensitive with NBC Sports and American Century Championship has been huge from that standpoint, because that was the first question they asked, was it appropriate to be doing the tournament and I can tell that you local business leaders met earlier last week and said, hey, we get this fire under control, we're doing 4th of July.  That's what we are doing.  This tournament is going to be a great way to show that off and with Raley's help obviously that's much appreciated. 
 So we're moving forward.  They have cut back the number of firefighters of 2,000 to about 300 or 400, so we are well underway. 

 Q.  Who is the better golfer, you or Heather? 
 JACK WAGNER:  I just was talking to Heather and she said, "Who is Michael Eruzione?" 
 "I think he played hockey."  But I also think he thinks he plays golf.  So I think I'm going to hopefully get Heather up there and maybe Mike and Heather can just have a faceoff or something. 

 Q.  And what do you like best about her? 
 JACK WAGNER:  That would probably go under the category of everything. 

 Q.  And why do you two make a great pair? 
 JACK WAGNER:  Because we watch NBC Sports. 
 JON MILLER:  'Atta boy, Jack. 
 MARK KILLEN:  What's Heather's handicap? 
 JACK WAGNER:  Me right now. 
 MARK KILLEN:  Lawrence Taylor is going to be coming back out, he has not been to Tahoe in over ten years and will be coming out.  Chris Tucker, the actor is coming, and we've heard from it looks like we're probably going to get Lamar Odom out there as well. 

 Q.  Nancy, can you give a little more detail with the Raley's part of this?  You're doing the initial match in the $25,000 matching the tournament and you've rolled over your food program; is that all 130 stores? 
 NANCY MCGAGIN:  It is, indeed, all 130 stores.  In other words, we have cash collection boxes at every check stand in every store.  So we have 130 stores throughout northern California and northern Nevada, and we have converted those to collection of funds for the Fire Victims Relief Fund through the end of July.  And we will match up to one 100,000 of that.  We are matching the pot with the 100,000 to encourage our customers, people, to contribute. 
 While I have the opportunity, I would like to echo what Phil and others have said.  It's been a tragic time, but unfortunately or fortunately, life must go on.  People have lost their homes.  Let's not have them lose their jobs.  This area up there is so dependent tourism, and I think it's fabulous that the golf tournament is going to go on as planned. 
 And I would entourage people, come out, participate, enjoy the beautiful area, and contribute so these people can get back on their feet. 

 Q.  Do you know how much you have raised so far from customers? 
 NANCY MCGAGIN:  We are probably up to about 50,000 right now. 
 In addition to what we are doing for our customers, internally we are doing a relief fund for our own colleagues because several of our colleagues have lost their homes. 
 But that we are doing internally.  What we are doing at our stores is to help our customers and help the people that have area that have been so afflicted. 

 Q.  For Mark, you've been coming up here for nine years now with the championship, you've gotten to know probably a few locals during that time and explore parts of the south shore; what went through your mind when you first heard about the details of this wild fire? 
 MARK KILLEN:  Well obviously we were very concerned about what was going on, primarily for the community because we so value this tournament.  This is our largest client event that we do every year.  We love coming up there.  We have created quite a partnership with NBC and with the Lake Tahoe community. 
 So we are very, very interested in how things are going in terms of fighting the fires.  I know that back in Kansas City, which is our primary headquarters, we were watching the weather forecasts, the wind forecasts and were very concerned about what was going on and anxious to help out. 
 So it was terrific to be able to get with Jon Miller at NBC to come up with this approach and to redirect some of the fundraising and create some awareness for those people in need. 
 As everyone has said on this call, it's important to get people out to the tournament and we hope to break the gate record by getting people to come through and help support the community. 

 Q.  Nancy, Raley's has a nice history of supporting golf from the sponsorship standpoint for charity, to raise funds for charity; might this precipitate Raley's getting back into the tournament sponsor business? 
 NANCY MCGAGIN:  Oh, wouldn't that be nice.  We do indeed have a history.  As you well know, we are the major or the local presenting sponsor for the senior golf tournament when it was held here in the Sacramento area for a number of years. 
 There are so many organizations out there where I personally am very fortunate to work for a company that believes in giving back to the community.  We like to make ourselves and make our resources available to as many organizations as possible. 
 So I would not rule golf out.  We gave it a fair run, and who is to say that the next generation are going to be future golfers, too, and they may want to get back into that game. 

 Q.  I know that the Teel family has property; was it perhaps affected by the fire? 
 NANCY MCGAGIN:  Joyce Raley Teel and her husband, Jim Teel, do indeed have a home in the Tahoe area.  They are very fortunate and blessed that their home has been spared. 

 Q.  Jack, you finally broke through after knocking on the door for a couple of years; what odds would you put on yourself if I wanted to make a bet on you this year? 
 JACK WAGNER:  Well, I've never had to defend up here before. 

 Q.  I know. 
 JACK WAGNER:  So I'm just kind of starting this whole thing anew.  I'm sort of pretending last year didn't happen. 
 And I'm having my son on the bag again, Peter.  I'm around scratch, and Rick is playing, he'll be about 10 to 1. 
 Last year is one of the years where I just held it together coming in and previous years I haven't.  And maybe I can draw on that.  My son is 16 and loves the game; he was there last year and he'll be there grinding me. 
 I think instead of betting on me you can donate it to the relief fund to the Tahoe people, but maybe you want to throw a 20 bucks to the side. 

 Q.  I can donate the winnings -- 
JACK WAGNER:  That would be great.  Find me and I'll double it. 
 PHIL WEIDINGER:  Harrah's official sportsbook has you listed at 7 to 1. 
 JACK WAGNER:  Oh, my God.  Why did you do that?  Honey, get the steamer going; I've got to sweat this out. 

 Q.  After knocking on the door for a couple of years -- 
 JACK WAGNER:  I have but nobody listened. 

 Q.  I know how hard you worked to win the title last year, but how much effort have you put in beforehand this year to try to defend?  I think you had like a month and a half, two months last year where you put in a lot of effort like playing every day and practicing every day at the range. 
 JACK WAGNER:  Right.  I don't play a lot of golf holes.  I primarily just hit balls when I can, because the schedule on the soap opera is pretty grinding. 
 My son has his own license and his own car now, so he drives himself to the golf course.  So I kind of have to get my lazy buns over there myself.  But I've been hitting a few balls. 
 And you know, this golf tournament does come down to nerve because so many guys have short irons into a lot of these holes coming in, and it's really about keeping your nerve on the greens.  And last year I finally did it.  That's really what it comes down to.  I've had a lot of changes in my life in the last 18 months, and, you know, this is one of the rewards for those changes. 
 Appreciate the support and I am going to try to keep the putter from shaking. 
 JON MILLER:  Steve, I'm really glad to hear you're on the phone because we've been keeping tabs on stuff through Phil and Steve.  We understand you've gone through a pretty tough time out there, and we wanted you to know that we at NBC and all of the folks at American Century Championship and all of the players appreciate all of the support you've given the tournament over the years, and we're happy to be in a position to give back, as well. 
 STEVE YINGLING:  My family appreciates that as well and so do the families in the community.  It's been a tough week as you can expect but my wife and I are pretty strong people and trying to get a good example for our kids, and so in case they come upon a tragedy in the future that they will be able to handle something like this. 
 JON MILLER:  So where you are living now? 
 STEVE YINGLING:  We out of the grace of somebody's generosity in this community, this family never met us before but they are letting us stay at their vacation home.  So we've been pretty fortunate in that respect.  It was that day, the next day on Monday, the day after the fire started that we were able to get into this house and kind of make things a little bit more normal for the boys, because the boys are 14 and 15 and they lost pretty much all their stuff.  For teenagers that's a big blow to your life. 
 PHIL WEIDINGER:  For those of you who don't know, Steve Yingling is the sports editor of the Tahoe Daily Tribune, and he's had a pretty difficult week and we appreciate you taking the time to get on the phone. 
 Steve wrote a column last week about why he's doing a lot of different interviews and, you know, the fact that it's helpful in the healing process, but also because Steve, if you want to talk a little about that column instead of me, it's probably more important. 
 STEVE YINGLING:  Yeah, for my community here, I didn't know how generous they really were.  You really find out what a community is like in this kind of situation.  We have had everything from clothes to food and this place that we are staying at.  The Red Cross came in the very next day and made sure everybody had clothes and food and they helped people find places to stay. 
 We also had, you know, churches, and my own newspaper here people have been gathering clothes and food that's really accessible to the victims.  So that was pretty special to be able to have those basic needs taken care of.  There's a lot of other stressful things we've had to worry about going up to seeing our properties the other day. 
 We didn't go up as a family until yesterday; we brought the whole family.  I had been up earlier to try to rescue our cat and that, but yesterday was the first day and it really hit home, just to be digging through the rubble and trying to recoup a couple thing that you hoped to find.  But we were fortunate there, too.  We found some of my wife's jewelry and my class ring from my dad, my late dad, he left me a Penn State class ring and we were able to dig through and find that.  Stuff like that was kind of surprising that we were able to find it because the fire, a lot of you guys probably don't know the extent of it but it's level at all of these houses.  I don't think there are too many that don't have partial damage.  It's just leveled right to the ground.  So it's pretty difficult. 

 Q.  How is Heather's game coming along, and what's her greatest strength, as her coach I'm asking you, her personal coach, what is her strength and what does she need to work on? 
 JACK WAGNER:  Her greatest strength is obviously on the golf course, wardrobe, which I try to work on myself.  She told me to just sit down and not speak. 

 Q.  Will she be styling you for this tournament? 
 JACK WAGNER:  You know, I've gone in her closet and found some things I like.  But she doesn't think they will fit. 
 JON MILLER:  By the way, Edgewood is a spikeless course, Jack. 
 JACK WAGNER:  I've been waiting for something from you.  Thanks, Pal. 
 JON MILLER:  This is going to be a little bit different than it has been in prior years because we do want to engage the audience with that stuff. 
 JACK WAGNER:  Have you gotten any commitments from the bigger names, Michael or anybody, to do any kind of a piece in connection to this? 
 JON MILLER:  We are going to hit most of the guys when we get out there because they are obviously all scattered right now.  But as guys start to come in, we'll have ample opportunities at the range and at the different functions to get some talking heads from these guys to talk about it. 

 Q.  Mike, I know you've had a lot of community involvement, have you ever been involved on a charity basis with anything of this magnitude that you can recall? 
 MICHAEL ERUZIONE:  Not really.  I guess my hometown when they threatened to eliminate all of the school sports and co-curricular activities for our students, but nothing in where homes were damaged and lives were changed in a one-week period. 
 For me and I think all of the athletes, probably most of us are looking forward to coming out there and bringing some joy to a lot of people and not the kind of joy Jack brings by winning; the joy of watching me hit into the trees and watch Charles swing.  Maybe we can have fun for a week and forget about what has happened and also raise a lot of money at the same time. 
 For me this is the first time I've been associated with an event like this. 

 Q.  Jack, will you be doing anything special this time out as opposed to last year, because you know how actor's tend to go to superstitions, like not shaving? 
 JACK WAGNER:  I'm a little like that.  I do have some superstitions.  Those shorts I wore all week last year, I'm looking for them.  They haven't been washed, they haven't been touched.  Don't tell anybody, though, okay. 
 STEVE GRIFFITH:  Thanks everyone for joining us. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT