OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 31, 2021
Brandon Stone
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q Brandon, end of the week, 13-under, a couple shy but your thoughts on how things have gone.
 BRANDON STONE:   Yeah, obviously extremely proud of the performance I put up this week.  Played some lovely golf, considering I was -- I think I was 2- or 3-over through five holes on Thursday.  So it's a fantastic fight back.  And you know, any time you're going to be in contention here at the Emirates, it's quite special.  The media have been supporting this tournament for many years, and the illustrious list of winners that have their name on the trophy is quite special.  And on top of all that, I got to play with Sergio which is like a boyhood dream come true.  Other than that it was a horrible week (smiling).
 Q What was the mindset knowing you were starting the day a couple shots off the pace?
 BRANDON STONE:   It wasn't really in much consideration.  Especially after the first six holes and I'm 3-over par, I didn't really think about winning a tournament anymore.  It was more a case of playing some about golf.  That's the mentality I've had for the last few months and it's served me well so far.  So hopefully I can carry that with me for the rest of the season.
 Q Talk about the front nine compared to the back nine.
 BRANDON STONE:   Felt horrible, felt like I was doing a couple rounds with Mike Tyson.  Felt like I couldn't get the ball on the green to be fair.  Felt like I was putting from a distance, and every time I was putting I was putting for par.
 The long walk from 9 green to the 10th tee box kind of reset everything.  Kind of just said, all you have to do is hit one good shot and one good shot.  Got very fortunate on 10 to get a good bounce and get on the green and two-putt for birdie and the momentum kept on building.
 To finish level par in the conditions that we had and all the pressure is something I'm very proud of.
 Q Positive start to the season for yourself?
 BRANDON STONE:   Very much so.  I think I played solid golf last week in Abu Dhabi, a rough patch of five holes on Friday morning but other than that, it's been very steady, very solid golf, so it's definitely something to build on and something to help motivate me for the weeks to come and at the moment, as good as this week has been, I'm focusing on Saudi next week and maybe try and grab one or two places better.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT