THE SOLHEIM CUP
September 20, 1998
Judy Rankin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Judy, congratulations, you did a great job.

JUDY RANKIN:  Everybody did a great job. Everybody.


Q.  Did it come a little closer today than you thought it would?

JUDY RANKIN:  It came as close as I knew it could and I was -- I was very, frankly, scared to death all day today.  I thought about it last night because it was clear the Europeans could play as well today as we played last year on Sunday.


Q.  The feelings you have now as the proud captain of this team watching these little girls, such an emotional ride today?

JUDY RANKIN:  You know, we've become so close through this and I'm just -- I'm so happy that we've got to do this together.  It's been a little chance in my life for me to go back and that's pretty special.


Q.  And the way they just answered the call on these putts?

JUDY RANKIN:  They did.  They did.  And Sherri Steinhauer, boy, somebody should send her some flowers.


Q.  Are you pretty proud of your two captain's picks?  They kind of clinched it the last two matches.

JUDY RANKIN:  I'm real proud of my two captain's picks.  You know, it's nice for those two players to play well because they probably feel a little extra added pressure because they weren't qualifiers.


Q.  Where were you when it was clinched?

JUDY RANKIN:  I was back here when Sherri birdied 15 and I stayed at the tee when she birdied 16 and that was -- it's the only end of a winning match that I actually got to witness today.  I heard a few, but there weren't so many to see today.


Q.  Were you all by yourself?  Was there some time to yourself --

JUDY RANKIN:  I've been standing back here with four or five fans.


Q.  What were your thoughts at that time?

JUDY RANKIN:  Relief.  (Laughs).


Q.  Any substitute for home course fans and the  advantage that that gives?

JUDY RANKIN:  I think we were helped a little bit with my knowledge of the course and a couple of other players who have played it a fair amount.  Juli Inkster had played it a lot, Tammie Green has played it quite a few times.  So I think we had a little edge with golf course knowledge.


Q.  And the fans giving the lift to the golfers out here?

JUDY RANKIN:  The fans were terrific.  They really were.  And they were in numbers.  I thank so many people for coming out and supporting these players.  I think that the people who came here were treated to some spectacular golf and golf that maybe they weren't aware could be this good.


Q.  Golf can be a team game, can't it?

JUDY RANKIN:  It can be a team game and I think maybe Columbus hasn't seen so much of women's professional golf in recent years, and I think people were pretty taken.


Q.  Thank you.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT