U.S. OPEN
September 4, 1994
Ginger Helgeson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How disappointed are you? 

GINGER HELGESON: Pretty disappointed, but, I mean, she didn't allow me to play my game,
and so I give her a lot of credit, she played really well, served well. The wind didn't
seem to bother her much, it really bothered me and, usually, you know, she doesn't
concentrate that well through the entire -- entirety of the matches, and she did today I
was waiting for her to break or make some errors, and it just kind of never came. So, she
played as well as I have seen her play. 

Q. Did you want to come in more? 

GINGER HELGESON: What's that? 

Q. Was that part of the plan; did you want to get in more? 

GINGER HELGESON: I couldn't because she was serving incredibly well on her first and
second serves. You know, it wasn't -- her second serve is not something you can really
clobber. It was coming out wide with the wind and so -- I mean, deep, like right on the
service line -- I have something in my eye -- so it was really tough for me to get in, and
usually she doesn't chip and charge that well. I mean, she did it every time, and she just
didn't miss much. So -- and when, you know, they did go in, they were just two inches from
the baseline, and it's just so tough to pass off of that. 

Q. Was the wind a problem for the service toss -- 

GINGER HELGESON: And it was really tough. Yeah, my toss was going everywhere, and I
just couldn't find the rhythm. 

Q. Ginger, as she was about to serve at 5-3, you changed your racket; what was that all
about? 

GINGER HELGESON: Well, I mean, everything was sailing on me and, so, I picked up a
racket that was a couple pounds tighter, the tension. 

Q. You broke her serve with that racket? 

GINGER HELGESON: Yeah, maybe I should have started with it. 

Q. Was it a couple pounds tighter? 

GINGER HELGESON: Yeah. 

Q. Did it get windier as you went along? 

GINGER HELGESON: Yes. I warmed up at 5:15 to 6:00, there was almost nothing. And I felt
really good out there. I was hitting the ball well, and then when we stepped out on the
court, it started out being windy, and then it got windier as the match went along. 

Q. What do you think of your tournament as a whole now, Ginger? 

GINGER HELGESON: I'm really happy with it. Yeah. All you can do is play your best and
see what happens, and that's what I did tonight and I -- she didn't allow me to play my
best, so I give her a lot of credit for that, but the tournament was great, you know,
beating Conchita was the highlight and that's something I'll always take with me, so it's
been positive. 

Q. But what she did wasn't a surprise; right? 

GINGER HELGESON: Her tactics, no. But, her unforced errors are usually higher and she
usually just mentally breaks down a little bit here and there. She'll play three good
games and then two not so well, because I played her before and that's what she's done and
I've watched her too. So she concentrated really well and played solid through the whole
thing. 

Q. Are you going back to Alpine now? 

GINGER HELGESON: I'm not done yet. I'm still in doubles. 

Q. That's right, you've got a pretty good shot; right? 

GINGER HELGESON: Yes. I've got to get to bed. 

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT