U.S. OPEN
September 2, 1994
Ginger Helgeson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How does it feel having defeated Conchita Martinez? 

GINGER HELGESON: It feels great. I've -- it's been tough, you know, playing her so many
times, and playing well at periods of times, but never really converting, and capitalizing
on my opportunities and just finally closing out the match. I played her really well in
San Diego three weeks ago. I played great, and I felt that if her passing shots at that
point were just a percent off, I would have won that match. So I knew going into this
match that I was going to play the same way. It just so happened I came out trying to play
that way and a lot of balls were flying and they weren't going in, and I stayed calm and
kept plugging away and just tried to stay even with her in the second set and hold my
serve and always be up, and then I knew I could -- once I got to the third set, I knew I
could play some good tennis. 

Q. Do you consider this a breakthrough match for you? 

GINGER HELGESON: Yeah, I do, in the sense of, you know, when you lose to somebody so
many times, it's really hard to get over that hurdle to just keep believing every time you
walk out on the court that you can do it. It just may take five, six times. 

Q. Ginger, did you hear Gigi cheering for her as the match was going on? 

GINGER HELGESON: No. 

Q. Ginger, do you suppose they will be excited in Alpine tonight? 

GINGER HELGESON: Well, if the San Diego paper covers it, maybe they will be -- hey,
that's not a jab, just if they know about it. 

Q. How did she look to you; did she look one hundred percent or did she look like she
was favoring the arm or slowing up on serves? 

GINGER HELGESON: The only thing is just that when I have played her before, she goes
through periods of time where she looks like she's not interested or just doesn't care,
kind of lacks, so I was prepared for that. In fact, she's done it every single match at
some point in our -- for a couple games here and there. So, I saw her go like this once or
twice -- (RIGHT HAND BACK AND UP OVER SHOULDER) -- but I didn't think she was going to
quit or had a major problem. 

Q. Why is today different than the previous six? 

GINGER HELGESON: Well, I just think that, like I said before, I played her a really
tough match in San Diego, and that gave me more belief that I was very, very close to
beating her, because I was coming in, controlling every single point, and the only thing
that was happening in that match is I was making the first volley, but it was sitting up,
because -- because she dips the ball so low. You've either got to drop-volley it or really
get your feet in position and force it deep. So, I was setting up the first ball and she
passed me on the second so I felt I was more prepared for that this time, to volley a
little bit shorter and have her come up, and just to be close a lot more. 

Q. It seems the margin for error-- and a lot of players talking about this-- for a
serve and volleyer, it's very small, and so do you ever, after playing that well and
losing a set, you didn't have any second thoughts about anything, I won't attack as much? 

GINGER HELGESON: No, I won -- I knew I was very close to beating her with that game
plan. 

Q. Were you at all -- when you got her coming up like that, were you surprised that her
choice of shots, a lot of cross court stuff instead of down the lines? 

GINGER HELGESON: In San Diego she passed cross court 90 percent of the time. At
Wimbledon, in the final, I watched her against Martina and she just had that backhand dip
down and she loves that shot. And so, I was, you know, like I said, prepared to close the
net off a lot more. She lobbed me, I don't know, three times, so I didn't have to guard-- 

Q. Why? Did you know you had to play good tennis if you were going to get to the third
set? 

GINGER HELGESON: I believe in myself, I knew I could. 

Q. How hard was it maintaining your confidence after the tough start? 

GINGER HELGESON: It wasn't so hard in the sense that I didn't get down 3-0 in the
second set. You know, I think that would have been really hard, but I just stayed even
with her and held my serve through the second set, and there were a couple, you know, long
deuce games where it could have gone the other way. But I mentally stayed strong and made
her earn every point and tried to attack as much as I could. 

Q. Sabatini on the ropes last year, you had her in trouble; did that help you today? 

GINGER HELGESON: Yeah, it did because last year, that was my first time on Stadium --
yeah, Stadium Court here and being that the -- the magnitude of that match was huge. I had
never experienced something like that before. So, actually, today it seemed almost smaller
because when I won two days ago, I was prepared to play tonight, you know, again. 

Q. Do you know how many wins you have over top ten opponents? 

GINGER HELGESON: Do I know how many wins I have? 

Q. Yes. 

GINGER HELGESON: I've beaten Mary Joe on grass, Eastbourne, Sukova, Zvereva, my one set
over Martina in Team Tennis. Those are a few. Right now I can't think of any more. 

Q. How would you describe Alpine, California? Where is it exactly? What does it look
like? 

GINGER HELGESON: To describe it, it's very, very peaceful and beautiful, and it's 25
miles east of San Diego. It takes me about 25 to 30 minutes to get to practice and it's in
the mountains, little bit, up two thousand feet, and there's a lot of land out there and
the houses aren't on top of each other and you wake up to birds. 

Q. You choose to live there because it reminds you of Minnesota? 

GINGER HELGESON: Ha! 

Q. Do you choose to live there because it reminds you -- 

GINGER HELGESON: Yes, I'm not used to living in a city with a lot of commotion , like
New York, or neighbors right next to you. I just -- I grew up with a little bit of land
and so it does remind me of Minnesota. It is a small town and people are just so genuine
and nice. 

Q. How many years were you at Pepperdine? 

GINGER HELGESON: Four. 

Q. Did you get a degree? 

GINGER HELGESON: No, I have eight classes left which is a full year and, so, I would
like to finish there whenever the time presents itself. 

Q. How many people do you think live in Alpine? 

GINGER HELGESON: How many people live in Alpine? 

Q. Yes. 

GINGER HELGESON: Ten to 11,000. 

Q. That's a fine size little town. 

GINGER HELGESON: Yes. 

Q. They got a great bakery there, right? 

GINGER HELGESON: Right. Yes, I try to stay away from that. 

Q. Back to tennis a moment. In the second set you were serving at 3-3 and she had a
breakpoint and blew the overhead; did she go haywire after that, do you think, did that
have an effect on her? 

GINGER HELGESON: It did have. You know, I mean, it was -- yeah, because, you know, she
could have gone up 4-3, then be serving, that was a critical point, and -- but as to how
much it affected her, you'd have to ask her. 

Q. And also, your serve, how do you feel like the strength of your serve-- the speed
that you were doing, putting them back a lot of times like that, especially at critical
points, what effect did that have on it? 

GINGER HELGESON: I really didn't feel I was serving very well at all in the first set,
and the beginning of the second I was struggling. I've been serving well and I really
didn't know why. I was just focusing on that round because I knew if I started serving
better, I'd get shorter balls and a lot quicker freer points right off the bat. So I felt
that I figured it out and in the third set turned it on. 

Q. What did you think when she missed that overhead? Were you -- 

GINGER HELGESON: That it was deuce. 

Q. You didn't think lucky, relieved, I mean, that's a sitter overhead right there? 

GINGER HELGESON: Obviously, she didn't concentrate very well on it and I was just ready
-- I was happy to be back at deuce and not broken. 

Q. Back to Alpine for a second, you said to the -- it says in the media guide that you
have an interest in pottery. Do you? 

GINGER HELGESON: I don't know where they got that. 

Q. They phonied that up? 

GINGER HELGESON: I took a pottery class at Pepperdine and had a great time and my mom
is into art. 

Q. You're not a pottery major? 

GINGER HELGESON: No, no. I don't know why that's in there. 

Q. They made it sound like you made your own pots and everything? 

GINGER HELGESON: I'm not that earthy. 

Q. Hugh Bream said he gave you a great chance to win this match, does some of your
confidence -- did you draw some of it from him? 

GINGER HELGESON: Yeah. 

Q. Maybe you draw it from you? 

GINGER HELGESON: Probably both. He helped me a lot over the last three years, he's just
a terrific guy and he's a very -- has a calming effect on me when he coaches me. I tend to
panic at times and get uptight and he just stays even keeled and, you know, keeps me on
the path that I need to be on. And he's really helped me get a lot of variety in my game
and working with him has raised my belief. 

Q. Is that the man you went and hugged at the end? 

GINGER HELGESON: H-U-G-H, B-R-E-A-M. Yes. 

Q. What would you say was the single most important factor in your match today as
compared to the previous matches with your victories? 

GINGER HELGESON: Well, I think the belief that I took from San Diego was a big factor
in this match because I felt I moved a lot closer to believing that I could beat her from
that match, and also, my first two rounds here I felt I was playing very well. So, I knew
that I was capable of doing it in whatever form it came in. Whether it was two sets or
three sets, I was prepared to take it in whatever form it did come. 

Q. The press book says -- we better check since it was not accurate on pottery-- says
something about you getting married in the fall of '94? 

GINGER HELGESON: In 23 days, yes. 

Q. In Alpine? 

GINGER HELGESON: Uh-hum. 

Q. To whom? 

GINGER HELGESON: Tod Nielson (phonetic). 

Q. Ginger, how do you like your chances the rest of the tournament, you have a pretty
nice draw there; have you thought that far ahead and do you feel you could reach the semis
and possibly final? 

GINGER HELGESON: I'm not thinking that far, I just now found out that I play She-Ting
Wang or Gigi and I'll come out and play as well as I can in that match. And, you know, for
me, just staying in this is really special in these tournaments. It's hard to stay calm
and relaxed. And if I have a day off, we don't even come out here, we practice in Central
Park and that helps a lot. So, I'm not going to be looking towards semis or anything
because I'm not there yet. So... 

Q. How do you look at this match, that you beat the third ranked player in the world or
the Wimbledon champion? 

GINGER HELGESON: Both, both. 

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT