WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2000
Marc Rosset
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR: Questions for Marc Rosset. 

Q. The last game of this match must have been one of the best of your career?

MARC ROSSET: No. I think that during the fifth I have like good opportunities to make
the break. I mean, I remember one game where he dived to save a ball, then I have an easy
passing shot, then I miss another one. I think at that game, it should be mine. Then I was
lucky, deuce on my own serve, make an unbelievable volley. At 15-30, I never thought I
would win that game, especially the way he serve the first two points, two aces. I came
back. I just make an unbelievable passing shot. You know, when you're like 8-7 in the
fifth, there's nothing else. You just have to try to take some risk and go for it. I mean,
I've been lucky.

Q. Were you frustrated at a certain point?

MARC ROSSET: I think I was like 5-4 up in the fifth, Love-30 on his serve. I think he
was nervous because he obviously he give me the first two points by really two bad
mistakes. Then the third point was a rally from the baseline, a few opportunities to come
in, I didn't did it. I was really tight at that moment. I was quite pissed with myself. To
win a match on grass, you have to take some risks, you have to go for it. You cannot wait
like on clay. There's no way you can just put the ball back and wait for the mistake.

Q. Are you training in a particular way now for grass?

MARC ROSSET: No, not really. I mean, it's just serve-and-volley, and you have to really
be consistent mentally. I think it's the key. Also to return well. I mean, you can serve
very well, but the most important is the second serve. I think the return is really
important on grass. Today I was quite lucky with my second serve a few times. I think it
was my best match so far the way I was returning.

Q. Alexander Popp, your next opponent. 

MARC ROSSET: Already beat Kuerten. I don't know the score. I practise with him this
morning. I mean, he's the only guy taller than me on the tour. It was a strange feeling
for me. Seems that the guy has a serious serve. I don't think there will be so many
rallies. But I think that if I can be consistent like today -- I have ten years on the
tour, so I think I have better experience than him in those situation. I think if I can
wait for the opportunities, maybe try to take them. 

Q. Experience will be a big factor next week?

MARC ROSSET: I don't think he's going to break me 15 times. I don't think I'm going to
break him 15 times. When you reach 5-All, 6-All in the set, I mean, it's just experience,
it's just mental. I hope I'm going to be better than him. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT