U.S. OPEN
August 31, 1995
Marc Rosset
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Marc, you have had a very good career obviously and not much success in the Majors.
I just wondered if you had any thoughts on some reasons; and I know there has been some
injuries and stuff?
 
 MARC ROSSET: I mean, I am asked the question four times a year, why I don't play well
in the Slams. You know, when I going to find the key or why I don't play so well, I am
going to have a big press conference and tell the press why. Right now, I don't know why.
If I knew, I would play better, but I don't know why. 
 
Q. It's the same thing a lot of people look at the big serve. Serving 125, you are
averaging today or whatever. They want to know why aren't you a top 10 player,
consistently, top five, top six with that much power in the serve. What is it that it is
keeping you out of the top six or whatever you may be in the world?
 
 MARC ROSSET: I don't know, I think it is maturity, you know. And I go slowly, but every
year I progress a little bit. It is like two years top 16, 14. Now I reached the top 10.
First time in my life now and I think that every year I am improving mentally. It is just
a question between the first and the other. It is just a question of the mind. 
 
Q. Physically?
 
 MARC ROSSET: Physically, of course, you can improve physically. You can improve
mentally. You can -- but I don't think I am really far away physically than a guy like
Stich, but I mean, on the ranking, he is much better than me. 
 
Q. Is the serve sometimes a hinderance because you tend to rely on it too much, maybe
and not the other parts of the game or do you not see it that way?
 
 MARC ROSSET: No, I mean, my serve, for me, is pretty important, you know. It gives me a
lot of confidence and puts a lot of pressure on the other guy. So when I serve well,
usually I feel comfortable on the court. 
 
Q. How does it feel going into the game today against Patrick? You had played him once
this year against Patrick Rafter previously.
 
 MARC ROSSET: I played him once in Key Biscayne two years ago. I lost in two sets pretty
easy. I mean, I am pretty happy the way I returned his serve and so I feel -- yeah, I am
happy.  
 
Q. How do you like playing U.S. Open like in front of the New York crowd and how does
that feel different compared to a general tournament? Can you feel more electricity?
 
 MARC ROSSET: No, I think to feel the electricity you have to play unbelievable five set
match at night in the stadium against a good guy, where both they play the best tennis
they can; then it could be interesting, I mean, a match like today, it is nothing special,
you know. 
 
Q. Are you thinking about the next round or down the road have you set any goals now?
 
 MARC ROSSET: I don't know who I play next round. 
 
Q. Any thoughts?
 
 MARC ROSSET: Reneberg or Rafter when I first looked at the draw. It was not really easy
draw for me, so I didn't look too far away, just like the first two rounds, so now maybe I
can see the draw and look who I play. 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT