WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2000
Marc Rosset
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Ladies and Gentlemen, Marc Rosset.  
 
 
Q. Three straight sets.  Was it as easy as it looked?
 
MARC ROSSET:  I mean, on this surface, it's never really easy because you don't have so many opportunities.  Always like close sets.  I mean, if you look by the results, it's easy match because I won in three.  The first two sets were quite difficult.  
 
Q. How do you feel now with your game?
 
MARC ROSSET:  I can still improve a few things for the next matches.  But I'm pleased the way I played today, compared to the first round.  Physically and mentally, I was more ready to fight.  I played much better.  I had better consistent on my serve.  I was moving better.  I mean, is more like mentally I was there today.  
 
Q. Tommy Haas is your next opponent.  What do you think of him?
 
MARC ROSSET:  I mean, he's not a grass court specialist, but if he won two rounds here and he beat Vinciguerra today, he's playing well.  I'm going to have to be very careful.  I will have to play really good to beat him.  
 
Q. Would you say that a big difference was your serve compared to Arvind's? 
 
MARC ROSSET:  Yeah.  I mean, I'm serving a little bit better.  But I think also I'm more consistent, I'm better physically.  I have 12 years on the tour.  I mean, I think just two different levels between him and me.  
 
Q. Is there much optimism about him?  He's one of our up-and-coming players. 
 
MARC ROSSET:  I think he needs to improve his game a little bit.  You know, he's doing winners, but he's doing also a lot of mistakes.  The second set, 4-3, he give me three points to be Love-40 down.  I mean, at that level of game, it's things you cannot do.  He can make nice winners, but also I think he has to be more solid when the set is tight or the match is tight.  
 
Q. Did you feel his resolve went at some stage?
 
MARC ROSSET:  I mean, I was serving very good today, really a high percentage of first serves.  I think when I won the second set, I think that maybe it was tough for him mentally.  And I feel really strong because I knew he was keeping the quality of serve like in the first two sets, it would be really difficult for him to beat me in five.  I think that, you know, maybe mentally he went down a little bit after the second.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT