COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 3, 1996
Marc Rosset
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Grand Slam Cup, what does it mean to you?
 
 MARC ROSSET: Every match I think -- you journalists seem to believe I can win each and
every match, but then I would be No. 1. He was very good today, Courier. I made a number
of doublefaults. So I can't win with such a bad serve. My serve was lousy today. 
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 MARC ROSSET: I didn't practice that much. I haven't got my rhythm right now. I took a
few days off since the last tournaments. I didn't play any competition match for three
weeks. It is hard to come back; to focus really on the match. He was very good today. 
 
Q. Speaking about the Davis Cup, will you play in Sweden?
 
 MARC ROSSET: I can't confirm anything. I can't confirm I am going to be in Sweden in
February. I am not saying I am not going. But, what I am saying is I can't say today
whether I am going. It is still open. The first round Davis Cup in February next year.
There is one thing certain, if I play the Davis Cup next year, I am not going to play each
and every round. I mean, I have to make a selection according to my calendar, to my
schedule. We may not remain in the World Group and going to New Zealand and other places.
I do not think I am going to be able to do this and go to all these places, because I
don't think it would be possible. I always said I am going to play as long as we have a
competitive team with Jakob Hlasek and so on. Right now we don't and I don't think that I
am going to make cumbersome trips for the Davis Cup next year. 
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 MARC ROSSET: Maybe people are going to ask me. Maybe one day our captain is going to
ask for a decision, but since he didn't I haven't made any so far. Going to Sweden
wouldn't disturb me very much in my schedule, but if I had to go to Argentina in September
or something like that, frankly speaking I am not going to sacrifice my own tournament
schedule for the Davis Cup as I did the previous years. We had a very good team. It was
worth doing it. With Jakob Hlasek, we are very good friends and then you would go to some
effort to play the Davis Cup. But, this time our team is very different now. 
 
Q. How are you going to prepare the next season?
 
 MARC ROSSET: There is a big decision to be made. I would have to undergo surgery with
my nose, but then I would lose two weeks. If I don't, I carry on practicing for the next
season. But, maybe a surgery break I have to make this decision tonight or tomorrow - just
in order to make the appointment for the surgeon. 
 
Q. Do you want to play with Martina Hingis in the Hopman Cup?
 
 MARC ROSSET: Yes, it is normally planned unless the surgery doesn't go very well, with
complications, but normally they told me that I would recover in time to play the Hopman
Cup. But, if I decide I want to be operated on, there is always some risk and you can't be
certain. 
 
Q. What is your nose problem?
 
 MARC ROSSET: My nose septum isn't straight so I have breathing difficulties and I don't
want to have to take drops everyday. When I am 40 I will not be able to take planes
because I really have some breathing difficulties through my nose. Well, they told me I
suffer from sinusitis, so my doctors recommend that I do it right now. It would be
performed in Lucerne, in Switzerland, the surgery. 
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 MARC ROSSET: I have a sort of pre-appointment for next Wednesday. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT