MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 20, 2017
Aditi Ashok
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Obviously the simple question is I guess how are you feeling or what was clicking for you today?
ADITI ASHOK: I think I hit a lot of good putts, and I also hit good approaches on the correct sides of the hole, so I always had uphill putts.  But you still need to putt well to make that many birdies, so I think I did that.  I still feel like I could have made a couple more, but bogey-free was the positive.
Q. You said you felt you could do a little more; what are some of the takeaways that you have going into round 2?
ADITI ASHOK: I hit a couple drives in the rough, and I didn't really think about it much, but then when I was hitting those approaches, it was so much harder to put the ball where I wanted, and a few of them I was actually like struggling for par.  I guess just trying to make sure I keep every drive in the fairway, and yeah, that's it.
Q. To finish round 1 basically very close to the top, I guess that has to feel good, a good confidence boost out of the gate here for you.
ADITI ASHOK: Yeah, definitely, because here you might play well the first day, but even if you're just a couple shots off, there's so many girls back at that score, so sometimes you're just thinking about -- you get defensive, at least I think I do sometimes, so to just post a really low number, you can keep being aggressive through the week, and that's what I'm going to try and do.
Q. Are you playing this as a British Women's Open qualifier?
ADITI ASHOK: Yes, pretty much.  I was actually pretty close to the cutoff.  I wasn't supposed to play this until I found out I wasn't in the British.  But yeah, it's good.  I like the place.  I like the course.  It's good I came.
Q. Is the thought of that qualifier anywhere in your mind?  Your 6-under today is a good start to that.
ADITI ASHOK: Yeah, it wasn't on my mind on the course, but obviously I know that's one of the main reasons I've come here.  But I'm still thinking of it as a golf tournament and just trying to better my finishes that I've had so far this year.  I'm close after the first day, so I want to be up there on Sunday, so I'll try and do that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT