OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 9, 2016
Aditi Ashok
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How do you feel you played today?
ADITI ASHOK: I think I played pretty well, especially in the middle.  I started from the back nine.  I did really well from like 15 to like the middle nine holes, it was really good.  I made four or five birdies, so that was good.
But obviously I didn't play as well on the par 5s as I thought I would.  I made only one birdie and I bogeyed the 10th, as well.  It's not great, but it was still 2-under, so it's not bad.  I'm happy.
Q. Do you feel like you've got a chance to win this tournament?
ADITI ASHOK: I hope to play well tomorrow and have a really low round, because I'm sure especially with the afternoon conditions, people are going to be scoring well.  Hopefully the leaders are not too far ahead from my score but if they are then I have to shoot a really low number tomorrow.
Q. How have you managed to come in here and play so well, considering the build-up to it?
ADITI ASHOK: I played here a couple years ago, so I sort of know the course; it's familiar.
I had like an extra day to practice because unfortunately the caddie passed away.  It's only a three-day tournament, so that helps because I'm really exhausted coming into the final day.
Q. You just kept riding the momentum from last week?
ADITI ASHOK: Yeah, exactly.  I've been playing a lot of events and been playing well through all of them.  I think that's what's helping me.  After this I'll have some off-time, so that's been good.
Q. There's been a lot of spotlight and you seem to be taking it in stride.  How has that been?
ADITI ASHOK: Obviously there is a lot of attention, especially since the Olympics.  A lot of people want to write about me because I'm an Olympian, and not just part of women's golf.  In that sense, I think women's golf is getting more popular in India.  I think it's good and I just try and deal with it the best that I can.
Q. Have you always putted like this?  You really don't take any time on your putts.  Is it completely instinctive in that?
ADITI ASHOK: Kind of.  I think I've been like that from a young age, so pretty much.
Q. How do you assess your year in general terms?
ADITI ASHOK: It's been a great year obviously.  It was a goal to win in my rookie year and I got two wins back-to-back and that was really good, and winning in my home country, as well, that was quite a lot of fun.
I've been playing pretty well through the year and I got a conditional card on the LPGA.  I would have liked to get full status but still -- it's not bad.  I've had a pretty good year.  I'm happen.
Q. What are your next goals?  Are you targeting world No. 1, majors?
ADITI ASHOK: Yeah, obviously majors are really big and I want to do well in them.  I think they are the ultimate test in golf for any golfer to do well at a major, because the world's best are there and to do well there assures that you're a good golfer.  I'm hoping that I can get into all of them but if not, any that I get into, I'm going to try to do well in those next year.
Q. They are talking about the impact your win has had in India.  Have you seen any impact so far?
ADITI ASHOK: I think there will be.  I haven't really gone home since India but still, I think there will be a big impact, because it's the first time in ten years we had an Indian winner, and also I won on the LET after that.
I think it's going to impact women's golf and hopefully more sponsors will want to support women's golf in India.
Q. Are there some areas that you really want to focus on going into 2017?
ADITI ASHOK: Yeah, definitely I think I could still get a lot sharper with my approaches compared to how I am right now.  And plus in the US, the courses are going to be slightly longer, so I'm going to have to get really good with my approaches, and also work on hitting it further.  That's a continuous process.
Q. You don't seem at all fazed when somebody like Yin --
ADITI ASHOK: She's the longest hitter on our Tour.  Honestly I'm so nervous to hit a drive after her because she's like 70 yards past me.  Makes me look so bad.  But still, it's fine.
There's a lot of different ways to make a birdie on a hole, and as long as I'm accurate throughout my round, throughout three days, throughout the event, I still think I can gain shots over the field.
Q. Is there any one tournament you're looking forward to next year?  Anything over in America you really want to win?
ADITI ASHOK: I really want to play the ANA because I got to play there at the LPGA stage one.  I really like that golf course.  I didn't play it in its pristine condition, but I'm sure it will just be amazing.  The greens are really quick and complex there, so it would be nice to get into that event and play well there.
Q. You seem very calm for a young person.  Is that a natural trait or is it something you have to work on?
ADITI ASHOK: No, I think I'm just naturally calm.  I don't know why.  I don't think it's -- not my dad, but maybe from my mom.
Q. What do you think about playing in the wind?  How do you enjoy playing in windy conditions?
ADITI ASHOK: It is tough in the wind, especially in the headwind, because some holes are really long for me.  Even today the eighth and ninth played headwind and if there's more wind tomorrow, those are going to be really tough for me.  Wind really levels the field because there's no advantage in the wind.  Everyone has to sort of deal with it.
In that sense, I think it's fine.  It's just going to be tougher to go low.  But I don't think it will be that windy -- it's not going to be like links golf, so it's fine.
Q. Last year you did win a couple of tournaments in Europe, on linksy courses.
ADITI ASHOK: Yeah, I won in St. Andrews and the British Stroke Play.  British Stroke Play was actually not links.  It was Moortown where the first Ryder Cup happened in Leeds.
Q. Have you been surprised by the level of interest in you?
ADITI ASHOK: Yeah, definitely, because I think I was playing really well even in my final year of amateur golf, I had already won a couple of professional events in India.  I finished Top-10 in the LET once, Top 15 twice.  I played in Dubai, Sanya.  I played in an LPGA event and I was doing really well as an amateur but obviously I wasn't getting a lot of attention.
I think the Olympics change that had quite a bit.  Even before the Olympics, I was playing in LET events and I did sort of okay, but it wasn't like it was of interest at that time.  But obviously after I played in the Olympics, everyone wants to know what I'm doing because "the Olympian who was leading after two days is now playing here."
I think that made a difference and hopefully the interest continues to grow, and not just with me, but with all the women golfers in India.
Q. Are you a private person, and how have you found being in the spotlight all of a sudden?
ADITI ASHOK: Well, I think it's normal.  It's golf; they just want to know what works for me and what doesn't, so it's fine.  I would say I'm sort of a private person, but it's been pretty fine so far.
Q. Have there been any messages of congratulations you got from anybody you didn't expect?
ADITI ASHOK: Yeah, quite a few.  Like I got a couple from Annika during Rio and when I won in India.  So yeah, that was pretty cool, because I've watched her play growing up and she's one of my idols.  So it was cool to get a message from her.
Q. What did she say?
ADITI ASHOK: She just said, you're on the right track and congrats on your first win and stuff like that.
Coincidentally, her caddie who caddied for her for ten years caddied for me in Stage 3, Terry.
Q. Is he going to caddie for you next year?
ADITI ASHOK: No, he caddies for Carlota, and I know Carlota from 2012.  I played with her in the Indian Open when I finished Top-10.  She actually helped me get Terry.  But no, he's taken.
Q. You said you want to aim for the LPGA Rookie of the Year title?
ADITI ASHOK: Yeah, that would be challenging but I'm sure on the LPGA, I've heard that if you play well, they have reshuffles and so you might get into a good position.  You might be able to get into all events if you just do well in the opportunities you get.  So hopefully I can do that.
And also through the LET, I should be able to play a couple of events like The Scottish Open and stuff like that, which I may not get from the LPGA but I may get from the LET side, and maybe three majors.  I'm not sure yet.
Q. One last thing about your interaction with Annika.  She has been your idol and you met her.  What have you tried to seek out from her?
ADITI ASHOK: Just sort of what are the tough things in professional golf, because it's just my first year out here and obviously it takes a lot to survive for 15 years like she did.  Just stuff like that, what to focus on in my game and otherwise.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT