OLYMPIC GAMES RIO 2016: GOLF
August 20, 2016
Aditi Ashok
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How important was this week for women's golf in India?   
ADITI ASHOK: I think it was important. Obviously I didn't play as well as I hoped, especially the last two days. But I'm sure there has been a lot of attention on me, so women's golf has become a bit popular. I'm hoping to see it grow in the next few weeks. But I'm sure it's been good.  
   
 Q. How do you feel about your role in creating greater visibility for golf through your performance at the Olympics?  
ADITI ASHOK: I tried my best. If I had done better, I'm sure I would have helped with creating greater visibility for golf. I'm sure I would have done that if I played better. But I think going from here, the better I play, the more I'm still going to do that, even if I'm not going to be playing in the Olympics every other week.   
Yeah, I'm looking forward to using this experience and doing that.  
   
 Q. You were aware that Smriti "Simi" Mehra was the first and only Indian woman to play on the LPGA Tour, how did that motivate you?  
ADITI ASHOK: Ever since I started golf, I've always wanted to be playing with the best in the world and competing at the highest level. Yeah, it's great that another Indian has done it before; it is kind of inspiring. I hope that I can go far and maybe go a little extra.  
   
 Q. Have you had any indication that people back home in India are watching you this week, and how much communication, e‑mails, texts, phone calls, have you received?   
ADITI ASHOK: Quite a bit, yeah, on my Facebook page and Twitter has been going off quite a lot. I'm happy that a lot of people who didn't really watch golf are watching golf now. It's only going to get better from here.  
   
 Q. What has to change in India for women's golf to be fully supported by all fans, sponsors and media?   
ADITI ASHOK: Well, I guess we need a lot more players in India, especially, and that will happen when juniors start to pick up the sport more. As long as we keep getting more girls every year playing good golf, I think that's going to help, especially with the local tour, and to get more beginners in India.  
   
 Q. Overall how do you assess your experience this week and your performance?  
ADITI ASHOK: The experience has been great staying at the Olympic Village and playing with the best in the world and I really enjoyed playing this golf course, too. It played different every day because of the wind and the conditions, but yeah, I enjoyed it. With my performance, you know, I could have done better, but you know, I'm going to build on this, and the next time I play bigger events, I'm sure this experience is going to help me.  
   
 Q. What about the final round in particular, how did it go today?   
ADITI ASHOK: It went well. I hit a few bad drives and that costed me on a few holes and I missed a few easy birdie putts. I shot plus five. But yeah, my game is not so bad. It was still there. But I guess I need to work on getting better in the wind and that's what I'm going to do.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT