OLYMPIC GAMES RIO 2016: GOLF
August 17, 2016
Aditi Ashok
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How does it feel to be an Olympian? 
ADITI ASHOK: It feels great. The whole experience, it's not like anything we've ever played before. It's great and I'm so happy that I played well today. I'm not just playing for myself; playing for my country. It means a lot to me and I'm looking forward to the week.

Q. What went particularly well on the course today? 
ADITI ASHOK: My approach shots were pretty good. I gave myself good enough chances on every hole. I did miss a few birdie putts, a few short ones. We just create chances and that's what I did, so that's what was key for me today.

Q. And how were the conditions? 
ADITI ASHOK: I think it got windy on the back nine. Up till then, it was pretty good. It's lovely weather, nice and hot. I would say the conditions were pretty good for scoring.

Q. What's your mentality now for this tournament the next three days?
ADITI ASHOK: Well, I've started well and that was my goal. Now I just want to keep it going, keep the rhythm and build on my first round and through the round just keep giving myself enough chances. And if I make a lot, then that's what I'm going to try. 

Q. Is there big buzz about it in India? 
ADITI ASHOK: Yes, definitely, because I'm the only woman golfer playing. So yeah, it's definitely big in India. I'm so happy that I qualified and able to represent my country. 

Q. What does it mean to you? 
ADITI ASHOK: Well, to me, I've played the Youth Olympics, as well. I've kind of had that experience of playing that, made me want to play in the Olympics, as well. This is my rookie year, getting the experience and playing for India and trying to win a medal for my country doesn't get better than that. 

Q. What would that mean, winning a medal, for golf in India? 
ADITI ASHOK: It would be huge for women's golf in India, because we don't have that many girls playing and this will definitely boost the popularity of the game in India and that's what we need. So I hope I can do that. 

Q. Do you feel the pressure? 
ADITI ASHOK: Not really. I go out and play golf every day, so that's what I have to do, even though it's the Olympics, for me, it's one round of golf at a time. So that's what I'm going to focus on.

Q. How important do you think the Olympics will be for golf in India in general? 
ADITI ASHOK: I think it will be important because India‑‑ golf is new in India. It's not as popular as it was. It's betting popular than it was like five, ten years ago, but it's still not where it should be. Golf becoming an Olympic sport is definitely going to help. We are hopefully going to have more golf courses and kids taking up the sport. 

Q. How nervous were you this morning? 
ADITI ASHOK: The first tee shot was a bit nerve‑wracking for me. But after that, I fell into good rhythm and it was fine. I just fell back on my pre‑shot routine every time and hit good shots and that's it.

Q. Have you done anything else during your time here? 
ADITI ASHOK: No, I just came a couple days before and just played two practice rounds. Haven't been able to do much. But I did see most of the village. That's pretty exciting. So that's all I've done so far. 

Q. Does it feel different, the atmosphere around the tournament? 
ADITI ASHOK: Yes, definitely. You get to mix with a lot of other athletes, not just golfers. And you know, that's a good experience. You get to learn about other sports and what kind of experiences other athletes have. So yeah, it's good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT