CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 24, 2019
Aditi Ashok
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Yeah, I know 17 had to suck.  
ADITI ASHOK: Yeah, it did.   
 Q.  What happened there?  
ADITI ASHOK: Just miss-hit. I was hitting it good all day. Maybe the only one I miss-hit was on 10 and I missed it right; got up and down.   
Guess maybe it was catching up to me. No, it was good. Rest of the day was good. Had an eagle.   
I mean, probably the first time I'm disappointed after shooting minus 6. I think I'm just going to be happy that I started so good and still have a good chance tomorrow.   
 Q.  Absolutely. You're right in the mix. Tell me about the eagle on 14. That's our Aon risk/reward challenge hole.  
ADITI ASHOK: Oh, yeah. Finally I did well on one of those. No, but it was good. I knew it was reachable. I had my hybrid and I kind of tugged it a bit left but the slope brought it right.   
I think in those five holes I was just making everything, so I kind of knew if I just get it to the hole it's probably going to go in. Hit a good putt and went in, so that was good.   
 Q.  Got to be a good feeling to be in contention going into Sunday.  
ADITI ASHOK: Yeah, it is. I mean, it was good to be probably right up there all the through the back nine, and probably the first time I've been so high up. The only other time -- my best finish was Texas, but that was kind of weird because it was two rounds and everyone had finished.   
It's good to be playing in the mix, and I'm looking forward to tomorrow.   
 Q.  Does that help you with your adrenaline?  
ADITI ASHOK: Yeah, it does actually. It's not that I was watching the scores a lot, but I knew was getting close and I just try to make more birdies and it kind of worked for me.   
Yeah, it's been good.   
 Q.  Jessica was having a good round as well.  
ADITI ASHOK: Yeah.   
 Q.  Were you guys feeding off each other?  
ADITI ASHOK: Exactly, feeding off each other. I mean, she hits it so far so I was kind of demoralized the whole day, but it was good. It was fun to hole some putts.   
 Q.  You weren't demoralized that badly. You shot 6-under.  
ADITI ASHOK: No, it was good. It was good. I played with her like five, six times now and she's always pleasure to play with.   
 Q.  Talk about the crowds here. Been a great week.  
ADITI ASHOK: Yeah, it's been great and I think there are a lot of Indians in Canada too. I saw a few of them out supporting me, which has been good. You can tell they just love golf here. It's always fun coming back.   
 Q.  What's the game plan heading into the final round?  
ADITI ASHOK: Not much. Just probably hit some balls, maybe play some table tennis. Get my mind off things and just, yeah, eat some Indian for dinner. That's the plan.   
 Q.  Any good recommendations?  
ADITI ASHOK: There is one right by the hotel actually. I mean, couple. There are a lot. Just walk and find one.   
 Q.  Does it make you feel comfortable to have what you like around?  
ADITI ASHOK: Exactly, yeah. After all the travel I'm trying to get close to home eating the Indian food. Yeah.   
 Q.  When do you get to head home next?  
ADITI ASHOK: After Portland.   
 Q.  How long has it been?  
ADITI ASHOK: Kingsmill to Portland.   
 Q.  Wow.  
ADITI ASHOK: I haven't played every week but been out from Kingsmill.   
 Q.  What are your plans for that stretch during Solheim?  
ADITI ASHOK: Watching the Solheim. That's going to be interesting. I always watch it, so that's fun. Yeah, not much. Just relax; maybe get some practice in.   
 Q.  I got to ask, I know Team USA isn't named yet, but who you got, Team USA or Team Europe?  
ADITI ASHOK: I this year is going to be a really tough one because Europe has a good team. I don't know. I can't pick. I mean, I'm really excited to watch because both teams are really good. I can't tell.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT