KIA CLASSIC
March 25, 2018
Aditi Ashok
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What a great closing round.  7-under to finish here.  What was the key to your round, and in particular on the back nine?
ADITI ASHOK: I think yesterday and today I kind of hit it really well.  I would say I hit it equally good.  Yesterday I missed a lot of birdie putts and couple par putts as well; whereas today I just holed everything.
I focused on hitting a lot of greens today.  I felt like it was a final day, and if I could make birdies that was fine, but I didn't want to lose shots.  I just came out with one bogey.
Q. You didn't play this event last year, so this course was new to you this week?
ADITI ASHOK: Yeah.
Q. Did you just like the setup from the word go?
ADITI ASHOK: Yeah, I love the setup.  To be honest, I'm a big fan of Arnold Palmer's courses as well.  I played the Monday qualifying last year, so I did get one round in.
But, yeah, I just like the setup.  Obviously it's a course where if you putt well you score.  If you hit long it's not much of an advantage.  You just have to plan and play good.
Q. Your game seems to be trending in the right direction with a good performance last week and even better this week, and obviously finishing today.
ADITI ASHOK: Yeah, that's obviously been good.  Hopefully with this I get into next week.  It's my birthday next week, so it would be amazing to be at ANA during my birthday week.
But, yeah, just been building confidence.  I came off the off-season and I missed a cut in Australia, so to just have two good finishes in Arizona and this week is big.
Q. You mentioned the ANA, the first major of the year.  You played there last year.  You played pretty well at Rancho Mirage.
ADITI ASHOK: Yeah.
Q. So how important would it be for you to carry this great form into Mission Hills?
ADITI ASHOK: I think my game is in a really good place getting into the ANA.  Obviously it's unfortunate that I wasn't already in.  I missed it on the Money List last year by a few spots.
If I'm there, I'm sure my game is ready and I'm looking forward to it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT