CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 16, 2017
Aditi Ashok
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk to me about your round today.  Thoughts and feelings and how you assess it.  
ADITI ASHOK: Oh, it was good.  I just made two birdies, one bogey.  The rest was pretty consistent.  Hopefully I can make more birdies tomorrow.   
 Q.  What did you think about the course conditions out here today?  
ADITI ASHOK: They were pretty good.  I think couple par-5s and couple par 4s were set up shorter, so that was kind of easy.  But I didn't capitalize as much on those.  I think the greens are really good.  I like the greens on this golf course, yeah.   
 Q.  What are your goals and expectations here playing in your first tour championship?  
ADITI ASHOK: Yeah, I was just so happy as a rookie to make it to the tour championship.  I think I missed quite a few of the Asia swing events, so I was not sure if I would get in.  I was so happy to get in on Monday, and happy to be here.   
Obviously trying to finish the best I can so have better status for next year.   
 Q.  Do you feel that's a nice little goal that you've hit in reaching the tour championship?  
ADITI ASHOK: Yeah, definitely.  Obviously I would like to have had a better season, but I still think making it to this stage is really good.   
Hopefully next year I can do better.   
 Q.  Where do you go from here?  
ADITI ASHOK: Home, just home.   
 Q.  What do you think about the travel, being Asia for the last month or so, coming to Florida just to go back home?  
ADITI ASHOK: It's okay.  You have to do it.  Just getting to play in this event was bigger than the jet lag.  I'm enjoying it.  I was fine.  I came on Tuesday evening so I've had a couple days.  I'm good now.   
 Q.  Leading into the season finale, general thoughts about your first season on the LPGA.  How would you sum it up?  
ADITI ASHOK: I think I've done okay.  Obviously I missed a few cuts, especially at the majors, which I wish I hadn't.  I would've had more events in the Asia swing, and that's the most important part of the season.   
But I still think I did okay considering I had conditional status and I played only three out of first eight or ten events.   
Considering that I did pretty good.  I'll have better status for next year.  I've seen most of the courses so I can plan it better for next year.   
 Q.  Right.  Now that you've had a year under your belt, what do you see that you need to improve on between end of this weekend and start of next year?  
ADITI ASHOK: Nothing in particular.  Just my whole game overall.  Here it' one shot is almost 20 -- sometimes it's 15 to 30 girls at one shot, so just tightening up every part of my game, nothing in particular.   
In long-term I would say to gain more distance with my driver, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT