SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 18, 2017
Aditi Ashok
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So first off, you found out you were playing, what, Tuesday?  
ADITI ASHOK: Sunday evening.  But then because we couldn't book a flight Sunday night, and the flights from India are only overnight to like the east.   
So we had to get a flight Monday night; wasted a whole day, and then go out here yesterday afternoon and just went to the party at night.   
 Q.  Is this the closest before a tournament you've ever found out you got in?  
ADITI ASHOK: Yeah, definitely the closest.   
 Q.  What was that whole experience like?  I would imagine it's a whirlwind.  
ADITI ASHOK: Yeah, pretty much, and I was -- before this, the only Asia Swing event I was into was the one that got cancelled.   
So I'm just happy that I finally got one because I thought I wasn't going to get any Asia Swing events, but now I got this one.  I also got an invite to Malaysia, which was pretty cool and I'm excited about that, because I've played on that course a couple times before.   
Yeah, it's been good from like no events to a couple LPGA events.  It's always good to play more.  I was not so happy with my season sort of finishing up in New Zealand.  But I'm getting a couple more events in, and maybe I can still make the CME.   
 Q.  Maybe not the way you wanted to end up, but tell me about your rookie year in general.  Has it been what you expected?  What's it been like?  
ADITI ASHOK: It's different.  Obviously I travelled a lot more this year compared to last year.  A lot of it was, you know, just weeks in a row.  So I was out for almost 14 weeks during the summer, which was new, because I've never been away for that long.   
Yeah, it's been a different experience, just playing so many events, traveling.  And I got to play in all five majors this year, which was a pretty cool experience, also.   
Yeah, definitely -- I didn't perform as well as I wanted, but I'm sure next year is going to be much easier.   
 Q.  I would think it's definitely a learning experience.  
ADITI ASHOK: Yeah, definitely.  And being so far from India; the travel part is tough, but also getting used to each week.  You don't realize how tiring it can be sometimes.  Every course is pretty much a new course, but I don't mind that part, but just the travel sometimes.   
And because I had a conditional card, I had to play in everything I got into because I missed the first four events.  I missed Founders, Kia, Texas -- Dallas.  So I just felt like I wanted to play in everything.  But yeah, I had to do that but maybe I should have taken a couple off, but whatever.   
 Q.  So is maybe one of your big takeaways learning how to pace yourself?  
ADITI ASHOK: Yeah, not just the whole year, but even during the week.  Just learning how much I want to practice and if I want to play two rounds, and based on the Pro-Am; just so the four days, I have all my energy for all four days, because that's the important part of the week.   
 Q.  Now I know something big on your schedule coming up is the Hero Women's Indian Open.  
ADITI ASHOK: Yes.   
 Q.  That had to be such an experience last year.  
ADITI ASHOK: Yeah, it was so cool to win the Indian Open last year, especially being Indian and they have had the tournament for ten years now.  To finally have an Indian girl win, as opposed to the men's side, where they have had a couple Indian guys winning it.  That was cool, and it will be nice to go and defend.   
Yeah, it's fun.  Looking forward to it.   
 Q.  What is your reception like in India?  Is it still as exciting as it always has been?  
ADITI ASHOK: Maybe not so much now.  It was definitely big after the Olympics and then big after I qualified for the LPGA, but now not so much because I'm playing and traveling on the LPGA every single week.   
Obviously it's still big because I'm the only female from India playing.  But I'm sure it will get bigger if I do better on the LPGA, too, like I did in Europe.   
 Q.  I know we saw that in the first stage of Q-School, there were more Indian players than we've ever had.  
ADITI ASHOK: Yeah, that's true, and even in Europe, I think there are five girls with stages, compared to last year where there was just me.  So that's good.   
You know, there's always been women's golf in India but it's never come out like the men's.  So hopefully there will be more girls trying to play internationally, and eventually, when everyone does that, there might be more girls playing on Tour.   
 Q.  And they will all look back to Aditi as the person who started it.  
ADITI ASHOK: I don't think of it that way because I still feel I'm young and I have so much more golf to play.   
But yeah, if it's because of me, then it's just one more thing that happened because I'm playing golf, so that's nice.   
 Q.  How do you plan for a day like today with this crazy weather; a week like this, that you've already had.  
ADITI ASHOK: Yeah, I've been to Taiwan a few times in my amateur career, and it's always been like this.  It usually rains in the morning and then sometimes there's even been like fog delays.   
It's not so bad, and it's still not a tournament round.  I'm just going to practice as much as I can and maybe try and walk the course if the weather gets better; if it's sunny enough.   
 Q.  Do you have your waterproofs with you?  
ADITI ASHOK: Yeah, I do.  The other dilemma is it's too hot to wear the waterproofs, so what do you do?   
 Q.  And you're not dry under them because you sweat.  
ADITI ASHOK: Yeah, umbrella is good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT