CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
September 1, 2017
Aditi Ashok
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Birdied your last hole.  How far was that, and how good was it to finish on a high note?  
ADITI ASHOK: Yeah, it was like a 30th-footer.  I was hitting it good all day.  Not really close, but I gave myself enough chances and they were just not going in, especially in the middle part of the round.  Basically I hit it further away and I holed it, so that worked out good.   
Yeah, I'm happy with my first two days.   
 Q.  How was the course playing differently and was it difficult to adjust from yesterday?  
ADITI ASHOK: Yeah, I think yesterday was playing much shorter for me.  Today was probably maybe half a club longer; maybe one whole club on a few holes.   
So that was difficult to adjust to.  I still think I did okay.  For a morning round I still came out couple under, so that's good.   
 Q.  Does this course set up well for you to succeed do you think?  
ADITI ASHOK: Yeah, I think so because it's not very long but it's narrow.  I'm usually pretty accurate, so that -- even though it's tight it still suits me.   
I think the greens are going to get quicker and I like fast greens.  Obviously they're not the fastest we play, but still it's better than having them slower.   
 Q.  How does it feel to be near the to be of the leaderboard heading into the weekend?  
ADITI ASHOK: Yeah, it's good.  I've played sort of good all season.  Not the last four, five events.  Had one top 10 but missed a couple cuts as well.   
I've been playing good all season.  Just not really close to the top.  So, yeah, being good after two days is really important, because you kind of have to keep in touch with the top the leaderboard through the event if you want to stay out on top.   
Sometimes you might thing you're close enough, but on the final day just 20, 30 girls are all at the same score and it's tough to have to a good finish.   
Hopefully in the top 10 by the end of today and see how it goes the next two days.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT