MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 10, 2011
Yanina Wickmayer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. STOSUR/Y. Wickmayer
  7-5, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. You came in in good form after Auckland. What did you expect of the match today?  
 YANINA WICKMAYER: Well, I played Sam a few times; she's a great player. She had a wonderful year last year. I knew it was going to be tough today, which it was. She played very well. I had some difficulties with her serve. She served really well today, so...   
 But I'm quite happy about my match. I was pretty aggressive and played my game. She played better than me today.   
  
  Q. How does it lead leave your preparation for the Australian Open next week?  
 YANINA WICKMAYER: Yeah, I'm happy. I had a good week last week; I had a good matches and a good match today against a top 10 player, so I'm quite happy about my preparation.  
 I have another week to prepare well for the Australian Open, so I'm going to stay here a couple days and practice and then go to Melbourne and get ready.  
  
  Q. Do you think Sam is good enough to win here?  
 YANINA WICKMAYER: Well, she has a long way to go still. I think she's capable of beating a lot of good players. She proved that in the past. She definitely can win a tournament like this, but it's still a few matches.   
 Everyone is tough to play here. It's a tough tournament and a tough draw, so we'll see.  
  
  Q. You said you played her a few times. Did you see anything different about her game today after the off-season?  
 YANINA WICKMAYER: No, not really. She serves well and has a big forehand and tries to look for that forehand and tries to hit it after that serve. So I tried to put enough pressure on the serve. She just served well, so I wasn't able to break her serve today.   
 But still, I'm quite happy about my game. Nothing to say about that.   
  
  Q. Seemed like it was a bit of an arm wrestle for most of the match. There were two periods where she kind of got on top. Did you feel she went up another level?   
 YANINA WICKMAYER: Well, the first set I think my service game was just two or three mistakes which I shouldn't have made, but I just tried to be really aggressive on the third ball and I missed two of them.  
 But I can't say I did something wrong. I just missed two or three shots which made the difference. Second set, same thing. But, I mean, I can't say I did the wrong things. I did the right things, but just made a mistake on a bad moment. I did the right things, and that's the important thing.  So I tried to work on a lot of things in the off-season. Every match I see myself doing the things that I worked on, so that's good.  
  
  Q. Have you set yourself a goal for the Australian Open?  
 YANINA WICKMAYER: Yeah, well, I had a really good run last year, so I'm going to be happy to be back and playing that tournament again. It's exciting. It's one of the four; it's the first one of the year. I think everyone is really excited to go there, and just going to try and keep this level up and try to play well.   
  
  Q. What did you work on in the off-season?   
 YANINA WICKMAYER: A bit of everything, I think. I'm still young, so I still have a lot to work on and a lot of shots I can still improve a lot. So I guess a bit on everything.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT