SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 25, 2010
Yanina Wickmayer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Y. WICKMAYER/E. Baltacha
  6-1, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Congratulations. Great match.   
 YANINA WICKMAYER: Thanks.  
  
  Q. Do you usually have that much energy?  
 YANINA WICKMAYER: Most of the time. I try to.   
  
  Q. At the end there she was getting frustrated, obviously. Can you talk about that?  
 YANINA WICKMAYER: Um, well, I guess I was just playing really aggressive and not really giving her the chance to play her game.   
 I think that was kind of the reason I think why she got frustrated. I guess I just played a really good match. I put a lot of pressure on her from the beginning and stayed really aggressive.   
 I served well, mixed my serves up, and really tried to be aggressive on her serve. I put a lot of pressure on her serve. That's why she started missing those first serves, and I guess I just played better today.  
  
  Q. Also congratulations on I guess Most Improved Player. Can you talk about your reaction to that and why you think you deserve that and what it's like?  
 YANINA WICKMAYER: Well, I think, yeah, last year I just improved a lot. Not only ranking-wise, but I think my game and my mentality, my focus, and my mentality on court just gotten a lot better.  
 I guess that's why I won it, so I'm really excited. It's a really special prize, something that not everyone wins, so I guess it's a big honor for me to win it. I'm really happy with it.  
  
  Q. How did you improve your focus?  
 YANINA WICKMAYER: Um, well, I guess by playing a lot of matches and by getting some more experience and just, yeah, practicing a lot and trying to get better every day.  
  
  Q. Was it tough going through what you did? I guess the last year or whatever it was with the drug stuff, was it even tougher to remain focused? Can you talk about that whole period?  
 YANINA WICKMAYER: Well, yeah, I guess it was a tough period. I can't say it was easy for me.   
 I just try to focus on my year last year and just try to keep practicing and keep my head up and just stay positive.   
 I just, yeah, kept practicing. I knew that some day I would play again. Only thing I could do is make sure I was ready for that day, and I was.   
 I kept practicing and kept believing in myself. I was ready for the day I could play again.   
  
  Q. Do you feel like that's behind you? What happens next in that process?  
 YANINA WICKMAYER: I have no idea what's next. I have no idea what's gonna happen with that.   
  
  Q. Here in Miami, how far do you think you can go? What are your goals here? Goals for the year?   
 YANINA WICKMAYER: I don't know. My goal for the year is definitely reach the top 10 this year. For Miami, well, I guess I play Martic next. I lost to her in Paris, so that's gonna be a tough one for me.   
 She plays really tough game for me. She mixes it up a lot, serves well. She's a young player also coming up. She beat a really good player today, so I guess she's playing well and she's in confidence.   
 She's winning a lot more matches on this level. Yeah, it's gonna be a tough match for me, and I will look at it match by match and I will see where it ends.  
  
  Q. Also, your mother, I guess, died when you were a young girl, nine. Did you start playing tennis after that? I mean, did she have anything to do with that? Did she ever play, or...   
 YANINA WICKMAYER: No, she never played. I just started playing when she got sick just to get out of the house and change my mind a little bit.  
  
  Q. I just want to know about your dad a little bit. Is he your coach? Is he with you here today?  
 YANINA WICKMAYER: He's always with me. He's not my coach.   
  
  Q. How does it help having dad with you?  
 YANINA WICKMAYER: He's a big part of my life. He's always been there since then. I guess he's one of the most important person in my life. I'm really happy he's there for me.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT