BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 13, 2010
Yanina Wickmayer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Y. WICKMAYER/J. Goerges
  6-2, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Second set you went down 1-4. What did you need to shift in order to suddenly win the next five games and take that second set?
 YANINA WICKMAYER: I think she started off really well the second set. She was really making a lot of winners and really putting a lot of pressure on me. I know it could change any minute. I know I was playing really well, but she was just taking over.
 So I just stayed tough and tried to make her work for the points and make her run a little bit more than I did in the beginning of the second set.
 Yeah, I started returning really well, and, yeah, started just hanging in there a little bit more, making her play a little bit more tough shots. Started serving a little bit better in than in the beginning of the second set.

 Q. You had some great runs, US Open obviously, you gave Justine quite a challenge at the Australia Open. What do you take away from your performances at the Slams?
 YANINA WICKMAYER: Well, they give me a lot of experience. That's the most important thing, I guess. I've played a lot of great matches, a lot of tough matches, and a lot of three-setters that really helped me stay mentally tough. 
 And so those experience really helped me in the other matches. Today also I think those experiences really helped me staying calm at 4-1, hanging tough, hanging in there, staying focused, and make her work. 
 I think those experiences all helped me out on the difficult moments.

 Q. You're quite tall and you have a very high service toss. How much of an advantage does your height and your toss give you on the serve, if any?
 YANINA WICKMAYER: Um, I think all the tall girls have a little advantage on serving from a higher point than the smaller girls do. But I think there are a lot of smaller girls that serve really well, too. 
 I think the other girls can serve very good, too, but I guess if you see Sharapova and Venus and all those tall girls, I think they all serve really well. I guess it's just a better timing serving from higher.

 Q. Have you looked ahead to the draw? And how do you feel about, you know, the upcoming match?
 YANINA WICKMAYER: Well, I know now because I won my match. I know I'm playing probably Hantuchova. She beat Vinci. I lost to her here last year second round; had match point, so I have good memories of that match. Played really well. 
 I played her twice before, lost two times, but always had a really good match. So, yeah, I'm really looking forward to my next match. I'm playing well, I'm getting confident again, so I'm happy to win another match.
 And, yeah, let's just not look too much ahead. Let's just focus on practicing well tomorrow and playing a good match against Daniela.

 Q. When we saw you last year making that run at the Open, your serve really, I thought, picked up and was really the foundation of your game. What have you been doing in the offseason, and did what you had to go through in the offseason, did that affect your training or you preparation or anything at all?
 YANINA WICKMAYER: Um, well, it was a tough offseason for me. I went through a lot. But I just kept working hard and kept practicing, so maybe it disturbed my practicing a little bit. But I kept on working hard.
 Yeah, I mean, I've been progressing a lot of shots and been working on a lot of stuff. So, yeah, I've been playing well. I started off the year really well and then got sick a little bit and played a few less matches. 
 But, um, yeah, I'm feeling like I'm getting better every day. That I'm feeling good again. Let's hope I can win some matches and get confident again. And, um, yeah, I mean, I'm feeling well on court, so let's just focus on that.

 Q. Did you train in Florida or in Belgium?
 YANINA WICKMAYER: I practiced in Belgium, yeah. 

 Q. Speaking about what you've gone through in the offseason, do you have an update on what's going on with the ITF?
 YANINA WICKMAYER: No, not really. It has nothing to do with the ITF, though. It's not the ITF, uh-uh.

 Q. Obviously you're dealing with it, but it doesn't seem to have phased you. How do you put that aside to focus on the tennis?
 YANINA WICKMAYER: Well, I know in my mind what happened. I didn't do anything wrong. I know in my mind why this all happened, and so I know I'm just a tennis player. I know how hard I work every day to work to be where I am. I think that's the most important point. 
 Every time I am on court, I'm happy and trying to do the best I can. That's what I do every day. That's what I like to do. I'm trying to focus on that and just enjoy playing, being on court, and enjoy playing my matches. 
 That's the way it's been going till now, so I'm just trying to keep doing that and we'll see what happens with the rest. 

 Q. Even though you're a young person, you have had a lot of challenging life experiences, not only the whole thing with the federation, but your mom and all that. How do you stay positive and inspired and motivated?
 YANINA WICKMAYER: Well, yeah, certain things happen in life. It's not only my life that has been difficult. I know there are a lot of people that have difficult lives.
 I mean, that's the way life goes. There are positive things and negative things in life, and I think it's just the way you handle all that.
 I'm just trying to be positive, because I know I have a lot of good things still going in my life. I have an awesome dad, and I have an awesome family. So I have good things in my life, too. 
 I just try to stay positive and try to look at the good things in life and just try to make my mom proud and just be a good girl every day. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT