AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2010
Yanina Wickmayer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Y. WICKMAYER/F. Pennetta
  7-6, 6-1

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. After the ban you had overturned at the end of last year, do you feel like you've been sort of unfairly stained by what was associated with you and your name?
 YANINA WICKMAYER: Well, yeah, I think maybe. I think, uhm, everything was a bit unfair. 
 But it happened and I had to deal with it. So I think the only way I could deal with it is start practicing again and try to be strong on court and play good on court. I think I did a good job doing it. 

 Q. Did you feel like you had a point to prove, given that the tournament organizers wouldn't give you a wild card, they made you play qualifiers?
 YANINA WICKMAYER: No, not really. I don't think I have to prove to anyone anything. 
 But I think it's good for myself to prove myself I'm worth being in main draw and winning matches in main draw. That's the main thing. I'm really glad the way I handled the quallies, how strong I was on court. Yeah, I'm really happy the way I'm playing now. I'm really glad about my two matches already. 
 No, I don't feel any revenge to anyone. 

 Q. Why did you improve so much last year? 
 YANINA WICKMAYER: Well, I think I kept working really hard during practices. I kept trying to improve every week, try to do better. I think mentally and physically I've just made the difference last year. I hope I can keep that up. 

 Q. The comeback of Clijsters and Henin, what is your relationship with them? 
 YANINA WICKMAYER: Well, I know Kim pretty well. I'm really happy, yeah, to see her playing again 'cause I wasn't really on tour yet when she was No. 1 in the world. So I didn't really had the chance to see her play. So I'm really happy to get the chance to share some moments with her and to see her play matches. 
 Justine, I don't have -- I'm not really close to her, so I don't talk to her a lot. But Kim I know pretty well. It's great to have her back. 

 Q. You played Flavia in Auckland a few weeks back. Tell us the difference between that match and this match. 
 YANINA WICKMAYER: Well, I think in the first set I made a few mistakes. I didn't serve really well the first set. I broke her a few times, got broken again. I think I just played almost a perfect match in Auckland, which, yeah, you don't play the perfect match every day, every week. 
 So, yeah, I played really well today. I played a very good second set and I played a really good tiebreak. I think that was important today. 
 But I'm really glad to beat her because she's a great player. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT