WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP WOMEN'S OPEN
August 11, 2009
Yanina Wickmayer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Y. WICKMAYER/F. Schiavone
  6-3, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Congratulations on your win. You came through qualifying to get into the tournament. Did you feel in the first round match that you had something to prove and you wanted to show people, Hey, you know, I earned my way here and I want to show what my game is like?
 YANINA WICKMAYER: No, I just went out there today, and, yeah, I knew I had a chance. I beated [sic] her in s'Hertogenbosch, so I played her already. 
 I think my advantage today was I had a few matches in my legs already. The weather and the circumstances are not that easy. 
 So, yeah, I guess this was her first match, and I played really aggressive and started playing well from the beginning. I guess, yeah, I went through quallies so it's tough, but once you get into the main draw I guess you have a little advantage on the other players.

 Q. Looking ahead at your next match, you play Elena. I haven't looked, but have you played her?
 YANINA WICKMAYER: No.

 Q. What are you expecting out that match. 
 YANINA WICKMAYER: I don't expect a lot, actually. I'm just gonna go out there and do my thing and play game and we'll see. I have nothing to prove anymore and nothing to lose tomorrow. She's the one that has to win that match. Just gonna go out there and do my thing fight for what's worth it.

 Q. You're playing doubles with Kim. 
 YANINA WICKMAYER: Uh-huh.

 Q. Do you have a chance to practice with her, or do you just kind of meet on the court?
 YANINA WICKMAYER: We haven't had a chance to practice yet. I played my matches every day, and she had played yesterday late so she was having a rest during the day. Actually we haven't had the chance. 
 I guess we'll go out there today and play and see we'll what's gonna happen. We'll, yeah, try to figure out a way to win our first match. I hope we can maybe warm-up together tomorrow or maybe hit tomorrow. We'll see.

 Q. Are you guys friends off the court? 
 YANINA WICKMAYER: Yeah, I guess we're friends. We don't have any problems with each other. No, I practice with her a few times when I came here. 
 But, yeah, she's new for me. I mean, I haven't met her on tour yet. By the time she was playing I wasn't there yet. It's the first tournament we're gonna play together even singles and doubles. Yeah, we'll see. 

 Q. Your fingernails are every other color. Is that something you do for fun or superstition?
 YANINA WICKMAYER: Well, actually I was pretty bored two days ago, so I guess just came into my mind to do my nails. Sometimes I do them. I guess, yeah, it's kind of in the color of my clothes. I was just bord. We have to do something to pass our time, right? 

 Q. Maybe you saw Serena. She had yellow ones. 
 YANINA WICKMAYER: Yeah, I saw hers, but I saw different colors. I just thought, let's go for it. Blue and pink. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT