ROLAND GARROS
May 27, 2014
Yanina Wickmayer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Y, WICKMAYER/C. Wozniacki
      7‑6, 4‑6, 6‑2

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French, please. 

Q.   I imagine you're feeling much better.   It's like sunshine in a very difficult year.   How did you experience this today?
    YANINA WICKMAYER:   Well, it was very positive.   It was a tough match obviously, but playing Caroline is never easy.   She bounces back many balls.   It's not easy to win points, and I had to fight on every point.
    I made some unforced errors.   In the second set I had some opportunities that I missed, many on her serve.   But I stayed in the match and I remained positive. 
    I continued believing in it and fought on every single point.   It's nothing but pure happiness.

Q.   Do you think that's what made the difference, is you were aggressive and combative? 
    YANINA WICKMAYER:   I don't know, but I was fighting for every point.   I was in the match.   I fought for every point. 
    As I said, there were some more difficult times.   I wasn't playing so well and I made some stupid mistakes, but I knew it was going to be a tough match. 
    Before the match I thought that maybe if I played in an aggressive way I was going to make mistakes, but I accepted that and I continued doing what I had to do.   When it mattered, I was there. 

Q.   The fact that Kim was there in the corner, was that meaningful? 
    YANINA WICKMAYER:   Yes, of course.   The whole box was present, and it was exceptional, to give me strength in difficult times.
    In order to win this match, the fact that they were there was very important.

Q.   Did you talk to her before the match?   Did she give you any advice, tips? 
    YANINA WICKMAYER:   Well, we met before the match with Carl and Eric.   They talked about me, the fact that I had to play my own tennis and I had to be aggressive, I had to be confident, and that is what mattered. 
    I know her very well.   I've played her many times.   There were no secrets.   They thought I had to be confident and be in the match, and that's what I did.

Q.   You remember the last time that you had so much fun on the court?
    YANINA WICKMAYER:   I always have fun.   Obviously it's always nice to win.   It was a good match.   It was very tight match.   Every point and rally was long.   It was not easy to place a winning ball.   It was tough.
    But those are matches you're happy about that. 

Q.   Can you say something about your next opponent?   Do you know who you're going to play?
    YANINA WICKMAYER:   Yes, I know.   I've never played her.   I've never even practiced with her, so I don't know her well.   Carl went to watch her match today.   We'll see. 

Q.   She's just played in the final in Strasbourg.   She's Spanish, so you think she's a clay‑court player?
    YANINA WICKMAYER:   Of course.   It's going to be different from today.   I think she's going to put a lot of spin on her balls, especially forehands.   And for the rest, I don't know her very well.
    But Carl went and watched her play.   I'm probably going to play in the doubles as well tomorrow, so I'll try and combine the doubles with a practice in order to prepare for the match.

Q.   Who do you play with in the doubles? 
    YANINA WICKMAYER:   Puig. 

Q.   She's the one who defeated Silvia Soler‑Espinosa.   Maybe she can help you. 
    YANINA WICKMAYER:   Well, maybe, yes. 

Q.   A few days ago you expressed a few doubts regarding your self‑confidence.   We didn't see any of that today.   You seem to be very confident. 
    YANINA WICKMAYER:   Yes, I was feeling well.   Sometimes I had a few doubts.   I mean, that's normal.   I made errors and it wasn't easy.   She came back in the second set.
    As I said, I continued believing in it.   Even when it was difficult, I just did what I had to do.   This is what I have to keep doing.   There are difficult times in a match and times you don't play so well and you start having doubts.   Maybe the other one is coming up or playing better.
    But that's when you have to be strong.   That's precisely when you win the match, by being strong in difficult moments. 

Q.   Caroline has been No. 1; you played her today.   Do you feel that in some compartments of her game she's not as strong as she was when she was No. 1?   How would you tell?   Is there anything the opponent can take advantage of in her game?
    YANINA WICKMAYER:   I don't know.   You should ask her the question.   I suppose we all have times when we play our best tennis and times when we don't.   It happens to everyone.   We all have those times.   Maybe she's trying to be more aggressive. 
    But I don't think that I'm supposed to answer this question. 

Q.   Everybody has personal problems.   She had personal problems.   It was tough for her.   Did you think about that before the match, that she was suffering?   Is there anything you would like to say to her? 
    YANINA WICKMAYER:   No.   I mean, we all live difficult times with the boyfriend or when somebody dies or when you have personal issues.   We all have our personal issues.   Everybody is aware of it because they're a famous couple, but there are other players who have very personal problems. 
    I think she's strong.   She's going to recover.   She's been through a lot.   She was No. 1 for a while, so I think she'll get over it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT