DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN
February 16, 2011
Yanina Wickmayer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. LI/Y. Wickmayer
  7-6, 6-7, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Pretty good effort.   
 YANINA WICKMAYER: Yeah, it was a tough match. I know she's a great player. She played the finals in Australian Open, won Sydney, so she's a great athlete.  
 The last time I played her was 7-6 in the third, so I knew it was going to be tough. She had four match points in a row, so not easy to come back from that one. But I kept fighting, kept playing well, and I guess I just stayed aggressive and kept positive.  
  
  Q. Have you ever saved four match points before in a match?  
 YANINA WICKMAYER: I know I saved three against Radwanska in Fed Cup. But, um, four in a row, I don't think so.  
  
  Q. What were you thinking four match points down?  
 YANINA WICKMAYER: Yeah, well, I wasn't playing bad. Actually, the second set I think we both played really well. We had some good rallies; both served well.  
 I think I just made a few mistakes by trying to be aggressive. So I know I was playing well. It was just a couple balls more into the court and just went for my shots, stayed aggressive, and tried to stay positive, tried to stay in there.   
  
  Q. At the start of the third set as well, obviously she's going to you be on a bit of a downer having lost that out on four match points. Did you think to yourself if you really put the hammer down there it would be over, she would perhaps crumple away?  
 YANINA WICKMAYER: It's always tough to start a set when you know you had four match points, so I knew I had to start really aggressive in the third set and try to put a lot of pressure on her.   
 I know I been there before. Also had match point in the second set and didn't make it. Every bad error that you make or every point that's not going the way want to it to, you keep thinking back on those four match points.   
 So I was just trying to be really aggressive and not make too many mistakes and make her work for the shots. I guess when I had that break, I knew I just had to keep going and do what I was doing before.   
  
  Q. Tomorrow you'll be playing Shahar Peer. Talk about that.   
 YANINA WICKMAYER: Yeah, well, she's another tough opponent. Played her a couple times. Won a few times; lost a few times. She's tough opponent, too. She's a big fighter, so it won't be easy.  
 But, I mean, not thinking about tomorrow yet. It's been a really big one for me today, and I'll think about tomorrow when I wake up tomorrow.  
  
  Q. What would you say the difference from the first and the final two sets for you were? What was the key to winning it? You guys were tight.   
 YANINA WICKMAYER: Well, center court is a bit slower than the other courts, so especially on the returns I think everyone saw it was tough finding a rhythm. We both made a lot mistakes in the first set.  
 Once we found our rhythm in the second set, we were both playing really well. We played some really good rallies. It was tough changing a little bit. The pace was a bit different. But once we both found our rhythm, it was a good match.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT