MLB WORLD SERIES: MARLINS v YANKEES
October 18, 2003
Juan Pierre
Dontrelle Willis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Dontrelle, when you came in to pitch, Jack appeared to say something like 8, 10, 12 seconds before he left the mound.  Do you recall what his message was, what he was trying to get across? 

DONTRELLE WILLIS:  Basically go out there, try to throw strikes.  Try to get a hit and go from there. 

Q.  Dontrelle, I brought up the question today, except for the game, the first game with the Giants where you got beat - not you, but the team got beat - it seems that every start since then, the pitcher has a rough experience.  Are we seeing the staff maturing before our eyes as we go along in the postseason simply because, to a man, you've pitched better a second time around? 

DONTRELLE WILLIS:  I guess so.  I'm just going out there, just throwing the ball, you know.  I don't think it's that deep into detail.  I'm just trying to go out there and just have fun and go out there and try to get people out and that's it. 

Q.  Dontrelle, tonight you just pitched exclusively from the stretch.  How was that different? 

DONTRELLE WILLIS:  I warmed up in the stretch so I just  -- Rosenthal talked to me about deciding to stay in the stretch because I warmed up and I came in the game in the stretch.  It was all about timing.  I was able to stay in the rhythm. 

Q.  Dontrelle, could you explain why you were able to keep your fastball down so often tonight?  Had you been working on that?  Just what was the key to just keeping the ball down throughout the outing? 

DONTRELLE WILLIS:  Like you said, keeping the ball down.  Great Yankee hitters, they're aggressive.  They don't miss much.  So you have to just emphasize having every pitch down and just going from there. 

Q.  Juan, I just want to ask you about your bunt.  Is that part of your game plan, to come in here and bunt and surprise element there? 

JUAN PIERRE:  Probably not necessarily a surprise element.  But knowing an American League, the series they play with Oakland and Red Sox, there aren't too many guys bunting over there.  Just to put them uneasy, that's my job, to create a little havoc.  With the bunt, I think they weren't as comfortable the rest of the game.  I know the next time up, Torre was yelling, "Move up, move up."  Another guy moved over.  It was already in their head with the bunt.  It just opens up the whole field for me.  I think it accomplished what I wanted to do tonight as far as getting on and creating havoc. 

Q.  I got the sense that your fastball really had  -- you'd really recaptured the life on your fastball than in your start in Chicago.  Is that so? 

DONTRELLE WILLIS:  Actually, to me, I feel the same.  I think it's more just location.  Just trying to hit your spots and what have you.  If you don't, they're gonna make you pay, so... I think I was able to hit my spots a little better today. 

Q.  Juan, will you talk about the way the team makes very few mistakes out there defensively and how you guys just seem to make the most out of the little things that you do out there?

JUAN PIERRE:  Well, you want me to talk about it? 

Q.  Yeah.  Can you tell us, is this a consistent thing that's been a trend throughout this three-month period of good baseball for you? 

JUAN PIERRE:  Yeah, I think we been playing  -- that's the start, with good pitching.  We started getting good pitching.  The pitchers have confidence in our defense, that we gonna make plays.  Takes a lot of pressure off them if they do make a mistake, that we got guys that can make plays behind them.  We got the equalizer behind the plate in Pudge where guys can't get their regular secondaries, maybe not scoring balls they should score on, turning double plays that way.  Some we been doing all year, like I said.  It's just taking notice because we're in the postseason now.  That's why it's a fun team, because we haven't changed one bit.  With all the attention we're getting now, we're still playing the same ball we played basically in May. 

Q.  Juan, both Jack McKeon and Pudge Rodriguez were talking about your ability to hit with runners on base.  I was wondering if a guy who doesn't strike out a lot and just puts the ball in play does anything different than he normally does in those situations? 

JUAN PIERRE:  No, you just try to get a good pitch.  I always try to say all the pressure's on the pitcher.  He's supposed to get you out.  Try to make him work a little bit.  Sometimes you go after the first pitch.  But for the most time, you try to go deeper in the count, give him a chance to make a mistake.  Not really nothing I do different.  I know that when guys are on, it puts them out of the position that they usually play me.  So some of the holes will be open that usually they're probably not open, just the simple fact that men on base.  Nothing usually different.  Just try to use the middle of the field.  Same old, same old, for me.  I don't have different swings.  My two strike swings and my 0-0 swings, my 2-0 swing, it eliminates a lot of guessing for me with having the same swing. 

Q.  In all three runs scored for your team, can you tell me how that feels, coming here, Yankee Stadium?

JUAN PIERRE:  It feels real good.  Especially to drive in runs.  40 RBIs, 700 at-bats.  It's always good for me to drive in runs, take pride in that.  I think just from me getting on, me and Luis stealing the base today, hopefully setting the tone for the rest of the series, but these guys are the Yankees.  You know they're professionals.  I don't think they take notice in all this.  They'll probably come back tomorrow, fired up, ready to go.  Just for us to send that message, hopefully, for the series, that I'm gonna be on and hopefully drive in some more runs this series.  Definitely score some runs. 

Q.  How much difference does it make when you guys at the top of the line-up are hitting like you've done? 

JUAN PIERRE:  I think it helps the whole line-up.  They get fastballs and balls up.  I know we had Wells slide stepping tonight.  I don't think he does that too much.  He was bouncing his breaking ball, his fastball got up a little bit.  I just can't see a pitcher being as comfortable when we're on base.  They may say "I know baseball," saying stealing bases, all that, is not as important.  But I think if you talk to any defensive guy or pitcher, that they're not as comfortable when we're on. 

Q.  Juan, tomorrow you'll be facing Andy Pettitte, who is renowned for his pickoff throw.  I'm wondering, have you ever seen him or faced him?  Have you looked at that pickoff throw at all? 

JUAN PIERRE:  I just seen it on video and I know we played him in Colorado last year.  I didn't play that game.  But it's kind of probably a crap shoot, you know.  I mean, you probably take a chance, 50/50, probably go first moving or something like that.  I think guys will try to pick up on things all year and they haven't.  I'll go watch video, but I don't know how successful I'll be.  But just getting on, making him maybe  -- maybe if I see it while I'm on base, I might pick something up.  It's a great pickoff move.  I'm gonna be as aggressive as I can on him, but be smart about it.

Q.  Are you expecting to spend the rest of the series in the bullpen?  Are you a candidate for Game 4?  After starting all year, how can you adjust?  Can you come back tomorrow if you need?  Just switching roles, can you discuss that?

DONTRELLE WILLIS:  I think I'm able to come back tomorrow and throw.  As far as starting, really doesn't matter to me if I start or relieve.  I just want to be able to be ready, go out there and pitch at any time.  Whatever Jack wants me to do, I'll be ready. 

Q.  Juan, were you surprised on your two-run single that Boone cut off a throw from Matsui?  And from your vantage point, did you think they might have had Encarnacion at the plate? 

JUAN PIERRE:  I know where the leftfielder usually plays me, how shallow it would be.  I knew I'd hit the ball hard.  I was surprised.  I was gonna make the turn so he can cut the ball off.  He was cutting the ball off as I was just trying to get off of first a little bit more.  Little bit surprised just for the fact that I know where he was playing and how hard I hit the ball.  But, you know, maybe Encarnacion got a good jump.  I don't know.  Looked like it was on line, but, you know, who knows?  Maybe I affected him, maybe he seen me out the corner of his eye rounding first and ready to take off.  I was a little bit surprised I guess just for the fact that I knew how close Matsui probably was and how hard I hit the ball. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT