NHL AWARD PRESENTATION
June 2, 2007
Niklas Backstrom
Sidney Crosby
Manny Fernandez
Brian Hayward
Vincent Lecavalier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  ELLIOTTE FRIEDMAN:  The first of the trophies to be presented this afternoon will be the Jennings Trophy.   
 To present the trophy, we welcome somebody who is very familiar with this award.  He won it for three consecutive seasons with the Montreal Canadiens 1987, 1988 and 1989 and he would have won a fourth in 1990 had Patrick Roy been able to make two more saves.  That's how far they were behind the Boston Bruins.  Please welcome Brian Hayward.   
 BRIAN HAYWARD:  We did lose to Jennings that year by two goals.  Over the years I've told everyone that I know that our third string goaltender played one game and gave up seven.  I tried to verify that on-line tonight; could not do it.  But it's a heck of a story, so I'm sticking with it.   
 Our two winners today of the William Jennings Award Trophy come from very different worlds.  One was born in Helsinki, Finland.  He honed his craft, dominating the Finnish Elite League for four seasons before becoming perhaps the hottest goaltender in the National Hockey League down the stretch this season.  It was an incredible break-through season for him.   
 Our other recipient was born in the Etobicoke, Ontario, was a dominant Junior goaltender with Laval in the Quebec league, winning Memorial Cups in 1993 and 1994.  Originally drafted by Quebec, he played for the Dallas organization for five seasons before being acquired by the Minnesota Wild in the summer of 2000.  He's been a model of consistency for them for the past six seasons.   
 It is indeed an honor for me to present the William M. Jennings Trophy to Niklas Backstrom and Manny Fernandez of the Minnesota Wild.  Gentlemen.   
 ELLIOTTE FRIEDMAN:  Thanks very much, Brian.   
 Just a couple of questions, first of all, for you, Manny.  You've been close to this three times before.  You and Dwayne Roloson were very close to winning this trophy.  It's the first individual trophy won by a member of the Wild organization, Jacques Lemaire won the Adams in 2003 as a player to win it.  And what does it mean to you after all the years in Minnesota and all the hard work you've put in there.   
 MANNY FERNANDEZ:  Like you said, we always drive on defensive play, so I think a lot of people know that.  Like you've said, we've come close a couple times.  Now to actually come up to the stage and get this is something we're proud of.  It also means we've taken a step in the right direction.   
 ELLIOTTE FRIEDMAN:  When you played with Dwayne Roloson, you talked about from the moment he was there and you were there, the chemistry developed and you knew you would be a great pair.  How long did it take for you to develop the chemistry with Niklas?   
 MANNY FERNANDEZ:  Right off the start.  He's obviously a hard worker.  When I was playing at the end of the year, Niklas has always shown that he had some great potential.  So there's something that told me when I got injured that this guy could play, and he definitely did.   
 ELLIOTTE FRIEDMAN:  Niklas, for yourself, we'll pass the mic on to you.  This is something you waited for a long time, a chance in the NHL hockey league.  Did you ever think that you would finally get that opportunity?   
 NIKLAS BACKSTROM:  You want to dream about it and you want to have dreams to achieve something.  Of course sometimes you start to think it's something that's going to happen, and finally a year ago I got a chance and I'm very lucky for it.  I'm happy to be here.   
 ELLIOTTE FRIEDMAN:  Did you ever imagine that the season could be as successful as it was for you this year?   
 NIKLAS BACKSTROM:  That's why you work hard, to gain some success.  But to be honest, I never would have believed that we - or I could be here together with Manny.   
 I had to fight for a spot on the team and after that, of course, playing time.  It's been a great time.   
 ELLIOTTE FRIEDMAN:  Congratulations, gentlemen.  Well deserved.  Congratulations on your victory.   
 The next two award winners have a lot in common.  Both played their junior hockey in Rimouski, both were No. 1 overall draft picks with great hype, fanfare and expectation.  Both of them now, as of Thursday, are the first and second youngest captains in NHL history.   
 First of all we begin with the Art Ross Trophy.   
 Well, if you were here in this room last night, you witnessed an absolutely incredible evening with the six remaining members of the five straight Stanley Cup championship teams:  The Montreal Canadiens between 1956 and '60.  They were incredible stories, and it was a terrific evening.  To present the Art Ross, we welcome one of the members of that franchise, the greatest winner in North American sports of team sports history, 11 Stanley Cups, Henri Richard.   
 And in searching for some kind of link between Henri Richard and this year's winner, I found a quote from Eddie Johnston, a long-time winner goaltender and Penguins executive.  He was quote as saying about Sidney Crosby:  You're not going to intimidate this kid.  He's not going to back off.  There are players like that.  When we played against Henri Richard or Frank Mahovich, the word in our meetings was, "Leave those guys alone.  Ask them how their families are doing, but don't wake them up.  If you tick them off, they become even better players."   
 So that's why it's fitting that Henri Richard present the Art Ross to Sidney Crosby.   
 Come on up, Sidney.   
 Thank you very much.  We'll welcome you back up in a moment for the other presentation.   
 Sid, anything interesting going on in your life this week?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY:  A few things.  But, no, it's been a fun few days, obviously.  But it's nice to get a bit of a break after the season.   
 And I gotta thank the NHL for bringing me back here because I have so many great memories being at this hotel and battling in the playoffs.  It's fun to see the playoffs and we had a great year this year.  I think we have something to build off of, and I think we're all excited about getting back here next year.   
 ELLIOTTE FRIEDMAN:  Last year in your first season you finished sixth in the scoring race.  Was it a goal of yours to win a trophy this year.   
 SIDNEY CROSBY:  I don't think it ever is.  You want to contribute and as an offensive player you want to do well.  You want to help your team out every night.   
 But this is just something that I think comes with hard work.  If you worry about it, it's probably not going to come your way.  So my focus has always been on winning and helping my team and this is just something that comes along with it.   
 ELLIOTTE FRIEDMAN:  Just the things you learned about the playoffs.  You were competing with a broken foot.  You played really hard.  The Ottawa players said you were the best player that Pittsburgh had in that series.  What did you learn about what it takes to win this time of year.   
 SIDNEY CROSBY:  Consistency.  When we look back at our series, we played hard but there was five minutes here, ten minutes there that we didn't play our game.  And with a great team like Ottawa, we paid the price for that.   
 But like I said, to see Ottawa going that far now, it probably makes it a little bit easier.  At the same time, we were a young team, we needed to go through that.  I think it's something we're going to build off of.   
 ELLIOTTE FRIEDMAN:  A lot of hockey players say I hope the team that beats us wins it all so that we know we lost to somebody special.  Just a final question.  Vincent is here, and as we mentioned, before you he was the youngest captain in NHL history.  Have you talked about that at all, about what that's like?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY:  No, I haven't.  But I'll have time tonight.  I'm sure it's something I'll talk to him about.  We also have to mention for us to come from Rimouski, I think that says a lot about their organization and I think that I owe them a lot of thanks, too, because for both of us we came into the league at a pretty young age, and you need to be prepared to do that.   
 And I think they had a big part to do with that.  So I think we're both thankful going through Rimouski.   
 ELLIOTTE FRIEDMAN:  Congratulations.  Enjoy the game tonight.   
 SIDNEY CROSBY:  Thank you.   
 ELLIOTTE FRIEDMAN:  That leaves one more, the Rocket Richard Trophy.   
 It's only fitting to welcome Mr. Henri Richard back up to present the trophy that's named in honor of his brother, Maurice.  This year's winner is probably closest known for what Rocket Richard because he was in the Rocket movie playing the role of Jean Beliveau, whose number he wears in honor of.   
 I was speaking with one of my compatriots, and he was telling me what a huge day this is in the province of Quebec, because for the first time the Rocket Richard Trophy is won by a francophone player.  I know that means as much to him as it does to them.   
 Please welcome Vincent Lecavalier, this year's goal scoring leader in the NHL.   
 Thanks again, Henri.  It was a pleasure to hear you and the other Canadiens last night.   
 Well, you grew up a huge Canadiens fan.  Your father is here, a big Canadiens fan.  You wear a No. 4 in honor of Jean Beliveau.  But the Rocket for a lot was the legend.  What were you told over the years about Maurice Richard?   
 VINCENT LECAVALIER:  First of all, it means a lot, being French Canadian from Quebec, it's definitely a great honor.  I grew up reading about Maurice Richard and all the great stories.  And it's just a great honor to be up here.  I never thought it would happen and it did.  So I'm very happy.   
 ELLIOTTE FRIEDMAN:  Pat Burns said that you were the best player he saw this year.  He watches a lot of Tampa games.  Was this, you felt, your best season in the National Hockey League?   
 VINCENT LECAVALIER:  I think when you get into the league at 18 years old, you're very young.  Every year you get a little bit better.  You get more mature.  Plus this year I had a chance to play with two unbelievable players:  Martin St. Louis and Voklov Prospal.  I'm very lucky to be on the same team with these two guys.   
 ELLIOTTE FRIEDMAN:  It was talked about Sid being the captain this week.  Before that, you were the record holder for the youngest captain.  What advice would you give him on how to face that role?   
 VINCENT LECAVALIER:  You know what, I don't think I can give any advice.  I think he's doing everything right.  He's a great leader.  He's already shown it.  Came into the league at 18 with a lot of confidence and a lot of leadership.  And he's just going to get better and better every year.  He's 19 years old.  I can't even imagine how good and how great he's going to be when he's 26 and 27 years old.   
 So just keep doing what you're doing and things will just get better and better.   
 ELLIOTTE FRIEDMAN:  That's true.  I did a headliner on Vincent during the playoffs and I asked him who his MVP vote would go to, and he said, "It has to be Crosby because I couldn't imagine doing at 19 what he did at 19."   
VINCENT LECAVALIER:  Definitely.  Like I said before, I got into the league at 18 years old.  It's very tough.  I mean, you're playing against guys that are 30 years old or 215, 230 pounds, and they're strong.  Strong physically.   
 So to do what he's doing right now, it's unbelievable.   
 ELLIOTTE FRIEDMAN:  All right.  This is your moment.  We'll ask you to have a seat over here and we'll start taking questions from the assorted media here and by conference call.   
 Thank you, Vincent.  Congratulations.   
 FRANK BROWN:  I'd like to welcome the media here and across North America on the conference call.   
 Questions for Vincent.   
  
  Q.  So how was your trip (laughter)?   
 VINCENT LECAVALIER:  Pretty good.   
  
  Q.  Vinny, are you at all worried this summer what's going to happen with Tampa with the cap situation and so forth, you and Brad?   
 VINCENT LECAVALIER:  We've learned this week that they're going to keep the budget the same or even maybe try to bring it up.  So I think Jay Feaster is doing a great job at that and it shows the commitment of the Tampa Bay Lightning.   
 So, I mean, you never know in hockey what can happen.  But from what I hear and from what - the meetings I've had at the end of the year, I think they'll keep the same guys.   
  
  Q.  You mentioned your linemates before.  What is it about those guys that allowed you to do what you did this year?   
 VINCENT LECAVALIER:  We've got two guys - I'll start with Marty St. Louis.  He's probably the hardest-working guy in the league.  He's not a big guy, but when he goes into a corner he comes out with a puck.   
 Just both these guys, how determined they are, you have no choice with them.  It doesn't matter if it's - sometimes 82 games is a lot of games.  Sometimes you're tired or sometimes you're not playing as well as you should.  But these guys really - they really pushed me and we pushed each other.  I think that's what made our line very successful this year?   
  
  Q.  In the run up to this announcement, there were some points made about the significance of you being the first Quebec-born player to win this award.  Can you talk about that for yourself personally and what it means?   
 VINCENT LECAVALIER:  Definitely means a lot.  Like I said before, Maurice Richard is a legend in Montreal.  Even though I didn't really see him play, we still heard stories about him.  And just I go back to Montreal now and people are very happy that - they would come up to me in the streets and say how proud they were of me being the first French Canadian to win that trophy.   
 It just really means a lot and I never thought that it would happen, and it did.  So just very happy that everything went the way it did this year.   
  
  Q.  Have you watched this series or any past playoff games?  And if you have, do you see a comparison between the Ducks with Niedermayer and Pronger of the Devils teams you played with, Niedermayer and Stevens?   
 VINCENT LECAVALIER:  Any time you play with Niedermayer, it's definitely very hard.  And I definitely feel for that line, the Spezza line.  They're playing against two unbelievable defense with Pronger, and it's tough.  These guys are good, and they have a tough two games.   
 But they've shown in the past that they could score.  They can produce.  So I'm sure they'll come out tonight and have a great match, a great game.   
  
  Q.  Having scored 50 goals for the first time, do you have a new appreciation of how hard it is to reach that milestone?  And now that you've done it, do you kind of set your sights on maybe 60 at some point in your career?   
 VINCENT LECAVALIER:  Before this year, the most goals I've had was in Juniors where I had 44.  So every year I tell myself I want to have a better year.  I think this year, like I said before, playing with Martin St. Louis and Vaclav Prospal, it helps so much.  These guys are so - they're so determined and everything.  So it really helped.  We helped each other.   
 But for next year, I just want to have a good year and keep that confidence going and hopefully things will go well.   
 FRANK BROWN:  Now we'll ask Manny Fernandez and Niklas Backstrom.   
  
  Q.  A lot of times the dynamic between two goalies on the same team is a bit of a battle, but you guys are accepting an award for your combined contributions.  Just talk about the relationship that you have and maybe how unique it is from one guy to root for the other guy.   
 MANNY FERNANDEZ:  I think it's beneficial for both guys on the team to play well.  I never had the problem back in the days where I had to split between - it is somewhat of a - you want to play better.  You want to play hard.  It's always - it's good for the team.  It's a challenge.  And obviously having two guys, it's shown to work in Minnesota.   
 There's a lot of games.  Not a lot of days off.  So it's always good that the team can count on two guys so if one guy gets down, the other guy takes over.   
 NIKLAS BACKSTROM:  It's like Manny said, the biggest thing is that the team is winning and that that always comes first.  And every goalie knows that only one can play at a time.  So you grow up with that, and for me it was - especially in the beginning it was really big help for me that Manny had some great experience from this league and helped me a lot inside the rink and outside the rink, what I can do and what was not good.   
 So when you're a new guy coming, especially from Europe, it's good to have a guy who is showing you around and teaching you.   
  
  Q.  There's changes every year in every team.  Do the two of you both expect to be back with Minnesota next season?   
 MANNY FERNANDEZ:  That's tough to say.  We're not the ones making that decision.  I think for - I speak for both of us, the main focus is to just get in shape this summer and come to camp ready to play.   
 And from there, I mean, like I said, it's better if they have two than have one.  And whatever decision they make, at least it makes sure that you're ready mentally.   
 NIKLAS BACKSTROM:  Yes, it's like Manny said, we can't think too much on that.  We have to start to get ready for the next season.   
 And it's up to our people to make those decisions.  We have to just focus, to be as good as we can be, and that's the only thing both of us are thinking now and getting ready.   
  
  Q.  I'd like to ask about the increasing number of goaltenders coming from Finland.  This is a fairly recent phenomenon, but it seems to be growing and growing.  Can you talk about that?   
 NIKLAS BACKSTROM:  Yes, it's hard to explain what's the trend.  It's probably going in cycles.  Like a couple of years ago we had goalies from Czech and years before that from Quebec.  And in Finland you always had good goalies, but not many of them got a chance to play over here.   
 These guys got a chance to play here and showed that a Finnish goalie can win games here.  I think that opened some doors for other goalies in Finland.   
 In Finland you have a goalie coach since you're six, seven years old.  You always have a guy teaching you.  So that's always - you have to remember that you don't get anything for free.  So goalies in Finland practice a lot and, they're learning the techniques since they were young.  So that's helping them a lot.   
 FRANK BROWN:  Thank you, gentlemen.   
 Questions for Sidney.   
  
  Q.  If you will, can you elaborate a little bit, when you talk about a learning experience in the playoffs your first time, and you've seen how far Ottawa has gone, tell me what you think has to be different for you next year, for your team, things that you're going to pick up on from this past experience?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY:  Well, I think if you look at Game 1 right off the bat, we were basically down a game before we knew what happened to us.   
 We maybe took a little bit longer in that game to really feel it out.  And besides that, I thought after that we played pretty well.  We got a big win in Game 2.  Game 3 was just one of those games we didn't really produce a lot.   
 And then Game 4 we should have won.  We dominated Game 4.  And that's how the playoffs go.  But I think with experience, maybe you capitalize on some of those power plays or maybe get that one big penalty kill you need.   
 But that's what experience does for you.  Unfortunately, we didn't have that.  But I think that one series will really help us for the next time.  We won't need that one game to get our feet wet.   
 And that should be a difference as we go along.   
  
  Q.  Sidney, what do you foresee, if anything, about being the biggest challenge about being the captain of the Penguins starting next year?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY:  I don't think there's really any big challenge that comes with it.  I think the expectations for myself are high already.  Maybe they'll be higher.   
 But as far as I'm concerned, I'm not really going to change too much.  I'm still learning a lot.  And I'm going to learn more about how to handle things and how to be a good captain.  That doesn't happen overnight.   
 And I think that's just - that's part of it.  Everyone's going to make mistakes, but you have to make sure you learn from them.  But I think the worst thing I can do is try to put more pressure on myself or change anything.   
 I think I've always tried to lead by example.  And no matter what it was, I tried to be a leader.  And I think if anything it will just motivate me to be better and just take that responsibility a little bit more.   
  
  Q.  Sidney, when I visited you in Rimouski, you told me it was your goal to be the best hockey player in the world.  You've now led the league in scoring.  First of all, what's the next level for you, and does it amaze you when you hear Vinny talk about how much better you'll get with age?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY:  I don't think that far ahead.  But the next level, obviously you play to win Stanley Cups.  I mean, it's always nice when you win awards.  I don't want to take anything away from them because they're accomplishments and something I'm proud of.  But when you look back on your career, you want to be able to say you won the Stanley Cup.  And I think that's something that drives me every time I play, every summer and every season.  That's what you work hard for.   
 So that's really something I look forward to.  And both would be nice.  But the Stanley Cup is what you play for.   
  
  Q.  Judging from your walk up to the podium, your foot seems to have healed.  Can you say how much it hindered you in the playoffs, and do you expect any ramifications from it or is it completely over with?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY:  Yes, I went to Pittsburgh the last couple of days.  And after that point I wasn't clear to work out or anything.  Now I am.  So that's positive.  I can start getting ready for this season.  And it feels good.   
 In the playoffs it wasn't something that really hindered me a lot, to be honest.  I hurt it three weeks before the end of the season.  That was probably the worst part, when it initially happened, the first two or three weeks.   
 During the playoffs, I didn't really feel it a whole lot.  I might get whacked there once in a while, but it really wasn't something that changed my game or something.  By no means do I want it to be an excuse, because it's not.   
 I hope that's not the way people see it.  But it's just one of those things that you're playing the playoffs and you want to play no matter what.   
 So I'm glad that everything healed and there's no ramifications of playing or anything like that.  And I'll be ready for next season.   
  
  Q.  Sidney, how important was it to learn from Mark Recchi and Gary Roberts especially in the second half of the season?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY:  It was big, especially on a young team.  You don't realize how important the second half is.  Every team is fighting for their lives.  After Christmas, it was so competitive, and I think everyone has seen, it goes right down to the last game.   
 We were fortunate to get a good streak going.  And when we were on that streak, it was a lot of the older guys that were telling us stay with it, don't accept winning six or seven in a row, keep it going.   
 And that was really a turning point in our season.  So we learned a lot by observing what they do, but also when they speak everyone listens.  They had a big impact on helping our team.   
  
  Q.  We had a great time listening to six great Montreal Canadiens.  Did you get a chance to meet any of these guys?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY:  Last night I did, when they got together here.  I met Mr. Beliveau at a Quebec league banquet.  He presented me with an award.  So growing up a Montreal fan, it's pretty amazing to meet those guys and here I am talking about trying to win one Stanley Cup and those guys have 10 or 11.  It doesn't seem fair (laughing).  But it's still amazing, and their stories are probably stories we could sit down and listen to for hours.   
 But it's still amazing to meet those people.   
  
  Q.  In terms of the captain seat, is there anybody you would like to emulate or kind of follow in the footsteps of?   
 SIDNEY CROSBY:  I've thought about that.  And I think it's important, like I said, to do the same thing.  I think the best captains are always the ones who lead by example, with the way they play.  And a lot of times actions speak louder than words.   
 And everyone has their own style.  Some guys are guys that holler, motivate, and I think there's times when I feel like I need to say something I will.  I don't think I'm uncomfortable to do that.   
 But I think for the most part it's going to be leading through my play.  And I think guys like the Yzermans and the Sakics are guys that do a lot of that, and those are guys I look up to.   
 ELLIOTTE FRIEDMAN:  Thank you, sir.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT