U.S. OLYMPIC SWIM TRIALS
July 1, 2016
Lilly King
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. (No microphone.)
LILLY KING: Yeah, it was a little bit, but I was just looking to my side, like, seeing who was going to be second, who was going to make the team.  So that's what I was focusing on the last 15, not necessarily myself.
Q. (No microphone.)
LILLY KING: Yeah.  And (Away from mic.)  Except paddle the last 25 (Away from mic.)  Yeah, as long as there was no one surprise on the outside of the lane, I was pretty sure I had it.
Q. (No microphone.)
LILLY KING: Yeah, I think it changed hands pretty quick, at least it did from my point of view.
Q. Have you been thinking about swimming two events at the Olympics?  When did it dawn on you that you could swim --
LILLY KING: I think it happened back in December, when I won that Winter National title that I could swim the 200, so I think that's when that started.
Q. What's it like for you to come in and succeed in two events?
LILLY KING: I'm pretty excited, being able to represent Team USA in two events is a pretty special thing, and I know I'm really going to have to step up my game if I want to medal in the 200.  I'm going to work with (Away from mic.)  for the next couple of months and hopefully that turns out in medals in Rio.
Q. Do you like one over the other?
LILLY KING: The 100, by far.
Q. (No microphone.)
LILLY KING: That's awesome.  I mean, dream come true.  Maybe (Away from mic.)
Q. What do you need to do in your 200 you think to tweak that and make that a little bit faster?
LILLY KING: Yeah, I think my first 100 is definitely where it needs to be.  I'm not sure what I was out in tonight.  I was 1:08 yesterday night, so I think 1:08, 1:12 would be great for me to get a 2:20, maybe even be under 2:20, but I know I'm going to have to definitely get my time down quite a bit in order to do well in that.
Q. (No microphone.)
LILLY KING: I think I started at the beginning of my sophomore year in high school.
Q. You swam through to --
LILLY KING: Yes.
Q. (No microphone.)
LILLY KING: It's still pretty special because it's just like my "off" event, and it's great to be able to represent the USA in not only one but two.
Q. Your mom said when you were 12 you announced that you were going to --
LILLY KING: Yeah, I mean, it didn't really like -- I guess the obnoxious confidence didn't happen until (Away from mic.)  But I've always been a pretty confident person in whatever I'm doing, so the time when I start to doubt myself is is when I think I fail, so I try not to do that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT