NL DIVISION SERIES: MARLINS v GIANTS
October 3, 2003
Jerome Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Your thoughts about starting tomorrow's game? 
 
JEROME WILLIAMS:  Hopefully we get a chance to pitch tomorrow.  You know, I'm just pretty happy.  First time out.  It's going to be very exciting.  
 
Q.  Are you clear that you're going to be pitching tomorrow? 
 
JEROME WILLIAMS:  Right now, I really don't know.  Hopefully, you know, I do have a chance to pitch tomorrow.  If I do, I'll show my stuff.  
 
Q.  If there is any uncertainty about whether it would be you or Jason Schmidt, does that affect your preparations tonight or tomorrow morning?
 
JEROME WILLIAMS:  Doesn't affect me nothing.  Just got to take it as, you know, a day that I'll pitch.  You know, hopefully, you know, I do have a chance to pitch.  I'll just go out there and do my thing.  
 
Q.  Has anyone in the organization discussed with you that it could depend on the outcome of today's game, whether you start or not? 
 
JEROME WILLIAMS:  I heard a lot of stuff around the clubhouse.  You know, I haven't really know anything yet.  But probably today I'll find out, you know, go from there.  
 
Q.  A year ago at this time you were pitching in the Arizona fall league.  Now you're here in the post-season.  Could you talk about the change a year makes. 
 
JEROME WILLIAMS:  Hitters, I mean, atmosphere, everything.  I was in AAA, never thought I would be here.  Now I'm here.  I just want to make the best of it.  
 
Q.  They're anticipating 60,000, which is more than they've had for anything around here for a while.  Does that affect you when it's the other team's crowd? 
 
JEROME WILLIAMS:  It won't affect me.  I'll just have to go out there with the same mentality I have been going out there, you know, since I got called up.  I don't really pay attention to the crowd or anything.  All I got to do is pay attention to what I'm going to do.  I'm going to do my job.  
 
Q.  Had you ever had the opportunity to attend a post-season game before this season? 
 
JEROME WILLIAMS:  Never.  Never did.  This is actually my first time ever in a playoff situation, including, you know, playing in it or watching it, in high school up to now.  So this is a good experience for me right now.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT