US OPEN
September 5, 2005
Nicolas Massu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








NICOLAS MASSU: I don't have nothing to explain. He have to explain. He have to explain. Me, I don't have nothing to say. 

NICOLAS MASSU: I don't know what you say. I don't know. 

NICOLAS MASSU: Misunderstanding, what? 

NICOLAS MASSU: Asking about what happened. They say that Coria say it was a misunderstanding. I say I don't know. If he say that, if he feels calm, it's okay for him. But I don't know. I don't know. It's okay. I don't have problem. I lose. I'm a professional. I agree that I lose. I'm pissed because I lose, but I lose with a good player. I don't have nothing to say. 

NICOLAS MASSU: Yeah, I think the match maybe in another moment in my career if I have more confidence, some shots in the match, maybe I won this match. But I lose because I make a little bit of mistakes in important moments. But he play good also. He's a very difficult player. You have to win the point like four, five, six, seven times. He run a lot. I make an important mistake, and that's why I lose the match. 

NICOLAS MASSU: I don't want to have problem with Guillermo because is a -- I never have problems with him. I think he's one of the best Argentinian guys. So I don't know what happened to him today. Maybe was they say -- I was surprised what he do. What can I do? 

NICOLAS MASSU: I think both we get nervous. I think he get nervous with his serve. He start to put nervous a lot with his serve. He make a lot of double-fault. And me, I make the same. I get nervous, but with my forehand a little bit. Sometime the ball fly here. But it's okay. I have good chances to win today. But I told you, he play better in the important moments than me. I have a difficult year. Before this tournament, I didn't have too much confidence. I try to arrive here and try to find the confidence. I improve a lot this week so I'm happy for that. You are never happy when you lose. But is okay. Next time. 

NICOLAS MASSU: Three big injuries. I stop for five months. I come back in Houston this year. Now I feel better. If I have more tournaments in my body, maybe today was different because I start to feel tired in the fourth and the fifth set. I give everything in the third set, then I think the effect to me later. 

NICOLAS MASSU: I don't know. In my opinion, you have to feel good or bad. If you feel that you can continue, you continue. All the tennis players have a lot of problems in the career. I don't know. It depends on the person. 

NICOLAS MASSU: I don't know. I don't think so. He play better. He play better and I make a lot of mistakes. I have a breakpoint with my forehand. I miss that ball. I don't think that I lose the match because I start to speak with him. He play better than me in the important moments, and that's it. I think I have to see this match later. I try to improve that. I have a lot of chances maybe to break the service of him. I didn't make it. Is experience. Maybe the next time will not happen. 


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT