US OPEN
August 30, 2004
Nicolas Massu
Fernando Gonzalez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Are you going to play doubles here? 
 
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ: Of course. We gonna try to keep going, so this is a good chance to keep it.  
 
Q. How do you explain this? You never won a doubles title before, you go to the Olympics, you win the doubles. What's the explanation? 
 
 NICOLAS MASSU: I think because normally when you play like for your country it's different. Normally when you play in the ATP, you be more focused in the singles, and you don't have time to practice the doubles. And the last three or four weeks before the Olympics, we practiced like a lot of doubles match. We play very good. Just we get confidence in the last weeks, and we play very good in the Olympics against the Bryans, in the semis against Ljubicic and Ancic we play very good.  
 
Q. In the worst moment against the Germans, did you talk to each other and say, "What do we do now?" 
 
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ: I don't remember that moment because I was really tired. But you have to try to fight until the end. It was only one point away to lose the match, but anyway you have to try and keep going until the end. So maybe we get a little bit lucky in that set.  
 
Q. What has been the reaction back home? You're responsible for Chile's success in the entire Olympic Games, weren't you, for medals? Has it been good for tennis? 
 
 NICOLAS MASSU: Yeah, I see some videos the last days from Chile. The people get a little bit crazy because they are very happy. They are the first two gold medals in the history of Chile. Tennis now maybe gonna be the most important sport in the country. There are a lot of kids now trying to play tennis.  
 
Q. Did you ever dream that you would be the person who would bring two gold medals home to your country? 
 
 NICOLAS MASSU: Normally when you go to a tournament, you think to won the tournament. But you never know if you lost in the second round, the semis. But it's unbelievable to win two gold medals. Some time you do, I don't know, it's a dream.  
 
Q. On a hard court against Mardy Fish, did you surprise yourself? 
 
 NICOLAS MASSU: I played good last year. I make finals in Madrid, faster than the Olympic Games. I play always -- well, I born in clay, but in the last four or five years I improve a lot in hard court. When I play with Fish, I try to do my tennis and I play very good, 6-4 in the fifth.  
 
Q. What can you tell us about Garcia, the next Chilean player. 
 
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ: He's a good player. He start to have the good results since this year. He start like 400. He's almost in the Top 100 now. So he can maybe much more in tennis, and I think he will do it. He's 100 in the world, he have the game to improve more.  
 
Q. He's very fast. His feet are very quick. 
 
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ: Yeah, he's a good player.  
 
Q. Can he make Top 20, Top 30? 
 
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ: I don't know. You never know (smiling).  
 
Q. Maybe you answered this already, but in the gold medal match, when you were so exhausted and it was going on for so long, what did you tell yourself, how did you sustain your energy level? 
 
 NICOLAS MASSU: I think a lot of things, but in the middle of the match I start to be unbelievable tired. I cannot move my feet. And I think that when I was like -- when I lost that third set, I start to think that maybe I'm never gonna be again here, playing a final of the Olympic Games. "I have to do my best for one more hour or two more hours," and then I, I don't know, I start to feel better. I don't know. I think a lot of things, but I cannot remember very good. Just to be focus and try to not think that I'm so tired.  
 
Q. Did you think at all during the match what a victory would mean to your country? 
 
 NICOLAS MASSU: Before the doubles or the singles?  
 
Q. No, in the singles. 
 
 NICOLAS MASSU: Yeah, you never think about this in the court. After the match I know that the country with the two gold medals, they are gonna be like, I told you before, grace in Chile because they're first two gold medals in the history.  
 
Q. It's time for the National Anthem. You're standing in the middle. Fernando is on your side. They're playing the National Anthem. 
 
 NICOLAS MASSU: I don't understand.  
 
Q. It's time now to award the medal. You're standing in the middle, on the platform. Fernando is on one side, Mardy is on the other. They're playing the National Anthem of Chile. Did you nearly cry? What were your emotions when you were standing there listening to this? 
 
 NICOLAS MASSU: Yes, it's very important moment in my life. I think one of the best. I carry the flag in 2000. I was very happy. And that moment, when I was up in the podium, I think one of my best days in my life. A lot of work behind this and to win the gold medal, with Fernando also.  
 
Q. And when you got home, Santiago, what sort of reception did you get? 
 
 NICOLAS MASSU: I don't know. Gonna be maybe different, so much different. Because normally we play Davis Cup, and maybe two or three days the people are happy and then forget about Davis Cup. This is different. Gonna be in the history of the sports in Chile. Gonna be after here there. We have a lot of things to do. Gonna play actually with Fernando also Davis Cup. Tennis now, I tell you before, the best sport in Chile.  
 
Q. What were your emotions when you were on the stand listening to the National Anthem? 
 
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ: It was different, the two days. Because the first day we just win the match, and then we get the medals and all the rest. It was very -- it feels really -- I never feel like that. Was really, really unbelievable moment, and the next day also, I mean... But the first day was, to get the gold medal, it was really -- I mean, I can't tell you more.  
 
Q. Why do you think it is that the top men's players don't play doubles anymore? 
 
 NICOLAS MASSU: Because I think they are thinking about the singles. You cannot play singles and doubles in all the tournament.  
 
Q. Compared to some other countries, Chile is not that well-known, at least to us Americans. What is the best quality, what is the special quality of Chile that you like so much or you think is special? 
 
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ: About our country?  
 
Q. Yes. 
 
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ: We have everything. We have all the weathers that you can find, we have the mountains one hour away, and we have the sea to the other side. So you can find anything in one place. So that's the best -- it's the best country for me in the world.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT