TMS - MADRID
October 17, 2003
Nicolas Massu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








NICOLAS MASSU: Well, I'm really happy because of the way I won the match. Now I'm really happy. I had lost the two last matches against Chela. It was not an easy situation. For him, I think it was one of the most important matches of his life, the same for me. I'm very happy to have defeated him. As I said, especially because of the way I won, because I think it was a great match. I'm happy to be in the semifinals. 

NICOLAS MASSU: I've always said that everything that happens to me is important. I felt the support of my country. I play for myself, but also for the country I come from. I'm happy. If I continue to play this way, they're going to support me. I love to have them there, especially in the bad moments. That is great. 

NICOLAS MASSU: I think Marcelo Rios was the one who made us all start. I'm always going to be grateful to him. I'm grateful to him because he's been great to me. He's always given me very important advice. It's not easy to have a person next to you all the time in a country like Chile, that was No. 1 that supports you and tells you that you can also get to the top. Now Chile has new faces, that's true. But I hope there will be even more in the future because it's not easy to play at this level. It's difficult. 

NICOLAS MASSU: Even if it's my first time in the semifinals for me, I don't know what to tell you. We're all in the top 40 more or less. It's not such a novelty for me being here at this stage. But it's true that if I'm in the semifinals, there's only one step for me to take. It's close but far away at the same time. I told you that yesterday. 

NICOLAS MASSU: I think each player has good and bad things. But I've learned a lot. Sometimes I've seen I've almost lost watches, and in the end I won it. I think psychologically one has to be strong. When I'm not positive, it doesn't work. Today I lost the first set because of two points, but I was feeling I had a chance to win. So why should I stay there? Why shouldn't I fight for the rest of the match? I felt confident. Okay, he was there, but he had to play his best tennis to defeat me. 

NICOLAS MASSU: Chela for me is one of the best players on the circuit. That's the way I see things. He's a player that makes no errors. I think his game is incredible. Today he was great, too. But I was lucky and I won because of two points that defined the match. I told you before that it's not easy to always be at the same level, the same level like I played at yesterday. It's very difficult to win by two sets and to feel that everything goes okay. Today was fine. I'm happy with it. The thing is that results depend on many factors. I could have lost the match with Chela also. 

NICOLAS MASSU: Every player is tired now at this stage. You have to deal with the situation. If one wants to win a tournament, he knows he's going to be tired every day. Tomorrow I'll try to win. I'll try my best. I'll think about myself and not about my rivals. I need to do what I know how to do. If he defeats me, well, we'll shake hands. But I'm confident in myself. I have faith in myself, even if it's not easy. 

NICOLAS MASSU: Yeah. Actually, I'd love to play the final against Ferrero, but there's also Feliciano, Federer. It wouldn't be polite to say I only want to defeat Ferrero. As I said when I mentioned Roddick a few days ago, I've still got one match to go. But it would be nice because there's people here that have faith in Ferrero. For me it would be a very, very nice final. Anyway, I don't care who I defeat. The important thing is to win the tournament. It's a dream to win here. 


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT