US OPEN
August 30, 2001
Nicolas Massu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Nico, second set. 3-4, you have a shot at a breakpoint. 
 
 NICOLAS MASSU: 4-4.  
 
Q. 4-4. You make that shot. You're serving for the second set. Long. Tell me about the shot. 
 
 NICOLAS MASSU: Yeah, I think when I go to the locker room, I was pissed because I think if I make that, maybe I won the -- I have 5-4, serving for the second set. If I won that serve, I was two sets up, maybe the match maybe change. But tennis is like this. I miss ball like this (indicating). I can't believe it when they told me that it was out. But tennis is like this. After that, when I lost the second set, I -- my mental - what do you say - when I lost the second set, I start to fighting with me because "Why this ball don't get in? Why like this out?" And I saw him when he play, when he won the second set, he say, "Come on." He was very tired in second set. When he won the second set, he feel like I think more confidence after that. Then I make double-fault in the set point, miss a forehand with the ball like this. The wind... But I think with this ball in the 4-4 breakpoint, maybe change the match. I don't know.  
 
Q. On this point were you surprised when he hit the volley right at you? 
 
 NICOLAS MASSU: What?  
 
Q. When he hit his volley right at you to give you that shot. 
 
 NICOLAS MASSU: Yeah.  
 
Q. Were you surprised to see the ball coming right back to you? 
 
 NICOLAS MASSU: On the breakpoint?  
 
Q. Yes. 
 
 NICOLAS MASSU: No. Just I run to my forehand. When I put -- I try to put a lot of topspin. I think that the ball is gonna be in, but I don't know why the ball like this out. I serve 5-4 for the second set, two sets to zero up, maybe change the match. I don't know. But now I'm don't happy -- I'm not happy because maybe with this ball I won the match. You never know.  
 
Q. The crowd support was amazing for you. Was it a big help? Did it mean a lot to you in the match? 
 
 NICOLAS MASSU: I think when I play Davis Cup I have a lot of experience. I play a lot with people. Wimbledon, I play with Agassi. And I play this year a lot in the center courts. And the crowd's unbelievable today.  
 
Q. Did you think they wanted you to win, they wanted you to make the match go longer? 
 
 NICOLAS MASSU: Maybe. I think the people feel happy - there's a good match. The other side of the game, maybe all the people 80 percent, 90 percent of the people are with Agassi after he start to win balls - maybe. I feel like this.  
 
Q. A number of balls you hit into the corners. Agassi doesn't even try for the ball. Does it surprise you? 
 
 NICOLAS MASSU: I don't know.  
 
Q. Obviously, you must be disappointed. But considering the challenge that you gave Agassi, can you take something positive out of the match? 
 
 NICOLAS MASSU: Yeah, of course you get something positive. I feel when I was younger, my family, my coaches, my first coaches and my mental -- mentalities, I go to won to anybody. I face Agassi or another player, I try to go to win. Maybe today I not the -- maybe he was -- he's the No. 1 or No. 2 in the world. He have to won the match. Me, maybe nothing to lose. But I feel different now. I feel that I -- maybe the tennis game, the difference is here. (Pointing to his head). I think the first 50 players or top 100 players stay the same. But I think is here.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT