DAVIS CUP FINALS
November 21, 2019
Nicolas Massu
Alejandro Tabilo
Nicolas Jarry
Cristian Garin
Marcelo Barrios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GERMANY 2, Chile 1   
KOHLSCHREIBER/Jarry 6-4, 6-3   
GARIN/Struff 6-7, 7-6, 7-6   
KRAWIETZ-MIES/Barrios-Tabilo 7-6, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Let's start with the press conference. First questions in Spanish, then we will change to English.   
(Questions in Spanish.)   
THE MODERATOR: Last two questions in English.   
 Q.  This is a new Davis Cup, new format, bit of a change from the best-of-five and making it a one-week event for 18 nations. So these are questions for both the captain and the players, Nicolas, Cristian, everyone, regarding how you feel the format has changed, how do you feel in terms of comparison with the old one and in terms of the crowd atmosphere? And what are the new kind of strategies that you can involve in the new Davis Cup? Because we have only three matches, whereas in the past you had reverse singles as well. What are the new kind of strategies that you can bring in? And can you swap the No. 1 and No. 2 players, like, based on the head-to-head? Will you be able to do that as well, like maybe this year or upcoming years?  
NICOLAS MASSU: Well, I understand your question, but not exactly what you ask me about. I think that -- I mean, I already said in Spanish. I mean, I don't know -- I don't think too much about the new rules or the new Davis Cup.   
I mean, for me, the first thing is to represent your country. I mean, it doesn't matter for me if it's the old Davis Cup or the new one. For me, I come here with the same players that we play the last five or six years and I think -- now maybe after we finish the Davis Cup, I can analyze it even more. But I need more time to see some options.   
But I think that now we are here. I think the people who surround tennis, they know what they have to do. I mean, everyone that is around the tennis, they want the best. And I also support this sport because it is our life.   
But it's so soon to tell you exactly the option to change or to stay. I prefer to have more time to analyze.   
 Q.  (Off microphone.)  
NICOLAS MASSU: Now we are here, I think, let this week finish and then maybe Monday -- I will be not here, but I will give you my phone. You can ask me on the phone.   
 Q.  (Off microphone.)  
ALEJANDRO TABILO: Well, I agree with our captain. It's a strange change because one is used to already having, like, all your country come and cheer, if you are visiting or you're home. So from that part, it's a little strange.   
But I mean, we agree with our captain, the same. I mean, you just have to play your matches, represent your country anywhere you are. That's our main goal is just to win. It doesn't matter where or how. The thing is, like, you have to just fight and win for your country.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT