ATP MASTER SERIES MADRID
October 16, 2006
Nicolas Massu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  You play against Federer tomorrow.  What does it mean to you, is it a special match?   
 NICOLAS MASSU:  Yes, I know I'm going to play tomorrow at 8.  It's a schedule I like.  I like to play at night.  Here it's indoors, maybe you cannot tell the difference.  And he's the number one of the world.  It's going to be a great match.   
 For me this court is special.  I have good memories.  The best of my career, when I lost in the final two years ago, so I'm enthusiastic.  However, the two times I've played against Federer I've had chances.  I went to the fourth set.  I could have played a fifth one.  It didn't happen.   
 So maybe I have a few chances.  Percentage, of course, is favorable to him.  But I keep my faith 100 percent.  And it's a risk.   
  
  Q.  I need to highlight you playing against Federer tomorrow.  How can you defeat him?   
 NICOLAS MASSU:  First of all, I need to play my own game.  Everyone says Federer is the most comprehensive and complete player in the world.  Why?  Because he has very few weak points.  I need to keep my rhythm, my pace, play my own game.  And try to play long points, long balls.   
 Two times I've played against him.  He played great, but he gave me a few chances at some points.  This is the third time I'm facing him in the first rounds.  It's a pity that we are not further on in the tournament.   
 This year I have faced very difficult players in the first rounds, but I'm going to take this chance.  And I hope everything changes in this tournament.   
  
  Q.  People think this tournament is a duel between Nadal and Federer.  What do you think about this?   
 NICOLAS MASSU:  Of course they're the favorite players.  They're numbers one and two in the world.  But I don't think they're thinking about the final.  I think they're thinking about their next match.   
 Nadal will be thinking about how to defeat his next rival.  Any of them knows that they can lose a match with the least error.  Anyone here can win or defeat any other player.   
  
  Q.  What's happened to Gaudio?   
 NICOLAS MASSU:  Match was strange.  I kept -- kept to 3-Love.  Then he became enthusiastic.  I played a little bit well into the 3-Love.  It was a drive I gave, and that was the last point I won.  And I went to rest.  I sat down and I saw him coming towards me.  He gave me his hand, shook hands, and I didn't understand what was happening.  And he said, "No, I'm not feeling that good."   
 And then when he told me that, one of my last serves, as I was serving, I remember him kneeling down a little bit, but I didn't associate or think he was feeling ill until he told me.   
  
  Q.  I think the way you have won is not as you expected because it's not a real victory.  Maybe you wished to play three sets?   
 NICOLAS MASSU:  Well, the most important thing is to win.  Sometimes you need luck.  Sometimes you are not as lucky.  This year I think I haven't been that lucky.  So I cannot say.  I don't know if it's a good or bad victory.  The most important thing is to win.  I'm sorry for him, for Gaudio because he comes from Argentina, and it's upsetting not to -- to withdraw from a match.  But if you're not feeling well, you cannot win.  That's for sure.  Players are very fit, and tennis is like this.  Thank you.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT