NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 22, 2006
Nicolas Massu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  April 7th is coming soon.  You'll be on your favorite surface:  Grass.   
 NICOLAS MASSU:  Favorite or not favorite?   
  Q.  You've won some matches on grass.  You've won some matches at Wimbledon.  How difficult is this Davis Cup tie going to be for you?   
 NICOLAS MASSU:  Not really -- when you get more preparation, maybe you play better.  But in the last two years, I played just Wimbledon.  I didn't play the tournaments before that.   
 Yeah, I always win some matches in grass.  I remember that I played Nottingham for two times and I won the two first matches.  Wimbledon, I make one time the third round and two times the second round.  In Juniors, I won in the Wimbledon in doubles, and Queen's in doubles, so.  I made quarters in Wimbledon also in Juniors.   
 So I have a little experience.  I try to do my best when I play there.  But of course that is the surface that more I don't have too much experience there, but I try to do my best.   
  Q.  The United States does not want you and Gonzalez to sit back on the baseline and slam shots back.  That's maybe why they picked it.   
 NICOLAS MASSU:  What you say, in the doubles?   
  Q.  In singles.   
 NICOLAS MASSU:  What your question?   
  Q.  The United States picked grass because they seem to be afraid that you and Gonzalez will sit back on the baseline, and you both hit the ball very, very --   
 NICOLAS MASSU:  Yeah, all the players have different style of game, so me and Fernando, we are aggressive players from the baseline.  So of course in grass we have to play more in the net, go more for to make some volleys.  It's going to be difficult for the doubles.  We going to have to change a little bit.  We cannot stay in the back making just winners or try to hit the ball from the baseline.   
 I don't know.  We gonna have like maybe one or two weeks for practice there, so I don't know.  I don't know.   
 Is a different court, but is nice to play against the United States in grass.  Is going to be a good experience for us.  Is the first time that we are in the quarterfinals, so we gonna try to do our best.   
  Q.  Will you play doubles at this tournament?   
 NICOLAS MASSU:  Yeah, we play together in Indian Wells and here, so we gonna practice the doubles for Davis Cup.   
  Q.  And then if you go out, you go to Fisher Island and work there?   
 NICOLAS MASSU:  Yeah, Davis Cup captain arrive today, so we are taking care about that.  Depends on how we do here.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT