KIA CLASSIC
March 22, 2018
Kassidy Teare
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So was it everything you ever dreamed of?
KASSIDY TEARE: Not quite.  There was a couple putts I left out there.  The one on the last hole definitely was very, very makable.
I did all the hard stuff right today, and I think that's what made it feel easy today.  Staying in the fairway, staying on the right parts of the green, you know, makes this golf course look pretty easy.
You hit one in the rough, miss one fairway, and you realize how quickly this place can go downhill.
Yeah, everything went to plan.  Couple more putts this week and I'll be happy.
Q. Did you have a good group following you?
KASSIDY TEARE: My family?
Q. Yeah.
KASSIDY TEARE: Yeah, I think a lot of them are hoping to come out on the weekend when they don't have work.
No, all my favorite people were here, so it's fine.
Q. So who all would that be?
KASSIDY TEARE: My fiancee is here; my mom and dad are both here; good friend of ours; my fiancee's dad; my head coach is college is here.
Yeah, and I actually have family in town from Canada to watch this.
Q. That's cool.
KASSIDY TEARE: Yeah.
Q. So is this the first time they've seen you play in person at an LPGA event?
KASSIDY TEARE: I know that this is my fiancee's first time.  He saw me play on the Symetra Tour once and a couple times in college.  He just told me like, This is very different.
Q. Different how?
KASSIDY TEARE: I think my family and stuff is surprised by the scale of the tournaments and the tents and the fans.  People are actually here to watch us play.  It's so new even to me.  It's a lot of fun though.
Q. Is it relieving to be able to play well?
KASSIDY TEARE: Yeah, I always felt like it's more fun to play in front of people.  I never thought it was a nerves, a nervous thing.  It was, Cool.  I don't have to explain to people that I'm working really hard.  When I say I barley missed a putt, they get to see it.  It's kind of nice.
I know my family is so stoked to be here, just like I am.
Q. Have you had time to do stuff away from the course?  What have you been up to?
KASSIDY TEARE: Sleeping in my own bed has been really nice.  Hanging out with my dog.  I don't know.  Just nice to hang out with family and take it easy this week.
Q. What kind of dog?
KASSIDY TEARE: I have a golden, Doug.  He was in my Getty images.
Q. Have you seen those pictures?
KASSIDY TEARE: I haven't.  They told me they would come out this weekend.
Q. So that's like Doug from Up?
KASSIDY TEARE: Yeah, yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT