KIA CLASSIC
March 21, 2018
Kassidy Teare
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What's it like being back here now that you're playing in your LPGA rookie season?  
KASSIDY TEARE: It's kind of full circle.  This has kind of been an interesting journey.  I think it's interesting to be back -- with my swing coach we first kind of started taking lessons that top range up here, at Aviara.   
Yesterday going up there and hitting balls was kind of nostalgic.  I can't believe I was 12 hitting balls here, and here I am playing in the Kia Classic.   
 Q.  Yeah.  
KASSIDY TEARE: It's kind of cool.   
 Q.  So how many times do you think you've played this course?  Too many to count?  
KASSIDY TEARE: Not a ton actually.  It was pretty prestigious if you were playing out here.  I've played out here a couple of junior events, so maybe 12 times.  But I've changed a lot since the last time I played here.  I was like maybe 15 the last I'm I played here.  It's been a while.   
 Q.  Has the area changed a lot since then?  
KASSIDY TEARE: A little.  A little growing.  A little more apartment complexes.  The course is still as beautiful as ever.  Seem like the flowers never die out here.   
 Q.  So three starts so far in your rookie season?  
KASSIDY TEARE: That's correct.   
 Q.  How have you felt about your game so far?  
KASSIDY TEARE: I think it's definitely -- I mean, it's obviously a huge adjustment coming from Symetra or college, but last week was real close to really good.   
I think this week I'm hoping I peak at the right time.  It would be fun to play really, really well this week in front of all my friends and family.   
 Q.  Yeah.  Anything in your game that's working really well for you in particular?  
KASSIDY TEARE: I think a huge advantage I'm going to have out here is off the tee.  I think it's incredibly important to hit the fairway, especially with the rough as long as it is right now.  Just coming into these huge greens, coming from to the fairway is a lot easier than coming from the rough.   
I'm hoping that's going to be a big advantage.   
 Q.  What are you working on?  
KASSIDY TEARE: A lot of stuff that I'm working on right now is actually pretty mental.  I feel really good in my swing.  I'm not making too many big changes right now.  A lot of maintaining.  Just staying warm and ready.   
A lot of it is just mental.  It's just trying to deal with the expectations and all these things you're going through playing out here.  You just want to play so well all the time, and it's not always your week.   
 Q.  What are your goals this year?  
KASSIDY TEARE: This year?   
 Q.  Or in the future.  
KASSIDY TEARE: Obviously this year is going to be a big learning curve just being a rookie, being new.  Two events ago was my first LPGA event I had ever even been to.  I never even came and watched an LPGA event growing up.  This is like super new.   
I think my goal is just to feel comfortable and like really trust that I'm supposed to be here and I belong here.  Believe it and play like it, you know.   
 Q.  So growing up then did you see yourself here?  
KASSIDY TEARE: Yeah.  I think I have for a long time.  I think maybe a little later than some.  Like when I started really imagining myself out here I was probably in high school when I really started playing competitively.   
Yeah, once I started playing and I knew I wanted to do this, especially going to college for it, it was like, Okay, I want to give it my all.  I think when I'm picturing myself playing professionally it was like this week is what plays in my mind.  My friends, family are there; the ropes are there; the cameras are there.   
It was like this is where I was playing in my mind.   
 Q.  Wow.  
KASSIDY TEARE: Yeah.   
 Q.  That's awesome.  
KASSIDY TEARE: Yeah.   
 Q.  Will there be a lot of family and friends coming up?  
KASSIDY TEARE: I think so, yeah.  As long as no one chickens out with the rain coming.  We melt here in California.   
 Q.  So I hear.  How far away did you grow up from here?  
KASSIDY TEARE: Like ten minutes.   
 Q.  Did you go to school in the area?  
KASSIDY TEARE: Yeah, probably 15 minutes from here.  Just a little east of the coast.   
 Q.  So you're like a superstar?  
KASSIDY TEARE: No, no.  Definitely not.   
 Q.  No paparazzi?  
KASSIDY TEARE: Not yet.  Maybe in ten years when I've made millions.   
 Q.  Is there an event other than this one that you knew you were going to play that you're looking forward to playing most this year?  
KASSIDY TEARE: I'm really looking forward to playing in Europe.  Any of the European events I get into I cannot wait.  I've never been to Europe before.  I've been to Australia before and the Bahamas was new.   
Playing golf over in Europe is a whole different game, and I'm really looking forward to that.   
 Q.  Have you traveled a decent amount in the past?  Just vacation or...  
KASSIDY TEARE: Not really.  You know, I've lived 30 minutes from Mexico my whole life and never been to Mexico.  Been to Canada; got some family up there.  But probably like twice.  That was the extent of my traveling.  Mostly U.S.   
 Q.  Anybody as far as like out on tour that has helped you just get your feet off the ground as a rookie?  
KASSIDY TEARE: I think when we do with like -- they kind of give a group as a rookie.  I've got Chris (indiscernible) and Heather from staff that's on staff with you guys; Maria Torres and Gemma.  You know, those are my people in my group.  It helps to have a group and that's nice.  I don't have alumni out here.  I know a couple rookies that came from the Symetra Tour just from college, but not a ton of people.   
Everybody has been so helpful and nice.  It hasn't been difficult to feel comfortable walking around.   
 Q.  Long Beach State, right?  
KASSIDY TEARE: Yes.   
 Q.  First player from Long Beach State?  
KASSIDY TEARE: Sue Ewart, who was my assistance coach for a year, she made it back in the day.  She is probably 60.  She is older, yeah.   
 Q.  Would she have gone by that name back then?  
KASSIDY TEARE: I don't know.  Maybe she had a different last name.  She was married, so maybe different.  I'm sure if you look at Long Beach State LPGA that's probably the first thing to come up.  She would have been the only other one I know of.   
 Q.  She didn't win or anything?  
KASSIDY TEARE: She might have.  I feel bad I don't know that.  She might have.  She was a really, really good player.   
 Q.  Is that who was out here?  Did you have someone else?  You said your swing coach was here?  
KASSIDY TEARE: Oh, no, swing coach is Ted Norby.  I've been with him since high school.   
 Q.  Local guy?  
KASSIDY TEARE: Yeah, yeah.   
 Q.  Where does he work?  
KASSIDY TEARE: Out of St. Mark's in San Marcos.  He used to work here under Kip, which the main guy up at the range up.  Many I think he still is.  But yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT