NBA INDIA GAMES 2019
September 27, 2019
Doug McDermott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We have Doug McDermott from the Indiana Pacers is with us. We'll throw it to Doug so he can give us some opening remarks. Doug?   
DOUG McDERMOTT: Hey, guys, it's Doug McDermott here with the Indiana Pacers. Just back in the United States right now getting ready for training camp starting tomorrow in Indiana. We're all excited to get back to work. It's been a good offseason for everyone, and we've been looking forward to this India trip for a long time, so we're excited to get over there and be around everyone and be around some great fans and play in front of some great atmospheres, and we're excited to put a good product on the floor.   
 Q.  Just wanted to ask you, this game, these two games involve a huge amount of travel to conditions and climate that are totally different than what you will encounter in the season. How do you think it will help you in preparing for your upcoming season?  
DOUG McDERMOTT: Yes, I think it's really important. I think we're going to play in front of a great atmosphere over there, and obviously the NBA season, we play in front of some great crowds, but with the population of where we're going in India, it's going to be crazy. I think it'll prepare us all for the regular season and the type of environments we see over here in the NBA, and I know everyone will be really excited over there to see us and the Kings. I think both sides are looking forward to using it as a chance to help us going forward.   
 Q.  Do you think the amount of travel that these two games involve will kind of impact the players overall?  
DOUG McDERMOTT: Yeah, you know, I think it's a lot of travel for sure, but I think a lot of us have been mentally prepared for it for a long time, and our staff, our training staff, our coaching staff, they've all done a great job of prepping us for the travel, and we're going to be well-rested, and I think it'll be great getting out there on the floor, and then once we come back, there will definitely be an adjustment period with the time zones, but I think we'll be just fine.   
 Q.  There are a lot of people already excited in India for these games. On the first of the two days that you guys play, you'll be playing in front of 3,000 boys and girls from 70 schools, which are part of a program back here in India. First of all, they'll be trying to gather all the inspiration that they can from watching you guys play. What message would you like to send across to those kids who want to be basketball players and basketball stars in the future? And how much of an impact do you think these two games will create in India as far as basketball is concerned?  
DOUG McDERMOTT: Yeah, I mean, I think it'll be a huge impact, and I think just being around the kids, being able to show them the way we play, I think it can grow the game even more in India. I think there's room for growth all around the world for our sport, and I think we're excited to get over there and show them our style of play, and it'll give kids something that can see us with their own eyes and be able to work on stuff as they get older after seeing us play.   
And I think just overall coming to India, I think it's just such a great market for basketball to be in, and I think it's a very entertaining sport, and obviously America really loves basketball, and we want to try and make basketball even more popular over in India and across the whole world.   
 Q.  Have you made overseas trips like this one before in your career? Have you played either preseason or regular-season games in other countries?  
DOUG McDERMOTT: This will be my first time doing it with an NBA team. I've never been able to go across the pond with an NBA team. I know the Pacers obviously have gone to London and a few other places, but this will be my first time with this. I played on the USA Basketball U19 team when I was in college, and we played in Lithuania and Latvia, and then before my senior year in college we played in the World University Games in Russia, in Kazan, Russia, so this will be my first time in the NBA, which I'm excited about.   
 Q.  You guys have a new team in many respects, a lot of new players. Does a trip like this that will kind of force you guys to be together for a long period of time have an impact on a bonding process?  
DOUG McDERMOTT: I think so. I think that's huge. Obviously we know we have a lot of new players on this team. We've had a chance to be around each other quite a bit the last few weeks, so that's been really good, but I think a 16-, 17-hour flight you can learn a lot about guys and just get to know each other. I think it'll be great for us. We have a great spot lined up when we get to India to stay, and I know we have some stuff planned as a group. I think it'll be huge getting to know each other before we head into the NBA battle.   
 Q.  You mentioned the workouts you guys have been having. Can you give a general impression from what you've seen and experienced in those scrimmages and workouts?  
DOUG McDERMOTT: Yeah, they're going great. Obviously our coaching staff is really pushing us, and I think the new signings we have, there's just a lot of talented guys, and young. I think the oldest guy on the team is 29. It's kind of crazy being one of the vets on the team. I've just been very impressed with our young guys. The growth they've made with Aaron [Holiday] and Alize [Johnson] and Goga [Bitadze] even I think looks really good, and TJ Leaf had a great summer. I've been really impressed with those guys, how much they've been in the gym this summer, you can tell, and obviously the vets start rolling in a little later and everyone has looked good. Malcolm [Brogdon] and TJ [Warren] are very impressive players, and really looking forward to getting on the floor with some of these guys.   
 Q.  Is there anything specific to India that you're really looking forward to on this trip? I assume you know that Harrison Barnes from the Kings has been to India recently, so maybe you've heard something from him or just generally?  
DOUG McDERMOTT: Yeah, I'm just looking forward to just seeing the whole culture. I know it's just such a big city. We obviously have big cities here over in the U.S., but it's even bigger over there. I haven't got a chance to see much of the world, so just being able to see the different stuff, the buildings, the architecture and trying to get some of the good Indian food because we obviously have good food over here, but I think just to get that authentic Indian food is something I'm really looking forward to, and I'm going to try and see if I can sneak away Harrison from the Kings so we can go and explore a little bit around the city. We've been talking the last few weeks how we're going to try and make that happen.   
 Q.  Is there a particular Indian food that you want to try?  
DOUG McDERMOTT: I'm going to be honest with you; I don't really know a whole lot even about Indian food, so I'm open for whatever. To the fans over there, I'm ready for whatever, and I'm excited to taste some good food. I know they have good rice. That's one of the things.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT