NBA DRAFT
June 26, 2014
Doug McDermott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  DOUG McDERMOTT:   Hello.   It's been a long wait.   I've been back in the room just waiting for the trade to confirm, but it's just been an unbelievable process for me and my family just to get to this point. 
I'm just really excited to land in Chicago.   That's actually where I've been training the last two months.   So it makes things easier. 
Just this whole draft process has been pretty crazy, a lot of workouts, a lot of traveling, and it's awesome to see all that finally pay off. 

Q.   Congratulations, Doug.   Chicago was a great defensive team, but they've struggled on offense, and you're somebody that can score the ball.   What are your thoughts about going to that team and being able to help them on the offensive end? 
DOUG McDERMOTT:   I feel like I can really do that.   I feel like, with my ability to shoot it, I think I can help them from day one, and I definitely have to get a lot better defensively because Coach Thibodeau is a defensive‑minded guy. 
I'm working on that already.   I know what it takes.   I'm a competitor.   So I'm looking forward to learning some of the different ways. 

Q.   Doug, you mentioned going to a very defensive‑minded team.   That's not what you're known for.   How do you change?   How do you evolve at the next level to become a defensive‑minded player? 
DOUG McDERMOTT:   I've just got to be a sponge and soak it all in from all the guys on the team and coaches.   They know what they're doing.   The numbers don't lie, how good a defensive team Coach has been. 
I've just got to be able to absorb all the information, get some practice in, play some Summer League with them, and just get adjusted to the system, and I think I'll be just fine.

Q.   Has it sunk in yet, Derrick Rose, Joakim Noah, maybe Carmelo Anthony? 
DOUG McDERMOTT:   Not at all.   I've just been trying to enjoy the moment.   D Rose is one of my favorite players.   I was a huge Gator fan.   So I love Joakim.   I can't even believe I'm about to join their team. 

Q.   About Coach Thibodeau and about the culture of the Chicago Bulls of playing hard, having a lot of heart, being able to get through adversity, talk about how that's going to really inspire you to be able to step your game up quickly in the pros. 
DOUG McDERMOTT:   I think it's a great fit.   I'm a four‑year guy.   I've been through a lot of adversity.   I know what it takes to win. 
I just really think this is a great fit.   I'm a competitor.   You can obviously tell by Coach Thibodeau that he's a serious competitor, too.   I think we're going to get along great. 
Even though I played for my dad for four years, I'm ready for that next step to play for a different coach.

Q.   You want to be a head coach down the line.   So Coach Thibodeau will be great inspiration, right? 
DOUG McDERMOTT:   Definitely.   A guy named Kyle Korver, who played at Creighton and who's on the Hawks now, played for the Bulls for a couple seasons.   He told me‑‑ he just got off the phone with me.   He's telling me, I'm going to love it in Chicago. 

Q.   What has this night been like for you with the trade?   And how great does it feel to see they gave up two picks for you and wanted you that badly? 
DOUG McDERMOTT:   It means a lot.   I just got off the phone with Coach Thibodeau and Gar Forman and John Paxson.   That means a lot to me, people excited to have me on their team.   It's a different process when you go to college, you've got to pick where you want to go, and now you're relying on those guys to pick you. 
It meant a lot that they saw that in me, and I'm just really excited.

Q.   Quick question:   You're a Midwest guy.   I imagine that this is probably a good fit for that reason.   I was wondering if you could talk about the non‑basketball opportunities by being in a city like Chicago.   From basketball, what would you want to do if you weren't in this game that maybe Chicago could offer when your career is over? 
DOUG McDERMOTT:   Chicago is a great city.   I got my marketing degree at Creighton.   I feel like that can apply well in a big city like Chicago, and I feel like it's going to help me out down the road. 
Like I said earlier, I plan on being a coach someday in basketball‑‑ you know, whenever that ends.   So there's not a better guy to listen to on a day‑to‑day basis than Coach Thibodeau. 

Q.   Did you see the Bulls played last year, and what were your impressions of them? 
DOUG McDERMOTT:   Yeah, I was actually at a playoff game this year against the Wizards with my agent.   So it's pretty ironic that I'm ending up with them.   He represents Bradley Beal, so we were able to watch them play. 
I just see a team that plays really good defense.   They're sometimes a couple baskets away from winning games, and I think I can provide that.   I think I can help on the offensive end. 
Also, I think I can contribute right away just being the competitor I am, and I'm going to bring the hard work to the table from day one. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT