TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 17, 2014
Cameron Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DOUG MILNE:   We'd like to welcome Connecticut's own Cameron Wilson.   Thanks for joining us prior to the start of the 2014 Travelers Championship.   Coming in with some steam; just last month you learned the NCAA individual title, the first I guess since Tiger in '96 from Stanford to achieve such a feat, so congratulations on that.   Just some thoughts on being here at the 2014 Travelers Championship. 
CAMERON WILSON:   Yeah, it's just a dream come true to make as my pro debut and turn pro.   I live like an hour from here, so this has been sort of a home event if you will.   It's the first place I watched a TOUR event when I was seven or eight.   I can remember Notah Begay winning that year.   Maybe that was '99 or 2000, somewhere in there.   So it's a dream come true to turn pro.   It's a dream come true to do it here, so thanks a bunch to Travelers for the opportunity. 
Also thanks to my sponsors who are IZOD, Lenox Advisors and Callaway for their support, and I thank my parents, as well, who aren't here, but I can't not thank them when I have a microphone in front of me.   Somebody tell them I said that.   So yeah, just a dream come true to make this my pro debut.
DOUG MILNE:   We have also making his debut, Patrick Rodgers was in and he had certainly some nice things to say about you, so I would imagine that it'll be fun to watch him kind of as he makes his way through the week, as well. 
CAMERON WILSON:   Yeah, totally.   I think it's awesome that both of us are making our pro debuts here.   I think he's been here once before so it's a little bit of a return thing for him, but still, always exciting to make a pro debut.   It was great to be his teammate.   I learned a lot from Patrick, enjoyed watching him play, and of course he has a bright future, but I'm sure it'll be good to know somebody else out here on TOUR and have somebody not rooting against me every week. 

Q.   Did you and Patrick make this decision to make your pro debut at the same tournament?   And have you shown him around Connecticut at all?
CAMERON WILSON:   No, it just sort of happened that way.   I think this was a good day and a good situation for both of us I guess for different reasons.   But it just sort of happened that way and worked out nicely.   I haven't shown him around Connecticut that much.   I know he's got some family and friends near where I live, so he's been down that ways a little bit.   If he's got any questions, I'm happy to help, but he doesn't need my help that much. 

Q.   Do you have any friendly wagers?
CAMERON WILSON:   Not yet, but‑‑ although I'm used to deflecting those questions because I was a college athlete.   Now my answer might change. 

Q.   Have you played any practice rounds with him?
CAMERON WILSON:   No, I just got in here this morning, and so timing didn't work out. 

Q.   You mentioned that you've had a chance to get out and play.   Just some thoughts on the course and kind of how it sets up to suit your game. 
CAMERON WILSON:   I think it suits my game fine.   You know, it was cool to play the end of the back nine because that's what I remember watching when I was a kid, like hanging out behind 15 and behind 16, so that was a fun stretch.   It'll be fun this weekend.

Q.   Do you have any players out here that you're really looking forward to rubbing elbows with or any players that‑‑ you had mentioned Notah, but players that you really kind of emulated?
CAMERON WILSON:   Not really to be honest.   I think I've always done a good job of just focusing on my own game.   It'll be fun to meet a lot of the TOUR guys, but I've played in a couple Opens by now, so I met a bunch of guys last week at the Open, I played in the Open a couple years ago, and some of the guys that are out here, I played junior and amateur golf with, too.   Some guys were in college when I was in college.   Although they're pros, I've been seeing some of these guys as long as I can remember at the events I've played in.

Q.   How many friends and family are you expecting? 
CAMERON WILSON:   I don't know how many.   Probably‑‑ I would say probably like 10 to 12 each day, I think, but my mom is handling it.   That's how I'm keeping the distractions away.   I just sent her a bunch of tickets and she's delegating.   She would know more. 

Q.   Are there any players in particular that you've grown up following? 
CAMERON WILSON:   I followed Tiger like everybody did, and I'm lefty, so I always have a soft spot for any lefty golfers, but nobody in particular. 
DOUG MILNE:   Cameron, we appreciate you coming in, and best of luck this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT