NCAA GOLF CHAMPIONSHIPS
May 26, 2014
Conrad Ray
Cameron Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Quite an exciting playoff.   We're joined by student‑athlete Cameron Wilson of Stanford, 6‑under par, winning on the third playoff hole.   
CAMERON WILSON:   It's a huge honor to win this tournament and be on a distinguished list of champions.   Since I've been at Stanford I can think of Tiger and Sandy Tatum off the top of my head.     So it's an honor to do that.   Before I go in the further I want to say how proud I am of my team for playing so well thus far and there's a lot of golf left.   There's a long way to go, but I just want to say before anything else how proud I am of our guys.   
   
 Q.   Weather conditions have changed quite a bit.   We've gone from a lot of rain issues to wind, which really changed how the course played.   How do you feel you responded to the wind?   
CAMERON WILSON:   I think I did a good job.   I think the greens were a lot faster and that caught me out in the beginning of the round.   After a couple putts where I realized what was going on I adjusted pretty well and had some really good lie putts at the end of the round.  
   
 Q.   Given the magnitude of a tournament like that did you let yourself get nerves at any point or was it easy to stay steady?   
CAMERON WILSON:   I was a little nervous but more than anything I was really excited.   I was really excited for the opportunity, and I made it a point to just enjoy the day and everything that came with it.   More than anything I was just really loving the chance to win and loving being here with my guys.   Once I knew from coach that we were doing well in the team portion, I really didn't feel that much pressure to win.   
   
 Q.   You've made great progress over the past four years.   What do you think the biggest difference is between you as a player now and then?  
CAMERON WILSON:   It's a long answer, but I would just say I'm better.   That's all I would say.   
   
 Q.   What's the long version of the answer?  
CAMERON WILSON:   Nothing I would share.   
   
 Q.   How disappointed were you after No.18, and did you kind of have to regroup a little bit on the range going into the playoff?   
CAMERON WILSON:   I was disappointed, sure, but I hit a couple shots that I liked on the last hole.   The tee shot I hit almost exactly how I wanted to.   Didn't hit it that much further left than I was hoping to.   And the second shot I did what I meant to, and the rough caught my club.   I really didn't stray from my plan that much, and I didn't beat myself up.   Then when we got to the playoff, I was just thinking how cool it was.   The sun was setting and the fescue was everywhere.   We had the American flags out, and I've known Ollie for a while.   He's a friend.   As much as I wanted to win, Ollie is a friend and so I was just thinking how cool it was.   It was a really cool scene.   
   
 Q.   Before 17 in regulation, you had multiple chances to birdie, lipped some.   Were you wondering if you were going to get to that 7 number at some point?  
CAMERON WILSON:   I wasn't really thinking about it to be honest.   I didn't know where I stood in the individual standings for a long time.   I didn't think I knew until I got done with 15 because there's a leaderboard behind 15.   Other than that, I didn't really know.   I had some close calls, but those are tough holes, and I mean, I had a close call on 11, but 11 is a hard hole and I made a par so I wasn't really that distraught about it.   Hit a really good shot into 14 that was a little bit unlucky, so that was a good look and I did everything right there, and hit a great shot into 15 and almost made one there, but that's a tough hole.   
   
 Q.   Coach, what do you think Cameron has done best this week to allow him to win the championship?   
CONRAD RAY:   Well, I think Cameron‑‑ let me just say, I think Cameron is probably the most under‑the‑radar player here.   He's had a great year, but not many people have been talking about Cameron Wilson.   So to see him pull off a victory today in our biggest championship that we know is really cool, for Stanford, for our program, and for all the hard work that he's put in and the efforts that he's made over the last four years.   He has gotten better and he probably doesn't want to tell you about it because he's worked at it.   It's come with a lot of trials and tribulations, ups and downs.   I remember him freshman year, and to see him where he's at sitting in front of you is pretty cool.  
Cameron is one of these guys that attacks the golf course.   He's a ball striker, and if there's not a better course to find a ball striker's paradise, it's Prairie Dunes?  
   
 Q.   Coach, how would you assess your team's play through this portion of the tournament?   
CONRAD RAY:   I think we're really fired up.   I think to see the contributions across the board from all of our guys today in some really tough conditions, and the wind came up, we felt fortunate to have a good draw.   I think being able to play 36 holes on Saturday and then to have a day off and then to come back out.   But today was all you wanted this afternoon.   Our guys stood up to that.   We know that this is just the start of a lot more golf.   It's neat to see them all fired up and ready to go for the matches tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT