UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN SOCCER MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 26, 2015
Paula Wilkins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We will take an opening statement from Head Women's Soccer Coach, Paula Wilkins, and open it up to questions.
COACH WILKINS: Thank you for this opportunity to go a little earlier today.  We have practice right after that, there is no rest for the wicked.  It was a great result on Saturday against Maryland, something typical that our team has done all season, just kind of consistent in being able to play together as a team, and putting an effort in on both sides of the ball, and it was really a team success in terms of the just the victory, and also clinching a share of the Big Ten.
And as soon as I say "share of the Big Ten," I told the players that we have some more work to do this week in preparation for Northwestern, which will be our final game in the Big Ten, and it's important, I think, for this team to kind of complete the journey they have had since the beginning of the Big Ten, and that means we have to do all the right things in terms of recovering and preparing for Northwestern.
I know it's something that they will look forward to, winning the title outright, but obviously has a very challenging Northwestern in front of them, who has done very well this year.
We're going to have to continue with what we have done with our preparation, but also with our effort and our focus to get that result, and then also having the opportunity to possibly host the Big Ten Tournament in the upcoming weeks.  So it's been an exciting journey with this group, but it is not even close to being over.
Q. Did you see this coming at the end of September?
COACH WILKINS: No, and actually after the result against Penn State, I think I said this before, I told the team we lost for nothing at Penn State, and I said you have to decide what type of team you need to be and want to be, and I think really that jolted some of them into doing what they're doing now, and I think it also took some pressure off them.  I think that they started playing and focusing on one game at I time.  I think that made a huge difference, so at the end of September I didn't really see that, but you could feel the momentum building, and I think it's something they have done quite well.
Q. Understanding that, as you said, that the journey is not compete in what you want to do, what does it mean to the program and especially for you, if you came here and set goals to kind of check this off, check that off the list to have a Big Ten Championship now under your belt?
COACH WILKINS: What I told them was you know last year we won the tournament, and that was a three-game series to win at least a share of the league, that's over a long period of time, and that's consistency over a long period of time, and I told them that I was more proud of that than anything.
But I think for me, with the program -- and one of my first players when I first got here, her name is Chris Leskevich (ph) was at the game, and she was so happy, and she was supportive, and I said, "It started with you.  You decided to make a change."  I think the coaches that they have changed here, their attitude, their mentality, all that, they've changed all the that, and it's great to be a coach and be a part of, because obviously without our ups and downs, through my nine-year career, it's just nice to see that pay off and all the work of all the players throughout the years have done that.
Q. That line that you said you laid on them when you said, "You've got to decide what type of team you're going to be," as a coach, is that something that you like put in the memory banks for later and say, of if a few years down the road it's a similar situation, I'm going to use that, because it worked that first time?
COACH WILKINS: Um, I think sometimes you do.  I think every team is so different, and you've got to know their personalities.  I think for me I was trying to poke the seniors at that time, because they have a lot of pride and a lot of competitive mentality.  And I know they take a lot of pride in what they do and the work that they've put into it.  So I'm going to have to make sure the group is right for those words, but it's definitely one that I'm going to keep in my back pocket.
Q. So you could host all the way through the Big Ten Tournament?  Could you explain?
COACH WILKINS: With a tie or a win.  This year the Big Ten Tournament has been changed.  It's a two weekend format, so -- with the top team hosting.  So if we win the first round of the Big Ten Tournament, then the Final Four would be at the highest seed that's still available, so that's -- definitely a possibility and a huge advantage.
We still have a lot of NCAA implications ahead of us, so, you know, I think it's important.  For me, we're starting six seniors right now who have had a huge impact on the program over the last four years, and we would like to see them in some more home games, for sure.  So I think the game against Northwestern has a little bit more meaning than just the Big Ten implications, but just getting them more home games, because to be honest, this year the crowds have been fantastic.
They've grown every game, and hopefully we get some more people out there on Wednesday.  The student-athlete population has been great.  We have had the men's soccer team out there, swimmers out there, football out there, so, you know, even to feel that vibe has been pretty amazing.
Q. What kind of focus or even sense of urgency do you feel with the senior class to keep this going as long as they can and keep the season alive?
COACH WILKINS: Anything -- anytime you talk to a coach, we talk about the experience our athletes have, and you want to keep providing that experience, because those are memories they will keep forever.  Even on Saturday when they got their hats and their tee shirts, those memories are something that they will hold on to, and it's incredible, the selfie generation.  I can't imagine how many selfies I've seen taken in the amount of time, like when I won it was, like, "Cheers" and then you walked away, basically.  But, you know, those memories you want for them, and that's what you want from their experience here at Wisconsin.
And to let them know they've created that, and what I feel confident with right now is that those seniors will make sure whatever happens, they're going to put their best effort forward, and that's all you can ask for from your team and from players.
Q. Rose gets so much of the attention.  Who else deserves that attention?  Who else has helped you get to this point?
COACH WILKINS: I like to say everybody.  They've all played different roles.  I think our midfield has been exceptionally well in their mobility.  I was just watching film of the Maryland game, and their ability and their mobility has been great.  The defense has been right beside it, led by Brianna Stelzer, who is one of the best defenders that I've coached in my 21 years, just her focus, and her intensity.  And, you know, she throws it out every game, and if you ever see her, you don't want to be tackled by her, for sure, like if you were walking down the hall, you would move to the other side, and she has been great.  And even now with Kylie, she is kind of the brains of the whole operation back there.  You know, to single one person out, I think Rose would even tell you that it's everybody.
Like I said, our defending from front to back has been fantastic, and we have defended higher up on the field and it's made a difference.  I know she would easily say that it's all of her teammates, too, so type of player she is.
Q. You warned us last week that Maryland was going to be tough, so it's 70 minutes into the game, 75, and there was no score.  What was going through your mind?
COACH WILKINS: Oh no.  You know, we have been in this position a lot, and I think the players have a confidence about them that it's going to happen with the work that they have had, but what we talked about is somebody has to be special, you know, and it was Micaela this time.  But also on the other side, defensively we had to shut down some of their problems and their issues, Alex Anthony, especially.  But there is a belief now, and as a coach, that belief is something that you can't coach; it's the experience that they have.
So I wasn't -- I wasn't as worried as people would think because, it's the game of soccer, right, it comes down to those moments, but a little bit, a little gray hair but happy it ended the way it did.
THE MODERATOR: Anything else?  Thank you, Coach.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT