UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN SOCCER MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 15, 2014
Paula Wilkins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


  COACH WILKINS:   Really excited on Friday to get the over time win against Michigan State who is undefeated for our first Big Ten win.   Really pleased with the performance of Becca Harrison who scored two of our first goals of her career at Wisconsin to have us win in overtime which was pretty dramatic.   Needless to say, pretty disappointed with our results on Sunday against Michigan where we lost in the last second of the game. 
I think that one thing as a coach you is never want to lose a game, especially in Big Ten play, but I think the players are really focused on learning from the mistakes in those games and moving forward and preparing for Nebraska, which is a different feeling than we had last year at this time. 
I think there are definitely things‑‑ I think when you go 7‑0, it's hard sometimes to fix the little things because you keep winning.   And I do think this gives us a great opportunity to refocus ourselves and get back to what we do well. 

Q.   Was the team a little too high on the horse, do you think, heading into Michigan? 
COACH WILKINS:   No, I don't think so at all.   I think this group has a pretty good leadership group.   I think that the two games coming off of Washington and Seattle, and having hard travel; and driving to Michigan, Michigan State was hard travel.   Our legs were pretty tired on Sunday. 
Michigan presented a really difficult challenge.   They played five in the back, which we had not seen and we could not really break it down.   So it was a tactical thing that we were not able to figure out right away. 
I think when you have your leading scorer who is third in the country out in both games, it's a little bit challenging and we are really thin right now on the forward position.   So I think that also lended us to having us defend a little bit more because we couldn't keep it up top and I think we have to find different ways to approach it for against Nebraska.

Q.   How excited is this team to get a chance to bounce back from the first loss hosting the defending conference champion and Nebraska home on Saturday?
COACH WILKINS:   The ironic part about this is that last year, we lost to Nebraska with one second to go in the game, so it's very ironic I guess.   But I think that's in the back of their minds. 
But I also know that they know it's a different team and a different season, and no game or no record up to now will make any difference.   I think they are excited to play on Saturday after a football game, and hoping to get a crowd there.   But if I said thatkind of revenge wasn't in the back of their minds right now because it was such a dramatic game last year, I would be lying.   I think they are excited and I think they are more excited to row focus themselves after the last on Sunday.

Q.   Is Cara Walls okay?   Is she going to return sometime soon?
COACH WILKINS:   That's day‑to‑day.   We don't know.   We'll see. 

Q.   Did Genevieve have chance on the last one?
COACH WILKINS:   She did.   Unfortunately one of our players was behind her keeping all three players on side.   She was sort of a sitting duck where she was. 
I think the disappointing part of it was we had two times to clear it, one, a free header at the very beginning and the second one not so clear and we didn't do such a great job. 
When we talk about getting better and taking care of things, that's the things that we have to focus on and learn from and not let it happen again.   I think it was a group focus. 
I would be lying if they all didn't probably think, well, we'll get the over time and win this and didn't really take care of the last little second, and that's what changed the season.

Q.   At 7‑0, what did you guys learn about this group coming out of the gate so strong?
COACH WILKINS:   It helps when you have seniors.   It helps when you have a leading scorer with Cara Walls, and I think it also helps when you have a solid and experienced back line.
One thing we talked about after this weekend is we have only given up one goal since then‑‑ we have to start with that first, and when people have opportunities, then the goal scoring will come.   That's where we are going to go back to our roots and do what we did well at the very beginning.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT