PLAYSTATION FIESTA BOWL: OHIO STATE VS CLEMSON
December 27, 2016
Billy Price
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Do you have to stretch the field to win this game?
BILLY PRICE: We just need to execute.  That's what it comes down to.  And to look at, hey, we need to run this play or do this or this, I don't think it's part of what we need to do.  Again, we just need to execute on our end of it and make sure that the offensive line takes care of their responsibilities, and running backs and so forth and so on.
Q. Any added pressure to score points when you're going up against an offense like Clemson's who essentially every game this year has piled up a bunch of them?
BILLY PRICE: I think there is that -- to be aware what their offense can do.  To play an offensive shootout game, if that's what it comes down to, if the offense has got to score, they've got to score.  So I think that's just make sure we take care of what we need to and execute on our end.
Q. When you look at their front set and up front and the linebackers, who stands out and who could you foresee being a problem?
BILLY PRICE: Well, we prepare for all of them.  So I don't want to say that one person in particular is going to be a problem.  Again, you've got to respect your opponent, you can't take them lightly.  Their linebacker corps is very good.  Their defensive line is very good, big, strong.  They get off the ball.  They're very explosive.
If you don't get a hand on them and you don't slow them down, it's going to be a bad day for your offense.
Q. 42 and 90, both underclassmen.  Is there any edge going into it, knowing that they're young, that maybe you guys know something that they don't?
BILLY PRICE: No.  I don't want to say that, not necessarily just say, hey, because I'm older that I'm better that way.  I have had a little bit more experience just in game time experience and whatnot.  But, again, you've got to stay focused on the task at hand and make sure you go out and execute.
Q. Do they remind you of anybody?
BILLY PRICE: I reference the team up north for us.  Kind of similar to Wormley and their interior guy, just how big and strong those guys were.
Q. The youth on this team, there's been a lot made of the youth on your team and how you guys maybe gel.  What's been the key there?
BILLY PRICE: I think the leadership.  The leadership has a huge role in it.  Again, because if we don't have J.T., Pat Elflein and Raekwon, some of us older guys, again those young guys don't know what really to expect or what's going to happen, make sure that we stay on task.
You have so many distractions and so many things, especially as a young player, being a first-time player at Ohio State, so many distractions, and make sure you stay on path and stay on route.
Q. Is youth overrated in college football.  What do you think?
BILLY PRICE: I think it's accumulation of everything.  If you don't have leadership, you could be all over the map.  If Mike didn't have J.T. as a quarterback, if Mike didn't have Pat as one of his boys, myself, again, you can be straying in different directions, especially with all the temptations and stuff around college football players, period.
Q. As close as you guys were to play in the playoff last year, and play in the stadium, what's it mean to be back in the stadium playing for a playoff?
BILLY PRICE: Just again, very honored thankful to be here.  A lot of hard work has been put into this and we're going to be able to showcase that on Saturday.
Q. You had some former guys go against you in bowl practice.
BILLY PRICE: Yeah, that was fun.  Old guys kicking off some dust.
Q. Were they trying to go hard?
BILLY PRICE: You know, just trying to give us a good look.  So just be appreciative of them.
Q. Throwing, pitching and catching, protecting, is it getting to where you want it to be?
BILLY PRICE: Is that -- what was the question?
Q. Throwing the football, maybe improving that, getting vertical, is that an emphasis?
BILLY PRICE: I don't particularly think it was an emphasis during the bowl season.  Just, again, because if you can't block, then you can't throw the ball downfield.  We put a big emphasis on making sure we were getting better up front.
Q. Do you like where this team is right now?
BILLY PRICE: Yeah.  Got a good mindset going into this game.  Very prepared.  Just really being able to take things in stride and appreciate where we're at and not taking things for granted.  You have 100 some teams wanting to be here.  And there's only four of us here.  Very thankful.
Q. Do you compare their D to Michigan?
BILLY PRICE: Yes, a little bit.  They're big, athletic and explosive.  The guys up front, like the team up north, just exciting for us.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT