NASCAR CUP SERIES: HOLLYWOOD CASINO 400
October 18, 2020
Kevin Harvick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: We are joined by Kevin Harvick. We'll get right into questions for you.   
   
 Q. How frustrating was it knowing that you were behind Joey doing everything you could to try to get around him, then just when it looked like you could, the car just wouldn't lurch by him?  
KEVIN HARVICK: Yeah, I don't know that I ever remember getting to that point, so... Maybe you saw something that I didn't.   
Joey did just a good job of putting his car right in front of ours. With this package, every time you put your car in front of the car behind you, it takes the nose away. We just had a little bit of trouble trying to get the nose to turn when he would take our lane.   
Guys did a great job. Brought a fast car. Just came up one short.   
   
 Q. You are going to Texas next week. How confident are you you can get the job done and lock a spot in the Final 4 next weekend?  
KEVIN HARVICK: Just going to go race and do the things we do every week. You never know how these things are going to play out. Our car was plenty fast to win the race today and just came up one short.   
   
 Q. Obviously you have been with this package for a couple years now. Do you still get frustrated when you're in a situation like this, that you have a faster car and can't get him because of the way the rules are? Or do you look at it more as a pure racing deal?  
KEVIN HARVICK: I think it's how we race, for sure. I think you've become used to that part of it. For me, it's just a scenario that you just become used to. That's part of what we race. I definitely don't make the rules. Just try to do the best that we can each week with whatever situation that we have, go from there.   
Yeah, he did a great job of putting this car where he needed to. We just never had an opportunity to capitalize on anything from a mistake side of it.   
   
 Q. Was it pretty much just waiting for‑ not waiting for him to make mistakes ‑ but you would need him to make a mistake over the last 20 laps or so?  
KEVIN HARVICK: There was a lot of things that could happen with lap cars, him guessing wrong, me being able to run the bottom or run the top or get a good run or something along those lines. It never materialized.   
   
 Q. You've won before in this round where you didn't have to worry about another race. How big of an impact is that, if at all, going into the championship?  
KEVIN HARVICK: Yeah, I think as you look at the next two weeks, obviously it takes definitely some pressure off of him.   
   
 Q. Does that matter when you get to Phoenix or does it not?  
KEVIN HARVICK: I think it could or it couldn't. You never know. I mean, it just allows you to get prepared a little bit better.   
   
 Q. Seeing how you got to size up Logano today, you have two chances to head up your points before heading to Phoenix, a track you're really good at. How confident are you about getting some points in the bank as you get to Texas?  
KEVIN HARVICK: I feel better about Texas than I do here. Our guys did a pretty good job of bringing a whole lot better car than what we had at the first race. If our car's that much better at Texas than it was the first race, it should be a good weekend.   
You just never know how the cautions are going to fall, the strategy, anything like that. You just have to go lap by lap and see where it falls.  
   
 Q. Premature to think about, but what are you going to miss about having Clint Bowyer as a teammate at SHR?  
KEVIN HARVICK: The meetings will probably get longer because he won't get up and leave after he gets bored. Definitely lose some entertainment value, for sure.   
   
 Q. Given your points situation, are you looking at Phoenix at all right now or is it still focus on everything you have to do to clinch first?  
KEVIN HARVICK: I think everything has been pushed into the pile already. All these cars are pretty much prepared throughout the next three weeks, with the travel to Phoenix, Texas, back to Martinsville. Everything is already prepared.   
I don't think we would do anything any different than what we have right now just because of the fact that it's tough to change course right now because of where we are in the schedule and the logistics that have to go with that.   
   
 Q. You've gone on and won a championship before, been in these situations. How do you feel about this team from the year you won the championship? Is everything in place, the same confidence level you can make it all happen?  
KEVIN HARVICK: I feel a lot better after today, getting out of here with a good day, leading laps here. I feel good about that leading into next week.   
I think as you look at Martinsville, I feel a lot better about it than what we were the first race. Obviously the first race we had a whole bunch of problems with no fans, alternator, all the things that went wrong.   
We ran well at Phoenix.   
I think we just have to see how the chips fall in the next three races and see where it all ends up.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Kevin, for taking the time. We'll see you next week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT