MONSTER ENERGY NASCAR CUP SERIES: AAA TEXAS 500
November 3, 2019
Kevin Harvick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Man, three times you were stuck back in traffic. Were you worried in those moments you wouldn't be able to get back to the front? 
KEVIN HARVICK: Well, we had a bad restart one time when we got buried back there, but I think as we came in, we put another set of tires on, we were really able to make up some time. Our car was just so fast through 3 and 4, as long as I could keep my momentum up, I could get up beside him. So it was definitely fast, and speed made up for our Ducks Unlimited Busch Beer Ford Mustang tonight what we lacked a little bit in handling.

Q. How critical was this to get back to Miami and a second shot at a championship?
KEVIN HARVICK: Well, we've already been going down the road. They've already built the car, picked a direction. Like we talked about earlier, we've got so many things that‑‑ so many things that you had to choose from from an aero standpoint, and Homestead is such a unique racetrack. We've already been to the simulator, we've already built the car, and now we've just got to make sure that we do what we think is right and go with our gut and see what happens. 

Q. Again today Keelan set the air pressures before the race and again you win. 
KEVIN HARVICK: Yeah, I think he's three for three or four for four. I think all four races he's set the air pressure this year, so if anything we're helping him with math. It's fun to have him at the racetrack. Had a fun weekend. They have a great zoo here, in case you were wondering. We didn't do much yesterday. 
But just really proud of everybody on this team. Just got to thank everybody from Busch Beer, from Hunt Brothers Pizza, Mobil 1, Jimmy John's, everybody from Haas Automation and Stewart‑Haas Racing, Roush Yates engines for the last‑minute engine change and the things that they worked on to give us all the speed we had here, and it was definitely fun to drive. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT