MONSTER ENERGY NASCAR CUP SERIES: TOYOTA / SAVE MART 350
June 24, 2018
Kevin Harvick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: We are also joined by Kevin Harvick, driver of the No.4 Mobil 1 Ford. Obviously you're the defending race winner from here last year, and you've also been one of the dominant forces this season. Is there anything you wish you would have approached differently today? 
KEVIN HARVICK: No, I think everybody did a good job. Martin just had a little bit faster car than we did today. At the beginning of the race, we could outrun him just a little bit, and as the second stage got over, we just started struggling with the brakes on our car, and when the brakes started not working as good getting into the corner, I started carrying more speed through the center of the corner, and then it started to burn the rear tires off on exit. Just kind of a few things compounded there to add up to a few things that didn't work out to win the race today. 

Q. I was watching as the cars came in off the racetrack, and it's amazing how clean they are. There's not a whole lot of body damage, a lot of carnage. Is everybody just getting better at road racing, or was it much harder out there than it looked? 
KEVIN HARVICK: You know, this is always a tough race, and it's not always about slamming into people. I think as you look at the restarts, that's usually where the most damage comes, and we didn't have many of those today. 

Q. Did Truex's late pit stop confuse you, surprise you? It looked like it sure helped them. 
KEVIN HARVICK: It didn't affect our day at all. I don't think it would have been any different of an outcome. 

Q. Clint just spoke how you have to be focused and the track was demanding. How would you explain it? Was it demanding to you, as well? 
KEVIN HARVICK: Well, any road race is demanding. I think when you look at how many things are happening and the pace falloff that you fight here, there's just a lot of things to think about as you go through the day. You're starting to fight different problems as you go through the day and get later in the race and things start to get harder just because the car doesn't feel as good, it doesn't stop as good. Things just don't feel as good as they did at the beginning of the race. It's a very demanding day, a lot of things going on, and especially when you don't get too many breaks out there on a day like this. It's hard on everything, on your feet, your legs, your arms, your head, just because you're bouncing off the curves, you're slamming on the brakes. So there's just a lot going on inside the car. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT