NASCAR HALL-OF-FAME INDUCTION CEREMONY
January 20, 2017
Patricia DePottey
Kevin Harvick
Kyle Petty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  KEVIN HARVICK: Permanently dressed in the finest wool suit and fedora hat, this inductee installed professionalism in the earliest days of NASCAR. Like Bill France Sr., he foresaw that with the proper guidance, rough and tumble stock car racing could become a nationally recognized sport. He put his money where his mouth was, investing in our great past time as an owner. The World War II veteran captured NASCAR's first premier series championship in 1949 and nearly 70 years later has earned the highest honor from the sport he always believed in.   
(Video shown.)  
Accepting on behalf of 2017 NASCAR Hall of Fame inductee Raymond Parks, please welcome his granddaughter, Patricia DePottey.   
KYLE PETTY: It is my honor, and to the Parks family, truly my honor, on this the 20th day of January, 2017, to present the NASCAR Hall of Fame inductee ring and officially induct a gentleman that my grandfather and father always referred to as Mr.Parks, Raymond Parks, into the NASCAR Hall of Fame.   
   
 Q. Patty, does it hit you how important your grandfather was to the formational of this sport?  
PATRICIA DePOTTEY: It does, and I will tell you knowing my grandfather, anybody who knew him, he could speak a whole book in two words. And the first time, to let you know how he was, I asked him how did you get into racing, and in less than 10 minutes, he told me his whole life story. His story was, well, I got some cars, and I just started winning.   
And I went, okay.   
And you could go into his store, and he had that wooden table that you saw in the picture. He had his trophies. And I'm not kidding you, if you went over to look at one of the trophies, he would stand there and he'd say, well, oh, I got that when Red Byron won the championship.   
That was the end of the story.  
But what really hit me, I think, was the first time I went to the Daytona Speedway, I was sitting in the stands, and it hit me, because everything I had heard growing up, I could see all of them in the Streamline Motel. I could see the cars racing around in the sand. I could just envision everything that he accomplished, and it was like all of the stories became real.   
And I think that was just a very momentous time for me.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT