NASCAR SPRINT CUP SERIES: FEDERATED AUTO PARTS 400
September 10, 2016
Kevin Harvick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Your night turned out to be pretty good. You guys wound up finishing fifth and I know it was a crazy night with the tire strategy. How was your car at the end of the race?
KEVIN HARVICK: It was okay. I think as you look at our Jimmy John's Busch team, this was definitely a battle of a weekend. But these are the weekends that you have to be able to figure out as you get through the next 10 weeks, and as bad as we thought everything was to come out of here with a top‑5 finish really shows the character of the team. Really the last month just makes me really excited, the performance of the cars, all top‑5 finishes, and then tonight really having a good night on pit road with all the pit stops and to battle back from my mistake of speeding penalty on pit road, and everybody just kept working at it, and those are the kind of things that you have to do, because what you are getting ready to step into the next 10 weeks is a lot of pressure. You're going to have to adapt to some sort of issues or problems as you get into these next 10 weeks and figure out how to make something out of it. We've been there and we've done that. We've won. We've finished second. We've won races. We've had our backs against the wall. We feel like we know what to expect, and that is to expect the unexpected. 
I like the preparation and the things that we have ready to go, and we'll see where it all shakes out.

Q. I was going to ask you to evaluate the performance on pit road tonight. Their slowest stop was 11.7 tonight which was a huge upgrade for anybody on pit road. How much of a key is that?
KEVIN HARVICK: Makes me want to hug you right now. Every time you came out, you're really, really happy with the way that they stepped up. That's what this is all about. This is the highest level that you can compete at in racing, and to see those guys step up do what they did tonight just shows how good they are, and they know that, and now they don't have to worry about knowing that anymore because they did it. Just really, really happy about that. I know it's been a little bit of a chaotic week, but this is all about a championship and doing what you've got to do.

Q. We were joking about your tweet earlier with the bull going into the stands. Is there a switch that's flipped this week going into Chicago where you say, okay, now it's Chase time?
KEVIN HARVICK: You just have to be selfish. You have to do what's best for your team, worry about the consequences when all the dust settles, and you have to be narrow minded, not listen to anything, and do whatever it takes to figure out how to make the best performance on that particular day because every point matters. This is a minute‑by‑minute battle. The preparation, you do everything you can to prepare the cars to put them in the trailer. When you unload them, you make the first lap in practice and really every week it's repeat this process and try to make sure that everything is as detailed as possible, and then after practice you sit down and you evaluate and you adjust, and you just try to think of dotting every I and crossing every T because that's what it's all about and you have to get everything out of every person that touches everything on that car at another level to win this deal. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT