NASCAR SPRINT CUP SERIES: FEDERATED AUTO PARTS 400
September 12, 2015
Kevin Harvick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: We're joined by Kevin Harvick. Thank you for taking the time to be with us tonight. Talk a little bit about being the reigning champion and securing your spot in the Chase, clinching it early on and being here at Richmond, looking ahead to Chicago next week.   
KEVIN HARVICK: Well, we didn't do anything exciting here. It's been a great 25 weeks leading up to this. I think the team has done a great job of putting fast cars on the racetrack, doing the things we do. We were a lot better than we were last year as a team. I'm looking forward to the next 10 weeks.   
Love the pressure. Love the excitement. Just ready to go.   
THE MODERATOR: We'll open it up for questions for Kevin.   
   
 Q. I know you've been good and Penske has been good, but JGR has kicked into this whole other gear. What is it going to take for other teams to pass them?   
KEVIN HARVICK: Well, you can't be good once every three weeks. You got to be good for 10 weeks. I know those guys have run fast. It's been a different Gibbs car that we've raced against for the last 10 weeks. As a company, they've had some good success in winning races, but it hasn't been the same car.   
Hopefully they'll be peaky like they normally are and we can capitalize on the solid momentum we've had throughout the last two years and do what we have to do.   
   
 Q. You've been leading the points all year for the most part. Now you're maybe six points back of some of the top guys. Does it matter? Do you feel like the guy to beat?  
KEVIN HARVICK: I mean, I feel like we're as good as any team out there. I feel like we can beat any team on any given day if it all goes our way.   
I don't know that we're the team to beat. But I know that we can beat anybody as we go through a week‑to‑week basis on any style racetrack. It's just a matter of having the circumstances and things go your way.   
This deal is, A, about having fast cars and not making mistakes. But there are going to be some things happen as we saw last year, circumstances you have to overcome, situations, people are going to gamble.  
That's what this deal is all about. It's really not about having the fastest cars week in and week out, it's about capitalizing on situations. The guy who makes the least amount of mistakes is going to be the one who keeps advancing.   
It's not about stats or what's pretty or not pretty, it's about three weeks and making it to the next round, three weeks, making it to the next round, trying to get yourself in position for Homestead.   
The one thing I know that we can do, we've been in pressure situations, we've succeeded in both of them at the end of the year and we've been there, done that. I didn't see anybody around us do the same thing.   
It's going to be fun and I know that we've had our backs against the wall and know how to deal with those situations. It's a whole different ballgame now.   
THE MODERATOR: Kevin, thank you very much for your time. We'll see you in Chicago.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT