NASCAR SPRINT CUP SERIES: FEDERATED AUTO PARTS 400
September 12, 2015
Kevin Harvick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. What in the world happened with that race car, Kevin?  
KEVIN HARVICK: We were just way off. We basically were racing on three tires after about lap 16. That left‑front tire kept wearing out for whatever reason. But everybody on our Budweiser Jimmy John's team has done a great job in the preseason. Believe it or not we've had our worst two races in two years at this particular racetrack.  
   
 Q. Which is funny because this is a great track for you.   
KEVIN HARVICK: Historically, it has been, but our worst two races as a group has probably been right here. We'll work on that and could have won the race. We finished one‑two at the first race here in the spring, so both Kurt and I were off tonight, and glad that we don't have to run a Chase race here. I've been waiting for weeks to get to Chicago and get this thing started. I know how much preparation and time everybody at Stewart‑Haas Racing and especially Rodney and all our guys on our No.4 team have put into going to these next three weeks. It's just what it's all about. It's a whole different way of racing. It's a whole different mindset as you go into Chicago, and it's kind of take no prisoners. I don't like you and I know they don't like me, so you race like that on every lap, and we're going to go after it.  
   
 Q. How do you have to change the mentality as a driver because you were able to do this last year and win those races at Homestead and Phoenix to win the championship?  
KEVIN HARVICK: Well, I feel like as a team we have been there, done that. We've been in Phoenix and Homestead pressure situations and succeeded in both of those situations. I think when you look at the group there's not a lot of them that have done that, and you've just got to keep pressure on them, and I think as you go into Chicago, you just know that you're not going to make any friends and you don't have to worry about it. You have to worry about what you have to do to advance to get to the next round every three weeks, and whatever the scorecard looks like or whatever you have to do is what you have to do. It's not about making more friends.   
   
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT