NASCAR SPRINT CUP SERIES: CROWN ROYAL PRESENTS THE JEFF KYLE 400 AT THE BRICKYARD
July 26, 2015
Kevin Harvick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Kevin, you ran up front throughout the race, contending for the win.   Just your thoughts about how you thought your team performed, how you thought the car performed and overall your assessment of today's race by the No.4 Chevrolet.
KEVIN HARVICK:   Yeah, we had a great day.   I think everybody did a great job, just in that, I guess, second‑ or third‑to‑last restart where the 22 and 18 were able to get hooked up and kind of drive by us and I lost control of the race there and didn't really have what I wanted on the restarts once the 18 got control, the speed was too high and I spun the tires on the next one, and just didn't get the restarts all put together like I needed to.   Just didn't all pan out there at the end, but everybody did a great job all day. 

Q.   At Indianapolis Motor Speedway, are restarts here more important than any other track maybe? 
KEVIN HARVICK:   I don't know about that.   I think restarts have become an important part of racing in general over the years, just to get yourself out in clean air and be able to stay out front and do the things that make your car run at the best speed that it can because it's obviously much faster out front than it is in traffic. 

Q.   How did the changes to the cars affect the racing today? 
KEVIN HARVICK:   I think everybody put in a lot of effort to really try to make everything a lot better, spent a lot of money, but I don't know that we accomplished everything that we were looking to accomplish.   Cars are extremely hot inside.   That was probably the biggest surprise that crept up on everybody.   I know everybody spent a lot of money to get the cars here and put a lot of time and effort into putting the puzzle together.   I know my team did a lot of extra work to come to this race after we had already come here and tested and already spent that money to come here and test for a few days, and then to come back and have to race something different was a huge undertaking for the teams for a huge science project that probably didn't really change that much.   But everybody tried real hard, and in the end, I think our‑‑ our goal is more drafting and more pack racing, so we'll see if we can get to that. 
THE MODERATOR:   Kevin, thanks for coming in.   Good luck next week at Pocono. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT