NASCAR SPRINT CUP SERIES: DUCK COMMANDER 500
April 11, 2015
Kevin Harvick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  LOUIS MORA:   We're now joined by tonight's second place finisher of the Duck Commander 500, Kevin Harvick, driver of the No.4 Budweiser / Jimmy John's Chevrolet.   This is his ninth top‑two finish in the last ten races dating back to last November's race at Texas Motor Speedway, the AAA Texas 500 and he tied a career‑best finish here with the second place finish at Texas.   Can you talk about your evening? 
KEVIN HARVICK:   Yeah, just really proud of my team for the battle that we had this weekend with the car, through practice and even at the beginning, really all night, just trying to battle the balance of the car and that's pretty typical as you come to Texas.   In position to win.   Everybody is doing a great job, and just kind of got hung up behind the 22 and the 1 car there.   Just lost a little bit of time and tried to make too much of it up in too many chunks and about spun out and got in the fence trying to make up ground.   All in all, it was a lot of fun.   Fun to race that way. 

Q.   You kind of expect guys to be blocking with 20 or 25 laps to go, right?   That's pretty much the way it's going to be isn't it? 
KEVIN HARVICK:   Yeah, it's fine.   Like the 22, you knock them out of the way, and that's the chance you take when you block. 

Q.   Any idea what makes Jimmie so strong like here and Atlanta but he wasn't necessarily all that strong at Vegas and California? 
KEVIN HARVICK:   That will be a great question when he comes in here. 

Q.   Does his car look differently here and in Atlanta compared to maybe at California? 
KEVIN HARVICK:   Maybe they drilled more holes in their tires than we did.   I don't know.   (Laughter.)
I really don't know.   They just have a really good setup for here for sure, and I think as you look at the history, this is just a racetrack that fits everything that they do, so they just know‑‑ he knows the feel that he wants in the car, and that changes as to what's underneath the car, and they just do a really good job and make it happen when it's time to get to the race. 
I think when you look at those two racetracks, he's got a pretty good track record, as you look back at them.   There's just those racetracks that you have those types of feels for, and obviously for him those are just a couple of them.   He's won quite a few of them. 

Q.   You didn't win but you keep alive this streak of incredibly long streak of high finishes.   You can't be too disappointed with tonight?
KEVIN HARVICK:   I'm not disappointed at all.   Racing for wins is what we're here to do, and just really proud of everybody, and when you can get out there and race like that and come home with stripes down the side of it, everybody is out there hopefully enjoying the show with everybody racing as hard as they did tonight.   That's just what we come to do is to try to be competitive every week, and we hadn't put it together at this particular racetrack, but with this team and this group of guys, we've led a bunch of laps the last three times that we've raced here and finished second twice.   Maybe we'll just save the first‑place finish for the Chase race.   Hopefully that'll come sooner rather than later, but they're doing a great job.   There's nothing at all to hang your head about.   There's no way you're going to win them all, that's for sure. 

Q.   Do you feel a different spirit here at Texas than anywhere else that you race?   We feel it.   I wonder if you and your team feel it here at Texas. 
KEVIN HARVICK:   I'm not much into spirits, but Texas is a place where you just‑‑ you can feel the fact that, I guess the old saying of everything is bigger in Texas and obviously you have Eddie promoting everything in sight to try to make the show good.   So yeah, it's definitely exciting to come with the effort that they put into everything. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT