NBA DRAFT
June 23, 2011
Tobias Harris
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 TOBIAS HARRIS (No. 19)
  Charlotte Bobcats
  (Draft rights traded to Milwaukee Bucks) 
   
  Q. Your thoughts about being drafted by the Bucks and also being a local guy?  
 TOBIAS HARRIS: I think it's a great honor to be drafted by the Milwaukee Bucks. I think it's a great honor to be drafted by the Milwaukee Bucks.  
 I just feel like it's a great fit for me as a player, coming in and bringing a winning attitude and just a great work ethic to the table. I believe that we have a great organization, and we are on the rise to doing big things in the conference, and being a hometown kid from New York, getting to go to this draft, and being in front of all my family and friends and fans, and get drafted is just a great opportunity and is just a blessing from God.  
  
  Q. What are some of the adjustments you're going to have to make from college ball?  
 TOBIAS HARRIS: Definitely tempo is a lot faster, so I'll just continue to grow as a player and person, and continue to work hard. Defense is going to be a lot harder, so I'm just going to have to really push myself to the limit.  
  
  Q. Just explain a little bit about the anticipation while you were waiting for where you finally were going to end up?  
 TOBIAS HARRIS: There was a lot of anticipation. I didn't really know where I was going to go. Sitting there, you're just really anxious, but I knew God has a plan for me, whichever situation I was going to go to. I just sit there and let that rest in His hands.  
  
  Q. Talk about how college ball prepared you for the NBA.  
 TOBIAS HARRIS: Prepared me a lot. Our team faced a lot of adversity this year, just taught me to continue to grow as a player and person, and just continue to work hard and be the best at what I do. So it taught me a lot and I learned a lot from our coaches and our team.  
  
  Q. There is a good depth of threes in Milwaukee, so how are you looking to be able to get some big time minutes early, and how will you separate yourself?  
 TOBIAS HARRIS: Just come in there and work as hard as I can and just learn a lot and continue to grow as basketball player, and you know, just really work my tail off.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT