BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 17, 2011
Slugger White
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   SLUGGER WHITE: No infraction. It comes under the rule of 13.4, and it goes to the exception. It's like he touched the sand when replacing his ball, and that's where it comes from. 13.4(b) tells you that he cannot touch the ground with his hand or the club, and then it goes back and says except in replacing the ball -- I've got to read the whole thing if you want me to. It's pretty simple, really.   
  
  Q. That's always good news.   
 SLUGGER WHITE: I shouldn't say simple. Believe me, we toyed with this for about the last 45 minutes. It goes in, "In measuring, lifting the position of, retrieving, lifting and placing or replacing the ball," that's where the exception comes under 13.4. That's pretty much it. There's no infraction.   
  
  Q. What did he do?   
 SLUGGER WHITE: It was an interference thing where he marked his ball for another player. I didn't have the rule so I didn't know. It was an interference thing --  
  
  Q. There were two balls close to each other.   
 SLUGGER WHITE: It was just interference where he lifted the ball and then in replacing it he touched the sand with his club. He can't -- again, I'm trying to get this thing straight for you guys -- provided nothing constitutes testing the condition of the hazard, and he did not do that, so we were very comfortable with that.  
  
  Q. Is it the same rule as when you lose your balance in a hazard?  
 SLUGGER WHITE: Well, and that was part of it, too, exactly. To prevent yourself from falling you can use it like a cane.  
  
  Q. But you said it took you guys a while to decide which way to go. It seems like you were using intent --  
 SLUGGER WHITE: Not intent. I think the biggest thing was we just wanted to make sure we were doing it right, that he didn't do anything to test the condition, and what he did in replacing his ball was what happened.  
  
  Q. If I was in the bunker by myself, no interference involved, and I leaned on my club --  
 SLUGGER WHITE: You've got a problem.  
  
  Q. Even though it's not intentional?  
 SLUGGER WHITE: That doesn't make any difference. That's clearly covered in the book, yeah.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT