THE BARCLAYS
August 25, 2011
Slugger White
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   LAURA HILL: Like to welcome Slugger White into the interview room, and he told us he can't really tell us anything but I thought it would be better coming from him than me. So we'll let Slugger, if you can just kind of give us an update from what you can and we'll take some questions from these guys. 
 SLUGGER WHITE: I'm begging for the last group today to make the turn, which will be huge for us right now. And given the weather forecast we have, unless we get really knocked out, I think we can probably do that, maybe only have seven holes left on each side in that neighborhood. We would start again tomorrow morning. 
 I mean, I've got to look at it and see exactly when we would start. But have a little delay in the starting for the second round in the morning, and try to get back on track and get the afternoon finished tomorrow and make a cut and then we'll decide tomorrow afternoon sometime what we are going to do with this Saturday's round. 

 Q. What are you looking at Saturday, maybe trying to get it finished on Saturday or what are you kicking around? 
 SLUGGER WHITE: What do you mean, finished? 

 Q. Go 36?
 SLUGGER WHITE: No, we are not going to do that. No, we'll make a little determination on what we are going to do tomorrow afternoon. I'm not going to -- really don't want to paint myself in a corner right now with, you know, there's a lot of scenarios out there. So I'm just going to -- we'll know something tomorrow morning, tomorrow afternoon. 

 Q. Why would you not consider 36 Saturday if the forecast looks like --
 SLUGGER WHITE: For one thing, we don't have enough daylight, is one thing. We can't get it in. Plus, we have got not a very good forecast Saturday afternoon. 

 Q. This is obviously not a normal potential rain event, a serious-type situation potentially. How much are you in communication with state officials and the like, given this scenario? 
 SLUGGER WHITE: State officials? On what's going on? None whatsoever. I mean, I heard what the governor -- I guess the governor has announced a state of emergency for Sunday, which I think is, you know, that's probably going to happen. 
 I said they haven't had an earthquake here in a hundred years and they haven't had a hurricane here in 90 years, and they are having both in the same week, so that's pretty special. Welcome to New Jersey. Is that right? (Laughter).

 Q. Is there a time tomorrow when you have to make a decision on whether it's going to be Monday or Tuesday if Sunday is out?
 SLUGGER WHITE: I don't think there's a drop-dead. I think that we would like to probably announce it before the first group finishes, before we finish 36 holes. It just helps everyone to know exactly what we are doing, volunteers, all of the above. So I think by noon tomorrow we'll know pretty much what Saturday and especially what Sunday is going to bring us. 

 Q. Are you worried also about Monday and the ability to put the golf course back together after Sunday?
 SLUGGER WHITE: Yes, sir. Yeah, this golf course took about, I think like 13 inches of rain last week, and I tell you what, Travis and his crew have done such a great job of putting it back together. I just can't even imagine what another -- if we are looking at five to seven inches of rain what that's going to do. I just can't -- I can't pat them on the back enough. They have done a great job. 

 Q. Do you have a plan, if the forecast is spot-on to do something about grandstands and things like that?
 SLUGGER WHITE: Yes, indeed, we sure are. I think we are going to start pulling the mesh off of a lot of the towers, probably the TV towers and around, so the wind will get through them. I think we will probably look at taking score boards down so we don't want those projectiles out there. We don't need one of them landing in somebody's yard that borders the golf course on their front porch.
 There's a lot, especially the safety factor. Years and years ago at The Honda Classic at Weston Hills, we had stuff that was just blowing around and it was very, very dangerous. We are not going to take that chance, I can guarantee you. 

 Q. On Saturday you'll start removing screens?
 SLUGGER WHITE: Yes, indeed.

 Q. Is there a scenario where we will only see 54 holes played or will we definitely see 72?
 SLUGGER WHITE: There's a scenario out there. It could be there, not right now but it could be there. 

 Q. With the Deutsche Bank starting on Friday instead of Thursday, does that give you anymore leeway? 
 SLUGGER WHITE: It does but when the regulation kicks in -- the only time we would ever go to Tuesday, just to give you a little background, the only time we would ever go to Tuesday is if we got half the field finished on Monday. Now, in order to go to Tuesday, if we didn't get to that, then the Commissioner would have to step in and override the regulation. He's the only one that could do that unilaterally. So I've got him on fast dial right now. 

 Q. Is that Tuesday regulation, is that for a regular --
 SLUGGER WHITE: Correct. If we went to Monday. Let's just say we had -- like we got knocked out today or tomorrow, whatever, and we scheduled a Monday finish, the only way we would go to Tuesday is if we got half the field finished but we wouldn't start the round if, in fact, just to try to complete -- get half the field finished. We wouldn't do that -- fourth round we are talking about. 

 Q. Tuesday would not be considered --
 SLUGGER WHITE: It is, in days, to think like that, it is. But again, you know, that's when the Commissioner has to step in here. I think we are not going to treat that, just because it's starting on Friday, we have to think a little bit -- it's like we have got other things involved with that. 

 Q. Harrison Frazar said 16 holes were pretty good but he pointed out 13 and 14 as being potential real problems. Is that true? Those are two holes that might put a kibosh on things? 
 SLUGGER WHITE: Well let's see 12, 13, 14, 15 and part of 16 -- it could very well. I mean, it will just depend on how much rain. If we get five or seven inches of rain here, you know, we are probably dead in the water. 
 LAURA HILL: Slugger thanks for your time.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT