HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2011
Slugger White
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: We're here with Slugger White. Comments on the golf course?   
 SLUGGER WHITE: I don't know if I've seen anything like it. The hail was -- the hail we had here. I was here last night, it was about behalf the size of baseballs, and it beat everything up pretty well and my admiration goes out for John Cunningham and his crew, they did a great job getting this place playable this morning with just an hour delay.   
 They've been going at it since 5:00 this morning and just did a great job.  
  
  Q. Who you were the greens? They looked good before the hail --  
 SLUGGER WHITE: They were great.   
  
  Q. How will it affect it during the tournament?   
 SLUGGER WHITE: We don't know, we will see more tonight. They had guys on there this morning, 10 or 12 guys going from front to back trying to fix what looked like ball marks. And then they rolled 'em after that and we'll see what it looks like tonight.   
  
  Q. What are things you can do, if there is damage and you're trying to fix it and make it good, what can you do?   
 SLUGGER WHITE: It's a thing where they may have to water 'em down again to make 'em a little more receptive to the roler to smooth 'em out a little bit. A lot will depend on this evening.   
 We will have to look at it tonight behind the last group today. I will probably have to hold my comments because I don't know exactly. I've never seen it like this.   
  
  Q. Especially on 18 you have deep --  
 SLUGGER WHITE: Yeah, it is and like I say, John and his crew did such a great job just getting it ready. The Salesmanship Club, too.   
  
  Q. Any other damage? Trees, anything like that?   
 SLUGGER WHITE: No, there is a lot of debris, leaves, branches, but I looked around this morning and I didn't see any trees down. A lot of casual water out there as you well expect. But that's pretty much it as far as the -- a lot of degree and they're going to try to, during play, clean up the outside of the roughs after they get the inside of the roughs -- bunkers were completely washed out. I mean, they did everything. They had to redo every one of 'em. The worst I saw was 16, and it was amazing what they did with 16 and 17 so give the guys -- taking the mud off the top and putting the sand back down. It was quite a job.  
  
  Q. What about the rain total?   
 SLUGGER WHITE: Our weatherman said he measured 1.4, we thought it was more than that and it could have been. I watched it rain last night and I thought 2 inches would not be out of the realm, that's just a guess on my part.  
  
  Q. How about the wind? Did they measure that?   
 SLUGGER WHITE: I don't know.   
  
  Q. You're saying you've never seen anything like this before, is this something you have to learn on the fly?   
 SLUGGER WHITE: I think we did. Tom Brown, who is our agronomist, he was raiseded in West Texas and he feels confident we will be okay. I put all my eggs in his basket, he's that good.   
  
  Q. Did he work with the Nelson folks on the greens?   
 SLUGGER WHITE: Oh, yeah, he's been out here since early this morning. Tom's one of our best. I looked up to him and take a lot from what he says.   
  
  Q. Do you expect regular start-up time?   
 SLUGGER WHITE: Yeah, the weather is perfect right now. It would be nice if we got some wind, you know, to dry the place up a little bit. Hopefully that happens, but we'll go from there.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thanks, Slugger.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT