WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 4, 2011
Slugger White
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MARK STEVENS: We'd like to welcome Slugger White. If you just want to kind of take us through where we're at and where do you think we're headed and then we'll take a couple questions.   
 SLUGGER WHITE: Okay, where we're at. Well, we did get a couple groups finished tonight, but we're going to resume tomorrow morning at 9:30, and the morning wave on Thursday will start their round at 10:00 o'clock, so it'll be 10:00 to 11:30. We've got an hour and a half of tee times. We're going to play till dark. We'll probably make the cut sometime tomorrow afternoon, I can't tell you when, and if it makes sense to start the third round, we'll try to do that. We really don't want to burn as much daylight because it's right up against dark every night.   
 And then in a perfect world, probably finish Monday maybe four or five holes, best-case scenario. That's pretty much it. Like I said, so much depends on tomorrow morning and Sunday morning as far as our frozen -- it's unbelievable how frozen these greens get, and they just don't thaw out.   
 It's going to be a little warmer tomorrow morning. They think it's going to be like 45 downtown, which makes it usually about 41 or 40 here, which will help a lot, and maybe just have the frost that goes away pretty quick when the sun gets on it. I mean, this is all conjecture. We're just doing the best we can.  
 MARK STEVENS: Now, is the cut definitely 70 --  
 SLUGGER WHITE: 70 and ties, yes.  
  
  Q. Was there discussion of having like a 60-player cut or something like that?   
 SLUGGER WHITE: Well, we pencil whipped it to death. We just didn't have enough daylight. I mean, starting at 7:30 would be what we'd have to do, and that would be really pushing it. We needed about 10 and a half hours, and we just didn't -- 7:30, that means that the range would have to be open at 6:30, and these greens are just -- the weather is just not cooperating.  
  
  Q. And you intend on playing till dark on Sunday, as well?  
 SLUGGER WHITE: Correct, yeah.  
  
  Q. Why is that?   
 SLUGGER WHITE: Why is that?   
  
  Q. Why don't you conclude the third round and then just play the entire fourth round on Monday?  
 SLUGGER WHITE: Well, I think everybody would kind of like to get out of here, and I think that's what we're trying to do. Guys are trying to get to Pebble. They're going to get everywhere. I wouldn't want to burn two hours of daylight or whatever. We'll go ahead and play up until dark.  
  
  Q. How much thought was given to cutting it to 54 holes?  
 SLUGGER WHITE: None. Well, I shouldn't say that.  
  
  Q. It came up?  
 SLUGGER WHITE: It was thrown out there, how about that, okay? I kind of threw that out there this morning. It's just against our regulations to not -- if we would have had a bad forecast on Monday, now we're talking a bit different -- we've got a good forecast on Monday. Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, I think.   
  
  Q. Obviously this is part of the deal, you have to deal with this kind of thing. Has this been sort of as crazy as you've had to deal with in a while?  
 SLUGGER WHITE: You know, it's been kind of crazy this year. We've had two out of five pro-ams that we didn't play. We didn't play in Hawai'i and we didn't play here this week. Someone made the comment, when can you ever remember, and I can't, did we ever have a Monday finish with no precipitation, which is unbelievable. I mean, for us to get knocked out for frozen greens just doesn't happen. Frost, yeah, frost goes away in an hour, hour and a half, and then we can just keep going, we can catch up. But unfortunately these greens were just -- it's been in the 20s, 25 every morning in my car.  
 MARK STEVENS: The 2008 Verizon was Monday finish because of high winds.   
 SLUGGER WHITE: Yeah, we did, exactly. That's right.  
  
  Q. Was there any discussion about going up against the Super Bowl on Sunday afternoon?   
 SLUGGER WHITE: Is there a Super Bowl? (Laughter.)  
 Absolutely none, not even considered.  
  
  Q. Not from Ponte Vedra or from TV?  
 SLUGGER WHITE: No, sir. We don't consider that. We don't consider a major the next week. It's just in the regulation. This is what we're dealing with right now, here in Phoenix, for the Waste Management people. That's what we're doing.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT