WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 2, 2011
Slugger White
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DOUG MILNE: Slugger, we don't want you here any more than you want to be here, but obviously a tough decision but one that had to be made nonetheless. If you could bring us up to speed on the decision process and the state of the course and the weather. 
 SLUGGER WHITE: Well, mainly obviously it's frozen out there. We looked at it early this morning, tried to wait as long as we could to try and get 18 holes in. We knew if it got to 11:00 that it was going to be nine holes, and it just didn't get any better. Jeff Plotts and his crew have been out there. The greens are still frozen. The approaches are frozen. And it just would do a tremendous amount of damage if we walked on it, just tracking everything up with the greens being frozen.
 DOUG MILNE: What are we looking at moving forward? 
 SLUGGER WHITE: Well, that question was just answered about ten times upstairs, but basically my first response is yes, it's a forecast. I mean, who knows. Anything could happen with the weather. But it doesn't look good tomorrow morning. It's supposed to be colder. And it might be even colder on Friday. So we'll just see. I don't ever remember -- we've stopped here before for a frozen green on the 1st hole. But just for this weather, I've talked to people that grew up here and they've never seen it like this.
 DOUG MILNE: That being said, and this may be a stupid question, but will there be a decision made based on that weather to go ahead and move tee times back? 
 SLUGGER WHITE: No, I think we need to be here. You'd hate to make an announcement and shoot yourself in the foot, and I don't want us to do that. 

 Q. Can you recall this happening at other courses? 
 SLUGGER WHITE: I can't.

 Q. Not anywhere?
 SLUGGER WHITE: No. Obviously we've had frost delays before, but usually that's an hour or so when the sun gets up and the frost goes really quick, but these things, we didn't really have any frost, but we've got 20- to 30-mile-an-hour winds out there with a wind chill factor of about 30 right now, and it was supposed to get up to like 39 we're looking at, and it may get a little warmer. It may thaw out later on. Hopefully it does and we can get some work done on the golf course. 
 But I don't ever remember stopping a full day for frozen greens.

 Q. Do you anticipate that if the conditions are like this tomorrow that -- never mind a delay, obviously there could be a delay, but is it possible that you couldn't play at all? 
 SLUGGER WHITE: I think there's a possibility. I mean, I don't want to step out there too far, but obviously we'd try to play whenever we could. But 24 hours from now we might --

 Q. If it's like this tomorrow, would you play? 
 SLUGGER WHITE: I can't answer that. I'd say maybe, a definite maybe. 

 Q. You said if it warmed up they'd be able to get out and do some work on the golf course. What kind of work would that be? 
 SLUGGER WHITE: Well, he'd like to get some of the greens mowed because we are getting some growth out there. But until it all thaws out, he's not going to put a mower or anything out there at all. It may not happen today.

 Q. How often would they normally be mowing the greens?
 SLUGGER WHITE: Well, our schedule would be -- we would roll and cut in the evening and then double cut in the morning. We didn't do anything last night, or they didn't do anything last night, and weren't able to do anything this morning just because of the wind factor, and we didn't want these greens getting so fast you couldn't stand up on them. 
 DOUG MILNE: Slugger, we do appreciate your time. I know you've got a lot of work ahead of you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT