VALERO TEXAS OPEN
May 14, 2010
Slugger White
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DOUG MILNE: All right. Slugger, thanks for stopping by. We know you've got a lot going on. Just a few comments. You know the drill when we have situations like this. A few comments what we're looking at and the course and so forth.  
 SLUGGER WHITE: My pleasure, Doug. Thanks.  
 We had all good intentions to try to start playing today at 4:00. We had an awful situation this morning. We've had a little over 3 inches of rain and we, throughout, we were going to be pretty good. When the guys went out to assess what we're looking at about 2:30, the golf course drained extremely well.   
 We had some bunker damage and the crew, they were getting ready to go out and do their due diligence to do everything else and all of a sudden we're all there for ten minutes and Wade Stettner, our meteorologist called and said we've got two more cells pop up with lighting in it and then you've seen what the last probably 30 minutes have brought.  
 Sad. We tried. We did everything we possibly could.  
 DOUG MILNE: Okay. If you guys have a few questions.  
  
  Q. Slugger, I know this course is a new course and sometimes new courses, they're built for this kind thing now. This one in particular though, a lot has been made about the aquifer and the protection and the clay cap. Did that aid in the drainage? Was this course different than any others?  
 SLUGGER WHITE: I'm sure it did. The guys went out there and said it was unbelievable how dry it was. I think that's exactly what it was, with the -- all drainage that went into it all the time and work and it was unbelievably drive with three inches of rain.  
  
  Q. Is Monday in the mix now?  
 SLUGGER WHITE: Monday is in the mix. We're going to make an assessment tomorrow during play. I mean we've got a couple scenarios. We can play 36 on Sunday, we can play Monday.   
 I mean a lot is going to depend on what we do tomorrow weather-wise, how much play we get, we get finished. So probably I would think early to mid-afternoon we'll know a little more about what's going on on Sunday.  
  
  Q. The weather is more of a concern for Sunday than Saturday?  
 SLUGGER WHITE: We were 20 percent chance yesterday, 50 today and we're 30 and 30 on Saturday and Sunday percentage of what we're dealing with today.  
  
  Q. Slugger, looking at the bunkers, obviously there was some washout going on there. They're new bunkers. How long does take it to get those back into shape for play?  
 SLUGGER WHITE: Tom and his crew felt like they could get finished in three hours. We kind of looked at it to be maybe a half hour per hole and they were going to try to stay ahead of us if we could go at 4:00, which we felt like give them plenty of time because we didn't want the lead groups playing up their back.  
 So he felt very confident that we could -- they could finish in three hours and he had like -- got a big crew which really helps a lot.  
  
  Q. Is that a matter of resorting the sand or do you have to put new sand in?  
 SLUGGER WHITE: No. Many of the liners keep a lot of sand in place on the lips but, no, they would just take the sand that's there and redistribute it, pack it down a little bit and then rake it clean.  
  
  Q. Slugger, is there a chance that you could try to make a cut and start the third round tomorrow or the third round definitely go Sunday?  
 SLUGGER WHITE: Third round will start sometime Sunday, hopefully. We were right up to -- I think we finished about 20 minutes to 8 last night and I mean sunset is like 8:18. We wouldn't have any chance at all.  
  
  Q. So would you like to try that, I mean weather, of course, always permitting, but would you like to play 36 Sunday and get finished or --  
SLUGGER WHITE: I mean that's in our regulations. That's what we're trying to do is finish the tournament by Sunday evening, 72 holes. So that's what we're trying to do.  
  
  Q. Does it impact anything at all the fact that next tournament is four hours up the road?  
 SLUGGER WHITE: Absolutely not. If it's a Major next week that has no bearing, either. No, it's --  
Q.It is a Major next week, Texas Major.  
 SLUGGER WHITE: No question about it.   
 DOUG MILNE: Has the decision been made on playing the ball tomorrow, are we definitely up?  
 SLUGGER WHITE: Probably. I'm not going to go out on a limb and say yes, but I would say probably because we're not going to be able to cut the fairways. They're -- we're not going to ask Tom and his crew to cut fairways and I think probably will just maybe just for the second round, hopefully. It will only be for that. They're growing pretty good.  
  
  Q. When you have three inches of rain on the course, you're able to wait a day and play tomorrow morning, does it change anything as far as the set-up at all?  
 SLUGGER WHITE: I don't think anything. We knew coming in here -- we didn't know the golf course very well and I think the guys, you know, the guys setting up did, in my opinion, a great job.   
 They were highly complimented by the players, too. It's going to take us a couple years to learn the golf course, learn what we can do and go from there.  
  
  Q. The softer green conditions --  
SLUGGER WHITE: I don't think they're going to get much softer. I think the drainage and the newness of them and I don't think -- they're still going to be pretty firm.   
 DOUG MILNE: Same times for tomorrow, 7:10?  
 SLUGGER WHITE: Yes. Saturday -- Friday's round on Saturday.  
 DOUG MILNE: All right. Slugger, we know you've got a lot to do. Thanks for stopping by. We appreciate it.   
 SLUGGER WHITE: Thanks, Doug, thanks, guys.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT