BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 4, 2008
Slugger White
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Slugger White, thank you for joining us on a rain-soaked Thursday at the BMW Championship. Maybe give us the assessment and what we're looking forward to the rest of the week.   
 SLUGGER WHITE: Well, we're not going to play today. We've got a golf course that unfortunately is just under water. It's been inundated. Obviously you've seen that. We've got 16 miles of drainage out there that's having trouble putting it anywhere, so we just made our assessment here about 15, 20 minutes ago, and it may be as bad as I've seen in a long, long time. It's a shame, but we're not going to play obviously today.   
  Thursday's round tee times will be starting tomorrow. We're going to play 36 holes on Saturday. It's a little bit different. Fortunately we've got a 69-man field, which helps us a lot. We're going to re-pair after tomorrow's round according to scores. The leaders will tee off on 1 on Saturday morning, finish on 18, in the neighborhood of probably around 2:00, in that neighborhood, and we will not re-pair for the third round. We're just going to go in the same groups, try to get finished on Saturday. And in a perfect world hopefully we will be playing pairs on Sunday on one tee and have another wonderful champion here at the FedExCup.    
  Q. I assume you've done it this way so you can have a few hours tomorrow to get the course playable?  
  SLUGGER WHITE: As far as?    
  Q. 36 Saturday.   
 SLUGGER WHITE: Yes. We've got a mess out there. I mean, it's unfortunate for Chuck Gast and his crew, who have done a wonderful job putting this thing together, and this will give us an extra 24 hours of drying time, and I think it'll be -- I think it's the best thing to do.  
  
  Q. Are you confident you'll be able to play tomorrow?  
 SLUGGER WHITE: Yes. We've got a beautiful day tomorrow. This is supposed to be out of here between 1:30 and 2:00 today, the back edge of it, and we're supposed to have Stewart Williams from meteorology told us it's supposed to be a beautiful day tomorrow. We've got an outside shot Sunday, maybe late in the day, probably after dark. So we are looking pretty good as the weekend goes after this gets out of here.   
  
  Q. What's the situation with parking, and what about today's grounds passes? Will they be good tomorrow or later in the week, or what do you do about that?  
 SLUGGER WHITE: That's something you're going to have to take up with John Kaczkowski. Fortunately I don't have anything to do with that. We've got our hands full out here on the golf course right now. But I'm sure that they'll do the right thing, they always have, and they will again.   
  
  Q. You said this is the worst you've seen in a long, long time. Do you have any comparative on it that you can think of offhand?  
 SLUGGER WHITE: Well, I think the worst was Butler National back in the early '80s. I can't remember exactly what it was, but that's as bad as I've ever seen. We had fish swimming on the greens there. I think this would rival some rains we've had at Castle Pines during The International when we had hailstorms and dangerous situations. But you can still hear it, it's pretty nasty out there.   
  
  Q. I think that was '87, Slugger. How much rain has the course taken so far and how much more are we supposed to get?  
 SLUGGER WHITE: When I left our trailer we were at just under three inches of rain, and we're looking at upwards to four inches. I mean, it would be nice if this would get out of here in the next hour or so, let these creeks die down a little bit. But I think four inches is probably a pretty good barometer right now.   
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Slugger White, thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT