WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 22, 2008
Slugger White
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   LAURA NEAL:  Slugger, thanks very much for coming in.  Maybe just start by kind of updating what we're looking at tomorrow with the times and the pairings and that sort of thing. 
 SLUGGER WHITE:  Okay.  We're going to resume tomorrow at 8:30 hopefully, and we probably have about two hours of time left, 2:10 maybe, and we'll re-pair hopefully and start again, the fourth round, approximately 11:35, in that neighborhood. 

 Q.  Any guess as to how much rain the course took? 
 SLUGGER WHITE:  The last I saw was two inches, and that was prior to this big downpour that we had, so I would say we probably had at least two, three inches out there and maybe more, and we're looking at more towards the rest of the evening. 

 Q.  So far is the course holding up pretty well? 
 SLUGGER WHITE:  It's not bad.  We went out there probably about 30 minutes ago, 45 minutes ago.  The bunkers need some work.  The drainage is doing pretty well on the fairways.  And the greens, there were two or three greens that were underwater, but nothing that I don't think we could -- I mean, if it stopped we could go squeegee and get rid of it.  I think we could have done that. 

 Q.  How optimistic are you about tomorrow's forecast, being able to play, and secondly, would you have to change any tees and pin positions tomorrow? 
 SLUGGER WHITE:  I don't think we'll need to move any hole placements.  I don't know that for a fact.  No, we would not move anything, because like I said, we're already into it. 

 Q.  I mean for Sunday. 
 SLUGGER WHITE:  For Sunday?  We would go with -- if it's gloom and doom we'd go high and dry, so yes, we would move it to our advantage anyway. 

 Q.  Do you think lift, clean and place would probably be a pretty good possibility? 
 SLUGGER WHITE:  It's in the back of our mind.  I think we're going to have to see what happens tomorrow morning. 

 Q.  And what's the weather forecast the rest of the day? 
 SLUGGER WHITE:  Right now this is supposed to last until maybe 2:00 this morning, and we've got anywhere from 30 to 40 to 50 percent chance through 9:30 or 10:00 tomorrow morning, getting better as the day goes on.  2:00 it may drop to about 30 percent, 5:00 may drop down to 20 percent chance.  It's going to be scattered and we're going to be chasing it. 

 Q.  So the last group is on 12 tee.  Of any of the problem spots, any of the greens with water, are any of those greens from 12 on? 
 SLUGGER WHITE:  We went out, we looked at 18, 17, 7, 12 and 13, and they were pretty bad at that point in time.  That was probably about 4:15.  Hopefully, it looks like the drainage will take over, but they're pretty much at field capacity right now, so they can't take a lot. 

 Q.  With this being a World Golf Championship, is this a must, to get in 72 holes, regardless of if we go to Monday or anything beyond? 
 SLUGGER WHITE:  Sure is, yes, sir. 

 Q.  To clarify, two or three inches since the rain really started since 1:00? 
 SLUGGER WHITE:  No, up until about let's say 4:00, 3:30, we had a little more -- I think it was a little more than two inches of rain, and then we had that real downpour, I think it was about 4:30, and I've got to think it had to dump another inch or so.  I'm guessing three inches plus.  They've got like five or six different gauges, so they don't know.  One says two-tenths, the other one says four inches.  They're all over the place. 

 Q.  Was there a window that you guys were hoping might have existed later today? 
 SLUGGER WHITE:  Yes.  When we suspended play, I think it was 1:15, we were looking at the back end lasting another 30 minutes, 20 to 30 minutes, then we had a window of about 45 minutes, which really doesn't help at all, and then it started closing in on us, too.  But that window that we had wouldn't have helped us at all.  So it was just pretty nasty coming at us from the south and west. 

 Q.  Could I ask you for a little clarification on the Ian Poulter situation?  Are you aware of that? 
 SLUGGER WHITE:  A little bit. 

 Q.  If a player asks for a ruling and he doesn't get what he wants to hear from the first guy, is it a courtesy to let him hear it from another guy in an event like this? 
 SLUGGER WHITE:  He can. 

 Q.  Can the first guy say, "I'm not calling anybody else, just play"? 
 SLUGGER WHITE:  No, if he wants a second opinion, we give him a second opinion.  
But he was told up front that he couldn't use it, and then we kind of put it on the radio.  We all agreed that he couldn't use it. 
 And then there was a decision on it, too.  It was almost like he wrote the decision.  Player walks off the green, tapping his putter on the ground, and I think the decision said it broke.  But it's not in the normal course of play so he couldn't use it anymore. 

 Q.  With more equipment having this weight adjustable situation, almost every piece of equipment it's possible now, is this a little risk that the players might run into, that if a weight-adjustable piece of equipment, the weight falls off or something like that, they run the risk of -- they can't just take another one out of the bag and throw it in, right? 
 SLUGGER WHITE:  No, it changes the playing characteristics, and it's not in the normal course of play, so they can't use it the rest of the round. 

 Q.  If you had a comparable putter with the same weight stuff in there, could he have brought that out of his locker? 
 SLUGGER WHITE:  No.  Now, if he had started with 13 he could have. 

 Q.  That's during the course of play if he cracks a driver? 
 SLUGGER WHITE:  If he breaks it during the normal course of play, then he can replace it with any club. 

 Q.  So if he hits a tree -- 
 SLUGGER WHITE:  Then he can't. 
 LAURA NEAL:  Thanks a lot for your time. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT