THE INTERNATIONAL
August 4, 2005
Slugger White
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Slugger, for joining us for a few minutes.  I know it's been a long day for you.  You probably want to get moving on cleaning up everything before you go home.  Why don't you just begin and talk about the day a little bit and inform us on what kind of went on.
SLUGGER WHITE:  Well, mainly, Joan, we got here, I was here about I guess 5:45 this morning.  It was raining when we were in the car getting here.  It hasn't stopped since.  We looked at the golf course early this morning.  It was very iffy at that point in time and it was starting to rain a little bit more.  The unfortunate part is the more we looked, we just never got a break.  Marshall's crew has done a wonderful job just to try to get ahead of the curve, looking for maybe an hour break so they could get out there, and it just hasn't happened.  It's very unfortunate.

I've been coming here a long time, 20 years, two weeks every year, and I've never driven to work in the morning in the rain ever.  Quite unusual.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Questions, please.
Q.  Was there ever a time today where you thought that break might come?
SLUGGER WHITE:  There was.  I mean, we went from an hour delay to two hours to four hours to I think it ended up being eight hours.  We were almost into double figures, which I don't ever remember happening.

Thursday is so important to get in.  Just trying to get some golf played is paramount.  I mean, we just got to a point where we just couldn't go.  We thought we were going to get a break, I think it was like about 1:00, then there was a big blob of green coming at us again, unfortunately, and we didn't get that break.
Q.  Can you talk about where you go from here now?
SLUGGER WHITE:  A lot is going to depend on what happens tomorrow.  We've got basically everything in the mix right now.  We've got the thought of a Monday finish.  We've got a thought of maybe 36 holes on Sunday.  Most of it's going to depend on how much we get done tomorrow.  If we get done tomorrow, we can make a pretty fair assessment of what we can do.  We've got a decent forecast for the weekend.  We'll just try for one round.  It will be Thursday's round tomorrow on Friday, then we can get a better taste of what's going on for the rest of the week.
Q.  When you're considering the options, do you consult the players and get their input?
SLUGGER WHITE:  No, we don't.  When you deal with the competitors in the field, it's kind of what fits them at this point in time.  It doesn't work that way.  We consult the tournament directors at the tournament, our staff, television.  Again, our objective is right here with The International, trying to finish 72 holes by Sunday.
Q.  Could you see maybe the cuts would be changed?
SLUGGER WHITE:  I could see that, yes.  I could.  And I'm not    that's something that is going to have to be decided after tomorrow.
Q.  What is best case scenario?  Finishing tomorrow and then would it be 36 Saturday?
SLUGGER WHITE:  No.  We would look at either    play 18 again on Saturday, finish our second round, cut, then we're going to have to see.  Again, that's what I'm saying.  Tomorrow is our big day.  That will depend a lot on what we do Saturday, Sunday and/or Monday.  I don't mean to be so evasive, but I can't get there yet.
Q.  When will you make a decision on (indiscernible)?
SLUGGER WHITE:  We will be doing that tomorrow.
Q.  That's a done deal?
SLUGGER WHITE:  Yeah.
Q.  With next week being a major, does that play more into it than if it was just a regular TOUR event?
SLUGGER WHITE:  It does not.  Again, The International is our main concern, that's what we're dealing with.  If Monday is part of it, that's where we're going.
Q.  Can you describe some of the things you saw on the course.  Bunkers sound like they're one of the biggest challenges.
SLUGGER WHITE:  Bunkers were full of water.  They were pumping out there this morning early, again, to try to get ahead of the curve.  It just wasn't happening.  I think we had some ducks swimming in the fairway at 9.  The fairways on the Back 9   12, 13, 15 and 15   were major concerns.  There's just nowhere for it to go.  But the bunkers were a big concern.
Q.  (No microphone.)
SLUGGER WHITE:  That's what I understand.  I heard that.  I'm not a hundred percent sure.  They might have been sinking out there, I don't know, so wet (laughter).
Q.  Compared to other places where you've had rain delays, how bad is this?
SLUGGER WHITE:  We hit our first tee shot Atlanta on Saturday morning, and it only sleeted, rained and snowed that week.  Last year here on Wednesday was maybe as bad as I've seen, probably close to about two inches of hail.  Pretty soupy out there right now.
Q.  Has this year been worse than most?  Start of the year was tough as far as weather delays.
SLUGGER WHITE:  This year has been very difficult.  I can probably remember three years ago, it was just as bad.  But we started out in the rain, and we all felt coming off the West Coast we had webs in our feet, it was that bad.  Then we got a little stretch there for about a month where it was pretty good.  I think starting at Hilton Head, we went through Texas with no problems, and then we got
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Little delay in New Orleans, but it wasn't that bad.
SLUGGER WHITE:  No, it wasn't.  The last three or four weeks, we've had some problems, too.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  I have a list of those that were handed out.
Q.  Do you have an amount of rain that's fallen in the last 24 hours?
SLUGGER WHITE:  Two and a half hours ago we were at 2.27, I think is what it was.  I'd say we're getting pretty close to two and a half inches out there.
Q.  (No microphone.)
SLUGGER WHITE:  It's a little better than today, but not a great deal.  Percentage wise, it's a little better.  We were like at 60% today.  I think we're in the 40%.  It is dicey tomorrow.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you.
SLUGGER WHITE:  Thank you all.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT