84 LUMBER CLASSIC OF PENNSYLVANIA
September 19, 2003
Slugger White
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TODD BUDNICK:  Slugger White is the PGA TOUR tournament director for this week.  Each week one of our rules officials is also a tournament director on our side of the operation, as well. 

Why don't you talk about the unfortunate circumstances today, just the rain kept us from playing.

SLUGGER WHITE:   Exactly.  We've been here since about 5:30 this morning, and it's gotten steadily worse, as you can see out there right now, and it's not getting any better.  We've probably got another two hours of in rain, and then hopefully the wind will keep blowing and maybe it can dry this place up. 

We've got about seven fairways out there that were underwater this morning and they got steadily got worse and that was the reason.  We were just at a point in time where it just didn't make any sense. 

It was probably going to be  -- if it quit raining and we made the announcement at 11:30, had it quit raining right then, we were looking at two to three hours to get the golf course ready.  So we were kind of done, for lack of a better word.


Q.  What's the schedule from this point on?

SLUGGER WHITE:   We are going to play Friday's round tomorrow, same times.  And we are going to announce tomorrow whether we are going to play 36 holes on Sunday, which we will cut the nearest number to 60, and that may  -- we may not make this decision until later on in the afternoon.  We are trying to make it before these players finish.  They are going to know something before they finish what we are going to do. 

We may find that we hold them till Sunday morning to tell them what we are going to do, which is a little unusual, but that's been the general consensus.  Rather than going down the road, they would rather wait and see.  It's all going to depend on the Sunday.  For 36 holes, we need 12 hours, and that's about all we have, from about 7:15 to about  -- we could probably play 7:30, 7:40, but that's pretty much maxed out right there. 


Q.  Is there an option of cutting it to 54 holes or playing Monday?

SLUGGER WHITE:   Monday is in the mix, as well.  Monday is there.  Let's just say we have a bad forecast for Sunday where we are locked in, we would extend into Monday.  We could extend into Monday to play 36 holes on Monday.  There's a lot of different things.  Unfortunately I can't give you a concrete answer.  It's one of those things where we are not going to be able to make the decision until it's presented to us. 


Q.  So it could still be 54, still could be 72? 

SLUGGER WHITE:   Exactly. 


Q.  Would you say cutting back to 60  -- wasn't the plan 70? 

SLUGGER WHITE:   If we play 72 holes for four days, if we play 36 in one day, the regulation is cut to the nearest number to 60 players; that's in one day.  You actually still make the cut at 7.0, so guys that are not allowed to play on that day will still receive like last place money.  They just won't be allowed to play, just like what happened at the John Deere Classic.


Q.  Just too hard to play that many guys in one day?

SLUGGER WHITE:   We can't do it.  If we have to cut 70 to 80 players, it's impossible. 


Q.  Inaudible?

SLUGGER WHITE:   It could extend into Sunday morning.  They are going to know about what kind of decision we're going to make, whether we are going to play 36 holes.  But we could hold them to Sunday morning and say, you know, fellas we are not going to play; or yes, we are going to play.  That's kind of been the general consensus what the players want in that situation.  They don't mind waiting around till Sunday morning and telling them:  Guys we are going to play 36 holes and you guys are not going to play with us unfortunately.


Q.  So guys that still made the cut  --

SLUGGER WHITE:   But may not play, exactly. 


Q.  When would you  -- do you feel you would be able to start tomorrow playing all holes?

SLUGGER WHITE:   This is supposed to get out of here before dark, as far as the rain goes. 

And I might add that Brian Anderson and his crew have done a great job out there.  They have absolutely, they have gone above and beyond.  They have been working their tail ends off.  My hat is off to them. 


Q.  We were told earlier that the golf course is actually draining better than expected.

SLUGGER WHITE:   The greens are fine.  The problem is the fairways where we can't play by the rules.  We are going to have to take guys to play up in the fairway with the casual water.  When you take relief, obviously you have to take full relief. 


Q.  What holes were the --

SLUGGER WHITE:   Our big ones were 1, 2, 4  -- 5 was okay because it drains down and we could have gone to the hillside.  6 was getting bad; 8 in the driving zone; and the entire hole at 9 was really bad. 

Then on the back nine, I think we had 15 was iffy.  16 was not good. 

Once we got to 13, 14 like that, we were pretty much done. 


Q.  Was there a hole where you had to pump out a bunker?

SLUGGER WHITE:   8, the long fairway bunker, we couldn't play by the rules there at all.  But they did get a pumper out.  They did get seven or eight pumps out there.  Like I said, they really busted themselves out there.


Q.  Will it be lift, clean and place?

SLUGGER WHITE:   I don't think there's any question we'll probably do that.  I mean, there's no way to get the fairways mowed.  They are too wet.  Unless something would just be drastic, I don't see us doing anything but that.  

TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you, Slugger. 




End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT