MARCONI PENNSYLVANIA CLASSIC
September 21, 2001
Slugger White
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
SLUGGER WHITE: We've had a precedent set in the past where we've had markers for singles. Years ago we had Brian Claar play at Doral, and someone who disqualified himself and went back out and played with John Huston. He withdrew, and he asked -- he asked me if he could play as his marker and I said yes he could. It fits right in our system. It just fits in our system. He didn't want to abandon these guys. Arnold asked me coming up 16, he said, "I want to withdraw," and I said that's fine. 
 
Q. This isn't addressed in the official rules? 
 
SLUGGER WHITE: No. We've had markers a lot. We've done it a lot. Usually guys don't want to do that, but Arnold being the person that he is, didn't want to leave those guys out there hanging in a pair out there. It's like there were some -- they would be happy to play with his marker. I don't know if he -- like I said, it's a precedent that's been set in the past, and it's really pretty simple, quite honestly.  
 
Q. That was at 16?
 
SLUGGER WHITE: I'm not sure. It was somewhere in there.  
 
Q. What happened at Doral?
 
SLUGGER WHITE: I don't remember what happened. That was years ago. John Huston was playing with someone, somebody that disqualified themselves or they withdrew and he was out there -- he may have been in the last group. He may have been the last group. He was in the last three groups. I can't remember what it was, but like I say, he wanted a marker and Brian Claar had already played that morning and we said, of course.  
 
Q. So they let him go out and play again? 
 
SLUGGER WHITE: Yeah, it's like you want a single playing the third, second or last guy? It's not fair to the competitor. So that's pretty much it.  
 
Q. What about the rest of the week? What do you do with this, finish the round tomorrow and go off on both sides in threesomes? 
 
SLUGGER WHITE: Hopefully we can get back on track and play pairs on Sunday. That's a perfect world. That's a perfect world. Don't hold me to that. 
 
Q. Are you pretty much on the same schedule today and tomorrow --
 
SLUGGER WHITE: I think today we'll play a little bit more golf, hole-wise. We stopped at 7:15 last night, but we didn't start until like 8:20 -- inaudible -- hopefully the last group is going to be 5:38, is what it came up as. We are looking at playing maybe a couple extra holes. We got trapped this morning with fog and could not get started. We didn't go until 8:45. We were all set to go by 8:30, and then the 11th hole just fogged in on us again.  
 
End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT