THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 12, 2000
Slugger White
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 SLUGGER WHITE: I guess everyone saw what happened on TV and I got -- we got several
phone calls. I got several on my cell phone, and to look at the tape and I went to the NBC
truck, looked at the tape conservatively ten times and then I took Brian in there after --
before he signed his card and explained exactly what the rule was and he had some
questions about it. We looked at the tape, he and I looked at it another five or six
times, I am guessing, I don't know how many times, but we rolled it, backed it up, put
their -- they have some kind of a monitor that has seconds on there. It was 13 plus
seconds ball and it subsequently fell in. That is what the rule says. 
 
Q. Can you specify exactly what the rule says?
 
 SLUGGER WHITE: If you want, I can read it verbatim, if I can. I can give you a -- 
 
Q. The pertinent issue was whether it had been more than ten seconds?
 
 SLUGGER WHITE: Right, that was the whole thing, you are allowed a reasonable time to
get there, and after ten seconds the ball is deemed to be at rest; whether it is moving or
not, it is deemed to be at rest. If it subsequently falls in, then you are assessed a
one-stroke penalty. Does that explain it a little bit? 
 
Q. What do you do if the ball is moving, you can't hit a moving ball, can you?
 
 SLUGGER WHITE: Well, in this situation, that doesn't -- whether the ball is moving or
not, after ten seconds, it is deemed to be at rest. 
 
Q. Not to get a thousand hypotheticals, how do you stop to say, tie your shoes, then
went onto the ball?
 
 SLUGGER WHITE: I mean -- 
 
Q. That is the only thing I am not clear about. Can you explain that reasonable amount
of time?
 
 SLUGGER WHITE: Yeah, well, it is like we are going to give him a reasonable amount of
time to tie his shoes, obviously. But that reasonable amount of time, he walked there and
he kind of walked to the side and looked and he was motioning the ball to go in. Obviously
he could see it moving and then after that ten seconds, whether it is moving or not, that
makes no difference. It is deemed to be at rest.  
 
Q. Because it is on the lip?
 
 SLUGGER WHITE: Right overhanging the hole. 
 
Q. How did you make the determination when to start the clock?
 
 SLUGGER WHITE: We went back, looked at the tape when he got to the ball, which was a
reasonable time to get there, and he agreed. I said, would you agree this is a reasonable
time. He said, yes. That is when we started from there. We backed it up. We did
everything. 
 
Q. Would you say -- since you said you looked at it at least ten times back and forth,
clearly you weren't sure, if you are doing it that many times exactly if it was or was not
a rule violation at the beginning?
 
 SLUGGER WHITE: The first one I saw, I was not sure. Then they had the overhead blimp
shot, then I was sure. 
 
Q. Would he have gotten a violation if somebody hadn't called it in? Would you guys
have been aware of this had somebody not called it in? What if people don't call it in?
 
 SLUGGER WHITE: We have people from our office call as well and we had several viewers
call as well.  
 
Q. Where were you when you first became aware of this? You weren't out at 17 at the
time, were you?
 
 SLUGGER WHITE: I was -- I had just left the -- I don't know where I was. 18, behind
18th green, trying -- getting ready, we think we are going to have a playoff. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT