THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE INSURANCE
May 31, 2013
Slugger White
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CHRIS REIMER:   We welcome Slugger White, Vice‑President of Rules & Competitions in the PGA Tour.   A few delays, a few suspensions, and finally called play at 7:07.   Talk us through the day and maybe what the plans are for tomorrow.  
    SLUGGER WHITE:   Well, here we are at Memorial.   I was in hopes that as bad of weather we've had all day that this might be the year for Memorial, but it didn't happen.  
    We just got‑‑ we got hit.   When we stopped, stopped the first time, I think it was like 2:36, something like that, it was something that went by us, we were down like 22 minutes.   Got back out and thought we were going to have a decent shot at going.  
    And then we had it hit us again.   It was just a little too close.  
    I'm trying to think‑‑ it's all kind of jumbled right now.   We stopped at 4:49.   We had some pretty substantial winds coming at us that did subside a bit.   And we thought we could get through and it looked like it was only going to last maybe an hour.   And we thought, again, we were trying to get rolling, trying to get finished tonight.   And we had that hour and probably almost 15 minutes‑‑ about an hour and a half, I guess, and we couldn't‑‑ we had lightning within about 12 miles of us and looked like again some substantial winds coming at us.   And pretty heavy rains, as well.   It didn't materialize a hundred percent of what we thought it was going to do but that's where we are.  
    We're going to resume tomorrow morning at 7:30, fingers crossed.   The golf course stood up extremely well.   My hats off to Paul Latshaw and his staff.   They've done a wonderful job getting us ready.   And in a perfect world probably 9:30 to 11:30, we're trying to get finished, because we've got some pretty bad weather looking at us tomorrow afternoon starting about 2:30.   
    We may be talking about this tomorrow afternoon about 3:00 sitting in here again, I don't know.   That's a fact.   I mean, anything can happen here.   But that's kind of what we're trying right now.  
   
 Q.   So it'll be a traditional third round start as soon as 2 is over?  
    SLUGGER WHITE:   Correct.   We'll probably turn it around‑‑ we can turn it around in about a half hour.   And it looks like we've got about an hour and a half of golf left in the morning and that gets us through about 9:00, turnaround, and go two tees, obviously, and 9:30 to 11:30, approximately.   
   
 Q.   Obviously the lightning, that's a given.   But at what point, because of the speed of the greens and the golf course itself does the wind become the issue?   
    SLUGGER WHITE:   I mean, when it's sustained that much, there would probably be a point in time where we'd probably have to stop.   But that's when stuff is blowing around out there.   Then it becomes dangerous for everybody out there.   We don't need spectators out there.   I don't think we could put up with much of a 50 mile an hour wind out there, with the green speeds.  
   
 Q.   Do you know how much is in the rain gauge after those two?  
    SLUGGER WHITE:   We had like one‑tenth after the first went through.   I did not check a second time.   
    Like I said, the golf course held up extremely well.   We had some debris out there on a couple of fairways, a couple of greens and a few bunkers.   But other than that it was more than playable.  
   
 Q.   The forecast that you're looking at for 2:30 or so tomorrow afternoon, is that a big front or is that through fast?  
    SLUGGER WHITE:   It's a front that's going to be here, and probably‑‑ and more than likely will extend into Sunday morning.   That's kind of what our weatherman is telling us right now.   But the good thing is we can play until about 9:00 here on Sunday night.   So supposedly he feels like when this front gets here tomorrow evening, into the evening, and it will be out of here between 9:00   and 10:00 Sunday morning, and it will be clear after that.   Again, that's in a perfect world.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about how‑‑ what happens here in regards to a Monday finish?   You don't factor in anything other than trying to get this tournament done, correct?  
    SLUGGER WHITE:   Correct.   You're talking about The Open qualifier?   I know we've had it before where they've rescheduled guys that have like a Tuesday qualifier at some other city or whatever.   And they've done that in the past.  
    I don't know what their situation is as far as‑‑ I don't know where they're playing.  
   
 Q.   Brookside?  
    SLUGGER WHITE:   Okay.   So they may have a contingency, maybe a Tuesday, I don't know.  
   
 Q.   But just so we understand your rule, effectively, basically, you will do everything possible to finish 72 holes, even if it goes through Monday, then when it gets to Tuesday, then there's some wiggle room, is that correct, if you couldn't get 72 holes in by Monday night?  
    SLUGGER WHITE:   Oh, yeah.   We could‑‑ Tuesday is our drop dead.   But I feel pretty confident we'll be through here Sunday night.   It might be late.   But I feel pretty good about Sunday night right now.   
    CHRIS REIMER:   Thanks so much.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT