MAUI JIM MAUI INVITATIONAL
November 20, 2017
Mike Rhoades
Jonathan Williams
Malik Crowfield
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Marquette - 94, VCU - 83
THE MODERATOR: Go ahead, Coach.
MIKE RHOADES: A great fight.  They were tough today, they did a great job of getting more opportunities that I think it really cost us.  Put ourselves in a tough position, giving really good shooters extra shots over and over again.  Not only did they shoot 36 threes, 36 of them, but making 13, and some of them were second and third shots, and that really cost us.
We've got to have better carryover, and we've got to do it quick in 24 hours.
THE MODERATOR: Questions for the players.
Q. Malik, what was going well for you guys in those early minutes that allowed you guys to take the lead?
MALIK CROWFIELD: Was being aggressive, and the defense caused a little bit of turnovers and they started getting hot.  We had to call a timeout early, so we had to keep going after that.
Q. Malik, you had some of your own success shooting the ball from deep.  What was the key to getting open shots there?
MALIK CROWFIELD: I just had to find the open window, and Jonny was going to find me.  So I just had to find myself an open spot and knock down some threes for the team.
Q. What adjustments do you feel you need to make for the next game?
JONATHAN WILLIAMS: I would say locking out the defensive rebounds, you know.  They got a lot of second-chance opportunities.  They capitalized off that.  It kind of like broke the spirit, I guess, for lack of a better term.  I think if we do that with [indiscernible].
Q. Jonathan, you had three rebounds midway through that first half.  You kind of rebounded from that in the second half?
JONATHAN WILLIAMS: I still wanted to stay aggressive, but I also had to stay smart.  It was definitely my fault on all three fouls.  I made stupid mistakes, so I apologize to the team for that.  That was my fault.
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Coach.
Q. Making those second-chance points Marquette had, what was the biggest thing to getting those offensive rebounds?
MIKE RHOADES: Long shots, long rebounds.  You have to hold yours to block out.  You can't just think your teammate's going to get them.  You have to go get them.  You have to do your job.  You have a saying, if you can't get the rebound, the guy you're boxing out can sure get it.  And that didn't happen.  You look at the 15 offensive rebounds, and of course, Hauser had a bunch, their big guy, No. 12, did, but everybody else on their team had one.  So that means the ball's flying around.  So couple times we're just leaking out, a couple times we were just standing there thinking our teammate's going to get them, we've got to go eat, we've got to get that ball.  A couple times we just sort of cut our own throats, so we were in a position to make it a one-possession game.  We were pretty close getting one three, and the offensive rebound, and they hit a third one.  You just can't do that.
We did a really good job of rebounding against UVA on Friday.  It was an impetus, long shots, long rebounds, and we've got to have better carryover.
Q. What have you learned about your team in the first game of this tournament and the early-season games so far?
MIKE RHOADES: Well, we have a lot of fight.  You guys see, we have a lot of fight, and we can score the ball.  We're leaving a lot of points here since we got together.  But we've got to guard.  I think for the guys that want to go play and ball out, as I like to say, but you've got to get tough on the defensive end.  If you want to beat teams like Marquette, you have to get stops and consecutive stops.
I love the fight of my team.  I love how much they love playing with each other, they care about each other, they celebrate each other's successes.  Now it starts with me.  We've just got to get better and better on the defensive end.  If we could have some carry over on the defensive end, we're going to be a good team.  But you get exposed in tournaments like this and games like this, the deal gets soft against teams that are well-coached and teams that are offensive rebounding.
Q. What went so well against Howard in the first half?  What were you guys doing and then kind of what happened in the second half that he got free?
MIKE RHOADES: He just got loose in the second half.  I thought a couple times in the first half, we were there on the catch.  We put it down.  I thought we helped a little better on the first half, especially on the end.  In the second half we let them get loose a little bit.  We let them catch it.  He's so quick and so low to the ground, he can guard by you or if you give him a little bit of space, he can put that three in your eye, and he did that.
Q. Coach, what do you think is the key to starting out with that burner defense?  What do you think are the biggest things?
MIKE RHOADES: Carryover.  I told the guys there is nobody I'd rather coach than these guys.  They're coachable, they're so into it, but we don't have consistent carryover from practice to practice and practice to games.  If we would have played defense like we did the other day against UVA, it would have been different.  But we didn't.  And that's what we needed.  It comes with an experienced team.  It comes with a team that you're searching and fighting late in the game.  But we've got to have better carryover, without a doubt.  So we've got to have carryover.
Q. What progress are you seeing in the practice?  You kind of caused some trouble early in the game.  And of course, 24 points off turnovers.
MIKE RHOADES: Yeah, we pressed I thought better today than we did against UVA.  We prepped.  We wanted to prep today.  I thought it really helped us in the second half even though we didn't get turnovers.  They missed a lot of early threes.  They missed some tough twos.  That is the wear and tear of the press, and you can wear them down.  But we did get rebounds out of it.  Three or four times they took a tough three at the end of the prep.  It's almost like a turnover.  You go collect the rebound, and we didn't do that.  I thought our bench was really good today with great energy.  Some guys are going to get more minutes because of the way they came off the bench today, and we need that playing our style of play.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT