TOSTITOS FIESTA BOWL: STANFORD v OKLAHOMA STATE
December 28, 2011
Jamie Blatnick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JAMIE BLATNICK:   We don't have a name for a lot of this stuff.   Sometimes you got to get lined up in the gap.   If you get misaligned and the linebacker is not there and you are supposed to be there, you get gassed for 20, 30 yards.   Definitely can't have that happen.
So I feel a lot more confident with it.   At the same time, it is still‑‑ I expect to see something new.   I don't expect to go there and haven't it figured out already.   So you just got to play on the fly.

Q.   Who are the main guys for eyeballing the formation and aligning everybody?   Who is making calls? 
JAMIE BLATNICK:   I thought you were asking me about keys.

Q.   No, I'm asking who is responsible.   Is it Caleb? 
JAMIE BLATNICK:   Caleb gives a lot of the calls. 
And you can tell him I said this:   He is not very loud. 

Q.   Yell louder? 
JAMIE BLATNICK:   Yeah.   He is not very loud.   So I tend to give a lot‑‑ some of the formation calls.   It is really‑‑ it is really open mic back there.   It is not really like, okay, we are waiting for Caleb or Mike or somebody or Markelle to say something.   It is one of those things where it comes up, we're saying‑‑ we are giving formation calls and alerts and really the quarterback gives a lot of alerts or route alerts and things like that.   It is kind of a group thing.   There is no one person that says it.

Q.   You mentioned you have seen some things you didn't have a name for.   Give me an example. 
JAMIE BLATNICK:   They got‑‑ they have sets where they bring in three more offensive tackles and have this ridiculous unbalanced line.

Q.   Super off balance? 
JAMIE BLATNICK:   Yeah.   I have never seen that before.   And I was like, what do you call that?   Truck or tank?   We ended up calling it probably both. 
It was just so different because you are used to seeing a couple offensive linemen and a tight end.   They have got four offensive linemen and a tight end.   Which gap do we slide to now?   It is a tricky thing. 
Once you get the hang of it and figure things out, it is not too bad.

Q.   Will you be going up against Jonathan Martin; do you know? 
JAMIE BLATNICK:   I know numbers.   Not so well with names.   77? 

Q.   I can't even remember what his number is.   He is a big guy. 
JAMIE BLATNICK:   Tackle? 

Q.   Yeah, offensive tackle. 
JAMIE BLATNICK:   Then yeah. 

Q.   I'm curious.   Your defense is going up against the guy who is going to be probably the number one pick in the NFL draft.   What do you think of that challenge? 
JAMIE BLATNICK:   I think it is a great opportunity.   You don't get that chance very often.   And you just got to take advantage of it.

Q.   Well, this Stanford team, they love to just grind the ball out on the ground.   That hasn't been your team's strong suit this year.   What do you think of that?   What do you think of your chances of stuffing their ground game? 
JAMIE BLATNICK:   You know, I think it is a good challenge.   We know they will come at us heavier on games.   They have big backs and big linemen. 
It is going to come to effort and giving it to them and not letting them control the tempo and the momentum of the game.

Q.   One thing their offensive coordinator mentioned, their defensive coaches pointed out to their offense how quickly the OSU offense gets started and scoring in the first quarter.   He said, obviously, they do a good job of getting offenses out of what they want to do and that just feeds their defense on turnovers.   Do you get that sense?   Do you see that scenario?   Is that when a game starts going that way, you got to start looking, okay, now they are going to go for broke? 
JAMIE BLATNICK:   When the offense, when they start doing well, we do well also.   We have more reps obviously and a lot more snaps out there. 
Once a team starts getting behind, they get a little bit desperate and now we need some chuck plays instead of 2‑, 3‑yard plays and we got to score instead of eating up the clock.
That's crucial.   A lot of teams come in with the thought of we are going to keep their offense off the field and keep them cold.   But the offense gets the ball and scores, now it is like, okay, now we are behind the eight ball.   Let's get going.   It speeds up the tempo of the game and helps the defense out.

Q.   Have you had a good time so far?   You guys get more free time at this Bowl.   There is not a lot of organized activities.   You get to do things on your own?
JAMIE BLATNICK:   I have had a blast out here so far.   You know, this is a beautiful town.   I went to the mall yesterday.   If they didn't have maps, I would be lost in there for a week.   That place is huge.   I thought, This is ridiculous.   It is a lot of fun, hanging out with the teammates.   Played a couple games of shuffleboard.   Never played that before.   Not too shabby at it.

Q.   You seem to be game adaptable.   You were one of the guys on the chess set in the Lubbock airport. 
JAMIE BLATNICK:   I do play a lot of games.   I can do a lot of things (laughter).







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT