GIPPSLAND TROPHY
February 7, 2021
Elise Mertens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








E. MERTENS/K. Kanepi
6-4, 6-1
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. Two titles in Hobart, now here.  This seems to be a really good week for you on the calendar.
ELISE MERTENS:   Yeah, I mean, the first tournament I played this year, so I'm very happy about the result, the way I played.
But it seems like, yeah, after Abu Dhabi, had a bit of a struggle with the shoulder, everything turned out great.
Q. You mentioned the shoulder issue.  How was it at the start of the week?  Were you worried about it at all?  What do you think was the key to getting through this week successfully?
ELISE MERTENS:   Well, we had the two weeks of quarantine, playing tennis, doing fitness.  I started playing again at that time, but I didn't feel anything.  That was a good sign.  Of course, you have to maintain everything, get everything loose.
But, yeah, I'm not feeling my shoulder, so that's good.  Yeah, I had a good preparation towards this tournament, so it gives you confidence to go on.
Q. Please talk through the match, how you were able to win it.  Did you have some special game plan for Kanepi, who is a very big hitter?
ELISE MERTENS:   Yeah, she's definitely a big hitter.  When the first serves go in, you have to make the returns to let her play.  That's what I did.  I didn't give a lot of free points, so that's always good against her.
Yeah, you know, get that one ball back, let her play the game, get the balls back, but also try to, if you have the chance, attack.
Q. Talk about what you think you did that was key, especially in the match over Svitolina here, Garcia as well.  What do you think you were doing well this week?
ELISE MERTENS:   You know, try not to give anything away, no free points.  My first serve was going good this week, so that definitely helps to get the advantage during the point, at the beginning of the point.
Also, yeah, let the opponents play, try to play my game, what I do, what I like to do.  Yeah, it worked out this week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT