ROLAND GARROS
May 31, 2019
Elise Mertens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. SEVASTOVA/E. Mertens
6-7, 6-4, 11-9
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. After such a match, so many things happened.  Do you say to yourself, I lost it at the beginning of the third?  Or do you say, She just played better?
ELISE MERTENS: Well, it's difficult to say.  I think that she played very well at important points, but her serve was very good, her first serve.  It was difficult to win points when she was serving.
So mentally I gave everything.  I played point after point.  I didn't really focus on the scoreboard.
Q. On match points, as you said, she played very, very well.  You didn't see any opportunity on these match points, or do you have regrets?
ELISE MERTENS: No, she played well the match points once or twice on the line.  As I said, I think she played very well at the important points.
That's tennis.  Mentally there are positive and negative things.  I think I was present mentally, so it's better than the second round, but I think that the level was very good.  The crowd was supporting me, so it's an atmosphere I love.
But I lost, so...
Q. She made a lot of dropshots.  Did you expect this type of game from her?  Because she likes to play with very good touch.
ELISE MERTENS: I think I ran on all the dropshots, and she's very good with these shots.  You can't really anticipate that.
Every time she did good shots, she played good shots, and her dropshots were really difficult to get.  I tried a few dropshots or I tried hitting hard against her.  I tried everything.
Q. It's irony because you lose, but is it not your best match for a long time?  Can it help you to forget the defeat?
ELISE MERTENS: Well, for confidence, it's okay.  I don't think I'm really down.  But I played really well, indeed.  It was not my day, but I also did good things for the future.
Q. I think that in Flanders you say "net niet."  Is that the summary of your season on clay or a lot of matches were tight?
ELISE MERTENS: No, today was different.  She played very well on the match points.  It was not like other matches in Madrid or wherever.
I think my level was there, but it was not my day.
Q. We saw that you fell four or five times.  Is it a question of wrong running, wrong shoes, or she was making you run too much?
ELISE MERTENS: I think that the dropshots also -- well, I was trying to get every ball, so I was slipping a bit, but it was just three or four times I fell, so I think she played very well with her dropshots.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT