U.S. OPEN
August 29, 2018
Elise Mertens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








E. MERTENS/V. Lapko
6-2, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. I would say getting it done in short order today was a good idea, especially with the heat and humidity.  How happy are you with the way this round went?
ELISE MERTENS: I'm happier than my first round.  I played more aggressive, felt like I had to because she's a good player.  If she can make you run, making each corner, then it's going to be tough.
Also especially with the heat, I wanted to make the match a little shorter.  I felt in the second set I was getting a little bit in her head and just pushing a little more.
Q. You had good hard courts results coming in.  Just talk about the level of confidence coming into this US Open.  Maybe a chance to make a deep run here?
ELISE MERTENS: Yeah, I hope so.  I mean, I played a lot of matches.  I won a lot of matches.
Yeah, I have confidence, and, you know, I know where I stand.  I know my game.  So I hope to improve every match.  I'm happy about my level today, and I hope I can keep it up.
Q. How much does the results in Australia kind of give you a sense of confidence that you can play with the best players and go deep into Grand Slam tournaments?
ELISE MERTENS: Yeah, I think that was one of the keys, making it to the semis, that I can really, you know, play as good as the other ones, compete on the same level.  I think that was really the key for me, to really believe in myself.  Yeah, I had some good results so far.  You know, keep working.
Q. Your next opponent isn't going to be a walkover.  Talk about the matchup there.  Your next opponent.
ELISE MERTENS: Well, I didn't really play her, so I don't really know.
Yeah, she's also a great competitor.  A lot of experience.  But it's going to be another match and I have to focus on myself.
Q. Can you talk a little bit about your opponent?  I believe you played her earlier this year on clay?
ELISE MERTENS: Yeah?  Oh, this one, yeah, yeah.  I thought the next one (smiling).
Q. No, I'm sorry.
ELISE MERTENS: Yeah, I played her on clay in Lugano.  It was a tough three-setter.  I think I was dominating in the second set especially.  I felt like I was getting in her head a little bit.  Maybe the heat was there.  Maybe she didn't feel the ball pretty well.
Yeah, I think I pushed a little more.  I think I was ready to keep fighting.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT