ROLAND GARROS
June 4, 2018
Elise Mertens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. HALEP/E. Mertens
6-2, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. I have the impression that in front of her, there is no solution.  Is it frustrating?  Is your game not adequate to you or have you not found the solution?
ELISE MERTENS: She plays very well.  She was very strong today.  For me, it was too high a level.
It's a good experience, anyway.  I was not in a good way today.  She was too good for me today.
Q. You started the match pretty well.  The four first games were very close.  What were you unable to do afterwards to continue on that pace?  Was it too fast?  Too strong?  Too hard?
ELISE MERTENS: She was too strong, too good for me.  The first four games was more or less my level, but it was just these four games.
Afterwards, I made a lot of mistakes.  I wanted to be too aggressive.  But she was everywhere.  She served pretty well.  That's it.
Q. Unfortunately it's someone who you're going to find very often on your way if you reach the second week like you did here.  What do you think you should improve to be able to beat her?
ELISE MERTENS: These are matches that you like, because she was too good.  But it's also very good for me because it highlights what I have to improve on.
I know that the top 10 is another level, but I'm almost there at the global level but not yet.
Q. (Off microphone.)
ELISE MERTENS: She's very stable.  She plays aggressively, but she's also very good in defense.
Q. It was also your second experience on the center court.  Could you explain if you feel well?  If it's too big, too much pressure?
ELISE MERTENS: I was feeling well.  Also, the court is beautiful.  It's really very nice setting.
When you play on center court, you know that you're playing against a top player.  But I had a lot of Belgian supporters, so it was a beautiful feeling.
Q. With respect to Madrid, could you say what you have learned, what you have done better, what she did better?
ELISE MERTENS: In Madrid, between Madrid and now, actually there is not too much of a difference, I must say.
I think she played better today.  She played at a level which was really too high for me, an excellent level.  But also mentally she was present.
Q. What are your feelings when you will leave Paris?
ELISE MERTENS: Of course I'm pretty sad right now, because I didn't do the show and didn't win on the court today.
But I'm quite happy, also, because fourth round for the first time, second week for the first time.  So I have mixed feelings, I must say.
Q. What is your schedule until Wimbledon?
ELISE MERTENS: Next week I will be playing in 's-Hertogenbosch, Rosmalen, then Birmingham, Eastbourne, and Wimbledons.
Q. (In English.)  How would you describe in one single word Simona Halep's performance?
ELISE MERTENS: (In English.)  She had a very good performance.  A great player.  Mentally she was there.  She did great things.  She attacked.  The ball was finished, but she's also a great defender.
Q. (In French.)  Regarding what you said during the tournament, do you think that Simona Halep is a candidate for the title?
ELISE MERTENS: (In French.)  Yes, absolutely.
Q. (In French.)  Is it your favorite?
ELISE MERTENS: (In French.)  Not really today, but I think that she's definitely a favorite.  With the level she played today, definitely.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT