GIPPSLAND TROPHY
February 3, 2021
Elise Mertens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








E. MERTENS/C. Garcia
7-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. Talk us through your match and how you were feeling on the court today.
ELISE MERTENS:   I played a better match than yesterday.  I think everybody was holding serves.  Yeah, there weren't a lot of rallies, but overall I think it was a good match.
Second set, yeah, I served better.  I mean, I got some more second serves so I could attack.  I knew I had to attack the second serve because she's got a really good kick.
Yeah, overall I'm happy about the game.
Q. Just wanted to ask you about the sort of general atmosphere out there.  Been a long time since anybody's played anywhere.  Now you have six tournaments all going on at once.  What did it feel like, the nature of this unusual setup this week?
ELISE MERTENS:   It mean, it feels good.  It feels like almost normal again because people can come and watch.  It makes a difference.  It's fun to play when people come and watch, support.
Yeah, I mean, we can't complain.  We're in Melbourne playing in this beautiful event, beautiful site.  There's nothing to complain about.  I feel good.  Of course, I just want to play some matches.  Of course, I want to win some matches, too.
In general, it's really well organized.
Q. Are you someone who normally likes to play in the week right before a Grand Slam tournament or do you tend to take that time off?
ELISE MERTENS:   I normally do.  Well, it's a bit of a difference if you play in Australia.  Then, of course, yes.  But the week before the French Open, I normally don't play.  At Wimbledon, I do.  US Open, I don't.  It's a bit of a mix.
Q. Not really related to today.  I'm just wondering if you've ever had an experience during a match where you lost track of the score?  You thought maybe you had just won a game or set, but you hadn't, or the other way around?
ELISE MERTENS:   Maybe once or twice.  But I think all players pretty much know the score, especially when it gets like 4-All or 5-All.  You really have to step up your game.
Rarely, yeah.
Q. Is it that you just keep track always or do you look at the scores?
ELISE MERTENS:   You can kind of keep track.  I mean, it's two games, you have to sit down and get up again.  No, you keep track.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT