ROLAND GARROS
May 31, 2017
Elise Mertens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








E. MERTENS/R. Hogenkamp
6-3, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. What was the toughest part of the match?  Was it the fact that you managed to get back on track in the second set after the medical timeout?
ELISE MERTENS: Yeah, well, for me, I played better in the first, I'd say, than in the second.  But she wasn't all that well in the first, either.
But then she did better in the second set.  But my own level was not really that good today.  But I did my best, the way I always do.
Q. When you were led in the second, you never seemed frustrated or nervous.  Where do you find the calm under pressure?
ELISE MERTENS: I play point by point.  I really couldn't say (smiling).
But then again, I probably just have more experience than before.  I think that's it.
Q. Am I wrong, or are you almost more comfortable when you're facing better-seeded players than you?
ELISE MERTENS: Not really.  But today wasn't really a great day for me.  But I won, so, you know...
Q. Could you explain why you weren't having a good day?  Was it nerves, pressure?
ELISE MERTENS: Yeah, well, I was a bit nervous, which is bit normal, I guess.  I really can't say.  I tried to have an aggressive game play, but today it didn't really work.  She gives no speed.  So there are no fouls.  She runs great.  I think that's probably the way she plays.
Q. There are a lot of people who say that they draw more confidence from a match they win although they didn't play very well.  Your win today, although you weren't doing your best, do you think that builds confidence?
ELISE MERTENS: Of course.  There are matches that are good and others not so good.  I'm obviously very happy.  I'm in the third round now, which is fantastic.
Q. Next is Venus.  Do you think a miracle can happen?
ELISE MERTENS: I'll play like I always do.  To me, it's just another game.  It's the third round.
Of course my game play needs to be aggressive.  We'll just see how it goes.
Q. Do you have any memories of Venus Williams when you were perhaps younger?  Anything special that you would think about before you would play against her?
ELISE MERTENS: Well, of course, she's a player with huge experience.  I have already faced her in doubles in Wimbledon, but it's a whole different thing.
Q. I looked at the statistics.  Last time she was in a final here you must have been about six years old.
ELISE MERTENS: I couldn't say (smiling).
Q. If you think about her, do you have any special memory of a match you watched or saw?  Anything about her?
ELISE MERTENS: Of course her against Serena in the final in Australia.  But she always plays really well.  I need to play on my own level.  All we can do is wait and see.
Q. Of course doubles aren't singles.  Grass isn't clay.  But what did you notice special in Wimbledon?
ELISE MERTENS: She hits real hard.  She has a great serve.  She knows what to do.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT