IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 18, 2017
Joel Lanning
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOEL LANNING: I mean, continuing to play hard the whole time.  Not give it up.  I mean, honestly, I feel like the game definitely changed after that first turnover when they were driving on us and on the 5-yard line, when Peavy stripped it.  I think that was kind of like the game changer right there.   
And then, obviously, Reggie just kind of ended it right there.  Just kind of keep at them, like Coach Heacock says.   
 Q.  Coach Campbell said Peavy's play just epitomizes the season and the team that a lot of teams first and goal at the 3 would kind of bag it.  
JOEL LANNING: Yeah.   
 Q.  Does that feel right to you, that that play epitomizes what this team has been so far this year?  
JOEL LANNING: Absolutely.  I mean, I just, like, Coach Heacock's always saying, his big thing this week was lay your heart out there.  You do that, you'll give us a chance to win.  I think our guys did that.   
We're just going out there, playing hard every single snap.  We always talk about play harder, longer.  And Peavy made a great play.  Like you said, people can bag it on the red zone when teams are driving on you pretty good.  It's a long drive too, and it's kind of frustrating as a defense.   
But, I mean, props to our guys for sticking to it and keep playing, and we needed that big time.   
 Q.  What turned around for you guys?  It seemed like defensively in that first quarter, Baylor was kind of doing what they wanted.  By the second quarter, that's when it all changed.  
JOEL LANNING: Yeah.  Honestly, I don't know what it is about our second half defense right now.  I mean, I feel like we're a different team in the second half defensively, for whatever reason.  We've got to figure that out and make it a full game as a defense, playing like that.   
We know what we're capable of doing.  We've seen it.  In October, our defense was pretty stout.  When we got to November, for whatever reason, it's kind of fallen off a little bit, but we'll get it back to where it was.  This great coaching staff, and we know we've got great leaders and great players on this team that want to make it better.  So we'll be fine.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT