IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 21, 2017
Joel Lanning
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Iowa State - 31, Texas Tech - 13   
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Joel.   
 Q.  The touchdown at Oklahoma, did you see that as the turning point?  
JOEL LANNING: Yeah, I mean, it's kind of one of those deals where we were in a tight game and we needed something to happen.  Trevor and Kyle and the offense, you know, made a play for us.   
I think, I don't know, whatever it was, they gave us a spark.  We've just never looked back honestly since then, so...   
 Q.  (Question regarding the defense getting better as the game goes on.)  
JOEL LANNING: I don't know.  We started having a rough situation today.  We only lit up six instead of seven, which is big.  But I missed a tackle down there.  Could have been just a field goal or zero points out of it.   
But I think as the game goes on, we definitely do get a little more comfortable.  We kind of figure out what we're doing best, kind of just stick with those things.   
Honestly, if you watch the film, we don't do anything crazy.  We're either dropping and covering or (indiscernible).  We're not a defense that's going to give you 30 different looks, you know what I mean?  We're sticking with what we're rolling with.  Right now we're just clicking as a defense.   
 Q.  Marcel's play obviously was big.  From your vantage point, how did you see it play out?  
JOEL LANNING: I honestly couldn't see what it was.  I mean, they had three receivers.  I was playing the three.  I wasn't even really looking over there.  I was dropping to the three receiver.   
We worked on it all week, though, runs and screens, things like that.  I mean, honestly, that probably put the game away for us.  Gave us that extra momentum a little bit, right in the middle of the fourth quarter.  It was big.  We needed that.   
 Q.  You said the defense hasn't done anything crazy, yet you held the No. 4 scoring team in the country to essentially a touchdown today.  How were you able to do that?  
JOEL LANNING: Just playing basic defense.  I mean, Coach Campbell always said we should be able to go in a game and just play our basic defense, and we should be fine, able to hold teams.  That's kind of what we're doing.  We're not doing anything crazy, like I said.   
We're just playing 11 as 1, and right now everyone is doing their 1/11th.  We're just playing team defense right now.   
 Q.  Where is this team's confidence right now?  
JOEL LANNING: I mean, I don't know.  Pretty confident.  I mean, there's no reason not to be.  I mean, we got to move on from this.  We can celebrate today.  Tomorrow we got to come back to work, fix some mistakes.  Next week's a big week for us.  It's not going to be easy.  Every week is a tough week in the Big 12, so...   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT