ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
October 31, 2013
Kurt Fearnley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about your journey to get here, figuratively and literally.   
KURT FEARNLEY:   Yeah, it's been a year focused on new goals for me.   So I pulled out of World Championships, changed my training quite a bit.   I had a good run in Chicago, but the plan for the whole thing has been peaking at London and then peaking here.  
   
 Q.   When did you arrive here?   Like I said, how are you feeling?   Are you ready to go?   
KURT FEARNLEY:   I feel good.   Physically, I feel about as strong as I've ever been.   Only having raced one marathon for the last six months, it's really different.   So I'm not‑‑ you're never completely comfortable with how you've been in the last 5K or sometimes the last couple hundred meters, but as far as strength and fitness, I'm as good as I've ever been.  
   
 Q.   And you said you did‑‑ I apologize.   You peaked in London?   London was your focus?   How did you do?   
KURT FEARNLEY:   Won London actually.  
   
 Q.   I apologize.   Was it a good race?   Was it close?   Tell me about it.   
KURT FEARNLEY:   It was a good race.   We had to go straight from Boston to London.   So it was only a six‑day turnaround.   A bit full on, a bit of a strange experience there in Boston, but then‑‑  
   
 Q.   We'll come back to that.   
KURT FEARNLEY:   Yeah.   But then we just took off straight to London, and it was a good roll.   Came down to probably the last 50 meters.   There was seven or eight guys in the pack, and to be able to get that half meter and hold it and won it.  
   
 Q.   How is their finish?   Is it straight, fast, and flat?   
KURT FEARNLEY:   Yeah.   It's a right‑hand sweeping turn and then 250 meters to the finish line.   It's just coming out of a nice little box.   It's like a cycling race.   Trying to time it.   Had a good run with Chicago as well.   I was second, though.   You win, you lose sometimes.  
   
 Q.   So talk about Boston.   How was your race there?   
KURT FEARNLEY:   It's hard to actually reflect on the race.   You kind of‑‑ it's kind of like the race was almost disappeared, kind of like into incision.   We love the race.   We love the organizers, but the people there and the community is much more important.  
   
 Q.   Did you watch the baseball game last night?   
KURT FEARNLEY:   Yeah, I did.   I started rooting for Boston about five years ago.   I go to at least one Red Sox game every year.   Sometimes if they're on the road and we're passing through, I kind of catch their games.   
Actually, they played every week at home in between my training.   So like 9:30 till‑‑  
   
 Q.   Is that your home base?   
KURT FEARNLEY:   Yes.   So I watch them every morning, Sunday or Monday morning.   It was nice to kind of follow that through.   
And good for Boston.   There's one place that deserves a win, that deserves a bit of a break.  
   
 Q.   Absolutely.   Are you going to get out and see New York, or is it like you're here to race?   
KURT FEARNLEY:   I'm here to race.  
   
 Q.   Buckled down and all?   
KURT FEARNLEY:   This is my ninth‑‑  
   
 Q.   Blinders on?   
KURT FEARNLEY:   My ninth event.   Actually, no, because we were here last year.   Actually, we did a marathon.   We did it just on the streets, pushed down through Central Park and Battery Park and up the bypass route, down through the Bronx.   It was a wild experience.  
   
 Q.   I'll bet.   
KURT FEARNLEY:   The last 12 months have been really quite strange, right?   It's good to be back.  
   
 Q.   Nice to have you back.   
KURT FEARNLEY:   As long as you'll have me, I'll be here forever.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT