ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 4, 2011
Kurt Fearnley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. When you do a long effort, how long do you go?   
 KURT FEARNLEY: I would never push over 35K in training.  
  
  Q. Okay. Do you do that once a week?   
 KURT FEARNLEY: Yeah. So it's two sessions a day, Monday through Friday, and the long run, the 35K running on a Saturday.  
  
  Q. What kind of intervals do you do or do you do intervals?   
 KURT FEARNLEY: Intervals are anywhere from -- the more intensive intervals are actually up to about 12-minute efforts, those sorts of things and that's to keep the heart rate right above 185, 190.  
  
  Q. Do you do many road races that are less? Do you do half marathons?   
 KURT FEARNLEY: Not really. Not really. We used to race 10K's, and half marathons quite a lot. Now I only race one 10K a year. The marathons have pretty much cornered the market of wheelchair racing.  
  
  Q. How long has it taken to prepare for the marathon?   
 KURT FEARNLEY: Depends on what marathon. You peak at two marathons every year.  
  
  Q. So like New York?   
 KURT FEARNLEY: You peak at either Boston or London, and then Chicago or New York, usually. But mostly New York.   
 I love New York. It's tough. It's hard. Lots of people. It's done a lot of things good with my family being over here, my wife, and I've had my mom and dad over. They've seen this race here. It's just one of those races.  
  
  Q. What do you want to tell young kids who some are in chairs, but they see you as an inspiration. What do you want them to learn from your effort and your experience?   
 KURT FEARNLEY: I think it's a pretty big world out there. And sometimes you need to get the ball rolling. It's not completely up to you. There are ways around it. All you need is a racing chair, and I was fortunate that I benefited from people's generosity that got me a wheelchair, and I just ran with it. If they are looking for a wheelchair, if they are looking for a start, get in contact with me. Find me on social media, and we'll make sure that something gets set up.  
  
  Q. You're on Facebook? Do you Twitter?   
 KURT FEARNLEY: I'm on Twitter.  
  
  Q. How do you like Twitter?   
 KURT FEARNLEY: I love it. Facebook for me got a little bit creepy there for a while. You know, the messages that you can get that are behind closed doors. That's for me got a little bit scary. But Twitter, it's 140 characters, it's open so everyone sees what's approaching you, so I think that open communication gets rid of all the junk.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT