ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 26, 2016
Bronco Mendenhall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








COACH MENDENHALL: Yeah, I'm looking forward to an amazing challenge with a very good Louisville team coming into our stadium.  I've been impressed with what I've seen from them, not only in how they are coached, but their talent.  I like the improvement our team is making.  We're still struggling to be consistent enough long enough to have the success we want.
But I'm thrilled with the process and doing everything we can to help these players have the success we all want, so I'll take questions at this point.
Q. I know that you weren't around for this part of it, but the guys mentioned that they take a degree of confidence in the fact that they have played well against Louisville in the past.  As you've talked to them and motivate them and tried to get their minds right, is that something that you discuss or not something you touch?
COACH MENDENHALL: You know, it's not something that I've discussed, but it's actually in hearing them talk to each other, it's something they have discussed.  And that a lot of times is more powerful than even what a coach has to say.
And so I think there is some history there.  Obviously I was not here and been part of it, but to these players, that's real.  So I'll do everything I can to build the momentum off of that.  Really what they think is what matters most, is that's internal and that's what they believe.
Q. We talked on Monday about the distractions and the hype around Lamar, the distractions outside the program.  What have you seen so far from the day you've been with them in terms of how they are handling everything?  Were you happy with practice yesterday?
COACH MENDENHALL: I've just seen a workmanlike attitude.  There's other battles going on in our program, just working to improve an entire organization, an entire football program and helping each player get better and that work is so all inclusive right now, like it's not leaving much room for anything else, which is a blessing in this case, with the quality of opponent we have coming in and everything else.
So we're, again, there is just so much to do that these kids really -- they are really not coming up for air to the level I thought they might to look outside of what is going on in preparation for our game.
Q. I had the wrong coach last time.  How important have Kiser and Blanding been to your defense this year and what do they bring?
COACH MENDENHALL: Yeah, they are essential.  We are in the process of developing a program, transitioning in schemes, transitioning in culture, and transitioning in performance.  And to have players that not only are physically capable but are real students of the game and experienced, that's helped us just have an anchor within the program with so many things that are uncertain and have changed; those two continue to be consistent, and without that, it would be a completely different experience than it's already been.
So I rely on them both not only on how they play, but their leadership, as they are both amazing people, as well.
Q. What are you hoping that Kurt was able to take away from taking a seat and watching the last couple of series last week as you head into this game?
COACH MENDENHALL: I think just the best way to frame it is a reset.  The optimism, the confidence and the swagger that Kurt had when he started the season, the first time he started, and with basically his whole kind of football life in front of him, and that sense of just eagerness; I hope that just stepping back was able to reset that button and have him relaunch the second part of his season with a similar mind-set and optimism.
Q. Had you seen the optimism and confident waning over the last couple of games, or was it just last week in particular?
COACH MENDENHALL: And I wouldn't say that it's been waning.  What I would say, that once he took a really hard hit, got his shoulder banged up a little bit, and then that kind of led to an urgency or a little bit of eagerness to move and escape the pocket more frequently and earlier than what he was doing before.
And so I think the injury kind of started it and then I think just not quite as much patience, which maybe reflected a little less confidence, is I think what I saw.
And so I was hoping just the step back would now allow him to see, oh, it looks like this from here; I'm talking from the sideline, when it might have felt different on the field.  The early signs this week in practice have shown that that's helped, and so I'm pulling for him and hope that shows on game day.
Q. How are you going to control Jackson and the quarterback from Louisville?  Nobody stops that guy.  You put so many people up on the line and he still finds a way to hit a hole and make your day a miserable Saturday or Friday.
COACH MENDENHALL: I think he's made a lot of coaches and a lot of people that are trying to defend him miserable to this point.  What I'm not sure is quite talked about enough is the supporting cast, because really the more that you put up, the more players you put up to stop him, the ball can go over your head so fast with some of the players and the speed they have at receiver; that that makes it a really unique challenge, also.
So this isn't just a single player.  While he's very, very skilled and very, very good, this is a staff and a program that's recruited very, very well and has a supporting cast that complements the quarterback; where even if you chose to focus exclusively on the quarterback, you would do that at your own peril because of how fast the ball can go over your head and get in the end zone by the receivers.
You punch and counter-punch and you try to get the very best matchups you can, but if you're not execution sound and playing team football with great leverage, and great discipline, you're really not going to have a prayer.
And Duke, to this point, was overmatched but did the very best job not only schematically but execution-wise against them.  That gives us the best chance, a similar approach.
Q. If you can pull off the upset Saturday, what does that mean for you and your program going forward?
COACH MENDENHALL: It would be just a tangible mark and kind of a signature statement for this particular group of players; that because of all their hard work and because of how much they have been through in the past; that just their fruits of their labor that they could show I think would ignite them and revitalize them for years to come, not only in this program but as they move on in their lives.
It would be a great story for them to hold as a principle that could keep going on for forever.  You just keep battling and keep battling and eventually there are these moments that come through what you've earned.
Q. Do you expect to use two quarterbacks at all this week?
COACH MENDENHALL: Not planning on it.  Just planning on our quarterback -- if somebody gets hurt, we always have a backup ready but no, I'm not planning on a two-quarterback system.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT