DESERT CLASSIC
January 17, 2019
Trey Mullinax
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk about your round today.  7-under.  Pretty steady, seven birdies, no bogeys.  
TREY MULLINAX: Yeah, played really well.  I had pretty good control of the golf ball today, hit a lot of really good shots.  Me and my caddie did a great job of communicating today on if we were out of position where we needed to be and short game allowed me to go bogey-free because I missed a few shots and was able to kind of get some up-and-down and had a really good control of the ball most of the day.   
 Q.  Talk to me, obviously a little rough start to the new year, but is this a confidence booster?  Were you looking forward to coming out here and playing these courses, I know you've been out here before?  
TREY MULLINAX: Yeah, for sure.  And I had a lot going on beginning of the year, we just had our first child and been really enjoying being with at my home and enjoying being a new father and figuring all that out.  And so then been really working on my game.  I feel like my game's been there, I just haven't kind of put the scores together.  This week I felt pretty good, hit the ball really good today and we'll see how it goes.   
 Q.  How has being a dad impacted your ability to practice and get out there in the last few weeks?  
TREY MULLINAX: My time management has been a lot better.  I don't go out and just goof around anymore.  I like being at home with my family, they're at home now, so when I go get my work done I make sure I get what I need done that day done.  I don't go out and stay out all day, I want to get my work done, get it in for a couple hours and then get home.  So my practice has actually gotten a lot better.   
 Q.  Do you feel like it's changed your drive?  Obviously baby's a priority at this stage, do you feel like you still have the same drive to get out here and put the time in, put the work in?  
TREY MULLINAX: Yeah, for sure, I love the game.  I'm a competitor and I like to compete and I want to learn and I want to get better.  And so that's my job, that's how I put food on the table, so I got to be good at my job.  And I want to become a better player, I want to do a lot of things, so to do those things you got to work hard.  So I want to keep working hard and keep working on the right things and see where it goes.   
 Q.  Talk about this weather.  Obviously uncharacteristic for La Quinta.  Are you indifferent to this type of weather, does it make you feel comfortable?  
TREY MULLINAX: It was rainy and cold at home so it's actually better weather here than it is at home.  So everybody's got to play in it so you make due with what you can and try to hit good shots when you can.   
 Q.  What's your approach to this new season?  The start of 2019.  
TREY MULLINAX: Just be patient.  Just to not worry about too much.  I feel like I worried about too much in the past and just to be patient and know that I'm where the good lord wants me to be and just give everything I have.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT