U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
June 18, 2017
Trey Mullinax
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about 18, first of all.
TREY MULLINAX: Yes, sir, I mean double bogey on 18, two great shots, just tough pin and got too conservative on the first putt and left a hard second putt.
Hit the ball great all day.  Kept telling myself after I bogeyed 15, just keep grinding.  Like I said, I'm hitting it good.  Just tried to take it one shot at a time and keep my focus.
Q. It was the Cameron Champ show the first two rounds.  You moved through and here you are top-10 and that will get you back in the Open.  What does that mean to you?
TREY MULLINAX: That would be great.  To play in your national championship pretty much is awesome.  It's an honor to be here at Erin Hills.  To be top-10 in my first major would be pretty awesome.
Q. What were your expectations for the day?  Obviously to climb the leaderboard, but what did you see yourself being capable of doing this afternoon?
TREY MULLINAX: Again, I knew I was coming in hitting it well.  I played great the first three days.  I hit a lot of greens and a lot of fairways.  It's just another 18 holes.  It's a big stage, it's the U.S. Open, but it's another 18 holes, I'm going to play it the same way I did the first three days.  Just keep my composure and keep calm, you're going to miss a few putts, but that's just golf.
Q. And now that it's done --
TREY MULLINAX: Now that it's done I can sit back and reflect on it and wish I didn't have those three-putts and four-putts.  But it's all learning experience.  I mean it's my first year out here.  I'm a rookie, I'm still learning.  So it's an honor to be out here again, and to be able to play in the U.S. Open has been an absolute pleasure.
Q. This will be your first top-10 of the year?
TREY MULLINAX: It will be.  Again, I've been playing well throughout the year, I just hadn't had the weekends.  At the beginning of the year I played really well.  The last couple of months hadn't been great.  Had some stuff happen, just had to go back to the drawing board and go from there.  And the last two weeks, played well in Memphis, so had a good feelings going into this week after playing well in Memphis.  I didn't putt that well, but know that I need to go work on putting and get it going.
Q. Did you get hurt or --
TREY MULLINAX: No, sir, just wasn't playing well.  Just kind of was in a bad spot.  Down in the dumps a little bit.  Me and my dad and coach and agent and everybody got together on my team and surrounded me, and went back to the drawing boards and went back to what I do well and started trying to hit some shots and get a little more comfortable over the ball and the last two weeks have been great.
Q. Who is your coach?
TREY MULLINAX: Todd Anderson and Archie Burroughs.
Q. Is your dad here?
TREY MULLINAX: My dad is here, he was here on Father's Day.
Q. What is his name?
TREY MULLINAX: Chip Mullinax.
Q. Were you a teammate of Justin Thomas?
TREY MULLINAX: Yes, Justin was there for two years.  He's a drop out, so he was only there for two years.  I graduated, so I got my diploma.
Q. What did you major in?
TREY MULLINAX: I was communications and public relations.
Q. You're doing good far in communications?
TREY MULLINAX: Appreciate it.  I've had enough practice.
Q. I've got to think that you're just one of the kids that learned how to hit it far, not just far, but you had other skills?
TREY MULLINAX: Having length out here at Erin Hills is huge.  You're hitting 8-irons and everyone else is hitting 6- and 5-irons, that's a big deal.  I've been blessed to hit it long.  I don't know where I got my height from.  My dad is in the six-foot area.  I think I got my height from my mom's side of the family.  Her dad was a taller guy.
Q. What are you?
TREY MULLINAX: Yeah, 6'3", 6'4" on a good day, if I wake up and stretch right.  I say 6'4" on the profile, to make myself look taller.
Q. To even just qualify for this event --
TREY MULLINAX: Yeah, just qualifying to this event is huge.  You get to play in the U.S. Open, it's a huge deal.  It's what you dream about playing.  You dream about playing the majors when you're a kid playing golf.  And I got to play in my first one and it's been awesome.
Q. What did you think of Justin's 63 yesterday?
TREY MULLINAX: He's making it real hard on people to try and catch him.  I don't know how he's playing today.  I didn't watch any leaderboards.  He'll get it turned around.
Watching Justin do that, make history, doesn't surprise me at all.  If you've seen him at every level, he's been great at every level he's played at.  To have him as a friend and a guy I can talk to and a good buddy, I'm blessed to have Justin.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT