WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 15, 2011
Alexa Glatch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. IVANOVIC/A. Glatch
  6-0, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. You had a great weekend and run here qualifying. I know that meant a lot to you. Even though you lost the first round here, it has to be a big step forward you, this tournament.   
 ALEXA GLATCH: Yeah, definitely. I mean, I had some tough matches in the quallies and beat two very good players, so that gave me a lot of confidence. I think they're both inside the top 75. I played Mirza before twice and never beat her, so that was a good win for me.   
 The draw, the qually draw was so tough here. I was really happy to get through quallies. I drew a tough first round tonight. Ana played very well, and I don't think I played my best. It was a tough one out there tonight for sure.  
  
  Q. Are you getting more and more comfortable on the big stages, though?  
 ALEXA GLATCH: Yeah, it takes time. I haven't played girls in the top 20 that often, so it does take a little bit of time to get used to, and playing here at night and in front of big crowds and stuff.   
 Yeah, it's all learning experience. Hopefully I can build off this.  
  
  Q. Did you feel a little bit of a confidence burst at the beginning of the second set when you held serve?  
 ALEXA GLATCH: A little bit. I was struggling all night really. I wasn't serving that well. My timing was a little off. But she put a lot of pressure on me and hit some great forehands.  
 Obviously she's a great player, so you have to bring your A game when you play her.  
  
  Q. Were you able to talk to her? Did she say anything to you? Good job? Keep it up?  
 ALEXA GLATCH: Not too much. I just wished her luck and she said, Good match. But that's about it.  
  
  Q. I was talking to Irina Falconi, and she was talking about trying to make the American generation of girls closer and tighter knit. Are you part of that? Has that helped you at all?   
 ALEXA GLATCH: You know, honestly haven't seen a lot of Americans at the tournaments I've played at, so I haven't experienced that too much this year.   
 We definitely have some Americans that are doing very well, Irina being one of them. She's just had a great year. And Christina McHale, and CoCo had a good run there in San Diego.   
 So we're starting to play better and moving up the rankings, and it's great to see.  
  
  Q. Do you see it as like a team effort, that if one person does well it helps the others?  
 ALEXA GLATCH: Yeah, definitely we can motivate each other and try to push each other. Yeah, for sure.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT