FED CUP BY BNP PARIBAS WORLD GROUP FINAL
November 7, 2009
Alexa Glatch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







F. PENNETTA / A. Glatch
  6-3, 6-1

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. It seemed like you didn't even really get a chance to quite get into it. She was kind of fast. Did you feel that way, or did you feel otherwise?
 ALEXA GLATCH: At the beginning I thought I had a couple chances, but she played extremely well and didn't give me a lot of opportunities. 
 You know, there are two things that probably let me down. But, again, she didn't give me much to work with. I definitely could've served a little bit better. I think that let me down. But, you know, it was a tough match. Not much else to say, really. 

 Q. Sort of after you broke her in the first game of the second set, did it seem like she sort of hit another gear and all of a sudden got angry? Did you feel her come at you more?
 ALEXA GLATCH: Yeah, after I broke her, the next two games she really stepped it up. She hit a couple great shots. I think I got lucky on a bad bounce there at 15-Love serving. 
 But, I mean, she definitely stepped it up another gear and didn't make really any mistakes out there. 

 Q. What did you think of the court and the conditions? 
 ALEXA GLATCH: Court was good. There were a few bad bounces, but not too many. Actual clay was a little bit drier today. Wasn't wet or soggy, but conditions were maybe a little bit slower because of the conditions. It's pretty cold out there today. 
 Other than that, it was good. 

 Q. How about the atmosphere out there today? The fans? I mean, was it what you expected? A little better or worse? 
 ALEXA GLATCH: No, they were pretty loud out there. Last time in Czech, they were extremely loud, so I'm used to that. Stadium wasn't completely full, which maybe I was a little bit surprised at. 
 Other than that, it was a lot of fun to play out there. 

 Q. Obviously the first time you played her it was a big victory for you, one and one. What were the biggest differences between that match and today?
 ALEXA GLATCH: I think today she definitely played better than last time at the French Open. The conditions were also different. It was much quicker and hot that day and very dry, and I served extremely well, I remember.
 I was more aggressive in that match, and I probably should have tried to be in this match. I just wasn't able to do so. She definitely played better than she did last time. 

 Q. Fed Cup and Davis Cup captains talk about having to know the player, and does the player want to hear them, their voice or advice or whatever when they're down, or would they prefer not to. What kind of player are you? And if you took advice from Mary Joe, what was she telling you?
 ALEXA GLATCH: I think it's great to have Mary Joe on the bench. She's awesome. I wouldn't want any other captain out there with me. I really enjoy that aspect of it. You know, she's so positive, and she really sees the game well. 
 I think she really helped me. Even though I maybe didn't play my best today. Even in Czech, a lot of my success was because of her. So I think it's great that she's out there with me. She's helped this team so much. Look where she's gotten us. 

 Q. (Through translation.) Did something didn't work as you thought you were prepared to face this game? 
 ALEXA GLATCH: Well, like I said, my serve kind of let me down. My first serve percentage was pretty low. I didn't win a lot free points off my serve, so it made it very difficult to hold serve. I struggled in my service games. 

 Q. Apart from your serve, is there other shots that Flavia used that may have given you some difficulties? 
 ALEXA GLATCH: Yeah, I think she hit her backhands very well today and got the balls off the side of the court, which made that difficult for me to really step in. You know, I think she just mixed it up well. 
 She played very solid and didn't make hardly any unforced errors out there. Didn't give me a lot of opportunities to do much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT