US OPEN
September 11, 2005
Alexa Glatch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.


Q.  It was a tough ending but you had a great tournament.  Did the occasion perhaps get to you today?

ALEXA GLATCH:  A little bit, I think, you know, it was probably one of the biggest matches I've played so far.  You know, I came out a little bit nervous, but...I felt I was a little bit tired.  Had a long past three weeks, and my legs just felt a little heavy today. But she played very well.  I give her a lot of credit.  She really stepped up and played very well.  So she definitely deserved that win today.


Q.  Were you excited to win one round here in the main draw?

ALEXA GLATCH:  Oh, definitely.  I mean, I never thought I was going to come in here, and to even get a main draw wildcard was awesome for me.  To win a match was just amazing.  One of the greatest feelings I've had.


Q.  You were only 15 then, right?

ALEXA GLATCH:  Yeah (laughing).


Q.  When you look around the court, there's so many players so very tall right now, your opponent for now.  You look at a Nicole Vaidisova; Sharapova is 6'2".  Are you happy you're part of that breed, and what kind of advantage does your height give you?

ALEXA GLATCH:  Uhm, yeah, I mean, if you look at the top players right now, most of them are very tall.  I mean, I think it can be an advantage, but it also can be a disadvantage in some ways, you know.  Being tall, you can probably hit the ball harder, helps your serve a lot, and just gives you a bigger presence. But, you know, it's not always as easy to move around the court, as quickly, or bending for low balls. So I think it works both ways.


Q.  How tall are your parents?

ALEXA GLATCH:  They're both 5'11".


Q.  And you are 5'11" right now?

ALEXA GLATCH:  Uhm, yeah, I think so.  I'm not sure.


Q.  What do the doctors say you'll be, how tall?

ALEXA GLATCH:  I don't know.


Q.  Has Lindsay been a role model for you in any way?  I don't know if you guys have talked.

ALEXA GLATCH:  Yeah, I love watching her play.  She's one of the greatest players to play.  I've met her a few times.


Q.  She knows Katie, too?

ALEXA GLATCH:  Yeah, that's how I met her.


Q.  Right.

ALEXA GLATCH:  But she's been really nice to me.  Maybe in the future we'll get to hit a little bit or something.


Q.  What has she told you, any good advice?

ALEXA GLATCH:  No, I haven't really gotten to talk to her that much, so...


Q.  You usually don't face serves of the caliber that you faced today; is that right?  I mean, could you talk a little bit about Azarenka's serve being a weapon.  Did you feel that she matched you in that category?

ALEXA GLATCH:  Yeah, I mean, she served very well today.  I didn't know she had that big of a serve, actually.  Her first serve percentage was very high today.  She didn't miss very many first serves, so she didn't give me really any looks at her second serves, only a few times. So, I mean, she served very well today.


Q.  Would you say that that's something that she's improved since you played her last?  I know that seems like ancient history, being a year ago, but could you see an improvement in her game as well?

ALEXA GLATCH:  Yeah, I think so.  I really don't remember when I played her last at all, really. But, yeah, I mean, she's definitely improved a lot.  I haven't seen her play in a little while, and she's playing really well right now so...


Q.  What's on the calendar for the rest of the year for you?

ALEXA GLATCH:  This fall I'm going to play a few pro circuit events.  I go back home for two weeks, and then I'm playing a pro circuit event, 50 K, I think, in Ashland, Kentucky. Then a few more after that.  I just have to pick and choose which ones I want to play.


Q.  How about junior competition?

ALEXA GLATCH:  I'm not sure.  I'm not sure what my next junior event will be.


Q.  Do you have a goal of like a number?  I remember Andy Murray last year, Pat Etcheberry said he was going to be Top 200.  Then when he came back he was going to be Top 100.  Have you set goals like that for yourself on the women's tour?

ALEXA GLATCH:  I used to but I don't as much anymore.  I don't set too many goals for myself because sometimes when I reach them -- when I don't reach them, I kind of get a little bit disappointed and feel like a failure almost. So, no, I don't set too many goals, but I just want to keep improving my game and just keep moving up the rankings and just do the best that I possibly can.


Q.  When you say the rankings, you mean WTA rankings or junior rankings?

ALEXA GLATCH:  WTA rankings.


Q.  I don't think you worry about junior rankings anymore.

ALEXA GLATCH:  Not too much anymore, no.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT