US OPEN
September 9, 2005
Alexa Glatch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.


Q.  My first question is, what did you think when you both showed up wearing the same outfits? 

ALEXA GLATCH:  (Laughing).  Yeah, I knew we were both sponsored by Nike, so there was a chance of that happening. 

Q.  First set you just whizzed right through it. 

ALEXA GLATCH:  Yeah, I came out ready to play, and serving very well the first set.  Just played flawlessly, really.  She made a few unforced errors, though.  She was, after two or three balls, just kind of losing it off her racquet.  But I played very well the first set.  Yeah, I played a great match today. 

Q.  You seemed to me that you outclassed her a little bit.  Do you think the seeding was correct today in terms of you being 10th seed? 

ALEXA GLATCH:  Well, I mean, she's ranked -- she's ranked 3 or 4, I think.  So, I mean, she ought to be seeded low, so...

Q.  But I mean bearing in mind the experience you've had with the WTA. 

ALEXA GLATCH:  Uhm, I don't know.  I don't know how the seeds really work, so I can't say. 

Q.  You had a good run last year.  How has that helped you so far in this tournament? 

ALEXA GLATCH:  Last year here at the Open? 

Q.  Yes. 

ALEXA GLATCH:  Last year I lost second round.  Lost to a very good player.  Actually had to go indoors because of the rain, so that was a little bit of bad luck.  But, I mean, I think I'm playing some of the best tennis I ever have right now.  I'm just really confident and feeling good about everything right now. 

Q.  All the Grand Slam experience you've had this year, has that helped you?

ALEXA GLATCH:  Yeah, I think it's definitely helped me.  I've played -- this is the first year I've played all the Grand Slams and I've gained a lot of experience from each one.  I know what to expect in these kind of situations now, and I think I'm really using that to my advantage.

Q.  What do you have to expect? 

ALEXA GLATCH:  Excuse me? 

Q.  What do you have to expect at this level, just tougher matches? 

ALEXA GLATCH:  Yeah, I mean, just walking out on the court, you've got to be able to play every match right from the beginning because these girls are tough and they're going to come out here and they're going to give you everything they've got.  So when you go out there, you've just got to be ready, you've got to be ready for anything.

Q.  How much are main draw matches enabling you to breeze through these matches, easier and quicker because of the experience you've had in the main draws?

ALEXA GLATCH:  Yeah, I mean, I gained a lot of confidence from that.  I mean, winning a match was, I mean, just unbelievable for me.  I'm just -- I was on Cloud 9 then, you know.  I'm just really confident right now and playing well.

Q.  What about the doubles, is that helping you or hurting you?  How do you feel about playing doubles and being the No. 2 seeds and being in the finals? 

ALEXA GLATCH:  Yeah, I mean, I think that's awesome.  I'm so excited.  I mean, Vani (Vania King) and I have a great time out there.  I love to play doubles now.  You know, I was never a great doubles player before I started playing with Vani really.  She's taught me a lot, actually.  So I think I've improved a lot over the past six months in my doubles, and it's showing. 

Q.  Does she still smack your right hand after every good point? 

ALEXA GLATCH:  (Smiling).  Yeah.  I let her take her frustrations out on me, so (laughing)...

Q.  Going back to the singles, had you ever played Dominika before? 

ALEXA GLATCH:  I never played her before, no.  I hadn't really ever seen her play either.  I asked around a little bit and found out what she liked and what she didn't like and, you know... But I really, going out there, had never seen her play.  I didn't know what to expect.

Q.  What about Hancock, do you know anything about her?  She hasn't won yet, that I know of. 

ALEXA GLATCH:  No, I've never seen her play.  Actually, I don't even know what she looks like. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT