US OPEN
August 30, 2005
Alexa Glatch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Alexa.  
 
 
Q.  What was it that persuaded you to turn pro? 
 
ALEXA GLATCH:  It was a decision that I was thinking about for a while and I just felt it was the right time.  Tennis is what I want to do.  I think it was the right decision.  
 
Q.  Did you take a family vote? 
 
ALEXA GLATCH:  Yeah, my parents are behind me all the way.  Whatever I want to do, they support me a hundred percent.  That wasn't an issue at all.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about what today's victory means to you? 
 
ALEXA GLATCH:  Oh, I mean, I don't even believe it.  I'm so excited right now.  I'm just so happy.  Didn't expect to come here and even win a match.  I mean, I just went out there and swung away.  I guess I got the victory.  
 
Q.  Is everything just coming together the last week or so?  You had a good run there in Forest Hills, too. 
 
ALEXA GLATCH:  Yeah, I played very well at Forest Hills.  It's been a great two weeks so far.  I think Forest Hills helped me a lot in this match.  Coming in here, I had a lot of confidence from doing well there.  I knew I can compete with these girls.  I think that's one of the reasons why I was able to pull out the match today.  
 
Q.  On court, what is working with your tennis right now that maybe wasn't working as well a couple months ago? 
 
ALEXA GLATCH:  I think everything's just come together a little bit.  I think I'm a little bit stronger than I was before.  I don't know exactly what it is, but I'm playing better tennis now.  
 
Q.  Are you still growing?  Do you feel like you're growing into your body? 
 
ALEXA GLATCH:  I don't know.  I mean, I don't know if I'm still growing or not.  I mean, I've always been pretty tall for my age.  I'm used to it.  
 
Q.  You haven't noticed any recent growth spurt? 
 
ALEXA GLATCH:  Not really, no.  
 
Q.  Are your parents both very tall?
 
ALEXA GLATCH:  They're both about 5'11".  
 
Q.  Where does all your height come from?
 
ALEXA GLATCH:  My mom's side of the family is very tall.  She has brothers and sisters that are 6'8", 6'4", so...  
 
Q.  When you lost the Super Nationals final, did you take positives out of that?  Was that something you felt like you should have won?  How did you recover from that mentally? 
 
ALEXA GLATCH:  I always try to take away the positives from tournaments, not the negatives.  It was a tough match in the final, a long match.  I had a lot of chances.  I wasn't too disappointed.  I didn't get blown out.  I just walked away from that tournament with my head held high.  
 
Q.  You're from down there in Lindsay Davenport territory.  Have you had an opportunity to hit with her at all?
 
ALEXA GLATCH:  I've never hit with her.  
 
Q.  How well do you know Lindsay?
 
ALEXA GLATCH:  I know her a little bit.  My coach knows her very well.  I've seen her a few times.  I've met her.  She seems very nice.  Maybe in the future I'll get to hit with her.  
 
Q.  Does he travel with you? 
 
ALEXA GLATCH:  No, he won't travel with me.  He's got a family.  He's pretty settled in.  
 
Q.  Do you have another coach you can work with?
 
ALEXA GLATCH:  Well, I travel with Katie Schlukebir.  She's been working with me for about a year and a half.  It's been going really well. 
 
Q.  Where did you find her?  Where is she from?
 
ALEXA GLATCH:  She used to work for the USTA.  I met her through the USTA.  
 
Q.  After you were a finalist in the girls 18s, what kind of prize did you get, award?  Anything?
 
ALEXA GLATCH:  I got a silver ball. 
 
Q.  Now you're qualified to win at least $25,000 in this event as a second-round player.  Looks like you're moving up pretty good. 
 
ALEXA GLATCH:  Yeah. 
 
Q.  What are you going to buy with that money? 
 
ALEXA GLATCH:  I don't know.  I think I'll spend it on travels.  
 
Q.  Is there one particular match last week in Forest Hills that sort of made you believe that you were there, particular game?
 
ALEXA GLATCH:  Probably after the first round, beating the No. 1 seed, Morigami in three sets was huge for me.  Going out there, I thought I was going to get blown out, to be honest with you.  I never played anyone Top 50 before.  I mean, after that, I kind of realized that I can hit with these girls and I can compete with them.  
 
Q.  Did you play really well in that match?
 
ALEXA GLATCH:  I didn't play my best actually, but I didn't have to.  
 
Q.  Did you have chances against Mirza?  Did you feel like you were really in that match?
 
ALEXA GLATCH:  Yeah, I did.  I actually had a lot of chances.  It was just one break each set.  I was never able to break her.  Many times I was up 30-15, 30-Love on her serve.  Just never was able to quite get the games that I needed to get.  
 
Q.  Is she the hardest hitter you've ever played?
 
ALEXA GLATCH:  Yeah, definitely the hardest hitter I've ever played. 
 
Q.  How was that just contending with that kind of power, knowing other girls out on the tour hit as hard as she does?
 
ALEXA GLATCH:  Yeah, after the first game I was a little bit surprised at how hard she did hit the ball.  
 
Q.  Could you speak about where you play in Southern California?
 
ALEXA GLATCH:  In Newport Beach, I work with Syd Ball.  I usually hit at the Corona Del Mar High School and the Costa Mesa Tennis Center.  
 
Q.  Are you a good friend of Vania King?
 
ALEXA GLATCH:  Yes. 
 
Q.  When you had to play her a few weeks ago, didn't come out the way you wanted it, was it difficult to play her?
 
ALEXA GLATCH:  No.  I mean, on the court it's competition.  We forget about that.  You just go out and play.  Off the court we're friends again after the match.  It's not too hard for me.  
 
Q.  Before this tournament, did you have some conversations with Vania about playing in the US Open, how you expected to do, whether you were nervous?
 
ALEXA GLATCH:  I mean, when I first came here, I saw her.  She had actually qualified.  We were just joking around about that.  I was telling her congratulations, it's great.  We were both just really excited to be here in the main draw of the US Open.  It's pretty special.  
 
Q.  How are you doing your schooling now? 
 
ALEXA GLATCH:  I'm home-schooled through a school in Ojai, California, called Laurel Springs.  I just send in my work through the mail.  
 
Q.  Did you read the Sports Illustrated piece during Wimbledon that had you in there as maybe one of the younger players to watch?
 
ALEXA GLATCH:  No, I didn't.  
 
Q.  You've heard the chatter about yourself as being one of the younger players who could have an impact.  How do you deal with that?
 
ALEXA GLATCH:  I don't worry about it at all.  I mean, I don't focus on that.  I just go out on court and do my business, try not to read too many of those articles, just stay focused on what I want to do and what I want to accomplish, not worry about what everyone is saying.  
 
Q.  But within yourself, is top 10 or being a consistent elite player something you want to accomplish?
 
ALEXA GLATCH:  Yeah, definitely.  I mean, that's my goal.  I want to be No. 1 in the world someday.  I have high hopes.  
 
Q.  Any encounters with Taylor or Jill Craybas?
 
ALEXA GLATCH:  I actually played Jill Craybas in Indian Wells.  I know her a little bit.  I've known Taylor since I was young because we practice at the same club.  
 
Q.  Just considering beating Morigami last week, this win, what are your expectations now for this tournament? 
 
ALEXA GLATCH:  Coming in here, I had no expectations.  I mean, 15 years old.  Got a wildcard into the main draw of the US Open, which is unbelievable.  I was just so excited to even be playing out there today, say I'm in the main draw.  I'm just really excited, don't want to put too much pressure on myself.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT