AMERICAN CENTURY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 14, 2017
Aaron Rodgers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A really good round for you today. What was working well for you?  
AARON RODGERS: I putted terribly actually.  I had five 3-putts and still shot 74, which means I was actually hitting the ball pretty good. I came out and 3-putted two of the first three, and then I hit over the green on four and chipped in for eagle, so that kind of got my round going from there.  It was a good round for me.  This is really uncharacteristic.   
 Q.  You made about a 20-foot birdie putt on 17. That had to feel good, it being kind of the signature hole here and with so many fans there.  
AARON RODGERS: Seventeen to me is what this tournament is all about.  The fans are incredible. I was talking to Gary Quinn and Jon Miller, who have been incredible helping this tournament get to where it is now. We're just baffled by -- I've been here 13 years now -- just how much it has grown.  The fan support is incredible. And I look forward -- I think about 17 in the offseason.  I can't wait to get there, especially on Saturday. It's absolutely nutty on Saturday. But today there was a ton of people out there.  It's amazing.   
 Q.  You said you didn't putt real well, but you're in the top five. Does that bode well for the weekend?  
AARON RODGERS: Putting is usually about all I have going for me in my game.  I'm usually a little wayward.  But today I hit the driver straighter than usual and it left me with a lot of wedges into the greens. And I'm decent with a wedge in my hands.  So if I can make a few putts, who knows?  I'm not -- I don't go into this tournament thinking I can even compete.  If I can get top 20, that's kind of my goal and I'm sitting here in fourth. So, I'm going to get some good sleep tonight and have some fun and hopefully come back out tomorrow and play a little better.   
 Q.  You don't think you can win this thing?  
AARON RODGERS: I don't.  It would be the greatest underdog story ever.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT