NEXT GEN ATP FINALS
November 8, 2018
Jaume Munar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. MUNAR/F. Tiafoe
4-1, 4-3, 4-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.
Q. So good to see you today.  Good victory.  How did you prepare for the match after the defeats you had had?
JAUME MUNAR: Well, as every day, I mean, it was another match for me.  I knew I had to play a little bit better tennis.
But we did the same.  Morning gym and then we took breakfast, just warm up.  Long warmup today with a little bit of practice the things we didn't do well yesterday.
And nothing.  Just be motivated, be fighter, and this is what I did finally today.
Q. And psychologically how do you overcome yesterday, not think about tomorrow and just stay here today?
JAUME MUNAR: Not really.  I'm thinking about tomorrow.  I mean, I did a lot of bad things tennistically yesterday.  So this was important match yesterday to do what I did today.  So I don't know.  Step by step, different matches.  This is a group, not an event.
Just run out of problems in the mind and feeling comfortable today.
Q. And did you listen to any music last night like you told me you were going to.
JAUME MUNAR: I did.  I did.  But I'm doing it every night so nothing different.
Q. How do you feel knowing that now, if Stefanos wins, you get to play another day?
JAUME MUNAR: I did what I had to do, and it's not in my hands anymore.  Maybe we can buy a Greek flag or whatever for support (smiling).
But not in my hands anymore.  At least I felt like I was a good tennis player out there today.  So this is important for me.  At least I will live with that sensation.
Q. And I think you have used the headset pretty much after every set.
JAUME MUNAR: Sorry?
Q. The headset.  I think you've used it after pretty much every set this week.  How much have you enjoyed that, being able to talk to your coach?
JAUME MUNAR: I'm a fan of coaching.  I mean, people working with you, traveling you with you all over the world every week, so why then they cannot help us?
I really like it a lot.  I think it can be helpful in key moments.  And as you have seen this week, it's working for me.
Q. How do you keep your confidence so high?  Because when you're out on the court, you seem to be really involved in the game.  You seem to have your confidence fully there.
JAUME MUNAR: I don't know.  I mean, I take the confidence when I put so many hours on the court practicing.  It is not about yesterday or a week ago.  We have been working hard since the preseason this year.
And why not to be confident if it's been a good year for me?  And I felt really comfortable at least the most part of the season.  I'm just feeling like this, and usually it's with my character, too.
Q. I'm sure you've seen the social posts and all the pictures from back home at the academy, everyone watching.  How cool is it to see all the kids there watching you?
JAUME MUNAR: It's emotional.  I mean, people who is watching you doing something, they trying to learn and to be that person who they watch.  It's special.  I mean, the kids you are seeing in the pictures, I'm meeting them every day there in the academy when I practice.  So it's really special.
I don't know.  I'm just trying to be someone that they can look.  I'm just trying to do the things well to be an example.
But the most example there in the academy is Rafa.  So I'm looking higher, and I'm looking to Rafa, and they will also do this.
Q. Have you heard from Rafa at all this week since you started playing?
JAUME MUNAR: Yeah.  I mean, I've been chatting with him.  I don't know.  Difficult moments for him for sure.  But I know he can just come back stronger as he did a lot of times already.
And Rafa is a fighter.  So I know I am pretty sure that he will be able to come back to the highest in the world.
Q. Are you a Real Madrid supporter like Rafa?
JAUME MUNAR: No.  I'm Barcelona supporter since I was young.
Q. Big problem.
JAUME MUNAR: It's not.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT