STANFORD UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 28, 2015
Devon Cajuste
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Stanford - 38, Notre Dame - 36
Q. Senior Day, you guys have the ball, 25 seconds left.  You need to get into field goal range.  Take me through that 27-yard gain?
DEVON CAJUSTE: Zero doubt in my mind that coach was going to make the great call.  When I heard it was just an alley, I knew I had a bender route and, I mean, I don't know, I just made the play, just like practice.  So it was just extremely exciting, just the fact that it happened.  I don't know.  I'm still smiling from it.
Q. Was that the best moment in your Stanford career, that play?
DEVON CAJUSTE: For me, yeah.  For me, yeah.  The second would be the Rose Bowl.  But for me, personally, yes.
Q. And for Kevin, obviously, with his dad being a Notre Dame grad and with all the build-up and the story behind that last Senior Day drive, what was his reaction, what did you tell him after the win was sealed?
DEVON CAJUSTE: I don't even think I got to talk to him.  Oh, wait, yeah, sorry, I'm blanking out, I did.  It was kind of just like, great job.  And then just next play.  Like we had to finish the game.  We just had to get to the next play and then we celebrated on the end.
Q. What was that final walk for you like?
DEVON CAJUSTE: Oh, man, that was -- I was sad at first but I was happy all at the same time.  I remember last year doing my last walk and it was kind of very similar, but this time it was like this is it, the end.  There's no more.  But I was just very, very happy.  All the support.  My family came out from New York so it meant a lot.
Q. Coach talked about you finally coming to him and saying, I feel faster, I feel a hundred percent.  What's that progression been like over the season?
DEVON CAJUSTE: It's been slow and long, but it's been steady.  And today, I would say I played my best game all season and I kind of had the reverse factor of what most people have.  You sort start out at a hundred and you slowly wean down.  I didn't start out a hundred, but I ended a hundred, so.
Q. What do you think is your best memorable moment as a Stanford player?
DEVON CAJUSTE: Definitely be the 2013 Rose Bowl when we won.
Q. And this is right up there?
DEVON CAJUSTE: This is second, right there.  This is -- they're almost like neck and neck, but, yeah.
Q. Hoge's last throw in Stanford Stadium, your last catch there --
DEVON CAJUSTE: I didn't even think about that.  That's really cool.  I didn't even think about that.
Q. Pretty poignant, isn't it?
DEVON CAJUSTE: Wow, that's pretty surreal.  That's even more surreal than I thought it would be.  No, I feel like the whole scene was very surreal to begin with.  The fact that we're like all right Notre Dame is going to score -- Conrad called this too before it happened.  He's like, so Notre Dame is going to score and I'm going to go down and kick the game-winning field goal and it happened just like that.  So, it was fascinating, it really was.  But I never thought about everything was the last.  That was awesome.  It's awesome.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT