AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 26, 2019
Gustavo Fernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. FERNANDEZ/S. Olsson   
7-5, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Feel good to be reunited with that trophy after a couple years?  
GUSTAVO FERNANDEZ: Yeah, it's very, very good.  It was really, really tough.  I lost four Grand Slam champion.  It was hard moments for me.  I have to work a lot, in a lot of matters, both technically and mentally.  So it's really, really good to be back winning a Grand Slam.   
 Q.  Celebration showed what it meant to you.  Can you compare from 2017 to 2019 the differences.  
GUSTAVO FERNANDEZ: I think I enjoyed more this one.  Every Grand Slam win, it's special.  But this one, it was really tough.  I mean, the last couple of day after I get to the final, I've worked a lot mentally to get that win, to be ready for it.  I mean, I've been working really hard.  But we all do outside the courts, in tennis, training a lot.   
But mentally you have to do a lot, a big effort for because I really want these kind of things, and that gets you emotional.  But when you are in the court, you don't need to get emotional, you need to get smart.  I think I did a good job.   
 Q.  This head-to-head you have with Stefan is incredible:  10 matches each.  Neither one of you has won more than two matches in a row against each other.  What over the years has kept you so tight?  Are you pushing each other so hard?  
GUSTAVO FERNANDEZ: I guess.  I guess.  I think everyone in the last three, four years, our matches are even tougher each time.  That's good.  I mean, I love to compete.  I love the competition.  When you get the players that like to play against you and make you hard, make you push harder, that's something great.   
I think we both have that, and we enjoy doing it.   
 Q.  Winning a title like this gives you a launch for the season ahead.  
GUSTAVO FERNANDEZ: Yeah, yeah, for sure.  It's good to start winning.  It's good.  But I think it means more than that.  I think I'm doing a good job.  Is good to finally, I mean, achieve the thing because I've been close in the last year, last couple of years.  In the last two months, in the Master, I did a really good job, I play good, and I didn't achieve it.  In the last two tournaments, I lost two finals.  I think I was ready for it.   
But it's good.  I mean, I've learned from those losses.  I'm happy for it.   
 Q.  When you talk about what you've done mentally over the past year or so to improve, is there anything specific?  Is it a change of mindset?  
GUSTAVO FERNANDEZ: Actually, yes.  I have a mental coach.  He work on my focusness.  He try to take the emotions off when I don't need them, and on when I do need them.   
I work a lot in that matter because after I get to the first in the world, in 2017, a lot of things happened in myself, and I have to grow in a lot of matters mentally.  I start to work with him.  He did a great job.  I think it works.  It pays off.   
 Q.  What is his name?  
GUSTAVO FERNANDEZ: Santiago Sanchez.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT