CHICAGO FIRE MEDIA CONFERENCE
July 23, 2020
Jonathan Bornstei
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Vancouver 2, Chicago 0
 Q. What do you learn from this experience, the disappointment from the last two matches, and how do you prepare not knowing when you're next game is going to be?  What is that feeling like?
 JONATHAN BORNSTEIN:   Well, I think you know what we learn is that we need to be tuned in at all moments.  Games are going to be tough in this league.  We are going to have to overcome circumstances.  I think today's game is indicative of that where the first 60 minutes before the -- before the weather came in, I felt like we were controlling the game and we were having a lot of chances, limiting their amounts of chances.  And then, you know, we go in for that pause, the weather comes through, we have to wait an hour pretty much to get back on the field, and we just weren't ready; at the beginning, we gave up two goals.
 In all types of this, the tournament, the whole year, we have had to overcome obstacles, but I think at all times you have to be ready.  That's kind of what we learn from the whole situation.
 Secondly, your second question, I think obviously we don't know what's going to be happening next.  So we're going to have to kind of wait around for a few days to kind of figure out what is going to be with the league in terms of our training.  But we'll keep ourselves prepared in whatever we way have to.  We went through three and a half months where we -- as a team, and I think all our guys did a great job during that time, and so we'll see what is ahead of us.  It's really hard to say without actually knowing.
 Q. Obviously that was a tough loss.  What specifically changed do you think after the weather delay?  Was there anything in particular?
 JONATHAN BORNSTEIN:   It's not the same because I was sat down right before.  I wasn't on the field at that time.  Just looking at it from afar, I just thought we didn't -- we didn't have the energy right at the beginning of the restart, and they had a little bit more possession, just a few more chances than us during that time.
 I think the first shot on goal was a goal and second time on goal was another goal -- mentally we just needed to be stronger I think after the restart.  I can't tell you what the answer was exactly, but obviously we gave up two goals in that time, so something was wrong.
 Q. I know you said you were off the field, but did you get a good look at C.J.'s disallowed goal and do you think it should have stood or it was the right call?
 JONATHAN BORNSTEIN:   Yeah, I just checked out the highlights after the game, and from all the highlights that they have posted and the goal line c A.M., it's hard for me to say because obviously it has to be clear and obvious, and from my views that I've seen, it not clear and obvious whether it was a hand ball or not.
 I mean, you have three players right now battle, two of theirs and C.J. and they kind of sandwiched C.J. where he's like bringing his arms up because of them, and it looks like it could have hit anybody's hand in that situation.  For me it's not clear and obvious, but obviously the referee thought differently, disallows the goal.  You know, it is what it is.  In the moment, you know, you're upset, but there's nothing we can do now.  I just hope that they can clearly set the rules of what can be taken away with VR tech and what can happen.  That's my thought on that.
 Q. What was the mood in the locker room during the break?  What was being said?  Was anybody stepping up and trying to keep the mood high?  What was the mood for an hour and a half where you have to sit there and weight?
 JONATHAN BORNSTEIN:   You're trying to stay as concentrated as possible.  Guys talking about -- asking how much longer it was going to be until we get on the field.  I think that doubt was kind of always on everybody's mind.  But the moment we knew we were going to be heading onto the field, everyone kind of started focusing on getting ready for the game.  Obviously our captain, Calvo, was using motivational words to get everyone ready; C.J.; Robert.  They started to do the mental side of it probably 20 minutes before they knew they were getting on, and then a little bit before warm up, they were actually doing some runs outside and getting physically ready to go before they actually stepped onto the field to do the warm up.
 Stuck in that situation, I think you go from running at full speed 60 minutes to having to go inside of a little bungalow and wait around, not knowing when you were going to be able to go out again, but both teams had to do that.  You know, obviously like I said before, I just don't think we came with enough energy after the restart as we should have done.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT