NCAA MEN'S 1ST ROUND: DAYTON
March 20, 2013
C.J. Garner
Jamal Olasewere
Jack Perri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   We're joined by Coach Jack Perri as well as student‑athletes Jamal Olasewere and C.J. Garner. 
COACH PERRI:   At the beginning of the game, I was a little concerned with them going small.   I didn't like our matchups to start the game because Goins couldn't play.   I actually thought that would have helped us if he did play. 
So we started out, we struggled because with their switching.   It took us a while to get going really through most of the half. 
We kept our poise pretty well, got back in the game, and we had two big things that happened.   C.J. over here, he hurts his ankle, which, again, he wasn't the same after that, sprained it pretty bad.   And Jamal picks up his third foul.   So, again, he couldn't really be himself and play with the same aggressiveness he's used to playing. 
I think those two things hurt us in the second half, especially we were up 8 on the glass at halftime.   They ended up out rebounding us, and they bothered our shots around the rim. 
Plain and simple, they really bothered our shots.   Ten blocked shots; that was something we weren't necessarily thinking was going to happen. 
Their guards did a great job.   They have great length.   So not the outcome we're looking for. 
THE MODERATOR:   Open the floor for questions for our student‑athletes.

Q.   Jamal, how much did Andre Nation kind of limit you tonight in your offensive production? 
JAMAL OLASEWERE:   Like he said, he had five blocks as a guard.   I think around the rim, he was‑‑ it made me struggle trying to finish my layups and stuff.

Q.   For Jamal and C.J., for both of you guys, last couple of years you faced a really high seed.   Those are tough matchups.   There's a little more optimism going into this game.   How disappointing is it this is the outcome especially since you guys don't get another chance? 
JAMAL OLASEWERE:   It sucks.   What can we do?   I felt we fought hard.   Tonight they were the better team, I guess.

Q.   You two played together four years of college, is that right? 
JAMAL OLASEWERE:   Yes.

Q.   And how many in high school, two, three? 
JAMAL OLASEWERE:   We were together four years, but we played three years together.

Q.   And how many in high school together? 
JAMAL OLASEWERE:   Two.

Q.   And you won three conference championships in college and two state titles together in high school, is that right? 
JAMAL OLASEWERE:   One.

Q.   Talk a little bit about this being the last game that you two will ever play together and what you feel like you've accomplished. 
JAMAL OLASEWERE:   I mean, the kid is an amazing basketball player.   He has a big heart.   To be led by somebody like that for so long, to move on, it hurts, and it definitely‑‑ I'm thankful for every year I've had with the kid because he's showed me so much.   He's always been a big brother to me on and off the court. 
You can tell in the game I tried to mold my game after him.   The kid is just electrifying, and I'm thankful for every second I've had with him. 
C.J. GARNER:   I have a lot of respect for Jamal.   I've seen him work hard over the years to become the great player he is now. 
The sky's the limit for him.   We pushed each other to get to the level we're at right now, which is to get back to the tournament, and to be here three times‑‑ it sucks that we're not going to be able to play together anymore, but I think we've taught each other a lot, and we've both grown from it. 
So I wish him the best.   It's just been great.

Q.   I'm just wondering how you'll handle this.   Will you watch James Madison play against IU, or will you prefer to really not see it because it will be a little bit painful? 
C.J. GARNER:   If I'm around and I'm near a TV, I'll definitely watch the game.   I don't think it will be painful.   I know a couple players on Indiana, so I'll probably root for them.   Other than that, I won't have any hard feelings about that, James Madison beating us.

Q.   C.J., when exactly did you sprain your ankle, and how much did that limit you? 
C.J. GARNER:   I probably sprained my ankle after I got my first basket.   I didn't know if I was going to be able to go back out there, but of course I did.   I got it wrapped up. 
It was bothering me.   I couldn't plant my foot the same way as I would normally, and I wasn't able to be as explosive.   It's no excuse, but it is what it is.   Injuries happen. 
THE MODERATOR:   Jamal and C.J., thank you for your time.   Congratulations on your season. 
We'll open the floor for questions for Coach Perri.

Q.   Can you put the season in perspective.   You've been through a lot.   There's been a lot of drama, but you ended up winning a third straight conference championship and getting to play in the tournament. 
COACH PERRI:   Yeah, tough to talk about that right at this minute, but in hindsight looking back, what an unbelievable accomplishment, unbelievable accomplishment.   All the things that happened, all the adversity that happened throughout the year, September. 
And then in December when you lose Julian Boyd, who would have thought‑‑ nobody would have thought we'd have gotten to this point.   Nobody talked about it.   Nobody talked about us. 
For what these two guys that were sitting next to me and the rest of the guys in that locker room, what they did shows true character.   The intestinal fortitude that they showed through January, February, and into March was just awesome.   I was so proud of all of them, and I certainly love them all.   They're all going to be very successful because of it.

Q.   Jack, can you just talk a little bit about what C.J. and Jamal in particular meant to this program? 
COACH PERRI:   It's depressing thinking about the fact I'm not going to be able to coach them again.   They're both tremendous kids from tremendous families.   They had the one hiccup and made a mistake in September, but I think they really grew from that mistake. 
As far as players, they just‑‑ they are the ultimate competitors, ultimate competitors.   When the stage was the brightest, you could count on them to give everything they had, and nine times out of ten, they were going to get you through it. 
They're special kids.   They're special players.   And they will be remembered forever in our program.   They're as good as they get.

Q.   Just the follow-up.   Losing two guys like that, and I know you're losing four starters, how do you‑‑ you've had great success these last three years with three NEC championships in a row.   Is there any concern about being able to maintain that once those guys are gone? 
COACH PERRI:   Yeah, it's going to be difficult.   Guys are going to have to step into new roles.   Hopefully, we get Julian Boyd back for a sixth year.   That would help.   We still have one of the best point guards in the country. 
We'll keep recruiting and hopefully get good players, and hopefully we'll continue with the success we've had.   I think we've made unbelievable progress the last few years, and hopefully we can continue that. 
THE MODERATOR:   Coach, thanks for your time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT