NBA DRAFT
June 26, 2008
O.J. Mayo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  (No. 3 Overall Selection Minnesota Timberwolves)

 Q. O.J., obviously going from 2 to 3, how disappointing to go from palm trees to Snow storms?
 O.J. MAYO: I'm not disappointed at all. At the end of the day, I'm just happy to be an NBA basketball player. It's definitely a dream come true and just happy to be here in these shoes. 

 Q. With the Timberwolves backcourt already having McCants and Randy Foye how do you see yourself fitting in with those guys? 
 O.J. MAYO: I don't know how I can't. They are obviously great players and NBA ballplayers, and definitely committed to the game. So I just want to come in and learn from those guys and just try to fit in where I can and show that I'm committed to the game and to the organization and just ready to go. 

 Q. How much did you get caught up in the talk about Miami and also being in the workout; did you get caught up in that and what was last night and today like with that?
 O.J. MAYO: You know, you really can't get caught up into this too much. There's going to be a lot of speculation and a lot of things floating around in the air. Obviously Mike and Derrick are two fantastic players and they did very well this year. 
 I'm just happy for the opportunity to go to camp before I came to New York and glad to see that I did have a chance, but they are great players and I'm happy to be a part of the Minnesota Timberwolves. 

 Q. Readers on my blog today said that if you go to Minnesota, they would call you the Mayo Clinic; what do you think about that? 
 O.J. MAYO: Yeah, my mother was telling me about that. I guess it's a pretty big-time clinic in the Minnesota area. So, hey, got to roll with it. (Laughter).

 Q. Actually the Mayo Clinic is in Rochester and it's really a wonderful facility. You may have to go there and visit the clinic. 
 O.J. MAYO: Yeah, hopefully going to visit the clinic and get a lot of wins. Last year I know they tried hard and came up short and this year, it's a new year and just want to be dedicated to play. 
 It's a long season and I'm excited to play and fit in with the guys, Brewer, McCants and Foye, they have put a tremendous team together.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT