NHL ENTRY DRAFT
June 23, 2001
Carlo Colaiacovo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Just state your thoughts.  You're joining probably one of the most storied franchises in the NHL, a team that pretty much is hockey, you know, hockey town; just your thoughts.

CARLO COLAIACOVO: Well, first of all I gotta catch my breath back, growing up in Toronto making the Maple Leafs, just a big family, part of the Maple Leafs, watching them growing up.  As a kid every kid's dream is to put on a jersey one day and my dream has come true. 


Q.  So you're saying you've been a Leaf fan.  What are your thoughts?  What can you bring to this team?  As a fan you probably know what they need?

CARLO COLAIACOVO: Well, I can probably bring the Leafs to my junior hockey club.  Because I go to the Leafs with one of my teammates.  I'm a pretty offensive offenseman who takes a lot of players off his defense game, but my character and hard work is definitely going to get me somewhere.


Q.  Do you think you're going to be trying out for the Leafs right away or what are your plans?

CARLO COLAIACOVO: I'm just going to go home during the summer, work my hardest, give it my all in training camp.  Even if I don't make the team right away, I'm just gaining experience from that, take it back to the junior club.  I won't be disappointed at all.  It's just a great honor to be part of the Leafs.  But I'll definitely be working all summer to meet my goal.


Q.  Carlo, big Toronto kid, having been drafted in the first round, what does that mean to you?

CARLO COLAIACOVO: It means a lot to me.  It's an honor to be drafted in the first round, let alone Maple Leafs.  Hometown boy growing up watching the Leafs.  It's just a great feeling and it's an honor. 


Q.  Can you talk about how your interviews went with the Maple Leafs?

CARLO COLAIACOVO: I talked to the Maple Leafs twice before the draft and they went really well.  We had a good relationship with all the scouts and me.  I felt very comfortable with all of them but it was great to meet them.  It was just great to be part of them. 


Q.  Do you have a lot of family with you here today and what was their reaction when they heard your name?

CARLO COLAIACOVO: Definitely.  I got a whole bunch of them.  They're all over the place here, you know, watching back home, too.  But being a Toronto boy, watching it on TV and stuff, being drafted by the Leafs is just a dream come true. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT