JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 12, 2007
Bob May
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Staying away from that fitness trailer now?   
 BOB MAY:  No, I go to that fitness trailer every day.   
  
  Q.  You said you hurt yourself working out?   
 BOB MAY:  Yeah, on a Life Cycle of all things, just warming up.  My hip had a spasm, and it caused my back to have a muscle spasm and just really messed me up pretty good for a while.  I thought my back went completely out on me again, and went and had MRIs and everything done, and everything came back fine.  So it was just a really severe back spasm.   
  
  Q.  That's just kind of the way your luck has been running the last several years, isn't it?   
 BOB MAY:  It is.  You know, I get on a roll and there's always something kicking me down, so hopefully there will be nothing to kick me down this week.  Maybe I can get on a good roll and keep it going the rest of the year.   
  
  Q.  Talk about starting fast and getting out here with the lead today.   
 BOB MAY:  You know, it's fun to come out and make a good putt on the first hole.  I've been working on my putting, so that gave me some good vibes right off the bat.  I struck the ball well, just kept on giving myself chances at birdies.   
  
  Q.  Bogey-free round up until that last hole.  Talk about the last hole.   
 BOB MAY:  Yeah, the last hole, I was just trying to draw a 7-iron in there and I pulled it a little bit left, and then obviously it was a right-to-left wind and it just turned over more than I wanted to.  If there was probably no wind, it probably might have caught the edge of the green, but with the wind -- it was a bad shot.   
  
  Q.  After the round satisfied to be where you're at?   
 BOB MAY:  Sure, I'm satisfied.  I played solid.  I might have left some out there, might have had some not go my way.   
  
  Q.  Hard to keep your frustration level in check?   
 BOB MAY:  You know, I can't get too frustrated.  A couple years ago I wasn't even swinging the club.  I was on bedrest for almost three years, not bedrest but golf rest for three years, so I can't be too upset.   
  
  Q.  That was the back, right?   
 BOB MAY:  Yes.   
  
  Q.  What did you have to do to get that back?   
 BOB MAY:  I had to have surgery.  I had surgery.  I had a spinal nerve canal that had to be routed out from L3 to S1.   
  
  Q.  They had you lay out for --   
 BOB MAY:  I was on bedrest for ten weeks after the surgery.  So I didn't basically touch a club for almost three years, two and a half years.   
  
  Q.  Did you feel like you had something going when -- in 2000?   
 BOB MAY:  Yeah, I felt like I had a lot of momentum going in 2000.  Just little things set me back.  But I'm hitting the ball -- I feel as well as I did back then, and if I start putting like I was back in 2000, I think we'll have good things happen.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT