FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 24, 2000
Bob May
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BOB MAY:  That is right.

BOB MAY:  The thoughts on tomorrow are just going to go out and try to do the same thing, have the same game plan, just take one hole at a time, one shot at a time.  One thing I didn't let everyone kind of let you guys know yesterday was my driver broke.  I was using a new driver today, so I didn't want a big deal made about it, so you know, I hit a couple drivers that maybe didn't go where I wanted, it is not exactly the same driver, still a Ping driver, though.  So that was my only kind of worries going into today, but the driver seemed to go all right.  So we have another round tomorrow and hopefully I will keep on playing the way I am playing.  I am putting well, hitting the ball pretty well, so just got to be patient and see what happens.


Q.  How did you break your driver?

BOB MAY:  Just hitting it.  The face cracked on it.


Q.  During the round yesterday?

BOB MAY:  I don't know when.  I just-- usually look at it once in a while.  I don't even know what made me look at it.  I looked at it yesterday.  I thought, gosh, looks like a crack.  It may not be a crack.  It may be a scratch, but it is right where -- if they do crack, that is where it is going to crack, so, I didn't want to get out there today, even though if you do play with it, and it does crack all the way through, you know, you can trade it out, but I didn't know the rule if you had an idea if it was cracked or not, if you would can play with it and I didn't want to have to worry about it in the morning trying to find out and then plan on using that driver, then find out, well, if you think there is maybe something wrong with it, you can't use it, so I just put my mindset that I am using this other driver and that was it.


Q.  Did you have another one?

BOB MAY:  I had another driver.  I travel with a backup, but it is a different shaft, so I called Ping and they made two up and had them here at my locker before I showed up today with the same shaft, but I didn't use those.  I used the one that I brought with me that I travel with.


Q.  Are you going to maybe practice with the two new ones and maybe swap out for tomorrow or are you going to stick with the backup tomorrow?

BOB MAY:  I will try it tomorrow.  I am not going to go out today.  I am beat.  I am worn out.  I will try it tomorrow and see what they are like and if it works better I will put it in the bag.


Q.  What is the difference in terms of your backup driver from?

BOB MAY:  Just the shaft.  I have two different shafts. One is a graphite and one is a fuji.  Both the same loft and everything, but just different shafts.


Q.  Does the finish affect your mindset like overnight or whatever?

BOB MAY:  No, it is not going to affect me.  I didn't hit the drive I wanted off of 17.  I was trying to turn it against some wind, I overturned it, and I hit a good shot up over the tree.  I thought I hit a pretty good chip, so I am not upset about that.  I don't know if you saw it on TV, I thought I hit a great putt.  I thought it was going to go in.  Just died off left, so really didn't hit anything real bad there.  18, I have been hitting 3-wood off that everyday, and I knew it was way too much club brings those bunkers into play, and I couldn't get myself to commit to the shot with a 2-iron off the tee.  I just kind of rushed it and never completed my backswing; got out ahead of it and hit it right, and that was kind of upsetting, yeah.  But in all, it was a long, long day.  We were out there a long time and the course played a little tougher with the wind out there.


Q.  Talk about the fact that you have put together three rounds in the 60s for the first time on Tour this year, and just how you are feeling these three days and putting this together going into Sunday?

BOB MAY:  You know, I feel good going into Sunday.  There  is a lot of good players out here.  I'd just like to go out and play a good round of golf tomorrow and if I win, that is great. If not, as long as I play a good round of golf, or what I think is a good round of golf, and if it is good enough, that is great.  If not, I will still be happy.


Q.  Sleeping on the lead, are you comfortable with that?

BOB MAY:  I haven't really thought about it.  I didn't look at the scoreboard all day today until I finished on 18.  That is fine with me.  That is fine.  I think I will sleep just fine. I have been sleeping good all week, so I don't think this will throw anything off.


Q.  Remember the last time you slept on a lead?

BOB MAY:  Yeah, third round Las Vegas, and we came out the next morning it was blowing about 40.  It was -- oh, it was a joke.  The course, I think the average score was 67.9 and on the course the previous three days and then the fourth round the course the average score was 77.9, went up ten shots.  That tells you how hard the wind was blowing.


Q.  With the wind, playing in Vegas and in Europe the last few years, are you used to playing in the wind like this?  Is it something that you are comfortable with?

BOB MAY:  Well, I think we are all used to playing in-- shouldn't say "used" to playing in the wind.  We are all at the caliber of golf that we can all hit the shots that we pretty much need to hit.  Some guys may not feel that comfortable in it. Especially when you come to a different golf course every week. Now if you are from here you might be used to the wind, but the wind doesn't bother me too much unless it is a good strong wind. Fortunately, today, the wind was pretty consistent, the direction it was blowing.  The front nine seemed to blow one direction and then about halfway through the back nine it kind of changed, but it stayed there once it changed.  So it was pretty consistent wind so you -- not swirling and things like that.  That is when it gets tough.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT