FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 23, 2000
Bob May
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BOB MAY:  Just starting the day, I just wanted to go out and have a solid round of golf and backup a good round that I had yesterday.  I didn't want to go out and kind of, you know, get involved in what I was shooting, instead just try to play solid and see what it adds up to.


Q.  Now that you can look at the board, it's got to be pretty nice to be at 10-under even though there is still some more people on the course?

BOB MAY:  It is nice to be at 10-under.  With the quality of players we have here, I doubt that it will be at the top of the leaderboard by the end of the day, but if it is, I will be happy and if not, then -- it is a long ways to go.  We are only halfway through the race, so, there is a lot of golf to be played.  So I am not looking that far ahead.  I am happy with where I am at.


Q.  You hit a lot of short irons into the greens?

BOB MAY:  Yeah, I hit a few short irons into the greens. Obviously with the temperature being up, the ball is flying pretty good out there, so you are getting probably about anywhere from five to eight more yards on your irons, at least I am, in distance than I usually get.  It makes the golf course play a little bit shorter, but there is still some really good holes out there to test you.


Q.  Is there a particular score to shoot for this weekend you think?

BOB MAY:  No, I am not going to predict any scores.  I was always taught when I was growing up that if you predict a score, let's say like 4-, 5-under, once you get there, you have reached your goal so what is there to -- it could stop you from actually shooting lower, so just go out and try to shoot as low as you can and add it up at the end of 18.


Q.  How low can it go on this golf course?

BOB MAY:  With perfect fairways like we have here and good greens, it can go low.  I think, you know, you can see a 63 or a 62 out there if the winds stay down, I think it could be done out here; not because it is an easy golf course, but because it is in good condition.


Q.  How did you feel about your game coming in this week? Were you working on things?

BOB MAY:  I am comfortable where I am at right now.  I have been playing well all year and just haven't had anything really bad or anything really great happen.  I have been comfortable with my game.  I found a little thing at the Open with my putting and seems like I have been putting well since last week and hopefully it will carry on through the rest of this week.


Q.  Would you compare last week's course to this course, as an example, or any other PGA TOUR course?

BOB MAY:  No, you can't.  There is no comparison.  Last week's greens, you might as well hit onto cart paths here and the rough was just so thick, I mean, it is nice to come here, you feel like you have some weight off your shoulders here.  Last week, if you made the slightest mistake you were going to pay for it.  It is just -- it is more of a mental tournament and mental contest than it is anything else.  At least that is my opinion.


Q.  With the performance you had last week, did that, you know, help carryover, finishing tied for 23rd; that had to feel pretty good?

BOB MAY:  It felt good.  I was happy, but I have been playing pretty decent all year and it just happened that-- just kept the same caliber of play through the Open and it just happened that the golf course was a little tougher, so everyone was bunched up.  Like I said, you feel a little more at ease walking around hereafter playing at the Open because it was just so -- I mean, you missed a shot either into the green or off the tee, you pretty much knew you had your work cut out.  Where, here, you can get some bad lies in the rough because the ball will sink down in the rough here, but it is not as drastic as last week.


Q.  I am curious playing in Europe, what did you learn about playing when you were in contention, the last nine holes and is it any different than over here?  Do you have to have --

BOB MAY:  When you are playing it is no different. Obviously, the only thing are different are the galleries are a  little bigger.  But other than that, there is no difference.  Golf is golf.  When you want to start talking golf course conditions, things like that, then there is differences like that.  The golf courses are in different condition - better condition usually over here than over there.  It is not so much their fault, just some countries we go to over there, the golf courses are limited on the chemicals they can use and things like that.  But when you are talking about being in contention it is just -- when you are in contention at any tournament, I think it is pretty much the same; maybe majors are obviously a little, you know, might -- you have to focus a little harder because there could be a few more outside distractions.


Q.  Do you feel more at ease with no Tiger Woods to contend with?

BOB MAY:  Oh, sure, exactly.  Don't we all.


Q.  Can you talk about, what did last year do for you and your game, the time you spent over there and the success you had there and the decision to come back here and go through Q-School?

BOB MAY:  It gave me a lot of confidence.  Obviously winning a tournament over there gives me confidence.  I think it helps people believe in themselves more.  Coming back over here the decision to do that was -- obviously, this is my home and it makes it easier for me to travel with my family playing here in the States, so that is why I made the decision to go through Tour School and try to play back over here.


Q.  So far is it paying off?

BOB MAY:  So far it is paying off right now, yes.


Q.  Is this the kind of tournament that really is a springboard for guys that maybe haven't broken through in the past and if you do, then just, you know, kind of take off from there?

BOB MAY:  I would hope -- if it happens, that would be great, hopefully -- you know, hopefully I will be in this position on Sunday, but it is a long ways to go, so I am not going to look that far ahead, but yeah, I think anybody that wins their first tournament over here it is a springboard for them.


Q.  You talked about this possibility being a springboard for somebody to win it, but in your particular case to win it what would it mean to you and that sort of thing?

BOB MAY:  It would be a dream come true.  We always as we are growing up as kids on the driving range saying:  This is to win this tournament; this is to win this -- whatever tournament it is, and I mean, I'd love it.  I have some friends here that I stay with in Memphis.  It is like -- almost like me being home here because they treat us so well here and other friends that we have here and so I would love to win here.


Q.  As you are walking around out there, you look at the leaderboard, you hear your name right at the top, what sort of feeling does that give you?  I realize we got 36 holes left --

BOB MAY:  I don't even really pay attention to that. Like I said, it is so far ahead.  It is nice to see your name up there, obviously, it means you are playing well, but you can't really pay attention to things like that.  You get caught up in looking too far ahead of yourself.

BOB MAY:  Yes.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT