U.S. AMATEUR FOUR-BALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 21, 2018
Bobby Bucey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. That was a tight match today.  For a long time we finally had a bunch of guys go out and get seven holes this morning.
BOBBY BUCEY: Yeah, that might have worn on them a little bit.  We didn't have our stuff today, really.  Just a long -- just a long day.  It's been a long week already, and it's kind of only just begun, hopefully.
Q. And you had to sit through another two-hour delay?
BOBBY BUCEY: Right, two-hour delay.  That actually almost helped us a little bit.  We had just lost 6, and they just made a birdie, I think, on 5.  We halved the hole with the birdie on 5 and they won 6 with a par.  So it was nice to kind of regroup.  We weren't hitting it great, so to get back in and be able to go hit some balls actually helped us a little bit this time.  So, yeah, that actually helped more than hurt.
Q. Yeah, sometimes it can.  Sometimes it can take away momentum, sometimes it can help you regroup.
BOBBY BUCEY: Seemed like we were hitting fairways just fine and just putting a little too much pressure on ourselves hitting it into the greens and not making free enough swings.
Q. Was there a key point on the second nine where you started to pull away?  Was that a key hole?
BOBBY BUCEY: Oh, man.  Brett eagled number 13.  He hit a 4-iron in there really tight.
Q. That's a 600-yard hole.
BOBBY BUCEY: Yeah, he ripped that driver and hit a 4-iron in there really tight.
Q. How close?
BOBBY BUCEY: I think like four or five feet.  Right on the ridge and came back.  So that was big.  We lost the next one and hit two big drives on the semi-reachable par-4 today.  I think, what is it, 15?
Q. 15, yeah.
BOBBY BUCEY: We both made birdie there, and I closed with birdie on 16.
Q. Who made the birdie?
BOBBY BUCEY: We both did, but he got it in first.
Q. How close?
BOBBY BUCEY: He hit it to three feet, spun a little wedge down in there, probably 40, 50 yards out of the way.
Q. Now that you have your match out of the way, is there a little comfort zone?  Because sometimes being a medalist, you're the hunted and they're the underdog, and now you've got a match under your belt.  You get a feel for it?
BOBBY BUCEY: It's for both of us the first time even making it to match play, so just to feel some of those feelings getting out there and feeling what it feels like to play in a match.  So, yeah, I think getting that under our belts is going to be good, give us some confidence going into tomorrow.
Q. You've got Dave Denham and Stuart Moore tomorrow.  Denham is a former University of Georgia stud, won a National Championship there.
BOBBY BUCEY: Awesome, looking forward to that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT