CHICK-FIL-A PEACH BOWL: FLORIDA VS MICHIGAN
December 29, 2018
Jim Harbaugh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Florida - 41, Michigan - 15
THE MODERATOR: Coach, take a short opening comment, then we'll go right to questions.
JIM HARBAUGH: We can go right to questions.
THE MODERATOR: Okay.
Q. Jim, looking back, do you feel like maybe your team was not emotionally ready, maybe coming off the Ohio State game, maybe players sitting out, did you feel like they weren't quite ready for this?
JIM HARBAUGH: I thought they were ready.
Q. Emotionally?
JIM HARBAUGH: I thought they were emotionally ready, yeah.
THE MODERATOR: Next question.
Q. Overall what went wrong offensively and what made it so hard to move the ball today and put points on the board?
JIM HARBAUGH: Combination of things.  Started out not picking up in the third and short and the fourth and very short.  That hurt.  That hurt one drive.  We were moving the ball at times and close to getting into a rhythm, but we didn't get the run game going effectively enough.  Or the passing game, the protection, and the rhythm in that area to make it -- we got outplayed, really, on that side of the ball.  Florida did a nice job defensively.
Defensively, it was really the same story.  We didn't play as well.  Had some -- had missed calls, adjustments.  We left a couple receivers wide open, some things that we don't normally do.
Q. Jim, is it too early to tell what taste you'll take from this season, a 10-3 season with two losses to end it?
JIM HARBAUGH: It was a very good season.  It would have been a great season had we won this game.  Didn't get that done.
My feeling about the team is we're right there to the top, but we have to put it over the top.  Especially in the big games at the end of the year.
Q. Last year, after the bowl game, you made a lot of changes.  Do you anticipate making a lot of changes after this, or what are you going to take from this and change?
JIM HARBAUGH: I think we're going to take what we have and reload.  A new season and tighten up.  But keep working.  Keep working to put it over the top.
Q. I have two.  So piggybacking on that, so you don't anticipate any changes on the staff going into next season?
JIM HARBAUGH: No.
Q. Also, Kwity Paye and Devin Gil, a couple injuries.  Can you share what those were?
JIM HARBAUGH: Yeah.  They were both hamstrings.
Q. Just to follow up, you said you're right there, just can't get over the top, especially in the big games.  What do you think has been missing in the big games late in the season?
JIM HARBAUGH: We're beaten by -- on those days, we were beaten by better teams.  So we have to persevere, be persistent, keep working, and put it over the top.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Coach.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT