NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 4, 2001
Margaret Okayo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 

Q.  Margaret, are you surprised that you were able to get the record running by yourself for as long as you did, having to pace yourself?
 
MARGARET OKAYO:  Yeah, I was very happy when I finish - I break the record I feel happy. 
 

Q.  Did it surprise you though that you were able to break it without being pushed by other women for so much of the race running on your own?
 
MARGARET OKAYO:  I was just -- first thing I already trained, I use my best to finish the race. 
 

Q.  I saw you break away very, very fast, like a 5:01, 5:03 mile or something, was that in the plan or it just happened because you felt so great?
 
MARGARET OKAYO: It happened because I got a lot of my friends on the way, they were cheering me.  I was landing because they saw me, great pressure for me, so I just think myself that I can do my best. 
 

Q.  What did you think of the new course going down Fifth Avenue instead of up the hill?
 
MARGARET OKAYO: The course was very nice. 
 
MARGARET OKAYO:  Yeah, there's a difference because last year there was a hill of 200 meters, but this time, there was no hill. 
 

Q.  Was there any estimate, do you think, how much time might it have saved you to not have to go that hill?  Did it have any impact?
 
MARGARET OKAYO:  Yeah.  
 

Q.  Do you know how much seconds, ten seconds more than that?
 
MARGARET OKAYO:  Yeah, the hill to always grow your speed when you come from the  -- when you come for hill, cramping, you must (inaudible) than when you are in. 
 

Q.  Talk about her training in Italy with Dr. Rosa and what that experience has been like for you?
 
MARGARET OKAYO:  Yeah, I train in Italy with Dr. Rosa.  He's my coach.  I train with some other athletes there.  We usually go for group when we train there.  
 

Q.  What kinds of work could you tell us do you do?
 
MARGARET OKAYO:  Every week we must go for long run and also we go for speed walk. 
 

Q.  How many miles total would you say  -- about how many miles your top mileage, weekly, would you say?
 
MARGARET OKAYO:  Me, I don't know about miles.  We use something like 150 kilometers per week, but about mileage, I don't know.  
 

Q.  Did the atmosphere seem a little different today and the feeling after September 11 as a result of that?
 
MARGARET OKAYO:  Yeah, I was surprised that when I came in, race organizers, I thank the people here.  I didn't know what the race to be great like today.  Sure, I am very happy. 
 

Q.  Did you train to run, in part of your training?  Did you train to run, go that fast in the middle of the race, or you never, like, trained for that?
 
MARGARET OKAYO:  Usually, when we go for a long run our coach tell us when you finish let us say when you go for that K, the fast 5K. The last you go for pushing, also the middle of the race you must push, yeah.  
 

Q.  You train with men in Italy or  --
 
MARGARET OKAYO:  We trained with the other Kenyans, with women, even Italians, they are there.  We train together.  
 

Q.  Did you expect to have other women with you from mile 15?  Were you surprised to be alone from mile 15, one person?
 
MARGARET OKAYO:  Yeah, I was waiting for them to come to push each other, to assist each other.  I was waiting for them from behind, but bad luck they never come. 
 

Q.  When did you know that you were not going to be challenged, that you had won the race?  When did you feel you had it won?
 
MARGARET OKAYO:  When I reached 25 K. On the bridge. 
 

Q.  Did you know you were getting the course record?  When did you know that the record might be yours?
 
MARGARET OKAYO:  No, I didn't know that I was going to break the record.  I just say that let me try to push so that I can finish, but I was surprised when I finish, I heard I got the course record.  
 

Q.  Do you think you would have broken the course record if you had to run that hill, the same course as last year?
 
MARGARET OKAYO:  Yeah, I tried.  
 

Q.  Did you think your time today you still could have broken the former course record if you had to run the course that was here last year?
 
MARGARET OKAYO: No, no way.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT