ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
February 26, 2020
Bismah Maroof
Saleem Jaffar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Pakistan - 127/2, West Indies - 124/7   
 Q.  Bismah, is that the best Pakistan performance you've been involved in?  
BISMAH MAROOF: I think we have changed a very good match today. We've struggled at times in the past, but we focused to stay calm and stay in the middle, and we know that if we get a partnership, we need to get going, and I think our bowlers played very well, and I think credit to Nida, as well, how she played and finished the game.   
 Q.  You mentioned that run chase, but how good were the seamers up front? I thought Diana was superb with the new ball. What pleased you most about that performance? And Coach, what pleased you most about that bowling display?  
BISMAH MAROOF: I think she has been bowling really well with the new ball. I think that was -- with Aiman, as well. She bowled really well up front, and I think credit to them. We take crucial wickets at good times, and that's what we wanted, restricting them under 120. That was very good effort by the bowlers.   
 Q.  You were always in charge of that run chase. Was it an effort for you to get ahead of the required run rate and you managed to keep it around a run a ball? Was that part of the initial plan when you went out to start the chase?  
BISMAH MAROOF: I think how the openers have played, I think they set the tone for us, and we just need to get the run rate going, and yeah, we want to play aggressive cricket and get the bad balls to the boundaries, and I think especially openers showed a good intent.   
 Q.  Just one for the bowling coach, just following up on Diana's opening spell, you can talk about all these things leading into a tournament, you come to the first over of a tournament and she bowls an over, a spell as good as that. How pleasing is that for you as a coach?  
SALEEM JAFFAR: Actually we already had our homework was suitable for the Australian conditions. Actually that's the reason we came early over here, to adapt to conditions over here.   
Actually my focus was for them, what I said to my bowlers - let's work on the variations, slower ones, yorkers and target bowling. What's suitable for bowlers, where you pitch the ball, length ball, what's the length ball. Actually I saw the couple of matches in Perth. That's how we work over there, and it's worked, and I'm happy with Diana and other bowlers, too. They really bowled well.   
 Q.  Bismah, how important was the decision to refer and get Campbelle out, as well?  
BISMAH MAROOF: I think we were just confused is it hit on the gloves or not, and I think we need a wicket at that time, and I think it was a very good review.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT