ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
November 14, 2018
Jahanara Alam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Sri Lanka - 97/7, Bangladesh - 72
Q. What was the feeling of your side?  You were set 98 for victory.  Was the start very important towards reaching that target?
JAHANARA ALAM: Yes, definitely.  Start is very important in any side, I think with the bowl and the bat definitely.  But we restrict them 98.  This is a good total to chase, I think, and we have a good batting side even.
But I don't know what happened.  I was very disappointed for us, definitely.  We couldn't click with our bat.  But we're still hoping, with our confidence next match we'll get more harder with the bat.
Q. I think everyone is impressed with your bowling.  Throughout the world people are watching here in the Caribbean and are very impressed with your bowling.  Is it your batting maybe that needs to come good?
JAHANARA ALAM: Thank you so much for good compliments.  Yes, with the bat -- you know, I did preparation very well, and before came Guyana, we had good practice facilities over in Grenada.  Over there we spent seven days, and we played three practice matches against under-17 girls and boys, and we played there and lost and won one.  And there I went for bat No. 3, and I could make 9 runs off 54 balls.  So that was a confidence of mine.  And yes, in practice matches, also, I did well.  As allrounder, I had a confidence and I had set a big goal to become an allrounder again in this World Cup.  But it's not happening.  With only one match remaining, I don't know what happened.  But I will try my best next match with the bat definitely.
Q. What's the reaction in Bangladesh?  You all are a cricket-crazy country like the Caribbean.  The national team is here.  What are people saying in Bangladesh about how you have done so far?
JAHANARA ALAM: Yeah, definitely Bangladesh is a cricket-crazy nation.  They like cricket very much, but you know, the way we play, they are hoping too much on us.  Definitely they are expecting on, definitely.  But the way we're playing, yeah, we should have won the match.
Anyways, I think they are disappointed, definitely.  They are cricket-crazy supporters definitely, our side, but yeah, I think I can say to them don't lose hope on us.  Please keep faith on us.
Q. And you've had two, three wicket hauls, which is very good.  You didn't bowl much in the second match, but every time you bowled you've taken wickets and your celebrations are really catching on.  The whole world is watching you and they're enjoying your celebrations.  What's the emotion like when you actually take a wicket?  How do you feel when you get a wicket?
JAHANARA ALAM: You know, I love to get a wicket bowled out, and when I get that, I just love -- this is something I'm getting.
The most emotional thing is when I'm not getting a wicket, I'm getting -- I'm giving lots of run with my bowl.  That time I feel so sad.  I feel like I couldn't do anything for my team.  But yes, with the bowl, I'm a big success because I'm taking a few wickets with my first spell, I do good bowling, and at the end of the time, today is a big over I can't accept, but there was two safe batsman, and yes, at the end I got to -- yeah, that's a good side.  After getting wicket, I love to enjoy that moment.  I forget everything, whatever going on around me.
Q. And you're the Asia Cup champions, and I know before the tournament you said one of the goals was to not have to qualify for the next Twenty20 in 2020.  I'm sure now you've seen what the other teams have to offer and you can go about planning better so you can get in that top group to be automatic qualifiers?
JAHANARA ALAM: Yes, yes, absolutely right.  We had a goal that we don't want to play any more qualifiers, T20 qualifiers.  We had a goal also that we want to play semifinals, but we lost that before we played to this game.  And two days after this game, we lost our ranking even.  We're going to become a ranking sixth, seventh, like this.  But we have still chance to increase our ranking against South Africa if we own this game.  Who knows, something can happen.  So it's a cricket game, it's an unpredictable game.  Anything can happen at any time.
Q. Can you tell us about what inspired you personally to become a professional cricketer, and is there anyone on the international cricket scene that you've tried to emulate or has been an inspiration to you?
JAHANARA ALAM: No.  Actually I've been not forced from anyone, not been inspired from anyone to become a professional cricketer.  I feel like, yes, I'm a professional cricketer, besides I'm doing my study, I'm doing my graduation not completed yet.  But before came in cricket, I used to play handball and volleyball.  At that time my age was 11.  Three years I played that, and when cricket started in my country, that I've been offered please come to cricket, and I said, okay, no problem, I can.  I got full support from my family, and that is the main positive things in my life.
After that -- you know, before came in cricket, I couldn't watch even cricket match.  I didn't know any player, women's and men's.  I didn't like even because I felt like cricket rules are very tough.  I can't remember what they were.
After I came in cricket, I just loved it, and this is in my blood now.  I can't part it from me.
Q. So does this come naturally to you?
JAHANARA ALAM: It comes naturally to me.  It's a different story about me.
Q. Which do you prefer?  Do you prefer bowling or batting?
JAHANARA ALAM: Well, when I selected -- at that time I couldn't bowl or batting even.  But my coach, Sheikh Salahuddin, he's passed away, he asked me to do batting.  I said okay.  After one month, we did so many hard work, and I beat him at base bowler, and I had a good out swing and good base, also.  In our first tournament, I became the hardest wicket taker.  I took 13 wickets, and I've been called to the national camp for the first time.  But unluckily, in 2007 it was, unluckily at that time I wasn't selected for the main team.  I was in a squad.  After 2008 I came to the national team, and I started my career from that until today.
Q. The Bangladesh team, some of the West Indies players are on contract.  That's their full-time job.  Any of the Bangladesh players are on contract with the Bangladesh board?
JAHANARA ALAM: Yes.  Yeah, we have a central contract.  We are 22 girls that are contracted by the Bangladesh Cricket Board.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT