ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
November 9, 2018
Jahanara Alam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Now that you all started really well, how encouraging was that to have that start and then afterwards how disappointing was the batting performance?  
JAHANARA ALAM: We started well. I can mention our bowling unit as a bowling unit and fielding unit was awesome, but at the end, really disappointed for us because it was a good total to chase - 107.  But unfortunately, we're falling down, our batting.   
We played well the last few matches, but we hoped really actually that we can reach them, but looking forward to the next match.   
 Q.  What happened with the batting?  
JAHANARA ALAM: Well, these are different conditions, you know, under the lights, and some dew was there in the second innings.  But all was good.  I think we hurried a little to add those runs, and I was the No. 3, and I couldn't play my role as I've been on the wicket. So yeah, I feel that we've not lost our confidence still.  We have confidence, and we are really looking forward .  We have three games still, and if we play really well, we could do something.   
 Q.  You playing at No. 3, you also played a nice role in the warmup, but this must be something new for you, also.  What was the thinking behind sending you up the order?  
JAHANARA ALAM: Yes, there was some reason, because you know, I think I can play a little good shots, so I think for the scoring, put some more runs for the scoreboard.  For that reason, I've been sent there, but unfortunately it couldn't work.  Hopefully next time it will work.  I will try my best, definitely.  That's the thing only.   
 Q.  How was it facing the Windies because in the beginning it was setting it down pretty fast --  
JAHANARA ALAM: Well, I feel during practice I faced some good bowlers, from here bowlers and in Bangladesh some men's bowlers, in the '17 under-19 mix-up.  But I feel that in this condition, a little dew was there, a little movement there, not too many first what I faced before in practice, but I got caught by a little slow movement.  I gave a thought, two overs still directly.  I think it's disappointing for me, also, and I had (indiscernible), but still, I'm looking forward.   
 Q.  Deandra was bowling quite a lot of balls around 70 miles, 75 miles per hour.  You looked like some of you were just being beaten for pace.  Was the ball staying low or was she just bowling really quickly?  
JAHANARA ALAM: Yeah, last World Cup I bowled almost similar, so this World Cup I have a target that I should bowl a little faster with a good swing, so I just tried that.   
 Q.  Can you take us through your first bowling spell?  You removed their openers.  At that point you must have been feeling very confident that you could do something special.  
JAHANARA ALAM: Yes, after two years we faced them - the West Indies.  They are a really good team.  They are the world champions from last time, and they are a good team, a strong team.  To compete with them, I think we should play really -- we had to play well with our batting.   
Yes, I started well with my bowling, first bowling spell, and yes, I was a little confident that if I bowled in my way, with my plan, with our team plan, then yes, not only me with a full team, with the whole bowling unit, we can do well, and we did it.  But at the end, we put up a little below-handed.  I think a little mis-feeling, miscommunication, one catch miss, three runs came from them, and some overthrows.  So I think we need to concentrate more on our fielding.   
 Q.  Can you talk us through that final wicket, that catch?  What was going on?  Tell us about what happened and your reaction.  
JAHANARA ALAM: Actually I thought, it was my catch, thought about it definitely, but then when I ran through to the ball, then I thought suddenly that that is near to the 'keeper, and when I -- the second time I thought even the keeper hand is a seven, okay, so I looked once to the keeper, and I saw the wicketkeeper stood, and then I just looked up and ball had already fallen down.  I just raised my hand, and the ball came into my hand, and I was surprised, what happened.  Actually that was my luck, I think that was.   
 Q.  Just finally, a lot of people have been predicting that Bangladesh is a team that could cause a big upset in this tournament.  Do you still feel that you can really shake up and beat one of the bigger teams?  
JAHANARA ALAM: Yes, we do believe, because before came here, we have been practicing a lot. We did lots of hard work, preparing ourselves nicely, and you know, from BCB, they provide us good facilities of practice.  So yes, we do believe that because we're on the shake-up.  We beat India twice.  We beat Pakistan once.  After four years we beat Pakistan, and the first time we beat twice India.  So we believe in that sense.  We have confidence.  But this is the World Cup.  This is a different platform.  In this platform, if you show yourself, you have to think defend away.   
So this is not easy to come and perform here, I think.  So I feel, yes, we are like a younger team.  We don't have that much experience like India, West Indies, Australia, New Zealand or whoever.  We are very young like this.  This is our No. 3 World Cup.   
So yes, we do believe that we can, and with that belief, we are moving forward.   
 Q.  Two matches were played on the same pitch, which went to the full length, so it was 80 overs on the same pitch, and you guys won the toss and elected to field, which would have meant when you guys batted it would have had 100 overs on it.  Apart from the results, do you think that that had a factor to play in it?  
JAHANARA ALAM: Well, we elected to field first two matches because of our strength -- we believe that our strength is definitely bowling and fielding.  If we restrict to others below 120, then we can raise them as our batting unit.  So yes, we can, we could in previous times you saw, but that was our strategy actually.   
And I think in this situation, if we play like the last match, today's match at 8:00, this is the second innings so it will come and some problems there, but we still believe on our strategy.  If we restrict some others below on our strength, then we can reach them.  So that's why we choose fielding, and we had success, but you know, with the bat we couldn't.   
 Q.  And you mentioned that you guys are fairly new in these kind of tournaments with this being your third and coming up against a strong Windies side.  Was it imposing facing them?  
JAHANARA ALAM: Not really.  Against the Windies in the West Indies, they are a good team, strong team definitely. They have good baters, world-class batters, four or five good batters, strong, highly diverse.  You saw to this match we got them out very near firstly, but yes, we success our plan, with our plan, and that was the reason actually.   
 Q.  Your bowling was spot-on.  What are some positives you can take from today's match?  
JAHANARA ALAM: Well, if I find there are so many positive things, and yeah, if I am going to find the negative thing, I will say learn from mistakes.  But if I say but yeah, there are some positive things, you know, their opener we got them in the powerplay, got out them, and we fielded well, definitely.  As a bowling and fielding unit, we restrict them below 120.   
Just it was a good team unity.  So all around good, but yes, with this confidence and speed, team speed, we're moving forward to the next game. Hopefully we will play for a win.   
 Q.  All of you looked very fast, your movements looked very fit.  Have you put in any special work in fitness as a team in the last six months?  
JAHANARA ALAM: Not last six months.  We had appointed a new trainer from India, and she's too good.  So we've been worked on our fitness.  We all are doing so many hard work for this World Cup.  We really did hard work, so many.  So not only fitness, bowling, batting, fielding, all those areas.  Actually at the end, all are watching about the result.  So I think about fitness, about bowling, fielding, batting, the preparation not make sense if you're not going to win.  That is the main reason we're looking forward to winning actually.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT