ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS SCOTTISH OPEN
October 3, 2020
Marcus Kinhult
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. You must be delighted, I imagine at the start, you'd have take especially level par?
 MARCUS KINHULT:   Yeah, it was a bit of a roller coaster out there for me.  Played well, actually, and then around No. 12, 13, we thought they might call it off, but they didn't.  I'm glad we got to finish today, because it would have been tough to come out tomorrow morning, and I had a pretty good finish today.   It was fine.  I'm happy.
 Q. Are you surprised the course was able to stand up to some of the rainout there?
 MARCUS KINHULT:   Well, I struggled with two or three holes, but yeah, we'll see how it goes.  Until then, it was fine, actually, if you stayed away from the bunkers, which I did, luckily.  It was fine -- yeah, tough course.
 Q. And you're right in the mix heading into tomorrow, as well.  Having tasted these conditions today, what is going to be key for you tomorrow?
 MARCUS KINHULT:   Be the same thing, really.  I don't know about the forecast for tomorrow.  It looks okay, tomorrow, I heard, not great.
 Q. Wet.
 MARCUS KINHULT:   Wet.  That's good, I have another pair of shoes; they won't dry until tomorrow.  Yeah, whole see.  Got a good taste of it tomorrow -- so prepare for anything.
 Q. Six pars, six birdies, six bogeys, level par.  How pleased are you to get through today?
 MARCUS KINHULT:   Actually the part about the six, six, six, you're talking on 17, I just steadied the ship and finished par, par.  Yeah, happy with it.  I obviously would have taken that start of the week.  It was tough, tougher than I expected, but yeah, just happy we got to finish.  Really close to suspending play, but I'm happy they didn't.  I finished okay, so that's fine.
 Q. 12, 13, 14, you came back and you didn't let that destroy what you had going.  Tell us about how proud you are of the way you finished.
 MARCUS KINHULT:   Those holes were so tough.  I think, yeah, 12 into the wind, 13, cross-wind off the left, I almost aimed in the ocean, and still missed the fairway right.  So it was just brutal down there, and bogey, bogey on 12, 13.  I mean, bogeys aren't great but it's not bad either.  On 14, it was a bit unnecessary on the fringe.  I don't know, a good finish again.  Birdie on 16.
 Q. Good to be tested but that was quite extreme did.  They get a point where you thought, pretty soon, someone will say enough's enough.
 MARCUS KINHULT:   Yeah, we talked about it on 12 tee because we saw it was starting to flood a little bit.  We thought they probably would have called it off, and exact same thing on 13 tee.  We didn't want to hit those tee shots because we kind of hoped they would call it off, but we didn't so we had to hit them.  We both missed them right, which wasn't so surprising.  But yeah, round, as I said, I'm happy we got to finish.  I'm just happy I got a good finish.  Could have been a lot worse.
 Q. Gold star available, tomorrow, Rolex Series.  You're smiling now.  You're in the mix.
 MARCUS KINHULT:   Yeah, it's going to be tight tomorrow.  I think anyone has a chance.  I saw guys going out first group this morning, they shot 4-under today and they are in the mix, as well.  I think anything can happen around here and we'll see what the weather brings tomorrow.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT