NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CAVALIERS vs CELTICS
May 20, 2018
Jordan Clarkson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You took 10 shots last night.  How good did that feel just to be able to find a place in the offense to get that many looks?
JORDAN CLARKSON: It felt good.  Just trying to find a rhythm and make shots when I get the opportunity.
Q. We've talked to you a couple times about trying to find that rhythm.  I guess you could say you haven't found it yet, but having a couple drop last night, do you think that could be something that gets you heading down the right path?
JORDAN CLARKSON: Yeah, seeing shots go in is always a good feeling.  Getting those opportunities when I'm on the court -- all of it is just shooting with confidence.  The more looks I get, I feel like they'll go in.
Q. I remember what you said after the very first playoff game, that maybe you felt you were a little nervous --
JORDAN CLARKSON: Yeah.
Q. Ty Lue said that he doesn't think overall you get nervous.  Do you feel any of the pressure playing here in the playoffs with LeBron and trying to get to The Finals?
JORDAN CLARKSON: I mean, to be honest, I don't really feel much, like Ty said.  But that first playoff series, it was something new for me.  I wouldn't say I was nervous, just a little like -- something new.  Even with every series, it's a new series for me -- just trying to find my place, do my job.
Q. Have you noticed teams defending you differently in the playoffs than the regular season?
JORDAN CLARKSON: Yeah, especially those first two series.  They were hard showing and doing different stuff I hadn't seen throughout the year.  It's all been kind of a learning process for me.
Q. How did you process not playing in Game 2?
JORDAN CLARKSON: It is what it is.  Coach is making decisions.  I'm here trying to win.  If I'm sitting on the sideline, I'm cheering my teammates on.  I'm in the game still just watching and learning.  If I get an opportunity to get on the court, I've got to be ready.
Q. Have you been here long enough to realize how big it is when you guys start hitting threes?  It seems like the whole -- even the defense is better.
JORDAN CLARKSON: Yeah, it kind of brings more out of the team.  When we're making shots, scoring the ball, when we're playing fast, everybody is having fun.  You want to get on the other end and get stops so you can get back to it.
Q. To get 10 shots last night, what was there for you that maybe hadn't been there earlier in the Playoffs?
JORDAN CLARKSON: Just being out there, getting those opportunities, getting those looks.  I always try to find a rhythm, try to find my place.  I'm not on this team to pound the ball.  I'm on here to take shots that are open when I'm there and to be aggressive when I'm in the game.  That's it.
Q. You know Larry Nance better than us.  Do you get a sense he's kind of coming into his own in the playoffs?
JORDAN CLARKSON: Yeah, Larry knows his job.  He's going to screen, he's going to roll, he's going to get rebounds and he's going to defend.  I think his time is coming in this series.  Yesterday he came in ready.  A lot of people don't know, we play like every other day in the morning.  We're just trying to stay ready so whenever we get our name called, we'll be ready to go to work.
Q. When LeBron has one of those alley-oops or whatever, do you kind of enjoy the athleticism that goes into one of those plays?
JORDAN CLARKSON: Yeah, it definitely brings everybody to their feet.  It's good for the team.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT