CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: MISSISSIPPI STATE v GEORGIA TECH
December 29, 2014
Zach Laskey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How do you feel coming out this year knowing that this is your senior year?   Is this how you anticipated it would feel?
ZACH LASKEY:   Yes, sir.   I mean, the beginning of the season we established some goals, and this is where we wanted to be sitting at the end of the year, this or the playoffs.   We've been fortunate enough to get here, now we've got one more game to seal the deal. 

Q.   What's this like being at the Orange Bowl?   Pretty cool?
ZACH LASKEY:   Oh, it's amazing.   This is kind of one of those big‑‑ what used to be the BCS bowl, so it was kind of something you worked for your entire career, and to get to go out as a senior and come out and play an Orange Bowl, it's special.

Q.   There's not many programs that get to go through every year and be in a bowl every single season, but you have.   Is it hard to not take this for granted somewhat after all these years?
ZACH LASKEY:   Yeah, Georgia Tech has got an impressive streak going, so I've been fortunate enough to go to a bowl every year, and I've got friends who play on other teams who haven't been able to do that.   It's something that you can't take for granted because these are all special.   These are something I'll always remember for the rest of my life.

Q.   They are all special, but does this one this year feel a little bit bigger, a little more hoopla around this game?
ZACH LASKEY:   Oh, my gosh, yes.   We're playing on a national stage, 8:00 right before New Year's.   The whole nation is going to be watching, so it's a big deal.

Q.   When you watch film of Mississippi State, do they remind you of anybody you've played so far this year?
ZACH LASKEY:   I think defensively their front seven reminds us a lot of Clemson.   They have a big, big front seven, and it's going to be a great challenge.   They've got good athletes, we've got good athletes, and we're ready to have a little smashmouth football.

Q.   Before we came down to South Florida I asked you about you and Synjyn and how you've been splitting carries.   Do you have any idea how Coach is going to dictate when you're out there and when Synjyn is out there or is it more of a feel thing?
ZACH LASKEY:   It's more of a feel thing, I believe.   Either way, either of us can get the job done, and we're going to go ahead and we're going to pop those guys, and it's going to be a good battle.

Q.   I know that you want to play as much as you can, but is it nice to know that you've got a guy to split carries with, because at B‑back when you're just employing up the middle on those dives, I can imagine that can be a pretty grueling process?
ZACH LASKEY:   Yeah, sometimes you get through a drive and it gets pretty challenging or you're pretty sore or you need a breather.   It's nice to be able to say, hey, I need a breather and the offense isn't going to lose its stride.

Q.   What about being down here at the Orange Bowl?   What has the experience been like for you from an enjoyment standpoint?
ZACH LASKEY:   It's been great.   Yesterday we were out there riding jet skis.   That was the highlight of the trip so far.   We've got a few nights‑‑ coach gave us a new curfew to get out and see the city of Miami, which is cool since I've never been there, and we've been doing a lot of team activities and just tightening up our bond.

Q.   Any good stories so far from jet skiing or going out in Miami?
ZACH LASKEY:   Yeah, there's some good stories.   A lot of guys went out and had a good time, and that was pretty funny, but I'd have to leave it to them to tell you those stories.

Q.   As you get closer to this game, you've played in all these bowls, is it sometimes like you're enjoying yourself so much, oh, my gosh, we've got a football game to focus on, or is it easy to compartmentalize the fun and the football?
ZACH LASKEY:   You know, to be honest, for me the first night I was like, I'm going to go out and have fun because we had practiced the day already before, and right after that it's just strictly football.   Yesterday I had fun on the jet skis, but since the first practice, I want to win this morning anything. 

Q.   It's already been a special season.   How cool would it be to get 11 wins?
ZACH LASKEY:   11 wins would be special.   I don't know, I think there might have been four teams in Georgia Tech history to have done that, so we want to be number five.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT