MLB WORLD SERIES: GIANTS v ANGELS
October 18, 2002
Tim Salmon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Small-ball style that Mike has got this team playing, he says this is mostly just him adapting to the talent that's here.  Had there been much of this before he got here?  How hard was it to get the team to buy into this approach?

TIM SALMON:  Well, I think it's  -- I think every team buys into it to some extent.  But I think, like I've been saying, in spring training when we had the hitters meeting early in camp, we talked about how to win our division, to go against the pitching we were going to face in our division, we were going to have to really pay attention and focus on that part of the game, manufacturing runs.  It was just an emphasis of focus that we put on early in camp.  Everybody was sold on it because we all recognized what lied ahead.  When you're thinking about facing those pitchers in Oakland and Seattle, those are the teams that we're looking to leap frog or get past, we recognize that we were not going to be able to score five or six runs every night off those guys.  It really wasn't a hard sell.  I think the hardest part was just maintaining the focus day in and day out, through spring training, all throughout the year, of just focusing on when you do your routine and batting practice, situational hitting during the game, just to remember to do those kinds of things. 

Q.  Were you kind of hoping to see Edmonds and Finley on the field rather than in the stand, as they're going to be tomorrow night, after playing with those guys for so long? 

TIM SALMON:  You know what?  Jimmy, boy, I tell you what, he has a lot of history here.  He's a big-game player.  To be quite honest, it would have been great to play against him, but he scares me.  Because I know he's the kind of guy that, playing against us, I'm sure he would play pretty well.  He did in the one interleague series we played against them.  So, I wasn't real excited about the prospects of what he would do against us at the plate.  But we got J.T. over there, he came up with us, and we're excited  -- not excited  -- but I think it's great, the history, the past that we've had with him. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT