MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 5, 2005
Silvia Cavalleri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAUL ROVNAK:  Silvia Cavalleri, thanks for joining us.  Can you just go through your birdies and bogeys.
SILVIA CAVALLERI:  About my bogey on number 1, good drive in the fairway.  I was into the wind.  I couldn't really judge how strong the wind was, so I choose a 6 iron when I should have chose a 7 iron.  It made me make a bad swing.  I didn't make up and down.

Then I eagled No. 7.  I was on the green and I had like 6 meters putt for eagle.

Birdied the next one, No. 8.  Hit my 6 iron about 3 meters, and made that birdie.

The next one I made birdie on the 11, the short par 4.  I hit my wedge about three meters, made the birdie putt.

Then 15, I birdied the par five with the wedge shot another two meters
PAUL ROVNAK:  We'll take some questions.
Q.  Does your mother still caddie for you?
SILVIA CAVALLERI:  No.  No.  No.
Q.  When did that change?
SILVIA CAVALLERI:  
She caddie this year only in Vegas, in tournament in Vegas.  As last year she broke her wrist, so I had to find a caddie.  So I have been looking around and changing a lot of caddies and this past season, last tournament of the year, Stephanie caddied for me right there, and we did pretty good, and I finished third.  So she said "If you need me for next year."

I was glad to get her.
Q.  She broke her wrist, that must be a heavy golf bag.
SILVIA CAVALLERI:  
My golf bag?
Q.  How did she break her wrist?
SILVIA CAVALLERI:  
Slipped on the golf course.  She put the wrist down and the bag's weight.
Q.  Those are very unique shoes you have on.  What is this design you have got going here?
SILVIA CAVALLERI:  
FootJoy.  Multicolor.  Very comfortable.
Q.  Is that a little bit of your personality when you wear a shoe like that?
SILVIA CAVALLERI:  
Yeah, I like color.  You can match with every color.
Q.  Silvia, were you affected be the wind today, this afternoon?  You know, were you compensating for that, taking it into a consideration a little bit later when it started to kick up?
SILVIA CAVALLERI:  It was always tough when we play in the wind, especially this course.  There were some holes between the trees.  The wind swirling around.  It is always tough to play in the wind, especially here.  The greens are getting very hard.  There is not a lot of room where you can hit the green and stay on the green.
Q.  Tell us a little bit more about the several woods you hit in to 7.  What kind of yardage did you have there?
SILVIA CAVALLERI:  
I hit a good shot aimed right where I wanted.  I was like 199 to the front.  The pin was I think, 12, a very short one.  It was downwind.  I hit just right in front of the green.  It came up little bit and rolled on the green pin high.
Q.  Do you look at the pairings sheet and go, "1:50 in the afternoon, this is not a good tee time"?
SILVIA CAVALLERI:  
No, I get used to it.  Very seldom do I have good tee times.  I am used to the later tee times.  Very later in the afternoon you have to play sometimes no matter when.  Everybody has to play.
Q.  Do you prefer early or late?
SILVIA CAVALLERI:  I prefer later.
Q.  Especially when you are playing well and on a roll, you get to get out there tomorrow morning?
SILVIA CAVALLERI:  
Yes, it is well.  If you make the cut you have more time to practice, relax and rest instead of just going out straight the next morning.
Q.  So given the windy conditions and given that the course was an big of an unknown factor because of all the changes, did you exceed expectations today?  Did you surprise yourself with your successes a little bit?
SILVIA CAVALLERI:  
Yes, of course.  But I know I am playing well.  I am playing better and better.  So I know I am a better player than I was last year.  So I kind of take whatever comes round by round.  I am not afraid anymore.
Q.  When you started Annika had just finished and shot 76, did you know that?
SILVIA CAVALLERI:  
I had no idea.
Q.  Does that surprise you?
SILVIA CAVALLERI:  
Every round of golf, I mean the ball can go everywhere.  It is surprising yes, because it is Annika.  I am sure she will come strong tomorrow.  She is just learning the course.  Probably it is tough, the windy condition to really judge the club selection.  It is just a matter of her knowing more the course.
Q.  How many languages do you speak through fluently?
SILVIA CAVALLERI:  
Four, almost five.
Q.  That would be?
SILVIA CAVALLERI:  Of course Italian, English, French, German and a little Spanish.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Do we have any more questions?
Q.  Tell me how to say "199 yards" in all five languages.  No, I am just kidding.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Thank you, guys.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT