NEW HAVEN OPEN AT YALE
August 23, 2013
Klara Zakopalova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KVITOVA/K. Zakopalova
  6‑0, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Seems like you were just never able to get into a rhythm.   She took the match right from the get‑go, never let you have a chance.   
KLARA ZAKOPALOVA:   Well, she just played fantastic tennis today without any mistakes.   I think everything was working for her, so I have to just congratulate her, wish her good luck because she was the better player today, for sure.   
   
 Q.   Do you still have a lot of confidence after making this run to the semifinals going into next week?  
KLARA ZAKOPALOVA:   Well, I have to forget this match because it doesn't matter who is on the other side with Petra today, I think.   So it gives me a lot of confidence, this tournament, for sure.   I played a great three matches.   
I hope it's going to work for me in US Open.   
   
 Q.   What is it about Petra?   When she's playing well, looks like she can beat anybody.   
KLARA ZAKOPALOVA:   Sure, she can beat anybody with this game.   She's playing really flat and fast.   She's serving good, moving good.   There's no mistakes at all today.   
   
 Q.   Did you find the conditions difficult?   You caught the ball toss a few times.   
KLARA ZAKOPALOVA:   Well, I finished yesterday at 9:30 at night, so I was a little bit tired, too.   But that's not an excuse.   
The conditions were same, so there is no excuse.   
   
 Q.   You played her twice six years ago when she was just coming up.   What's changed about her game?   
KLARA ZAKOPALOVA:   She's serving really good.   She's serving much more better than six years ago, for sure.   She's moving really good.   
   
 Q.   Do you play Fed Cup with her?   Do you consider yourselves good friends?  
KLARA ZAKOPALOVA:   Yeah, yeah, she's a good friend.   She's a very nice girl.   She's achieve a lot and she's still the same Petra.   She's a nice girl.  
   
 Q.   When is the first time you remember meeting on the court or in practice?  
KLARA ZAKOPALOVA:   Well, when I played against her for the first time, I thought, Wow, she can be a really good player because she played really fast and flat.   I thought that she's going to be very good player when I first met her.   She impressed me a lot the first time I saw her.   
   
 Q.   When it gets to a point in the match, I think you won three points in the second set before your service game that you won, do you change your goals?   Do you say, I want to win one game?  
KLARA ZAKOPALOVA:   Well, I think it's not important to win one game or not.   I just tried to fight for every point, like all match.   Luckily I won one game.   
   
 Q.   You got a nice reaction from the crowd.   Was that a nice feeling for you?  
KLARA ZAKOPALOVA:   Well, the people were really nice.   They know that I was not playing the best tennis and she was playing the best tennis.   
They were really nice with me.   
   
 Q.   Going into the Open as a seeded player, is that special to you?   Does that matter to you at all?  
KLARA ZAKOPALOVA:   What do you mean?   
   
 Q.   You're seeded 31.   
KLARA ZAKOPALOVA:   Yeah, it's really advantage in Grand Slam to be seeded.   But everybody's playing very good.   It's going to be tough.   I'm playing against Taiwanese girl.   She's 40 in the world.   So it's tough.  
   
 Q.   You've never had a lot of luck at the US Open.   Is it difficult conditions?   Is it there something you don't care for about the tournament?  
KLARA ZAKOPALOVA:   I don't know what's happen, but it's 0‑9 in US Open.   I don't know why.   
I'm not focused there.   I don't know.   I try to change something this year (laughter).   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT