RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
July 31, 2016
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Home of the 71 today, looking like a very strong Top-10 finish once again here, 21 years after your first victory.  How would you assess your week, being back at Woburn?  
KARRIE WEBB: It's been a long time since I've actually been in contention since the Australian Open at the beginning of the year.  Woburn must have brought a little bit of magic back to my game this week.   
I played pretty solidly.  The putter was a bit cold today but overall my putting was a lot better this week, which that's all I've been waiting for because I've been swinging it quite nicely and it's been good to see a few putts go in.  I would have obviously liked to see a few more go in, but I'm happy with the week.   
 Q.  You've got seven of these titles already.  Does this give you a bit of heart that there might still be one or two more in the locker?  
KARRIE WEBB: Well, I still believe that.  Sometimes when you're not playing great, it's hard to see it.  But deep down I know that I still have the game to compete and I have chances to win major.  It's just getting myself there and giving myself a chance.   
 Q.  Twenty years ago you played in your first major championship as a professional in 1996.  You finished in the top five at the ANA Inspiration, and after today's 71 you may well finish in the top five in this major championship.  What is the secret to such longevity?  
KARRIE WEBB: Well, I love the game deep down.  I think you have your low moments with the game.  But deep down, I still think I'm competitive and have chances to win.   
It's nice to finally see that I did have a chance this week, and to see the hard work pay off a little bit.   
 Q.  And I know it has been a frustrating season for you.  How nice is it to have posted four good rounds here this week?  
KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, really good. I don't remember the last time I had four under-par rounds.  It's been nice to play solidly.  It's been good to see some putts go in this week.  Putter was a little colder today but all in all, saw a lot of good things this week.   
 Q.  You're a seven-time Major winner, World Golf Hall of Fame, and now at the age of 41 -- is age just a number for you?  
KARRIE WEBB: Well I've been told I was a veteran at 29, so I don't know what you could call me now at 41.   
You know, I don't feel like what I used to think 41 was when I was 21, but I still feel like I'm in good shape and that I'm definitely physically able to play the game.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT