STANFORD INTERNATIONAL PRO-AM
April 27, 2008
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Talk about your round. Pretty good round. Awesome number. 
 KARRIE WEBB: Yeah. I'm very happy with it obviously. You know, I hit the ball good again and actually made some putts today, so it was really nice.

 Q. (Indiscernible.)
 KARRIE WEBB: I thought it was if I put it all together. Obviously I did that, which, you know, I got off to a great start getting, you know, 2 through 6. 
 So, you know, I played really solid and the putter felt great in my hands, which, you know, is the first time in a couple months. 

 Q. Did you change anything putting?
 KARRIE WEBB: No. Like I said, I've been hitting some good putts this week and just not -- either misreading them or (indiscernible) a little bit, you know. And I just went out there today and, you know, when they start going in, you know, you get a good feel and you feel like you can make some putts.

 Q. (Indiscernible.)
 KARRIE WEBB: Well, obviously it's a good finish for me. I doubt I'll be in a playoff, but I don't think you can count on Annika and Paula stumbling coming in. So, you know, I would have liked to make the one on the last, but, you know, I feel great about things. 
 As much as, you know, I've been down on myself, I knew that if I could get my putter going it just sort of goes to the rest of your game. 
 Like I know my swing's been close, but when you feel like you can't make putts then you can't go at pins because you (indiscernible) and you don't get up and down. So, you know, it's a good start. Hopefully, there's more to come. 

 Q. Was there a point after the second or third birdie went in where you thought, Where were these earlier in the week?
 KARRIE WEBB: No. I try not to think too much about it and just shoot as well as I could. Obviously on the back 9 I knew I had a chance. Probably wasn't as free flying as I would've liked it. But, you know, just to shoot 64, you know, I know that I have it in me. It's just a matter of putting it all together. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT