ADT CHAMPIONSHIP
November 17, 2007
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Talk about your round. 
 KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah, very satisfying.  You know, pretty much from the 1st to -- I mean, the 18th obviously, I hit a poor tee shot.  But from the 1st today I played very solidly, just happy that I could make bogey at the last and not have to stress too much about it. 

 Q.  Technically you're sleeping on the lead.  How will it be different?  There will be eight people sleeping on the lead.  What's it going to be like tonight? 
 KARRIE WEBB:  I think you don't really worry about it.  It's just 18 holes tomorrow, depending on what weather we get.  I think today the course was set up rather easy.  I think they had most of the easy pins today because the scoring has been great.  The wind has dropped just in the last hour or so, but it was still blowing pretty good there through the front nine. 
 But depending on where the pins are tomorrow will depend whether or not you can go off at 5- or 6- or 7-under like Paula today.  I assume the course will be a little bit harder tomorrow, but it'll depend on the wind. 

 Q.  Did you play the same from the first shot or was there a point on the back nine where you started to play defense? 
 KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah, I was happy to get one at 15 and then I knew I'd totally be okay.  You can't really play 16, 17 and 18 too defensively.  I think that's when it jumps up and grabs you.  I played them probably as defensively as I could without getting ridiculous. 
 And even though I played 18, I hated the fact that I was just really trying to hit it in the bunker.  If I snuck one to the right edge of it and onto the green I would have been happy.  It's fun, but it's a different mindset to play golf like that.  You know, but I guess if you're coming down the last in a tournament and you only need bogey to win, you'd probably play it that way, too. 

 Q.  Do you feel like the real golf tournament starts tomorrow? 
 KARRIE WEBB:  I guess so.  You play the last three holes the way you would play them depending on where you are and the position in the tournament.  You're not like, all right, well, I just don't want to be at 2-under today. 

 Q.  Does this all feel like Q-school?  I know it's been a while. 
 KARRIE WEBB:  No, there's nothing -- nothing compares to Q-school. 

 Q.  How hard can it be (laughter)? 
 KARRIE WEBB:  There's nothing compared to that.  People are in a good mood here.  People are not in a good mood at Q-school. 

 Q.  The difference between first place and third place, the payout here; you finished third here last year, 20 grand, that could be two shots? 
 KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah, I think it was only three shots for me last year.  You know, that's the way it is.  We know that going in. 
 Obviously last year I had such a great year, so third, 20 grand, well, it's no big deal because I had played so well.  But it would probably be a bit more bittersweet this year if that were to happen. 

 Q.  Do you do a bit more scoreboard watching tomorrow since there's there's essentially an eight-way tie right out of the chute, and you're going to have to be making these adjustments of either throttle up, throttle down, conceivably hole by hole? 
 KARRIE WEBB:  No, I think you just try and shoot as low as you can. 

 Q.  Straight all the way around? 
 KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah, because you can't throttle down.  Unless you come to 16 with a four-shot lead somehow, which -- unless you tear it up, I don't see that happening. 
 You know, I think you just play as aggressively as you can and as need be and decide what each shot calls for and try and shoot as low as you can.  That's the bottom line. 

 Q.  How would you grade your year so far and how would that grade change if you were to win tomorrow? 
 KARRIE WEBB:  I'd just be above like a C+ maybe.  You know, obviously I'd probably improve it to a B. 

 Q.  Do you think all the money should count toward the Money List, the million dollars? 
 KARRIE WEBB:  If I win it, yeah (laughter). 

 Q.  (Indiscernible.) 
 KARRIE WEBB:  I'd probably go in the second group. 

 Q.  Second group off? 
 KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah. 

 Q.  Because? 
 KARRIE WEBB:  I played in the second group today, and it was nice to be out there -- as long as you obviously get off to a good start you don't feel like you're playing catch-up.  I'll be picking -- hopefully I'll have one -- I don't know if I'll have the first pick, but one of the first few.  I'll pick one of the earlier times. 

 Q.  If you finish first or second you can pick whatever you want. 
 KARRIE WEBB:  Right.  I'll post a good score tomorrow and we'll see where it puts me. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT