RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
July 30, 2016
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Another good round today, 2-under, obviously you and Stacy played together, scored the same?  
KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, I didn't drive the ball as well today, so you know, I only made three birdies, but I managed to make some really good pars out there.  Bogeying the last is a little bit disappointing, but if I was in the fairway, I hit some pretty decent iron shots and I made some good putts and I made some good par putts today.   
So you know, it's a little disappointing to finish with a bogey and be eight shots behind.  Have to have a good day tomorrow.   
 Q.  Can you tell me a little bit about 18, what happened?  
KARRIE WEBB: Just wasn't a good swing with my 7-iron.  It was a good enough number, and just hit a bad chip and there's a damaged part of the green there, so I really didn't have much chance of making it.  Would have been lucky to make that I think.   
 Q.  21 years ago, you won here at Woburn, before this event was a major championship.  How nice is it to be reigniting some of the great memories on the same golf course this week?  
KARRIE WEBB: It's been fun.  I actually had to chip through two trees today but I was up near the green which I ended up getting up-and-down.  That was fun.   
But you know, I played pretty solidly.  I didn't drive the ball as well.  So it was hard to give myself a lot birdie opportunities, which I would have liked, because I was putting the ball nicely.  But I did manage to make some really good pars when I did miss some fairways and managed to bogey the last.   
 Q.  The average age of girls winning on the LPGA Tour is under 21 and a half years this season.  You and Catriona this year are going it for the over 40s.  How nice is it to be contending?  
KARRIE WEBB: It's fun.  It's been awhile since I've had a chance on the weekend, so it's good to be up there and I'll need a good one tomorrow.   
 Q.  It was a huge loss for you not to make it into the Australian Olympic Team.  Because of that, how much more do these major championships mean to you this season?  
KARRIE WEBB: I don't think they mean any more than they would have.  I want to play well in the majors regardless.  It's just nice that I'm finally playing well.  I feel like I've been close all year and my results really don't show that at all.  But you know, it's been nice to play some good golf and make some key putts when I needed to, which I haven't been doing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT