CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2007
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Karrie, thanks for coming in.  You kind of snuck up the leaderboard.  You were 1-under when you made the turn and then you just lit up that front nine, your back nine, with five birdies -- 
 KARRIE WEBB:  Six actually. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Six, I missed that one.  Sorry, but just a phenomenal round, you've got to be excited.  You're back playing in Alberta where you won the du Maurier back in 1999. 
 KARRIE WEBB:  I guess so.  I've had a lot of success in Canada.  I was reminded of it earlier this week.  Obviously I remember both my finishes here, but I didn't put it into the perspective that it was in Alberta. 
 My best round of the year by far from tee to green.  I've been waiting for this round for a few months, and it felt really good out there today to play such great shots off the tee and to the green and then to see some putts go in, as well. 

 Q.  You said yourself you were struggling with the putter.  Obviously not today.  Can you just go over some of the putts that you did make today? 
 KARRIE WEBB:  Do you just want to go over my card? 
 I teed off 10, so 13, I hit a 9-iron in there to about six or seven feet. 
 14, I was just short of the green in two and chipped it to about 20 feet and made the putt. 
 16, I hit a 6-iron on the green to about 35 feet and three-putted. 
 And then 1, I hit my 53-degree wedge to about 20 feet, made the putt. 
 3, I hit my 53-degree wedge there to about five feet. 
 4, I hit a 6-iron to about 18 feet probably. 
 6, I hit a wedge there to about eight feet. 
 8, I hit a 5-iron just on the left fringe there, holed about probably an 18-footer. 
 And 9, hit an 8-iron to about four feet. 

 Q.  I just asked Paula Creamer about how every golfer seemed to have a bit of a hiccup out there today and then you come in here without any hiccups.  How did you manage to stay in the moment knowing that you've been waiting for one of these rounds and maybe not get ahead of yourself and keep surging ahead? 
 KARRIE WEBB:  I think I was just -- I got really involved in each shot today, and that is something that I've been trying to do more of and I haven't been doing a very good job of it.  Just getting really involved in each shot and really enjoying the challenge.  This sounds really corny, but enjoying the challenge of the shot and just really going in there and believing that I can hit the shot because I know I can; it just involves a lot of trust and good focus. 
 I haven't struggled with that as much from tee to green, but once I've gotten on the green, I've struggled with that.  Obviously my putting hasn't been as good as I would have liked, but I've worked on a few things, and I think I was getting too involved with making sure that I was lined up correctly rather than just letting the feel -- my natural feel take over and allowing that to happen naturally.  I've been trying to do that a little bit this week, and it really paid off well today. 

 Q.  The course record, does that mean anything to you?  How many do you have? 
 KARRIE WEBB:  I don't know how many I have, but it's very nice to -- it's a very nice honor to have obviously.  I had 29 on the front nine, my back nine.  I've only done that a few times in my career, so that's a nice bonus, as well. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you, Karrie.  Great round, and good luck this weekend. 
 KARRIE WEBB:  Thank you. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT