MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 9, 2007
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PAM WARNER:  Karrie, thanks for coming in and joining us.  You're currently at 8-under and two shots off the lead.  Just talk about how you played and the position you're in. 
 KARRIE WEBB:  Well, obviously it was an extremely testing day today.  The course played a lot different to what it had the first few days.  It's dried out a lot and then the wind was from the opposite direction, obviously quite strong. 
 You know, I hit the ball really well again today.  I think that the thing that I'm most proud of today was how I kept myself composed.  I missed a couple of short putts on the front nine, had some chances that I didn't make, two 3-putts, and I was able to keep myself calm enough and play a really solid back nine and make a couple of putts, some key par putts, as well. 
 So, you know, I feel proud of myself for doing that and it's obviously giving me a chance to win tomorrow. 

 Q.  Was it difficult with the shadows out there? 
 KARRIE WEBB:  That was definitely tough.  And also with the sun getting as low as it was, you could see how bumpy the greens were getting late in the day, and obviously it had grown a lot since 6 o'clock, since they cut them. 
 So trying to work out the pace and trying not to see too many of the bumps was another trick. 

 Q.  Obviously you have a lot of experience in these situations, and the other players at the top of the board don't.  Is that an advantage for you, or are they so young and oblivious that they don't understand the magnitude? 
 KARRIE WEBB:  I guess a little bit of both.  Obviously I do have the experience, and I think that experience held me in good stead today, just to keep myself patient and to know that no one is really going to run away with it. 
 The young kids that you see, you see them doing well every week and winning and competing each and every week. 
 So, you know, I think sometimes ignorance is bliss, so we'll see which pays off tomorrow. 

 Q.  Do you know anything about the leader? 
 KARRIE WEBB:  No, I don't. 

 Q.  Do you recognize the name? 
 KARRIE WEBB:  No. 

 Q.  You played with you is Suzann today, and she had a few big holes where she lost her drive, and you were fairly consistent.  Is there anything that you noticed about her game that will come with maturity? 
 KARRIE WEBB:  Suzann has got a really solid game.  I said yesterday, she changed coaches I think at the end of the year, and that's been best thing for her.  I mean, she is definitely very physically gifted and she swings the club really well and is a really good ball-striker.  She hit some quality shots today, she hit a couple of loose ones and really didn't get any breaks at all; when she hit the loose ones, she really paid the penalty for those loose shots.  She composed herself pretty well today and hung in there and shot 1-under, as well. 
 So, you know, if she plays similar golf to that tomorrow and doesn't get into trouble, she'll have a really good chance of winning. 

 Q.  You may not agree with this, but you did make some pretty big putts today; is there any one you were particularly pleased with or gave you any momentum? 
 KARRIE WEBB:  Probably my par putt on 12.  I hit a poor first long putt.  I had just birdied 10 and 11, and hit it about eight feet past probably and made the putt, six to eight feet past. 
 I don't know, they look longer when you're not making them. 

 Q.  The pace was pretty tedious out there; did that bother you? 
 KARRIE WEBB:  The pace of play?  Yeah, it was just a tough day.  You know, we had trouble keeping up early on the back nine.  We got into a bit of trouble but the last few holes we caught up, on 15 the group in front of us obviously had some sort of ruling there. 
 Obviously it's tough when it it's four and a half hours or whatever it was today, and it's also 7:15 at night when you're finishing up.  It's tough; you're not used to playing at that time of the day and trying to produce quality golf. 
 So I'm just glad I got in the way I did.  Obviously I made a good putt on 17 for par and played 18 pretty solidly as well. 

 Q.  Do you sense at all that the focus on this tournament has finally shifted towards the golf? 
 KARRIE WEBB:  Well, fortunately, I didn't speak to you guys; I didn't have the pleasure at the beginning of the week, so I wasn't really caught up in all that stuff.  I didn't really know about it until I was in here -- I mean, I knew about it, but I didn't know what was said; she said, she said. 

 Q.  What would you have said?  (Laughter). 
 KARRIE WEBB:  I would have said I don't know what's going on. 
 I was glad I wasn't involved with it.  You know, it is good that the tournament's turning out to be, you know, a pretty great -- there's a lot of great players up there with a chance to win tomorrow.  It's going to be really exciting. 

 Q.  How deep do you think the board is for those who have a chance? 
 KARRIE WEBB:  Well, I think it's supposed to be pretty similar conditions tomorrow.  It supposed to be breezy again.  Maybe not quite as breezy today, but I think anyone at 4- or 5-under probably has a chance.  I mean, you know, I saw -- I shouldn't say the leader, I don't know what her full name is, but Min shot 7-under today, so obviously there's a score out there like that. 

 Q.  Are you more curious about who that was or how anybody could shoot 65 on a day like that? 
 KARRIE WEBB:  I didn't know that she had shot that until I was on 18 and that she started on 3.  And really -- like you were saying about the putt on 2 that I made for birdie, but after I got off to the start I did, it's Saturday and the conditions were going to be tough, I didn't want to try and press to keep up to the lead, because it was just going to be too hard to play golf like that. 
 So even though I was paying attention to the leaderboard, I was really just trying to take care of myself and make every shot count and try to shoot as low as I could. 

 Q.  Were you having trouble with the pace of the greens at all?  I notice you left a few putts short. 
 KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah, I don't know necessarily if it's -- I think it's just the way I've been putting right now.  I'm not putting with tons of confidence.  I'm not getting good feels on the longer putts. 
 I think my biggest mistake today was I came out early and I putted on the chipping green, and before I played I putted on the bowling green that's running about two feet faster than the rest of the greens.  So I think that's why I struggled the first few holes with speed. 

 Q.  You think the main putting green is running two feet faster? 
 KARRIE WEBB:  It definitely was today. 

 Q.  So you should have stuck with the chipping green. 
 KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah, I might be going back to that green tomorrow.  (Laughter). 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT