KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 29, 2007
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  You played really well   
 KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah, just a poor tee shot on 16.  Really, I didn't hit too many poor shots out there today.  Really a solid round.  I didn't make tons of putts.  But, obviously, to open with 2-under is really solid, I'm happy with it.   
  
  Q.  What inspired you to create that wonderful TV moment there (on 18)?   
 KARRIE WEBB:  Well, obviously just wanted to give myself a good chance.  It's a hard hole to get a good lay-up number.  I got lucky.  Hit a really good sand wedge.  Hit a great shot.  It helped to see Lorena's came up off that slope.  I knew I could fire directly at the pin and it was going to stop.   
  
  Q.  And the club (on 18), was that spur of the moment, you're sense of humor?   
 KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah.  Just being a bit sarcastic saying, 'Damn, it didn't go in the hole.' (laughter)   
  
  Q.  We're going to start expecting some kind of reaction; you're two-for-two now on that hole.   
  
  Q.  No one shot a really low score today.  Is the course playing pretty tough?   
 KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah, the greens are really hard and the rough is really long.  If you're not hitting the fairway, you're in trouble to start with.   
 The greens are so hard, you just think the putt's got to be really good to get it near the pin.   
  
  Q.  You have to be happy with 2-under.   
 KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah, really solid round, like I said, very happy with 2-under.   
  
  Q.  We had some gusts out here, but not awful.  We had a 10-under last year from Lorena on the first day, a couple 66s; and 3-under, today.  What's the biggest difference?   
 KARRIE WEBB:  A little bit of length.  I think the greens are just hard.  They're Sunday-hard right now.  I think they're going to have to watch it a little bit so they don't get ridiculous and unplayable.   
 It's funny, as hard as they are, you'd think they'd be super fast.  You're really looking at a really hard, brown, shiny surface.  I left quite a few putts short out of there, so the speed's not there for as hard as they are.   
  
  Q. Annika and a couple players said the length did made a difference, it is noticeable.  How much did it affect your play?   
 KARRIE WEBB:  For me, pretty much on the par-4s that they've lengthened, or any of the holes off the tee that they've lengthened, it just takes the decision away from me.  I can hit driver now, where (last year) I had to think 3-wood, driver, depending on the wind.  So now I pretty much can just stand up and hit shots.  It hasn't really changed the way I play the course a whole lot.   
  
  Q.  Do you know why you're still leaving some of them were short?   
 KARRIE WEBB:  We played on faster greens last week, I think.  They're not as fast as they have been in the past.  Especially looking the way they look, they look like they should be fast.   
  
  Q.  If Lorena wins, she could become number one in the world.  You're not too far away either.   
 KARRIE WEBB:  I guess I must not be.  I didn't realize that.  No, we were pretty close last week when she won.   
  
  Q.  Either way, you're elevating as well.   
 KARRIE WEBB:  I mean, obviously it's something you work toward.  Like Lorena says, too, you don't really think about it.  I haven't really paid attention to it.   
 I only knew that if Lorena won this week, she'd go to number one only through another interview that I did.  I don't think I knows exactly how the system, how the points work.  If you're number one, two, three, four, that's just what you're told and that's where you are.   
  
  Q.  Just to confirm, 82-yards today with a sand wedge?   
 KARRIE WEBB:  Yes   
  
  Q.  And last year 116 was a pitching wedge?   
 KARRIE WEBB:  Yes.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT