RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
July 29, 2016
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Another strong round today, building on yesterday.  Can you talk me through your highlights?  
KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, I played the front nine really well.  Turned 4-under.  Gave myself some chances and hit some really good putts.  And then the back nine, I just -- the greens are just a little bit inconsistent with the bounce.  Like some holes, they are like a huge bounce and release.   
So it was hard to get close to the pin.  It was a few times I hit good shots and it didn't release and so I had 40-footers instead of maybe 15-footers.  So just didn't have as many birdie opportunities.  I just made a crappy bogey on 11, but I had chances coming in.  But it was nice to make that 8-footer on the last for par, and that was.   
 Q.  So you didn't feel like you had the best of the day in terms of the greens?  
KARRIE WEBB: Putting-wise probably.  But as far as -- we would have thought that all of them would have been a little bit soft.  Like early on, the first three greens were really firm, and then on the fourth, we're waiting for that big bounce and then it stops.  They were just a little bit inconsistent.   
But when I wasn't close, I 2-putted really well.  I didn't hit as good of putts when I had birdie chances on the back nine but I hit a lot of good putts today.   
 Q.  You were talking yesterday, you're still building on the feelings that you had 21 years ago.  Can you talk a little bit more about that?  
KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, I think it was good to go back to that tree and just revisit some good memories and reflect on things.  I've had a very positive feel about the place this week, even though I got in Monday, I feel like I settled in pretty quickly.   
 Q.  Would you say you're being more carefree, more risky?  
KARRIE WEBB: I don't know, maybe a little bit more carefree, a little less -- I'm trying to be less concerned about outcome and just hit good shots.  But my swing feels really good and actually seeing some putts go in, the putter feels good in my happened.   
 Q.  So it's not about being conservative in your choices; it's more about feeling relaxed as you play.  
KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, trusting yourself and hitting the shot you see, and if you don't pull it off, you don't pull it off, but not worry about not pulling it off.   
 Q.  And if you face a four-foot gap in the trees, do you go for it?  
KARRIE WEBB: We'll have to see.  If I have a four-shot lead, probably not.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT