WENDY'S CHAMPIONSHIP FOR CHILDREN
August 23, 2006
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAUL ROVNAK:  Karrie, thanks for coming in you had a terrific year so far with three victories in three of our biggest tournaments.  We know you have a pro am tee time coming up so we'll make this as quick as possible for you.

Talk about your year so far and then coming back to the Wendy's Championship for Children.
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, obviously it's been a great year.  I'm very happy with it.  Obviously it's been a lot of hard work.  I'm very pleased the hard work has given me some really good results.  And I look forward to playing this week.  I've played here a couple of times and played well the last couple of years, so I'm looking forward to hopefully a good tournament.
Q.  Talk about the hard work.
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, it's been a work in progress, really.  I've been working on similar things for a couple of years and felt last year that physically my game was good enough to play well.  I probably didn't putt as well as I would have liked to.  I did a little bit of mental work last year and the beginning of this year and it finally clicked in to where I was able to trust my game out on the golf course.
Q.  You had a really good round in Portland on Sunday.  Talk about what happened in that last round and whether you see that carrying over into this week.
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, hopefully it carries over into this week.  My    well, one of my coaches, Ian Triggs, from Australia is here this week.  I felt like I probably needed a little bit of    well, a second set of eyes looking at my swing and just give me that reassurance that things are good, and some positive thoughts.

Last week, I think the 66 is just a matter that I played at 8:30 in the morning and not a lot of pressure on me and just went out and played a little freer than I did the first three days.
Q.  Did Ian come over during Portland or did he come over after?
KARRIE WEBB:  He got here Monday.
Q.  The success you've had and all the victories you've had, what drives you at this point in your career?
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, as old as everyone thinks 31 is, I still feel I have quite a few years left to play.  What drives me is that I don't want to be one of the players out here to make up the field.  Fortunately, golf has been good enough for me that I don't want to just be making up the numbers, I want actually be competing and have a chance to win every week.
Q.  How do you handle the    I don't know if it's a dilemma between playing with younger players, maybe wanting to give them advice and help them along and yet knowing they are the competition and you want to beat them.  How does that tie together?
KARRIE WEBB:  I don't think it really that hard of a situation.  I think that certain players that have the respect for the game to know that winning 33 times out here isn't easy.  They're the players that you can tell will come to you.  I don't think    I was never a player that    you know, I asked a few questions.  And I don't think many players    golf is not a game that you feel like    well, I don't like when people give me advice when I'm not asking for it.  There are a lot of young players out there that I feel if they want advice would come to me and I would gladly like to help them on because it's only good for our tour if they play good.
Q.  Did you get a chance to play a practice round?
KARRIE WEBB:  I played nine holes yesterday.
Q.  It's been a relatively dry summer lately in Columbus and I wondered if the course is playing dry or if they're putting some water on it to make it play a little longer and make the greens softer.
KARRIE WEBB:  Yes, it's as wet as it is every other year when it has been raining a lot, which is a shock to everybody.  It kind of looks like they let it go through the summer and they have some dead patches in the fairways and then put too much water on them late and now have kind of a fungus growing in places.  It's probably the best shape I've seen the course in, but it's probably still going to play similar to what it has in the past.
Q.  The first year they had the tournament here they played it dry and fast.  Do you have a preference?
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, I don't think it's ever fair to play a course that you're picking mud off the ball.  It's very hard to explain    well, you can't explain to people out there watching why your 4 iron veered 45 degrees off line when you felt you hit a pretty good shot.

I think the course will be fine by the time we play, but it was pretty soggy yesterday.  There are some spots out there that they are either have to mark GUR or I don't know maybe play it up on a couple of holes, I'm not sure.

PAUL ROVNAK:  Thanks, Karrie.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT