HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 7, 2006
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DANA GROSS RHODE:  We have Karrie Webb in the interview room.  You just went 5 & 4 again Gloria Hee Jung Park.  Do you just want to talk about your day and the short round?
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, I was 1 down after two and really started swinging it well.  I think I made five birdies from then on and Gloria made another birdie and made one other bogey.  It was very, very good play the last two days have been for me, so I feel very good about it.
Q.  When you come into a tournament like this with all of the focus on Michelle and Annika, does that get you going in the sense that, "I want to show them what I can do, too?"
KARRIE WEBB:  No.  I know how good I can play.  I haven't    I've made a point of not looking at the draw and just finding out who I play next once I win my match.  Obviously at some stage in the tournament if they are still in it and I'm still in it, I'm going to have to play one or both of them at some stage.
Q.  Can you just talk about match play, is it more relaxed or just the difference from stroke play?
KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah, I don't know if it's more relaxed or not.  You're obviously more concerned about what your playing partner is doing.

I guess it's sort of like the fourth round, Sunday round of a tournament when there's only really two of you left in the tournament, I guess is what it feels like; when you're really paying attention to whether or not they are making    you know, what they are putting for.  And if, you know, a perfect example is on the sixth hole, Gloria short sided herself and I hit to the middle of the green and 2 putted for par and won the hole.  So if you're playing stroke play on a Friday round, you're not going to bear that far left because she short sided herself because it doesn't really matter what she's doing on Friday.

Obviously you just pay a lot more attention, so that sometimes determines what you're doing out there.  You know, you've still got to hit good shots and on a course like this, you've got to make birdies to win.
Q.  Have you looked at who you're playing next, Pat Hurst?
KARRIE WEBB:  That will be a friendly match at least.
Q.  She may be a bit tired.
KARRIE WEBB:  I'm sure she is.  But Pat has played very well this year and obviously played very well last week.  Even though she is probably tired, is quite anxious to keep playing well and have a chance to win this week.
Q.  Is this course fitting your game right now?
KARRIE WEBB:  Actually this is some of my best golf I played all year last year.  I really, obviously, it's a free for all off the tee.  You're not really overly concerned about    well, there's no tight driving holes.  The tightest one is the first hole and once you get past there, you're fine.  It breaks it up to hit different shaped shots and I have good visuals to the targets.  I really get to see the shots.  I'm really visualizing the shots very well.

I think with that, that sort of gets you into the mode where when you're visualizing shots you need to hit, you don't concern yourself with technique because you've got such a good feel for it.



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT