MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 10, 2006
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
Talk about your back nine.
KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah, I had quite a few chances early on, 11, 10, 11, 12, and didn't make them.  And then made one on 13.

Then another couple.  So it was nice.

I really struggled around the front side.  So I'm pretty happy just to shoot even.
Q.  Tell us what happened on 2.
KARRIE WEBB:  With Annika?
Q.  Yeah.
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, I saw her remove part of a divot next to a filled, like a replaced divot.  It was a little bit.  And I wasn't going to say anything.  And then I hit my lay up and I looked over again and she removed the rest of it.  And I just know you can't do that.  And I, I was either going to feel bad for calling it on her or feel bad if she won by one and whoever finished second and I didn't say something.  So that's why I said something.
Q.  She moved both pieces?  I only saw the second.  She said I think the ball was to the right?
KARRIE WEBB:  I think the second piece was up against the ball, from what she said to Angus.
Q.  Was there any question about the penalty?
KARRIE WEBB:  No, I don't think so.  I don't know if she was aware of the ruling or what.
Q.  Did that rattle you at all?
KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah, a little bit, because I don't like to have to do that.  It's not any fun.
Q.  Did it take you awhile to settle back down again?
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, I was a little thrown off the way I played the first hole to start with and then having to do that too.  So, yeah, it took me awhile to settle down.  And I was trying not to get mad.  I didn't feel comfortable on the golf course.  I just, with my swing and stuff.  The first nine holes I didn't feel comfortable.

I hit a really good tee shot on nine and then a good one on 10.  And then after that I hit a few good iron shots as well.
Q.  You were right there.  Would you have thought that coming through say 7 or so?  I mean, did you feel like you were chipping away?
KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah, I was hoping that I could find something to hang in there.  I kept telling myself that I was still only six, seven behind and if I could get back to 4  or 5 under, that I didn't think more than 7 or 8 would probably be leading at the end of the day.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT