RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
July 28, 2016
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Lovely to see you again, and back where it kind of all started for you.  How special is Woburn for you, and why?  
KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, this is where it all started, 21 years ago, as a 20-year-old though, I was fortunate enough to win around here.  Not this course obviously.  It's been a long time since we've been here and for me it's I think good timing to be back here and sort of reminisce how it all started.   
 Q.  Is this challenge as relevant as some of the links courses you've been playing in the last few years and is it nice to come back and play parkland and heathland again?  
KARRIE WEBB: I don't think if it's the same challenge.  I think you battle the elements a little bit more on a links course, and I think we are used to playing that.  But this is a lovely golf course and a different challenge.  I only got to see the golf course once, which was yesterday.  So what was good for me was that I couldn't get ahead of myself because I couldn't remember what the next hole was.   
So it was my second look today and I felt like I did pretty well just with that scenario being second look.   
 Q.  I was chatting away earlier, it cannot be 21 years since Karrie won around here.  I represent you in your wraparound shades fearlessly going for it back then, and since then, you've gone on to be one of the greatest players we've seen in the women's game, seven majors.  When you look back on your career, what do you feel most satisfied about in your life?  
KARRIE WEBB: Well, I mean, really, it's just a dream come true.  I was telling Johnny that when I won here 21 years ago, at 20, you never get ahead of yourself because you're so in the moment.  It wasn't until I got to the 18th tee with such a large tee that I backed off like three times because I couldn't believe I was going to win the British Open.   
And to have achieved what I have since then, it's my wildest dreams come true.   
 Q.  What changes do you see from the Marquess Course to the course you won?  
KARRIE WEBB: We always played the Duke's really dry and brown, so how green it is, is a change.  Up until about three weeks ago, I was visualising it being burnt and dried out.  But Charley had told us that it was wet and green, so I knew coming here, it wasn't going to be what I expected.  It's a good challenge but I think scores are going to be shot this week.  I think you're going to have to be under par every day.   
 Q.  And sort of in terms of similarities, and having won here at Woburn, does it give you a tiny bit of an edge, even though it's a while ago, but still.  
KARRIE WEBB: It has given me obviously the good feelings.  Just to think back to how I played as a 20-year-old and was fearless, and to try and emulate that a little bit more than worrying about outcome and what I'm shooting.   
 Q.  Did you try to hit the shot yesterday on 16 from 21 years ago when you won?  
KARRIE WEBB: The tree, the gap I hit it through, it was like a fork of the tree was about six, seven feet wide.  I just got up there and hit 7-iron through there, and it was dry and burned out, so it ran up on to the green.  I didn't think anything of it.  But I guess all the Aussies, like Karen and Mardi Lunn were sitting in the clubhouse, and they are like:  What?  Just chip out sideways.   
So then I hit the shot through the trees and when I got done, they congratulated me, and they were like, what were you thinking on 16.  I wanted to go back there, because my memory is just that it's just this huge gap.   
So I went back there yesterday, one of the -- I just told Johnny the story about this tree, and they actually call it the Karrie Tree.  He said that he takes his guests over there all the time and says, "This is where she hit it."   
 Q.  How narrow was it?  
KARRIE WEBB: It's probably about four feet wide.  But now it's obviously, there's other trees now that have over grown in the gap.  It was a clear gap.  There wasn't any branches in the way.  Now there's branches there.  But it's still, like I said to Johnny, if we were standing here with a four-shot lead on Sunday, what would you be telling me to do?  And he said, "Chip out sideways."  If it had of been dry and brown 20 years ago, it wouldn't have gotten on the green again.   
 Q.  So many special memories here.  
KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, it's good to reflect.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT