MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 12, 2006
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
KARRIE WEBB:  I probably hit the ball better today than I did yesterday.  Just didn't make as many putts as yesterday but it was a really solid round of golf.
Q.  You have a defending champion hot on your heels.
KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah, I played with Cristie today obviously, and she played great, really solid and made a lot of birdies and finished with one on the last hole.
Q.  When is the last time you went wire to wire?
KARRIE WEBB:  I don't know, you guys can probably look that up.
Q.  Seemed like you made fewer mistakes today maybe.
KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah, I did.  I missed the last green so I only missed three greens today and I only missed a couple of fairways.  So it was probably a little less stressful today than it was yesterday, even though I was making the birdies.
Q.  What was it like seeing Annika struggle, or do you just really pay attention to your game out there?
KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah, obviously she was struggling a little bit but I was just trying to keep to myself and try and, you know, play a little bit more solidly than I did yesterday.
Q.  Can you talk about your resurgence this year?
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, you know, it's just due to a lot of hard work and putting that ball in the hole a little quicker.
Q.  How exciting is it for you, though, as you're going through that to see it happening like that?
KARRIE WEBB:  Oh, it's great.  I think you appreciate it more the second time around.  I don't think, not that I didn't appreciate it the first time around, but I didn't know what it was like when you feel like you're pretty close and not putting the scores on the board.  I think I really appreciate it a lot more now.
Q.  What caused you to change your mental outlook so much?  It seemed like you used to put a lot of pressure on yourself, and now you're just kind of taking what comes.
KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah, I don't know, I think just maturity, just getting older and it's not as life or death anymore.
Q.  Can you talk about No. 10?  I guess three years running it seems to be playing as the toughest hole, and what is it about that hole?
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, it's a pretty long hole and the green sort of sits sideways from the fairway.  And especially where the pin was today, it's really hard to get back into that pin position.  The greens are firm enough, you're coming in mid  to long irons, and it's hard to get it back into that pin position and hold the green.  So you're either taking your chances or 2 putting from the middle of the green, or you try to go at it and see what happens from there.
Q.  Could you talk about maybe the 14th when you had that shot right next to the cart path, how relieving was it to see that it was not in that rough?
KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah, that was a very good break.  Obviously I ended up making birdie on the hole, so I don't know if I would have if I'd have been in the rough.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT