FRANKLIN AMERICAN MORTGAGE CHAMPIONSHIP
May 3, 2006
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAM WARNER:  Karrie, in the past three events you have gone first, second, second which is your best streak since 2000 and you were also sixth here last year.  Can you talk about your season and coming back here?
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, obviously the last month or so has been really good.  I've worked pretty hard to get those results.  It's fun being out on the golf course and seeing the ball go in more than it has been.

And then to be back here in the Nashville area, it's really exciting.  I've always played pretty well here and looking forward to this week.
Q.  Coming off the Kraft and compared to how you played last year, how much confidence does that breed?
KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah, it's definitely given me that little boost of confidence that I needed.  I feel confident going on the golf course because I feel I can still get my score going in the right direction during a round, just because I've seen some results in the last few weeks.
Q.  Obviously you've won almost everywhere, you said you've been close here before and you've played well here before, does it make you want to win this one, because this is maybe one you haven't and you target it a little bit?
KARRIE WEBB:  I think I try to win every week, so I don't necessarily think I target this one any more than the rest.  But I have had a good few finishes here and I feel pretty good on the course.  So, you know, I'd like to give myself a chance again like I have the last couple weeks and do one better than the last couple of weeks.
Q.  You've won already more money than you did all last year, what happened during the off-season or this year, have you changed equipment or training, or what's made the big difference this year in your game?
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, I think it's more of a timing thing.  I did work really hard in the off-season.  I wasn't pleased with my year last year, so I didn't have as much of an off-season as I have had the last couple of years.

You know, conditioning-wise, I worked harder.  I've been doing that anyway, but everything was done -- a little bit more time was put into everything.  You know, I still started the year off a little more slower than I would have liked after all the hard work I've put in.  You know, it just takes one shot going in the hole to give that you boost of confidence to keep it going.
Q.  Is there any specific area of your game you were focusing on or were just trying to work on everything from driving to putting?
KARRIE WEBB:  Pretty much everything.  I think my swing has been good enough to play well for a couple of years.  You know it's a work-in-progress, but definitely what I was seeing in practice was definitely good enough to compete week-in and week-out.

I think my putting had been letting me down.  I wasn't making enough putts, and that changed, seeing more putts inside ten feet going in and just have a little bit more confidence in that area.  I think when you see putts going in, you don't feel like -- if you're not making any putts, you feel like you can't make any mistakes anywhere else in your game and you can't play with a lot of trust.
Q.  Was there a point last year where it got pretty low and you didn't know if you could get it back to where it once was?
KARRIE WEBB:  No, I don't think so, because I saw what I was doing in practice.  It's more a putting issue and a mental issue OF not trusting and going out there and not putting pressure on myself and going out and doing it.

I was probably still doing that at the beginning of the year, but it changed the way I saw it a little bit mentally, and you know, just begin to trust it.  Obviously I put myself into contention at the Nabisco, and you know, I think I feel once I get myself into contention, that's where I feel most comfortable.  I was trying so hard to get myself into that position, I couldn't get myself there.

So, you know, in the last two weeks, it's probably been a little bit easier on me because I feel like the monkey is off my back as far as win-wise goes.  It was an amazing end to the tournament and something that I'll never forget.  It's made the last couple of weeks.
Q.  How often have you thought about the shot on 18?
KARRIE WEBB:  I don't think a day has gone by that I haven't thought about it.  I don't know how long that will last.  I do think about it, especially when I pull a wedge out on the course.
Q.  You say it's a work-in-progress, how near are you to the end?
KARRIE WEBB:  I don't think any professional golfer ever finds the end.  You're always working on your game in some areas, so it's just what you love and hate about this game.

So, you know, I think I'm a little ways off from playing my very best golf.  I feel like now I'm getting the job done and there's still some good golf to be played.
Q.  Are there any specifics that you need to do to win at this golf course, anything you need to do particularly well?
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, we always play this course wet, and it's wet again this year.  It's not as much of a premium of driving the fairways, it's pretty forgiving and then when they are wet, they are double the width.  So it really comes down to your iron play and making the putts.
Q.  With the weather forecast, do you have to start off with patience or do you have to try to take advantage if the conditions are good when you're out there to try to go as low as you can while it's dry?
KARRIE WEBB:  I guess so.  I think anyone who knows when they sign up to play this tournament knows that there's a good chance that we'll have a weather delay.  It's just that time of the year up here and the weather is either pretty good or, you know, we could have a storm.

I know coming in here that you're going to have to patience as far as delays and maybe possibly playing more than 18 holes in a day.  But that's just the way it is.  You just try and hope that you're switched on when it's your turn to play.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT