GINN CLUBS & RESORTS OPEN
April 30, 2006
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAUL ROVNAK:  Karrie, thanks for coming in and speaking with us.  We always appreciate your time.

Another top finish.  You had the win at Kraft Nabisco to tie for second last week, and a tie for second again this week.  You're playing some extremely good golf.  Talk about your day and we'll take some questions.
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, it was a really solid day.  Obviously a month ago I wouldn't have thought I would have been saying, Well, I left a couple out there.  But I'm very happy with the way I played today.  I think I only missed a couple of greens and gave myself a lot opportunities.

I was just a little disappointed I didn't get one or two more on the last holes.  A 67 today and it was windy today.  I gave myself a chance.  And Mi Hyun Kim started off a little slow today and made us think we had more of a chance than we did.
Q.  Tell me about your approach shot on 18.  Everyone seemed to have trouble getting up to that shelf.  Did you mis club or was it a matter of the wind?
KARRIE WEBB:  The wind was switching from really helping to crossing.  I didn't hit it as solid as I wanted, but I had a pretty good number to hit a full wedge to get up on top but it got caught in the wind a little bit and didn't make it up.
Q.  (No microphone.)
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, it hadn't just been off season work.  It's been the last couple of years really working pretty hard, just not seeing the results.  And at the end of last year I was pretty disappointed with the way I had played.  I just didn't take much time off and worked pretty hard on everything, conditioning and practicing.

At the start of the year, you know, I felt good and excited at the start of the year and I just didn't have it mentally.  That's probably what I fought the most.  I worked on that.

And it's amazing how one shot going in on 18 at Nabisco can really make you realize that you can go out there and trust it and the work that I have done is there and continue to keep doing that but that it's good enough to compete every week.
Q.  (No microphone.)
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, confidence always helps.  It helps to get rid of the doubt.  I did a really good job of that this week.  I opened with a 75.  And then yesterday made double on the first hole.  Three putted from three feet.  Well, I shot 10 under in the last 35 holes, and 13 under the last three rounds.  That was a really good job mentally because I knew my game was still there.  I played well last week and I just had to go out there and be more trusting.
Q.  (No microphone.)
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, I'm not surprised.  I knew I was really    well, like I've said a few times, I've learned the hard way what the fine line was between playing good and bad.  And at the moment I'm on the good side of the fine line.  Hopefully I can continue to stay there, continue to keep working hard.

But I don't think there is one    I don't think it's relief.  I'm just really enjoying putting myself in that position, and I'm not pressing.  I don't feel like I'm trying too hard.  I'm just going out there and trying to    I know it sounds a cliche, but take one shot at a time and really trust everything and not get too far ahead of myself.
Q.  Prior to the last 30 days and this great streak, were you playing better than you were scoring and couldn't translate it into red numbers?
KARRIE WEBB:  Yes, I wasn't putting very well.  So then I think when you putt poorly it's hard to trust anything else because you feel if you make one mistake swing wise you're not going to get it up and down.

I switched putters in Phoenix.  And since then    my goal in Phoenix, besides winning, was to have all four rounds of that tournament under par.  And I did, even though it was 2 under, 1 under, 1 under, 2 under, or something.  That was the first time in a long time out of six months I shot all rounds of the tournament under par.  And I made a good 20 footer on the last on the last day to do that.  It was there, it just needed a bit of a shove.
Q.  No. 1, I imagine it's been gratifying, the reactions that you've received since you've won and reasserted yourself from fans and such.  Comment on that.

And secondarily, if you can talk about Mi Hyun Kim coming out of a four year drought of not winning and talk about her strengths as a player.
KARRIE WEBB:  It's been a lot of fun.  The reaction of the fans, and I think a lot of people tuned in and watched that last round at Nabisco, or if they didn't they saw the highlights.  It's been fun to see their reactions.  I think a lot of people had the same reactions, that they jumped out of their chair on the TV when they saw it go in.

I was walking up 18 and the telecast was showing.  We had the Jumbotron on 18, and the telecast was showing my shot that went in on that last hole.  So Mike and I were reliving that as we were walking up the last.

It's definitely something that will stay with me forever.  Sometimes you need a turning point.  That's definitely a turning point in my career, as far as appreciating all the hard work I've done and enjoying the moment.

It is amazing Kimmy hasn't won for four years.  She's one of the most consistent Koreans out here on Tour and hits it straight, doesn't make a lot of mistakes.  I haven't played with her for a long time, but she's normally a pretty good putter and I'm sure everything came together for her this week.
Q.  The field is so diverse, especially if you look at the leaderboard.  You see people from all over the world.  From a competition standpoint, what does that diversity mean on the golf course?  And is it a good thing for the Tour?
KARRIE WEBB:  Yes, I think it's a great thing for the Tour.  I think we've always, since I've been on Tour, there's always been a great diversity and that's only gotten more so in the last few years.  I think what's so exciting too, the younger players coming up.  And there's a few young Americans that are up and coming and I think that makes it exciting for the Tour, as well.
Q.  At what point today did you look at the leaderboard and realize you had a pretty good chance at this thing?
KARRIE WEBB:  I think on the 7 green I was still only 6 under at the time, but Kimmy had gone back to 9 under and Lorena Ochoa birdied 7 to go 9 under.  So I knew that 3 shots really wasn't that much in the wind.  That's when I really started to think I had a chance.
Q.  A week here, this course, and this course in these conditions, the wind, what kind of challenge was that for you?  Obviously you overcame with 10 under, but what kind of challenge did it present this week?
KARRIE WEBB:  It was a tough challenge.  The only thing that saved us from probably 1 or 2 under winning was that the greens were receptive enough that when you're playing with that much wind it's hard to be very precise.  And on these greens you have to be pretty precise.  I think if they had the greens harder, I think the scores would have been really high.

Any course you play with a lot of wind is tough, but with the undulations on these greens and such you had to be on your own game to really give yourself a chance.
Q.  Kind of continuing that thought, I was interested in getting some feedback from you on what your impressions were from the whole week, since this is an inaugural event, first time in Florida, full field, and they threw a ton of money at this thing to give you guys all the bells and whistles.
KARRIE WEBB:  It's been a first class event.  I think all the girls have really enjoyed it.  A brand new event coming in at 2.5 million.  We're pretty excited.  It's exciting for the LPGA.  And the hospitality has been great and the course was in great shape, as well.  I hope this is a long term deal and I think it will be a great relationship.
Q.  Now that it's been a month of solid play not just the one win, are people going to remind you to enjoy yourself more this time to get back at the top.  Are you going to remember to enjoy yourself?
KARRIE WEBB:  I don't think everyone is going to have to remind me.

I love the fact that the hard work is paying off and I think the second time around after not playing so good for two years it just feels a little bit more rewarding because you know the hard work you've put in and hopefully it's finally paying off.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Take us over the scorecard.  Birdie on 4.
KARRIE WEBB:  I hit my 53 degree wedge there to about four feet.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Birdie on 9.
KARRIE WEBB:  9, I hit my 53 degree wedge there to about 18 feet.
PAUL ROVNAK:  11.
KARRIE WEBB:  11, I hit a 7 iron to 15 feet.

12, par 3, 9 iron to about 12 feet.

13, missed the green with a 7 iron in the right green side bunker, and I missed a 12 footer for par.

14, 8 iron to about 20 feet.

16, the par 3, 19 degree rescue to 15 feet.
Q.  (No microphone.)
KARRIE WEBB:  17, I missed the fairway left, punched out and laid it out a little too far into the rough, but I drew a fairly decent lie.  There was a lot of grass around my ball, but there was enough of a gap behind my ball to get a club on it, and I just killed a 53 degree wedge up there.

At that stage I was really right in between and, you know, if I tried to hit a little wedge out of that I would have had no control and I needed to make birdie.  So I put a good swing out of the rough there.  I don't know if I misread my putt there or pushed it a little bit, but it just hung out on the edge.
Q.  Bogey on 13    (No microphone.)
KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah, it did.  I had a funny lie to where the pin was and not a great number.  I hit it over that hump on Friday and I was taking the longer club and I just really didn't    that was one of the swings I didn't trust very well today and just bowed out on it to the right.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Thank you, Karrie.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT