GINN CLUBS & RESORTS OPEN
April 29, 2006
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What kind of number do you think you have to shoot to stay in contention?
KARRIE WEBB:  It depends on the wind.  I shot 3 under today.  We'll see in the morning what the wind is doing.
Q.  (Inaudible).
KARRIE WEBB:  It was really, really gusty today.
Q.  Are you generally pleased or displeased?
KARRIE WEBB:  I'm really pretty pleased.
Q.  Given the start you had, did you expect to be where you are?
KARRIE WEBB:  And I missed a couple short ones out there, but I made a couple of good long ones, so I consider it even.  I'll work on my short putts tonight before I go home and hopefully not have to worry about that tomorrow.
Q.  Have you been asked to death, this little spurt that you've had that's got you back up there where you were for so long, is there a short answer to that?
KARRIE WEBB:  Just a lot of hard work.  I'm just on the other side of    I was on the wrong side of playing good for a long time, really, really close, and hopefully I'm on the downside of the wave to get on the other side of a good playing streak.
Q.  That sounds pretty simple.
KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah.
Q.  I'm sure it wasn't quite that simple.
KARRIE WEBB:  It's funny because you feel like you start getting a break and you start making putts and you get the momentum going in your direction and it gives you a little bit of confidence.
Q.  How important was it to come back on 13?
KARRIE WEBB:  I put two great swings together, a great iron shot in there and judged the wind there a little bit and made that bomb, so it felt pretty good.
Q.  Do you glean any real momentum from finishing like you did?
KARRIE WEBB:  I might be within five shots.  You never know how the leaders are going to finish, but five shots if it's windy tomorrow, there's still plenty of golf left, so I still have a chance.
Q.  Today was your confidence as high?
KARRIE WEBB:  You feel like you're on a roll and it's just windy and stuff, you feel like you're grinding out there, trying to not get too far ahead of yourself.  I made four birdies in five holes on the back nine, so I guess that was probably my best streak of the day.
Q.  (Inaudible).
KARRIE WEBB:  I hit a number of good iron shots today, probably hit a good iron shot into, what is it, the 5th hole, and then I hit a good shot into the next hole, cross breeze.  I'm really trying to hold some of my iron shots up against the breeze, and I held a shot up there against the breeze and made a good 15 foot putt.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT