KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 31, 2006
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAUL ROVNAK:  We'll go ahead and get started.  Thanks carry for coming in and speaking with us.  68 today to follow up the 70 yesterday.  6 under over all.  Lorena is still out there at 11 under right now.  It looked like the conditions were a little more difficult today with the wind.  You're in great contention to give this thing a good on the weekend.  Talk about that.
KARRIE WEBB:  First of all, it's nice to be back in here.  I haven't been in here for a while.  But it was tough out there today, tougher than yesterday.  And especially the last few holes, the wind picked up and it was sort of twirling from a few different directions.

What I really felt pleased about is I put the ball in play most of the day and hit some good iron shots out there when the conditions were tough and I really trusted things.
Q.  Even though the conditions got tougher as the day went on, that's when you started making your move.  Obviously you holed out on 15 and had a good iron shot on 16.  Did you feel this coming along for a little while, even though the results haven't been Top 10?
KARRIE WEBB:  Yes, it's been a long time where I felt like I've been close, and I'm just on the other side of playing well.  I guess that's probably the lesson I've learnt in the last couple of years.  When I was playing really well, I was on the other side of the fine line and things were going well.  And you don't realize until you're on the wrong side of the fine line how close you really are, but it's hard to explain to people that you feel you are a better player now but the results aren't proving that.  I've done a lot of hard work and obviously I feel pleased with where I'm at, but there's still a couple of days to go and I'd like to play well and see where I end up on Sunday.
Q.  Even though it's only Friday, when you have someone start with a ridiculous number such as a 62, how important is it to do what you did today so that she knows there are still people playing in this tournament?
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, when I made the turn today, Lorena was at 10 under and I was at 3.  I thought if I could get within five shots that's not too bad.  I think it's extremely hard to hold that large of a lead for three days.  There's probably more pressure than the players chasing.  I felt like if I got within five that I had a pretty good chance with two days to go.
Q.  You've had some enormous leads yourself.  Have you found yourself with a 5 or an 8 shot lead going into the weekend that that was    how were the emotions different than if you had gone into the weekend tied or too clear?
KARRIE WEBB:  I don't think I've ever had such a big lead after the first round.  When you shoot 62, too, it's hard to go out the next day, even if you shoot 70, you feel like you've shot 80.  I have played with big leads before.  I don't know, that sometimes seems like such a long time ago.  I was playing so well.  I knew it was my tournament to lose, but I had such a large amount of confidence that I just went out there and played.

It's definitely a lot harder, though, than only being one or two shots ahead, just because you still have to play fairly aggressively and there's still a lot of people chasing you.  So playing with a large lead, mentally it's a different feeling, I think.
Q.  It seemed like you and Juli were having a really good time out there.  You tossed your ball into the crowd.  How much fun was this round for you today?
KARRIE WEBB:  Today was definitely a lot of fun.  Playing with July is almost my favorite pairing out here, I think.  We've played a lot of golf together and we enjoy each other's company.  Because we've played together so much, we know when to talk to each other and when not to.  We have a great amount of respect for one another's games, so it's enjoyable when you're playing out there with someone that you're good friend's with.
Q.  (Inaudible) give us your thoughts on thinking this could be my week.
KARRIE WEBB:  I hit a really    probably the best shot I hit today I felt was on the 14th, the hole before we had a strong cross right to left breeze with the pin tucked in the right corner there.  I have been working on hitting shots holding them against the wind instead of trying to hit them with the wind.  To do that, I hit just a perfect shot that I wanted to.  I didn't make birdie, but I think that's what gave me the confidence to really drive down the next and hit a really good iron shot into 15.
Q.  What did you hit?
KARRIE WEBB:  7 iron.
Q.  How long?
KARRIE WEBB:  I think it was 152.  I rode that one in a little bit off the wind.  When I hit it, I just gripped it in there and I thought I hit it too good, and it pitched right where we were talking and released out.
Q.  You mentioned being in here, it's been a while since you've been in here.  2004 wasn't that long ago.  Does it feel like you need to get a wind?  Do you find yourself thinking about that a lot?
KARRIE WEBB:  A little bit.  I'm out here to win.  I'm not out here just to make up the numbers.  I think the work that I've done, you know, I feel like I'm good enough to play as good as I did five or six years ago.  But I think the difference is now that I might really enjoy it and    not that I never appreciated, I just didn't understand how good I was playing.  Now if I get that sort of form going, I think I'll really enjoy it.
Q.  And you have an excellent record at this golf course, obviously.  Are the conditions out there much different than they were say six years ago when you won or a couple of years ago when you were in that last pairing with Annika?
KARRIE WEBB:  I actually don't remember the conditions.  We usually get one or two windy days here, though, and I think some of my better rounds have been when it's windy.  I think I just buckle down more and really focus and hit some good shots.  But we always get a couple of windy days out here.  I don't know what the forecast is for the rest of the weekend, but I'm glad I'm done right now.
Q.  You didn't understand how good you were playing, which makes sense, because you were young, and now you know how good you can be, but you haven't been able to quite get back to that level.  Is that at all frustrating or do you just go with it?
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, you have to go with it, but it is frustrating.  Like I said, I feel the work I've done on my game, I'm a better player than I was when I was playing really well.  Mentally, I just don't have the confidence that I had.  It's just a matter of having more and more rounds of what I saw today just to get that confidence back up and that belief in myself again.
Q.  A couple of good rounds gives confidence and a couple of wins gives more.  Is it about a full year of doing that before you can get back to doing what you want?
KARRIE WEBB:  I don't know.  I haven't really thought that far ahead.  I'm just trying to take one week at a time and be prepared    prepare myself for the tournament as well as I can and do the work that I've been doing.  I feel like it's just a matter of time.  If it's not, then I'll just reevaluate things.

But like I said, I don't want to be out here to make up the numbers, I want to be out here to try to win and that's what I'm working toward doing.
Q.  Is your confidence level at a point right now where you think you could sustain a round like today over the weekend, or are you sitting there thinking, I hope I can do that?
KARRIE WEBB:  No, I'm not saying that.  I just got done and I'm really pleased with my round.  Obviously I put myself in there with a chance, it just depends on how Lorena finishes tonight.  I'll just go out there tomorrow and take it one shot at a time.  The good thing that I did with myself today was not get too far ahead of myself.  I was really trying to just stay in the moment and hit each shot that presented itself to me.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Take us over the scorecard today.  Birdie 2.
KARRIE WEBB:  2, I hit my 19 degree rescue to just on the front and 2 putted for birdie from 50 feet.

11, par 5, I hit my 19 degree rescue to just short of the green there and chipped up to about a foot.

12, bogey on 12, missed the fairway left and really didn't have much of a shot there.  I got up to the front of the green and hit a poor chip and missed about, I don't know, a 15, 18 foot putt for par.
Q.  (No microphone.)
KARRIE WEBB:  On the chip, I was in between sort of tiers and I was trying to land it in the middle.  I didn't catch the ball the way I wanted to so it came out kind of fluffy.
PAUL ROVNAK:  The birdie on 13.

13, I hit a drive down the right, just in the first cut and I hit an 8 iron in there to about eight feet above the hole.
PAUL ROVNAK:  You said 15 was a 7 iron from 152?
KARRIE WEBB:  Yes.
PAUL ROVNAK:  And you said it rolled in?
KARRIE WEBB:  Yes.
PAUL ROVNAK:  16, birdie.
KARRIE WEBB:  That was another 7 iron to 10 feet.

17, I hit a 5 iron to the green there, hit a poor chip shot and 2 putted from, I don't know, 30 feet, 35 feet, just on the right.  The pin was back left.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT