WENDY'S CHAMPIONSHIP FOR CHILDREN
August 26, 2005
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAUL ROVNAK:  11 under for the tournament, and right now you're tied for the lead.  Talk about your day and then we'll take questions.
KARRIE WEBB:  Very slow day.  I had tons of birdie chances.  So I feel pretty good about 66.  Obviously did a lot, could have made a few more putts, but 11 under for two rounds is a good spot.
PAUL ROVNAK:  We'll take questions.
Q.  Yesterday you said that physically and mentally (indiscernible)?
KARRIE WEBB:  Yes.  I felt pretty good out there.  You know, like I said, it's    I think I only missed one fairway and didn't miss any greens.  So I felt petty comfortable out there.  I've just got to carry that over a little bit more often with the putting.
Q.  Without say "easy" out there, it certainly isn't difficult, though, (indiscernible) the fairway (indiscernible)?
KARRIE WEBB:  Well
Q.  Pretty straightforward (indiscernible) must be relatively easy in order to do that.
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, I'm not going to say that word because that's a jinx.

The fairways are very generous here.  So, really, if you're swinging half decent, you shouldn't really be missing too many fairways.  I think I've only missed two in two days.

The greens are holding as well, they're pretty receptive.  I think last year before we got any rain, they were pretty firm.

So you've still got to place it in the right part of the green, though.  I think the pins have been fairly generous the past two days.  They haven't been as tough as they could be.
Q.  (Indiscernible) have you always felt that this is a course that you could score on if you had your game together?
KARRIE WEBB:  This is    last year was my first time here.  And I don't think I finished very well.  I played well, and then had a couple of hiccups there.  I remember feeling comfortable last year on the golf course, and this year.  Last year the fairways were double as wide because of all the rain we had.  But the course played a lot longer last year.  I think that's the difference last year because we had so much rain, you were hitting more clubs into the green, which made those pins a little less accessible.  Right now it's playing    well, to me, this is only the second time I've played it, it's the shortest I've ever seen it.
Q.  How would you describe your year?
KARRIE WEBB:  Not as good as I would have liked.  Not as good as I felt at the start of the year.  And probably not as good as I feel like I can swing it.

It's been a tough year for me putting wise, and I haven't had any momentum whatsoever.  So hopefully a good finish for the year will change things around for me.  But definitely I'm not up to what I    the standard I thought I would be (indiscernible).
Q.  In regard to your putting, have you felt coming into this tournament with being 11 under for two rounds, do you feel like you're on to anything that may be working for you?
KARRIE WEBB:  Yes and no.  I think if you would have watched my round today, you would have known that that 66 is the worst I could have shot today.  As long as I (indiscernible) and, you know, I'm working really hard on it, and eventually things will turn around.
Q.  Is this the most solid and consistent stretch you've played this year?
KARRIE WEBB:  No.  I mean, goal tracking wise I've had rounds like this this year.  It's hard to say because the fairways are wide and the greens are holding, it does make it a little easier to hit the fairways and the greens.

But my goal tracking day today was way better than it was yesterday, and only, you know, one shot better.  Out of 18 holes, I'd say 15 holes I was inside 20 feet.  You know, probably more than that, I think.  Yeah.  I can only think of one really long putt I had today.  It was a really good (indiscernible) day.
Q.  How comfortable are you now with some of the swing changes you made?
KARRIE WEBB:  Each day is a little different.  Some days I feel really comfortable with it and some days I don't.  I think I just got to get out of my own way sometimes.  I get a little too technical rather than just letting the feel that I have to hit the shot, to do that and just to trust that I can do it without thinking about mechanics.
Q.  (No microphone.)
KARRIE WEBB:  I had a lot of movement off the ball.  And a lot more arms and legs where now I don't have any movement off the ball hardly and I swing a lot more with my (indiscernible).
Q.  When you finished the way you did yesterday, obviously not something that's going to make you happy.  At this stage of your career, can you put it behind you, forget about and not let it affect the way you start
KARRIE WEBB:  I shot 66 today.
Q.  I know.
KARRIE WEBB:  It's just very disappointing.  You feel like you played really well and then to    you know I only missed a four foot putt on the last.  It wasn't like I was all over (indiscernible) and I bogeyed.  It was just a really tough    tough bogey.  It's not the way you like to finish your day at work.
Q.  (Indiscernible) how long did it take you to let it go?
KARRIE WEBB:  I don't know, mate.  I went and practiced for about an hour and 20 minutes.  So by then I was done.
Q.  (Question about fallout with cameraman).
KARRIE WEBB:  I think (indiscernible) the cameramen have been pretty (indiscernible).
Q.  Have you gotten (indiscernible)?
KARRIE WEBB:  Oh, yeah, it's been (indiscernible) especially when I made Sports Center because of (indiscernible).
Q.  You didn't get a call from Stevie Williams?
KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah.  Well, I definitely wasn't trying to imitate him.
Q.  You said you weren't or you were?
KARRIE WEBB:  I definitely wasn't trying to imitate him.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Can you take us over your score card?
KARRIE WEBB:  Started on 10.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Birdie on 12?
KARRIE WEBB:  I hit a wedge, and then to about 5 feet.
PAUL ROVNAK:  13?
KARRIE WEBB:  Wedge, and then to about 15 feet.
PAUL ROVNAK:  17, the par 3?
KARRIE WEBB:  9 iron to about 10 feet.
PAUL ROVNAK:  4, the par 5?
KARRIE WEBB:  I hit a rescue club, 19 degree rescue club to a couple yards short of the green and chipped up to about 5 feet.
PAUL ROVNAK:  7, the par 4?
KARRIE WEBB:  Hit my 53 degree wedge and then to about 3 feet.
PAUL ROVNAK:  8, the par 3?
KARRIE WEBB:  I hit an 8 iron to about 5 feet.
Q.  You said 66 was the worst you could have shot.  Can you go through some of your misses?
KARRIE WEBB:  11 was about 12 feet.  15 was about 15 feet.  16 was about 12 feet.  3 was about 12 feet.  That's about it (indiscernible).
Q.  The one on 9 was
KARRIE WEBB:  9 was probably 12 feet.
Q.  (No microphone)?
KARRIE WEBB:  A couple.
Q.  Was there something about that shot    I watched the putt at 9 (indiscernible)?
KARRIE WEBB: (Indiscernible) low.
Q.  Oh, okay.  So you overcompensated that?
KARRIE WEBB: A little bit.  Because I didn't see as much grade, so then that confused me a little bit.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Thanks.
KARRIE WEBB:  Thanks.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT