HSBC  WOMEN'S WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 1, 2005
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
KARRIE WEBB:  It was just a really hard quality match, and I think I only missed one green out there today and didn't miss the fairway.  So just was always in the hole and having birdie putts and chances to win the hole.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Match play is a format you don't get to play very often, since you don't get to compete in the Solheim Cup.  Do you like it?
KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah, every match feels like you're in contention to win a golf tournament.  It's make or break and you've got to play good golf to start with, to have a chance to win the match.  And I think three times today, I had to make a putt after Paula made a putt for birdie and I did.  Three out of four times today I did that.  That was really pleasing to see with that much pressure on a short putt that I would go ahead and make it.
PAUL ROVNAK:  We'll go ahead and take questions.
Q.  You said three of four times that Paula made a birdie putt, you then had to follow?
KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah, four times she made it first, and then three of those four times I made it to halve the hole.
Q.  After the first one or two, did you then kind of get that rhythm of putting, and even though you were the second one to go, it was a little bit more comfortable?
KARRIE WEBB:  Yes and no.  For example, on 15, I hit it in there about five feet and Paula made a 25 footer and then I've got a 5 footer.  It goes from looking like you're going to win the hole to, you know, that 5 footer looks about ten feet all of a sudden.
Q.  Did the does the fact that Paula was seeded fourth and you were further down the list mean anything to you going into today's match?
KARRIE WEBB:  No.
Q.  You've been here before.
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, I've won a few tournaments.
Q.  That's what I'm getting at.
KARRIE WEBB:  And I'm playing really well.  I just knew that I needed to trust that I could do that today.
Q.  Did you play much amateur golf back in Australia?
KARRIE WEBB:  I never won the Australian Amateur, but I won a number of State Amateur titles.  Amateur golf in Australia, we play in a state series; all states play against one another, and that was a team match play format, as well.  I played quite a bit as an amateur.  But it's a lot different standard.  Obviously back then, you could shoot 1  or 2 over probably for 18 holes and win your match.  Out here, you do that, you're probably done after about 14 or 15 holes.
Q.  A lot of the younger, the upstart players have already fallen already in this tournament than some of the players with more experience.  Do you think experience plays a bigger factor, just as far as poise and composure?
KARRIE WEBB:  Yes and no.  You would think that at the U.S. Open, as well, but a lot of the younger players played well at the U.S. Open last well.

I don't think it really is a factor.  I just look at it as I've got to play good to start with, and then just go from there.  As long as I'm hitting plenty of fairways and greens and giving myself chances.  You know, if I'm doing that, that's putting pressure on the other player, because I'm not in any trouble and I'm not going to make any bogeys when I'm hitting lots of greens.  Birdies are going to win holes.
Q.  With 36 holes to play, what preparation will you have tomorrow?
KARRIE WEBB:  I look at to start with, 18 holes; I have to win that match before the afternoon match.  They told me I'm playing Jeong Jang tomorrow morning, but I haven't looked at the draw to see what belies my future if I win tomorrow.

So I'm just going to concentrate on the morning match, and hopefully I'll be playing in the afternoon, and hopefully I have enough energy to win that match, as well.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Thank you, Karrie.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT