MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 9, 2005
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.   Before we get started formally, I would like to introduce Ty Votaw, LPGA Commissioner, to say a few words.
TY VOTAW:  Karrie, every since you came into our lives at the 1995 Weetabix Women's British Open and won that when you weren't a member of the LPGA, and followed that up with finishing second at the 1995 Q school with a broken arm, to every victory, and every Major, and every accolade since then, we knew we had a special member of the LPGA and a special golfer in the history of golf.

Your win in Chicago got you your 27th point.  Your win at the Weetabix Women's British Open two years later got you the career Super Slam, and today, you have completed your     you have competed in your tenth event which qualifies you for your ten year requirement.

As I said to you a few weeks ago, you make every room better whenever you're in it, and you are to go down in history as one of the greatest golfers the game has ever known    not women golfers, but the game of golf.

On behalf of everybody associated with the LPGA, I want to say thank you for ten great years in a Hall of Fame career.  Congratulations.
KARRIE WEBB: Thank you, this will brighten up my room.
TY VOTAW:  With us today is the senior vice president and chief operations officer for the World Golf Hall of Fame, Jack Peter, who would also like to welcome you.

JACK PETER:  Thank you, Ty.  Karrie, congratulations.  On behalf of our 104 members, our staff, and our more than 200 volunteers, congratulations on a remarkable achievement which will only keep progressing over the coming years.

Our mission, Karrie, simply stated, is to recognize and celebrate the greatest players and contributors in the sport, and to be an inspiration to golfers and fans worldwide.  You have certainly come a long way.  You are providing that inspiration to people around the world.  We congratulate you and look forward to welcoming you into the Hall of Fame this November.

You will join two fellow Australians in Peter Thompson and Greg Norman.  You will be in good company.  The ceremony is November 14th, a Monday.  We hope you will all be there.  We welcome you into our family, preserving your legacy and telling your story for years to come. Congratulations.
Q.   Karrie, you have had a historic career.  You qualified for the Hall of Fame numerous years ago with point requirements.  It's now official.  Can you share your thoughts with us before we take questions?
KARRIE WEBB: Sure.  Well, it's a funny feeling, because, obviously as Ty and Paul both said, it's     I've known for a few years that as long as I stayed upright and played ten events a year, that I would qualify for the Hall of Fame.  So, as today got closer, I got a little more excited, and I was actually really nervous on the first tee.

First round of the tournament being a Major, I think the butterflies were a little different than that.
Q.   We'll take questions.

What did you think when the storms rolled in.
KARRIE WEBB: It was fairly good timing.  I was a little stormy in my head.
Q.   Is that hard to play a first round of a Major and have that kind of sitting on your head to get through this round, and it's official?
KARRIE WEBB: Not really.  I mean, I think I just     it added to my excitement to playing today, and just going out there and doing the best I could, and no matter what happened, the end of the day was going to be a good end.
Q.   Have you reflected much at all about the kind of impact you have had on the history of the sport?
KARRIE WEBB: Yes, I think the last couple of years, I think when you're doing it you don't appreciate it as much as when you take a step back and have a look at it.  You know
Q.   It's hard to do if it's your career, right?
KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, I've talk to a few people, and while you're doing it, you're doing it, and you know, you're working hard and things are going well, so, that's just supposed to happen.  That's sort of, you know, the first years of my career, seven years of my career.  How bad am I going to be?  This is what my nightmare is going to be about my speeches at the end of the year.  I'm not going to get through a speech.

Yeah, I just really had time to reflect and realize what I have achieved.
Q.   This might be a good time to go over your card.
KARRIE WEBB: Well, there is one hole that I'll probably cry about.  You want me to go through my card?
Q.   Karrie, I did not bring your card with me, so if you remember it.

I was kidding.
KARRIE WEBB: All right.
Q.   Did you think of anything on the 18th tee coming down?  When did your     did you start thinking about coming down 18?
KARRIE WEBB: I guess a little bit.  I was really trying to     I made a 7 on the 12th hole, so I really wasn't thinking about a whole lot.  I was trying to get myself back closer to even par, and I guess I wasn't really thinking about it until I hit into the green because, obviously, as we all do, you're just focused on today and trying to, you know, keep myself in there with a chance for this week.
Q.   Did it ever cross your mind either yesterday or today that Meg was playing with you when you won the Open at Merit Club and qualified for the Hall?
KARRIE WEBB: No, I just     there's probably only a handful of people that I would have loved to have played with today, and I played with two of them.
Q.   Karrie, with all of this out of the way now, do you think you will be able to concentrate a little bit more going through the weekend?
KARRIE WEBB: I don't know.  That's been what I have been battling for a couple of years.  Hopefully, you know, I will be switched on tomorrow morning, and, you know, go out there and shoot a really low number and get myself in there with a chance on the weekend.
Q.   Do you recall a time when the Hall first entered your mind?  At what point in your career?  Was it the first Major?  Was it the next five, in the next two years, or whatever?
KARRIE WEBB: I don't even know.  I know when they changed the criteria I had already won, I think     when was that changed?
TY VOTAW:  It was changed in '99.
KARRIE WEBB: So, I had already won enough tournaments that I thought I had a chance.  And as it is right now, I could have qualified on the old criteria, but I never thought that it was possible that way.  And even when they changed the criteria I still thought it was going to be a stretch.  I would have to continue on the roll that I was, and I don't know when I actually really thought about it.  I think, obviously, going into 2000, I knew I only had a few points left to get, and I obviously knew that I only had two left when I played the US Open, and when I had a chance to win, I knew I could win my first US Open and get the points required to qualify for the whole thing.  I don't really recall when I thought about it being a possibility.
Q.   I think a Hall of Famer has to introduce you.  Have you thought about that?  Is that Greg?
KARRIE WEBB: I have asked Greg, but he's not going to be in the country.  I haven't decided who else I'm going to ask.
Q.   Do we have any more questions for Karrie?  Okay.  Thank you guys, and congratulations again, Karrie.  Thank you very much.
KARRIE WEBB: Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT