KRAFT  NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 26, 2004
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Good playing out there today.  I guess it was a tough day in the wind.  It looked a lot better yesterday.  Just talk about what was working for you out there and how you feel.
KARRIE WEBB:   Well, I hit the ball really well on the front nine, and part way through the back.  I missed a few greens coming in but managed to make some really good pars which kept my round going, kept my momentum going.
Q.  10 straight pars to finish.  Any great up-and-downs that you remember, in particular?
KARRIE WEBB:   Well, I had a couple of second putts, long putts on 10 and 14, and then a couple of up-and-downs  -- well, 16 and 17, were good up and downs.
Q.  Talk about how much factor the wind was.
KARRIE WEBB:   After yesterday, I don't think -- a few of us were talking last night, you can probably count on one hand how many times I've played here anyway where there hasn't been any wind.  So it was mild conditions yesterday and the complete opposite today, a very, very tough day.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
KARRIE WEBB:   It's the same, whether things work for you or not.  I worked really hard last year, I worked really hard at the beginning of the year, and I managed to get off to a good start yesterday and played very well today and hung in there coming in.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
KARRIE WEBB:   I don't know if I'm stronger, I'm probably a little bit fitter.  I don't know, I probably would lose the same arm wrestle match I would have last year.  I've done some strength training, but all in all just to feel better.
Q.  Is there a feeling of relief after today, you're back in form and thank goodness it's coming back?
KARRIE WEBB:   It was just nice to play very well yesterday, hit 17 greens, and I was just looking for a round where I didn't have to work my tail off to make a score, which I hadn't really done that all year.  It was nice to do that.  And today, with the wind the way it was, you know, it was just going to be one of those days where you had to work, whether you were hitting the ball well or not.  I was just really glad to get off to the start I did this morning and hit a lot of greens.  And on the back, I managed to hang in there and make good momentum putts, which I hadn't been making either.
Q.  Correct me if I'm wrong, you played Australian Open just now; is that correct?
KARRIE WEBB:  Yes.
Q.  There was Ms. Bagger at that tournament, and here we have an issue with Rosie Jones playing with Oliva, and I'm just wondering what's your opinion about that.  How is this contributing to the game and what's your opinion about that?
KARRIE WEBB:   I don't think anyone's personal life contributes to the game, it's just the way you play golf.  If you're a great player and play well and in contention to win tournaments and win tournaments, that's how you contribute to the game.
Q.  Let's go over your birdies and bogey real quick.
KARRIE WEBB:   On 3, I hit a 7-iron to about 10 feet.

6, I hit 5-iron to 15 feet.

8, I missed the green just right, pin-high right there, hit a 6-iron and didn't get up-and-down.  The par put was seven feet probably, eight feet.

That's it.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT