WEETABIX WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 31, 2003
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








NEAL REID:  You must be happy to be in with a low number early in the day.

KARRIE WEBB:   Yeah, obviously the weather conditions are a lot more favorable than we thought this morning, and the wind seems to be picking up a little bit, but that was probably only the last 45 minutes to an hour for us out on the golf course.  So the course probably played as easy as it can. 

But anything under par around here I think is a great score no matter what the conditions are.  Just one of those courses if you start missing fairways and greens, it's just a struggle whether it's windy or not. 

So I was really glad to keep the ball in play for the most part of the day, and I made a couple of really long putts out there.  Other than that, I hit a lot of greens and a lot of fairways. 

NEAL REID:  So just good, solid golf and just good course management out there?

KARRIE WEBB:   Yeah, I said to my caddie, Mike, when I finished on 18, even on 18 today, it's blowing a little bit downwind and it was very tempting just to hit driver off the tee.  I just hit a 2-iron off there and I had an 8-iron in.  So sometimes you have to be careful because that could have ruined a good score if I had done something stupid on the last.  So you have to just try to hold yourself back sometimes. 


Q.  You had just the one 5 on your card? 

KARRIE WEBB:   Yeah, it was actually a poor wedge shot into the 10th hole.  Missed the green, short-sided myself and didn't get up-and-down.  Really probably the worst iron shot I hit all day. 


Q. How many bunkers were you in today?

KARRIE WEBB:   Two.  One on the second and one on the fifth. 


Q.  How would you describe your season so far? 

KARRIE WEBB:   You know, probably pretty average, I guess, compared to my first eight years on the road.  But I really haven't gotten anything really, really going.  Last week was the first week that I put four good scores together.  I think one of my problems is I've either been having a really good round and thrown in a big number; or having a really decent tournament, but having a 75 or 76 in one of the rounds and it just really throws you out of contention. 


Q.  Do you know why? 

KARRIE WEBB:   I wouldn't be doing it if I knew why. 


Q.  How upsetting is it for you to have it happen?

KARRIE WEBB:   Well, you know, obviously, it's not what I want to do and how good I can play.  You know, I think I've been handling it pretty well.  Obviously, I'm not struggling by any means.  I'm in the top 20 on the Money List and that would probably be -- 95 percent of the girls out here would take that in a heartbeat. 

I'm not complaining.  I've had it so good.  I've never really struggled, and this is really about the first time that I have.  I'm just trying to keep working hard and work through it, and hopefully I'll come out of it sooner rather than later.


Q.  Do you think you need more time off during the season or more than what the off-season has been or anything obvious  --

KARRIE WEBB:   What do you mean?


Q.  Taking time off, and not really getting back to where you were  -- inaudible -- there was a period of two months where she has now been in top form  --

KARRIE WEBB:   I've never really had that much of a chance to have some time off.  I'm actually looking forward to the day where I can hang up the clubs for a couple of months.  It's just what I do; I work hard and through the middle of the season.  On the PGA TOUR you can play 15 events and make $2 or $3  million, but you've got to play a pretty full schedule just to have a chance to be in the top 5 on the Money List.  So you can't really take that month off in the middle of the summer like some of the men do.


Q.  But just in the top 20 isn't where you want to be, is it?

KARRIE WEBB:   Well, if you tell me that's my worst year for my whole career, I would be very happy about that. 


Q. You had a good week last week and a good day today.  Do you feel you're finding yourself looking forward to the rest of the season?

KARRIE WEBB:   Yeah, right now I have quite a bit of momentum going.  I feel really comfortable on the golf course.  One of the things I've struggled with is feeling comfortable on the golf course.  Just standing out there confidently and hitting shots, I did that pretty much all day today.  Just looked where I needed to hit it and for the most part hit it there.  You know, that's what I've got to do.  On a course like this, especially, I'm just got to really stick to my game plan and make confident golf swings.  I'm sure before the week is out, we will get to play a lot tougher conditions than we've played this morning. 


Q.  Is there anything specific that happened that gave you that confidence?

KARRIE WEBB:   Not really.  Leading up to the U.S. Open I was playing quite well, but still had not put four rounds together, and I just missed the cut there.  I didn't feel badly about my game enough that I would miss the cut there, but it's just one of those things.  So I did lose a little bit of confidence after doing that, but last week, I think really, I proved to myself that I've just got to keep things going and I put four rounds together.  I think that gave me a lot of confidence, and I swung the ball pretty much consistently for the four days. 

I think I've had a round here or there where my swing has not felt good and I've had that 75 or 76 and it sort of sets me back a little bit.  But last week I swung it well for four days and really felt pretty good about coming in here.


Q.  What is it that you do well?

KARRIE WEBB:   When I play well, I hit the ball really well.  When I win golf tournament, I make putts. 


Q.  In major championships, do you think the more demanding the conditions are, the better you respond?

KARRIE WEBB:   It seems that way the last four or five years.  I think I just really like the challenges of major championships just because for the most part they are not  -- you don't feel the pressure of hitting it to ten feet every hole and making every single opportunity that you've got because you've got to shoot 20-under to win. 

You know, with major championships, you have a solid game plan that you have to stick to, and then you've just got to pull that off and make it work.  And in doing that, you want to try to keep yourself away from the big numbers and try to make the birdies when you're given the opportunity. 


Q.  What do you do to get away from golf? 

KARRIE WEBB:   When I'm traveling, not a lot.  Watch TV, read a book.  On weeks off, I tend to spend time at my house in Florida and try to go fishing if the weather's good. 

NEAL REID:  Let's go over your score card real quick. 

KARRIE WEBB: The fifth hole, I hit a 6-iron left of the green in one of the bunkers.  I missed probably about an 18-foot putt for par there. 

6, I hit a 3-wood on the green it about 25 feet and 2-putted for birdie.

7, I hit a 7-iron to 35 feet and made the putt.

10, I missed the green right with a wedge and missed about a 10-footer for par.

11, I hit a 2-iron to 15 feet and 2-putted for a birdie.

14, I hit a 6-iron to about eight feet, ten feet and made the putt. 

15, I hit a 3-wood to about 25 feet and made the putt for eagle. 

17, I hit a 6-iron to 40 feet and made the putt. 

NEAL REID:  So you were 5-under on the par 5s today. 

KARRIE WEBB:   Yeah, I hit three of them in two and then made that bomb on 7 for birdie. 


Q.  How long was that 2-iron on 11?

KARRIE WEBB:   I had 212 or 213 to the pin. 


Q.  Any wind? 

KARRIE WEBB:   It was just crossing off the left. 

NEAL REID:  Is that one of the keys to getting a good score is taking advantage of the par  5s?

KARRIE WEBB:   The par 5s are set up where you can make birdies but it really is the key to  -- well, 7 downwind, I think some players will be able to reach that, but it's probably not possible for most people.  But 6, 11 and 15, the key to hitting the green in two is hitting a good drive.  Because if you miss the fairway, you are obviously not going to have much of a shot of getting there in two. 

And the lay-ups, 11, is pretty decent but on 6 and 15 those are probably one of the toughest shots on the course if you miss the fairway.  So the key is to really hit a good drive on those holes. 


Q.  How far did you have on 15? 

KARRIE WEBB:   15 I had like 205 or something like that on the front into the wind.  Short of the bunker on left, pretty much in the middle of the fairway. 

It was like 205 to the front, so I don't know what the pin was on.  It was like 230 to the pin or something. 


Q.  What was the shot of the day for you?

KARRIE WEBB:   Probably the 2-iron into 11 was the best shot of the day. 


Q.  Do you always carry a 2-iron?

KARRIE WEBB:   Last year I did carry 2-iron, but the 2- and 3-iron I'm carrying this week are those rescue clubs and I think they will probably stay.  As good as I've hit them, they will probably be constantly in my bag.  So I just have a driver and a 3-wood and then the two rescue clubs, the 2 and 3. 


Q.  Is that unusual? 

KARRIE WEBB:   Yeah, for the most part I guess.  I sort of call the 2-iron a  -- well, they are not woods because you can play them like irons, but I guess sort of in between. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT