CHICK-FIL-A CHARITY CHAMPIONSHIP
April 26, 2003
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Good playing out there.  You had a good finish in the morning and a great second round.  You must be pretty happy after a long day.
KARRIE WEBB: I don't know if I'm more happy to be done than the way I played.  But it was two really solid grounds rounds.  I haven't made a bogey.  So I only missed a handful of greens and really am not putting myself in any bad spots or any chance to make too many bogeys.  So it was pretty solid from tee to green and then I putted pretty solidly as well.

Q. This morning you told me you felt pretty solid top to bottom.  And you said, "I'm not getting in any trouble out there."
KARRIE WEBB: Right.  And obviously with the fairways as wet as they are that probably doubles the size.  You can hit it down the right edge of the fairway and it will stay in the fairway.  So I think you can feel a lot more comfortable on a course especially when we played on courses that have been so hard and fast for the most part of this year that it's nice to actually know that when you hit it somewhere it's going to stop.

Q. How is the course playing out there, and how did it handle the rain do you think?
KARRIE WEBB: Well I think yesterday afternoon when we played it was a lot dryer than I thought it was going to be.  But it really hasn't dried up a whole lot more since.  It's pretty good.  But you're still not getting any roll.  So, it's probably about the same as yesterday as far as the roll you're getting off the tee.


Q. Was it a little hard to quit last night since you were four-under-par at the time?
KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, it was just getting really dark so we probably went one hole -- we were in the middle of the 10th when they called it last night.  And we thought that they would call it before we teed off there.  But on the 10th green when we putted out it was getting hard to see the line and stuff like that.  But then you go on into today, you knew you weren't going to get done yesterday. 

Q. What's clicking for you, or is it everything?
KARRIE WEBB: Pretty much.  Hitting the driver pretty good.  And I've, you know, when I miss my irons I've hit them pretty straight.  On the green -- I hit a number of good iron shots so I think my -- I'm trying to think, over the two days I chipped in on 16 today.  But other than that the longest birdie putt I holed has been about 12 feet. 

Q. Is this a demanding type of course that tests every shot in your bag?
KARRIE WEBB: I think it's one of the best layouts that we play.  And then they have lengthened the course this year and I think it really makes it so you have to hit good golf shots.  Scores are always pretty low here.  The par-5s are -- if you can make a good score on the par-5s you're going to have a good round.  There are a couple short par-4s that you can have a go at too.  You have to play the tough holes well and if you get through them in even par or better, hopefully from there you can at least shoot four or 5-under from there. 

Q. You even had a couple of chances for birdie coming in that you missed, right?
KARRIE WEBB: I missed about a 12-footer on 7 and about a 15-footer on the last.  It lipped out. 

Q. What has kept you behind so far this year?
KARRIE WEBB: I've been trying to avoid big numbers in the middle of my rounds or anywhere in my round.  That stops a lot of momentum.  And you have to play catch up golf from there.  You have to make up for your mistakes.  So I just want to keep building on good golf. 

Q. Are these the two best back-to-back rounds you've played all year?
KARRIE WEBB: Yeah.  No, actually I played pretty well the first three rounds in Phoenix and just had a poor final round.  So, pretty similar to Phoenix, probably. 

Q. What do you do to handle these type of weather conditions?
KARRIE WEBB: I don't think I've ever seen it dry, so.  I think one year we played it fairly dry, but other than that we're pretty used to pitching it, hitting a drive and maybe getting a yard or two roll.  But I think most of -- I had the afternoon wave in the first day last year where we were finishing our second round or did we finish that second round?  Yeah.  We finished it Saturday night or something.  But we had to finish it.  We finished it Sunday morning.  That's right.  Finished Sunday morning the first round.  And just kept going.  But I had that swing where you're up early every morning to try and play nine.

Q. What time did you get up this morning?
KARRIE WEBB: 10 to five.  Yeah. 

Q. You've done everything but win here.
KARRIE WEBB: Played pretty well here.  It's one of my favorite stops.  Try to make sure I put it on my schedule every year. 

Q. Does it make it more of a challenge or more exciting if you're playing in the final group with a player like Se Ri Pak?
KARRIE WEBB: Yeah.  Obviously you're going to have to play good golf to win no matter what.  But you know a player like Se Ri who's in contention that you're going to have to play good golf because she's probably going to play good golf too.  So on a course like this where you're going to have to probably shoot -- it all depends what the lead is at the end of the day -- but if I shoot 4- or 5-under tomorrow that should be a good chance.  But I might even have to be lower.  So it's pretty hard to set a score.  With Se Ri up there, I'm sure that will be the case.

Q. Does it become like match play?
KARRIE WEBB: I never try, unless it's coming down to the last few holes and it's only out of us two.  But generally there's always a handful of players that have got a chance.  And you can't really just focus on people who have the best record.  Everyone's capable of winning and if you don't take anyone else seriously, they're going to be the one that wins. 

Q. Do you start the week thinking that 15-under is the number you need?
KARRIE WEBB: No, I don't really think that way.  Just try and put scores on board and hopefully it's good enough. 

Q. What do you think is the source of your big numbers this year?  Just mental lapses?
KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, maybe.  They sort of just come out of the blue.  Like last week I was 3-under on the first round with two holes to play and made an eight on a par-4 on the second to last hole.  So that put me out of the tournament pretty much.  So it's just been that sort of thing. 

Q. Is that something that's hard to deal with?
KARRIE WEBB: Well, yeah.  I've had patches where I've had big numbers, but it's just trying to get over the hump and try and keep my momentum going.  I feel like I'm playing a lot better at this stage of the year than I was last year and just not scoring very well.  I haven't particularly putted all that well and these last couple of days I've really rolled it well.  So, it's good to see. 

Q. What do you think about Annika playing in the Bank of America Colonial?
KARRIE WEBB: Well I think obviously Annika's trying to keep motivating herself.  And this is like another big -- I don't know how long she's thought about playing on that PGA tour, but the distance she's picked up and the confidence, to me I think it's the right time for her to do it if she was ever going to do it, just because she's riding on such a huge wave of confidence, she's playing really well.  And I think that if she plays really well I think she will make the cut.  I don't think she will have a problem with that.  I think it's dealing with everything else that goes along with it.  Whether she can ignore the distractions leading up to it and just go out and do what she's good at. 

Q. Last year, Annika said that you were what motivated her to work hard to get back to the top a few years ago.  Have you heard that?
KARRIE WEBB: I've read it and heard it. 

Q. If the roles were reversed between you and Annika, would you play in the PGA event?
KARRIE WEBB: No.  I never wanted to draw that much attention to myself.  And I'm quite happy with the challenges that I have every week out on the LPGA.

Q. What do you think about Michelle Wie?
KARRIE WEBB: Well I think there's more than just length there.  She's a very, very talented player.  She hits the ball amazingly well for a 13 year old.  And I just hope that she enjoys being a kid before she makes golf her living.  I think that's the only, one of my only concerns for her is that I can understand gymnasts and tennis players making it their living at such a young age, because they're lifespan in the sport is so short.  But golf she can play forever.  Look at Joanne Carner she's still out here and she's 63.  And there's such a long lifespan.  And really you don't hit your peak until your 30s, early 30's.  So I just hope that she just enjoys the fact that she's really, really good right now and continues to get better and when she turns 18, it will be her world if she keeps continuing to improve, because it's quite amazing how good she is already.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT