WEETABIX WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2002
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Three-time Weetabix Women's British Open champion.  You've accomplished the super Grand Slam.  Give us some general comments about the victory.
KARRIE WEBB: I don't think it's still sunk in yet.  But obviously yesterday, you know, I asked for a little bit of bad weather today and I got my wish for about five or six holes, I guess.  Fortunately, or unfortunately, you know, the wind dropped and the rain cleared off.  But fortunately for me I played those other holes really well in the bad weather, but knew I had to keep the pace up because the course was going to play pretty easy after that, and it did.  I mean, there wasn't a lot of wind out there.  And the only thing it was, that it was a little chilly and you had gotten so wet early on that it would be the only that would affect you. 
Fortunately, I kept thing going and obviously made a great par save at 16, which really was a big key and  then birdied 17, which I didn't know at that stage, but probably put the last nail in the coffin.

Q.  How did you birdie 17?
KARRIE WEBB: I hit a 3-wood about 40 yards short of the pin, and pitched it up there to about 10, 12 feet.

Q.  What happened on 16?  
KARRIE WEBB: Well, not that this is an excuse, but after our tee shots, we were told that we were on the clock.  So, you know, when you've got things going pretty well, you know, you're in a groove, it's a little unnerving that you've got to  -- well, to speed up a little bit, obviously, because we had been behind.  We were probably taking a little bit too much time.  I just think I rushed a shot.  With that pin where it was, I didn't have  -- you know, I didn't have a yardage where I could go, oh, great, just a full wedge; it was in between yardage and I was in the first cut of rough.  I think I really just rushed that shot.  And fortunately, it jumped a little bit and missed long, long and right, which they hadn't mowed down the bank there, so it stayed up on the bank.  I just hit a pitch shot onto the green to about 30 feet and made the putt.
And then a couple of people have asked me that were out there, saw how quickly I took and didn't know why I took so quickly to line that putt up, but we were on the clock.  Fortunately, it was a good read and a good putt.  That was probably the biggest putt of the day there, just because I maintained a 3-shot lead and then birdied 17, which Paula had already birdied an earlier hole, so I still had a 3-shot lead.

Q.  What did you feel when you hit that second shot?
KARRIE WEBB: Well, you just never want to be timed under those circumstances, and obviously we had gotten  -- I don't know how we had gotten so far behind, because we had been waiting two or three holes earlier.  You know, that's the last place I wanted to hit it.  I didn't hear any oohs or aahs from the crowd, so I thought perhaps it had stayed up, because I think I would have know otherwise from crowd reaction that it had gone in the water.  I didn't know until I got up there.  I was a little ruffled because I was sort of thrown out of the groove that I was in.

Q.  What did you hit there?
KARRIE WEBB: It was a wedge.

Q.  Off the tee?
KARRIE WEBB: A driver.

Q.  Overall, have you played better than that under pressure?
KARRIE WEBB: I don't think so, not from a come-from-behind win.  I probably play as good or better when I've had to maintain a lead.  Probably in tougher conditions I've played better, but early on today I played really well in tough conditions and made a great par save on the first and made about a 6 or 7-footer on the first, which I think really settled me down a little bit.  I didn't miss really too many shots until I hit a poor tee sheet on -- 14, 15, and 16 were probably my poor holes today where I didn't hit many good shots there at all.  But I made some good putts, which is -- normally they say if you hit one good shot on a hole, you make a par, so I did that.

Q.  Did you have a number in mind when you started out?
KARRIE WEBB: Well, when you're on the driving range and it's blowing about 15 or 20 miles an hour and the rain is sideways, there's no score that you could ever put in your mind.  You just have to go out there and play and just see what happens.  You know, because if I thought I could shoot even par and win, my mind set would not have been in the right gear for when the weather got better, because I needed to play aggressively and make some birdies.  And fortunately, I had already done that in the first couple of holes.

Q.  You've set some more records and milestones this week.  What does that mean to you?
KARRIE WEBB: Well, obviously I guess what you're talking about is the Super Slam, or whatever anyone wants to call it.  At the start of the year, I knew that coming into this week I did have a chance to win all five majors on the LPGA.  It feels great.  It's not a fete that everyone has a chance to do.  There's not a lot of players on tour that have a chance of doing it even, so I feel pretty honored and feel great that I've been the first player to do it.

Q.  You're also the first player since Mickey Wright to win a major in four consecutive seasons.
KARRIE WEBB: I didn't know that, so I guess that feels great, too.

Q.  What was your longest putt all week?
KARRIE WEBB: I don't know 35, 40 feet, I guess.




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT