WEETABIX WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 2002
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 LAURA NEAL:  Karrie, welcome.  Maybe just some comments on your start.
KARRIE WEBB:   Obviously, very pleased to shoot 6-under today.  On this course, even as easy as the conditions were today, I don't think you ever expecting to out there and shoot 6-under, so I feel really good about that.  I didn't  -- I putted really well today, and I hit the ball fairly well. 
Probably the good thing about the way I hit the ball today is that my misses were always on in the right place, I guess.  I didn't miss -- I only missed one fairway really badly where I had to pitch out.  With the greens, I never really short-sided myself, so I had relatively easy, straightforward chips. 
I mean, if you look at my stats, probably the only thing that was really impressive today was my putting.  But when your misses are not on the wrong side of the green, it's a lot easier to get up-and-down and make par.

Q.  How many putts did you have? 
KARRIE WEBB:   Probably around 25 or 26 probably. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
KARRIE WEBB:   It's nothing  -- it's really not anything that different.  It's just tightening things up a little bit and not making it too loose, and on my off-weeks, hopefully off-weeks, when I'm not playing that great, that my swing is a little bit more consistent and my misses are not as bad. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
KARRIE WEBB:   She missed the fairway in some of the deep stuff and took her a couple to get out.

Q.  Have you played a lot of links golf?
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, actually, my rookie year, I was here on the European Tour and played at Dalmahoy, and two years ago, the Solheim Cup I played a couple of courses over here.  Obviously, it wasn't a tournament, but I played St. Andrews and Prestwick.

Q.  (Inaudible.)
KARRIE WEBB:  Even if it was a yard away from me, I wouldn't want to go have a look at it.  It's really not my place to do so. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
KARRIE WEBB:   I think it's pretty close, actually.  With a round like this where I don't feel I struck the ball to the best of my ability  -- still able to shoot 6-under, that's what I was able to do '99, 2000, 2001.  Especially '99, 2000, when things were not 100% good, I still could shoot really good scores, and I was sort of thinking about that, going down the last hole, how I used to be able to do stuff like that. 
It feels good that  -- like I'm going to go to the range now and hit some balls, and it feels good that I can shoot 66 and still have a little bit of work to do. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
KARRIE WEBB:   A little bit of both, I think.  I guess I was just favoring the middle of the green and trying to work it towards the pin, and if I missed it, anyway, I was missing it on the best part of the green.  And the misses, like I said, were not  -- I might have been a yard or two off the green, so it wasn't  -- I don't think I had a real difficult chip shot today, which is always nice. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
KARRIE WEBB:   Yeah, it wasn't really scrambling, because I mean, like I said, if you look at my stats, you would think so.  But the longest birdie putt  -- well, I made one about 30 feet, but other than that, they were all probably  -- well, a lot of them were five feet and in.  And my par putts, I think the longest par putt I holed was five or six feet.
LAURA NEAL:  Let's go through your card.
KARRIE WEBB:  The third hole, I hit a 3-iron just on the front of the green and 2-putted, I'd say from about 60 feet. 
The fourth hole, I hit a 6-iron to about 20 feet and made that. 
The fifth hole, I missed the fairway left and chipped out, actually just short of the green, and chipped up to about four feet.
7, I hit it on the green and 2-putted from about 50 feet. 
13, I hit a 6-iron to about 30 feet and holed the putt. 
14, I was just short in two.  Chipped it up to about six feet and made the putt for birdie.
17, just short in two, chipped it up to about five feet. 
The last, I hit a wedge to 15, 18 feet, I guess. 
LAURA NEAL:  Great round.  Thanks for coming in. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT