U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 5, 2002
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   So what happened?
KARRIE WEBB:  I don't know.  Today, I actually didn't play all that badly.  I just didn't make any birdies and -- I don't know --  after yesterday I think obviously it took a big chunk out of my confidence, so I really didn't swing as freely as I was in the practice rounds.  Again today, obviously, I didn't get into as much trouble today, but just when I had chances to birdie, didn't make the putts.  And actually didn't read the greens very well this week either. 
So just wasn't a very good couple of days.

Q.   We know this is your favorite Championship.  How disappointing is it not to be here for the weekend?
KARRIE WEBB: Very disappointing.  I was just thinking on that green that it's been almost three years since I missed the cut.  So  obviously it's not the best time to miss one, but I guess if you are going to miss one, it's over now, hopefully it's another three years before I miss another one. 

Q.   Did you play your butt off today?
KARRIE WEBB: I tried my butt, but I didn't play my butt off.

Q.   Did you have an idea of what you might need?
KARRIE WEBB: I said if I shot even par today that  would probably be -- 9 would probably be the number, I think. 

Q.   (Inaudible)
KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, well I knew I had to -- what are they at 11 now?  I knew I had to make two birdies and I  only made one birdie through the whole tournament up 'til then.  When you have got make two and you have only made 1 it doesn't seem really possible. 

Q.   Disappointed yesterday with your ball-striking.  What did you work on last night?  Did that change today?
KARRIE WEBB: I didn't really find too much of an answer.  I think my swing just practically disappeared overnight.  I don't know really what I did.  But I don't think I will be eating what I ate on Wednesday night ever again. 

Q.   (Inaudible)
KARRIE WEBB: I don't know I can't remember now.  I won't be eating again.  Fish it was, actually.

Q.   Nancy Lopez is about to play her final hole.  How much have you followed her through her career and how much will  women's golf miss her?
KARRIE WEBB: Well, pretty has been a good-bye to her I guess for Nancy all throughout this year, and obviously she's done so much for the LPGA and women's golf over the last couple of decades at least, and you know, I am sure that this is an emotional day for her being the last U.S. Open possibly that she will play, and I think everyone is going to miss her.  The fans, especially, they love watching her play, good or bad, which is great.  I don't know how she feels about  -- I don't think she feels great about playing bad, but the crowd  still loves to see her out there.

Q.   Younger players say that a bad tournament, they try and learn from it.  Do you learn from this or do you kind of just let this one go?
KARRIE WEBB: I think I am just going to let it go.  I don't think I learned too much from this at all.  Because I really felt like I had a good chance to win.  I really  -- it sounds stupid to think that I really felt like I was swinging it well before yesterday, but I really was.  It just vanished yesterday on the 11th tee, so you know, hopefully it's just one week and next week it will be back to swinging it good again.

Q.   (Inaudible) Annika said in retrospect she put too much pressure on herself.  Do you think that's possibly what happened to you?
KARRIE WEBB:  I don't  -- well, maybe.  I'd have to dig so far in my subconscious right now to find any blame to the pressure of going for three in a row.  But put a lot of pressure on myself to do well in this tournament any way.  I don't think I could put that much more pressure on myself for it to affect me.  I have always done well under pressure.  I think that was the biggest shock for me yesterday was that normally I thrive on that and it totally went the opposite way yesterday. 

Q.   (Inaudible) Since a century since anybody, male or female been able to three-peat an Open.  If it wasn't a pressure thing, what is it?  Is it almost like a golf-God- thing that nobody can do this?
KARRIE WEBB: No, I don't know.  I don't know.  I just didn't play obviously didn't  -- my game wasn't as good as I thought it was.  I think it was good without any pressure, but that pressure might have, you know, gave me a bad swing on the 11th tee, and from there I was a little hesitant for the whole tournament.

Q.   (Inaudible)
KARRIE WEBB: Playing the next three on the LPGA then a week off before the British.

Q.   You say you gear your whole year around the US Open.  How difficult will it be the next few weeks?
KARRIE WEBB: Well, I don't know, obviously I am really disappointed, but I feel like my game, besides the last two days is really coming around.  Hopefully I don't  -- it will be too windy to do any work this weekend but I like next week's golf course and the one after that.  Hopefully I can play some good golf and have a chance to win those tournaments.  I feel good about things before the British Open. 

Q.   Would you like it to come back here?
KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, I think it's a great golf course.  The greens are pretty funky.  I didn't realize they putt as hard as they have.  Some of the pin positions today, you know, when you are playing practice rounds, you are hitting putts to where you think pins are going to be, and I saw a couple of pins today never would have thought to hit a putt there.  So you know, it's  -- that's the only thing that's  a little bit suspect about the golf course is that the greens are, you know, I mean, if you are -- put it this way,  if I was standing here a couple under par and the ball-striking wasn't the best to my ability, I probably wouldn't realize how tricky the greens are.  But you know, I watched Se Ri 3-putt probably eight times in the last two days, and all of us struggled on the greens.  But I'd love to see it come back here.  I really enjoyed playing here. 

Q.   (Inaudible)
KARRIE WEBB: Well, like I already answered, hopefully this is just one tournament, you know, I think I have got at least 10 U.S. Opens left in me, so I have got, what, nine more years of exemption so can at least get that many together.  So you know, I don't know.  I played so many tournaments in my career that if you let this one just affect you, I probably wouldn't have won 27 times by now.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT