U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 2, 2002
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR:  Welcome to our first player press conference of 2002 United States U.S.  Open Championship.  Karrie Webb, the defending champ, two-time winner.
Are you ready for this, trying to get your third in a row?
KARRIE WEBB:  No.  It's good to be here.  I've been looking forward to this week all year.  I played a practice round yesterday, and I think, hopefully, as windy of conditions as we're going to get this week, but it was very tough out there.  But I feel, you know, that my game is in pretty good shape and hopefully will stay that way through the remainder of the week.

MODERATOR:  Did it boost your confidence to win two weeks ago?  Is this a good thing coming into this for you?
KARRIE WEBB:  Seeing good things happening as the weeks are going on.  I guess it was good that I won because I don't have to answer those questions today.  But, you know, even if I didn't win, I still played very well on the last day to even really give myself a chance, and I did a lot of good things at the right times, which I haven't done as much as I would have liked this year.  So that was probably what I got the most out of that tournament. 

MODERATOR:  We'll now take questions.  Any questions from the reporters?  Let's start right here in the front row, please.
Q.  Karrie, could you talk about the changes that you've undergone in the past few months and why you felt the need to do those and, you know, if you felt you started to see those changes reap benefits.
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, I think, for myself, I'm always trying to get better, and the changes that are made, although have been happening a little slower than I would have 
liked -- you know, hopefully down the road, and even hopefully this week, you know, they are changes that are going to make me a better player. 
So that's why I felt the need to do that.  I think you can never stop improving your game.  I think you've got to keep improving things in your game to keep up with the level of play, so that's why I felt that need.  And I think I have seen a lot of good things in the last couple weeks, and actually feel that my game is in as good a shape as it has been all year. 
I feel like I have pretty good control over everything, and my putting has been pretty good as well, so I feel like my game is in good enough shape to try to be in contention through the tournament.

Q.  Karrie, could you talk about the rivalry that has developed between you, yourself, Annika, and Se  Ri?  Talk about the rivalry and how it has benefited women's golf.
KARRIE WEBB:  I guess rivalry has just developed because the three of us have played consistently good golf over the last five or six, seven years, I guess.  And when three of us are up there and winning multiple events each every year, obviously comparisons are going to be drawn, and you know, I think it has been great for women's golf because a lot of you guys are writing about it and writing about the differences between the three of us, and similarities, and writing your predictions as to who is going to win each and every week.

Q.  Karrie, how much, if any, do you, this week, use the three straight as motivation?  Is that something you look forward to in terms of putting your name (inaudible)?
KARRIE WEBB:  Whether I won the last two years or never won at all, just playing in the U.S.  Open is enough motivation for me to just be excited to be here, and how I feel my game is in good enough shape to compete against the golf course.  And I just look forward to this week every year. 
And the fact that I'm going for three in a row, I think, is just an added bonus.  If I do happen to win this week, it's something that no one has ever done before, and I just don't  -- i don't think about the three  -- i can't think about the three in a row until I actually have a chance to win, I guess. 
And with all the records that have set and stuff like that over the last six and a half years, a lot of them, I haven't even known about it until after I've played good enough golf to break the record.  So that's sort of the way I think about this one, too.  I feel fortunate that I have a chance to do something no one has never done before, but I still have to get to that position first, to have a chance to win, so that's really what I'm trying to think about.

Q.  Karrie, you've won two of these in a row.  Annika comes in very hot this year.  Of the two players, who has the edge there?
KARRIE WEBB:  I don't know.  I know how I'm playing, and I feel like my game is in good enough shape to have a chance to win this week.  Obviously, Annika is playing unbelievable golf, and consistently great golf every week, and, obviously, you can't overlook her. 
And I wouldn't be surprised to see her on top of the leader board at some stage during the tournament.

Q.  How tough do you feel the golf course is compared to the last two years, and what do you think the winning score might be?
KARRIE WEBB:  Second question first.  I never know what the winning scores are going to be at any of the 
U.S. Opens.  It really is going to depend on the weather conditions, and with the rain it's going to soften up the greens and make the course a lot longer. 
Yesterday, with the wind as strong as it was, there was one Par 4 that I hit a 5.  I hit a 3-iron into the fifth hole, and a couple more on the Back 9 where I was hitting 3 and 4 irons into the wind yesterday. 
So it's hard to compare each Open course to one another but  -- you know, because each has its own test.  But I think with this course -- I think  -- i really like how it's set up because even though it's quite long in some of those holes into the wind, it's fair.  There is nothing unfair about it. 
The driving, landing areas are pretty generous, and if you miss the fairway, you're going to pay the penalty, which you always do at a U.S. Open, and the greens are small.  But even yesterday, before we had the rain today, they were soft out there.  You could still hit a green, hitting a 3 or 4 iron in, and you're rewarded  -- you're not hitting to a very big target with a 3 or 4 iron. 
And the fact they haven't set the greens extremely fast and hard, I think it's still a very fair test.  You're  -- there is going to be girls that can't reach some of the Par 4s this week, and they are going to have to be either laying up and trying to get up and down from there, or trying to get as close as they can, but I really think it's going to be a great test and a fair test, and I don't think you'll see anyone that's going to complain about it being unfair out there.

Q.  I've covered, I think, two other women who had a chance to win three in a row, and it turned out to be a trying time for them.  In the case of one, Betsy  King, I think she was out of it before she ever hit the first ball in the first round, so I was wondering if this is extra pressure for you, and if you think about that, and if there is anything you've done different to try to keep yourself focused on actually playing golf this week.
KARRIE WEBB:  I really haven't practiced any differently to any of the other ones that I've played in.  Like I said, I always look forward to this week at the start of every year when I set my schedule and I always look forward to this tournament.  And I haven't gone out of my way to do anything different or to try not to think about three in a row, or that I have a chance to win three in a row. 
And it's always going to be in the back of my mind, but like I said earlier, I've got four days of golf, and I've got to put myself in a position to even win 2002 before I can think about winning three in a row. 

Q.  I got two questions.  Do you have a routine that you followed the last two years in preparation for the Open, either through practice or events leading up to it? 
The other is:  How did you celebrate the two Open victories.
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, my routine when I won at the Merit Club, I played I think at least one week before  -- i'm not sure if I played more than that, but I at least played the tournament before the U.S.  Open. 
And last year I had the week off, so it just really, to me, depends on the year that I played leading up to the Merit Club was we played at Wykagyl in New  York, and I just  -- i feel that's a pretty good course to warm up to go into the Open, and it's a fairly good test. 
And the rough is normally up, so I felt that was a good preparation for the Open; whereas, last week's course, I didn't think at all was  -- sorry.  Last year I didn't think the course that we played before the Open -- I think it was in Corning, New  York  -- I didn't think that was a good warm-up to the Open. 
And same with the course last week, didn't think that was a good course to play leading up to the Open.  As for celebrating, I don't know, it's not wild and extravagant celebrations.  I think it takes a couple days both years for it to sink in, but I definitely celebrated and enjoyed the moment both times.

Q.  What do you think is a good type of course leading into the U.S.  Open?  What do you look for?
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, I think, like I said, with Wykagyl, the fairways are fairly tight, and there is a premium.  I'm hitting fairways at Wykagyl, which is always the case for an Open golf course.  And the greens aren't very big there, and the speed of the greens is pretty fast, so I try and  -- that is one of the main things. 
And then also good practice facilities at that course leading up is also another key, so I can play on a course similar to an Open golf course and also work on my game.

Q.  Yeah we've heard a lot about Annika's fitness training -- how many stomach crunches -- and she's won 14 events in a year and a half, and I wonder if that's impacted the Tour to change maybe cross-training or different training besides just playing golf.
KARRIE WEBB:  I think you obviously probably see a few more girls that weren't working out at all working out, but I think there has still been a priority on fitness among a lot of the players for many years now, and I think Annika is taking that to a different level, where she probably doesn't practice as much as she used to, and fits in a lot more time to work out; and obviously, it's definitely probably one of the things that has benefited her.

Q.  Karrie, two questions:  This tournament last year, is that about as well as you've ever played for four rounds?
KARRIE WEBB:  It would have to be pretty close.  It was definitely by far the best I played all of last year.  I didn't come close to playing the same sort of golf as I did at the Open last year, and it would be pretty close to as good as I've ever played.

Q.  How does your form at the moment compare with last year?
KARRIE WEBB:  I think I feel as good as I did leading into the Open last year as I do  -- i feel the same as I did last year as I do now.  Last year I was not playing particularly well leading  -- i was playing okay, and certain things were starting to click as to the lead-up to the Open, and my practice week  -- my week off, and the practice I did in the week off leading up to the Open last year was really good, and I felt really good about where my game was, and felt that I had a good chance, and that's how I feel this year, too. 
I won in Rochester and saw some good things happen there, and my practice last week just carried on from there, and I felt even more confident with certain parts of my game that I haven't felt confident with, so I feel like I'm at the same stage as I was last year.

Q.  What's the best part of your game?
KARRIE WEBB:  Just certain parts of my swing that I've been working on and my putting, my putting in Rochester was  -- i made a lot of good putts coming down the stretch to win the golf tournament, and I also hit some key shots, too, under pressure that when you've worked on a few things on your swing, sometimes you can stand on the range and do it perfectly, step up, and do it under pressure; sometimes you don't trust it. 
And, fortunately, I saw some really good shots under pressure coming down the stretch in Rochester.

Q.  Karrie, I was wondering if you could specifically address the changes that you made with your swing.  And I know you said that overall you need to keep improving, but was there a specific moment when you said "Hey, I've got to do something different here."
KARRIE WEBB:  Not really.  I think the changes that I've been working on aren't necessarily things that have just started this year.  It's sort of been a work in progress over the last couple years, actually, and sometimes you just can't do all the things you want to do straightaway.  If you do that, you're  -- you could probably have to take six months off just to make sure you get them, so I've just slowly been working a couple different things into my game, and I just would like to get to the point with my golf swing where I cannot have to work on that anymore, and just be content with where that is and be able to work on different shots that  -- you know, just  -- i don't know. 
There's near-miss shots that I can play, but I'd like to be able to work on them so I can step out under pressure and feel confident that I can pull it off more times than not.

Q.  Karrie, after a practice round here, are there places out on the course that you think offer really good scoring opportunities, places that you have to take advantage of?
KARRIE WEBB:  There is really only one hole that I can think of that you'd like to hope that you could birdie nearly every day, and that's the 7th hole.  With the prevailing wind, it's pretty much reachable.  Today, I mean, I hit a 3-wood in there today just because it was so wet, and not as much wind, but yesterday I hit a 5-iron in there. 
So you'd like to think that you could make the most of that hole, but there really isn't  -- i mean the birdie holes are out there, but I wouldn't say that there are holes that you stand on the tee and every day think it would be good to get a birdie here. 
I think even the short holes, you know, the third hole is  -- i hit a 5-iron A wedge in there yesterday, so you'd have to think that could be a scoring opportunity, but it's straight downwind second shot, and little bit of a elevated green.  You can't really see where you're hitting it, too, so I don't think there is too many  -- you take your birdies where you can get them and try not to make many bogies.

Q.  Of the two courses you've won an Open on, and this one here, how would you rate the ones that fit you best, or fit you least, any observation on that?
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, I'd like to think that my game can match up to most courses but, obviously, it doesn't.  You don't always feel comfortable on certain golf courses.  I probably felt more comfortable last year at Pine Needles than I did playing at the Merit  Club but, obviously, Pine Needles, I played one Open there before, so I think that's why I felt more confident at that golf course. 
But I think this one  -- i think maybe not so much at the Merit  Club, but Pine Needles, and this one I think you have to be a pretty good ball striker.  The only similarities with the last and this one, maybe, is just, you know, the Merit  Club, we had a lot of wind, and we're going to have a lot of wind here. 
And I just think the Merit  Club's greens weren't as small as these greens, and the Merit  Club played pretty hard and didn't probably play as long as this course is going to play.  So I think with the little suctions and undulations on the green, you're going to have to be pretty good, maybe, hitting the ball pretty well, to maybe be on the putting surface, and to get it on the right portion is going to be the trick as well.

Q.  What's the longest iron club that you're going to carry this week?
KARRIE WEBB:  3-iron.  That's what I carry every week.

Q.  Who looks after the dog when you when you're on the golf course?
KARRIE WEBB:  That's not my dog, that's Mr. Robbins' dog.

Q.  Misinterpretation?
KARRIE WEBB:  Yes.

Q.  Whose dog is it?
KARRIE WEBB:  Kelly Robbin's dad's dog, so not even close.

Q.  (Inaudible)?
KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah, it should be a good pairing.  Obviously, playing with Se  Ri, you know, she's playing very well this year, and that's probably going to be someone that I see at this early stage of the week that could possibly be in contention. 
So when you play with someone like that, you're going to have some good golf from the both of us, and maybe we can feed off each other.  I actually met Meredith Duncan last year before she won the U.S.  Amateur.  She seems like a nice girl, I've had a couple chats with her. 
Obviously, she's good enough to win the Amateur last year, and she's going to be fun to play also.

Q.  Karrie, good chance this is Nancy Lopez's last Open.  I was wondering if you could address that and your thoughts about it.
KARRIE WEBB:  It's been, I guess, a pretty emotional year because, for the most part, we probably weren't seeing Nancy playing a lot of the tournaments anymore, and it was good to see the USGA give her an invitation to play in the tournament this year, and I'm sure she definitely appreciates it, and so do the fans. 
And it's always good to have her at a tournament.  She's always brought a lot to women's golf, and continues to, so it's just good that she's got this send-off so that all the fans can thank her.

Q.  When is your Christopher Reeves charity Pro  Am?  Has it already been?
KARRIE WEBB:  No, it's the 22nd of July.

Q.  Who have you got lined up?
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, the nine LPGA players:  Myself, Meg Mallon, Michelle McGann, Nancy Scranton, Kelly Robbins, Pat Bradley, Beth Daniel  -- who have I forgotten?  Oh, Rachel Teske.  One more.  Let me see.  Who have I forgotten?  It will come to me. 

Q.  How much have you raised?
KARRIE WEBB:  I think in the two years, pretty close to half a million dollars.

Q.  For the rest of us, Karrie, would you explain your involvement with this, where it's going to take place and what it is exactly.
KARRIE WEBB:  The name of the day is Karrie Webb Celebrity Pro  Am and benefits the Christopher Reeves Paralysis Foundation, and the day is, there is nine LPGA players and nine celebrities, so 18 groups, and each group gets to play with one LPGA player and one celebrity, and like I said, it's on the 22nd of July, and Christopher Reeves  -- this year the dinner is on the same day as the outing, so Christopher Reeves will probably be there for the dinner, and it's really a lot of fun. 
The last couple years it's been a very special day.  We have a clinic in the morning and some lunch, and then we go out and play an 18-hole scramble, and this year the dinner is on the same night.  We have an auction and everyone  -- everyone that's  -- that plays in it, most of the amateurs are involved in some way with the Christopher Reeves Paralysis Foundation, so it's a very special day, and everyone seems to have a lot of fun.

Q.  What's the location? 
KARRIE WEBB:  It's at the Century Club in 
New York City.

Q.  Also, is your involvement in this because of the paralysis of your long-time teacher?
KARRIE WEBB:  That's how I got involved with it, yeah.  I guess it must have been '97, I think, was the first time I played the LPGA Skins game, and part of your winnings goes to a charity of your choice. 
And at that time Christopher Reeves developed his own foundation, and I happened to read it in People magazine, so that's how I got hooked up with them, that I ended up donating a portion of my Skins game money to them.  And they wanted to know why I wanted to be involved, so that's how the relationship started.

Q.  One last question for Karrie:  Does anybody have one last question?  Karrie, your life was hectic two years ago winning almost every week.  How has it changed now?  Is it different now?  Is being out of the limelight kind of nice, or how is that?
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, I don't know if it's changed a whole lot.  You know, I still think that my schedule at the golf course is pretty similar.  I probably just haven't had as many requests in off weeks that I've had in the past, which, you know, is good to have a break from every now and then.

MODERATOR:  Thank you very much, Karrie.  Really, good luck this week and we wish you well. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT