MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY AIG
June 5, 2002
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.: I will give you an opportunity to talk.  I know you came to Media Day, but can you just talk about being back here for tournament week?
KARRIE WEBB:  Okay.  It feels good to be back,  and it's good to get back out on the course, it's  definitely changed a little bit since last year as far as  the setup.  I think it's probably going to play as tough  as I have ever seen it.  The fairways are in great shape  but the rough is probably twice as long as it has been in  past years, and the greens are extremely firm and fast,  so I haven't seen the greens putt this fast ever before,  so there is not much point in having played here for six  years because it really is playing a lot different. 

Q.:   You havenÃƒï¿½Ã‚ ¹t played much this year.  Is that a strategy?
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, I played a lot -- I  played -- what was it -- six out of seven weeks at the  beginning, and then played a couple -- I played a couple  there in the middle and just played last week, but the  majority of the tournaments are coming up now, I am  playing 11 tournaments out of the next 13 weeks, so I  didn't see much point in (inaudible) and then being tired  for this next stretch.     

Q.:   Karrie, do you have to play your best this week to have a chance to win, or can you not be at the top of your game  and still find a way to contend?
KARRIE WEBB:  I think I can -- I think if I am  at the top of my game, then I probably will contend, but  if I am not, a lot of things -- you know, I think I can  contend, but a lot of things have to go right.  You know,  really.  I think if I am not at the top of my game, my  short game really has to, you know, keep me in the  tournament pretty much. 

Q.:   You almost make it sound like this is the start of the year, in a way.
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, I guess it is a little bit.   I just think that, you know, the bulk of the big  tournaments are between now and the end of August, and if  you play well in the next two or three months, it pretty  much makes your year, it doesn't matter how well you have  played earlier unless you have won four tournaments like  Annika, but, you know, anyone else, you know, if you miss  the boat in the next couple of months, it really will  determine where you finish on the money list at the end  of the year. 

Q.:   Did you find it hard during two or three months of those really, really strong seasons you have had to keep it going from  January or February through November, to keep it at a high level through the duration?
KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah, I think so.  I think most  are just from, you know, in those years it was, you know,  I think -- well, last year was the first year, British  Open was a major, so 2000, '99 and 2000, you know, once I  played Du Maurier, that was when I found it hard to keep at  a top level, I think.  I think I pretty much had -- I kept it pretty  well up until then, and then it was sort of a fight until  the end of the year, you know, not that I played poorly,  but just -- it wasn't as good as it had been early on in  the year to the middle. 

Q.:   Karrie, you mentioned that this course seems different than any of the six years you have played here before because of the roughs and everything.  Does that change your mind-set, your approach coming into this at all?  Do you approach your shots differently now?
KARRIE WEBB:  Oh, I think yeah, definitely.  You know, the fronts of the greens are pretty much your yardages, hitting wedges at 12, 15 yards in some places,  so, you know, really, you have to manage your game a  little bit better.  I think you can get away with not managing it  as well in the last couple years but, you know, if the course stays the way it is now, keep the greens the same  way, and keep the roughs the same length, the last three  years it's been double digits, under par is 1, well into  double digits, so I think anyone that reaches double  digits this week has played extremely well.  Unless we get absolutely no breeze, I really don't see that  happening. 

Q.:   Do you see any parts of the course that can be particularly hazardous that you definitely want to stay away from?
KARRIE WEBB:  Just the rough. 

Q.:   Is that the worst you have seen it?
KARRIE WEBB:  It's actually -- I think it's -- I  could almost say it's worse than US Open rough, I think.   It's pretty thick. 

Q.:   Did you hit the fairways out there during your Pro-Am?
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, in a Pro Am, hopefully, most  people -- 1 out of 5 people hit the fairway.  

Q.:   Do you think that's a good thing in a major to have rough like this, or do you think it's too much?
KARRIE WEBB:  No, I think -- it's not too much.   I think this course, when we used to play it in the middle of May, for me, the first few years when we played it in the middle of May, it played pretty long just  because it was so wet.  The last couple years it's played pretty dry and, you know, it's played probably a little too short for a major, and it's still going to play that  short, but if you miss the fairway, it doesn't matter if  you have got a wedge in your hand or a 7-iron in your  hand, you are pretty much only going to be able to move  it so far anyway.  And even, like I said, hitting a wedge into the  green, I am getting 12 yards release, so I have talked  about battling my patience here over the years.  It will  come down to the person who is the most patient and  realizes that people are going to make more bogeys here  this year than they have before, and realize that, you  know, like myself, that I have to realize that I am going  to make bogeys as well, and just try and just keep them  to bogeys and -- because I think in the rough, the way  the rough is, it really is a lottery, if you are going to  get up and down -- I think if you are going to get up and  down one out of every three times you are in there you  will be happy. 

Q.: Will you change your game at all with the rough?
KARRIE WEBB:  Off the tees, you mean?  

Q.:   Yeah.
KARRIE WEBB:  In some places.  Because you obviously -- I mean, I don't think the course plays that  short where you don't ever have a full shot in, but, you  know, like off the first tee I have hit driver most  years, I am just going to hit 3-wood this year because  back with my 3-wood, it's nearly doubled the width of the  fairway or at least an extra 10 yards of landing area,  and because I am only playing front yardages because of  how much release I am getting, I am still only going to  hit a 9-iron onto the front.  That's just -- you just got to think a little bit differently. 

Q.:   Did you play in the rough yesterday?
KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah, a couple times. 

Q.:   Is it wedge-out rough?
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, it's a bit of a lottery.   You can pull a good lie and perhaps -- the course is  fairly firm all the way through, so the one thing here at  DuPont Country Club is that most of the fronts of the  green are open, so you can still run it up, but you could  get parts where it's wedge-out. 

Q.:   Karrie, what's the state of your game?  Are you seeing  improvement?
KARRIE WEBB:  I think I am.  Last week I had a  fairly decent week, I just didn't finish it off very well  on Sunday, but I am finding the first six years of my  career I was a terrible practice round player, and virtually didn't feel too good going into any tournament  and then played well in tournaments, obviously, and this  year I have been an excellent practice round player, and  just haven't quite taken it on to the tournament round.  So that's why I say I feel pretty good about my  game, because it is there, I just have to -- yeah, maybe  just feel a little bit more, you know, early on in the  tournaments, just try and feel like I do in practice  rounds and try and make the same swings. 

Q.:   Other than yourself, who do you like to win this week?
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, I mean, I never really pick  anybody.  I think everyone has a chance to win, and, you  know, with the way the course is set up, it could be a  short or a long hitter who wins this week, just whoever  hits the fairways and the greens.  And putting is not going to be any bargain out  there, either.  Sometimes you think it's a relief to get  on the green, but we have never seen the greens here that  fast, so you are going to see a lot of people 3-putt out  here, and hopefully you won't see too many more than  3-putt, but you might see it occasionally.  You know, obviously you can't overlook Annika,  I mean, I think she is playing the best golf of her  career, and she is head and shoulders above everyone out  here at the moment.     

Q.:   Do you ever think about the Grand Slam in one year after Nabisco?
KARRIE WEBB:  I don't know.  Such a long way to go.  I mean, obviously people talked to me about it when  I won in 2000, but it's such a -- I mean, by no means is  it lucky to win the Grand Slam one year, but you have to  get your game to peak at all four weeks, and you have to  like all four golf courses.  Now, Nabisco, and here are the same courses,  but the US Open changes every year and so does the  British Open, and Du Maurier, too, so you have to -- your  game has to fit those two courses as well, so, I mean, it  would be an unbelievable feat if someone ever could do  it. 

Q.:   Since Annika is playing head and shoulders above everyone, do you give her a pretty good chance?
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, Annika could win any golf tournament she plays in, so I guess that's a pretty good chance. 

Q.:   Talking about unbelievable feats, or feats that haven't yet been achieved, but one that you have achieved, what about the US Open, how are you starting to approach that?
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, at this stage of the game I am hoping that -- you know, I feel good about my game  this week, I think my game is good enough to win, or at least contend here this week, but the progress that I am  seeing in my game, I am hoping that it's going to peak  the week of the US Open.  And obviously, just to win, you know, a couple  years ago, hadn't even won one US Open, so to talk about  winning three in a row is something that I would love to  do, but I actually have to win the one in July in  Hutchinson before it is three in a row, but, you know, I  am trying not to think about that tournament right now as  far as getting myself ready for this one because this one  is not going to be any bargain this week. 

Q.:   How difficult is this week for you compared to how  everything was last year?
KARRIE WEBB:  I think, fortunately, it's two  weeks earlier than last year, so I haven't had to deal  with the actual anniversary of anything, so -- 

Q.:   Do you have any family this week here?
KARRIE WEBB:  No, I don't. 

Q.:   As a youngster, was Nancy Lopez somebody you admired or  followed?
KARRIE WEBB:  I think Nancy -- you know, I have  talked about this, you know, and it might be just because  I came from such a small town in Australia, but I didn't  know a lot about women's golf, but I knew, you know, a  few names, and obviously Nancy Lopez was obviously one of those names, and I can't say that I was someone who grew  up watching her play because we never got women's events  televised in Australia until the last few years, but just  to know what she has accomplished, and I have learned  more about what she has done probably in the last seven  years since I have been out here, but just to know what  she has accomplished on and off the golf course, it's  great to have gotten to know her and play with her and  sit in the locker room and chat with her and stuff like  that over the last few years. 

Q.:   The way Annika has been playing, has she, sort of, upped  the ante, and do you think it's up to everyone else to  try to raise her level and challenge her rather than that  she cools off?
KARRIE WEBB:  I think that's what we would like  to do.  You know, I haven't -- I wouldn't say I have  increased my work load, but, you know, I felt like I have  always worked hard and, you know, it's just, I think, for  me it's just a matter of, you know, just trying to get on  a roll like that.  You know, she is obviously playing with a lot  of confidence, and I think one thing that, you know, a  few years ago might have been letting her down a little  bit was her putter, and I think she is feeling very  confident with that right now.  I mean, anyone that shoots 21 under for three rounds is putting pretty well. 

Q.:   They say it's going to rain pretty good tonight.  Will  that affect you on Thursday?
KARRIE WEBB:  As far as how I am going to play  the course or how the course will play?  

Q.:   Well, let's say it's going to rain pretty good, a lot of  rain is going to happen right into Thursday morning.
KARRIE WEBB:  Okay. 

Q.:   So I don't know how that affects your game.
KARRIE WEBB:  My game mentally or -- I think you  just play the course for what it is.  You know, obviously  if we get as much rain as predicted, obviously the greens  won't play as hard, or probably won't putt as fast,  either, so it will be an adjustment, I think, for  everyone, not just myself. 

Q.:   What's the most confident you have ever felt?
KARRIE WEBB:  Over a period or at a tournament?  

Q.:   At a tournament.
KARRIE WEBB:  I don't know.  Maybe at the US  Open last year. 

Q.:   Is that once you knew that you were in before it rained?
KARRIE WEBB:  No, it actually was -- it was the  whole week and the lead-up.  I just remember Thursday  morning before I tee'd off I was -- well, I felt -- I  think I was really nervous, I am always really nervous before a tee-off at the US Open, but I was really anxious  because I knew how good I was playing and I was just  anxious to get started and anxious and hoping that, you  know, as good as I felt about my game, that it was going  to be that way on the golf course. 

Q.:   That's funny because most people say that winning is what  brings confidence, and that was your first win, wasn't  it?
KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah, for the LPGA win. 

Q.:   Any explanation for that?
KARRIE WEBB:  No.  

Q.:   You are a big help.
KARRIE WEBB:  No, I just think -- I don't know,  I think you can feel when your game is peaking and I  think I felt like it came into shape right at the right  time. 

Q.:   I guess it pretty much peaked that week?
KARRIE WEBB:  It was by far the best I played  all year. 

Q.:   How -- do you mind if I ask another one?  How do you  think majors are perceived on this tour?
KARRIE WEBB:  By who?  

Q.:   Both players and public.  I mean, everyone knows on the  men's side 18 is the number of the day.  Do you think  Kathy's number of 88 or -- I can't even tell you, Vicki.... 
KARRIE WEBB:  Patty Berg? 

Q.:   Patty Berg?  What's a better year, more majors or more  victories?  Whoever has got the most wins or whoever has  got the most majors?
KARRIE WEBB:  I don't know.  It just depends.   If Annika only wins one major and wins ten tournaments to  compare to someone's one major or two majors, I think ten  tournaments and a major is pretty impressive.  So I don't  know, you can't really judge -- you can't make a judgment  on every year, just -- you know, it doesn't go for every  single year, I think, it just depends on how people play. 

Q.:   Is there anything -- ten wins and no majors or two majos and no wins which would you rather win?
KARRIE WEBB:  Two majors. 

Q.:   Is this year or last year maybe the first time that you  have started to gather your schedule around the majors?
KARRIE WEBB:  I think I have always tried to do  it but I think probably more in the last three years that  I have really -- you know, I think I have tried not to be  too tired before I have gotten to June, I think, is, you  know, what I have tried to do, tried to be fresh for  these tournaments. 

Q.:   With the notable exception of last year's British Open?
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, yeah.  You know, the decision I made to play Bighorn was -- well, when it was  brought to my attention that it could be a possibility,  Annika had already said that she was interested, and I  said, well, that's easy for her to say, she has already  one won major this year, and that was Nabisco, and we  hadn't played any and then I won the US Open and  obviously then, just after that was when I had to make  the decision, and I said I won one too, so -- and I  didn't want to miss out on it, either.  I probably would  have still said yes even if I hadn't won one, but it was  a lot easier to make that decision. 

Q.:   Karrie, when you are not competing here in Wilmington,  Delaware, what would you like to do to relax?
KARRIE WEBB:  I like to go fishing a little bit  if the weather is good; I am a bit of a fair weather  fisherman, I think. 

Q.:   Have you gotten a tour of Greg's new boat yet?
KARRIE WEBB:  No, I haven't.  I don't get to the  West Coast of Australia very often, but no, I have read a  lot about it, heard a lot about it. 

Q.:   He wouldn't be able to park it outside his front door,  say, in Florida?
KARRIE WEBB:  I think it will probably be too  big.  I think -- unless he drags it 10 feet all the way  from there out to the ocean, at least 10 feet.  Yeah, I don't think he will be parking it at his house. 

Q.:   Have you put in a request to go fishing on it?
KARRIE WEBB:  I have not, no. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT