TYCO/ADT CHAMPIONSHIP
November 17, 2001
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, it wasn't very pretty, but I did the job, I guess.  I got off to a pretty slow start.  A few bogeys in a row on the Front  9.  I was pretty frustrated with myself.  You know, I think by the time I got to the 10th tee, I knew that I had, you know, a big Back  9 ahead of me as far as how hard it was going to play.  You know, I just managed to calm down and hit some fairways and greens, not get into too much trouble.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  Pretty good.  I feel like I stole one on 15.  But without that, still would have been 1-under at even par.  That's still pretty good the way the Back  9 played today.  
 
Q.  When you go to 10, are you thinking, "If I can get out of here, level on the back, that's good"?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah.  Obviously, I would have liked to have maybe got one or two, which I did.  If I didn't do any more damage and finished at 3-under, I thought that I'd be pretty close to leading.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible)? 
 
KARRIE WEBB:  No, it started after 5.  It just took till about 10 to sink in.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible) bogeys?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, just really poor decisions, though, I think.  You know, I don't know how my 4-iron  -- sorry, that's 4.  4 was a bad tee shot.  But 5, I really don't know how my 4-iron went that far.  I think I really just misjudged the wind.  I don't think it was hurting us as much as I thought it was.  Just was in the wrong place on the green.  I could probably hit a hundred putts from where I hit my first putt, and not hit any within six feet probably.  That just was a bad club choice there, I think, misjudge of the wind.  Then 6, I really don't know if it was a bad decision.  At the start of the week I said if the tee was on the front and the pin was in the back, I wouldn't go for the green.  If I'm in the front bunkers, I don't have a shot.  I hit it in the front bunkers and I didn't have a shot.  I 3-putted.  
 
Q.  How far was the 3-putt?  40 feet?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah, 40 feet probably.  
 
Q.  Did you miss the green after your drive? 
 
KARRIE WEBB:  What was that?  
 
Q.  4. 
 
KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah, I missed the green.  Well, I hit  -- I had to hit 5-iron in because I hit a terrible tee shot in the right rough, ended up being pin-high in the right rough.  I chipped it to about five feet, missed the putt.  
 
Q.  Annika was a shot up on you with six to play.  Three shots heading into tomorrow, you still have to have your guard up out here. 
 
KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah.  Well, I wasn't leading after six holes today, with a four-shot lead.  You know, I knew how quickly it could be before I started today.  Today just shows everyone how quickly it can go.  
 
Q.  On 18, did you see the perils that Annika was facing?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  I didn't know that she had hit it in the water until I hit my tee shot.  It took every bit of thought for me to know what I was going to do on 17 tee.  So I didn't know she hit it in the water till I'd hit my tee shot.  I looked over there.  She was walking along the edge of the water.  
 
Q.  You generally have a bit of a draw with your shots.  How tough does that make 17?  Did you have to take it out over the water? 
 
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, I think in that situation, like I said to Mike, in a practice round I could easily hit a cut into the wind, probably pull it off seven out of ten times.  To me, in that situation, I just wanted to put it on the green somewhere.  The hardest part of that was just I couldn't tell if the wind was crossing from the right and helping or crossing from the right and hurting.  I just didn't know what club to hit.  I ended up hitting a little 5-iron.  Hit it on the back left edge of the green.  I started it probably a yard to the right of the pin.  
 
Q.  This time of year everyone is tired.  How exhausted are you (inaudible)?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, when my alarm went off this morning, I didn't really want to get out of bed.  I like the 1:00 tee times, except that we finish in the dark.  We can't have everything, I guess.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  7:30.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, we play the tee out today.  Wherever we play it, it's a tough tee shot.  I don't even know if it's easier from the front tee.  The front tee, you really have to bite more off so you don't run out to the left, whereas on the back tee, you really can play safe, what I did the last two days, hit it in the left rough.  It's not the best place to be, but you don't have as hard a shot into the green.  So, you know, I don't know where.  It will depend on where the wind blows, the way we play it, or where they put the pin.  You know, I'm favoring the left every time I stand on that tee, I guess.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  I hit driver today.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  No.  415 or something from the back tee.  
 
Q.  How did you find the pin placements today? 
 
KARRIE WEBB:  There's still a few funky ones out there (laughter).  I birdied 16, but I hit it exactly where I had to hit it.  I didn't know that when I was standing back on the fairway.  If you hit a pure shot at the pin there, came up three yards short, you didn't have a decent putt at the pin.  There's a few pins like that.  Again, the pins are just tough.  There wasn't a lot  -- there were more tough ones than unfair pins.  You just have to play the shots and hope that your lag putting is pretty good for the day. 
 
Q.  Did you notice the right side of the 7th green had been web (inaudible)?  They shaved it. 
 
KARRIE WEBB:  I'll probably look at that tomorrow now (laughter).  
 
Q.  We were told it was shaved. 
 
KARRIE WEBB:  I don't know.  
 
Q.  I'm wondering, that being the case, how fair that is to make that kind of adjustment on a course in the middle of the tournament?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  I know Donald was standing on the tee when I hit that shot.  I wondered why it wasn't shaved down.  I would have been in the water if it hadn't have been.  I don't know, doesn't matter.  I seriously didn't look there today.  Hard enough as it was.  I was just trying to hit the green.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible)? 
 
KARRIE WEBB:  Yes and no.  I mean, it hasn't played that way yet in the history of THE TOUR Championship.  You just play the course that you get to play.  I don't know.  (Inaudible) still wouldn't be that many people under par.  If there wasn't any wind out here, there would be a lot of people under par.  I mean, this course is a good course, but like any course plays tough in the wind.  This course is one of those courses that there isn't a wind that makes it play easy either.  We've had northwest the last two days before today, then northeast.  There's no wind that makes it play easy.  If there's any breeze out there at all, it plays tough.  
 
Q.  The stat sheet says you won 15 of the 23 times you went into the final round with a lead.  Does that sound like a good number to you?  Should it be higher?  Do you think of yourself as a good closer?  If you do, what makes you a good closer? 
 
KARRIE WEBB:  I don't know.  I've been on tour for six years, won 25 times.  I'm not patting myself on the back, but I think I know how to win a golf tournament.  You know, whether I win or not tomorrow, I put myself in there with a chance to win - and that's what you've got to do.  That's all you can ask for, is to do that.  I've got a tough 18 holes to play tomorrow.  Hopefully, you know, I'll hang in there like I did today and be holding the trophy after the 18th hole.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible)? 
 
KARRIE WEBB:  You just have to play.  Obviously, it was nice to have a four-shot cushion at the start of the day.  You know, you just play.  I knew Annika got to 4-under, but I really stop worry about trying to lead at the end of the day, stop thinking about that; just think one shot at a time, not get myself into any more trouble.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible) "Whatever it is, just go play." 
 
KARRIE WEBB:  I'm not human if I don't complain about some things, I guess.  You know, you can't do much about the weather.  I mean, that's just going to be tough when the wind blows.  You know, the course is set up to play tough.  I knew that.  Obviously, I was out here last week.  I knew it was going to play tough.  You know, I don't know, you just play it.  If it was set up to have 20 under, you have to go out, hit it close, make putts.  
 
Q.  The only complaint you have today is having to get out of bed?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah.  But I can sleep in on Monday.  I won't be able to go fishing now because it's too windy. 
 
Q.  You have two months to rest up. 
 
KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible) fishing in the wind like this. 
 
KARRIE WEBB:  I was hoping it wouldn't this weekend so I could go fishing on Monday.  It's going to blow tomorrow, too.  Even if it didn't blow tomorrow, it still would be too rough to fish on Monday.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  23 foot.  
 
KARRIE WEBB:  Yes.  15, I hit a 5-iron.  It was in the front hazard.  I chipped it to about 12 feet, 15 feet probably, holed the putt.  16, I hit a 9-iron to 18 feet.  
 
Q.  How many yards?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  116. 
 
Q.  How far did you hit your 9-iron? 
 
KARRIE WEBB:  130.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah.  I figured it was playing  -- because it's downhill from that fairway.  I was thinking it was probably playing about 125.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  At the end?  
 
Q.  Yes. 
 
KARRIE WEBB:  Wendy.  We had had to get a ruling on 17.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT