TYCO/ADT CHAMPIONSHIP
November 16, 2001
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








KARRIE WEBB:  3, I hit a 5-wood just through the back left and chipped it to a foot.  7, I hit a 5-iron pin-high right in the rough just out of the hazard and chipped it in.  11, I missed the green left with a 5-iron in the green-side bunker, then hit it out to, I don't know, 40 feet, 2-putted.  13, hit a 6-iron on the green to about 30 feet and 3-putted.  15, I laid up and hit a sand wedge to 15 feet, made the putt. 

Q.  The way the scores were going out there today, do you almost philosophically approach it different, almost, "Give me a par, get me out of here," then more strategically try to take your shots, I guess? 

KARRIE WEBB:  Well, I  --.

Q.  Do you play safe or smart?

KARRIE WEBB:  You always play smart, though, when it's windy like that, and you have pin positions.  When the conditions are tough, you always play smart and be aggressive when you can.  That's how I played yesterday.  I didn't really change anything today.  Really, you know, up until 14, I was tied for the lead, and there were two people at 3-under.  You know, the scores really weren't that bad for the day until I got around to the 16 green.  I saw Wendy had hit it in the water on 17.  She was more than likely going to make double.  Then everyone else was at 1-under.  You know, just that gap of three holes, you know, changed everything.  Didn't really change the way I played.  When the conditions are that tough, it calls for, you know, smart, smart golf, conservative golf at times, take your chances when you can. 

Q.  (Inaudible)? 

KARRIE WEBB:  Not big enough.  I mean, you've seen a lot of players, you know, lose three and four shots in a matter of two or three holes.  You know, that can quite quickly happen to anyone out here.  I'm included in that.  You know, I'll sort of have to play very solidly for the next two days to have a chance to win. 

Q.  (Inaudible) drop four shots. 

KARRIE WEBB:  Thanks for telling me that (laughter). 

Q.  You played it smart.  Just tried to get out of it with a par?

KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah.  But I don't need to hear those stories, though. 

Q.  What was going through your mind as you watched Annika (inaudible)? 

KARRIE WEBB:  Can you say that again? 

Q.  What went through your mind as you watched your playing partner (inaudible)?

KARRIE WEBB:  I don't know.  It's only Friday.  You don't really concern yourself with what your playing partner's doing.  Obviously, when we're both playing well, like yesterday, we were feeding off each other.  You know, it's always nice to watch your playing partner hit good shots because, you know, it's not as good to look up and watch someone hit into trouble.  You know, it changes your mindset a little bit when you're hitting.  You know, I just tried to play my own game and tried to finish the day in the lead if I could. 

Q.  (Inaudible)?

KARRIE WEBB:  There were a few tough pins that you couldn't really get at at all.  You know, you're just happy to hit it to 20 or 30 feet and take your two putts.  I know from being out here this time last week how wet and soggy the course was.  They haven't put a drop of water on it since then, I'm assuming.  You know, with the wind the last few days, the greens have really dried up.  They're still holding pretty well, but they're pretty slippery if you're hitting downwind, down-grain, downhill.  Any of those putts, you know, you really have to watch yourself.  You can't play them too aggressively. 

Q.  (Inaudible)? 

KARRIE WEBB:  17 is fine.  It would have been a 4-iron for me today to hit it back there.  There's just no need.  Just take your three and get out of there.  But that's fine.  I mean, the pins that I'm talking about, you know, 8 was a weird pin.  I hit it past pin-high right.  I think I could have honestly hit it two foot past the hole.  If I was a little unfortunate, it could have hit a little bit of down-grain and been off the green.  You have to hit it past the hole there because if you hit it short, you're putting up a tier.  That was not that easy.  10 wasn't a great pin either.  It was sort of on a downslope at the front.  There wasn't a lot of dodgey pins as in unfair, just some tough pins, pins that you had a leave alone and hit to the safe part of the green and 2-putt.  There's nothing wrong with that.  At this time of the year, a lot of people - I'm definitely one - are mentally tired.  A lot of people make more mistakes this time of the year than they do halfway through the year. 

Q.  (Inaudible)?

KARRIE WEBB:  I don't know.  I'm not going to set any score.  I'd take winning by one.  I don't care (laughter).

Q.  (Inaudible) to a bad start, do you stop watching?

KARRIE WEBB:  A little bit.  I pretty much do that anyway, depending on who I'm playing with.  I don't normally watch people hit their tee shot, especially on a tee shot I might not feel too good about myself.  That's normally what I do.   I watched a few of her shots.  Annika's shots weren't really hit badly off course.  She only made bogey.  She didn't make any double bogeys.  It wasn't anything that was, you know, concerning me.  She didn't hit anything into the water that made me not want to watch. 

Q.  (Inaudible)? 

KARRIE WEBB:  Well, it's 235 or something to the front of the green at the pin today.  It's easy to do in a practice round.  It's easy to stand up there and smash it at the green.  I didn't have a problem in the practice round.  But, you know, standing there waiting for the group to get off the green, you know, wondering if it's the smartest play in the world, I don't know, I was pretty nervous.  I chickened out on the drive and ended up not being in the best position.  But still I had a crack at it.  Hitting wedge shots into right-to-left cross-breeze isn't the easiest thing either.  I didn't feel like it was the worst play in the world. 

Q.  Do you feel like you lost an opportunity to really take command?

KARRIE WEBB:  Not really.  I didn't hit as many fairways today, so I didn't hit it as close to the pin as I did yesterday.  The fact that I got out under par, and there's only two of us that did it, I feel like that was a bit of an accomplishment.  I didn't feel like I played nearly as well as I did yesterday. 

Q.  Why I ask, you were 7-under at 10. 

KARRIE WEBB:  I don't know people shot under par on the Back  9 today. 

Q.  (Inaudible)? 

KARRIE WEBB:  Just a bad swing. 

Q.  (Inaudible)?

KARRIE WEBB:  Up at the green, yeah. 

Q.  (Inaudible)?

KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah, I mean, you're pretty satisfied to walk off that green with a three because you know how much trouble you could get into. 

Q.  (Inaudible) was that much more difficult?

KARRIE WEBB:  I actually think if the wind blows out of the northeast at all this weekend, which they're calling for, the Front  9 plays more difficult.  But with a northwest wind that we've had, the Back  9 plays more difficult.  It's just a different wind.  The Back  9 is a more difficult 9.  But if the wind is out of the northeast or the east, the 2-par threes on the Front  9 are going to be 3-irons to back pins.  You know, there's going to be pretty tough.  With the wind helping us the last couple of days, it's made those holes play just a little bit easier. 

KARRIE WEBB:  Thank you. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT