TYCO/ADT CHAMPIONSHIP
November 15, 2001
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








KARRIE WEBB:  I think it started off a little shaky.  I haven't really played a competitive round in four or five weeks.  Took me a while to settle into the round.  You know, after that I really played some good golf.  I hit some really good iron shots.  Really, you know, had some decent putts out there.  I feel like, you know, I wasn't in too much trouble.  I now remember I had three bogeys.  I said I only had two.  Mike was right.  I really hit the ball well.  Besides those three holes, never really got into too much trouble. 


Q.  (Inaudible)? 

KARRIE WEBB:  It's a different course.  I mean, it's not a typical Florida course.  Because of its indifference to Florida courses, I really like it.  There's parts of it that you feel like you're probably in South Carolina, Georgia area, and then there's other parts where it does feel a little more like South Florida.  I think the way the course is set up, it's a challenge, but it also rewards someone that plays a little more aggressively and is playing well.  You can be penalized very badly if you do play aggressively and do miss shots. 

Q.  (Inaudible)? 

KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah, I think so.  The closing three holes are really going to be an exciting finish, depending on the way the wind blows.  I think especially if the wind starts to blow out of the east again, 18 will play into the wind a little bit more, and 16 will play a little different, too.  But all in all, I think, you know, it's definitely a tournament-style golf course.  It's set up well for us.  I think it's still going to give up some high numbers. 

Q.  (Inaudible)? 

KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah, four or five weeks.

Q.  (Inaudible)? 

KARRIE WEBB:  Probably.  I probably had four weeks off, I guess.  I had two weeks totally off, then I've been practicing since then.  I played the Wendy's Three Tour Challenge last week.  I've been playing and practicing for a couple weeks. 

Q.  (Inaudible)? 

KARRIE WEBB:  Well, I think just to try and finish off the year on a positive note.  It wouldn't damage my year if I didn't play well.  You know, I think it's always nice to go into the off-season playing well in the last tournament. 

Q.  Sleeping in your own bed this week?

KARRIE WEBB:  Yes.

Q.  That must be nice. 

KARRIE WEBB:  It's very nice. 

Q.  (Inaudible) seem to play off each other?

KARRIE WEBB:  I don't think we  -- we birdied the same holes, I think.  I don't think there were many holes where we didn't birdie just a couple probably. 

Q.  How much is it her responding to your shot or you responding to hers?

KARRIE WEBB:  It's not like that.  Sure, I think it happens anytime someone hits a good shot.  If you're second to hit in there, you want to hit a good shot behind them.  Whether you do or not remains to be seen.  I think we both just wanted to get off to a good start in the tournament.  The fact that we were playing together, it's probably a bonus because we do play well, normally play well together.

Q.  (Inaudible)?

KARRIE WEBB:  Well, I think she's definitely putting better.  In the last few years she's always hit a lot of greens, but she's definitely putting better.  I think, you know, I know when I started putting better a couple years ago, it just feeds through your whole game.  You start hitting it better after you start putting better.  I think the biggest key to her year is she's made more putts.

Q.  Do you remember the last time you played (inaudible)? 

KARRIE WEBB:  I don't know.  I'd have to sit and think about it. 

Q.  (Inaudible)?

KARRIE WEBB:  But on the LPGA Tour. 

Q.  65 or 66 there. 

KARRIE WEBB:  64, 65, yeah.  Sorry, I can't remember. 

Q.  Do you like playing with her more than anyone else?

KARRIE WEBB:  Doesn't matter.  We don't tend to talk.  Actually, we probably talked more today than we do on average.  I think it just depends on the circumstance.  If it was the last round of a tournament today, probably wouldn't have said a whole lot to each other.  Unless I'm playing with one of my best friends, I don't talk to the person I'm playing with in the last group on the last day often anyway.  Not that that is a tactic or whatever, it's just that I need to really concentrate on what I'm doing.  It seems hard to make idle chitchat with someone that you don't really know that well, when you're trying to win a tournament, when you're both trying to win a tournament.

Q.  On 17, right when the TV went on, you started (inaudible)?

KARRIE WEBB:  So we didn't do that on TV (laughter). 

Q.  None of us saw it happen. 

KARRIE WEBB:  Well, I actually misjudged the wind there and hit it short right on the green.  But I probably had, I don't know, a 50-, 60-footer.  I 3-putted.  Annika missed the green left in the hazard.  Long story short, she didn't get up and down. 

Q.  (Inaudible)?

KARRIE WEBB:  5-iron.

Q.  (Inaudible)?

KARRIE WEBB:  I think I got away with a bit of a miss there.  You know, I had a pretty good lie.  It was actually a little fluffier than I thought.  It sort of came out a lot softer than I thought, but it still landed on the front of the green with lots of topspin and rolled up to the pin.

Q.  (Inaudible)?

KARRIE WEBB:  I would have been happy to get out of there with 4-under.  I'll definitely take 5. 

Q.  (Inaudible) a problem at all?

KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah, because I had a 50-, 60-footer on 17.  You can't see the line as well.  I had to have the pin tended.  Not that you can't see the hole, but you just don't get a good feel on the pace of the putt when it's starting to get dark like that.

Q.  Hit it short?

KARRIE WEBB:  I hit it about six, seven feet past.

Q.  (Inaudible)?

KARRIE WEBB:  A positive.  As long as I kept giving myself chances, I thought a couple could go.  You know, as long as we're staying close to the lead, you know, not that it's not nice to be leading, but as long as I stayed around the lead.  If I hit it good all day, hit good putts, they didn't go in, finished two or 3-under, that's okay.  I finally got a couple together and, you know, here I am. 

KARRIE WEBB:  1st hole, I hit a 3-wood off the tee into the right fairway bunker.  I didn't really have much of a shot there.  Probably about 40 yards short of the green.  Hit it on and 2-putted for a bogey.  3, hit a 5-iron just short right of the green, chipped it to about three feet.  Made the putt.  5, I hit a 6-iron to 20 feet.  7, I hit a 5-iron to ten feet.  9, I missed the green short left in the green-side bunker with a wedge.  Hit my bunker shot to about 15 feet, missed the putt.  12, I hit a sand wedge to about six feet.  14, I hit 7-iron to about eight feet.  15, I hit a 4-iron on the green and 2-putted from 25 feet.  16, drove it through the fairway and hit my 53-degree wedge to, oh, 12 feet.  17, 5-iron, 3-putt.  18 was a 5-iron to about five feet. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT