MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY AIG
June 23, 2001
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








KARRIE WEBB:  3, I hit a wedge to  -- that seems so long ago.  That was about 12 feet.  6, I hit 7-iron just to the green, short left.  Chipped to about six feet and missed it.  7, I hit 9-iron and missed it short left.  Chipped it to about 12 feet and missed the putt.  9, I hit a sand wedge to 15 feet and made the putt. 10, I missed the green left with a 9-iron in the bunker and hit it to about 25 feet and 2-putted.  14, I hit a 9-iron to 20 feet.  Made the putt.  16, I hit 5-wood just short of the green and chipped up to about eight feet  -- ten feet, probably. 

Q.  How frustrating was the winds out there?  Was it driving you crazy on the front nine?

KARRIE WEBB:   It was just really gusty.  For the most part, on the front nine, it came mostly from the same direction.  It was just, you know, how hard, and if you hit between gusts.  The main thing that was frustrating for me was that it had a lot of in-between numbers, and in the wind like that, it's really hard to, obviously, pick the right club, and then to continue hitting good swings.  Especially if you were taking a longer club and trying to bump it into the wind.  I just found on the front nine that, you know, I didn't really get much of a rhythm going in my swing.  We had a bit of a wait on the fifth tee, and for the next couple of holes, I had a little bit of trouble just getting my rhythm going in my swing. 

Q.  Is a 70 on a day like today, do you feel pretty good about that score? 

KARRIE WEBB:   I do, actually.  Because, you know, I didn't hit the ball as well as I've hit it the last couple of days, and the conditions were tough.  I had a three-shot leading a major, with two days to go, it's just a long way to go.  Ideally, you would like to go in and shoot 65, and hopefully, have an easy day tomorrow.  But the conditions just didn't set up for -- it was possible to shoot a score like that.  You saw a couple of 5-unders today.  But I just feel like I really ground it out.  I feel happy with 1-under.  I still have my three-shot lead that I had last night. 

Q.  Seems like on the front nine, particularly, several of your putts, you were just short or just missing them.  Were the greens a little different today than they had been the two first rounds? 

KARRIE WEBB:   No, I don't think so.  Apart from being a bit of moisture on the greens and being the last group, there's a lot of soft spike marks and spike marks.  But mainly when the greens are like that, people that wear soft spikes, there's a lot of indentations and scuff marks around the hole. 

Q.  Two questions.  Did you know pretty early on that your swing might not have been as crisp as it had been the first couple of days? 

KARRIE WEBB:   Yeah, I had a sense of that.  Just in the first few holes.  But really, it was really just on the front nine, probably through  -- well, for the most part, hit it pretty good except for a couple of loose shots.  On 10 was still not that great.  On 13, I missed the green there.  After that, I really didn't feel like I missed a shot.  I mean, I didn't hit a lot close, but I was swinging it a lot better.

Q.  Secondly, you've been talking about momentum the last month or so, momentum-type putts.  What about 13? 

KARRIE WEBB:   Yeah, there that was a big momentum putt there.  Not necessarily, because I had a lot of forward momentum, but it stopped me from going back to 9-under and it kept me still in the lead at that stage, and then I birdied the next hole.

Q.  How far was that bunker save on 13? 

KARRIE WEBB:   13, it was probably about eight feet, ten feet. 

Q.  How much break?  About a foot? 

KARRIE WEBB:   Not quite that much.  Probably a cup. 

Q.  Were you doing any scoreboard watching out there?  Are you a scoreboard watcher? 

KARRIE WEBB:   Yeah, I'm a constant scoreboard watcher, actually, whether I am in contention or not.  I always like to know what the situation is and where I stand. 

Q.  What was it like today watching it seeing Laura come up and actually tie you at one time and then you pulling away? 

KARRIE WEBB:   Like I said yesterday, there's two days to go.  You know, no one expects these two days to be easy, and as much as I would like to say that I thought I would lead all the way through and do that, I can't control how other people play.  You know, it didn't really surprise me to see Laura up there.  I played with her the first two rounds, and she did play well and she's putting well.  When Laura is putting well, she is normally pretty confident.

Q.  How differently is the golf course playing today from the first to days?

KARRIE WEBB:   It probably played pretty similar to yesterday.  Yesterday afternoon.  Fortunately, we played in a lot of wind, but the front nine  -- our front nine yesterday was not in quite as much wind.  So, I already had a good rhythm going, so when the wind did pick up, it didn't really affect me a whole lot, but today I started in it.  If you don't  -- if you don't get, you know, hit your first couple of shots really crisp, you're a little second-guessing yourself.  If you don't get your timing in the first couple of hole, it's a struggle.  Really have to dig deep and try and find it.

Q.  A couple shots early, I want to say around 6 and 7 you left a little short.  Was the wind difficult on you or difficult to gauge somewhat? 

KARRIE WEBB:   On 7, I just didn't hit it very solid  -- sorry.  6, I didn't hit it very solid.  7, I was in the first cut of rough.  I just haven't known any time this week when I've been in the first cut if it is going to jump or if it is going to come out soft.  On that occasion, I chose that it was going to jump and it didn't really jump at all.  Then I missed it on the short side, as well, which didn't help.

Q.  That stretch though, back-to-back bogeys, did that almost put you in some kind of bunker mentality that it is going to be a grind today, that you have to stay patient? 

KARRIE WEBB:   Yeah, just the frame of mind that I was still leading.  Still, what do we have, 29 holes to go.  You have to stay patient and know that my swing is there.  I just really had  -- you know, I think what happened was, I was worrying more about my result than I was about actually how I was going to get that result.  So, that's what I started doing, was just thinking about, you know, a couple of checkpoints in my swing and thinking about my rhythm and just trying to relax over the ball and not actually by think about the outcome of the shot and just think about how I was going to do that.

Q.  Easier to stay patient when you are in the lead?

KARRIE WEBB:   I think so.  I think if you are chasing and you make a couple bogeys in a row, it is probably more frustrating.  But I think that I could have easily have lost my patience after a couple of bogeys in a row.  You know, having the lead probably was a bonus. 

Q.  Are you giving any thought that this is the one major that you have not won?  Is that going to be on your mind tomorrow or do you just put it out of your mind when you play tomorrow?

KARRIE WEBB:   It's on the back of my mind.  I've obviously talked about it a little bit this week.  To complete the career Grand Slam, I have to win the tournament so, that's my main objective tomorrow is just think about winning the tournament, and just taking each hole as it comes.  Like I said, there's a long way to go and a lot of good golf left to be played, and say lot of people played good golf today.  So I still have my work cut out for me.

Q.  Will you make any special preparations for tomorrow?

KARRIE WEBB:   I don't believe so.  Just try and continue on doing the same thing as I have been. 

Q.  How do you size things up?  You have a three-shot lead over Laura and Maria.  Do you see them as the closest competition or do you see yourself  -- do you have to control what you do and you don't make mistakes? 

KARRIE WEBB:   Well, obviously, you know, I have to control what I do.  But Laura and Maria both have been playing very well lately.  They are not going to go out there tomorrow and play for second, I know that for sure.  Like I said, I've got a work ahead of me.  I'm by no means getting ahead of myself.  I don't believe I've won this tournament and I don't believe it until  -- if I have a putt on last hole to do that.

Q.  Is there any apprehension about tomorrow in view of today's rumples? 

KARRIE WEBB:   I don't think so.  I really think that I did find my swing towards the end of the day, and I still putted pretty decently all day.  I don't know how many scores were under par, but from the leader, I only shot 1-under and I still have a three-shot lead.  I had a three-shot lead last night, so no one really made up any ground on me.

Q.  You are the third player who spoke of today being a day that you had to grind.  Is that typical for third round of a major or is there something special about today? 

KARRIE WEBB:   I think just in light of the conditions and the fact that it is a major.  But, no, this would not necessarily have been a major.  It would still have been a tough day, with just the way the conditions were and the way the course was playing. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT