MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY AIG
June 21, 2001
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
KARRIE WEBB:   First hole, I hit a wedge to about five feet and made that.  Third hole, I hit an 8-iron to about 12 feet.  5, I hit a 6-iron to about 15 feet.  8, I hit 4-iron through the back and hit a poor chip and missed about a 25-foot putt.  16,  I hit a 5-iron to about 30 feet, 35 feet probably and made the putt for eagle.  
 
KARRIE WEBB:   Yeah.  I felt like I played reasonably well.  Struck the ball for the most part today pretty well.  I had a bit of lapse of concentration there through the middle holes.  A couple of poor swings.  But fortunately, I was able to get up-and-down and not do any damage there.  But all in all, you know, I think I missed three greens.  That's not putting myself into too much trouble, and I putted fairly  -- fairly well, as well.  
 
Q.  Any great saves in that stretch that you said where you had a couple bad swings? 
 
KARRIE WEBB:   I played 11 pretty poorly and holed about a 6-footer.  
 
But nothing really  -- probably the biggest save was on 15.  I hit the green and hit it about ten  -- my first putt about ten foot past and I had the putt coming back.  That was probably the biggest save.  Other than that, when I missed the greens, I chipped it up pretty close. 
 
Q.  How significant was the eagle? 
 
KARRIE WEBB:   Well, I think if I would have 2-putted there and made birdie and finished at 3, I still would have been pretty happy with the way things went.  When it goes in for eagle, it's just a bit of a bonus.  The difference between 3 and 4, it doesn't sound like a lot, but it's quite a bit of difference just mentally, I think because now, I'm only two shots behind rather than 3.  
 
Q.  I was wondering if you had made that eagle on the first par 5 and had more golf course to play, if it would have helped you more? 
 
KARRIE WEBB:   I don't think so.  I think that I was 3-under through five as it was on the front nine, so that's just as good as making eagle on one hole. 
 
Q.  Given your start, 3-under through five, was 4-under a good score for you, or did you feel you could go a little lower? 
 
KARRIE WEBB:   No.  You never can tell if you're going to go lower than that.  But it is a major, and it's not like every hole is a birdie hole out there.  Sometimes you just need to take your pars and move on.  But for me, this is probably the best start I've had at the LPGA Championship.  4-under is a score that I'm pretty happy with.  
 
Q.  Did you approach this any differently today than past rounds here? 
 
KARRIE WEBB:   I don't believe so.  I think just being 3-under through five, that really settle it is down into the round pretty quickly.  
 
Q.  Did the wind springing up, did that have any effect on any shots you hit late in the round? 
 
KARRIE WEBB:   Well, it made 16 very short.  It doesn't normally play that short.  But 15 was  -- I hit a really good drive there and I still had to hit a 6-iron in.  I have hit 9-irons in there before.  So it did play  -- just that one hole, I guess.  But the last three holes were downwind.  
 
Q.  So do you think the weather really had an effect on you making eagle on 16? 
 
KARRIE WEBB:   Well, it helped me to have a 5-iron in, but I still had to make that putt.  
 
Q.  How far was that 5-iron? 
 
KARRIE WEBB:   I had 198 to the pin.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT