U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 2000
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








KARRIE WEBB: Thank you. 

Q. How did you feel about your round today as compared to yesterday? 

KARRIE WEBB: Well, I think I played pretty similar. Probably did not hit as many
fairways, but, you know, I feel like, you know, I was on the green a lot. I think
yesterday I had more chances from the right side of the hole to be on so I could putt
aggressively, more aggressively yesterday. And today I felt when I hit some good shots in
there I was putting on the defensive because I was on the wrong side of the hole. And
there were some tricky pin positions out there today. So a lot of the times you really
could not be on the right side of the hole, unless you were overly aggressive and left
yourself on the short side of the pin. I'm still really happy with an even par round. The
wind, we pretty much had the wind all day again. I don't think it was that calm this
morning; and it was a little more gusty today and it's starting to gust now. I think that,
you know, yesterday it was just a constant wind; whereas, today, it's coming and going and
it's always a lot harder to pick clubs and to be positive over the ball. So, I feel pretty
good being at 3-under. I think that -- I don't know if I'll be leading at the end of the
day, but I don't think I'll be too far out of it. 

Q. You talked a little bit about slow play outside. Is there anything that can be done
to speed things up out here?

KARRIE WEBB: When you have 156 people on the field and you have tough conditions on a
tough golf course, you know, and a lot of these people have qualified, and this sometimes
is their only tournament they play in all year. So, you know, you just have so expect it.
You know, anything less than five hours in the first two days is just a bonus. I think you
just expect five hours-plus, and that's -- it happens every year. It's never any
different. It's always pretty slow the first two days until you get to the weekend. And
that's just part of the whole patience thing that I talk about, and the slow play is
definitely part of it, just to stay patient and know that you're going to be waiting and
stay focused for the duration.

Q. Speaking of patience, with the way the course is playing, is there a premium on
trying to make a move, or do you feel pretty comfortable that if you're making pars that
you're going to be in good shape at the end of the day?

KARRIE WEBB: I think I would have like to have at least stayed at 4-under, and maybe
even gotten to 5(-under), but, you know, like I said, I'm happy at 3-under. You know, I
think that things are going pretty well. It's hard to -- like I said, there's a lot of
tough pin positions out there today. You know, it was really hard to be aggressive. I
mean, if you watched the telecast this afternoon, I bet there will be at least two groups
on 7 tee, because the wind is gusting into your face there and the pin is way over on the
left. And when we were there, there was two or three groups on the hole, one on the green
and two on the tee. You know, that was just one of the tough pin positions. I hit a shot
in there to about 15, 20 feet above the pin and did not have -- I didn't have a realistic
birdie chance. I just had to putt defensively down the hill. 

Q. Can you talk a little bit, if you can articulate, how or if your mindset changes in
a major? I mean, how do things change in your mind when you get ready to go on Saturday
for the weekend?

KARRIE WEBB: I don't think they change too much. You know, right now, I just want to do
a little bit of practice this afternoon, have a good dinner and a good night's sleep. I
played quite a bit of golf. I've played two rounds of golf in the last 24 hours, and those
being 5 1/2 hours. I haven't had much time other than to play golf in the last 24 hours. I
want to get a good night's sleep tonight, and I don't think I'll have too much trouble
doing that. You know, just be relaxed and ready to play tomorrow and know that you're just
going to be faced with the same sort of conditions, and, you know, just try and do the
same things that I've done the last two days.

Q. Don't get a different feeling, per se? 

KARRIE WEBB: I think you know that -- the occasion that it is. You know that you're in
contention, you know, to have a chance to win the U.S. Open. But, it is only Saturday
tomorrow, and there's 36 holes to go. You know, there's still a long way to go; there's
still a lot of golf left. I just try not to get too far ahead of myself.

Q. When you're talking about patience and all that, would that bogey on 9 have bothered
you more in past years? It seems like you've already sort of shrugged it off and said,
"Okay, I'm okay with that." 

KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, I just hit a bad tee shot. So, you know, right from the get-go
you're pretty much thinking that you're going to have to play great from there on in to
make par. You know, I don't like finishing with a bogey any day of the week, but, you
know, it's just one of those things. I gave myself a good chance to make par and I didn't
make the putt. But, you know, I can't complain. Like I said, I'm so very happy with the
position I'm in. And just see what the other -- what the other people that are up there at
the top do this afternoon and see where I am at the end of the day.

Q. Karrie, I don't know if you've heard, but Pat Hurst and the Beth Daniel took the
shortcut route again on 14, going into the 13th fairway. Is that something you would
consider? Would you have your caddie go out and look at the yardage just to have it in
your --

KARRIE WEBB: Yesterday, someone said that to me, but I thought she didn't mean to hit
it over there, but I guess she did mean to hit it over there -- Meg, I'm talking about. I
really don't -- I had a look at it today when I was playing 13. I don't know, you can't
see the green from there, and if you miss the fairway from there, you have to lay-up
short. I mean, if you're in the rough, you cannot get over those trees. I've had two
birdie chances the last two days playing it the correct way. I don't know, it's not
something that I've even -- that I am even going to consider for the weekend.

Q. You said you've been fine-tuning your swing a little bit recently. Have you played
these rounds without much mechanics -- thoughts, your swing, or how is that going?

KARRIE WEBB: I still have a few swing thoughts, and I hit a couple of loose shots
today, but, you know I didn't get myself into too much trouble. But, you know, a little
bit of practice. I think I was getting a little tired out there, too. It was a very early
start this morning, and, you know, I was just glad to get in and make, you know, not too
many mistakes on the way in. Like I said, I'll just do a little bit of light practice this
afternoon and have a good night's sleep, and I think I'll be set for tomorrow.

Q. Did if affect you guys at all when Dottie dropped out, the pace of play or anything
like that, did it change for you?

KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, obviously, you know, Kelly and I are not slow players. So, we were
waiting on pretty much nearly every shot, especially on our back nine, which is the front.
We were waiting on tee shots, as well as on the fairway. You know, it's all part of it.
You know, Dottie didn't do that to us on purpose. You just have to, you know, that's just
another thing where you've got to tell yourself to be a little bit more patient. You know,
the bonus was that, you know I am good friends with Kelly Robbins, and at least we get
along well and we can -- in all that time standing there, we can have a bit of a
conversation. You know, that was probably the only bonus to playing in a twosome coming
in. 

Q. How much more defensive do you have to play in an Open versus a normal week on TOUR,
and then how much more defensive do things get on the weekends, say, versus the first two
rounds? 

KARRIE WEBB: I don't know how to judge-- I don't know how to judge how much more
defensive. I guess it is quite a bit. You know, most courses that we play each week, the
rough is not quite as brutal. So, missing a fairway is not quite as stressful, and the
greens are not quite as firm and the fairways are not as firm. You know, I think all in
all, you can normally play a little bit more aggressive, definitely, than a U.S. Open. On
the weekend, to me, I don't think you really change your game plan. I think that you just
keep plugging away, and, you know, hitting fairways and greens, and then trying to, you
know, take advantage of the birdie opportunities that you get. 

Q. I'm sure it's very intense for you competing inside the ropes, but could you please
give us your sense of the overall atmosphere of this championship? 

KARRIE WEBB: Well, this is my favorite event. The atmosphere at the U.S. Open is
always, you know, just there's a little bit more electricity out there. The crowd, you
know you play a practice rounds and the crowd cannot wait to cheer. You putting to a tee
and you hit the tee and they start cheering. But, you know, it's very exciting out there,
and the crowds definitely appreciate good golf. And I think U.S. Open crowds do understand
that we are playing tough golf courses. And, you know, when we are hitting out of the
rough, they understand that you might not advance it very far on the fairway; or if you
get up-and-down out of the rough on the greens, they really appreciate that. It's a lot of
fun, and it's great that the crowds understand what we're going through. 

Q. You talked about the tough pin placements and not being so aggressive today, but
they can't be that tough tomorrow if they are going to be as tough on Sunday. So, do you
expect that the scores will go down tomorrow for you? 

KARRIE WEBB: No. I think what the USGA will try to do is try to do six hard, six
medium, six easy, most days. Whether or not they end up turning out that way is another
thing. But, you know there were still some pin positions out there that were accessible
today, and, you know, gave you a chance to make a birdie. I think there are still a lot of
tough pin positions out there for both Saturday and Sunday.

Q. For you, at least, it's been a while since you've been in the winner's circle --

KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, it's just been a drought, hasn't it? (Laughter.)

Q. How anxious are you to win this tournament, let's put it that way. 

KARRIE WEBB: You know, I think I hold this tournament with the most importance. I think
this is the biggest event that we play every year. You know, whether or not I win this
weekend, it's a tournament that, you know, every year I'll be gunning to try and win. If I
win this week, it's, you know, just going to be an unbelievable feeling and I'll achieve
something probably earlier than I expected to. 

KARRIE WEBB: Starting on 10. 11, I hit a 4-iron to about eight feet. Then went around
to 1. I missed the fairway left. Hit it just short of the green, and chipped it to
probably about 20 feet and 2-putted. 8, I hit -- laid up and hit my sand wedge to about
six feet and made the putt. And 9, missed the fairway right. Tried to advance it to the
green, and then hit it in the left rough short of the green and hit it -- hit a good chip
to about six feet and missed the putt, and that's it. 

Q. You're a player who can go on some pretty quick birdie runs. Does this test the
limits of that patience on the back nine when you have to just keep playing to the middle
of the green or keep putting defensively hole after hole after hole? Does that get to you
at all? 

KARRIE WEBB: No, I don't think so. I think par is your friend in the U.S. Open. And I
think as long as you're doing that, you know, the birdies will come. I think that I don't
expecting to on birdie runs out here, but there's always a possibility that you can. You
just prepare yourself for that, but, you know, like I said, par is your friend and
anything better is a bonus. 

Q. How would you compare the setup of this course compared to the two previous Opens,
where we had the wide swings at Blackwolf Run and then last year at Old Waverly? 

KARRIE WEBB: I think it's right in between those two courses as far as toughness.
Obviously, three totally different style of golf courses. But, you know Blackwolf Run was
to the extreme of difficult. And last year, you know, was -- I wouldn't say easy, but it
was set up definitely just not U.S. Open like, I guess, as far as you, you know, you
prepare yourself coming in there to grind it out for four rounds and then you end up
having to reevaluate and say, "Okay, I need to make some birdies now." This is
right in between that. I think that there are definitely some holes out there that your
heart is in your mouth when you're on the tee. But I think that there's other holes that
give you a bit of a breather, too; that you can try and make some birdies.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT