U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2000
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, it was. The wind was pretty consistent all afternoon, blowing, I
don't know how hard. It was blowing at least -- we were playing between 10- and 15-yard
winds for the most of the day. And the course strayed out quite a bit. The fairways were
faster than ever and the greens have hardened up. Just really makes you think. I hit a lot
of good, safe shots today and took advantage of my birdie chances when I could, and I
think that's the biggest key to playing the U.S. Open is not to be too aggressive or too
aggressive at the wrong times, I guess. You know, I made some really good up-and-downs out
there, which really kept my momentum going. I think, you know, if it goes the other way,
you know, it's a bogey, and, you know, things don't look as good, but you make a great
up-and-down; it's almost like making a birdie. So, you know I had a couple of those out
there that really kept me going. 

Q. How much of an advantage is it playing the late/early pairing here? You'll have
probably soft conditions tomorrow and not as much wind, where maybe the morning players
will have what you had to deal with?

KARRIE WEBB: We'll just have to wait and see what happens. We could wake up tomorrow
morning and it will be blowing 20 miles an hour. If I wake up and there's no wind, that
will be a bonus. We'll just wait and see. I'm not thinking that far ahead just yet.

Q. Meg Mallon played the 14th hole by hitting her tee shot into the 13th fairway and
then over the tree. In light of what happened in your group today, would you consider that
if the need arises? 

KARRIE WEBB: Well, I don't think that was probably something that I needed to know. I
played it from the middle of the fairway and hit a wedge on the green. I'm not even going
to think about where she hit it. 

Q. You mentioned the par saves being almost as big as birdies. Did you think, 11,
particularly after you struggled on 10 was a key for you?

KARRIE WEBB: Yeah. I think they were big saves for me, but 11, particularly because I
had just playing a bogey on 10. And making that putt on 11 really kept the momentum going,
kept me at 1-under par. You know, I really played solidly after that. 

KARRIE WEBB: I missed the fairway left with a 3-wood. Hit a 9-iron short right of the
green and chipped it to about 30 feet and 2-putted. 2, I hit, that was a long time ago. I
think I hit a 6-iron, I'm not sure. 6- or 7-iron, I think it was 6-iron to about 15 feet.
3, I hit a wedge to about 30 feet and made that. 8, I hit 4-iron through the back of the
green and chipped it to about two feet. 10, I hit 4-iron on the front of the green and
3-putted from about 45 feet. 16, I hit a 7-iron to about 25 feet and 18, I hit a 7-iron to
about 35, 40 feet, 2-putted. 

KARRIE WEBB: It's just the way the wind blows. You know, if the wind is blowing the
total opposite way, we're hitting it way down, straight down at the trap and you have to
lay up. I think, you know, there's just not -- for a finishing hole for the U.S. Open,
there's just not a tee there that you could make it -- I don't think that anyone wants to
see a three-shot par 5 finish hole, either. I think at least there's still going to be a
lot of excitement around the green on 18. It's still a tough tee shot. You've got to take
off as much as you can to stay on the fairway. You almost have to land it in the left
rough to keep it on the fairway. So, you know, it's not necessarily a given. But if you do
hit the fairway, then you are in the go-zone and you have a really, really good chance of
making definitely birdie and maybe even an eagle.

Q. Having played now one round, is there any insight you can give us to the course,
something we might expect to look for this weekend? 

KARRIE WEBB: I think that you're just going to see the fairways getting harder and the
greens getting harder. I don't know how much water is going to be put on those. I imagine
not very much. You're just going to see a lot of big bounces in front of the green. I saw
a few today that bounced higher than the pin, and I think that's just going to, you know,
become a big factor as the week goes on. You know, I think, you know, it's almost like
playing a British Open golf course, as hard as the fairways are getting and as hard as
they are in front of the greens. But, it's still, you know, just makes you think. I think
people who have played a little bit of golf like that might have an advantage. I think it
just really goes on trusting your number and trusting the wind and knowing that it's going
to play that, and it's going to release. You know, I had 177 yards uphill, but downwind on
the last, I hit 7-iron. So, you know, just got to trust that, and it released like 15
yards. So, you've just got to trust that.

Q. Could you give us the length of your par-saving putts on 17 and 18 and run through
any other saves that you had? 

KARRIE WEBB: Par-saving, 7 was about eight feet, I guess. 11 was probably 15 to 18
feet. 17 was about 10 feet, 12 feet there. Just trying to think where else I missed
greens. That's it, I think. 

Q. With your late tee time today, did you have any opportunity to watch any of the
men's British Open this morning, and if you did, what were your impressions of it?

KARRIE WEBB: I watched a little bit of it. I try not to, you know -- you don't really
want to watch people grinding it out before you have to go out and grind it out. It's too
tiring. I was flicking between channels there. I was watching a little bit of it, but not
a whole lot. 

Q. Can you go into a little bit on the hole that you had to get a little wet to get
your ball out? Was it as tough a shot as it looked? 

KARRIE WEBB: Well, I think the toughest thing was keeping my balance and not either
grounding my club in the hazard or falling in the water. But, you know, I had mud halfway
up my shin. So, you know, it wasn't the most pleasant feeling, and I'm not looking forward
-- well, I am looking forward to taking my shoes and socks off so I can clean my foot, but
I can't imagine how nasty it's going to look when I do. That was on 7. 

Q. After you hit your tee shot on 1, you had that little spindly tree right in front of
you. Were you irritated the architect decided to put such a skinny tree right there, and
if you were not irritated, how do you deal with that so early in the round? 

KARRIE WEBB: I think you've got to remember that you have 71 holes to go. And if you're
going to lose your patience on the 1st hole, you might as well walk back to the clubhouse
and get a flight home. 

Q. You hit such a good shot on 14, and both your playing partners went into the water;
so, it was a long time before you had your second shot. Was it hard to keep your
concentration there? Did you get distracted at all? 

KARRIE WEBB: No. I was just glad that I teed off first so I didn't have to watch any of
that. You know, I just tried to block out what they were doing and just think about my
next shot. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT