U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2000
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 KARRIE WEBB: Okay. Well, I think I was at the Merit Club a couple years ago, and
obviously, playing it a couple years ago, I didn't -- I knew coming here that the USGA
would set it up entirely different to what we played that day, and I was right. Just, you
know, the rough is definitely U.S. Open rough, and the course is -- I think it's set up
pretty fair. I think if you're hitting the ball well this week, I think you've got a good
chance at being right in there because the fairways are pretty generous, and the greens
are pretty big. You know, if you're keeping it in the short stuff, I think you've got a
good chance, but the rough is pretty brutal on the fairways and around the greens,
especially. And right now, the greens are at a pretty fair speed, but I'm sure that they
will get a little quicker before we play on Thursday. As far as suiting my game, I tend to
enjoy playing in the wind, and I think that's going to be a big factor here. I think that
will be a big factor in what score wins, too. I think if the wind doesn't get up for one
or two of the days, you the scores, you could see a few red numbers, but I think after the
last two days, it's a pretty consistent wind, and you know, at least 10 miles an hour for
most of the day and then it gets a little gusty in the afternoon. You know, I think that
definitely is a big tell on what the scores are going to be this week. 
 
 KARRIE WEBB: I think it just makes you concentrate more. I think when you have perfect
conditions, I think you sometimes tend to lose your creativity, but when it is windy, you
really have to think about things. Hopefully, that will be a benefit for me this week.  
 
Q. Can you talk about the scheduling with you guys going up against the British Open?
Do you think that detracts from this weekend at all, or do you think it really matters? 
 
 KARRIE WEBB: Well, yes and no. I think, obviously, I think we'd all prefer to have the
week to ourselves as far as attention goes. I think, you know, if we had the week to
ourselves, you know, obviously we'd have all the media here. You know, there would not be
that attention across the Atlantic like there is this week. But as far as, you know,
because they are five hours ahead of us, at least the telecast is going to be over before
hours starts. With any luck, people watch the men in the morning. And then our tournament
is going to be an exciting one, it's the U.S. Open, and normally, have great finishes. So,
you know, I think that that's -- you know, a benefit that at least we're not, you know,
clashing as far as TV times go.  
 
Q. Don't you think that this being the best women's championship in the world, it
should have its own spot in its own week? 
 
 KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, obviously, I think so. But I'm not the person or the people that
have made that decision. And, you know, I know that there's a lot things that go into
making those decisions, and you know, obviously, there's a reason that it happened, and
I'm unaware of why that happened. But, you know, I'm probably not the person to ask about
that.  
 
Q. You mentioned the rough being so difficult, a lot of players say -- I've talked to a
few of the longer-hitting players out here and they are saying that long hitting isn't
exactly an advantage, because the further you blast it, the more chance you have of
getting in the rough. Did you find that in your practice round? 
 
 KARRIE WEBB: I think the longer hitter you are, the more options you have on the tee,
and sometimes that's not a good thing, because you really have too many clubs that you can
actually hit off the tee and be in play. You know, a shorter hitter can just hit the
driver and they are in the first landing area or the biggest landing area. And you know, I
played two -- well, one-and-a-half practice rounds now, with two different winds, and you
know, I just find that driver isn't necessarily -- because the fairways are hard and
running, too, and I think that driver in some places isn't the best play. I think you
could definitely be down there with only an 8-iron into the green, but if you're in the
rough, there's no point in having an 8-iron if you've got a 5- or a 6-iron in your own
fairway, I think that's always the best play at a U.S. Open. 
 
Q. Did you find yourself having to wedge out of the rough a lot?
 
 KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, there's only been a couple of times where I even attempted to play
it to the green, because, you know, most of the time, I just have to wedge it down the
fairway and put it in the spot where I can try and get up-and-down for par. You know, I
haven't really tried to -- you know the ones that are very deep, I'm not to even going to
bother trying to play, because I know I just have to pull my sand wedge out on those ones.
 
 
Q. The Open trophy has eluded you in the past, but you have broken through in a major
category. Talk about what it is that may have held you back in the past and where you
stand with that?
 
 KARRIE WEBB: It's eluded me four times now. But I think to me, I think my biggest
hurdle that I have to overcome is my patience. And I tend to -- I can lose my patience,
not necessarily in the first day, or the second day, but I think I've gotten to at least
get to the third day before I lose my patient earns. I think when I first played at the
U.S. Open, I lost it on the first day. But, yeah, I think I have to really be patient and
know that I'm going to make bogeys, but try to just, you know, make as few bogeys as you
can, and eliminate more than bogey. You know, just try and stick to your game plan and,
you know, hopefully things will go well, and you know, you are going to get some bad lies
in the rough, and you are going to miss fairways. It's just what you do with it from there
that is what -- I think is why people win the tournament. I think if -- if I can keep my
patience for four days and, you know, have my game in top form and keep my patience, I
think those are the two biggest keys for me. 
 
Q. Do you think your game is in shape right now to win a U.S. Open? 
 
 KARRIE WEBB: I think that it's pretty close. It's not exactly right where I'd like it,
but I still have a day and a half to go. And I think with it being a little windy, I think
some people tend to think that you have to really be hitting it pure when you play in the
wind. But I think that sometimes I can manage extra shots, even if I'm not hitting the
ball as well as I would like. So I think with the wind factor, I feel even though I'm not
striking the ball as well as would I like, I still feel pretty confident with the way
things are turning out right now. 
 
Q. Annika passed you on the money list, what kind of extra incentive does that give
you?
 
 KARRIE WEBB: I think, obviously, I can't do anything to the way that Annika is playing.
She has played great, especially in the last couple of months. You know, I've just got to
keep doing my own thing, and, you know, just concentrate on my own game, which is what
I've done for four and a half years, five years now. And you know, and just try and put
myself in context to win golf tournaments, and then try and win the golf tournaments. You
know, I can't do anything more than that. I think that's the most I can do, and if that --
you know, puts me No. 1 at the end of the year or whatever, then that's great. But I can
only do my best, and if best isn't No. 1, well, you know, I'm still going to be happy with
the way things have gone.  
 
Q. This is the longest golf course in U.S. Open Women's Open history, does it feel like
it out there? 
 
 KARRIE WEBB: Not really. I think the fairways are really firm, and you know, you're
getting so much roll on the ball, and in some ways that makes it play shorter. But in
other ways, I think that it's hard to keep it on the fairway; so it's not necessarily an
advantage. And with the winds -- yesterday was the prevailing wind, and there's a lot of
holes that play relatively short because they are straight downwind, and then with the
fairway going so firmly, but a lot of them you don't even take driver out. So, I guess
that sort of evens them out, I guess. 
 
Q. It's been said, it's been written, that one of the reasons that Annika is playing so
well is because of how well you played, and she felt that she had to raise her game to
compete with you. I wonder if before, while as you said, trying to play your own game, do
you feel a challenge from her before a tournament starts, or do you have to get into a
tournament with you both playing well to feel a challenge? 
 
 KARRIE WEBB: I don't necessarily, inside the tournament, look at one person or a group
of people that I feel I need to beat. I think that is when you beat yourself that there's
only a couple of people in the field that you have to beat. But, you know, obviously, on
Saturday and Sunday if Annika and I are both in contention, it doesn't matter what
tournament it is, you know, I have enough respect for Annika's game to know that I'm going
to have to play great golf to win the golf tournament. And I'm not going to -- I can't sit
back and let her make mistakes. I have to play good golf to win the golf tournament, and
that's all there is to it. Obviously, I have enough respect for Annika's game to know
that's normally the case. 
 
Q. Last year was really hot at the Open time and it's probably 30 degrees cooler here,
does that make any difference, as far as stamina, if it stays this cool by the final
round?
 
 KARRIE WEBB: I think it's definitely very pleasant today. You know, I grew up in the
heat that we played in last year. So I don't think anyone can ever get used to being out
in that heat for seven or eight hours a day and trying to compete at 100%; and I certainly
in 25 years, have not gotten used to it. You know, last year, people asked me that
question, and I said that I don't go out and spend that much time in that sort of heat
through the middle of the day. Normally, I'm practicing in the morning and afternoon or
something like that. But obviously, the weather is beautiful here, and the temperature is
great. So, you know, I don't think that any certain player has any more advantage. I think
it's just who is going to play the best golf.  
 
Q. Michael Jordan was in here and he said, obviously, you would be the favorite this
week. Do you want to give us your reaction to that? And the second question to that is the
LPGA Championship last month, I thought was the hardest course that I ever saw the women
play a tournament on and I wonder if you can compare this course to that course? 
 
 KARRIE WEBB: Which course is that again? 
 
Q. The LPGA Championship. I thought it was the hardest course that I had ever seen the
women have to play, in any tournament, and I wondered if you think that's close to an
accurate assessment, or how this course would compare to that course? 
 
 KARRIE WEBB: Well, I think -- I mean, obviously, two different golf courses. This golf
course is wide open, as far as, you know, play about three or four holes within the trees,
and even then, it's not having to judge the wind. You're always going to know where the
wind is coming from on this golf course. And I think at Du Pont, that's one of the factors
you could just never tell which way the wind was coming from. It was definitely set up
pretty tough. The greens were very hard and fast and the rough was long. I don't know, I
have never played well enough there to be able to judge if that course has played hard or
easy, because I've never played it very well. But it did play extremely difficult,
especially on the last day.  
 
 KARRIE WEBB: Well, you know, I think when people say that I'm the favorite for this
tournament, obviously, it goes on my record this year and last, and then in the last
couple majors. But like I said before, I don't necessarily ever pick someone out as the
favorite to win a tournament. You know, this that goes for me, too. I know that I can win
any golf tournament I've got my mind to, and I'm definitely 100% behind trying to win this
one. But it's -- sometimes, you know, you can play your best golf and not win a golf
tournament. So I just want to get myself into some sort of contention Friday night and
Saturday night and then just take it from there.  
 
Q. Chicago is not a regular LPGA stop. Do you have any idea why, theories why, and why
should local fans around here be attracted to women's professional golf? Can you put that
in words? 
 
 KARRIE WEBB: Well, first question, I don't know why there is no tournament in Chicago.
I think as far as sports fans go in the United States, I think Chicago has some of the
biggest and most supportive sports fans from what I understand. I've never been to a
sporting event in Chicago. Second question, you know, I find that every week playing in
Pro-Ams and listening to people who are fans, they say that they really love watching us
play, because they can relate to how we play a golf course. And you know, it's fun to go
and watch Tiger Woods hit it over 300 yards on every hole. But the normal person cannot
hit that far. And the average male golfer can relate to how he played the golf course,
because they hit it about as far as we do, and they can see how we go about making a score
from as far as we hit it, and I think that's the biggest thing that draws a lot more
people to be fans of the LPGA every day.  
 
Q. A lot of players say they do certain things with their game to prepare for certain
events, especially the majors. Have you done anything in your normal practice routine, any
alterations to prepare for a U.S. Open layout? 
 
 KARRIE WEBB: I've sort of been working quite a bit on my swing lately, but not to
prepare for this -- I mean, to prepare for this, but just to get it into the sort of shape
that I would like it. And because I've been doing that, I really did want to work a little
bit more on some lower, punch shots, but I found that I'm hitting them pretty good out
there as it is right now. But those sort of things, only because I knew I had played this
course before, and I knew it was going to be windy. But most U.S. Opens, most people have
never played the course before they get here on Monday. So it's hard to know how to
prepare for it, except to know that you're going to be hitting more long irons and you're
going to have to hit your driver straight, and you've just got to be on your game, all
aspects of it.  
 
Q. You were talking about driver, not having to use it, have you worked out a strategy
and when you won't use it, definitely, or will that change from day-to-day?
 
 KARRIE WEBB: I think it just depends on the winds. You know, today I just played nine
holes; so I've played the front nine twice. The two different winds that I've been in the
last two days really did change the way I hit what I hit on some tees. So, it's really
just going to depend on the wind, and then how I feel, because in some laces, you can be
aggressive if you want to hit the driver and take the risk of trying to be on the fairway,
but a little further down. 
 
Q. And what do you consider a good score on this course? 
 
 KARRIE WEBB: I don't know. It's too soon to tell. I'd say that I think if the wind
stays up for four days and blows the way it did yesterday, I think 5- , 6-under would be a
good score for four rounds.  
 
Q. You mentioned how the average male golfer feels he can relate to the average LPGA
golfer, how hard to you hit your 5-, your 8-, your wedge and what percentage of the time
do you miss it, as opposed to a male golfer who probably misses it half the time?
 
 KARRIE WEBB: Well, I don't think I've ever worked out that percentage. But I hit my
5-iron 170 yards; 8-iron, 140, and pitching wedge, 120.  
 
Q. A non-golf question: Does your schedule work out that you'll be able to go back and
see the Olympics, and how excited are you that they are in your homeland?
 
 KARRIE WEBB: Well, I just made my schedule work out that I was going to go back to the
Olympics. I'm really excited about going back and I'm carrying the torch the day before
the opening ceremony in Sydney. And I'm real excited about that, just to be there and be
at the opening ceremony. You know, there's not too many times that -- well, maybe one more
time in my lifetime that the Olympics will be in Australia. So, you know, I'm just really
thrilled that I could go down there and be there.  
 
Q. How far are you going to carry the torch? 
 
 KARRIE WEBB: 500 meters. 
 
Q. Are you doing any extra workouts or anything?
 
 KARRIE WEBB: I think I would be a little bit disappointed in myself if I couldn't make
it 500 meters.  
 
Q. How did the course last week, in New Rochelle, how did that stack up preparing you
for this course? Did you see any similarities?
 
 KARRIE WEBB: You know, I think you just have to think your way around, just like you
have to with any U.S. Open golf course, and I think that's, you know, a good warm-up to
coming here. The rough was pretty thick. It definitely was around the greens last week,
and the greens were fast and firm. Actually, the greens were a little faster than they are
right now, here. But I'm sure that the greens are going to get a little quicker, as I
said. But I think that it was definitely is a good preparation, just to get into the
mindset of a U.S. Open, a week early.  
 
Q. In terms of what you said about your patience, was it good to play three rounds of
that, working with the patience factor? 
 
 KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, I think so. I think my patience was pretty good last week. You know,
I didn't get too much going, but you know, I still shot three par rounds, so under the
circumstances, I was pretty happy.  
 
Q. How do golfers define patience? 
 
 KARRIE WEBB: Well, I think I define patience as not -- well, I think I just get very --
I go so long and keep everything in, and then just one bad break or one bad swing, and I
just -- I just lose it. And that's what I have to work on is that, you know, just try and
make the best of it. You know, especially in a major, in majors. I have, obviously, a lot
to deal with at du Maurier last year, and at The Nabisco Championship this year. But, you
know, I found that I lost my patience at McDonald's LPGA Championship. It just depends on
the week and how you are playing. It's just something that I feel I have to -- every year,
and every year that I mature, I feel that that gets a little bit better, and I'm a little
less hard on myself, and I know that I've got plenty of holes left and I have the ability
to make birdies from anywhere. You know, sometimes, just even in the worse situations,
you've still got to believe that you can still do that. 
 
Q. So it's emotions, as opposed to not getting upset if you don't get birdie
opportunities or things of that nature?
 
 KARRIE WEBB: Yeah. And I think you have to realize that birdies are not going to come
as often as they are on other golf courses, and I think I have definitely realized that.
But not to make a bogey and then get on the next tee and say, all right, I've got to get
straight back, because at a U.S. Open, sometimes you can't get it straight back, but you
might get it back the next hole, two holes later, six holes later. But you know, you want
to get up on the next tee and try and make a birdie and you end up making another bogey,
then you lose your patience because you made two bogies in a row when you should have only
made one. 
 
Q. When you won the first four out of five, everyone's expectations levels of you
increased. Did it increase for you? Was it harder for you to sit back? And now you're in a
so-called drought. I read that somewhere, "three months without a win." Is that
harder to deal with when you get off to such a fast start? 
 
 KARRIE WEBB: I guess it is a little bit. But, you know, I just -- I know myself that
you just can't continue -- there is one person that proves that theory wrong right now,
but you just can't continue to win week-in and week-out. You know, it's tiring. It takes a
lot out of you to do that. You know, I just want to try and stay as consistent as I can,
give myself as many opportunities to win. But you know you're not going to win every time
you have a chance, and you're not going to win every week, and you're not going to have a
chance to win every week. You know, the harder -- I just feel like if I work hard on my
game, and I'm happy with where I'm at, then that's all that matters. I mean, the pressure
that and the talk about me winning every week, I think deep down, most people realize that
that's just not possible, even though they take about it.  
 
End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT