THE NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 26, 2000
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 KARRIE WEBB: Thanks, Connie. Well, I stink right now, but I'm very happy that I do.
This week has -- you know, after I had had such a good start to the year, I did wonder if
I had peaked a little too early for this week, but you really can't help things like that.
And I was hoping that my game would still be in shape this week, and it was. I mean, I
played tremendously well, especially the first three days. Today was, you know, I was more
excited just to get in to the clubhouse and hold up the trophy more than anything else.
But things went very well for me, and I'm extremely happy with what I've done this week. 
 
Q. I guess start out by telling us about the hole-in-one? 
 
 KARRIE WEBB: Well, actually I nearly missed it, because when it landed on the green, I
saw it roll up fairly close, and I looked down to get my tee out of the ground and then I
heard Evan say "Get in" and I looked up and saw it drop in the hole; so I nearly
missed my own hole-in-one. But, you know, I think when things are going well, they
certainly go well for you, and that's just a sign of it.  
 
Q. How do you feel in general about the way you've dominated the women's tour so far so
much this year, culminating in this major championship? 
 
 KARRIE WEBB: Well, you know, it's such a good feeling, a rewarding feeling, I guess for
all the hard work that I put in and, you know, I'm just receiving so much back in return
for the work I have put in. And, you know, I love to win golf tournaments. I love to be in
the situation that I put myself in this weekend, four or five other times this year. It's
just something I dreamed about doing. And to win The Nabisco Championship so early in my
career, that's just a blessing in itself because I really enjoy playing this golf course,
but to put everything together in one week and win a golf tournament takes a little bit,
and especially at a major.  
 
Q. I don't want to jump too far ahead, but with the way you're playing, is it possible
for someone to win a Grand Slam with the way you're playing?
 
 KARRIE WEBB: I guess anything is possible. It's very generous for Nabisco to put up
$2.5 million. But I think with the odds on winning four majors in one year, I'm not saying
it's not possible, but they have got a pretty safe bet. 
 
Q. Tell us about the leap. Were you ready to go? 
 
 KARRIE WEBB: For the last couple of holes, Evan and I had been talking about it. We
didn't know how deep the water was. I just said, "I want to run in do and a big bomb
dive or jump off the bridge or something," but I don't think the water is deep enough
to do that. And then I didn't know if I had to sign my card first before I could do that,
and then when Dottie started pushing me, I just thought, what the heck, get wet now, and
get it over and done with. But there's a pair of sunglasses at the bottom of the lake
right now. I'm sure when the mud settles, you'll be able to see them. I couldn't see them
after Evan and I were in there. 
 
Q. (Inaudible) ... The comparisons to Tiger Woods, are you a little ticked or do you
think you should be getting the recognition on your own? 
 
 KARRIE WEBB: I think the fact that we both -- our careers have paralleled very closely,
and I think when things like that happen, it's only human nature for people to compare us.
But we are two different players on two different tours; so the comparison probably stops
there, I think.  
 
Q. Assessing your chances, but when did you actually realize that it was in the bag for
you? 
 
 KARRIE WEBB: I think when I made the turn and I was still 8 shots, 9 shots up. I think
I wasn't playing bad enough to do anything drastic, and I think Dottie would have had to
make four or five birdies in a row, and me not answer to any of those to really make me
think about it. But I didn't it actually talk to Evan about winning or jumping in the lake
or anything like that until the 16th, 17th hole. So I wasn't going to jinx myself that
early. 
 
Q. As I found out the other day, you spend a lot of long hours out here. Does that
bother you sometimes, the time that you have to put in? I mean, not bother you, but does
it affect you, those long hours? 
 
 KARRIE WEBB: It's tiring. You know, I think it's just like any job that anyone has.
There's a lot of work that goes into it. There's a lot of stress involved. And, you know,
the more work you put into it, the better the results, the more results you see, I guess.
You know, I think what is hard for people to understand sometimes is why you don't play 30
or 40 tournaments a year. It's just because physically, you can't do it. You can do it,
but then those extra tournaments that you play, you're expected to play well, even though
you're tired, and you know, it's just not possible to play good golf and play a lot of
golf all in one year. That's why you see a lot of the top players have maybe not as big a
schedule as other players.  
 
Q. How many people ended up jumping in the lake with you? 
 
 KARRIE WEBB: Well, there was me and Evan and then Celine Dion came in. I don't know why
she ventured in the water. She could have waited until I got out because she had to jump
in the mud as well. Actually, I didn't get to meet her the first two days of the Pro-Am; I
didn't get to meet her. I guess that was a fitting way to get to meet her.  
 
Q. What do you think about playing with 13-year-old kids in the final day, final round,
final group? 
 
 KARRIE WEBB: Aree, well, she's an amazing talent. On the 1st hole today, I had the
biggest smile on my face when she just ripped it off the tee, straight down the middle, no
fear at all. And then I was standing a little bit ahead of her when she hit her second
shot in, and it just whizzed past my ear, and I was like, that was impressive. I was
already impressed after two shots, because to hear that sound of a pure ball strike at 13,
not many -- not many kids, male or female, can hit it like that that young. I think like I
said before, the TOUR is lucky that they can't be out here for another five years so we
can make some money before both of them are out here.  
 
Q. There's a responsibility with being a dominant player, and also some pressure that
goes along with it, too. Are you comfortable with that? 
 
 KARRIE WEBB: I think so. I think that just comes part and parcel with playing good
golf. I really enjoy playing good golf. So I know that there's a lot more responsibility
and commitments, and as long as golf is still No. 1. I think, you know, I'm fine to do as
many things as I can do without it affecting my golf.  
 
Q. What advice would you give to Naree, Aree and her parents? There's some concern
about too much too soon? 
 
 KARRIE WEBB: I think I can understand where people are coming from there. I think the
thing that impressed me more than the way she could hit the ball was the way she handled
herself. It was like she had played a professional tournament before. She marked the ball,
didn't stand in anyone's way. It was like she had been out there forever. Just talking to
her, she still is just a kid, but my advice to her parents is -- to both Naree and Aree's
parents, you know, that they are only 13, and you can play golf for a very long time. You
only have so many years out of your childhood. I just hope that they -- you know, have a
childhood along the way, as well, because they will be out here when they are 18, and they
will be on tour for ten years and look back and they have been playing golf all their
lives and maybe not done as much as she wanted to as a kid. I just really hope that even
though they work hard at their game, that they are just being kids, as well.  
 
Q. I keep hearing that you have a very nice fishing boat, but I don't know much about
boats. What kind of boat do you have? I was talking to Terry Wilcox, and he said that
"at the rate that she's going and the money available for her to win this year, she
can buy a lot bigger lures and boat if she wants."
 
 KARRIE WEBB: The boat that I have is a 23-foot Mako and it's just a -- just a sport
fishing boat. And hopefully the weather in Florida the next four weeks is good enough for
me to be out there a few days a week.  
 
Q. I'm a land lover, what's a 23-foot Mako and do you go in the ocean? 
 
 KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, deep-sea fishing. I've been fresh- water fishing. Only since I've
been over here on the States because I grew up on the coast and those one- and two-pound
fish just don't cut it for me. I have to try and get as big of a fish as I can.  
 
Q. What's your schedule like? 
 
 KARRIE WEBB: Well, I have a month off now and my first tournament back will be the
Chick-Fil-A in Atlanta.  
 
Q. Were there any notes in your locker today, any exchanges before you played? 
 
 KARRIE WEBB: No, I think they were both -- well, I know Aree was looking forward to
just being out there and I got to talk to her a little bit. But they are both pretty shy,
which I can't imagine how overwhelming this whole experience is for them. But I got her to
say a few things to me today. And their English is great, and I found out that they spoke
English before they came here; so I guess that's been a big benefit for them.  
 
 KARRIE WEBB: On 2 I hit my 53-degree wedge to about 12 feet. 4, I missed the fairway
right, again. And missed the green, again. And hit my -- I hit a sand wedge to about 40
feet and 2-putted. 5, I hit a 6-iron in the hole; so it was -- unbelievable. That's only
my second hole-in-one on tour, so it came at a very nice time. I think it was 170 yards.
10, I missed the green left with an 8-iron and chipped it to about six feet and missed the
putt. 14, I hit a 9-iron to about four feet. 18, 5-wood, 5-wood, 9-iron to, I don't know,
30 feet; 2-putt.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT