THE  NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 25, 2000
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







KARRIE WEBB: Am I conscious? I don't know. I didn't feel like it out there. Well, I hit
-- from tee-to-green, I hit the ball extremely well. I think it's probably the best I've
hit it for, I don't even know, maybe even the best I've ever hit it. I only missed really
a couple iron shots. I only missed two greens. And I really even left probably four or
five putts inside 12 feet; I probably missed at least four or five of those out there. I
hit the ball extremely well today and just tried to play my own game and try not to pay
any attention to what else is going on. I did realize that when -- Dottie and Chris
started making some bogeys on the back nine that no one else had really done anything. I
think it just made it easier to fire at the pin, because, you know, I was just trying to
increase my lead as much as I could. No. 2, I hit my 53-degree wedge to about 12 feet. No.
4, I missed the fairway right. Was just short in the left rough to two and chipped it to
about 10 feet and missed the putt. 6, I hit 8-iron to about 12 feet. 7, I hit 7-iron to
about three feet. 14, I hit 8-iron to two feet. 15, a wedge to five feet. 16, a 7-iron to
four feet.

Q. The birdie at No. 14 really took some of the pressure off, didn't it, coming in the
back nine? 

KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, I think so. You know, I had had a number of putts that I had, like I
said, inside 10 feet or so and didn't make any, and when you hit it to two feet, it makes
it a little easier to make the putt. You know it just settled me down a little bit more.
No, I was pretty nervous most of the day, but I think because I was hitting the irons so
well, I felt really comfortable out there. Probably -- I mean, I'm not complaining, but I
probably could have made a few more putts, but when I started hitting in close coming in,
it was pretty hard to miss those ones. 

Q. Karrie, you're quite a dominant front-runner. You know, you've had several
wire-to-wire wins in the last few years. What's the mind set that you take when you know
you've been out in front for a couple rounds, maybe all three days going into the final
round? 

KARRIE WEBB: I think I just never say that whatever the lead that I'm going to win. I
never give myself that luxury until I finish out on the last hole. And I have 18 holes
ahead of me tomorrow, and I'm not too sure what the weather is going to do. You know, I've
got four or five hours of work left ahead of me that I still need to play some good golf,
and I think that's always a key that you don't take it to -- too easy. And when you do
have a lead, you know, two or three shots, the people behind you aren't doing anything,
sometimes it's easy to bop down and just play the same sort of golf that they are playing.
I tried to still play aggressively today and tried to shoot as low as I could.

Q. Congratulations on your round, another fine 67. Like you said the other day, in a
major zone, which you were in before. I'd like to follow up on the same kind of thought,
though. Tomorrow will you be saying, "I'm trying to go out and shoot 67 again,"
or will you try and just watch and see if anyone is giving you a charge or just try to
stay hitting greens and fairways and greens? 

KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, I think just fairways and greens, try and take -- try and make
opportunities that I give myself, try and make some birdies. I don't really have to set a
score, I don't think. I just try and do what I've done the last three days and keep it on
the fairway, first of all, and then try and hit some good shots in to the green.

Q. You said that you were trying not to pay attention to what else was going on, but
are you interested at all in playing with the kid tomorrow or watching her action? 

KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, I saw that, when I was standing on 17 green. I saw it -- I think
it's Aree -- I can't tell them apart, anyway. No. We've been trading notes in our lockers
this week, and they both asked if they could get to play with me at some stage. So Aree,
she has played her way into that, I guess. I'm really looking forward to it. I just can't
imagine what's going through her mind right now, 13 years old, in the last group of a
major. It's hard for me to contemplate what she's going through, let alone contemplate
what she's going through herself.

Q. If tomorrow winds up like today, is there going to be some water involved?

KARRIE WEBB: We'll just have to wait and see, I guess. 

Q. You talk about fairways and greens, but I was out there watching you today, and it's
not just fairways; it's the right side of the fairway; it's the right angle into the
green. When you're not having to worry about how much -- (inaudible) -- what are you
thinking about? 

KARRIE WEBB: Some of the time today, I tried to put myself on the right side of fairway
to come in at the pins. But I think I just tried to hit the middle of the fairway and
ended up -- I don't know if it's just my mind set right now that I ended up putting myself
on the right side of the fairway to come in to the pin. But I did notice that I had that a
lot today, and a lot of it, I meant to do, but some of it, you know, just happened, I
guess.

Q. Karrie, the way you've dominated the women's tour last five weeks, even though you
finished second in one of the five, do you find yourself doing the same things for the
women's tour that Tiger is doing for the men's tour? Do you see little girls coming up to
you saying, "I want to be like you," and "I want to take up golf because of
what you you've done?"

KARRIE WEBB: I think. I think sometimes that's a little hard for me to -- it's not hard
for me to believe, but the fact that I used to that as a kid as well. I used to look up to
Greg Norman and when I was a kid. I just wanted to be just like him, and now the women's
version, I'm pretty close to what he's done. And, you know, I do have little kids, and I
have two 13-year-olds that have been leaving me notes in my locker this week telling me
I'm their favorite player and I get to play with one of them tomorrow. So I'm looking
forward to that.

Q. You said you were a bit nervous out there. Why? 

KARRIE WEBB: Because it's a major. It's The Nabisco Championship, and out of the majors
that we play, this is one of my favorites. You know, I just wanted to play well, and when
the putts didn't drop earlier, I just wanted to stay patient and not make any mistakes and
just try and make some more birdies.

Q. When you were 13 years old, did you dream of playing in a major championship or when
did you realize that you could be out here? 

KARRIE WEBB: It wasn't when I was 13, that's for sure. No, I think when I was 13, I
still had a 15 handicap; so I definitely wouldn't have been messing around playing on the
LPGA. Like I said before, I just can't imagine -- I'm excited to play with Aree, just to
see how talented she is. She is obviously an incredible talent and kid. I just hope that
she has enjoyed every step of the way so far and has a good day tomorrow. 

Q. Karrie, you won the du Maurier, charging from behind, now you've got an 8-shot lead.
You've won tournaments as a front-runner before; Australia comes to mind. How do you stay
focused and keep your game at the level it is at with such a big lead?

KARRIE WEBB: I think I just want to, you know, just do the same things that I've done
the last three days and hit fairways and greens and give myself opportunity to make
birdies and, you know, try and make them when I give myself the opportunity. You know, not
overly try and protect the lead; still try and play the same sort of golf, but with an
8-shot lead, it didn't a good idea to be overly aggressive.

Q. I just wanted to ask you, when was the last time you relinquished an 8-shot lead
with one round to play?

KARRIE WEBB: I don't think I have. 

Q. To help the American sporting public get to know you a little bit better, obviously
when you are playing this well, all phases of your game are going well, but what do you
think your particular strengths are? Why do you think you are so much better than all the
other women out there this particular season? 

KARRIE WEBB: Well, I think the reason -- one of the reasons why I'm playing well this
year is that, you know -- I don't know. I'm doing the same things that I've been doing
last four years. I work really hard on my game. I think -- I've worked with one coach all
my life and we both know my swing inside out. I think that always helps. I'm just doing
the right things at the right time; hitting a lot of greens, like this week. And the
greens -- when I don't hit a lot of greens, I get it up-and-down and I make putts when I
need to and hit shots when I need to, and I think that all adds up to winning a couple of
times. 

Q. (Inaudible.)

KARRIE WEBB: Well, I think it is probably my iron game, and I have been driving the
ball well this year, too. I haven't missed a lot of fairways of late, but I've always
tended to hit a lot of greens in regulation. 

Q. I know how you swing the club. I want to know how good of a swimmer are you, and
have you thought about that at all? 

KARRIE WEBB: Well, I don't want to get too far ahead of myself, but in the past year, I
have thought about it and we'll just have to wait and see. 

Q. (Inaudible.) Very good swimmers in the Olympics?

KARRIE WEBB: We'll probably have a bagful of golf at the Olympics, I'm sure. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT