THE NABISCO  CHAMPIONSHIP
March 24, 2000
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 KARRIE WEBB: Five hours, 25 minutes, that's a pretty long day today. I don't know,
because we were keeping up with the group in front of us. I don't know, I think --
obviously, the course is set up tough, but, you know, I'd be interested to find out what
the first group, what time they played in because it couldn't have been too quick when the
last group is coming in the dark. 
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 KARRIE WEBB: Well, it didn't really affect me a great deal, but, you know, when there's
a two-group wait on 17, that's the toughest par 3 on the golf course, and you've got to
stand there, and it was a back-left pin today, too, which makes it even tougher. You know,
it's just not much fun out there. But everyone has obviously gone through it today. You
can't do much about it. You've got to stay patient and try to stay focused. 
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, I think -- I missed four greens today, but a lot of them were just
through the green. But I think I hit the ball better today than did I yesterday. I gave
myself a lot more chances and I don't feel like I putted overly bad. I think I hit a lot
of good putts that I just either misread or were through the break or not hard enough,
whichever way. I didn't hit many bad putts, but just one of those days where, you know, a
few more putts had gone in, it could have been anything. But I'm very happy with 3-under,
obviously. There weren't a lot of good scores out there today; so I'm very happy with
where I am.  
 
Q. You got off to a great start, birdied the first three holes, as you mentioned, the
bogey on 17 but a nice birdie on 18. Is that going to help you prepare and start off for
tomorrow?
 
 KARRIE WEBB: It's always a good positive way to finish, making a birdie on the last.
You know, I think felt like I made a pretty soft bogey on 17; so, that sort of makes up
for that. 
 
Q. You were a classic case I think of how you can be victimized by the changes on 13.
Can you talk about that how they changed the length, bringing in the rough from the right,
what is that requiring from players now? 
 
 KARRIE WEBB: Well, I think the slope on the right side of the fairway, actually, comes
into play a little bit more, because I know in the past, if you hit a good drive down
there, you can almost carry that slope that kicks everything to the right. You know, I
came out of my drive there and hit it into the right rough, and that rough is -- I think
it could be possibly the thickest rough on the golf course. You know, you just can't do
anything about it. You know it's there. You know you shouldn't hit it there; so I paid the
penalty and made a bogey there. 
 
Q. There was nobody making a move on the leaderboard, does that feel you good? 
 
 KARRIE WEBB: Yes and no. Obviously, that's fine that the course is playing tough, so,
you know, you've got to stay focused, and, you know, fortunately, I made three birdies on
the first three holes, so that really settled me down. You know, I hit a lot of good iron
shots after that, just the putts didn't go in.  
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 KARRIE WEBB: The first was -- what did I say, five feet and 10 feet, and then the third
was 45 feet.  
 
Q. Being paired with Dottie tomorrow, will that influence you at all or will you just
keep to the course and your own mindset for how you want to play the championship?
 
 KARRIE WEBB: Well, I think that will be a good pairing. I think Dottie is going to be
fairly intense, as she always is, and that's a good thing for me. That will keep me
focused. I don't know how close the weathermen are as far as their forecast for tomorrow
and Sunday, but so farther saying the weather isn't supposed to be that great. So playing
with Dottie, you know, she's won here before, and she knows how to get it done. I'm sure
I'll be watching some good golf, which always -- I think is a good thing rather than a bad
thing because it helps me out as well.  
 
Q. Is that going to bother your game at all?
 
 KARRIE WEBB: I don't think. So I'm hitting the ball pretty well right now, but you
never can tell. It just depends how windy it gets. You just have to wait and see. I feel
fairly comfortable with my game right now. We'll just see how things go tomorrow, I guess.
 
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 KARRIE WEBB: I don't know, obviously I felt fairly comfortable on the golf course. I
just feel good about things. You never know, I'm hoping to play well on the weekend, but I
think I'm going to have to play extremely well to win, and I don't think by any means that
the tournament is in the bag for me at all. I think I've got a lot of work ahead of me, a
lot of good players chasing me, and I think that the players -- the players behind me are
glad that the weather is going to be bad because it just brings everyone back into a
bunch. 
 
Q. Did the delay on 17 affect how you played it or how did you play it? 
 
 KARRIE WEBB: No. I hit a good shot in there. I hit it straight at the pin, pitched it
just -- just on the front edge and it released to the back, and you could say it was a bit
of a bad break, but it just rolled up into the long rough. I just didn't hit a very good
-- I just tried to put it down with a 5-wood and hit it about five or six feet past and
missed the putt. 
 
Q. You know, in the evenings, what are you doing to distract -- what do you do at
night? Tiger is playing video games and Fred Couples likes to sit on the couch and watch
TV. What does Karrie do?
 
 KARRIE WEBB: This week I have been so tired. I think the latest I have been awake is
about 9:15. And then I'm normally someone if I can sleep in love to sleep in; I've been
awake at 7:00 in the morning, so ... But I've been having dinner this week straight from
the golf course and just trying to rest up. You know, this year has been pretty hectic for
me and just trying to -- you know, I know I have a month off coming up, but I just want it
try and conserve as much energy as I can to just get through this week.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT