THE NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 23, 2000
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 KARRIE WEBB: Okay, No. 5 I hit a 6-iron to about 20 feet and made that. No. 7, 7-iron
to about 20 feet. 10, I hit 6-iron to about four feet. 11, I hit 3-wood just behind the
left trap in the rough and chipped it to about 20 feet and made that. And 16, I hit 7-iron
to about 18 feet. And that's it.  
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, I missed two greens today, one on 12, and I missed the fairway left,
hit a tree with my second shot and hit a sand wedge to about 12 feet; made that. And 15, I
missed the fairway right, and I had to hit it into the trees and hit it into the left
green-side trap and got up-and-down from there; holed about a 4-foot putt.  
 
Q. Coming into the round, you must be pretty pleased to go through all this prepping
for the tournament, the Pro-Ams, and to come out and shoot 67, you must be pretty pleased?
 
 KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, I think, you know, I wasn't that happy with the way I hit it the
last couple of days, and, you know, confidence is a big thing for me right now. Once I got
on the first tee today, everything that had happened in the past two days pretty much
vanished. And I put a good swing on my first drive and hit the middle of the fairway and
never looked back from there. Hit 16 greens, and I think I only missed two or three
fairways; only two that were in the thick stuff. So, you know, I didn't put myself into
too much danger of making too many mistakes. 
 
Q. Beth Daniel was just in here and talking about your game a little bit and said that
you seemed to be able to -- even when you're not maybe playing -- she thinks you could be
playing even better than you are now and that in times like this, it is your confidence
that is carrying you through; that maybe you don't hit a great iron shot or whatever, but
just have that confidence built up. Do you feel that, too, when you get in a tough
situation?
 
 KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, I think. So like I said, you know, once I pretty much hit the
fairway in the 1st hole, I didn't look back. Like 12, for example, I hit a poor tee shot
and a poor second shot and hit a branch and a tree and had 80 yards to the pin, and I got
it up-and-down. You know, someone who is not working with a lot of confidence might not
get it up-and-down there. You know, I just have a lot of release in my game right now, and
it was good to see some good iron shots today and some putts go in. I was very happy with
my round. 
 
Q. In the interest of fairness, since we wore out Rachel talking about you, would you
talk a little bit about your history with her and what you think of her game?
 
 KARRIE WEBB: Well, Rachel and I grew up playing amateur golf together in Australia. We
played in the same state team a number of times and Australian teams. I think Rachel and I
have -- I've known Rachel since I was 13 or 14. You know, I think Rachel is a great person
and a great player. She had a good amateur career in Australia, and, you know, I think
it's just great to see her playing well over here and being so successful.  
 
Q. When you guys were playing on the Junior teams, did you ever think that the two of
you would be out here? Did you ever talk about it? 
 
 KARRIE WEBB: No, I don't think so. The Australian amateur body is very strict on anyone
talking about turning pro in Australia. It's not like over here in the States where you
talk to the Wongluekiets and they tell you when they are going to turn pro. In Australia,
you mention it to anyone and if it gets back to an official, they are going to say it's
against your amateur status. And so you can't really talk about it unless, you know,
you're talking to someone that -- someone you're definitely sure it's not going to get
back to an official. And I think in some areas, that needs to change in Australia,
because, you know you look at all the golf programs in the world, the Swedish Golf
Federation bringing their kids up to be professionals, and that's what they talk about. I
think that's one thing that I would like to see change in Australia.  
 
Q. Do you believe in being in the "zone," and if you do believe in it, are
you in the "zone" now?
 
 KARRIE WEBB: I think I'd have to say I'm in some sort of zone. Yesterday I left the
course not at all happy with the way I was hitting the ball. And I came to the course
today a little bit earlier and hit some extra balls, and still it wasn't great, but I knew
I could get it around. Like I said a few times, I got on the first tee and hit it straight
down the middle and hit the green and had a chance to birdie and, you know, things just
fell into place after that. I could say that I was in the zone that way, because it
doesn't matter how I hit it before the tournament. Once I get inside those ropes on
Thursday, things seem to go pretty well for me. 
 
Q. On the same note of the zone kind of thing, what's your mind set over the ball when
you're putting? It seemed like today you putted extremely well. What's the mind set over
most of your putts? 
 
 KARRIE WEBB: I don't know. I don't really think about what's going through my mind, I
guess. Obviously, I pick a line and I just -- just want to make sure that I stay down on
it and keep relaxed over the ball, and then stay down on it and hit it up through the
line.  
 
Q. Are you to the point now where you expect to play well every time out and you're
surprised when you do not?
 
 KARRIE WEBB: I don't think you can ever say that you expect to. I think I didn't expect
to today. I thought I could manage to get it around somehow, but to shoot 5-under is
definitely -- I wouldn't say a surprise, but I'm definitely very happy with that. I don't
think I expect to play well all the time, but I know things are going well for me right
now, and, you know, that there's going to be bad days and I just have to try and make them
as good as possible. 
 
Q. You said you weren't happy with your swing. Did you work on anything or call Calvin?

 
 KARRIE WEBB: No. It was really just a timing factor. Just going through, you know,
those monthly things that we get and throws your timing off a little bit. You know, I've
just got to work on things that just help me with my rhythm and timing. You know, once I
got on the course, I got a rhythm and I was walking between shots and felt very good out
there.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT