THE NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 22, 2000
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. After last week's tournament, is the pressure off or was there pressure? Do you feel
like you could start again or exactly how are you entering this tournament mentally? 

KARRIE WEBB: Well, obviously I'm playing very well going into this week. I feel pretty
good about my game, and, you know, I think, you know, I gave it my best shot last week.
And I think every week that I step into a tournament, if I have a chance to win, you know,
obviously I'm trying to do that. And, you know, it just wasn't meant to be. Charlotta
plaid very well coming down the stretch and made some great par-saving putts. And it was
just meant to be her tournament. So, you know, I had stolen a few tournaments from a
couple of people already this year. So, you know, it was my turn to be on the receiving
end, I guess. But no, I'm feeling pretty good about my game. And I'm just hoping to try
and get myself into contention this week and have a chance to win. 

Q. There was a huge amount of media attention and a lot of outside pressure, maybe,
with your bid here to win that many in a he row. Do you feel like now this we week, even
though this is a major, some of that outside pressure has maybe gone away now and you can
really focus in on this? 

KARRIE WEBB: Like I said, obviously, I didn't want to win last week just for the sake
of winning. I think by not winning, the attention probably is a little bit less. But, you
know, obviously I'm still playing well. So, you know, I don't know how much less it is
because obviously, we never -- we're never going to know how much it would be if I had
won. But I think, you know, it hasn't really been any other -- different to any other year
I've been here so for. So, you know, I'm just looking forward to having a good practice
this afternoon and getting my mind set for the weekend. 

Q. The golf course has been stretched out this year to 6,520 or something like that.
Are the changes, the distances that obvious out there or is it pretty much the same golf
course?

KARRIE WEBB: No. It has been stretched out a little bit. And I think any time someone
shoots 19-under, you know next year the course is going to be set up a little bit tougher.
And the rough is probably the thickest I've seen it in the five years that I've played
this tournament. So, yeah, I think -- I don't think you're going to see those scores again
this year, somehow. I mean, last year we had four perfect days of weather, too. So any
time that you play out here and play with no wind and sunny skies, and a course in great
shape, someone is going to shoot good scores, no matter how hard the course is set up. But
I think the course is definitely set up a lot tougher than last year, and you're going to
have to be very patient. You're going to have to try and make sure you hit a lot of
fairways and you hit a lot of greens because the rough is a lot longer out there. And
unfortunately, today was my only look at the course because obviously, an interview here
on Monday, it was slight cyclonic as we say in Australia, and I didn't even venture out
past the parking lot. So the rough is definitely thick. And hit a couple shots out of it
today, but it's very hard to get the ball to the green. You want to be hitting your driver
pretty straight.

Q. There seems to be kind of a pattern in the last few years of the LPGA, certain
players dominating taking turns, you and Juli last year and so forth. Why do you think
that happens and do you think that rivalries or players kind of dominating the TOUR is a
good thing? 

KARRIE WEBB: I don't know if I can really answer your first question. You know, I just
think that players get on a bit of a hot streak, and I know if you get off to a good start
in the year, sort of ends up being a continuous roll. I know that it did for me last year,
and hopefully it will this year. But I think that -- I guess as far as rivalries go, I
think it's good for the LPGA, because it gives you guys something to write about, and it
gets people excited come out and watch that. And, you know, obviously Annika is playing
well this year. She has won once and she's been playing very well. You know, I'm just
hoping to do the same, keep playing well and giving myself chances to win.

Q. Do you feel any less pressure this year, too, now, that you've already got the du
Maurier coming here and not everyone saying, "When are you doing to win your first
major?"

KARRIE WEBB: I didn't think I was going to get the questions of: Are you glad that
you're not getting the questions of not winning a major. But it is a little easier
because, obviously, after the start that I've had this year, that would be the No. 1
question on everyone's list. And it's not, fortunately. So hopefully, you know, I can take
a little bit of my experience from du Maurier and put it to this week and sort of the
never-say-die attitude and hope that I can put together a lower round on tough golf
courses and just try and stay patient.

Q. Where are a couple of the changes on the course and how will they affect play?

KARRIE WEBB: Well, the tee on 1 is moved back 20 yards. I don't think it's going to
affect play that much there. It might just give you an 8- or a 9-iron in there instead of
a wedge. So that's not that big a change. The tee on the 5th is moved back -- I don't know
how far back it's moved, but I think, actually, it's about a better tee for the way the
green is shaped. I think it actually makes the pins more accessible in the back right
instead of -- we're actually playing the hole how it's a designed, rather than hitting
across the slope the way we have in the past. And I think No. 10 has been moved back. I
think the biggest hole is No. 13. We're about 15, 20 yards back on that tee. And when
you're off 15, 20 yards, I can pitch it on the downslope and hit probably a 9-iron 8-iron
to the back of the green; whereas now, I really have to bust one to get it down that hill
even. And it really just brings in a longer shot, I think, probably more of a 6-iron. I
missed the fairway there today so I don't -- I just had to hack it up the fairway. But you
are going to hit a longer shot in there. And 15 has been moved back as well. But it won't
be -- it won't play much of a different club into the green. You just have to hit a driver
off the tee instead of a 3-wood. 

Q. Can you explain what you might be thinking about when you're on the practice range,
just working on your game and then how about mentally in a round of golf, what you might
be thinking about? 

KARRIE WEBB: Well, I normally have just a few key thoughts that I think about on the
range. And, you know, if things are going really well on the golf course a lot of times I
don't really have any thoughts on my mind. But the shot that I have in mind to hit at the
pin. But, you know, a lot of the times, you know, you're not fortunate enough that you're
hitting that well that you don't think about anything. And I normally just think about
those couple of things that I work on on the range with.

Q. I was given an article that was in an Australian paper, and the inference was that
your play down there this year had forced changes in the schedule next year because of the
TV ratings. Are you aware of that or understand it, and could you give us some reaction to
the fan reaction to you in Australia? 

KARRIE WEBB: Our schedule has changed? I have heard that the men's schedule -- the
men's schedule of tournaments has changed so they don't have to come up against our
tournaments. I think the first week that we play down there, the Australian Open in
Melbourne, I think our ratings were 16 to 3 over the men's tournament, and they played
just north of Sydney. And I think that's what they are talking about; that's the
tournament they are scheduling to not clash against any of our events so that their TV
ratings will be a little bit better. But no, I think it's great. I think now we just have
to go to those stations, channels that cover the tournament, and instead of them --
instead of us paying them, you know, they need to be paying us, because we gave them a
great couple of weeks, great golf and very exciting finishes both weeks. You know, the
ratings proved that. I think that's a great step forward for us down there.

Q. Last year your interview here lasted 10 minutes. Are you feeling more comfortable as
being the role model or the marquis player on the TOUR? 

KARRIE WEBB: Why, because I've been here longer than 10? 

Q. Yeah, exactly.

KARRIE WEBB: I guess so. I think is it works both ways, because if there's no questions
being asked to me, then, you know, a press conference will last as long as both parties
are asking questions and answering. But I think what a lot of people don't understand is
that when you come out and you're 21 years old and had the success that I first started,
talking to 20 people like this wasn't something that I grew up knowing how to handle, and
I think it's big art sometimes that the media and people put on you to -- to me, it was a
very hard adjustment. And I think that I've just started every year, I've grown to be
getting used to it and understanding what my responsibilities are and just -- and just
getting to know a lot more of the media people that are out here and being able to talk to
them, even on a personal basis, I think makes it a lot more comfortable.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT