PAGENET CHAMPIONSHIP
November 14, 1999
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








KARRIE WEBB: Obviously, I came into this week, and I knew what was -- what was up for
grabs. I knew I had to have a decent week to win the Vare Trophy, and I had to have a
really good week to win Player of the Year. I was pretty nervous out there today, I tell
you. And you know, Juli and I both played like we were pretty nervous, I think for the
first few holes, and we started to get a couple birdies going and that calmed me down. And
I probably hit it the best today that I hit it all week. But as far as how the year has
gone, you know, it's definitely been a year -- a year to remember, for sure, and you don't
know how many of these years come by. It might only be one; there could be more down the
road for me. But 69.43, I haven't had too many days where I've had to struggle too much,
which, you know, is something that, you know, I've worked hard to achieve. But it also
makes things a little easier throughout the year when you get those birdies rolling and
you see the putts going in. But, you know, even though I had it in my sight, it's going to
take me a little while to really appreciate what I've done this year. It might not even
really sink in until a few years down the track, but it has been just definitely a year
that I'll always remember. When I won du Maurier; was definitely very special for me. I
just hope there is more years like this to come, because there's not much more of a better
feeling than being named the best -- best Player of the Year and to set a scoring record
like I did. 

Q. How do you feel right now? You just lost a playoff and also won something?

KARRIE WEBB: I was telling someone that Se Ri had four wins this year, and three of
them I finished second, two playoffs, and finished second to her at Samsung. She's got my
number right now. But I've got to get myself up and play Wendy's the next two days, which
I know is going to be a little difficult because right now, I'm just pretty mentally
drained. But actually, I was pretty happy with the way I handled things today because I
tried -- it was probably a good thing that I was in contention to win the tournament and
not having to try and finish a certain place to win it. You know, that helped me out a
lot, the fact that earlier I got close to the lead, and even led for a little bit. It
helped me out that I could just think about that.

Q. Does the scoring average mean more in retrospect now, because there's players that
have a great year and win five, six tournaments, but no one else has done this in the
history of the TOUR?

KARRIE WEBB: Definitely. I think that any time you break a record set by previous
players -- you know, I've always said that records are made to be broken. But it's going
to be definitely interesting to see how long this one lasts. I've said that I might not
even -- I might never break my own scoring average. So right now, this could be the lowest
it ever gets, but I could break it myself. But I think as much as I wanted to set a low
scoring average, I really wanted to win Player of the Year, as well. But I also feel that
winning Player of the Year, and there's always only one winner, but I really think that if
we could, Juli and I really deserve to win it together because the year that she's had, I
mean , I've never seen anything like this it. She wins the U.S. Open and she goes to
McDonald's and all they are talking about she win's this week, she wins the Grand Slam;
she does it the first try, which is unbelievable. And she has to win one more tournament
to get into the Hall of Fame, and the very next time she gets into a decent chance to win,
she does it. That was probably what was in the back of my mind today, because she knew she
had to win today, and I knew she could do it. I just needed to concentrate on trying to
win the tournament myself, and, you know, just the way things turned out is obviously the
way it's meant to be. But I really think that it's hard to say that one person this year
was Player of the Year because I think there was two. 

Q. Do you feel any -- your accomplishments have been so great, that maybe you haven't
gotten as much attention as Tiger has had, having a very similar year to yours?

KARRIE WEBB: Not really. I mean, that's just a really hard question to answer because,
you know, Tiger has had a phenomenal year. He's won eight times, including a major, and I
don't think that's including international tournaments. I don't think that -- I think it's
hard that -- I think what needs to happen is that we just stop comparing the two TOURs.
Because we don't ever play -- we play against each other once a year at the Wendy's 3 TOUR
Challenge. I think we all have different aspects of each TOUR that are good, and we have
great players on both tours. And I don't think that you can really compare a man and a
woman. It just -- we weren't made to be the same. We're just not. But we all get the job
done the same way.

Q. What have you noticed about Se Ri the last year compared do this year? Have you
noticed anything different about her at all?

KARRIE WEBB: I think this year she's just grown up a little bit. I think last year, I
think -- not that she didn't know how to win, but her first two wins on the LPGA were
majors. And sometimes I think that she might not -- they are important to her, but maybe
not as -- growing up in Korea, didn't really know how hard those tournaments are to win.
And I think winning four times this year, she learned last year how to win. And this year
she did it because she's -- I mean, she's as good as she was last year, if not better.
She's grown up to the fact that she -- I think she plays her own game more. I think she
doesn't really on Tree as much anymore. I think she does a lot more of her own thing out
there.

Q. Your approach on 18 in the playoff, were you surprised when it took off?

KARRIE WEBB: No, I didn't have a bad lie; I didn't have a great yardage, and I had a
yardage that I had to hit a decent 9-iron, and I needed to get all of it get it there and
just caught it a little thin. 

Q. Can you talk about 17 and 18 in regulation?

KARRIE WEBB: Well, I had a pretty good putt, a chance at it on 16, too. Just totally
misread it, I guess. I thought it was just inside right, and it went to the right. So it
wasn't -- wasn't a good read there. And same with the next hole. I hit a poor tee shot,
but hit a great 9-iron out of the fairway trap to about 10 feet. Again, just read it to
left-center, and it probably was a left-edge putt. You know, at that time of the day, it
is hard, I think, to read the greens because there's either shadows on the greens, or the
sun is at such an angle that it's like the greens are really glary. I found that every day
coming in; that I was misreading a lot of putts. But I'm glad I gave myself a chance on
last two to actually get into the playoffs.

KARRIE WEBB: 5, I hit wedge to about 20 feet and made that. 7, I hit an 8-iron to about
five feet. 8, I hit a wedge to 10 feet. 13, I missed the fairway left in the fairway trap
and missed the green left, just over the fairway trap, and I actually couldn't believe my
luck there. I was in three divots, right on the edge of the bunker, which I don't know how
anyone was ever there before. Just got it on the green and missed the par putt, about 15
feet. 15, I actually hit the fairway there today and hit 5-wood on the green, and 2-putted
from 20 feet. And 18, I hit wedge to five feet.

Q. In the playoff, did you expect Se Ri to make that putt?

KARRIE WEBB: That was exactly the same putt I had, and I knew it was a right-center,
right putt. She would have had to hit a pretty bad putt to miss it, I think.

Q. What was the length of your putt on the playoff hole?

KARRIE WEBB: It was about 20 feet, maybe longer.

Q. You seem to be more comfortable now accepting your role as the best player out here.
Do you feel that way, now that you're --?

KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, obviously, with the year that I've had, I am the best player out
here, by the way that points and stuff go. But, you know, I never really think that going
into a tournament, just because, you know, the year that I'm having, that I am the best
and no one can beat me because I think that's just not the right attitude to have. I
think, you know, there's too many good players out here for me to start thinking like
that, and I've never thought like that before. You know, hopefully I can ride this wave of
good golf for as long as I can, because it has been incredible. There's definitely going
to be a time where it's a down; I know that for sure. But I'm just going to enjoy it while
it lasts. Obviously, when I'm playing well, I know that I can beat anyone if my game is
on. You know, that makes things a lot easier when you're out there in the heat of the
battle, because I've done it, and I know I can do. It's that belief that I have in myself.
It's not something that keeps getting -- has grown a lot in four years. 

Q. Those knocks against you that you aren't a Nancy Lopez. I think you're great with
the media, but have you done anything different?

KARRIE WEBB: I don't think so. I think I've just been myself, and maybe I feel that I
might have opened up a little more to the media. But I think the media has asked me more
questions that I can answer so they can get to know me as well; it's a two-way street
there. I'm not giving the information because it's not being asked of me. And to a certain
degree, I'll answer most questions. You know, I think it's pretty hard to criticize
someone who comes over here, anyone that comes on TOUR at 21, and does what I do, and then
on top of trying to come to grips with the attention of playing so well, to think that
they are just going to waltz in here and be everyone's dream person that talks to the
media and is outgoing. Sure, that happened with Nancy Lopez. It happens with a few of the
girls out here, but it's hard. It's a learning process to talk to the media and know the
things to say and how to say it and to talk to different people every week. You know, I
don't feel like I'm a shy person, but I tend to be shy to people I've never spoken to
before. I think every time I come into the Media Center, I think I get more and more
relaxed with the role that I have sitting up here. 

Q. On 18, I wonder coming in on the playoff hole, you had a good drive there, didn't
you?

KARRIE WEBB: Yeah. 

Q. What happened to Laura, was she hitting driver or playing cool with an iron?

KARRIE WEBB: She hit an iron. 

Q. And she wanted to be longer than that and it didn't work out or what?

KARRIE WEBB: You might have to ask her that question, because I was just worried about
where I was hitting mine. 

Q. Most players who have had your type of season, the following year, they got get a
lot of requests from the media; they face a lot of things they may not have faced before.
Are you ready for this, do you think, or have you had enough experience to cope with this?

KARRIE WEBB: I think I've had quite a bit of experience, and I can tell you right now
that golf is always going to be No. 1. How I play on the golf course is the most important
thing to me. Sure, I know there's going to be requests of my time, and I'm gladly going to
give it to people, if I also can feel like I'm prepared to play golf tournaments. If I
feel like my time is too precious at that certain moment when I'm requested to do
something, golf is No. 1, I will always stick to that, because you won't want to talk to
me if I'm not playing well. So to me, I play well, then we work together. And I will try
to fit in as many requests that I'm asked of, because I feel that that that's good not
just for myself, but for the LPGA. And I understand that's something -- that's one of my
duties as being one of the top players on TOUR.

Q. Have you formulated any goals for next year?

KARRIE WEBB: I think it's too early for that. I don't have much of an off-season, but I
hope that I can continue to play the golf that I've played this year. It's certainly going
to be very hard to top this year, but hopefully I can give myself a few chances next year
to win some tournaments. Now that I've won one major, now I can have some more good
showings in the major next year. 

Q. Talking about the 3 TOUR the next couple days, being around Nicklaus, is that
special, just to be around him and play with him for a couple rounds?

KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, I played in the Wendy's two years ago and Jack played, and that
definitely was a treat to actually be in that -- in the same field playing against Jack.
You know, it's courses that he's designed. You know, just at the players meeting, sitting
there with Jack Nicklaus, and he's one of the people that you're playing against. I didn't
get the chance to play with Jack, and I don't get a chance to play with him this year,
unfortunately, but I definitely have high respect for Jack Nicklaus. He definitely is
probably the best player who ever lived, and some day, I hope that I'll get to play with
him. 

Q. What does the rest of year look like?

KARRIE WEBB: I have Wendy's and I'm playing Diners Club in December. 

Q. Anything else?

KARRIE WEBB: I'm staying over here for Christmas. My family is coming over on the 2nd
of January. As much as I would love to spend Christmas with them, I just thought I'd stay
over here and hopefully have a white Christmas. First time I've ever spent a white
Christmas out of my hometown and away from my family. It's going to be a different
Christmas for me, but hopefully, it will be a good one. I have my mom and dad and my two
sisters and my mom's parents and my mom's sister and her husband and three kids coming.
We'll probably just say the 4th or 5th of January is Christmas Day and spend the day like
we would if it actually was Christmas. 

Q. (Inaudible)?

KARRIE WEBB: I think my mom and dad are playing. My sister backed out on that and I
have another friend from Oakley playing with me.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT