PAGENET CHAMPIONSHIP
November 13, 1999
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







KARRIE WEBB: I had things going there again, and just, as in the past two days as well
as today, just haven't anything after that. I haven't paid a birdie on any of those holes
through three rounds; so that's really where it let me down quite a bit. The last the
couple of days, I really didn't feel like I gave myself many chances. But today, I had
some chances; just didn't go in. Felt like I underread a couple of putts from the back
nine, but other than that, you know, I just -- the last couple of days have really been
in-between yardages where I either have to really hit a really hard iron or really soft.
It's hard to get into too much of a rhythm when you're playing with clubs like that. You
know, I hit a couple left coming in, but I had to hit some really hard in there and that
tended to really come over the top a little bit.

Q. How much did you jet energized by seeing Se Ri fall from the board?

KARRIE WEBB: I only saw it on the 9th hole and I saw that she had gone back to 10, and
at that stage I made a putt to go to 8; so I was two shots behind. Obviously, you're back
in the tournament. You go from being six behind at the start of the day to two behind with
only playing nine holes. And really, I'm only 2-under. It's not like I've gone out there
and shot 5-under for nine holes and I am the reason why I'm only two shots behind. But I
was even more surprised -- I didn't see another scoreboard until 14, and, you know, I
thought Se Ri had a couple par 5s that she might have picked up a little bit and I was
really surprised to see that lory was leading at that stage; she was 9-under. But we walk
down the next board and could see Se Ri was at 10. The scoreboard was a little slow there,
but at some stage, she was leading. I wouldn't say -- I'm surprised at the way she's
played, but it is hard to hold a lead when you still have 36 holes to go and no one is
really chasing you, you're out there by yourself.

Q. Does that get your juices flowing?

KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, but it also brought about 15 other people into the tournament. It's
not just a five- or six-horse race now. There's a lot of people that can win tomorrow.
It's still as much a golf tournament now as it ever has been. 

Q. How do you deal with the frustration of a lipout? Does it have an impact on you?

KARRIE WEBB: The putt that I had a huge lipout was at 13. You know, when I hit the
putt, I thought I pushed it a little, and then -- and I hit it hard; so I didn't think it
was going to take the break, and it actually caught the hole and lipped. So I think if I
would have hit it on the line it would have gone in. And as much of the lip as it took,
you'd think it will go in, it didn't. It's just part of the game. I hit a lot of good
putts coming in. It didn't look like I hit good putts because but I underread a couple of
putts coming in. In it was a little frustrating. 

Q. (Inaudible.)

KARRIE WEBB: Well, Se Ri gets in at 10 -- that's a shame if she gets in at 10. I think
if you're at 5-under, you realistically have a chance. You can shoot 64 out here. 

Q. Do you feel like you haven't gotten as much as you can from this course?

KARRIE WEBB: Yeah. 

Q. Does it make you feel enthusiastic about tomorrow? 

KARRIE WEBB: It does. I hit some good shots today but I'm really not swinging as good
as I would like. But it's almost there. Like on 15, I haven't hit the fairway there. I
haven't been able to get on the green in two, which is really frustrating. I feel like if
I do have a good found, I mean, if I can -- you know, if takes a little bit of luck to
have so many in-between clubs, have full shots in. Hopefully, you know, that luck will
fall my way tomorrow, and then after that, I've just got to make it happen from there. 

Q. Got some better yardages?

KARRIE WEBB: Just make it up. 

Q. You did you say you haven't been able to birdie the last 8 holes all three rounds?

KARRIE WEBB: Yes. 

Q. You really do think in terms of that, don't you; you've got to do something to make
it happen, as opposed to just letting it flow?

KARRIE WEBB: Well, what I mean by that is I can't -- I can't wait for people to make
mistakes. I have to go out and win this. I feel like I have to go out and win the golf
tournament. I can't just let everyone say, "Okay, well, they are all going to shoot
73s tomorrow; so I just have to shoot 70." That could happen. That could be the way
that it goes, but, you know, more often than not, I'm going to shoot probably 4-under to
have a shot tomorrow. 

Q. Did the course play any tougher today?

KARRIE WEBB: Not really. I think the greens were pretty much the same as yesterday.
Although, more of them were softer; so it was easier to trust that they were going to
stop. But just for the three years we have played here, the greens have been consistently
hard. It's just a mind set that you have to get yourself into that you can actually throw
it at the pin. I think it was still out there to be, you know, have a low round. Just got
to keep things on a row. 3-putted the 5th hole and sort of set me back a little bit, and
then bogeyed the 11th. I only missed one green today. I'm not hitting the ball like I
would like, but I'm on the green putting for birdies. 

Q. You're in a potential shoot-out situation. Will it be tough to stay patient?

KARRIE WEBB: I still have to stay patient. Even though I haven't made any birdies on
the back nine, they are still out there. You know, I wouldn't know this for sure, but I
probably played the front nine better than most people have all week. You know, not many
people are doing much on the front nine; so if I can play the front nine similar to the
way I have this week and try to get a couple on the back nine again, I'll be in there with
a shot. 

Q. Do you have any kind of feeling like, well, at least I got a few 3-putts in, you
still made up -- (inaudible)?

KARRIE WEBB: Right. Even with 2-under, I wouldn't have thought I would have made up too
much ground. But two shots behind, you know, is definitely the position I like to be in.
And hopefully, I can do some of that stuff I've done all year. 

Q. A couple of glamour pairing possibilities in terms of marketing, is there anybody
you would prefer to be with?

KARRIE WEBB: It looked like I could be playing with Juli, which I just think that would
be great. I hope things pan out that way; that I get to play with her tomorrow. 

Q. Do you know off the top of your head how many wins you've had (inaudible)?

KARRIE WEBB: I think I was tied for the lead at Office Depot -- so I was in the second
to last group. And then I was leading at the Australian Masters; leading in Phoenix;
leading in Rochester-- I was in the last group -- I think I was, leading. So three out of
six.

Q. Can you go over your birdies?

KARRIE WEBB: 4, I hit 8-iron to, about 8 to 10 feet, it was. 4, I hit sand wedge to 15
feet and 3-putted. 8, I hit 9-iron to 10 feet. 9, I hit sand wedge to about 10 feet. 10, I
hit 5-wood in the left trap and hit it to about four feet. 11, I hit 6-iron to about 25
feet and 3-putted. The other bogey, 5, I hit sand wedge to 15 feet and 3-putted.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT