PAGENET CHAMPIONSHIP
November 12, 1999
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








KARRIE WEBB: Okay. The 1st I hit 7-iron from the right rough to about 25 feet. Made
that putt. 2nd I hit 8-iron to about 20 feet; made the putt. 4th, I 3-putted from about 35
feet. 6, I hit a wedge to eight feet. 9, I hit 53 degree wedge to about twelve feet. 10, I
hit 5-wood just straight of the green to the back trap and hit it to about four feet. 13,
I missed the fairway left on the up-slope of one of the fairway bunkers and hit -- I
couldn't really hit a shot over the tree, so I hit it on; left it short. Then had a
chilly-dip which was really nice and chipped it to about a foot and made that for par. 15,
I missed the fairway left, laid up; hit my 53 degree wedge to about 15 feet, 3-putted. And
that is it.

Q. Happy with the way things are going so far; still within range?

KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, I am. I have to have a good weekend. I let a few slip coming in
which I am not real happy about, but I mean, it is not like, you know, 15 people between
10 and 13-under or 12-under. There is only one person there and there is a good group of
players chasing Se Ri, so she is still got a lot of work to do on the weekend as do we.
There is still plenty of golf left out there.

Q. A little more encouraging the fact that in four days -- (inaudible)...

KARRIE WEBB: It is definitely a course that you can make birdies on. I really found the
greens today a lot more inconsistent than yesterday. Yesterday they were all pretty firm
and you could allow for about five or six yards release, pretty much a given and sometimes
it would be more. Today you'd do that, and you'd back it up. So you know you are having a
30-footer because you are trying to land it 6 or 7 yards short of the pin. That was very
frustrating. I mean, obviously there is a few people out there that handle that pretty
well, but I just couldn't tell myself that those greens are soft. I couldn't get myself to
throw it up there; couldn't trust that it was going to. Then there would be a couple of
greens where you would try and trust it and it would release past the pin or over the
back.

Q. How does that happen?

KARRIE WEBB: I don't know, someone must have watered the greens.

Q. Is that what it is, just inconsistent watering methods?

KARRIE WEBB: Well, I don't know. They were soft on Tuesday, really hard on Wednesday,
pretty hard yesterday, soft today. So -- 

Q. Hard tomorrow?

KARRIE WEBB: Maybe. We will see.

Q. Scores were generally higher today. Is it because mainly of the greens or anything
else that could have contributed?

KARRIE WEBB: Well, Laura shot a good score too. I don't know. I mean, I spoke to Nancy
about it because I thought it could have just been me. She was finding the same thing that
she was getting it to backup or even just release one or two yards where yesterday it was
-- I hit a wedge yesterday, which was a perfect example yesterday, I hit a little wedge
into 12 and pitched it pin-high and it released about eight or nine yards passed the pin.
Today I hit a little wedge in there again. I had more yardage than that, but I hit a
little wedge thinking that I can pitch it pretty much the same yardage as I did yesterday
released to the pin and spun back a yard. Then I have a 25-footer instead of, you know,
maybe having a 10-footer. So just a little frustrating in that area.

Q. Even though I would imagine you are still focused on winning this tournament, does
it take a little bit of pressure off you knowing that that is Se Ri out there at 13 not
Juli?

KARRIE WEBB: Well, I guess. I mean, I still Juli is still at 6 and she has just as much
an opportunity to win the golf tournament as I do. I just can't really -- it is really
hard to really worry too much about Juli, like I said, yesterday, if Juli went out and won
this tournament and I was to finish whatever I had to finish for her to win
Player-of-the-Year, I would have be one of the first people to congratulate her being that
she has had a great year and as much as I want to win Player-of-the-Year, you know, I
would be very happy to see her win as well.

Q. How important do you think it is to leave close the gap (inaudible) ...

KARRIE WEBB: Well, I definitely think I need to get within, what am I, six shots
behind? I have to at least get to three or four. I would be comfortable three shots behind
going into the last round, but if I get closer than that, that would even be better.

Q. You would expect her to have one so-so day?

KARRIE WEBB: Well, yeah, but you can't really -- you can't really expect that. I think
there are probably 29 people that hope that she has a so-so day. You just don't know and
she can go out tomorrow and fire another 6-under and have a so-so day on Sunday and that
is not going to help us because we are going to have to fire two 65s to catch her if that
is the case. So you just can't really worry about it too much. I know I have to go low
tomorrow and see what that puts me, what position that puts me in for Sunday.

Q. Do you think you have advantagebecause you have had success here before and she
hasn't (inaudible)...

KARRIE WEBB: Yes and no. I don't think it really matters a whole lot. She has won on
some great golf courses and some big tournaments, so I don't think it really matters -- I
mean, I feel good out on the golf course because I know I played well here, but she just
shot 66, 66, so she is feeling pretty good too.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT