U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 10, 2015
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  How would you assess your round out there today?  KARRIE WEBB: A little bit up and down.  Not as good as yesterday, obviously.  I didn't get off to a good start.  I settled in nicely after that. Really could have easily have shot even par.  I missed a birdie putt on 14 and then 3-putted 13.  Missed a little one there.  I hung tough and I'm still in a good position going into the weekend.   Q.  Conditions today, did the rain effect it at all?  KARRIE WEBB: It wasn't as wet as I thought it was going to be.  The breeze made it trickier.  We played with nothing yesterday.  Just having something else to think about today made it trickier.   Q.  What is your game plan going into the weekend?  KARRIE WEBB: Maybe try and play a little cleaner round.  I missed some fairways today.  So then putting myself out of position is hard to give yourself good putts.  Hopefully if I can play a cleaner round and give myself a lot more birdie chances, we'll see how it goes. The greens are really slow this afternoon.  You couldn't tell yourself to hit them harder.  You would have downhillers -- I told myself to hit it hard on the last and hit it six foot past.  It was tough really to get the right speed.   Q.  There wasn't a lot of movement on the leaderboard today.  KARRIE WEBB: Amy has obviously had a great round this afternoon.  I'm not sure what it was, but to get to 7-under through two rounds is very solid.   Q.  Do you like the fact of where you are, do you somewhat think about where you might have been if the round had gone well?  KARRIE WEBB: No, you can't do that.  The U.S. Open, you are going to face some adversity at some stage.  I felt like I battled through that pretty well today.  I would have liked to have finished one or two better.  It's not to be.  I've got to have a good weekend.   Q.  Does the success you've had at the Women's Open before have a calming effect for you when you get in a situation like this, getting close to contention and having to make a move?  KARRIE WEBB: You would think so, but each situation is a little bit different.  I do understand where my emotions can go if I let them.  I did a good job of not doing that today and not getting too far ahead of myself. Just on the weekend I've got to play a solid weekend and see where that puts me, and not really -- not try to press, just try to put two numbers together.  Hopefully today is my worst round of the week  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT