DU MAURIER CLASSIC
August 1, 1999
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, what I did the last six holes today was, I mean, I mean -- I don't ever try to think of myself as the best player in the world, but I played like I was.  The putt I made on 13 was probably the one that won it for me, because if I had made bogey there, really didn't have a chance to win from there, I didn't think.  Just, that was a huge putt, then gave me a lot of momentum to make some birdies coming in.  I knew that there was birdie holes coming up.  I just had to give myself a chance.  I really did that. I hit it close, 13, 14, and 15 -- no, 14, 15 and 16.  And even 17, I had a decent chance.  I didn't make any putts early on in the week, and they just all dropped on the weekend.  I am glad they came when they did. 
 

Q.  You made a point on TV of saying no more pressure, no more answering questions about that first major.  Was it that much of a burden?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  Not really.  It wasn't really.  But if I went into the next year, you know, not that if I won or lost today, I still would have gone into next year, approach the majors exactly the same way.  But now I just don't have to -- I mean, it is just a set of questions that I don't get asked anymore.  It really -- I mean, I just can't even believe the three and a half years that I have had out here so far.  It is just -- I just can't ever imagine that this would have happened to me so quickly.  With people asking me:  Is the next thing you want to do is win a major?  Sure, it is.  But I have only been out here three and a half years, so give-me-a-break sort of thing.  Like I said,, just takes away those questions next year at Dinah Shore.  As far as mentally for me, maybe I will play better the first two rounds from now on because I have won.  I don't have to try and make myself get into contention in a major. For me, personally, probably be mentally on the golf course during a major, be really -- I mean, it is going -- you know, hold me through a lot of majors to come, I think. 
 

Q.  Probably it will be when are you going to win two.  But on the front 9, when you hit a lot of shots stiff, were you getting a little frustrated?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  Not really.  The only one I was really disappointed I didn't make was on 9 because I would have pulled within two right there.  That was the only one I really was disappointed at.  I still made a good par-putt after that, because I sent it about five foot past.  Yeah, I mean, the birdie chances I gave myself, I pretty much made them except for 9.  8, if I walk away with a birdie there, I am really happy.  I just really didn't give it a good run at it.  But a par on that hole, I will take it.  So just really needed to -- I was a little disappointed I didn't make birdie on 12.  Felt like I gave one back there.  But like I said,, I definitely made a great par on 13.  That is what I needed. 
 

Q.  At some point today did you think:  I can't catch it?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  Not really.  If I didn't -- I knew if I didn't make the putt on 13, I couldn't -- as it is, I probably could have, because I would have tied her.  But the whole momentum swing would have shifted, and it wouldn't have given me that extra boost to do what I did.  I think 13 was the hole that won it for me, like I said,. 
 

Q.  When you get going on that birdie tear like that, what does it feel like?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, it just -- you got -- I just try and calm myself down.  But I want -- I just could feel that I was going to hit it close.  Once I hit it close on 14, I just knew, I just knew I could hit it close after that.  And the shot into 15, I mean, I was right in between clubs there. I had to hit a real little 8-iron; I stiffed it.  I mean, when I sit and think about it, I can't believe I do those things.  But when I am out there, I know I can do it.  I guess that is the reason I can do it, because out there I believe in myself that I can do it. 
 

Q.  Was there any advantage today playing with Juli?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  I think it was great.  I love playing with Juli.  And I mean, not just because she is a great player, but just she is a lot of fun to just to walk down the fairways with. We can always strike up a conversation about something.  I think -- I haven't spoken to her, but I think she was trying to settle me down a little bit when we were walking.  I don't know.  I think it was 16 or 17, she asked me if I had seen any movies lately.  And so we started talking about a few movies that I had seen.  I mean, that is just the way Juli is.  And she has had a tremendous year this year.  I really want to see her get another win, get into the Hall of Fame.  She really deserves it. 
 

Q.  Your scoring average is below 69 this year.  How do you explain that consistency?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  Really, I can't explain it too much, except that I work really hard at it.  The putts have been going in this year a lot more than they have in the past three years.  I might never have another year like this, as far as scoring average goes.  I might never have a scoring average this low again, so setting the standard pretty high for myself. 
 

Q.  Can you give us an idea what it is like to stand on the 18th with a one-shot lead and watching Laura Davies tee it up on the 18?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  I didn't actually watch her play -- I  didn't watch her play to the green.  I watched the chip and putt. But you just can't sit there and think she is going to make par, because you just -- and think that you have won it.  I was thinking that I was in a playoff the whole way.  Well, after she bogeyed 17.  But I didn't know she bogeyed that until I got to the score tent.  I pretty much -- I mean, I didn't think that Laura would make -- I thought she'd make birdie.  I thought I was in a playoff, and I was preparing myself for that. 
 

Q.  You got emotional.  Did it hit you all of a sudden?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  I tried to fight it back before she finished, because she could -- we could have gone into a playoff. She could have holed that chip shot and won.  But I knew that I couldn't have done anything else but what I did this weekend.  I mean, if I didn't win, I gave it my best shot.  I was never going to walk away disappointed if I didn't win. 
 

Q.  In light of the end of your 6-week losing streak, how satisfying is that when you think that, I mean, you have had some good summers, and Annika has had some good summers, and -- that you have been able to keep it at such a level for all the way through in August now?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah, honestly don't know how I do it week-in and week-out, because somehow I find something every week to put me into contention or at least scraping the Top-10.  I don't really have an answer to it except, like I said, I work hard and confidence is a big thing too.  I really believe in myself, and I know what my ability is, and I am not happy with anything less than the best. 
 

Q.  Probably an added bonus that you came here with your mom?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah, it is.  A couple of years ago when I won my first Australian Masters was just awesome because none of my family and friends had ever watched me win, so it was great. Then this year in Australia everyone saw me win again.  I didn't know if I have won a major, if it was going to be one that any of my parents would see, that mum or dad were over.  And, fortunately, mum was here.  And I really wish my dad was here as well. 
 

Q.  Were you talking to her after?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  I couldn't see her all day.  I saw her when I was going to the 18th tee.  And then I saw her when I was finished.  But the crowds were so huge out there, I didn't see her all day. 
 

Q.  Before you came in here, you were speaking with your dad on the phone.  What did he have to say?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, he is a little bummed that he wasn't over here, you know.  He had just heard -- he had actually heard before we got ahold of him.  But he is proud of me.  And even though he is not here, his thoughts are with me. 
 

Q.  What are their names?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  Evelyn and Robert. 
 

Q.  What time is it over there?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  8:30 in the morning. 
 

Q.  What was your practice routine yesterday?  Same as  Friday?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  No, I putted a little bit.  I would have felt guilty if I didn't do any practice, so putted for a little bit.  That was it. 
 

Q.  When you look back at your career, how much did you gain from that week or however long you spent with Greg when you won that tournament and spent -- is that valuable at all to you?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  I think the most valuable part of that was that as a kid growing up, looking up to Greg Norman, I got to meet my all-time idol and someone I looked up to.  And a lot of people never get -- at that stage, I was 16 or 17 years old and didn't know that I was going to be sitting here eight years later.  Just the opportunity to get to meet your idol -- a lot of people never get to do that.  I think that was the best thing I got out of that week. 
 

Q.  Laura was in here before, saying that when she went out with the lead in the morning, she had a definite strategy in mind.  Do you think it was -- I mean, the fact that you were behind, did it allow you to go out and be aggressive because you knew you had to shoot --
 
KARRIE WEBB:  I knew that -- at least 6-under again.  And I didn't know if I could get it out of the course, but I had to play aggressive.  And I think -- I haven't spoken to Laura, but I think I had to catch her off guard, because three-shot lead, really, she is thinking that if she doesn't make any mistakes, she has got it in the bag, maybe one or two birdies.  I whip up three in a row, and I think that had to catch her off guard.  It would have caught me off guard if I was in her position.  Then you got to think about making birdies now to win the tournament, where your mindset has just been:  Just keep it in the fairway; get it on the green, and if you make one, great.  So I think obviously the way I did it, you know, she -- in her position, she didn't do anything wrong, I don't think.  I think she just played great.  I don't know how she made the bogey on 17.  But, you know, Laura is a great player.  I think everyone would love to see her in contention a lot more.  I am sure we will. 
 

Q.  She heard the roar.  She knew that you were doing something special up ahead of her.  With the way you have been playing, your 6th win this year, do you consider yourself to be one of those players that maybe intimidates some of the other players in the field when you get on a roll?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  I think a little bit.  I think definitely people know that when I get on a roll like that, that, you know, I am just going.  They have to try and, you know, stay ahead or keep up, or whatever the case maybe.  But I knew those roars were the other factor that was catching her off guard, because I don't think, really, no one had put any pressure on her all day until that moment.  The only pressure she was feeling was just from myself and the fact that she was playing a major, I knew I needed to do that.  I knew I needed to get something, and the crowd was great.  I felt like I was playing in Australia.  I think it was  probably the commonwealth thing and Laura, in the commonwealth as well, so it was a win/win situation, I think, for the crowd. 
 

Q.  What has your success done for women's golf in Australia, do you think?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, I think my success, as well as all the Australian girls this year, Rachel won twice; Mardi Lunn is having a great year too.  I think it is just -- it just --  I don't think we will ever have a big Tour down there.  But as long as we can keep producing great golfers that come out of Australia, I think that is enough reward for me, and I think it is for everyone else that plays out here. 
 

Q.  When you are chasing somebody like that, Karrie, do you prefer being in the same group with them or, as you were today, a couple of groups ahead?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  It just depends.  Today, I liked the fact that I was in front, because she is hearing roars and she just has to assume that it is me.  Then there was a couple of times there was a roar every -- on the 16th green, Juli made a putt, Christy made a putt, then I made a putt.  So she knew that I at least made birdie on that hole, because there was three roars.  I think that was the advantage, because she can't see what I am doing.  Or she knows -- all she knows is that she has to get going herself instead of in a more defensive mode -- not that she probably was in a defensive mode, but she wasn't trying to make any mistakes. 
 

Q.  How does it work for you not hearing any roars behind you, though?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, we heard a few.  I didn't know who it was.  I did hear that one on -- did she birdie 16? 
 

Q.  Yeah.
 
KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah, I heard that roar.  Didn't know whose roar it was until I walked off 18 -- standing on the 18th green, they put it up on the board that she went to 11.  At that stage, I knew I had to make my putt.  And I still didn't think it was going to be good enough, because I thought that she would get at least one birdie in the last two holes.  But just the way it turned out was good for me. 
 

Q.  Did Juli say anything to you?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, she didn't -- she took off -- she couldn't really congratulate me because I hadn't won yet.  But, you know, she just told me how awesome I played and especially down the stretch.  It feels good coming from her after the year that she has had.  You just know that she genuinely means it, as I do to her when she plays well. 
 

Q.  Who sprayed the bubble?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  It was actually beer.  I stink right now, but -- there was a few caddies sitting, and players, actually, that were just sitting there watching the last couple of groups come up.  And I was not expecting that.  (laughs). 
 

Q.  Will you and Juli motivate each other, you think, the rest of the year because of Player-of-the-Year?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, I think it already started.  I know for me, after I won in Rochester, you know, I just -- I couldn't believe I had already won five times.  I think I didn't think that  I had any of those end-of-the-year trophies in the bag.  But the fact that Juli won McDonald's really helps me out as a motivation that, you know, just to stick in there every week and try and finish in the Top-10.  Last couple of weeks it has gone back and forth, who has been leading the money list.  Juli, after McDonald's, has pretty much leading Player-of-the-Year.  But, you know, it is a healthy thing, and it is good for me because it motivates me.  I don't know -- I think Juli is just so high up in the clouds that she doesn't really -- I mean, obviously she knows if she wins Player-of-the-Year that she -- if she doesn't win another tournament between now and then she wins Player-of-the-Year, she is in the Hall of Fame.  I couldn't lose Player-of-the-Year to a better person. If that is the way it is, you know, I couldn't argue with that. It would be a great way for her to get in the Hall of Fame. 
 

Q.  Did you have to make your mom French toast this morning?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  No.  We have been eating out here at the du Maurier lounge. 
 

Q.  Are you playing next week?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  No.  Going back to Florida with mum for a week off, then I go to the British Open. 
 

Q.  When is the last time you spoke with Mr. Haller about your golf swing?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  I spoke to him Wednesday night. 
 

Q.  Is that a common thing, once a week sort of?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  Pretty close to once a week.  If not, it has been actually pretty regular this year.  Once a week probably. 
 

Q.  Anything this week that was helpful?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah, he said that my videotape of my swing was I was swinging it good and I was calling up to see if he had any advice.  He said:  No, it looks good.  So it was good that, you know, even though I wanted a thought, it was good to hear that he thought that my swing looked good.  That was enough for me. 
 

Q.  Does he say that often?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, sometimes -- I mean, a lot of the times he does, but there is always a couple of things that he would like to see, you know, we are working on a few things from last December, and he is always checking on those.  But he said it looked great and, you know, I just went with that. 
 

Q.  He gave you a clean bill of health?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah. 
 

Q.  What is going through your mind - 3-wood 18, I take it?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  5-wood. 
 

Q.  What is going through your mind standing over that shot knowing what is at stake?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, I was right in between clubs pretty much there because I had 220 to the pin and only 4 behind and that wind was pretty -- it was hailing pretty hard at that stage.  I thought 5-wood -- I thought that it would probably be a little too much, but 3-iron, I didn't think I'd get it all the way back there.  It was even going to be a pretty big 3-iron to carry the  front.  I would have to hit it solid and high.  So I just went with the 5-wood and I -- I didn't grip down on it a lot, but a little bit, just really swung it just solid, easy swing, didn't try to kill it.  I didn't need to kill it.  Hit it great.  Mike Ritts from the Golf Channel was telling me that he thought I got unlucky there; that if it had pitched a yard short it would have pitched into the mound and probably not gone through the green. But I thought that where I was, better than putting from the front.  Two putts from down the front was -- Juli did it, but my long putting hasn't been the best the last two weeks.  I was pretty happy with where my ball had finished. 
 

Q.  Your thought over 6-footer or 5-footer?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  On the last? 
 

Q.  Yes.
 
KARRIE WEBB:  Just I knew I had to make it.  Actually it was just like a left center putt and just keep your head down. 
 

Q.  Your caddie says that to you a lot before?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah, keep my head down. 
 

Q.  One of the keys would be the rest you had this week.  You must have felt rested coming on the last nine since you cut down your practice schedule a little bit?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  Probably.  I think the adrenaline was carrying me the last six holes.  It wouldn't have mattered how tired I was if I was playing the golf that I was, the adrenaline was definitely carrying me down the fairways. 
 
KARRIE WEBB:  1, I hit a wedge to four feet.  2, I hit a 7-iron over the back left and chipped it down the front of the green and 2-putted from, I don't know, 45 feet.  3, I hit 5-wood on the green to about 30 feet 2-putted.  7, I hit a 9-iron to about five feet.  14, I hit 8-iron to about seven feet.  15, I hit 8-iron to -- yeah, eight feet.  16, I hit sand wedge to about eight feet.  And 18, 5-wood just through the back, chipped it to about four, five feet. 
 

Q.  How long was the putt on 13?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  It was about close to 20 feet.  18, 20 feet. 
 

Q.  How have you matured, do you think, over the last couple of years as a golfer?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  I think the ability to hit the shots really hasn't -- it has improved a little bit but I think the confidence that I have and the belief that I have in myself, that helps me hit the shots that I did coming down the stretch.  It is amazing in the first couple of days I had all these thoughts with my swing and with my putt, putting, had all these key things through every part of my swing and it just wasn't as good and then yesterday there was no thoughts.  I just -- to just to keep everything in a good tempo, good rhythm.  But over my putting, which I had putted pretty terrible the first two days there, was no thoughts in my head, just keep my head down.  I didn't think about where I needed to get it back to and through and -- so the putts went in.   Then I practiced yesterday afternoon and it was just trying to work out why the putts went in and what I did right yesterday and really couldn't work out what was different; probably just that I hit better putts and just believed that I was going to make them.  Today I did the same thing; didn't think about anything; especially down the stretch with my swing.  It was just to keep good tempo and just knew that I could hit those shots.  Then with the putts, just keep my head down and just hit it on the line. 
 

Q.  Is that unusual that you wouldn't have some thoughts? Usually do you have a few as you play?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  It is not unusual when I get in that position because I can sit here and tell you now if I watched it on TV, I would have been in awe of the person that was doing that.  Just to when I am out there, when I think about it now, I don't know exactly what was going through my mind.  I know that there was a lot of adrenaline.  I was nervous.  But I have so much confidence in myself, like I said, that I just step up and do it and if it doesn't happen, it is just not meant to be.  I couldn't have given it more of a better shot this weekend than any time else.  I think, like you said, if I had walked away 2nd on Friday afternoon, I would have -- if you would have told me I was going to finish 2nd, I would have taken it. 
 

Q.  The confidence you say is tremendous, but it was gaining, what, in a period from last year or something, can you put a measure on it when it started to increase, or is it a gradual thing?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  I won my second start out in the LPGA, won the British Open the year before.  It has just been not a slow progress, it has been pretty fast.  I would never say that what I have done in three and a half years is, by any means, a slow pace.  I just don't have answers for things like that.  It just -- I guess it is just meant to be and I am in the position I am meant to be in and I do it.  I work hard at it.  I think I deserve it because I do work hard at it.  There is definitely a lot of luck involved with it too because there is a lot of players out there that are just as talented as me and don't have nearly the success. 
 

Q.  Do you ever surprise yourself when you go home tonight and go:  Wow, I shot 66-66 in a major?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah, that is -- like I said, I just -- the last six holes, it wasn't like someone else was playing for me but it was like I was watching someone else do it and then I did it. I don't know, it just -- it is -- I mean, when I sit down next week and think about what I did on the weekend, it will just -- I mean, it is just amazing.  It is -- it will be definitely something I will remember for a very long time. 
 

Q.  Johnny Miller once said that he got to the top of the mountain; he said:  "What is next?"  Whereas, a player like Nicklaus gets to the top of the mountain and says:  Where is the next mountain?  Where do you fit in?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  I definitely -- I am not even halfway up the mountain yet.  I have got a long way to go.  You know, for things to have happened so quickly  obviously, it is hard to set goals, but I love being in the position that I am in.  I love playing good golf and I love having a chance to win.  To me, that is all that I need to drive me is playing good golf and having a chance to win.  And then whatever else comes along with it, that is just an extra bonus. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT