SPRINT TITLEHOLDERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 1, 1997
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
KARRIE WEBB:  First hole, I hit 7-iron to about 15 feet.  Made that.  6, I hit I think a 6-iron to - I don't know, about 40 feet.  7, hit 8-iron to 2 feet.  11, I hit a wedge to three feet.  12, I hit it in the fairway bunker off the tee and then I missed the green and I didn't get up-and-down.  Putt for par; it was about 20 feet.  I birdied 13.  I hit a sand iron there to about eight feet.  And that is it. 
 

Q.  How long was that first putt at 14?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  I don't know.  About 50 feet, I think. 
 

Q.  Feel like you just kind of picked up from last year, out on that course, feeling comfortable?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  Well, I mean, 4-under was probably the worst score I could have had today.  No, I drove the ball terrible today and the first five holes I missed 3 birdie chances, 3-putted the fifth and missed two putts inside ten feet.  So, you know, I felt like I could have got off to a much faster start.  That is when I missed the fairways after that.  I think I was trying to force it a little bit.  Then I just lost confidence after that, after I had sort of, you know, made a few more birdies, still wasn't comfortable with my driver.  Really didn't hit it that well today.  When I did hit it well, though, I was giving myself great opportunities to make birdies.  So I feel like if I get my driver on the fairway, you know, I feel like I am swinging it good and putting good, so..... 
 

Q.  You sort of feel good that you managed to get through that then, not playing well, but still --
 
KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah.  Obviously, I am still, you know, put myself in a good position after one round.  Scores appear to be really low today, so, you know, I am just glad that I kept up at the pace of play like everyone else is playing and we will just see what happens for the rest of the week. 
 

Q.  Going out in the afternoon how were the greens?  Were they spikey, the greens?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  These greens are pretty good.  They spiked up a little bit.  Compared to other greens we played on, they are pretty good. 
 

Q.  When you were missing your drives, one way or the -- 
 
KARRIE WEBB:  No, it was left and right.  It wasn't really, you know -- if I missed one left, the next one I missed right.  So, it wasn't -- my tempo was just a little quick.  It wasn't, you know, just wasn't swinging at it easy.  I was really slugging it there for a little while.  I did that and I just lost confidence with it. 
 

Q.  The whole group you were with seemed to be doing pretty well in spots.  Does that help you when some birdies are being thrown around?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  I think so.  I think it is good -- because no one is playing really bad golf, so you don't have to not watch someone hit off the tee because they are hitting it bad or something like that or watch them not putt - not watch them putt because they miss a putt, so it is good that everyone was playing good because it was sort of, you know, everyone was feeding off each other a little bit. 
 

Q.  Do you feel any pressure to defend, any nerves coming into this?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  Only pressure really was just, you know, all the activities that you have to do as a defending champion.  That sort of wore me out a little bit.  And, I am sort of glad that -- I have a champions dinner tonight, but after that, I think I can just really concentrate on golf.  Not that I mind, because I love being defending champion, because last year was really special to me, but it is just -- it is just an extra long week when you are defending. 
 

Q.  Are you going to go to the range now and work on your driving?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  Yeah, I will go out, hit some drivers; just have a few putts as well. 
 

Q.  On the second shot on 18, what did you have in there?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  204 to the pin. 
 

Q.  What did you hit?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  5-wood.  Didn't really touch it.  I hit it out where I wanted to. 
 

Q.  Was that ball sitting down kind of --
 
KARRIE WEBB:  It was -- you just didn't want to be too cute with it and not get it on the green, just come out really hard.   Sometimes you can take a big swipe at those and they go nowhere and this one just like flew. 
 

Q.  Why does this course seem to suit you so well?
 
KARRIE WEBB:  I don't know.  I feel really comfortable even though I missed 9 fairways today.  They are wide fairways.  And, there is not -- the greens are generous too and I just feel, especially today, when I hit it on the fairway, I just felt like I could hit it close to the pin all the time.  I don't know why it is.  I just feel really comfortable out there.  Then I was rolling the ball pretty well.  So, you  know, I felt like I could make putts as well and I think when that happens, that is why I think my driver went off when I was missing putts.  It sort of goes through my whole game and I try and force the rest of my game try and make up for my putting.  But, once I started putting a little bit better again, you know, I started hitting a few more fairways and feeling a little bit more comfortable out there.  So, the main thing for me in my game is if I can feel -- even if the putts are missing, if I feel like I am putting them well, then the rest of my game stays at a calm level. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT