KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 13, 2015
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  KARRIE WEBB: Inbee, shooting 7-under, that's an incredible round on this golf course.Q. Tied for third, still a few strokes back, how do you feel about your position going into tomorrow?KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, well, if I had told you I was going to shoot 1-under today, I wouldn't have thought I was going to be six behind.  It's going to take a big round tomorrow from me and probably some help from the leaders.  But you know, I can only control what I can do, so hopefully put together a good one and see if that's good enough.Q. Doubly tough because there's two up there, as opposed to one?KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, but maybe they will be playing each other and hopefully not setting a hot pace like they did today, and the group of us at 8-under can maybe get out a couple groups earlier and get on a roll and put a bit of pressure on them.Q. Having won so many majors, what advantage does that give you tomorrow as far as mentally going in?KARRIE WEBB: Well, you know, it's not a course that you can go for broke.  You still have to stick to your game plan and just hope that you're hitting quality iron shots and giving yourself plenty of looks at birdies.  Hopefully I can put together a similar round to what I had on Thursday and we'll see what happens.Q. Being six strokes back, how aggressive do you play?KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, there's going to be pins that you can't attack or can't get near.  I think you still have to play smart.  There's no point going out there and going at everything.  I think I didn't do that on Thursday and I still managed to shoot 5-under. And I felt like at one stage, I had a putt to go to 7-under, so you know, I feel like I have the ability of doing that without going crazy.Q. You started to talk about your overall impressions of Sei Young?KARRIE WEBB: She played unbelievably well today.  I was very surprised to see her 3-putt the last, because she didn't look like missing a shot today.  And even on 10, she missed her tee shot, but she regrouped and played really well after that.  It was impressive to watch pretty much how flawless it was except for a couple of shots.Q. Suzann earlier said she never thinks she's too far behind on the final day.  Is that kind of your mentality?KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, I think so.  I think the course is there to shoot a good score.  I don't know if I saw 7-under today, but obviously it's out there.  And there's also an even par or a couple over out there. If the leaders are putting pressure on each other and think that they only have to worry about each other, hopefully the group at 8-under can get off to a good start.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT