KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 12, 2015
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Clubhouse lead, has to feel really good?KARRIE WEBB: Nice to finish with a birdie on the last.  It was a little bit more difficult today.  I think the greens really dried out a little bit, overnight even, I thought they might be a bit more receptive this morning.  It was still quite challenging to get the ball close to the hole.Q. You said yesterday you started out with birdie and that helped to settle you into the round.  Did you feel pretty smooth throughout this round?KARRIE WEBB: I was a little antsy.  I didn't sleep great last night.  I don't know if it's been awhile since I've played with that much adrenaline.  I just still had it in my body when I was trying to go to sleep with the quick turnaround. But yeah, I mean, I probably didn't get off to as smooth a start as I have been the day before but I really made some good pars early on and I made a great birdie on 8.  And actually, probably which kept the momentum going, I spun it off the front on 9 and got it up-and-down, which was a huge up-and-down.Q. The par 3 to start off this week, is that more difficult for you for a major championship?KARRIE WEBB: It's unusual for sure.  You know, there's nothing better than having a wide open fairway and blasting a driver off the first.  That's as comfortable as you can get. You know, it's an opening-hole challenge that straight up you have to have good distance control on the first swing.Q. Has the experience lived up to everything you expected for this tournament?KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, so far.  I think the course is playing really nicely.  Like I said yesterday, if you hit good shots, you're rewarded and you can be penalized for the poor ones.Q. Throughout the field, scores are notably higher today.  What's different out there?KARRIE WEBB: I just think the greens are firmer.  It's just a little more challenging to get the ball close.  The wind is out of a slightly different direction so the course -- I think the longer holes yesterday played a lot shorter than they -- a lot longer today than they did yesterday.  So I think that's making a little bit more challenging. It's hard to get -- tucked pins and then the greens are getting firm, it's hard to get it in there close.Q. On a golf course that nobody has ever played before in this sort of situation, how much does experience in major championships play into you'll approach the weekend?KARRIE WEBB: If we say that, it counts for a lot (laughter).  I feel comfortable with where I put myself.  Who knows if that will be leading or tied for the lead or one behind tomorrow.  I'm just really happy to have played the course really solidly for two days and see what happens on the weekends.Q. Is there anything about this course that will bring in more of the quality or marquee names on the leaderboard heading into the weekend?KARRIE WEBB: Yes and no.  I think it demands good golf to be played.  So you would seem to think that the top players in the world will be on the leaderboard throughout the weekend.Q. How are the crowds out there today?  Were they up from yesterday?KARRIE WEBB: I think so, yeah.  We had a good following out there.  So, yeah, I think they were better today.Q. Does that make a difference for you guys when you can hear some noise and applause?KARRIE WEBB: I think so.  I've got a few friends in town, too, so I know there's a few people in the crowd pulling for me.Q. You said yesterday that you felt like you had some really good golf in you the last couple weeks but you felt like you had not been playing up to your potential.  Do you feel like you are now?KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, it's been what I've been expecting to see a lot sooner than this week.  I think some of the stuff I've done this week has kept the momentum going.  Like I said I made a great up-and-down on 9.  It wasn't necessarily a poor shot hit in there.  It was one yard short of being a great shot. Yeah, I've done all the right things this week and even the swings that haven't been so great, I've been able to make par or at worse bogey.Q. With the course playing difficult, is it more important to take advantage of the par 5s and scoring opportunities today?KARRIE WEBB: I think so.  Today I think I played only 2-under, birdied two on the back nine.  Yeah, I think it's definitely important, but I think some of the pin positions -- the pin position on 15 today, it's really dried out around there.  You could come up short chipping up to that pin, it's a really delicate chip shot, even though it's uphill. I think that they have set the pins -- the pin on 9 is a very challenging pin to get close to because it's a blind third shot.  So it is; you do want to take advantage of it, but there's other scoring opportunities out there.  There's a few short par 4s and a couple of short par 3s.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT