KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 11, 2015
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  KELLY SCHULTZ: Good afternoon, everyone.  We'd like to welcome in Karrie Webb, Karrie, a great 5-under par round on what is definitely a difficult golf course. What was really working well in your game today?KARRIE WEBB: I hit the ball really solid today.  I missed a couple of fairways I think.  My iron play was really solid and made a few putts.  But I didn't really have to work too hard on a lot of par putts today, so I think that's always nice out here that you don't have that stress. But yeah, it was a really solid round and I got off to a good start, which birdieing on 10 and 12.  So I think that really settled me down to really trust what I've been doing, and I did it from start to finish today.  So I was really happy about that.Q. What is it about this golf course that really makes it such a good major championship test?KARRIE WEBB: Well, I think even though the fairways are fairly generous, I think with the slopes of them, you really have to shape your tee shots to make sure you keep it in the fairways.  There are some blind tee shots, so you have to trust your lines and today they actually moved tees around a little bit.  So our lines, we had not hit off any of those tees so it was a matter of really trusting that they knew where the fairway was and the lines that you had to hit. But then I think the real key to being able to score around here is distance control with your irons and trying to leave yourself with as many putts below the hole as possible.KELLY SCHULTZ: We talk about it's the inaugural year of the name of this championship and the first time these two have come together, but this championship has so much history.  What has this championship -- you've played in all the different majors, but what has this championship in particular meant to you?KARRIE WEBB: I think obviously it's the longest-run LPGA event in the history of the LPGA.  So you can't call the U.S. Open the longest-running because it's run by the USGA. I think we have a very proud history and many great players over those decades have won this championship.  And I think what's great about The PGA of America and KPMG coming on board is that it's really going to highlight that history and continue it forward into the future and make it a bigger and better event, and what it really has deserved over the years.Q. Do you have a feel this week with the course and the fans and the events leading up that this is a true major feel to it?KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, it definitely has that buzz to it.  I think any time that you play on a course as quality as Westchester Country Club, I think that already gives it a major feel.  And the way things have been set up and the way we've been treated this week certainly has that buzz for sure.Q. You were Brooke Henderson at one time, especially, a young player --KARRIE WEBB: I was in high school when I was Brooke Henderson.Q. A little bit older, but this tour is skewing younger, clearly, for a number of factors.  How rewarding is it for you to be able to be in the fray and win tournaments out here at your age?KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, I try.  I mean, I have to answer these questions, so it makes me think about my age.  I really don't think about that someone is 18, or that I am 40 -- I'll say it. But I don't really think about that.  You know, it's fun to watch the young kids play because I know I used to be that fearless, and that's probably the only thing I wish I had.  Because obviously as you get older and through experience, and it doesn't matter what we're doing, we all lose that little bit of fearlessness that we have when we were young.  But I think for me, the experience of knowing myself very well and what I need to do to play well is just as important.Q. Are you surprised at the number of low scores that we're seeing, given the quality of the course and being that it is a major, would you like it to maybe get a little bit more difficult as the week goes on?KARRIE WEBB: Well, it is only Thursday.  I don't necessarily think you'll see scores like that every day.  It all depends.  I mean, it really dried up this afternoon from when we practiced the last few days.  The greens were holding really nicely. We really had to think about it coming in on our last nine holes because the balls were really releasing.  And if we don't get any more rain, that's going to make it that much more challenging as the weekend goes on. It's always hard when you have not played a venue to know exactly how it's going to play.  I think now that we've shown that we handled the way it was set up today, I'm sure as the week goes on, it's going to be a little bit more challenging every day.Q. Since winning the Kraft in 2006, you've been very close.  Do you think if you keep knocking on the door, you can get another one?KARRIE WEBB: I hope so.  That's why I'm still out here.  If I didn't think that I could, I wouldn't even be trying.  But I definitely think my game is as good as it's ever been.  It's just a matter of getting out of my own way and allowing that to happen.  I did that for the most part today, which that's probably what I'm most proud of.Q. Sorry if you answered this already.  You birdied three of the first four holes.  What was working right for you?KARRIE WEBB: Well, I hit a wedge to about a foot and a half on the first, or on 10.  That settled me in. I actually made a really good par on 11.  I missed the fairway and was in the front right green-side bunker and hit a really nice bunker shot to a tap in. . Hit the green in two on 12 and had about a 15- footer for eagle.  I really put some very solid swings on it early on, and for me to see that I was backing myself like that; and then, you know, making a nice putt on 13 just really settled me in.  From there, I was able to continue to back myself for the rest of the round.Q. You were bogey-free until 7.  What transpired?KARRIE WEBB: It's probably the only bad swing I put on it today actually.  I missed the fairway left and didn't have an easy shot.  It's probably the hardest pin location on 7 where it was today.  And I hit it in the front bunker and didn't get it up-and-down.KELLY SCHULTZ: Thank you very much and best of luck the rest of the week.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT