VOLUNTEERS OF AMERICA NORTH TEXAS SHOOTOUT PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 2, 2015
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Was it a pretty fun, adventurous round?
KARRIE WEBB:   Just two bogeys.   14 has gotten me every day, so I have trouble off the tee there.   But other than that, just the second bogey on the 2nd was just a full wedge and buried in the front bunker.   Other than that, I played a really clean round and hit a lot of really good iron shots today and made some good putts.

Q.   You were 3‑under on the par‑3s.   That's very nice.   Is that just ball‑striking?
KARRIE WEBB:   Yeah, I had‑‑ I'm trying to think, yeah, two relatively short birdie putts on the par‑3s, and then I made a nice one on the 6th for birdie there.   But good iron shots into all of the par‑3s today. 

Q.   Were the conditions different today?   It seems windy. 
KARRIE WEBB:   Well, a little bit windier, yeah.   I think I got through probably nine holes before we had to worry too much about the wind.   But it's a little bit out of a different direction, and the course is drying up a little bit.   Probably for me, I haven't played here before, so I know that it's been pretty fast in the past.   You know, it's starting to dry out, and with the wind, you've got to be careful around 14, 15.

Q.   You've been in this position many times going into the final round.   How has your mindset changed over the years?
KARRIE WEBB:   Oh, I don't know.   I still have my ups and downs emotionally.   Starting out yesterday I might not have even been here today.   I had to have a good round yesterday to play today, so I was just looking to build on that round today.   I was 5‑under through 12 yesterday and gave a couple back coming in. 
You know, just wanted to build on that good stuff that I had done early on yesterday, and I did that today.

Q.   When you see all the young kids doing so well out here, what does it do for some of the veterans like yourself like you and Juli?
KARRIE WEBB:   I was going to say I was a rookie and she was a veteran.   I'm just glad she's up there, as well, because then I feel like a youngster.

Q.   Does it give you any motivation to see her up there?
KARRIE WEBB:   Yeah, she's been playing great.   She played well at ANA and then good first round last week and finished with a good tournament there and then well again this week, so she's obviously playing well.   You don't have to question her work ethic.   She loves to practice, so I don't think she ever finds that a grind.

Q.   A couple wins last season; still a lot left in the tank for you?
KARRIE WEBB:   I hope so.   I've worked really hard the last 12 months, made a few changes in my swing, and really the last couple weeks, it's really sticking and that's good to feel and good to be able to hit shots that I want to hit out on the golf course.

Q.   What's left for you in your career? 
KARRIE WEBB:   Well, playing rounds like that is fun.   I would have told you on Thursday that I wasn't a big fan of golf at the time.   Now two days later everything feels good. 
But you know, obviously we've got the Olympics next year, and I think that's really keeping me out here, keeping me working hard, and that's something that at the start of my career I never envisioned being a part of, of the Olympics.   I'd like to make the Australian team and then we'll see what happens after that.

Q.   How has your game evolved from your rookie season until now?
KARRIE WEBB:   I think I'm‑‑ when I allow myself to be, I think I'm a more complete player, but I just don't have that 21‑year‑old mindset.   If you could bottle the young mindset up and have what I know and how I play the game, it would be a pretty good package.

Q.   Talk about the way the course plays.   Obviously there's some good scores out there.   How does that set up for tomorrow?
KARRIE WEBB:   Well, we'll just see where everything ends.   I think if this wind keeps up, the back nine will play tricky, and hopefully I'm not too many shots behind, but you never know. 

Q.   So you won't play 15 more years like Juli?
KARRIE WEBB:   No.   You won't‑‑ I don't even think you'll see me out here playing.   If I am, can you just shoot me?   I don't want to be out here that long. 

Q.   It seems like over the last couple years these young kids are even more prepared than ever to win out here.   Why is that?   What have you seen from Lydia and Brooke that makes them that way?
KARRIE WEBB:   I think kids pick one sport at a really young age now.   I played a bunch of sports and then chose in my teenage years that I was good at golf and I loved golf, so I chose to focus on one sport.   I think early on kids‑‑ and maybe it's just financially too difficult for parents to do more than one sport, and so they stick to one thing.   You know, coaching and technology and all of that, equipment, is so much better.   You know, so I think if kids get off to that right start with correct coaching, they can develop‑‑ especially girls can develop at a much younger age.

Q.   How do you think you would have handled the weekend lead at 17?
KARRIE WEBB:   I was still in high school at 17, so I probably‑‑ I don't know.   I wasn't ready to be on the LPGA at 17.   You know, it is amazing to see these young kids playing as well as they do and handling themselves so well.

Q.   Your rookie year you were how old?
KARRIE WEBB:   21.   I was the youngest on Tour.

Q.   And you had a real dominant stretch there at the very beginning of that season. 
KARRIE WEBB:   Well, I won the Money List that year, so yeah, I had four wins over the rest of the year. 

Q.   Juli says there's no way she's going to be a playing Solheim Cup captain.   If she wins this week, do you believe her?
KARRIE WEBB:   I don't know actually.   She loves the Solheim Cup so much, I wouldn't put it past her. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT