KIA CLASSIC
March 26, 2015
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   All right.   A very strong finish with a birdie on the last?
KARRI WEBB:   Last two, yeah.

Q.   Pleased with the position, obviously?
KARRI WEBB:   Yeah.   Played really solid today, bogey free, so first time this year, I think, so that's nice.

Q.   What about management of this course?   Everyone says it's just a tough course in general. 
KARRI WEBB:   Yeah.   I think it's a course you gotta be pretty patient on.   I think the greens actually are putting the nicest they have out of the three years that we've been here, which is helpful.   But you know, they're pretty slopey greens, so you have to leave yourself better, easier putts if you're going to make a lot out here.
You know, pin high sometimes is not even a good option.   There's lots of break on them.

Q.   Do you feel like now in year three of this, that you are year three getting an understanding of the golf course a lot better and kind of managing it?
KARRI WEBB:   Yeah, I think so.   I've played okay here, actually.   So I've managed my game pretty well here in the past.   I think the course is probably in the best shape it's been in the three years, you know, so I've enjoyed the challenge of trying to keep my patience and play smart.

Q.   Do you remember how close you were going into the Back 9?   It was last year, wasn't it?
KARRI WEBB:   No, not last year.   I didn't play well on Sunday last year.   I had a chance on Sunday, but didn't play well.   Two years ago I was in the last group on Sunday, but I didn't finish well.   I think I finished sixth or something, but yeah, didn't play the Back 9 particularly well.

Q.   You had an up‑and‑down today, I guess at 15 out of that bunker.   And that kind of at that point I think gave you a little momentum, six, seven feet, it wasn't an easy putt. 
KARRI WEBB:   Yeah.   That's sort of the things I haven't been doing enough of is making those momentum par saves and keeping my round going.

Q.   What were the putts today?   Any real long ones?
KARRI WEBB:   No.   I'd say the longest one was on 13, which was probably 10, 12 feet.

Q.   Anything in particular you've worked on in the off season?
KARRI WEBB:   Well, I changed coaches in beginning of May last year, so it was more just cementing those changes in the off season, so I didn't have to think too much about them on the golf course.   There's still times where I have to think a little bit about them, but for the most part it's sticking, which is good.

Q.   Changes can be scary sometimes.   Was it fairly comfortable for you?
KARRI WEBB:   Yeah, it wasn't an easy decision to make at this stage in my career to change coaches, and I didn't want something to take a long time, and it took a little longer that I would have liked because I didn't think the changes were that significant, but they apparently were, on the golf course.   My body and my mind didn't want to allow that to happen on the course.

Q.   Did you make changes with your putting stroke at all?   Everything today was even close or your second putts were tap‑in distance?
KARRI WEBB:   Yeah, I didn't have a long putts today.   I only had a few long putts.   No, I've been working hard on my putter and habits changed.

Q.   I know you've been talking about the Olympics.   Tell me how meaningful is it to you at this point in your career and how much is that the source of motivation for you?
KARRI WEBB:   Yeah, it really is a long‑term goal.   I try not to get too caught up in it at the moment because it's still 15 or so months away, and I've gotta concentrate on now and play well now to continue keeping my world ranking where it is.

Q.   Sure.   But is it, Karrie, as much a goal as anything right now?
KARRI WEBB:   Yeah, it's probably why I made a coach change.   You know, if I didn't have that long‑term goal, I don't know if I'd be playing full time right now.   So that's keeping me out here.

Q.   I know next week's very special to you.   What does this week mean in terms of preparation and getting ready for not only next week, but the major season in general?
KARRI WEBB:   Yeah, it means a lot.   I actually probably for the first time in my career, my results haven't reflected how I feel like I'm playing.   If I'd have had these results in the past, I would have told you I was playing like crap. 
You know, and my coach in the past would have said, you're really close, and I wouldn't have believed him, but actually I'm using that word myself, because I've felt a lot closer than the results I've been putting out.

Q.   Do you tend to savor the results a little bit more now and I'm not implying that you're old, but I mean at this point you're closer to the end of the career than the beginning, so savoring something like this is something you think more about than you would have earlier?
KARRI WEBB:   Yeah, but I'm still driven to have results.   Even though I tell you that I'm closer than the results, it's still frustrating to have those results, because you know, really, it's‑‑ you know, it's silly, but I was in decent position after two rounds last week and had three three‑putts on Saturday and you just can't give away shots like that, and that's the sort of stuff I've been doing.   So that's why it's nice to play a solid round today and make no silly mistakes, and the greens I missed I got up‑and‑down.

Q.   Do you think about the fact that these kids are 17 and 19?   Does it matter when you're out there with them?
KARRI WEBB:   It doesn't, and you know, I was probably‑‑ I mean this is kind of irrelevant, but you know, in our group, you know, I feel like I'm the same age as everybody.   I don't walk any slower; I don't hit the ball any shorter for the most part.   Some girls are bombing it past me now.   But I don't feel like what I used to think 40 was. 

Q.   What's the fitness regimen these days?   What are you doing?
KARRI WEBB:   Well, I do a lot more on off weeks, but you know, I've done pilates for the last five years and then I've worked with the same trainer since 1998.   So we've just gradually changed that workout program to suit what I need to get done. 
But you know, for me it's always been about flexibility and avoiding injury rather than being the strongest or the fittest out here.   You know, it's knowing what I need to do to play good golf.

Q.   How are the allergies these days?
KARRI WEBB:   A little better, but still there.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT