THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 14, 2014
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Describe the emotions. 
KARRIE WEBB:   I don't know what hit me actually.   Two pretty good swings.   Just didn't get that 4‑iron to cut in there. 
But just probably a rush of adrenaline I think with the belly wedge.   The putt was obviously a lot faster than I thought, too.
Then just hit a very poor putt after knowing I had to make it for a playoff.

Q.   You've made some clutch putts.   You played like the veteran that you are.   You got to take some pride in that?
KARRIE WEBB:   Yeah, you know, I swung it really well today under pressure.   I hit a lot of shots that, you know, you stand behind the ball and you picture, and I did that. 
I hit every green from the second hole until there.   Obviously disappointing, but I gave myself a chance. 

Q.   You've seen a lot of golf.   How impressive was the shot Hyo Joo hit in there, and to be able to do that as a 19‑year old in a major championship?
KARRIE WEBB:   Yeah, the shot was really impressive.   I let the foot off the pedal a little bit, which probably let her have a little bit more of a free putt at it.   But she still had to make it and she did. 
Impressive for a 19‑year old.   The putt's probably 19‑year old nerves, but the shot is definitely very mature.   She played great today.
I said to Mikey, I made‑‑ both made birdies on 11, and I said, I'm going to have to make birdies to catch her.   She's not going to let me in. 
She played very well today.

Q.   Throughout your career you've been able to keep the pedal on in majors and doing so well.   I know it's not a victory, but being able to perform like this and be in the hunt again, what has this year done for you?   Two wins and now a really great chance at a major. 
KARRIE WEBB:   It's been an up‑and‑down year.   Obviously got the two wins early but decided to make some changes.   You know, I'm excited for next year, end of this year and next year.
I hit shots today that I don't think I've ever been able to hit, so I'm really excited about that.   Obviously wasn't meant to be.   I believe in fate a little bit, and I wasn't meant to win.

Q.   You played some great golf and some clutch putts out there today, particularly on 17. 
KARRIE WEBB:   Yeah, 17 was a good putt; 16 was a good second putt.   You know, I hit lots of good putts this week.   Probably the one on the last was the poorest putt I hit all week.
It's always tough when you know you got to make it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT