CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 23, 2014
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Considering where the pins were, you have to be pretty happy with that?  
KARRIE WEBB:   Yeah.   We've got pretty benign conditions, not a lot of breeze.   The greens are still pretty soft.   I just‑‑ I hit my irons really well today.   I only missed really a couple of greens where I had to hit out of a bunker.   The rest I had the putter in my hand.   
It feels like a simpler day when you're hitting greens and hitting it close and giving yourself lots of birdie chances.  
   
 Q.   Were the greens pretty much the same as yesterday?  
KARRIE WEBB:   Yeah, pretty much the same.   I guess just a little bit less traffic on them, because it's made the cut and I was out early but the course is still playing nicely.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you put yourself in a good spot to be in contention?  
KARRIE WEBB:   I don't know if you'd call it contention, but in there with a chance to have a decent finish anyway.  
   
 Q.   When you look at being back, who knows, 6 or 7 back, somebody has to come back.   Do you just go out and try and put numbers up and see what happens from there?  
KARRIE WEBB:   Yeah.   I've been working on a few things in my game, so I haven't had the results over the last couple of months that I would like.   Just working towards a good finish.   
67 is the best score I've shot for a while.   So to feel that comfortable out there and to play bogey‑free is a positive, and hopefully I can shoot another good score tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel the changes are kicking in?  
KARRIE WEBB:   Yeah, they're starting to kick in, yes.   Taking a while for my stubborn body to replicate it on the golf course, but it's getting there.  
   
 Q.   You won your first major when 20, I believe?   19 or 20?   
KARRIE WEBB:   No.   I won my fist major when ‑‑ it was in 1990, here in Canada.   So I was 24.  
   
 Q.   When you see so many women who are 14, 15, 16 years old being so successful in the women's game and not in the men's game, do you have any theories on why it's easier to get to that peak level maybe earlier in life or earlier in career?   
KARRIE WEBB:   I'm not sure of the exact answers, because I wasn't ready to compete at that level or this level at 16 and 17.   
But I think it's just common throughout all sports and just life in general that women mature a little bit quickerthan ‑‑ women's bodies mature quicker as well and minds, I guess, too, are a little bit more mature than guys of the same age.   You know, I think guys' bodies probably start to mature in their 20s and getting close to their 30s, where they've reached their full growing potential.  
   
 Q.   And they can't hit it 300 when they're 16 years old?  
KARRIE WEBB:   Well, some of them can, I think.   I think it's just basic ‑‑ I don't think there's any secrets to it.   You know, I think with golf in general, there's a lot more focus on good coaching and good equipment at an early age now.   You don't just go out there and smack it around and go and find it.   
If a kid shows any potential at a young age, they've got a coach and fitness person and they have their clubs specially built for them.   My first clubs were adult clubs cut down, so they are too stiff and too heavy.   Now there's special kids clubs, which allow them not to have swing faults when they first start because the clubs are fitted to them.  
   
 Q.   Did you still play a lot of sports when you were a teenager?  
KARRIE WEBB:   Yeah.   I think that's a difference too is that I played ‑‑ I mean, a played a lot of sports and did a lot of other activities, whereas I think kids are maybe ‑‑ it wouldn't be just North America, but the North American system really wants kids to focus on one sport so that they get to college.   It seems like kids are doing that a lot younger.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT