KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY GEICO
May 18, 2018
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Good bogey-free round today for you.  
KARRIE WEBB: Yep.   
 Q.  How are you feeling about your game this week?  
KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, it's good.  It's pretty close.  I mean, feel like I managed my game really well the last two days.   
Today I don't know if I can say I left a few out there or not.  I wasn't super close.  Probably just missed one real makable one on 17.   
Hit a lot of good 15, 20-footers that had a chance and then just didn't go in.   
You know, it's only my third tournament of the year, so pretty happy.   
 Q.  Right.  So what else have you been doing with your time this year?  
KARRIE WEBB: Well, I spent two and a half months in Australia, so just enjoying being home for a change.  Haven't spent that much time consecutively for 23 years.   
Just enjoyed that.  Spent a lot of time with my family and friends.   
 Q.  What's it like to have that much time off and then jump back into competition?  
KARRIE WEBB: It went really quickly actually, especially the last month.  It came up really quick.   
No, obviously my mindset all year had been to have this schedule, so it's nice to be back and be fresh and wanting to be out here and playing.  I'm enjoying it.   
 Q.  How long have you and Pete been...  
KARRIE WEBB: Oh, this is just the second week.   
 Q.  How has he been helping you out here?  
KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, I mean, he's obviously got a good record; worked for some good players.  He's a very good caddie.   
I mean, we played Dallas was our first week which is a challenging course for it to be or first week and we did a good job.   
This week has been a little bit easier for me because I've played here many times.  He's going a great job.   
 Q.  Yeah, obviously easier to come back to a place you've played well before.  
KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, definitely.  You know, wasn't as much stress trying to learn a new course like it was in Dallas.   
 Q.  You like doing anything in particular in this area?  
KARRIE WEBB: Lots of good restaurants.  I used to -- haven't done it for a few years -- but I used to fish the lakes on the golf course in the evenings.  The weather has been so iffy last few years it hasn't really given us a chance to do that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT