U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 20, 2014
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. (No Microphone.)KARRIE WEBB: Pretty up-and-down today.  Definitely not as solid as yesterday.  Just didn't hit enough quality iron shots to really give myself enough chances out there.
Q. You played enough of these.  Where do you strike the balance between frustration and trying to hang in there?KARRIE WEBB: Well, I was pretty good today.  I made the turn at 3-over for the round and then bogeyed the first.  So things were getting a little out of control there, but I did settle down and just bogeyed the last, which was very disappointing after gathering myself and making a couple of birdies there. But it's just a tough, long day.
Q. What's this weekend going to be about mostly?KARRIE WEBB: For me it's just trusting myself.  I think that seeing the ball so far early on today.  And it's just hard to compute in my head that I can hit the numbers that the clubs that we were pulling.  So my swing got a little out of sequence.  So then I was just sort of fighting myself with my swing for the rest of the day.
Q. Are you talking about how far it's going or how far it's flying?KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, how far it's flying.
Q. Can you give us an example of a number that kind of blew your mind?KARRIE WEBB: Well they're not off the planet out of the realm, but about five weeks ago I was hitting it a club short of normal numbers, so now I'm a club longer than normal numbers.  So it's a little bit to do with the heat, but I've also been swinging it quite nicely and so the ball's going further.  So it's just -- for half a year I've been struggling with my numbers and they have been short and now they're long, so it's a 15 to 18 yard difference in a month.
Q. What are you expecting out of the course tomorrow and the next day?KARRIE WEBB: Well, they set it up a little longer today.  I expect them to move tees around.  It's still set up fairly.  I think this afternoon the greens firmed up a little bit, but it's still playable. Lexie played great today.  She shot 2-under.  I think it's very doable out there. For me, it's really not -- I don't think I need to press.  I think the course is going to play tough this weekend and if I can just believe in myself a little bit more and hit some more quality iron shots, give myself chances and not rely so much on getting up-and-down, then I think that I've still got a pretty good shot.
Q. What I'm getting at is we have seen U.S. Opens like this where the scoring's tough where you get to the weekend and everyone's pretty much backing up.  This almost seems like it's playing, like its playability is similar.  It could be similar all four days.KARRIE WEBB: It could be.  Well I don't know if that's the USGA's goal, but it could play pretty similar every day where if you play really well, you can shoot under par and gain some ground.  So I don't think -- when you think seven shots, you think that's a lot, but really at the U.S. Open I really don't think that's too far out.  But I've got to play well this weekend.  I've got to eliminate some of the mistakes I've made.  Some soft bogeys.  I mean I've made some tough pars on the hard holes and made some really soft bogeys, which I have to eliminate.
Q. Have you seen enough of Michelle Wie's game this year to sort of have an evaluation?  She obviously played well at the Kraft and has played well this year?KARRIE WEBB: I haven't played with her in probably the last month or.  But I did play a little bit at the beginning of the year and she's really got her swing under control.  She doesn't hit driver much, but she's really playing to her strengths. And her putting -- I mean as highly criticized as it's been, I think her putting has really come along.  I think it's something that she can actually trust now.
Q. Playing 36 holes with Lexie, where on this golf course do you feel length gives you an advantage?KARRIE WEBB: Well, this is the second Major of the year where it doesn't really matter if you hit the fairway if you're Lexie Thompson.  Kraft we didn't have any rough and so Lexie could hit driver all day and if she hit it in the rough she could still get it on the green.  And for two days I've seen that, too. I don't need to hit it in that junk, because I'm not strong enough, I don't get the velocity on the ball to get it up in the air to really control it.  But Lexie's played some unbelievably good shots out of that stuff.  So it's really not a penalty for her.
Q. You still got three shots to make up on Minjee Lee?KARRIE WEBB: Yep, another Aussie flying the flag.  So that's good.  She's a great little player.  If you ask her, she probably told you that she's not playing well. (Laughter.)




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT