JTBC FOUNDERS CUP
March 23, 2014
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Fantastic round today, Karrie.   What really was the key to your round today?  
KARRIE WEBB:   A bit of everything really.   I definitely putted probably the best I have all week.   I don't feel like I putted all that great the first few rounds.   
Worked on a few things last night, so I really got the ball rolling on the back nine.   I stood on the tenth tee and I was like what's it going to take to get to 20 under.   So I had to shoot 29.   And I shot 30.   I'd say that I'll come up a little bit short, but I gave it a go.  
   
 Q.   I think you'll be pretty close.   You have the lead right now.   What will you do with these next few minutes?   Will you go and have a bite to eat or will you just watch TV?   How will you spend this time watching the others play, or will you watch?  
KARRIE WEBB:   Well, I think it's going to be a while because we were going down 18 and the leaders were on 10 green.   So I don't know.   It's going to be quite a while.   So I'm sure I'll have to hit some balls at some point if it looks like there could be a playoff.  
   
 Q.   Karrie, we talked how much this event means to you.   How much does that kind of play in when you're going into a final round?   Do you think about like what this event means?   Does it spur you on a little bit more?  
KARRIE WEBB:   I guess so.   I just love the feeling of this event.   I love we have the Founders here, and obviously Renee and Kathy this week.   And I spoke‑‑ Louise called me on Friday night and told me I needed to shoot 64 yesterday, which I didn't do for her, but I shot 63 today, one better.   So hopefully that's good enough.  
   
 Q.   You have a pretty good friendship with Louise.   What's that like when she reaches out to you and what's it mean to you?  
KARRIE WEBB:   Oh, it's meant a lot that I've had such a great relationship with her.   You know, generations to come aren't going to be as lucky as we are that have been around when the Founders have still been alive.   So Louise, you know, she's a character and she's got great stories, and you know, she's always leaving me voice mail messages, even when I'm overseas.   I come home and on my home phone there will be a message from her.  
So you know, it's been fun to get to know Louise over the years and for us to call each other friends.  
   
 Q.   I know it's not over and you're waiting, but did you wake up this morning thinking you had a chance to win or is that not the way you approach a Sunday like this?  
KARRIE WEBB:   Yeah.   I mean I think you think you have an outside chance, but there's so many, you know, 18 people ahead of me, so anyone can go out and shoot what I shot today.  
For me, this is the last day that Ann Triggs (ph) was here, and you know, I just wanted to, you know, make some progression going into next week and then obviously into Kraft.   So that's what I was mainly thinking about today, get the putter back on track because that's been pretty good this year and was a bit of a surprise that it wasn't so good the first three days this week.  
   
 Q.   And I was walking over, so I didn't see how far the birdie was on the last.   
KARRIE WEBB:   It was about 20 feet.  
   
 Q.   And just you're waiting.   Lydia Ko is part of this.   What are your thoughts on her and being in the mix on a nerve‑wracking Sunday like this?  
KARRIE WEBB:   Yeah.   You know, I don't know.   I still can't imagine at 16 being able to do what she does.   So you know, it's been an incredible start to her hopefully very long career.   And you know, like I said, I'd say someone will get to 20.   I mean there's plenty of accessible pin positions on the back nine.   But we'll wait and see.   I gave it my best shot today.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT