JTBC FOUNDERS CUP
March 20, 2014
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Just give me the ins and outs. 
KARRIE WEBB:   I believe‑‑ I haven't thought about it too much, but I think I didn't miss a fairway or a green.

Q.   I didn't think you did either.   I was about to look that up. 
KARRIE WEBB:   Yeah.   It's a lot easier to play golf when you're hitting every fairway and every green.   So felt like I actually left a few out there.   Didn't putt as well as I have been putting.
I thought the greens actually slowed down this afternoon, just probably, you know, after today's growth, but definitely not as fast as they were this morning.

Q.   Yeah, everybody said they were pretty skit ish, I think.   Coming into it was that something you expected?
KARRIE WEBB:   Well, they were faster in the lead up to today than they've been ever, the three years that we've been here. 
And then this afternoon they slowed down a little bit, but I expect them to be fast again tomorrow morning.

Q.   Anything course wise that stood out to you?   Anything on the course?
KARRIE WEBB:   No.   I mean with these weather conditions it's like playing in a bubble, I think.   Maybe one or two yards of breeze.

Q.   I'll take it.   Low numbers, obviously the leaderboard is pretty stacked.   Anything going into the next three rounds that you think?
KARRIE WEBB:   Well, if the conditions stay like this, you're just going to have to hit it well and make putts.

Q.   Yeah.   I think it'll be a shoot‑‑ I think 20 something won?
KARRIE WEBB:   Won last year.

Q.   Anything in particular you think that's super important out here?
KARRIE WEBB:   No.   I mean if I can continue hitting fairways and greens and get back to putting it the way I have to start the year I should be in good shape.

Q.   Anything in particular on the putting that didn't click?
KARRIE WEBB:   No.   I gotta go and sort it out.   Just not hitting my lines.   So something is off.

Q.   Just reading off or something?
KARRIE WEBB:   Yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT