ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
July 30, 2017
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What happened on 17?
KARRIE WEBB: I bent down, picked my tee up -- thought I hit a perfect drive there.  When I stood up, I went to tell Johnny that I absolutely knotted my 3-wood exactly how I wanted and he said it kicked into the bunker.  I have no idea how it did that.
Q. Impossible position from there.
KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, still would have been nice to make a bogey there, though.
Q. And you were on such a high after the chip-in, as well.
KARRIE WEBB: Yeah.
Q. Obviously the emotions just now, obviously gutted.
KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, very gutted.  Obviously like you said, I was on a high, making the eagle, and then I had a very nice up-and-down on the next.  Obviously there were nerves there, but there was a good calmness there.
Even on 17 tee, I hit -- like I said, the exact tee shot I wanted to get it down around those bunkers, and I'm not quite sure what happened to it, how it ended up where it did.
But even the last two, decent swings.  I just had an in-between number unfortunately.  I would have liked to have just hit a hard 8-iron but I couldn't count on it carrying that front.  But no leaderboard on the last, so I didn't know I had to make that.
Q. You didn't?
KARRIE WEBB: Well, there was no leaderboard.  So I don't know how anyone would know.  I just assumed when I made my putt that it wasn't a huge cheer, so I assumed it wasn't to tie.  So yeah, it's pretty bad to not have a leaderboard on the last.  WELL, that's the first time I've ever been -- that hasn't had a leaderboard on 18.
Q. Do you remember the last time you had to come backwards out of a bunker?
KARRIE WEBB: Probably the last time I played links golf.
Q. Did you think coming down the 18th, did you know you needed to eagle?
KARRIE WEBB: No, we didn't know if Mi Hyang had birdied or not, because there wasn't like a loud cheer like she had.
Q. She thought she needed to eagle the last to get a playoff?
KARRIE WEBB: That tells you how many leaderboards are out there.
Q. Affects your strategy --
KARRIE WEBB: Well, my bunker shot, I said to Johnny, "I don't know if I need to hole this or get it up-and-down."  Imagine if you went for it and overplayed it and you only had to get it up-and-down.
You know, I was trying to make it but also not being overly aggressive.
Q. Obviously going into next week, you take some positives from your performance over the four days?
KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, I played really well.  I drove the ball great and hit my irons really well, and the creative shots I played really nicely and actually trusted my feel and creativity rather than being so technical about it.
So I felt really good about how I played this week and I actually felt good about how calm I was today, considering it's been a while since I've been in contention.  Hopefully that bodes well for next week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT