HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
February 28, 2014
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MEGHAN FLANAGAN:   You had some up‑and‑downs on the front but on the back, a little faltery.  
KARRIE WEBB:   Yeah, a few loose swings on the back nine today which didn't happen yesterday but recovered pretty well from them, only two bogeys and to shoot 3‑under, I think I'm pretty happy with that.   Anything on the 60s on this golf course is a good day.   
MEGHAN FLANAGAN:   What about the wind, I think people said it was a little windy on some holes, a little less on others?     
KARRIE WEBB:   I felt like it played pretty similar to yesterday.   I think the wind cornered a little differently than yesterday, so it's trusting the direction it was coming out of.  
MEGHAN FLANAGAN:   What about 13, was that a downer on the back nine?   
KARRIE WEBB:   13 was a pretty soft bogey there, just missed the green there and really wasn't a difficult up‑and‑down and didn't get it up‑and‑down there.   Made a good up‑and‑down on the next for par, and then I hit it in the water off the tee on 15, so actually made a really good bogey in the end.   
   
 Q.   Is there something you like about playing in Singapore, having won here before?   
KARRIE WEBB:   Yeah, well, I think‑‑ I don't know, I have played well here before, obviously not here at Sentosa but I just enjoy coming to Singapore I think, so when you feel good about a place generally more often than not, it translates into good golf.   
So I feel a lot more comfortable on this golf course than I did last year, and I think for me, it just took playing it a few times to understand where you can hit it and where you can miss it.   
   
 Q.   Do you think your experience helped you out today, given how Caroline finished, it seemed like her game sort of got a way from her.   You were able to recover after making a couple small mistakes.   Is that experience?  
KARRIE WEBB:   I guess maybe a little bit.   Some days you handle it better than others.   Today I think it's‑‑ you know, when we play these events and you get re‑paired on score after the first round, being in the last group, it feels like it's the last day of the tournament, and it's not, and you've got to remind yourself that if you do make a mistake, it's only Friday.   
It's not the end of the world, and you know, that's pretty much what I was saying to myself through that three‑hole stretch there where things were not going great, and you know, I got back on track on 16.   I hit really two good shots there, and made a good par and a really good iron shot on 17.   
   
 Q.   You have plenty of experience leading the way; can you talk about being chased by Angela and does the weekend setup nicely for you?  
KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, well, two old ducks I guess.   Would you ask any of the young players if it's hard to play against girls in their 30s, because you always ask me the opposite question.   
No, Angela is obviously, I think her last win was here in Singapore, so she obviously feels good about playing here and I enjoy playing with her so it should be a good pairing tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   You talked yesterday about how you still work hard but it's a different kind of working hard from 20 years ago when you started out.   How has it changed your preparation change now?   
KARRIE WEBB:   When I was younger, I still believe that‑‑ I grew up in an era of golf where fitness wasn't a part of the game.   Some people who did it, some people who didn't, and the people who didn't, got away with not working out.   
Now, it's definitely a part of the game and all of these young players coming up are athletes from when they decide that they are pretty good at golf and want to focus on becoming good and working at it, training is a part of golf.   For me, I've had to learn to get in the gym and do the work required, and for me, it's more about‑‑ at my age, maintaining my body and trying to be as injury‑free as possible.   
So I probably don't spend the hours on the range that I used to but I work out and I have a traveling osteopath that travels to every event which I think is a necessity for me at the moment.   
You know, just there's different areas that I work on, where I put my body‑‑ I've had to mentally convince myself.   I always thought that if you put in the hours practicing, then everything will take care of itself and I always saw working out as not part of practice.   
So I've had to mentally get over the fact that I don't have to be on the range for three hours; I can spend an hour on the range and an hour in the gym and that's okay.   But it's been hard convincing myself of that.   
MEGHAN FLANAGAN:     Did you hire a trainer in Florida or Australia?   How did you get started?   
KARRIE WEBB:   I worked with a trainer for about 15 years and he's been really good because he knows my dislike for working out.   So my workouts have just gradually increased.   
So it wasn't hard core to start with where I had never done it, so he understands where I'm coming from.   And in the last four years I've added Pilates, as well, and it's something I enjoy doing, so you don't have to force me go and do that.  
MEGHAN FLANAGAN:     What's your trainer's name and where is he based?   
KARRIE WEBB:   He's in Boca Raton Florida, Chris Banah (ph).  
   
 Q.   Do you feel that there are enough Australian players coming through the Tour ready to take over for you in the future?   
KARRIE WEBB:   Yeah, you know, it's an interesting question.   I think we've definitely got a great group of young players coming through.   It's just a matter of them‑‑ sometimes you need a little bit of luck or finish well in a tournament at the right time and it gives you that confidence to kick on.   
Minjee Lee, she's an amateur but she won the Victorian Open last week in Australia and is the No. 1 ranked amateur in the world.   We have a couple of young girls that are 17 coming through that could have the potential to be good and there's still a bunch of girls on Tour that I think have potential.   It's just whether they realize that or not.   
   
 Q.   The osteopath and the trainer, are they the same person?   
KARRIE WEBB:   No.   I do work out with an osteopath on Tour, but he isn't with me on off‑weeks.  
   
 Q.   Is he concentrating on your back or neck or what?   
KARRIE WEBB:   On my whole body.   And I worked out with him on Tuesday, so maybe my legs are a bit sore, so he's been concentrating on making them less sore.  
   
 Q.   Could you elaborate on your trip to the water on 15?  
KARRIE WEBB:   I hit a snap hook off the tee and just short in three and got it up‑and‑down and nearly chipped in.   
   
 Q.   So arrived with a splash, did it?   
KARRIE WEBB:   No, it was out into the middle of the water.   
   
 Q.   So you have been in pretty amazing form in recent weeks, how high do you think you are going, Top‑10‑‑ No. 1?  
KARRIE WEBB:   I'm 7th currently.   I touched on this a little bit yesterday but you know, I'll just try and focus on playing good and wherever that takes me, it takes me.   I don't‑‑ like I said yesterday, you know, 15 years ago, I was going to do whatever it took to be No. 1, and I know I'm capable of doing that, but I don't‑‑ it's not something that I live and die for.   I'm still going to enjoy my life away from golf, and let the game maybe consume me as much as it did when I was younger.   
   
 Q.   Is that a healthy way to be in golf?   It helps you stay more grounded when you're on the course.   
KARRIE WEBB:   It is now for me.   I'd shoot some amazing things being completely and solely golf only, 10, 15 years ago, but I wouldn't‑‑ if I was that person now, I wouldn't even be playing.   I wouldn't enjoy it.   So you know, I enjoy my good golf way more than I used to, and I try not to carry that onto my life away from the golf course.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT