SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 11, 2012
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Great round, 6‑under.   By far your best round here. 
KARRIE WEBB:   Yes. 
THE MODERATOR:   Talk about coming into this week, anything in specific you wanted to improve on in handling this course. 
KARRIE WEBB:   Well, I wanted to improve from last year because I didn't play very well.   Just in a different frame of mind this time around.   I've just been back in Australia for two and a half weeks, visiting family and stuff. 
I think I came in with a bit more refreshed frame of mind.   I think last year I was quite tired at this time of the year.   The game didn't feel great, so I didn't have a very good attitude as to getting in there and playing well. 
Just a better attitude this year. 
THE MODERATOR:   Coming off a top five at the British.   You got to go back to Australia.   What were you working on, anything in particular?   You said you felt refreshed going into this last stretch.   Talk about going into this homestretch of the season. 
KARRIE WEBB:   Yeah, well, I took probably about 10 days off when I went home.   I was home for my mum's 60th birthday.   We had some fun for the first 10 days or so I was home, then I got back to work. 
It took a little bit because the last time I played was the British.   It was cold, rainy and windy.   I was in north Queensland where it was nice and warm.   I had to get out of all the bad habits of playing in the wind at the British. 
I worked with my coach who I grew up with from eight, I hit some balls with him, worked on just some basic stuff which got me out of all the bad windy swing habits from the British Open and got me feeling good about things. 
THE MODERATOR:   Rain from England to rain here.   You finished your last three holes after the rain delay.   What was in your mind? 
KARRIE WEBB:   I think sometimes it's hard to get back to being focused because you've been sitting around for three hours chatting with the girls and stuff. 
But I think you don't want to just try and just finish without making mistakes.   I think if you go into that mindset you tend to make mistakes.   I tried to feel like, Let's go and hit some quality shots and see if we can hit a couple shots coming in. 
THE MODERATOR:   We have a 17‑year‑old 5‑under, one stroke back.   As a veteran, are you surprised to see all these young players doing well? 
KARRIE WEBB:   Not surprised anymore.   I think with technology and coaching, it's so much more superior these days than when I was a young kid, I'm not surprised to see young kids ready to play.   Especially for girls.   I think it's harder for guys, because they're not mature.   15‑year‑old girls are not far from full size.   The only maturity they lack is away from the golf course.   They're still talking about the cartoons they've been watching (laughter).   Their golf games are very mature and ready to go. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions. 

Q.   Did you have a highlight of the round today? 
KARRIE WEBB:   Not in general.   I made a great up‑and‑down on the 1st.   That calmed me down.   I birdied the 2nd.   I settled in from there.   Six birdies, making no bogeys in my first week back, I'm very happy with that. 

Q.   When you come to Asia, rain delays are something you would expect to happen. 
KARRIE WEBB:   Yes. 

Q.   How do you prepare for that mentally? 
KARRIE WEBB:   I think this morning, as humid as it was, and the sun was out, I didn't think we'd get done without a delay.   So I think you just prepare that that is going to be the case. 
You'd like to play 72 holes straight without a delay.   I think that would be a miracle here if we actually achieved that. 
Hopefully the weather will be a little bit better and we'll get the storms after 3:00 in the afternoon and we won't have too many delays again. 

Q.   How important was it to come pack and par 16, birdie 17 in terms of your mindset?
KARRIE WEBB:   Well, I mean, anytime you pick up a birdie the last three holes, it's great.   It means that you're continuing your round, not just trying to get into the clubhouse. 
It's particularly a little bit more difficult when you've had that break.   But I think it's important to me that I didn't just try and finish the round.   I told myself, All right, let's see if we can get another one or two, not just finish the round off. 

Q.   Anything with your round you're particularly pleased about?
KARRIE WEBB:   I think having three weeks off, hitting a scratchy iron shot, then made a great putt on the 2nd for birdie.   It was a little bit shaky ball‑striking early on. 
I think the thing I was most proud about the round was that I just settled in.   I didn't try to force.   I knew I had been swinging it well, so I didn't want to try to force that to happen. 
Once I settled into the round, I started hitting some really quality shots. 

Q.   Ian Triggs has been down here.   What do you think he can impart to the young girls looking at idols like yourself?
KARRIE WEBB:   Well, Ian is just a fantastic guy.   He's obviously got a great knowledge of the golf swing and playing competitive golf.   He played professionally himself. 
He's just got a wonderful personality.   I think especially to teach young girls because he's a bit of a softy.   He's not too hard on the girls.   I think that goes a long way.   He's a very positive person. 
I think young teenage girls, getting positive feedback from a coach that has coached some of the best players in the world is a great thing for them. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks so much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT