RR DONNELLEY LPGA FOUNDERS CUP
March 17, 2012
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   First off, nice playing again today.   
KARRIE WEBB:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   Put yourself right up there, you're near the top of the leaderboard.   Are you pleased with the spot you're in heading into Sunday?  
KARRIE WEBB:   Yeah.   I would have liked to have been a little bit closer to the lead.   Had a very up‑and‑down Back 9.   Had a couple of three‑putts today, which is disappointing.   And you know, just up and down.   
Looked really good sometimes and pretty average other times, so I felt like I could have been a couple shots better and that would have given me a better chance tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Looking back at last year you were six shots out of the lead, I think, coming into Sunday?  
KARRIE WEBB:   Oh, is that right?   
   
 Q.   So you were able to come back from that.   Does that give you anything heading into tomorrow's round knowing what you were able to do last year?  
KARRIE WEBB:   I think so.   The weather is supposed to be pretty bad tomorrow, so we'll see how that goes.  
But you know, I think that sometimes works in your favor.   You don't have to shoot really, really low sometimes when it's ‑‑ when the weather is bad to make up a lot of ground.  
There's quite a few players in between me and the lead, so that's the only challenge.   I think last year there wasn't that many people between me and the lead with the six shots difference.   
So you know, I've got my work cut out for me, but we'll see what happens.  
   
 Q.   Knowing the weather conditions tomorrow, how much does that change things, like you said, where it kind of turns into almost anybody's tournament?  
KARRIE WEBB:   Yeah.   We haven't played this course being that cold, and if we get rain like they say, it'll just be a totally different golf course.   It won't be quite as short, but the greens will be softer, so we'll have to see.   
   
 Q.   Perfect.   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT