ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
July 28, 2017
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Usually a probably slightly disappointing score but in this, what do you feel?  
KARRIE WEBB: Well, disappointing, because I bogeyed the last two.  I fought really hard to be 1-over with two to go.  Just a couple of bad swings and a couple of bad tee shots, really, that made it difficult to hit the greens.   
Disappointed with that but obviously if you'd have told me before I teed off yesterday, that I would be 4-under, probably would have taken it.  Hopefully the wind will stay up this afternoon and I won't be too far behind starting tomorrow.   
 Q.  How was it going around?  Was it much different from yesterday with the wind?  Was it more blustery?  What was it?  
KARRIE WEBB: It was really cold this morning, and definitely a lot more -- the wind had a lot more strength to it.  Holes that we were hitting driver and wedge into, that wasn't even a possibility this morning.   
Definitely our first nine holes was definitely really difficult.  I mean, it never really let up.  Just as it warmed up, obviously you could hit the ball a little bit further.  But yeah, it was challenging right all the way till the end.   
It's only Friday night but a long way to go -- any time you have a chance to win, it's special.   
 Q.  You must be pleased given the conditions.  
KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, lunch isn't going to taste as good as it would have if I had parred the last two.  But like I said, if you had given me 4-under before I teed off yesterday, I would have taken it.   
 Q.  A bit difficult to maintain your patience and focus for 18 holes in this?  
KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, I think our two rounds total is over 11 hours of golf.  So you know, it's tough to maintain your focus and hit every shot good.   
I just didn't probably make as many putts as I did yesterday.  Like the putt on the last, I hit a very good putt there and it lipped-out.  That was a little disappointing but I definitely made my share yesterday.   
 Q.  How much has pace of play showed down from since when you started out here?  Has it gotten a lot worse in the last few years?  
KARRIE WEBB: Yes and no.  You know, these are challenging conditions.  We didn't have any spotters out there this morning, so you know, we hit it off the fairway and no one was up there to even help us out looking for a golf ball.  If you're looking three or four minutes every time for a golf ball, it's hard to keep pace of play.   
 Q.  And mentally, the challenge of these long rounds, it's difficult?  
KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, definitely.  I had a 4.30 wake-up call this morning, too.  A nap this afternoon will probably do me good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT