U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 8, 2011
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How did this round go for you? Take us through it. What do you think?  
 KARRIE WEBB: It went pretty well. I'm very happy with shooting 1-under. You know, I had a lot of momentum going yesterday afternoon when play was stopped, so I made a couple of birdies to get back to even par.   
 So that was disappointing, because I thought we might have gotten lucky and gotten done. It's hard to pick that momentum up. This morning I made a good two-putt on 7 and 8, and made a nice birdie on the 9th. It's nice.   
  
  Q. How do you pass the time today?  
 KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, I'd say it's almost more than likely we won't play today. They're calling for storms again, you know, but you've got to prepare that maybe you'll play one or two holes.  
 I'm gonna have some breakfast and practice a little bit this morning, because, you know, it could be 24 hours before a play again. I might do some practice anyway this morning.  
  
  Q. I if I could give you three more rounds of 70 right now, would you take it?  
 KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, I would.  
  
  Q. Do you think that would be good enough on this golf course?  
 KARRIE WEBB: I actually didn't -- I didn't have the foggiest idea what score would win this week - and I've never been very good at predicting it - but I would think that would put me with a good chance.  
 But, you know, I'm not trying to set any scores. I didn't try to do that through the first round, and I'm just happy to shoot 1-under.  
  
  Q. Good start this year. What's been working well? What's the best part of your game right now?  
 KARRIE WEBB: It's all been pretty solid. I think the biggest thing for me is the momentum putts and the momentum shots. Getting up-and-down at key situations has really -- you know, gives you positive momentum through your round, through your tournament, and through your year when you know you can count on doing that, you know, and bounce-back birdies and stuff like that.   
 It's nothing specific. It's just, you know, it's just golf. You know you're doing the right things at the right time; sometimes you don't. And you're not that far away, but your scores say you are.  
  
  Q. Given the fact you finished up so well, is this one of those things where you don't want to wait maybe 24 hours to play again, you want to get back on the course?   
 KARRIE WEBB: I don't think you really think about it. You just deal with the hand you're dealt and just prepare as best you can.   
  
  Q. That birdie on No. 9, was that just putting it on the right side of the hole and just setting yourself up well?  
 KARRIE WEBB: It was really hard to picture where the pin was, but I knew if I was short and right of the hole that I'd have an uphill putt. That's what I was looking for coming in there.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT