U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 8, 2011
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Were you happy with that finish?
 KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, very happy. It's always hard. I had some really good momentum going yesterday afternoon. I made a couple of birdies to get back to even. 
 You know, it was disappointing. We thought we were gonna get done. So, you know, it's hard to, you know, have that momentum first thing this morning. 
 But, you know, made a good two-putt on 7 and a good two-putt on 8. And to make that putt on 9 and to finish in red numbers for the first round, very happy.

 Q. How did you refocus yourself with just being in the middle of the fairway on No. 7?
 KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, I was on the green, so I was looking at a 35-, 40- foot putt down the hill.
 So it's not a nice way to sleep on, because you don't know how fast the greens are going to be the next morning. You know it when you're out there how it's gonna putt. 
 But, yeah, it's hard to come back, because when you've got things going, you don't want to do anything to stuff up the momentum you had yesterday. You try not to think that way, but, you know, even if I had made three pars coming in, I would have been happy with that, but making a birdie on the last was a nice bonus.

 Q. You're probably not gonna tee off tonight. 
 KARRIE WEBB: If we get any sort of delay we won't be teeing off.

 Q. How do you prepare for the possibility of 36 tomorrow?
 KARRIE WEBB: Well, I'm probably gonna do a little bit of practice now and then just be done for the rest of the day. I had quite a few early mornings in a row now, so just try and rest up. Because even if we don't play 36 tomorrow, it will be 27 and 27 on Sunday, so it will be a big weekend.

 Q. To be in red numbers out here, like you said, you have to feel good. 
 KARRIE WEBB: Yeah. It's my best first round at the U.S. Open for a lot of years. I can't even remember when, but I haven't shot under par at the U.S. Open the first round for a while. I'm happy with that.

 Q. Lastly, do you like the way you've been playing lately?
 KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, I started off really well. April and May we didn't have a lot of tournaments, so I kind of lost that momentum.
 But, you know, you never know at the U.S. Open. You can come in here feeling great and have really high expectation sand not do very well. I've done that many times. I just sort of came in here not really -- I couldn't work out what sort of score would win around here, especially because we didn't know what the weather conditions were gonna be and how the course would turn out.
 So going in, you know, not really expecting to shoot certain scores I think was good. And just, you know, taking it one shot at a time, which is a bit of a cliché, but really that's what you have got to do.

 Q. How do you think Cristie played?
 KARRIE WEBB: She had great momentum going into yesterday, and that's what can happen coming back. She was faced with a long bunker shot this morning, so, you know, if she'd have made par there, that would have been huge.
 So I think if I was in that position I would have been expecting to make bogey, and if I made par, I'd be fine. I'm sure she wasn't happy with the last couple holes.

 Q. Overall impressions on the golf course. 
 KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, it's played -- well, I think with the rain it's made it play a lot fairer than it could. I mean, the only, you know, the greens were getting quite firm Wednesday afternoon, so with that a little bit of rain it softened things up a little bit. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT