ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
July 27, 2017
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. That was quite an incredible round out there, 7-under, and what are your reflections?
KARRIE WEBB: You know, when we were warming up and our first few holes, obviously it was really cold and really windy.  I looked at the scoreboard and saw that Cristie Kerr shot 6-under, and I was like, what course did she play today.
Then I sort of really hung in there through the front nine and made a nice birdie on 9 to turn at 1-under, and then just really started swinging at it well and hitting it quite close and had some good birdie chances and made the most of them.
Q. You had that back nine, was quite something.  Was it just the confidence surging through you?
KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, I did start to hit some good shots, and I just kept telling myself to just keep going.  When you make a few birdies, not to just go into the mode of holding on.  I felt like I was swinging it pretty well and seeing the reads well and hitting solid putts.
I was just tell myself just to keep going and make as many birdies as I could.
Q. In conditions like this, does experience actually play more of a part than perhaps other tournaments where conditions are more betine?
KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, I think so.  I've enjoyed playing links golf for many years, and Johnny, my caddie, is Scottish, and we actually played Troon together yesterday.  He has a lot of experience playing links golf, so we worked really well together.
I think we got really lucky with the weather.  To have no rain this afternoon, I think is very lucky and I think the wind even died just a little bit.  Probably our last five or six holes.
Q. Is Johnny your regular caddie?
KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, he's caddied for me for a couple of years.
Q. His second name?
KARRIE WEBB: Scott.
Q. What was the pick of the birdies in that little run, five in a row, was it?
KARRIE WEBB: I didn't really have a lot of long putts to be honest with you.  On 11 I hit it to maybe two feet.
12 was about seven or eight feet.
13 was about four or five feet.
14 was a bit longer, six or seven.
I actually played a really good iron shot into 15.  I actually said to Johnny that, you know, when we played the practice round, we could use that bank on the right so that you didn't bring that bunker into play.
You know, I just hit the shot that I saw and it carried into that bank and came down to about eight feet.  That was a tricky read.  So to make that one and to keep it going was really nice.
Q. Yourself and Cristie, obviously both experienced.  What does that say about today and the challenge?
KARRIE WEBB: I liked the experience part, rather than old (laughter).  Yeah, I think so.  I think you can't get too far ahead of yourself on days like this, and links golf, you've really just got to hit the shot in front of you and not really get too far ahead of yourself.
I think if you get into a comfort zone -- and I drove the ball really well today.  If you do that, it really helps take the stress off trying it make pars from the long stuff.
Q. In terms of your form, I know you played pretty well at U.S. Open?
KARRIE WEBB: I played better than my result.
Q. Do you feel this has been coming?
KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, it's been a bit of an unusual year for me.  I haven't enjoyed how I've played much at all but I really did feel at the U.S. Open, I turned a corner a little bit.  Probably just more mentally than anything.  Just trusting the work that I've done and you know, just backing myself a little bit more.
And I actually played quite well at the U.S. Open.  I just didn't make the putts that I needed to.  But I didn't putt poorly.  I just either didn't read them well or my speed was off every now and then.
But yeah, I felt that I sort of turned a corner there, and I mean, these two weeks were the highlight of my year.  When I set my schedule, I was really excited to play in Scotland for two weeks.
Q. Are you working with the same person or anything specific?
KARRIE WEBB: Working with the same person.  Same stuff.  Sometimes you've just got to hear it a little differently.  You know, my iron game, really for most of this year, but a little bit of last year, hasn't been great.  I pride myself on being a good iron player.  I think that really took a toll on me mentally because that was always something I could trust.  I didn't really have to worry about that.
I really hit my irons probably the best I had for four rounds at the U.S. Open, so I think mentally that I got over that hump.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT