HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
February 26, 2011
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Nice finish sets you up well for tomorrow?
 KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, I feel pretty fortunate actually to be one behind. Chie missed a few putts coming in and it was nice to grab a birdie on the last.

 Q. You guys are several shots in front of the others and Chie was a couple in front of you; were you thinking there's still an opportunity?
 KARRIE WEBB: Oh, yeah, sure. There's a long day ahead tomorrow, so I was just trying to get in with as good of a score as I could and be as close as I could.

 Q. And I think you were 2-under today, right? So what were you thinking through there, not a huge number of opportunities, not a lot of birdies for nine out there?
 KARRIE WEBB: No, there wasn't. I played pretty solidly. I didn't make too many mistakes. I gave myself a few opportunities but not enough to have a really low round but enough to have 2-under. 
 I birdied the second. I holed about a 3-footer there. 
 Birdied the fifth, about a 20-footer. 
 Bogeyed the next one, 3-putted. 
 Then birdied 9, hit it on in two and 2-putted from about 60 feet I guess. 
 And then bogeyed 14, the par 3 and birdied the last. I hit an 8-iron in there to probably about 15 feet and made the putt. 

 Q. Given the fact that how well Chie was playing today, were you surprised she missed two short putts on 15 and 16 and made the bogey?
 KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, I was. She really could have separated herself from all of us. You know, I feel pretty fortunate to only be one shot behind, but I knew that I just had to keep plugging away and stay patient and you know, it's been a long day ahead tomorrow. 
 So you know, even if she had of gotten a couple ahead, she was the only one in front of me. So I just had to get in as best I could. 

 Q. You won so much in your career, what's the buzz like of still going into the fourth day with a big chance to win a tournament? What's it like? 
 KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, I mean, that's what I work hard for. When people say, why are you still playing, that's why I'm still playing. That's the part why I work hard. I love putting myself in that position, and I think I've wanted it too much in the last few years, and tried too hard to put myself there. 
 So I'm just going to enjoy tomorrow. I've got a great opportunity to win and I'll just go out there and do my best. 

 Q. For someone who has not won on the LPGA Tour, and you have obviously won 36 times I think it is, does that play a role tomorrow, do you think?
 KARRIE WEBB: Yes and no. I think obviously it's a great opportunity for Chie, never having won on the LPGA but she's won plenty of times in Japan so she knows how to win and how to get it done. If she plays like she did today, it's going to be a battle right down to the end.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT