HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
February 25, 2011
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MIKE SCANLAN: If you would just take us through your round today, 6-under par 66 puts you in very close proximity to the lead.  
 KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, I feel great about it. You know, fairly solid round. I putted really well today. You know, I didn't probably hit it as consistently well as I did yesterday but I didn't really make any really bad swings, and you know, when I missed greens, I was able to get them up-and-down. And then I took advantage of the good iron shots that I hit and made a few birdies.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: I know we spoke last week and you were feeling pretty comfortable with your game obviously. You've been on a four-week stretch of playing now. How are you feeling overall?   
 KARRIE WEBB: Well, I've gotten a bit of a cold over the last couple of days. I think my body is telling me I wouldn't be doing five in a row; put it that way.   
  
  Q. Is it easier with more experience --  
 KARRIE WEBB: I don't know if golf ever becomes easier. I think, you know, if I look back when I was younger, I probably wouldn't have agreed with you ten, 12 years ago; that it was the ignorance of youth. Now that I look at it, it really was.  
 I think the more experience you have, the more good and bad experiences you have. So I think to me, it's just overcoming all of those things and just going out there and playing golf.   
  
  Q. (Has it changed, the interaction with the fans)?   
 KARRIE WEBB: I don't know if we have to work harder. I think we just do it anyway. I think that just comes naturally to us, you know, to be more involved with the fans and to appreciate people being out here watching us and not take it for granted.   
 I think we do have to make sure that we keep doing do that and not think of ourselves as above the normal standard of every day people. I think women tend to keep a level head that way a little bit easier, so I don't think we have to work that hard. But I know it's an important aspect of the LPGA, anyway; that we do give back to the fans.   
  
  Q. Do you prefer more people watching --  
 KARRIE WEBB: Well, yeah, I think so. I think that's sort of similar to my last seasons. Just that you don't get to the top of the sport without having an ego. I think everyone's got to have an ego. But I think, you know -- well, I can only speak for myself.   
 But I know my ego is on the golf course and once it's done, you know, I have to check that and descend into non-golf Karrie.   
  
  Q. Inaudible.   
 KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, it's nice to be up there on Friday with a chance and making up a little bit of ground to even give myself a chance.   
 You know, I'm looking forward to the weekend and we'll see what happens.   
  
  Q. Has there been any change in your --  
 KARRIE WEBB: No. I mean, times where I thought, you know, do I really need to beat my head up against the wall anymore. But I've never had anything else that I wanted to move onto.   
  
  Q. Does competing get easier or more difficult as you get older with more experience?   
 KARRIE WEBB: I don't know. You know, I would stay involved in golf in some way. But I would like to look outside the box, as well, and look at other challenges.   
 You know, golf's been good enough to me that I don't think I'll have to do an extreme amount of work to make a living. So, you know, I'd like to find something that actually means a lot to me.   
  
  Q. (And do you have interests outside of golf you like to do)?   
 KARRIE WEBB: Well, I love being on the water. So I love boating and fishing and just being by the pool reading. Anything out by the water I love.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Karrie, thanks so much.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT