HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
February 23, 2011
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Your season so far, how are you going? Third, ninth, seventh, pretty solid start. 
 KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, it's been pretty solid. Last week was probably my best performance. Obviously I finished third. But my game felt a lot more like where I would like it to be. Hopefully I can continue that and give myself a few more chances to win and see what happens.

 Q. So what was last week, you mentioned -- sort of a 74 to start, so must have played nicely there after. 
 KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, I did. Friday and Saturday, I really hit the ball very well.
 Sunday I got off to a tough start but played well my last 12, 13 holes. You know, and then to shoot 3-under after where I started was a pretty good effort.

 Q. Anything that you had worked on in the off-season, obviously a good start, anything in particular that you did? 
 KARRIE WEBB: No, it was just I think shaking the rust off, and my ball-striking got better last week, which, you know, that felt good to be out there and know could I play shots that I was looking at.

 Q. What about this week, you played a couple of times already, expectation this is week?
 KARRIE WEBB: Well, I've played not too bad here in the past. You know, I think the course suits me pretty well. Again, I think it's a course where you've got to hit the ball pretty well just to give yourself a decent putt. Hopefully I can continue the ball-striking I had from last week.

 Q. I guess a pretty popular event, all of the top players are here; does it have a good sort of place in your schedule each year?
 KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, it does for sure. I think HSBC run a great event, world-class event and it has a great feel to it. And I think the girls love coming to Singapore and playing here. 

 Q. This is on the LPGA season, the second of two weeks; a kick start, really, important to get a good start when you have a couple of weeks coming off. 
 KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, I always hope to get off to a good start at the beginning of the year. I think it just sort of takes the pressure off the rest of the year if you can sort of get in there and get some momentum going. 

 Q. Having seen the Pro-Am today, any prediction? What sort of score do you think is needed over the four days?
 KARRIE WEBB: Fairly similar. The wind such more than it ever has been here. That might make it a little bit tougher. We'll see, if the conditions stay the same, the scores might be as low as normal. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT