SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC
June 20, 2010
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Good going out there today. 
 KARRIE WEBB: Yeah. Thanks. Nice way to finish the week.

 Q. I get the feeling that as well as you played, that you could have even gone lower. 
 KARRIE WEBB: Yes and no. I mean I played pretty solidly today, made some good putts. 
 Actually, the keys were probably making some of those par putts to keep the momentum going during the round. 

 Q. Does your mindset change when you're going into the final round of the tournament a little bit behind? 
 KARRIE WEBB: Yeah. I think you sort of free up, which is the way you should be the whole week, but you know you've got nothing to lose on the last day and you just try to go out there and be a bit more relaxed and see what you can do.

 Q. A little more aggressive or no?
 KARRIE WEBB: No, probably just not -- playing with less fear, I guess.

 Q. Does that kind of explain the last two weeks? I mean last week you finished with a 65, now 64?
 KARRIE WEBB: Yeah. Last week, though, I was on the wrong half of the draw, and we got a lot of wind on Friday afternoon. 
 I didn't finish my round off as well there, but you know, the scores were just unbelievably low through two rounds. 
 I had a great weekend last weekend as well, but this weekend, the first two days I didn't play well at all, and today I did a lot of good things, which is good to see for next week. 

 Q. What was the difference?
 KARRIE WEBB: Well, probably just the momentum putts, like I said. You know, I made my fair share of mistakes today like I did the last couple of days, but I didn't make a bogey, so it's -- you know, the course is giving out pretty low scores and you don't really want to fall back with a bogey, so the fact that I didn't do that today kept the momentum going, so I didn't feel like I was constantly trying to make up for mistakes.

 Q. Did the course play that much different today as it did the first couple of days?
 KARRIE WEBB: It played pretty similar to all week. I think it's dried out a little bit more; the fairways are running, but I think the tricky thing is is trying to work out where the wind is coming because a lot of the holes are cross-wind, so it's trying to work out if it's helping you or hurting you because it sort of switches back and forth during the day.

 Q. Do you like this course, this event?
 KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, I do. I like it. 

 Q. I remember a couple of years ago you played really well in the last round, too, shot a 64 or 63 or something. 
 KARRIE WEBB: Yeah. Yeah. I don't think I've ever had a chance to win here, but I've always played fairly well. Next year I'll hopefully get into contention and see if I can do it on Sunday again. 

 Q. Nice playing. 
 KARRIE WEBB: All right. Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT