CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 6, 2009
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Did you think maybe she 3-putts and into the turn you're one back?
 KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, at least it would have been two. I think you think Suzann is going to make it no matter what but I really made her think about that putt. I thought it had gone in. Just really disappointing, I had a putt on 7 as well and could have got one shot closer. She made three birdies at the back nine and that was really the end of the tournament I think. 

 Q. Neat to be in contention again, kind of weird that ten years later you're back on the same course and right there again with a chance to win?
 KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, it was good. Obviously I really appreciated the crowds this week. They treated me like a defending champion. That was fun. 
 To have a chance today was -- I didn't think I would get that close on the front nine but just wasn't meant to be.

 Q. What was going through your head when you pulled to within three strokes after five holes?
 KARRIE WEBB: Just that I had a chance.

 Q. The putts on 7 and 9, you talked about, what was the cause of that, do you think? 
 KARRIE WEBB: Do you want to ask the Man Up stairs why it doesn't go in? I tried 100% to make the putt and they didn't go in. I can't tell you why they didn't go in. I wish I knew.

 Q. Did the course play a lot differently today? Seemed like it was certainly not easier but at least there was not as much wind as there had been early year in the week?
 KARRIE WEBB: They shortened a few tees on the back nine which I'm not sure why they did made it easier for everybody, and a lot of front pins. I was surprised at the setup but the wind did get up there on the back nine to make us think about it.

 Q. Her golf was pretty steady all day. 
 KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, I think for her, even 9 was pivotal and she went and made three birdies to start the back nine. Although I don't think she will say she felt comfortable, I think that something weird would have had to happen for her to lose from there. 
 I would have liked to have finished off a little better. 

 Q. How disappointing was the chip-in on 10 from your point of view to watch her do that when she comes up short? 
 KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, but that's golf. Can't do anything about it. You can't control what other people do and that's what's hard for people to understand is all you can do is somewhat control your golf ball as much as possible.

 Q. Can you run us through your scorecard today? 
 KARRIE WEBB: I birdied the second. I hit a 9-iron to 20 feet and made the putt. 
 Then I hit a wedge on 4 to about the same distance and made the putt. 
 5-wood just right of the green on 5 and got up-and-down, holed with a 6-footer. 
 And 16, I made bogey. 
 Bogey on 13, I missed the green right. Ended up holing about a 6-footer for bogey. 
 16, I hit an 8-iron to about six feet and made the putt. 
 17, I chipped to about a foot and a half and missed it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT