CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 5, 2009
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You had a little bit of that magic you had in '99 going for a little while today. 
 KARRIE WEBB: Yeah. 

 Q. Were you disappointed you didn't finish it off?
 KARRIE WEBB: A little bit. You know, the wind just kept getting stronger and stronger. The Back 9 wasn't playing easy at all. 
 I thought I left a couple shots out there, but the greens are tricky, and if you don't get it on line, or sometimes you can hit your line. I think I hit my line on the last, and I don't know what happened to that putt. So either it bounced off line or I misread it, so --
 But you know, I'm pretty happy with the way things have gone. Obviously if I was a couple better, I'd have a closer chance tomorrow.

 Q. With your iron striking distance, how do you go after tomorrow?
 KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, just depends on Suzann finishes, obviously. But you know, I'm going to be a few shots back, but it's not only between me and her at this point in time, and she's out there by herself. And sometimes that's a bit of a daunting task. And there's a ton of great players behind her that will be gunning to shoot a rallying round tomorrow. 

 Q. What makes that a daunting task?
 KARRIE WEBB: Just the way you approach it mentally. You know, in your mind you want to approach the day the same as you have the first three, but you know you don't have to do anything stupid, attack pins and stuff like that, so sometimes that takes you out of your game plan because you're not attacking pins that you normally would.
 And you know, if you lose a couple of shots early, then all of a sudden it's game on for everybody. 

 Q. In Suzann's case she won five times a couple years ago and hasn't won since. (Indiscernible). 
 KARRIE WEBB: Possibly. I know she wants it really bad and just didn't finish it up last week, so I know she'll be wanting to finish it up tomorrow. 

 Q. Karrie, did you have a number in mind today when you went out? Were you maybe hoping for a 66 finish again?
 KARRIE WEBB: That would be nice. I didn't realize it was going to get so windy, and then it pitched out from the first tee, so I didn't really have a number in mind. Obviously I got off to a great start and I just wanted to continue from then. 

 Q. Can you run us through your scorecard quickly? 
 KARRIE WEBB: Yeah. First birdie was on the second, I hit a 9-iron just on the back fringe and chipped in. It was almost a part with my sand wedge in the hole. 
 Then, what was my next one? The sixth hole I hit a 7-iron to about a foot. Seventh hole I hit a wedge to about a foot, and the 9th hole I hit my 52-degree wedge to six inches, so that was -- I didn't have to worry about my putting on that one. 
 Then let's see, a bogey on 11. Hit a really good shot in there, just went through the green, and I hit a good little chip shot to about three-and-a-half feet and missed it. 
 13, the way I drove the ball left off the tee and didn't have any sort of a shot and actually got lucky. I was just short of the green in two, and hit it onto about 15, 20 feet and missed the putt for par. 
 And then 15, I hit my 52-degree wedge to about three or four feet and made that. 17, I drew a bad lie in the rough on the right, and I think it was in a really low divot, so my approach shot wasn't very good, and had about a 45, 50-footer and three-putted. And then the last I hit a 5-wood to five feet, two-putted for birdie. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT