ADT CHAMPIONSHIP
November 23, 2008
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   KARRIE WEBB: No, but I gave myself a chance, you know. To make it to Sunday, was the minimum goal for the week then to have a shot for today. I played very solidly. I probably just needed a couple more putts though. But I'm happy I made Ji-Yai think about it on the last hole.   
  
  Q. Bittersweet that this is the final ADT here in West Palm Beach. Your home-town tournament, kind of tough to see it go?   
 KARRIE WEBB: Oh, for sure. It's always nice to play a tournament and wake up in your own bed, and play a course that you play pretty regularly. So, yeah, I'm very disappointed to see it go.  
  
  Q. What was the club on 18 and what was the putt there?   
 KARRIE WEBB: It was right between 8 and 9-iron, so a little 8, and then the putt was at about 14, I think.   
 It was back about six inches roughly.  
  
  Q. How far?   
 KARRIE WEBB: Probably 30 feet.   
  
  Q. You were in a playoff with her earlier this year in Australia. She's a pretty solid player?  
 KARRIE WEBB: Well, I've played with her before.   
  
  Q. And the former year --  
 KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, I'm just glad I got one. I got one before she got going. I just wish I could have got this one and the Australian Open now.   
 No, she's a quality play. I don't know. She didn't miss a fairway today, and I think she only missed a couple of greens. She's a great ball striker. She putts well. She's a great player. Rolls it well.   
 There wasn't, to me, one sign of nerves out there today. She hit it at the pin 16, 17 and 18. So I don't think she felt the nerves of winning a million dollars.  
  
  Q. She's going to play here full-time next year. Do you look at her as a Top 5 player right now?   
 KARRIE WEBB: Oh, I think so. We were talking on 15, and this is her 34th or 35th event. She can't even keep count. She's not quite sure if it's 34 or 35.   
  
  Q. Pro?   
 KARRIE WEBB: For the year, and she's got two more to go. So I said we don't even have that many tournaments next year, so you'll have a slow year.   
  
  Q. Playing for a million dollars today, what do you do?   
 KARRIE WEBB: Well, you know, I think Ji-Yai might have been the only player who didn't think about how you were going to spend the million dollars. It's very hard not to think about it.   
 It would be a wonderful, would be wonderful problem to have is to have what you're going to buy with it or what you're going to do with it.   
  
  Q. How much will you play in Australia? And what will you pick up from the LPGA next year?   
 KARRIE WEBB: I'll play both events in Australia, and Australian Open and Australian Masters.   
  
  Q. Win a couple of those?   
 KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, Australian Open, I really want to. It's the second opportunity to watch what I'm playing with. But I've got to watch all day. She didn't miss the middle of the fairway, I don't think.   
  
  Q. It seemed like the wind was calm early and then it picked up again, is that what happened?   
 KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, it was a bit gusty. But once it picked up t blew in the same direction, which made it a little bit easier.  
  
  Q. She won the women's British as well this year. She's no secret in LPGA circuits, but how much do you think when she plays full-time next year people will really seek her name?   
 KARRIE WEBB: Well, I think out of all of the Koreans that have come up, she's got the most potential.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT