ADT CHAMPIONSHIP
November 22, 2008
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Even holes up, do you think it's a playoff or?   
 KARRIE WEBB: I don't know, I'll just sit back and wait and see.  
  
  Q. How unnerving is that?   
 KARRIE WEBB: I can't do anything about it now. What I can control is done, so we'll see what happens.  
  
  Q. It was blowing pretty hard in the morning, and just never stopped?  
 KARRIE WEBB: It's still blowing pretty hard right now.  
  
  Q. How hard? I mean, it's be like the plays were set up easily to begin with?  
 KARRIE WEBB: No, not at all.  
  
  Q. Was this the toughest of the three?   
 KARRIE WEBB: Oh, yeah, by far.  
  
  Q. You play here all the time. On a scale of 1 to 10, how tough is the course playing, do you think?   
 KARRIE WEBB: This is as tough as it ever is. None of the banks are shaved for the members. And the greens probably are two or three feet slower for the majority of the time, unless they have a club championship or something. But never even get them up to this fast.   
 I got the putt on 16, and I was uphill almost straight into the green, into the wind, and just touched it and went three feet past.   
 So, you know, it's almost sometimes I think a disadvantage that I play here so much, because it doesn't play the way it does when I play it the other 99% of the time.  
  
  Q. Yet you still seem to get to the Top 8. You're there?  
 KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, it has a little bit of personal knowledge helps me a little bit.  
  
  Q. The other ADTs that you've played here under similar different type of situations, how would you rank the conditions today?   
 KARRIE WEBB: I would say it's one of the tough days. We've never played with the greens this fast, so it's hard to get good distance control on a day like today. And you don't want to be on the putts today so that make it's even harder.  
  
  Q. With everybody in contention to play tomorrow, there's only you and Paula left that have any experience playing in that 8 for 1 format. Any significant edge, do you think, if you get there?   
 KARRIE WEBB: I don't think so. It's just 18 holes, and everyone knows how to get the ball in the hole, it's just whether or not you can do it on that given day.  
  
  Q. Do you stay at home this week?   
 KARRIE WEBB: Uh-huh, yeah.   
  
  Q. Are you disappointed to see this event move from this course?   
 KARRIE WEBB: Of course, I am. I love playing the tournament where I can stay at home. It's the end of the season, too, so, you know, I have some friends down, and we have a good time. So I'm disappointed.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT