GINN TRIBUTE HOSTED BY ANNIKA
June 1, 2008
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Karrie, if you would take us through the playoff and what happened there.   
 KARRIE WEBB: Um, I hit a 5-iron on the green and 3-putted from 25 feet.   
  
  Q. Karrie, you seemed like you struggled with the putter all day today. Is that the case, and is there any explanation?   
 KARRIE WEBB: That's how I've putted all year. The first two rounds were the only difference this week. I putted poorly yesterday as well.   
  
  Q. Did you think you maybe got some confidence from the green on 18 to get into the playoffs, or was it the short putts there were bothering you more than the other ones?   
 KARRIE WEBB: There is no excuse for missing that putt, so it had nothing to do with whether I made the putt on 18 or not.   
  
  Q. Despite the way it ended, are you encouraged heading into next week, the state of your game, major championship and all that?   
 KARRIE WEBB: I'll probably wake up tomorrow a little more encouraged than I feel right now. Obviously, you know, to put myself in there as a chance to win is more than maybe I thought at the start of the week. You know, I did have two really good days of putting, and I've just got to get back to being more relaxed on the greens like I was the first few days and, you know, obviously, you know, I can carry a lot of it into next week.   
  
  Q. It seemed like you lined the last putt up quickly, there. Was any part of you that said it was "gimme putt"?   
 KARRIE WEBB: No.  
  
  Q. I was walking behind you over here, and you seemed to have a level of frustration. Can you put it into words?   
 KARRIE WEBB: I can't put it into words, no.   
  
  Q. What were your thoughts about Sophie's round today? I know you're not pulling against Sophie, you're pulling for yourself, but at any point did you begin to feel sorry for her? What she was going through?   
 KARRIE WEBB: Certainly a shock to see. She started off confidently again today and played well yesterday, and I definitely was surprised to see the way she played the back 9.   
 It wouldn't have been a surprise to see her make a couple of bogeys, because it's tough to play with such a lead like that, but, you know, definitely I feel bad for her. You could probably tee it up nine times out of ten with a 6-shot lead on Sunday and win, and I'm sure she's very disappointed.   
  
  Q. Karrie, one more question about next week. You've been very close the last couple of years. What would you need to do even a tiny bit better to get the victory that you want?   
 KARRIE WEBB: Just make some putts. You know, I'm swinging it pretty good, and I've just got to believe in myself more.   
 THE MODERATOR: Karrie, thanks for coming in.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT