GINN TRIBUTE HOSTED BY ANNIKA
May 30, 2008
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   KARRIE WEBB: 11, I hit my 19-degree rescue just short of the degree and chipped up to about five feet.   
 14, bogey, I actually got a little bit of a lucky break there and hit the green left and was in the hazard but it was playable and the hit a 5-iron there and I chipped in to 20 feet and 2-putted for bogey.   
 Birdied 15. I laid up and hit wedge to the back fringe and had about 20 feet.   
 17, 7-iron to about 15 feet.   
 18, I hit my 19-degree rescue to about 18 feet.   
 2, hit the green left with an 8-iron in the green-side bunker and ended up missing about a 6-footer.   
 Eagle, I hit a 3-wood on the green to about 18 feet and made the putt.   
 Birdied 5. 7-iron out of the left rough to a foot and a half, two feet.   
 Birdied 6. I hit sand wedge to about four feet.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Thanks score coming in, 6-under today, 13-under for the week, just if you would talk about how you played today and how you feel being in the lead going into the weekend.   
 KARRIE WEBB: Well, obviously, at the moment I'm in the lead. I'd be surprised if I'm not at the end of the day. Feels great. I would say that my putting was better than yesterday and my ball-striking not quite as sharp but I managed to hit some quality shots when I needed to and it's good to see some longer birdie putts go in. It's a great feeling to have a good feel on the greens.   
  
  Q. Did you say you would or would not be surprised if you were not in the lead at the end of the day?   
 KARRIE WEBB: Oh, I mean, someone would have to -- I think 5-under was the low score shot yesterday, so someone would have to shoot 9-under to be leading, so I would be surprised. I'm not saying it's out of the realm of possibility, but you know, I don't think I'll be more than a shot behind.   
  
  Q. What are the scoring conditions like out there, and do you feel like you really have to go low, or you're losing ground to the field?   
 KARRIE WEBB: I really haven't gotten caught up in it. You know, I think the scores are pretty low out there, and the greens are very receptive, whereas last year, up until the weekend they were quite firm. You know, it makes it easier to attack pins. The course played long again today, the fairways for some reason didn't get mowed last night, so you know, it still played quite long. Possibly as long as yesterday.   
 So you know, but once again, even coming in again with longer clubs, the greens are holding very well and they are rolling nicely as well.   
  
  Q. Is there something about this course that suits your game or is it just that you're swinging well at the right time and it would not necessarily matter what course you were playing when you play well?   
 KARRIE WEBB: I do like the golf course. It's a bit of a ball-striker's course and it's also, again, especially the back nine, it's a really good driving golf course. It's definitely a premium on getting it in the fairway and you know, I have hit quality tee shots at the right time this week, and then I have been hitting it nicely coming in here, so it's just nice to feel comfortable on the greens.   
  
  Q. What's your confidence level at this point? Do you feel very confident about what you're doing with your game and you know, your chances maybe going into the weekend?   
 KARRIE WEBB: Well, yeah, after two rounds, the way I played, I haven't shot 65-66, consecutively for quite some time.   
 I'm not counting my chickens, of course, but I like the position I'm in, and I know I need two quality rounds like these two Saturday and Sunday and hopefully that will give me a great shot.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Great, thanks for coming in. Good luck this weekend.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT