GINN TRIBUTE HOSTED BY ANNIKA
May 29, 2008
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: Birdie at the first?
 KARRIE WEBB: I hit 7-iron to about six inches, and I made that one. 
 I hit my rescue in the right green-side bunker on No. 3 and holed it for eagle. 
 6, I hit a sand wedge there to about three feet. 
 10, I hit a 5-iron to 35 feet. 
 11, 3-wood just short of the green and chipped it up to four or five feet.
 18, I hit 5-iron to four or five feet. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Congratulations, nice round today and excellent birdie on the 18th to take the lead at 7-under. Can you talk about the conditions out there and how you played today? 
 KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, I think the conditions as far as no wind really, that was pretty friendly to us, and obviously the rain overnight made it a little bit easier to keep the ball in the fairway. In the Pro-Am it was getting to be a struggle to keep the ball in the fairway. 

 Q. You've got to be really happy with the way you played today; yet, you feel like you left a few out there. You had birdie putts practically straight through from 9 until 16. Do you feel like you left some out there?
 KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, possibly. When you have as many chances as I did today, even though you feel like you could have left some out there, I'm not going to complain too much. I mean, if I was sitting on 2-under and I would tell you, I left a lot out there, but you know, shooting 7-under I'm very happy with. 
 Hopefully I'll save those putts for the next three days.

 Q. This is the time of the year where you always seem to kick your game up a gear as we come into some of the big money events, a couple major championships up; do you feel like you're starting to peak now?
 KARRIE WEBB: Well, I hope so. I've been swinging it quite nicely for the majority of the year, and just not really getting the most out of it, just not seeing the putts drop as much as I would like. 
 You know, I think if my putting is about to peak, then I think I'm in good shape. 

 Q. Your last win was 2006. Do you feel like you're getting close to where you're winning consistently again?
 KARRIE WEBB: I know most people don't count wins outside of the United States as wins but I have would be three times in Australia the last few years, but I haven't won on the LPGA since 2006. Obviously that's the Tour where your career is judged mainly. 
 Obviously I'd like to give myself more chances of winning than I am, and then hopefully start getting on that track where I'm pulling off those wins, as well. 

 Q. We're judging it by the United States; how do you judge your career in those wins? Do they mean as much to you as the wins you have over here, the ones in Australia?
 KARRIE WEBB: Definitely. When I won the Australian Open this year and it was very special. I was able to kick myself into another gear with two or three holes to go and get into a playoff and then win the playoff. It was on one of the world's best golf courses, Kingston Heath, in Melbourne. 
 It's special to win on golf courses like that; the Australian Open. I take pride in those wins. They may not -- at the end of my career, they may not be as prestigious as winning a U.S. Open or any of the majors on the LPGA schedule, but you know, take pride in winning on those great golf courses. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Thanks for coming in, Karrie. Good luck tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT