BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
March 13, 2008
Tony Carolan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  A new leader emerges out of the darkness. 
 TONY CAROLAN:  I nearly wasn't leading because the greens are nearly underwater they are so damp.I had a 35-footer for birdie  on the last and I left it six feet short, ridiculous.  In the morning you didn't feel it.  But at this time of night you put the ball down and feel the cold coming off the green. 

 Q.  Glad to get in? 
 TONY CAROLAN:  Very happy, yeah.  Put a new driver and 3-wood in the bag this week, and I was quite happy with my 3-wood.  There's a lot of holes out here where I can hit my 3-wood 250 and leave myself a solid 8- or 9-iron to the green. 
 Got to have to a good start and made a good 2-putt par on the first and hit it close off the two, made a nice birdie from three feet.  And the next, I hole it from about ten feet.  Didn't birdie the next but three in a row, the first four holes. 
 Then I got a new caddie.  He was jiggling clubs while putting; moving; he had soft spikes on, so he wasn't allowed on the greens.  I just told him to go. 
 After I went par, birdie, birdie, I sacked him.  He was just terrible.  I'm paying him a USD$160, and he couldn't walk on the greens.  I said man, you've got to stay off the greens.  The other caddies were doing too much work. 

 Q.  First time you've ever sacked a caddie on the course? 
 TONY CAROLAN:  No.  I think it's the second time.  The other guy raked a bunker while I was in there after I told him not to.  Actually I didn't sack him then, I sacked him the next day. 

 Q.  So you've never sacked someone during a round? 
 TONY CAROLAN:  I don't think so but I think I've been sacked by a caddie, though!  

 Q.  What's your background? 
 TONY CAROLAN:  Played in the mid 90s early onwards on the Asian Tour, and then I went to Canada and played on and off there for six years, one year where I played Challenge Tour, had conditional status in 2000.  Then had some injuries, and in 2004, I got a full exempt card on the Nationwide Tour and was exempt and played the whole year with a torn cartilage.  The physios out there had no clue, they just kept saying, you've got to stretch more, you've got to stretch more.  I'm driving 20 hours in a car week-to-week; do you think I'm just getting out of the car and going to bed, of course I'm in the stretching after long drives.  So I had pretty much 2005 off.  I didn't do much, played some Pro-Ams. 
 End of 2005 I went to Asian Q-School, so I had the whole year off and went to Q-School, got my card.  That was when the caddie raked the bunker.  I got a two-stroke penalty and went from 13th to 31st at the Q-School, cost me a category and stats in all the big events.  So I had to really work to get exempt and finished 34th last year. 
 This year, I think I'm about 20th an the Asian Tour Money List.  I've played every week, first week at Emaar, withdrew after 15 holes, sick as a dog, and then I think I was 19th at Jakarta and then 14th at the SAIL Open, so I was a little disappointed with that.  I went into Johnnie Walker and finished 17th, and last week I shot 3-under and missed the cut by a shot.  12 birdies, 3-under to miss the cut, I just made too many mistakes.  Today I made the 6-footers. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT