VRBO CITRUS BOWL: AUBURN VS NORTHWESTERN
December 30, 2020
Chad Morris
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Obviously Northwestern has a strong defense, rated highly in a lot of categories on that front.  What have you seen and what have you had your guys looking at specifically when it comes to approaching their defensive unit?
 CHAD MORRIS:   Well, first of all, I've always admired the program of Northwestern.  Those guys, each year they are always in the top echelon defensively; this year being no different.  These guys are very well-coached.  They are sound.  They are gap-sound.  They don't do a whole lot defensively but what they do, they do it very well and the guys tackle extremely well in space.  They are very aggressive, physical.  And so those are the things that really stand out to me as I watch and game plan for these guys.
 But we definitely have our work cut out for us.
 Q. You and Gus go way back.  I know he reached out when things ended at Arkansas last year.  What were your conversations like with him after the news came down after the Mississippi State game and what was your reaction?
 CHAD MORRIS:   My reaction was much like everybody in the building when it all happened.  It's a tough time.  You kind of go through different phases when it does happen and I was just there just to tell him how much I appreciate him.  You know, he and my relationship go way back, and so I was just there just to help lend an ear and lend a hand but I'm very, very indebted to Coach Malzahn and what he's done and want to wish him the best moving forward.
 Q. When you last played, Brenden Coffey was one of your new starters on offensive line.  How did he do, and is Bro-Hamm going to be able to go?  And I know it's been a strange year for your offensive line in general.  Can you talk about that?
 CHAD MORRIS:   You know, we're still trying to get everybody healthy up there in the front.  That's kind of been the position that's gotten the injury bug a bit but I thought Brenden Coffey did a good job, being his first time to get extensive playing in, and you know, being able to get some good work throughout Bowl practice.
 I'm excited for him and moving forward and just I think he's a young man that's got a bright future, and he'll continue to get better.
 Q. I wondered if the mindset of the team will be more relaxed and will you be calling all the plays and do you have very many individuals missing from your offense in this game?
 CHAD MORRIS:   Outside of the individuals that Coach Steele has already talked about, we should be able to get some guys back, hopefully to try to heal some of the nagging injuries.
 As far as playing relaxed, you know, these guys are professional with how we've approached this thing with the coaching change.  These guys that come to work have done a tremendous job getting ready and allowing us to get them ready for this game.  We know we have a great opponent, and as I mentioned earlier, we've got a big task ahead of us going against their top defense.
 I anticipate our guys playing as they have played all year long and that's playing with an edge about themselves.
 Q. How tough has it been in a condensed Bowl week and not knowing who is going to be out there from practice to practice and shuffling guys around, how tough has it been to prepare for the game?
 CHAD MORRIS:   It's kind of been the norm to be honest with you.  It's kind of we have had to deal with all year long, you don't know one day to the next or one game to the next who is going to be out there with all the uncertainties that we've had to deal with.
 So it's really been business as usual.  Our guys have come to work.  They have gotten after it and we have got a plan.  But it's been kind of along suit with what 2020 has been.
 Q. You talked about the whirlwind of the last month, but I wanted to ask for Bo specifically, how have you seen him handle everything, especially now and preparing for the Bowl game?
 CHAD MORRIS:   I think Bo has done a really good job of getting himself ready.  I know he was excited to get back in here after Christmas, and to finish this thing out just like we started.  That's a big task that we have ahead of us, but to end this thing with a Bowl win would be a great accomplishment for this team and for this team moving forward.
 Q. Your receiver position without Anthony Schwartz, how will that set up, what will be different?
 CHAD MORRIS:   You know, Eli will definitely step in that role.  He's got ample playing time.  He's going to have to get a little bit more.  We try to limit the number of reps that our receivers take, just because of the course throughout the game.
 But I anticipate seeing some young guys getting on the field and playing, but Eli, he'll take the majority of the reps.
 Q. Can you talk about what's made Northwestern defense so effective this year and also, D.J. Williams having to time off, is he getting back closer to his normal self?
 CHAD MORRIS:   Well, D.J. has.  He's one of the guys I was referring to as getting back healthy.  So it's good to see him back.  He's gone through all of practice and looks much better and looks a little bit fresh to be honest with you with his legs and so I'm excited about having him back.
 As far as just the Northwestern defense what makes them so sound is, again, they don't do a lot, but what they do is they are very sound in it.  They are very gap-sound.  They have been playing this type of defense for quite some time and so they are really good at it.  Their guys understand the adjustments that have to be made from it.  And to be able to watch those guys and how they communicate, it is very impressive.
 They will give some exotic looks on third down, but again, I think that just does a great job of complementing what they do on base downs.
 Q. How do you personally go about preparing that plan?  How many Northwestern games would you feel comfortable that you need to watch in preparing for a week to really identify and be secure and that you know what perhaps would work and perhaps what you would want to stay away from?
 CHAD MORRIS:   Well, one, they didn't play as many games this year so you had very few games that go off from personnel standpoints from a year ago. So what you do at that point is you try to find teams, offenses, that are similar to what you run from formational, from plays, and you try to break those down and whether it's four games, whether it's five games, maybe it's all six games, you definitely watch all of them from a personnel standpoint just to look at the different personnel.
 But from a schematic standpoint, you try to focus on the teams that are very similar to what you do.
 Q. On that note with Northwestern having not played as many games and their COVID problems and them having played a game and you having been away for a while with a coaching change with, everything that's happened, is this the strangest Bowl experience you've ever been a part of?
 CHAD MORRIS:   Well, it has been, but again, it's kind of been the norm for this year.  When you look at it and you look at just the way things have unfolded, and normally you're down at the Bowl site right now.  You'd be able to enjoy just the hospitality of the Bowl, where now you go down the day before, just like a regular away game.
 So you know, we've tried to make it as Bowl-like as you possibly can without being on the Bowl site.  But our guys have done a great job.  Again, I think change has been a normal word, and these guys have dealt with change extremely well.
 Q. With a next head coach coming in, how do you compartmentalize preparing for this Bowl game and the future of the assistant coaching staff and have you had any conversations with Coach Harsin about that future yet?
 CHAD MORRIS:   No.  You know, right now, Coach is here and he's allowed us to go ahead and do our thing and game plan and get these guys ready to play. and I'm excited about the opportunity to finish this season out at the Citrus Bowl.
 Q. As a play-caller, how much fun has it been to have a guy like Tank Bigsby at running back and the way he's broken out this year and do you expect for him to play for you guys on Friday?
 CHAD MORRIS:   Well, we are hoping.  We'll see on that.  But he has.  He's definitely had a great year, a phenomenal year, a young man that's got an incredible future ahead of him.  When you're able to get the ball in his hands, he makes a lot of things right when they are not right.
 But a young man that loves football and it's a pleasure to be around.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT