NYC HALF
March 16, 2014
Molly Huddle
Sally Kipyego
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   So in her first half marathon, your debut, I guess, congratulations.   She set an event record.   Can you just recap the race a little bit and talk about the conditions, and your debut half distance went pretty well. 
SALLY KIPYEGO:   Thank you.   I think that was just scary to begin with just because it's a long distance for me, but it turned out really well.   It was chilly at the beginning, and I think everyone was kind of conservative at the beginning, myself included.   I just wanted to be careful because I didn't know how it was going to turn out after ten miles or so, and I didn't want the wheels falling off the last three miles. 
So I was a little bit cautious, and it turned out fantastic.   I felt great about ten miles in.   I still felt really smooth and really strong, and I just kind of hung on for the last three miles really.

Q.   Talk about the race, where you took the lead. 
SALLY KIPYEGO:   I think we went together to about eight miles, nine miles or so, me and Molly, and I think that's where the break happened, about nine miles or so. 
THE MODERATOR:   Molly, can you just talk a little bit about your finish today and the conditions. 
MOLLY HUDDLE:   The finish was a little rough for me.   The last mile or two, I was slowing down a lot.   The weather was‑‑ it was chilly, but I'd say, by the time we got to the highway, we had the wind at our back, and the sun was out.   So we warmed up a little bit.

Q.   Since this was the Half Marathon debut for both of you, were you surprised by anything?   Did it exceed your expectations?   Fall short?   Match? 
SALLY KIPYEGO:   To me, it was better than I expected.   I psyched myself so much because I don't do very long, long runs.   My long run is about 14 miles.   So that was really cutting close to what I would normally do as a long, long run. 
So I was more anxious.   So the race turned out to be better than what I expected, or at least what I thought it was going to feel like.   So I felt better than I thought.   I thought I was going to be in so much pain the last two miles or so.   Yes, I was feeling pain, but not as extreme as I thought it would be. 
MOLLY HUDDLE:   For me, it was close to what I expected.   I had hoped to run around 69 minutes.   It felt pretty hard by the end. 
Yeah, again, I think I definitely could‑‑ like what Sally was saying, I could do a little bit more longer stuff for preparation.   I'm definitely still on the track side of workouts for me. 
I was surprised that we were up front because we've never done this before.   Sally looked great, and I could tell it was easy for her.   I knew she'd be a good person to key off of for sure.

Q.   I already asked Sally this offline, but, Molly, what's your focus this season?   You did a 5K two weeks ago, and you did this.   So what's next? 
MOLLY HUDDLE:   I hope to run a good 10K at , and then after that, focus on the 5K for the rest of track season and kind of reassess from there to see if I want to do some longer stuff in the fall. 
So that's the plan for now, just a fast 10K is next on the schedule, and hopefully this helps prepare for that.

Q.   Will you race there? 
SALLY KIPYEGO:   Yes, I will. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT