NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 15, 2013
Luol Deng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Speak about the experience of being here again. 
LUOL DENG:   It's exciting.   I'm happy to be back.   Last year, you do it one time, you see everything and you work hard and you want to come back.   I'm glad I'm back.

Q.   (Inaudible).   
LUOL DENG:   No, there's so much to be done in Africa.   I have a foundation there.   It's an organization to improve and make it a better place over there.
Right now during the season all I can do is put the message out there for people to know there's a lot of talent and a lot of potential in Africa.   There's a lot of stuff going on in Europe and a lot of stuff going on in Asia.   And people sometimes forget there's a lot of talent.

Q.   (Inaudible)
LUOL DENG:   Well, the thing with my home ‑‑ I left my home when I was five because of the civil war.   So it was hard for me, when I left and went to England and they took me in as a refugee, I was ‑‑ Sudan and South Sudan is ‑‑ Sudan is its own country now.   It wasn't that I didn't want to play for them.   There was no peace and no stability in my country.   And my family was forced to leave.   So I played for that country that took me in. 

Q.   Did you know anything about Michael Jordan?
LUOL DENG:   I think everybody's answer is the same.   I'm still, you know, playing for the Chicago Bulls, and been there nine years.   It's amazing to me the fact that when I grew up the team that was on TV, the Chicago Bulls was in the Finals and I was in Egypt at that time.   The only people I knew was Michael Jordan and Scottie Pippen, and there was no other basketball, that's the first thing I had ever seen. 

Q.   Speaking about being in Houston, this is the home of another African great.   (Inaudible).
LUOL DENG:   I really want to.   I was talking to Clyde Drexler about it.   I just feel like there's so much I can improve on.   But so much hopefully someone like ‑‑ so much that we could do back in our homeland.   I work a lot with Mutombo.   And we need to do more.   And now there's a lot more African players in the NBA.   Hopefully we can get together and make a difference. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT