NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v BULLS
May 16, 2011
Luol Deng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		   LUOL DENG: Run the same defense all year. Just we've been doing the same thing since training camp. Guys are just doing -- we're used to doing the same thing. 

 Q. Does the repetition ever get boring? 
 LUOL DENG: Boring? That's a trap. No. It works, so it's fine. So we keep doing it. 

 Q. Do you think that attention to detail and that repetition in practice throughout the season has helped you guys? 
 LUOL DENG: Yeah. It's becoming a habit. It's just instincts now. Especially our bigs. Our bigs were great last game, just stepping up on the switches. Did a good job on the trap. That last series also against Atlanta. 
 And it's just what we've been doing all year, so guys are getting better at it. 

 Q. What kind of luxury is it as a team to have a defense where you have big guys like Omer and Joakim and Taj, big wing players? 
 LUOL DENG: It's great. We trust each other. The trust is just there. The guards, we could go up and pressure the ball knowing our bigs are going to be there. 

 Q. When you signed that contract in 2008, I think a lot of people thought you're going to turn into a big scorer. Do you think versatility is under-appreciated? 
 LUOL DENG: I mean, it's a lot of -- contract, not contract, whatever. Versatility definitely is. But when you're playing great, everyone sees it. When you're struggling, everyone sees it. People always going to have opinions, whether you're worth the money or not. It's just how it goes. It's just the league we play in. 

 Q. How do you prevent a letdown in Game 2. Maintain that emotional intensity? 
 LUOL DENG: I think we have to know this is best out of seven. We did a good job of winning game one. We did great, great result for us. But we have to let that go, especially playing a team like this. They have guys who just can take over games and could go off at any time. We have to realize that if they win the next game, it changes everything. It's still a big game. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT