BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 10, 2000
Craig Esherick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 COACH ESHERICK: I thought we started off the game real well, and I think Connecticut
did a great job of tightening their defense and making every shot that we took a tough
shot. I thought that there was a stretch at the beginning of the game when we got tired
when they had substituted, they put in three new people when we had the lead, and they
ended up catching up after that, then going up ahead against us. I thought we really got
tired. I ended up having to substitute myself. But I thought Connecticut, after that first
spurt that we hit, I thought they played great defense the rest of the game. And Kevin
Freeman is a coach's player. Kevin Freeman is really good. He can rebound, he does all the
intangibles that coaches like. I thought every time we missed a shot and we needed to get
the rebound, Freeman got it. He hit a lot of tough free-throws that they needed down the
stretch, and I thought both Mouring and Robertson hit a couple big threes when we were in
that zone to stretch the lead out to the point where we really didn't have a shot. Any
questions? 
 
Q. Three quick fouls on Ruben in the second half.
 
 COACH ESHERICK: He picked up three quick fouls. (Laughter.) 
 
Q. And their doubling on Scruggs?
 
 COACH ESHERICK: Once Lee got going, I think they thought they had to double. When
they're doubling on Lee, I thought they did a good job of rotating also. Connecticut's got
a very good defensive team. They really stepped it up defensively in this tournament. I
thought all three games they played this tournament, I thought they played extremely well
on defense. 
 
Q. Coach, Kevin looked a little bit fatigued tonight. I mean after the two games he
played yesterday --
 
 COACH ESHERICK: He could have been. He didn't want me to take him out for one second.
He could have been. He was one of the people that was tired during that stretch when we
got the lead and they caught up. I thought he was tired, and I thought he played well. One
of the reasons he did get tired is because Connecticut did a good job on him defensively.
I wanted to set a lot of screens and every time they set a screen for the ball, it seemed
like Kevin had two people on him. Every time Kevin looked to penetrate, there was another
guy there. If he beat his man, there was another guy there. I thought that was a good
strategy on Connecticut's part. 
 
Q. Could you talk about where they held you scoreless? 
 
 COACH ESHERICK: Do I have to talk about that? 
 
Q. Were you getting good looks?
 
 COACH ESHERICK: I thought there were points in the game where we were setting the tone
for jump shots. That probably was the part of the game that you're referring to. I thought
we took too many threes and I think we took -- some of it was trying to catch up at the
end. But I don't think we're that good of a three-point shooting team that we should be
shooting 23 threes. Connecticut is a better shooting team than we are. They only took ten
threes and we played zone. So I thought there were two stretches, I thought, during that
game where we took too many deep, deep shots where we could have gotten some ball, maybe
gotten the ball inside to Jameel or Ruben. That was Connecticut's fault. Connecticut did a
good job forcing us to do that. 
 
Q. How difficult do you think it is for Connecticut to win four games in four days? Or
is it moot at this point?
 
 COACH ESHERICK: They're the reigning national champions, they're the reigning Big East
champions, they're the reigning -- well, they're not the reigning Big East regular season
champions anymore. But they have veteran leadership on their team. Mouring, Freeman,
Khalid have been around a long time and they've played a lot of minutes. If anybody can do
it, they can do it because of the people that they have. 
 
Q. What will you take positive from this tournament?
 
 COACH ESHERICK: We had a good run. We had a good run. Nobody thought we were going to
beat Syracuse. A lot of people probably didn't think we were going to beat West Virginia
when they found out Ruben wasn't going to play. Nobody gave us a chance to play
Connecticut close. I think that's definitely positive for our team. I think -- we've won
18 games. I thought we finished the season -- we've gotten better. We finished the season
strong, and we'll see what happens. I think there's a lot of positive things we can take
out of this trip up here. 
 
Q. Do you expect 19 at this point? Are you hoping for the tournament??
 
 COACH ESHERICK: Of course I'm hoping for the tournament. I was hoping for the
tournament before the Big East tournament started. Yes, whether or not that's realistic, I
don't know. We'll see. I think we're playing well. I think we have a good team. I think
we've proven that we have a good team. Whether or not we deserve to be in the tournament,
that's up to the Tournament Selection Committee. 
 
Q. Do you think Ruben's inability to take advantage of their two big men double team
was because of the injury or just because of their --
 
 COACH ESHERICK: I think just like Kevin was tired, I think Ruben was tired, too. I
think Ruben was tired for a different reason because he didn't practice for four or five
days before he played against Syracuse. And so I think Ruben was a little tired. But,
again, Connecticut has a very good defensive team. Voskuhl's a good defender, and Freeman
is a good defender. They both are very good post defenders. Thank you. 
 
End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT