INGERSOLL-RAND SENIOR TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 6, 1999
Gary McCord
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








GARY McCORD: I was -- I don't know how many shots coming back out of the lead, but it
was a billion shots, just because I'm not playing very good. I haven't been playing good
the last couple of weeks. I've been working on it really hard, really hard. Nothing comes
out of it. You know, you just go out there and I think I had something on the range, maybe
I'll try that. I actually was watching Tiger play in Valderrama, and I remember Tiger has
got a -- he's got a little credo he follows. It's called wide, tight and rip it. I
remembered that, and I thought: Maybe that's what I'm doing, I'm not wide enough, not
tight enough on my turn and it kind of worked. It got to the point where it worked on the
practice tee. Then I went out and the first couple holes I dusted in a couple, stupid
putts on the 1st hole or 2nd hole. That was about 20 feet. 3rd hole, I made one from 50
feet. Next hole, par 5, I hit it over the green in two and chipped back. Next hole -- I
think I made it. 

GARY McCORD: About a foot. Then I made it again. All of the sudden, you started getting
all excited about yourself. 

GARY McCORD: 10 feet, 12 feet. I got going good. The guys we were playing with, we had
a great time. They got sucked into my vacuum, which I was playing and then they started
going good and I was kind of sucked into theirs, and we just kind of kept going and I
think we had 20 birdies for the day. It was one of those deals where you catch the other
guys and you're playing well and you all kind of play well through the round. It was like
drafting, basically, and we just kind of drafted each other all the way out there. 

GARY McCORD: Birdie at 8 par 5. I hit it in the bunker, green high to the right,
pin-high blasted out about six feet and made that. Par 10, I made it from about 10 feet.
11, I didn't. 13, the lake. That was a stupid one. I pitched it and hit it up on the top
there and it sucked all the way back down the hill. Not feeling very good, and I whipped
it in the hole there. It was about 40 feet I guess. I haven't made a putt over six feet,
and I made two 40-footers. Then I hit the next hole, just 6-iron, hit it about three feet.
Couldn't miss that one straight in the hole. The next par 5, I laid back with a second
shot, 7-iron, so I could have a full wedge, sand wedge in there and I think I just got the
right distance. It was 106 yards and spun it back to the hole. Got there to six feet where
I couldn't miss it. And the only one I bogeyed on, I took a chance. The wind was going
pretty good on 18. I tried to hit it on the left-hand side where it's flat and just hit a
hard swing, get it a little higher. But the wind was kicking -- hit 7-iron yesterday, and
it went in some really bad rough; so I just had to pitch it out. Pitched it out and missed
the putt. But I'll take it. 

Q. Sounds like you didn't -- like you're just out there today having a good time
enjoying yourself. Now being three shots off the lead, do you do anything different when
you start out tomorrow?

GARY McCORD: I'm going to keep working on the stuff that I'm working on. When you get
in a position to do anything, you just -- the fairways and greens -- you know, Flash, it's
not going to go anywhere but lower. So, you take a look at the number he's at, and you add
a couple. If he plays okay, and -- what's he, 10, 13? So, I've got to go absolutely
ballistic again tomorrow to catch him. That's what you've got to do. That's what everybody
is going to be doing. 

Q. Were you watching Tiger this morning?

GARY McCORD: I was watching him last night. Yeah, what a golf swing. Wide, tight and
rip it. And he does. But it helped. 

Q. Has he said that?

GARY McCORD: Yeah, yeah. 

Q. Do you get tired at all of chasing the same guy all year? Is that good for the
Senior TOUR?

GARY McCORD: No, it's a number. You know, it's a number. You've got to go low. It
doesn't matter who shoots it. Bruce has been there most of the year shooting it. You know,
the golf courses, you know, are not that hard so you know you can't -- no one is going to
really stumble that's playing that well. This one is a little harder than most, but it's a
still not that hard. Again, you saw what I did today. There are some low numbers out
there. Really low. The wind has been perfect. The only hard hole out there is 18 where you
really go -- I've got to rip it down there and I've got to get it on the green. Otherwise
-- I got my card here in '74, and I don't remember much about the golf course. I remember
it was fairly hard. But I remember the wind was howling here. We haven't had anything.
It's nothing. If the wind does kick up, it will be -- it will be good. But you get this
golf course with no wind, this is as easy as you're going to get it. 

Q. Do you have an inkling that Bruce was going to be the guy to win seven times this
year?

GARY McCORD: I knew Bruce would play well. I thought -- I knew Allen Doyle would play
well because he's got the perfect game for the Senior TOUR. I thought guys like that would
play well. You knew Tom was going to play well. You know the guys coming off the TOUR. You
can see how they are playing and how their game sets up for this TOUR, which is, drive it
straight; you'd better have a very good game inside of 120 yards; and you've still got
your flat (inaudible). If you've got those three things, it's hard to screw up. 

Q. Did you think it was going to be seven wins worth this year, though?

GARY McCORD: I never -- I'm not out here enough to really feel the flow and feel what's
going on. But he's -- you get in that little inner sanctum of playing well, and he's been
in it the whole year and he doesn't get out of it. Where most of us are outside of that
little sanctum of playing well and always trying to get in it. If he ever shoots a 71 or
72, that's a freak show for him. He's used to 67, 68. We're out there trying to get in and
shoot those numbers. The sports psychiatrists call it the zone. He's pretty much been
baptized in the zone this year. Hale was last year. Every year -- there's some good
players coming out here. 

Q. Why do you think Bruce didn't do better on the regular TOUR?

GARY McCORD: Bruce wasn't long enough for the regular TOUR. He hit the ball too low and
wasn't long enough. You've got to go absolutely as high as you can go and as hard as you
can go; otherwise, those golf courses are hard and then you're coming in. Bruce is a very
low angle. I played with him a bunch out there. You've got stacked bunkers with greens
that are 11 on the meter sloping, like this, (indicating steeply upward). I look at all
your great players. They hit it this way, up, Duval, Tiger, Montgomerie, they hit it up in
the air with a lot of spin on it. Bruce was always real low. 

Q. Do you think that the TOUR will see a new look next year with Watson?

GARY McCORD: I think what you'll see is a TOUR in transition. I think this TOUR has
been -- it was set up beautifully because you got some very, very good personalities
coming out selling this TOUR: Trevino, Chi Chi. You can't have two better guys playing
well and out there selling the TOUR. Now you're getting these guys that don't have the
personality of Chi Chi or Lee, which nobody does, but they are all -- they all came from
very good stock, very, very good players. Watson and Kite, Lanny, those are three really
good players. And they are playing fairly decent. Tom has been turned around here the last
couple of months here on the TOUR. You're going to see a lot better players coming out
here, but obviously not the personalities that we've had before. 

Q. How important is that? Are those guys going to be able to sell the TOUR the way the
pioneers did?

GARY McCORD: As it's structured now, I don't think so. But I think the TOUR has already
been sold. I don't think -- I don't think there's any -- you don't have to go sell it;
it's already a viable product. You go out and shoot in good numbers and people come out
and watch no matter if you're 20 or 70. They want to go watch. 

Q. Has this year changed you at all as far as next year?

GARY McCORD: The only thing that's going to change, I have to take a look at how many I
can play. I don't know if I can go at this pace. I need some time off. I need to go home.
This has been a long year. A really long year. I've got so many things that are going on
that I'm trying -- and the only way you can find if you can handle them is to do them; so
I'm doing them all right now, but if a couple of these things hit and I have to do them,
then I've really got no time. So I'm going to have to start whacking a bunch of stuff, but
I don't know what to whack. I like this; CBS I'm contracted to do that. So I'm going to do
these two things, but there's a lot of stuff that might get axed, and I don't know what
yet. 

Q. Rounds like this, do they kind of sway you towards --?

GARY McCORD: No. If you play this game long enough -- I've played -- I've played so bad
yesterday, and then so good today. And you just sit there and you go, what is this? You
know, this is a stupid game. So you never get all of them in order with how good you play
one day because you're going to play bad the next or the next week. It's the idea that
when I peg it in the ground I get a heartbeat, and I like that. Because up in the tower,
you don't get a heartbeat, but vicariously, you sit there and go: I want to get town there
and go play. And then I get the opportunity to go down and play. I like them both. It's a
going to be a tough decision. I'd like to play. I played 17 this year, and that's too
many. But boy, to make the Top 31 every year, you know, I don't know if I'm that good to
play a minimal schedule and keep doing it. 

Q. Do you think 64 is a realistic goal tomorrow, to do it again tomorrow?

GARY McCORD: Probably not. But, you know, I'll go try. I know that I've got to shoot --
I've got to shoot -- the number is probably 13 to win. So I'm 6 back. 

Q. You all were having a lot of fun, as opposed to the first two days you looked pretty
serious the first two days. Does that affect your game?

GARY McCORD: Oh, yeah. Any sports psychologist that's ever talked to me has said: The
only way you're going to play good is if you have fun. If you go out there walk around in
some sort of storm the whole day, you're not going to play well. 

Q. That's you?

GARY McCORD: That's me. And I need to have fun when I play. I had fun today.

Q. So it depends a little bit on who your playing partners are?

GARY McCORD: But you can have fun with your caddie, have fun with the gallery, do
whatever. But I've been struggling with my swing. And it's been pretty good the whole
year, but it just kind of -- it got out of whack, and you're trying so hard. It's really
hard to have fun with the nicks and you're screwed up. Because I'm thinking constantly:
I've got to get this loaded and this transition. I've got four billion things going on,
trying to get back to where I was, whereas before, I never thought about it. 

Q. On every green I saw you doing that with your putter yesterday?

GARY McCORD: The golf swing, I was thinking about this with width and trying to quiet,
and when it goes away, (snaps fingers) you've got to grab it real quick. And luckily, I've
got a little understanding of my golf swing so I can go quick and figure out spots. But
the last couple of weeks, it's been difficult because I haven't looked at it. And I should
be looking at some pictures of my golf swing right now to see where it is. It's not where
I want it but I've got this -- a lot of Band-Aids. 

Q. Some was right today?

GARY McCORD: It was pretty good today. I got in the right positions, and then my timing
came back. But you try and you think so hard. I mean, all day, all night, when I'm out
last night, I'm thinking : I've got to do this and that. When you're playing good, you
don't think about anything. It's just a giant sea between your ears. 

Q. You were talking about the TOUR not having the personalities of Lee and Chi Chi,
guys like that. Do you ever think that -- maybe does it cross your mind that you could be
an answer to that?

GARY McCORD: I'm not an answer to any puzzle, okay. (Laughter.) Not the answer to any
puzzle whatsoever. If I can help The Senior TOUR at all, I'll do anything I can to help
it. But I'm not the answer. You know, I've been out here for a long time, guys and I've
heard the same things. I heard cries for so many years, where are all the good young
players? There's no more good young players. They stopped saying that ten years ago. Now,
it's "Where are they all coming from?" As these guys get better and better and
you watch these guys mature in front of you, they have a certain personality that comes
out. Media always wants a great player and great personality. They always want Trevino.
He's going to come along every three par seconds or something. So you take that, and you
hold him up there and say: Everybody should be like him or a Chi Chi. We were lucky enough
to have them out here when this thing started so this TOUR got a lot of knee on around it
real quick. Those guys, you know, Fuzzy is going to be out here pretty soon in a couple
years, and he's going to be great for it. You take them all in -- how much is enough? 
BRUCE FLEISHER: I want your television contract.
GARY McCORD: I remember when he was selling fake jewelry. 

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT