NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION MEDIA CONFERENCE
March 30, 2009
Tom Izzo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. Coach, it looked like maybe it was as emotional as you've ever been after in and around the basketball game. What was that the other night that maybe struck you a little bit differently? 
 COACH IZZO: It kind of was. I think this year for this team we've had a lot of things to go through with the injuries and illnesses that we've had. And I knew it was a big deal to Travis Walton to kind of keep our string of Final Fours alive as far as our seniors go. And maybe as important to have a tournament in your home state. That doesn't get you any wins or get you any more fans most of the time because of the way the tickets are. This thing is really a national tournament now. 
 But the opportunity to play in our state especially with some of the struggles we've gone through this past year, I guess I felt a little bit like hopefully we can be, you know, the sun shining through some pretty cloudy areas. 

 Q. The good news is you you get to play in Detroit. The bad news is you're playing a team that's lost one road game all year. Can you talk about what you think makes UCONN such a tough opponent on the road and the focus this team seems to have despite what's swirling around the program? 
 COACH IZZO: You know, '99 we played them for the first time. That was the year we both got to the Final Four and they won it. And I realized then from when we played them out there to watching them in that Final Four, you know, Jim does a great job. He has toughness within his players. He finds those blue-collared guys. 
 I mean, I've been amazed over-the-air years the number of great players he's had that maybe weren't rated that high coming out. That means the development is incredible. But I think their toughness, and that's why they win on on the road of the they have mental and physical toughness, and a guy with incredible size. 
 But you look at price, he's playing better. And I think they just got the combination of good players, good size. Good shooters and a very good coach. 

 Q. Hasheem Thabeet, you made reference to him yesterday. Is he one of those once-in-a-blue-moon kind of centers? And how do you counter him? He and Goran Suton are just worlds apart with their strengths, I think. 
 COACH IZZO: I think there is some truth to that. I can't sit here and tell you I know how I counter him because I just started watching a lot of film. I watched Connecticut play a lot this year. But when you watch him as a fan, you don't watch him the same way you do as a coach or an opponent. 
I'm trying to look at some teams that are playing smaller guys on him. Everybody's playing a smaller guy on him. Because nobody's got anybody near that size. But at the same time, you know, you're trying to get a feel for him, because sometimes he just does some things that are incredible for his size of the of.
 You know, I can't say we'll even know until we get there. But at the same time I agree with Matt Painter. I heard his interview after the game. He said he's a hard guy to prepare for. It's a hard guy to simulate in practice, and that their strength and speed, they're athletes. 
 That's probably going to be true. I think the only plus we've had is playing a team that's not as big, but very athletic. A USC team who is very athletic. And Kansas had, you know, a player that, not as big, but a very good post player. 
 You know, it gives us some feel for it, but I don't think it will be determined until we get to the game. 

 Q. Talking about Big Ten unity as you've done all along. Is it possible that you've talked to John Beilein down the road about his game plan against Connecticut, and given some ideas about how he was able to come so close to beating them? 
 COACH IZZO: Well, I'm talking to a few Big Ten guys, sure. I'm going to give John a call, give Matt a call, and anybody else I can call to try to figure out how you can do that. I don't think there's any question that the Big East has been so good. And I know those guys stick together. 
 So hopefully I'll be able to get a little help from our Big Ten counterparts that have played them. And I think I will. I'll do that after I get out at least a little feel for myself for them so I know what they're talking about when I talked to them. 

 Q. Jim Calhoun just referred to you as a dear friend. Said he talks to you a lot during the season by phone. How would you characterize your friendship and relationship with Jim? 
 COACH IZZO: You know, I remember calling him back when we played him. I was so impressed. We had a good team. They were only sophomores, I think. And just went out there and we played pretty good the first half, and then they just took it to us in the second half. 
 You know, I've always appreciated guys that I think are demanding, are holding people accountable, and his team has played tough. I've always during the year a couple times he'll call me. I just look at it as I love the way his teams play. And I love the way he's developed players. 
 I mean there are so many of those guys who say God, where did he come from, you know? Didn't seem like he was on everybody's All American list, and he wasn't. He was just a player. He's a very good judge of talent, I think. 
 So all coaches in my kind of world, I try to learn from all of them. And he's one that's been successful. He's been to Final Fours. He's won championships in a very tough league. And he's done it over time. He's been consistent. I guess that's why I appreciate him. 
 I kind of like the fact, too, that he tells it like it is. He builds up his players. He'll also tell you if his player isn't playing good. And I kind of appreciate that. 

 Q. As you look back on on your head coaching career back there, how pivotal was it for you to have the succession and place from Judd in the mid '90s? 
 COACH IZZO: Well, Judd coached everything to me. I've learned from a lot of coaches. I've been in the league with Bobby Knight, and Gene Keady, and so many good coaches here. Back when I was an assistant in my early years as a Head Coach. 
 But nobody had the impact that Judd had on me. I learned so many things from him. And maybe some of the best are important this week: Dealing with the media, how to handle them, understand and respecting that everybody's got a job to do. 
 But probably most of all the work ethic he always had. And the fact that he never asked me as an assistant to do anything more than he would do as the Head Coach. I still try to be a Head Coach that acts like an assistant. I still try to treat my assistants like he treated me. That's why I've had some guys move on. I appreciate what they can do. 
 So Judd has meant the world to Michigan State basketball. But he's even meant more to me, because if not for him, I definitely wouldn't have been the Head Coach at Michigan State. 

 Q. I think a lot of people projected that by March you might have a case of momentum going here as you've got people healthy. You've got ray mar finally over illness. Picked up a little steam, that kind of thing. Has that been the script? Not on to say that you played with any degree of imperfection, but do you finally see the cylinders clicking on all fronts? 
 COACH IZZO: I heard an interview with Jay Wright from Villanova the other day. He said it sounds crazy, but I think my team's getting better at the end of the year. I laughed because as you just stated, I've been saying that for a while. 
 And as I say that, Raymar struggled a little bit in the last couple of games. He's just a little worn out from the long season after the two surgeries and all the rehab. It's been incredible what he's gone through. But he struggled a little bit lately. And now Raymar breaks his nose. And after coming back and playing pretty well in some games, he struggled a little bit lately. But I still know how good he is. And I still think he could be one of the surprise players in this tournament. I thought that last week, and it didn't happen. He had some foul trouble and the broken nose. But I still have a lot of faith in Ray. 
 I thought as this team got healthy, you know, and we had a chance to be beat a very good team. In some ways we're getting even better than thought, and I still think we have room to improve. It's too bad we're running out of time. But what a better time to improve at the end of the year. 

 Q. I know that you've been asked this by other members of the media, but as this particular journey been for you anymore gratifying than the earlier four? 
 COACH IZZO: I'm not sure there's ever one that's more gratifying than the first. Because you know, anything that happens for the first time, it's like your first kiss. You still remember it, right? That was gratifying. 
 Then to go back to a Final Four when Cleaves and Peterson could have left early, you know, that was. And the next year made it special with three. 
 I think in 2005 when we went back it was like can you get back after the Cleaves era. We did that. But who is kidding who, you know? There's been one or on two times in the last 35 years that a team had a chance to play in a Final Four in its home state. Especially with all the economy issues and all the things we've gone through. 
 We've always stated our team's a blue-collar team ever since I came here. And there's no better blue collar city than Detroit and all the things they go through. 
 So it was a little more special than normal. Travis Walton wanting to be not the first senior class that stayed four years and then go to the Final Four. There were a lot of story lines in that. They were all good ones. Who knows where we can take it from here, but it's been a heck of a journey, and I'm hoping we still have a couple of games left. 

 Q. How are you going to keep your team focused with it being played in your home state? I think back to the palace in the Flintstone era. How did you keep that team focused? Are you going to do the same thing with this team so they aren't distracted by the local friends and family and everything? 
 COACH IZZO: We did talk about it last night once we got back that it was going to be hard. And tickets, it sounds crazy, but I think there's a lot less tickets now than there were when we went in 2005. I don't know why, but the way it's handed out is less tickets go to each school than there used to be. That will be a problem. 
 But I think that's where the players' maturity has to come in. There there's no question that the Peterson era and that game down there, I wasn't worried about distractions. They had their mindset on what they wanted to accomplish. This team's a lot younger in a lot of different ways. So I'll probably deal with it more. 
 But I think we've had enough that we've gone through this year where they know outside distractions and injuries, and all the things that played such a part in the season. I think they understand now that they've got to be focused. Yet none of them are going to be ready for the media blitz or the things that go on in the Final Four. 
 I'm thinking over-the-air next couple of days they'll have the experience to go through it. I'm going to have to subtly explain how different it is, and make sure we get a lot of work done here, because once you get to Detroit Wednesday or Thursday, it gets to be a little bit of a crazy atmosphere. You've got to make sure you have your work done before you get there. 

 Q. You have three coaches who have won it all, and Jay Wright from Villanova is the rookie Final Four coach. Could you talk a little about what getting to the Final Four does for a coach's resume, reputation, and in a more practical sense for recruiting? And when you have one, what that means to a coach's overall sort of body of work? 
 COACH IZZO: Well, I think Jay has been undergo tutelage. He had Rollie for a while. And Jay has done a great job in his own right pun on words. I've always enjoyed watching his teams. They beat us up in the Alaskan Shootout early in his career. I thought he did a great job then. 
 As far as getting to the Final Four, the biggest advantage is the next time you get there you don't do your tickets Friday night the day before the game. You get more organized earlier in the week. And you understand how to handle all the things that go on with the Final Four week. 
 Does it change your resume? You know, maybe in the coach's -- other coaches minds. I don't think as a coach yourself you feel any different once you get the one you want to get to. And now you realize how much fun and exciting. And you want your players to share in that experience. 
 I love Jay's team this year. They play hard. I got a chance to be around them this summer when we were preparing for one of the USA teams that he coached. And Reynolds, and I got a chance to get closer to him and see him in action. And I just love how hard they play. 
 And the game the other night was one of the games of the era as far as two teams playing. So I think Jay will be in a few more Final Fours before his career is over. He's done an incredible job there. And he's a good guy. Sometimes it's a hard combination these days. 

 Q. I wondered after you played Carolina in Ford Field. Lot of people figured they'd be back this weekend because they were looking so good. But coming out of that game did you feel like your team had it in them to make it back? 
 COACH IZZO: I should straighten that out. Who knows if we can beat UCONN, who knows what happens. But if we have to play Carolina again, they might beat us by 30 again. But in that setting, that day to use every excuse we can. We came off our Florida trip. Played three games down there, we did not have Suton, did not have Delvon Roe much, and we didn't play good, and they played very good. 
 But I did not look at that game in any way, shape and form in looking at how we are. How they are, I look at it all the time, because I think they're that good. But I think we're a lot better. We were a lot better then, we just didn't play better that night for various reasons. 
 That is not something I'd lose sleep over every night, I can promise you that. That doesn't mean if we met again, the outcome -- they're a very talented, good, experienced, deep team. But I think we're a lot better team. When people say, How can Michigan State get to a Final Four? They lost by 30 to North Carolina. I don't look at it that way. 
 I mean, Wright is a great coach, a great team. But that night I remember him saying to me after you looked like you had no legs the second half. And I would have had to agree with him. It was partially because we had some injuries, partially a guy didn't play, and partially the road trip. 
 And maybe the most important one was they were awfully good that night and deserved everything they got. But I think we would be better and will be better if given that opportunity again. 

 Q. Your schedule was pretty tough in the non-conference, too. Do you feel that paid you some dividends over-the-air last couple of weeks? 
 COACH IZZO: I really do. What we did this year different than other years we've always played a tough schedule. This year, we had Oklahoma State, and Maryland early. And then we had North Carolina and Texas, and Kansas. That was good. 
 But I think we played on the road a lot more this year in the non-conference. And I think that maybe attributed to our success going 8-1 in the world in the Big Ten. So who knows. If they work for you, you say they were positive. If they work against you, you say they were negative. 
 But I do think we became a closer and tougher team, and we had to become a tougher team. So I'd say the way we played the last two weeks, yeah, I think it helped us some is, I really do. 

 Q. You've talked about Goran Suton's development. And I know he had to overcome injury this year, but what specifically did he improve upon as far as his skill set or his understanding or physicality? What was the most important part of that? 
 COACH IZZO: Well, it wasn't skill set and it wasn't understanding. Those are two of his biggest strengths, as far as he is a skilled player. What he improved on is his shooting and his body. He became stronger, more muscle tone. Not a great athlete as far as a leaper, but he is a great athlete as far as timing and things like that. 
 But he really improved his shooting this summer. I think he fell in love with the game, finally. It took a while, but he did. He worked so hard on it. 
 When he had the knee problems at the end of August and most of September and he came back a little bit. Then it went out again in early November, that was hard because he kind of lost our whole preseason. Not only to games, but his conditioning. And they had to reinvent the shot that he had worked so hard to develop. 
 But to his credit, he's kept working on it. He has a great understanding of the game and has improved his shooting. I think that's why he's a better player.

 Q. What did he change as far as his shot? 
 COACH IZZO: Well, he spent time on it. It wasn't broken, it wasn't like it was some shot that had to be redesigned. It's just again falling in love with the game, means you spend hours on your shooting. And we've had guys here that did that. 
 Jason Richardson used to wear out the shooting machines. And Goran improved a lot. He lost some of it when he was out for those six to eight weeks, more or less.

 Q. Seasons and teams will develop an identity over the course of said season. And obviously there is a psychological part knowing when to pat them on the back and kick them in the rear end. Have you noticed that in the end you assess teams and say this is sort of what they were. And was this year's team more pat or more kicking? 
 COACH IZZO: That's interesting. Usually by this time of the year you have a good feel about your team. It was the end of February, and I was still trying to find my team. And I think that was because of the different major injuries to three different guys. 
 And they were all guys that were in my starting group, so, you know, I think for the most part there was a little more patting on the back. They probably wouldn't agree with that. And I say that because we were young and I said a million times, I little more fragile. We had key people out with Suton and Roe, and, of course, Raymar Morgan late in the season. Yet it's been a team that's developed better leadership skills. 
 I've always stated that a player-coached team is better than a coach-coached team. And I think Walton did a great job. We started getting more from Suton, and from Lucas, and I think that really made it a lot easier for a coach. 
 And I think everybody would agree when you look at this Final Four, there are some veterans on every team, you look at Carolina who has not only veterans, but a little like we had when Cleaves and Peterson was here. Guys could come out early, came back to win a championship, and that's what you've got to appreciate about those guys. They gave up something to win a championship. Now they have a chance to do it. And so that's pretty neat when that happens.
 DAVID WORLOCK: Thank you, coach Izzo. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT