MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 17, 2007
Tom Izzo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		   COACH IZZO:  I guess the first thing we'll change this year is our style of play after being forced to slow it down last year.  I'm pretty determined to run from the day that we started, which we did.  And look back to getting to the point where this team's scoring a lot of points. 
  The key will be will we retain the commitment to our defense that we had last year.  It was incredible when you look at some of the, not records we set, but when you look at our defense as the lowest since '58, '59 in field goal percentage.  It's been very low in scoring defense, I think the lowest in the '50s also. 
 We led the Big Ten in rebounding again, I think that's 8 of the last 10 years.  So now if we can add this offensive fire power between guys that have gotten better, like Marquise and Raymar, two guys that are coming in like all four of our freshmen, right now.  Shooting is one of their strengths.  I didn't think it would be that way for Durrell, but he has become, and is becoming a much, much better shooter. 
 This year's team, you know, is going to be different.  We're going to mix in something we haven't had in a long time.  We're going to mix in a strong veteran class, especially with Drew and Drew and we got those three other big guys Marquise, I.D. and Goran, and Travis also being a guy with a lot of years of experience.  I think he started every game last year.  You put that with the fact that we've got new, exciting athletic freshmen, I think it's going to be a good mix. 
 The freshmen guards have somebody to learn from.  It seems whenever we've had freshmen like when Alan Anderson and Hill came in, we had nobody for them to learn from.  It did help Shannon and Maurice when they had somebody to learn from.  And I think this is going to be great, because Travis has been unbelievable.  He and Drew, and even Raymar on helping our young guys kind of grow faster, because we're going to play them. 
 We're going to play them, we're going to play them early, they're going to be in the group right away.  And because of that, they're going to make some mistakes.  So the more we can do in the preseason here before we get started and the more advice they can get, the better it's going to help. 
 I would say with Travis Walton is growing into one of our best leaders that we've had here, and definitely in the mold of a Mateen Cleaves, that's not afraid to hear his voice.  Not afraid to tell his teammates, not afraid to get after his friends, and backs it up by how he works himself. 
 But as I've always said, I'm not really enthralled by guys that are just leaders by example.  I'm looking for guys that are leaders by dragging other people with them.  He is one of those and could be one of the best we've ever had. 
 Y'all know we return 90% of everything.  Whether it's our rebounding or minute's played or scoring.  So we have a lot back.  Don't totally be fooled by that.  We were not a great team last year.  I think we were a good team that a lot of things fell together and we really, I thought our players did a good job, the chemistry, the defense, the percentage shooting, knowing their roles.  You know, setting good screens for people.  Got people the right shots, and we ended up being maybe a very, very good team, but not as talented a team as we've had here in the past. 
 So, we've still got some work to do this year, as far as making sure that those two things come together now. 
 We're going to have more depth.  We had no depth last year, especially with the injuries.  We're going to have more talent.  And whether those talented freshmen can learn to guard somebody, that's what the next two or three weeks is for.  And if they do, you know, we could really be a very good team. 
 We have been affected by some injuries in the off-season.  You know, Neitzel had the shin, and he missed probably a month early and a month late.  And Morgan had a little bit of that.  Missed maybe a month after his thing and after his U.S.A. basketball endeavors. 
 Walton had the stomach muscle and didn't miss two months after having a great, great, great spring.  Of course I.D. with the elbow has recovered very well.  There's going to be more people fighting for minutes.  Yet as we sit here and everybody asks how are you going to play this guy, and how are you going to play that guy, every year, you know, something happens in some way, shape or form.  And I think having depth is going to be the key. 
 You know, in 2005, we didn't have a single player play more than 30 minutes.  As I look at the top 10, top 20 programs in a couple of my recruiting trips this year, the best players were playing 31, 32 minutes a game, you know.  In the conference alone, I think between Neitzel and Walton, they probably averaged 38-39 minutes.  That's not good for them, not good for us.  It's not good for the team. 
 In 2005 we averaged 78.5 points a game.  If this team can stick with its defensive philosophy last year, with the offensive output, I think we should have.  That would make us a great combination.  That's where you should be strong on both ends of the court.  Both sides of the ball. 
 I think we have a chance to do both those things this year, if we really buy into it.  Now we've got a lot of work to do to buy into it.  Because those freshmen, there's not been a freshman that's ever come here, than maybe Walton and Cleaves, that could check anybody.  And that's just a prerequisite for being a freshman.  This group hasn't wrecked that image or the way I think about it, that's for sure. 
 Last year, you know, a lot of great things happened to us.  Not only did we have a good year, and we weren't expected to.  But you know, the ESPN statement which is just choosing, picking - and they could have picked a lot of teams - but putting us in that position and having some valid reasons why that even I didn't think about, I think, gives us something to feel good about. 
 But as I said before, I said after a third year, let's see where we are in the next eight, nine, ten years.  Now let's figure out what we're going to do for the next ten.  And that's really, really, really where my sights are set right now.  How can we get this thing and get the championships back?  And how can we be constantly knocking on the door of late runs in the tournament?  And that's going to be something to do. 
 I look back and Matt looked back for me, you know, and I still say that we've done something that only a few schools around the country have done.  In those ten years, we've played 32 ranked teams in a non-conference.  Whereas Vitale says a lot of people are playing Cupcake U, and I'm still not sure. 
 At times I fight myself on what is good, and what is bad.  And moderation's probably the best.  But I think that sticks with the theory we said my first two years - we'll play anybody any place, any time, and we've kind of done that. 
 One stat that Matt came up with that I was surprised, we played 24 of the 28 Final Four teams.  And that's scheduling a lot of people.  The sellouts that we've had here, the graduation rate, those are all part of building the program, not the team.  I'm still proud of that. 
 But all that being said, as I said, that was in the past.  I don't want to eliminate it.  I want to build on it and grow from it.  But I want to talk about it, because it's what we've done, and I'm looking for what we're going to do.  And that's where the future comes in here, and that's what the players have to realize. 
 I think it's hard for players to live up to somebody else's image like it was for Hill and Torvald to look up to the three Final Fours.  But it's time for people to start setting their own footprint in the stand as we've said.  And it's time for people to figure out what they can add to their legacy here and our legacy as a basketball program. 
 I look at our players, and I'll go through them one by one, because I think that's what you want.  And Neitzel, I'm pleased, he's been a consensus All American in most of the magazines, a candidate anyway.  He's played more minutes than just about anybody back since Steve Smith as far as consecutive minutes and games.  And I think his minutes will decrease, so everybody knows, in fact, I know they will.  But that's a good thing, not a bad thing. 
 As we saw at North Carolina and some other games during the year, he has an ability.  He's in great condition.  He can suck it up, but there have been some games he wasn't as sharp the first half, and he was better the second half. 
 I think you get into a position where you try to save yourself.  And I don't know if you do it consciously, but subconsciously you do.  And he's going to go all out because we're going to have people to give him a breather. 
 As a freshman, we know he started on the Final Four teams.  So he has experience going the distance and getting to the Final Four.  He is the leading Big Ten returning scorer.  I don't see that changing.  He did that taking a lot of shots.  He did not take as many shots as a lot of the leading scorers would take.  So I feel very comfortable that the work he's done in the off-season, the weight he's gained, which has been 15 pounds of good weight. 
 The time off he -- I forced him to take off a month after the season.  The time off he's had has been good for him.  Playing with Jay on the U.S. team was good for him.  He'll be getting different attention this year because he won't be coming out of nowhere, but I like the chances of him having a banner year. 
 And Travis, you've still got our glue and guts guy.  You have maybe one of the best leaders.  He's not afraid of anything or anybody.  He's gotten a few big preseason Big Ten nominations.  He was the only guy last year that did start in every game, so he is durable even though he was injured this summer.  He's durable.  He's been a guy that hasn't turned the ball over, which is one thing this team will improve on if we're going to get better.  We've turned the ball over more than I'd like or more than a disciplined team should do. 
 And Raymar Morgan, he too is gaining a lot of preseason hype.  I think playing on the U.S.A. team that he played on for Jerry, it was good for him.  It got him some recognition.  Got him on Dick Vitale's Rolls Royce team.  But more importantly he's considered one of the ten better players in this league in most people's minds.  And I think he is at that point.  I think he's improved his shooting a lot.  He's more comfortable on the perimeter. 
 I think this year we'll do both with him.  We'll post him up some, and have him on the perimeter.  He's running the court better than I've seen him, and shooting the ball better than I've seen him.  I think there will be times when we'll have options like we didn't have last year.  Where we can play Raymar in the four, and go small.  We could never do that last year because we didn't have enough bodies. 
 So I think Raymar continues to improve and on that power forward center that he played in high school, and maybe if there's things he can work on and become even a better rebounder.  He averaged over a five a game last year.  I think he's a kid who can get up there in the high 7's, and he could be one of the better offensive rebounders.  I thought he was going to be last year. 
 The injury hurt a little bit, but I also think the adjustment of playing outside the whole time compared to playing inside and outside probably was one that he didn't handle the best in that way.  But I've been very, very, very pleased with Raymar Morgan's progress so far. 
 Marquise Gray, you know, he too has gotten a few of the, I guess, early season nominations on some things.  He and Suton are two of our key people.  I know what I'm going to get out of a lot of these guys.  I know what I think I can get out of those two. 
 Gray is still one of the better athletes on our team.  He's improved his shooting.  I think this will be a good shooting team.  It is whether his conditioning, which I'm not totally satisfied yet, whether that gets better whether he plays pretty good "D".  He rebounds pretty well until he gets tired.  That will be the key with him.  Should be something we have control over.  He's made some definite progress. 
 It was his first summer where he was healthy the whole summer, and I think that helped him especially in his shooting.  And he'll be a big key this year, there is no question. 
 In Suton, he was ranked sixth in rebounding last year.  For a guy that didn't play as many minutes as some of the other guys.  He doesn't have the athletic ability some of the guys do.  But he has the typical European approach to things.  He has very good skills.  He does have a nose for the ball.  He does have a great understanding of the game.  And I've been waiting, because I think he could step it up two notches. 
 I think he's a good enough shooter that he could be a pick and pop foreman for us.  I think he has post moves that he can do some things there.  He understands the game, he passes well.  I think he could be very good in that role.  And I think those two guys could determine whether we go from maybe good, to maybe great, to maybe real, real good. 
 In Naymick, he's pursuing his Ph.D.  Should be illegal that I'm coaching a guy that is pursuing his Ph.D.  in finance.  That is unbelievable when you think about it.  An incredible student. 
 Matt found a couple of stats that are amazing on him.  He's ranked sixth in the history of our school with career blocked shots at 74.  That speaks loud of him because he probably didn't play as many minutes.  Probably a little poor on us as good of a shot blocking team we've been over the years of basketball.  I'm sure they weren't taking stats way back when.  But it is pretty good.  He needs 24 to set a school record, and he's a guy that could get that. 
 He is a good shot blocker.  He is a good rebounder.  He's a very good defender.  What he is is a good 15-foot shooter, what he has to improve on is his post game.  What I'm really looking for him to improve on is maybe a little bit better recognition skills, and a little bit less robotic.  But he has had a good summer, an injury-free summer.  I say that because most of those big guys have had a lot of injuries, and I think could help. 
 And I.D., 33 block shots last year, was the seventh best in the history of our school.  You know how many minutes I.D. played.  I think he averaged 8 or 9 minutes a game.  If he can do that, that's great for him and a little poor for our school. 
 So we have to figure out which way we feel on that, glass half full or glass half empty.  But I look at it like he has tremendous shot-blocking ability.  He has a place on this team to play.  He had to get better at catching the ball which he's done a lot better.  Offensively, still a little behind.  But free throw shooting, it's much improved.  I think he's taken some steps in that area. 
 In Dahlman, I'll try to rattle through these.  In Dahlman, he has gained 20 pounds now.  He's up to 195 which I think was one thing had he to do.  He is much stronger, and he's shooting the ball better.  To get more aggressive, because he has very good ball skills.  He can go right, he can go left.  He has good ball skills.  He just needs strength and toughness. 
 The same with Herzog who has gained 20 pounds but needs another 20.  But he's been one of the more athletic guys for the big men.  He can run, he can jump.  He is long, and he has pretty good offensive skills.  Strength has been a factor for him.  It's going to be a factor.  Hopefully he'll keep growing and building this year.  But that's the area he has to improve on. 
 That leaves our four freshmen and our walk-on.  I'll start with our walk-on Mike Kebler.  He's a local kid from Okemos.  And his strength is he can shoot the ball.  And I don't know what will be his immediate future, but he is a guy in practice that's going to help us because he can shoot the ball and he competes. 
  And Austin Thornton, probably the toughest of the bunch.  He's got great toughness, very aggressive, and improved his 16-17 into the shot that he was very good at, and now he's gained some range on it.  I have been impressed with all of the freshmen shooting the ball. 
 Durrell Summers is my poor man's Jason Richardson.  He is an improving shooter.  I thought it would be a weakness, but in the midnight deal, he shot the lights out and he shot the ball pretty well so far in practice.  He must improve his defense.  Because when you're a 2 and 3 man in this league you're going to be guarding some of the best players in the country. 
 And he's athletic enough to.  He's just got to put his mind to it, and maybe understand it a little better.  And I think he's working on it. 
 Chris Allen, I think, will be the best shooter on the team.  I think he's one of the best shooters we've had since Shawn Respert.  That's putting a lot on his shoulders, but I believe he's worthy of that.  He has range, he has a picture-perfect shot.  He get it's off the same way every time.  He has very good ball skills.  In a pinch, he could have played some points and done some things.  So he's kind of a three-dimensional guy that can play three different positions. 
 He too, though, must improve his defense.  He's getting a little stronger, that would help him.  And just at times he really does get after it, and he's done a pretty good job at that. 
 And then Kalin Lucas, last but not least, I think he's the quickest I've ever coached.  And that ranks up there with the Sam Vincent who I thought was a jet.  Kid could get the ball from one end to the other as good as any guard we've had since I've been here.  He pushes it well.  He has good skills, he can use his left-hand, he can use his right-hand. 
 And he has been a shot at even better than I thought he could from 3.  And has found people in the open court.  The break is tailer made for him, because he can really distribute it, and really make some good decisions. 
 The biggest problem with him will be he's so quick that staying under control and maybe understanding when to pull it out, because a lot of times he's getting down there before the other players do.  And he must improve on his mid range.  He can get in the lane better than anybody I've ever seen, now he has to make that shot.  And that's going to take some repetition and time. 
 And I guess all in all, the best comment I could give before I open it up to some questions is I came back in the summer after recruiting, and I was here a couple of weeks.  Neitzel said to me, Coach, I've got to talk to you.  I said, Okay.  He said, I just want you to know I've been off for two weeks.  I said, I know.  He said, So I've watched every workout, watched the guys workout, watched them play.  And he says, You know what, every guy has gotten better.  He says there's not a lot of years I could say that.  Every guy's gotten better. 
 Take our worst player and our best player, and in my mind, every guy's gotten better.  And that was a great comment.  And it was a comment, as you know, we're not allowed to even see that, so I had to take his word for it.  But it was an unsolicited statement, and one that I felt pretty good about. 
 Since now we've been practicing, we were allowed to have the two hours the first couple of weeks, and now we're at full go.  I do think every guy's improved.  Some not to the level I'd like them to or need them to, but we've made some progress.  And if we really bear down in the next two or three weeks, I think this team could take a big step before this season starts. 
 I'll close by saying I think the schedule is deceivingly very good.  You know, it's not the Duke-Kentucky-Kansas schedule, of course.  But you've got to go on the road to BYU, you're going to Bradley.  You've got Texas.  You've got Carolina State.  And the chance of having UCLA and Missouri or a Maryland that leaves for a lot of pretty good games.  And I think a pretty entertaining non-conference part. 
 In the league, I think Indiana might be the cream of the crop.  They've got a lot of guys back, but the addition to the things they have that's different, the addition of Gordon, one of the premier guards in the country.  And they maybe have one of the only legitimate, proven, inside post players that can score in there.  And he had a heck of a summer on the U.S.A. team in D.J. White. 
 So, you know, I think a lot of people picking them one.  And I would agree with it publicly and disagree with my team, maybe.  But they're very worthy of that.  And I think there will be some great games. 
 I think Illinois is a little bit unknown depending on their injuries and who is going to play.  I think Ohio State is a very good team.  I thought last year you'd see a lot of improvement out of Penn State.  I still think if they stay injury free, they'll improve. 
 I think Purdue is going to take a step towards where they're going to be in the next couple of years.  They have a great recruiting class. 
 And Wisconsin with their system is always good.  And you have the unknowns, what Iowa, Minnesota, and Michigan will be because of their new coaches and that.  But it will be a different look and a different challenge.  I think we've added three very good coaches to this league, and it's going to make the league all the better. 
 So, questions? 

 Q.  (No Microphone)? 
 COACH IZZO:  It should have an effect on the number of points.  It should never affect on field goal percentage.  It shouldn't have an affect on some of the rebounding and things like that.  It definitely should have an affect on points, because I think we're going to be taking more shots.  Getting the ball up quicker. 
 But that is the million dollar question.  I think that is it.  Drew became a pretty good defensive player last year.  And those freshmen, you know, that is a lot to ask a freshman to become very good defensively.  But for this team to be great, I think that's going to have to happen. 
 And I did see that on more than one occasion last year.  And I'm sure 90% of you agree.  We just did not have the athletes and, you know, the different things you need to be a good defensive team, and yet we became one. 
 We were probably the consummate team last year.  If you look at offensively, we did the things you have to do to be a team.  If you look defensively, we didn't extend, we played within ourselves and guys helped each other.  We were probably one of the more consummate teams that I've had as far as everybody doing their job and what they can do. 

 Q.  (No Microphone)? 
 COACH IZZO:  Yeah, we're definitely going to extend it a little bit, you know.  And just so Larry doesn't get his way, it will be pressuring, not pressing.  But I do believe that will be part of our style, to wear us down and wear the opponent down.  And try to create a more up-tempo system in a way.  And try to use what we have this year, which is more than we had last year. 

 Q.  In the Final Four, you said a program couldn't be elite until it had played 10, 12 years.  Six years after that you have the number one ranking on ESPN.  Are you going to enter this season (No Microphone)? 
 COACH IZZO:  Oh, Geez (laughing).  How do you spell that one word, I got to figure it out.  Yeah, you know, I think we've earned the right as a program, and I did like the way they did the article, because I don't think we've earned the right just as a basketball team.  But when you look at our program, our facilities, our academics, when you look at all the things that a program should do, yeah, I'm going to say that this team has earned, doesn't deserve, but has earned the right to be, you know, one of the 10, 12 teams around the country that has sustained something for more than a little bit of time. 
 But, as I said earlier, that was a nice thing to put on, you know, save the article and put it up and feel good about it for the first ten years.  Now let's see what we do in the next ten years.  Let's see if, you know, we have some pretty good freshmen.  We have potentially a good recruiting class coming in. 
 I mean, this would be a good time now to see can we move forward, and including myself, and not forget those great guys that we've had, but realize, you know, they built their part of the wing, and maybe with the new locker room and things that these guys are going to build, you know, their side of it.  So that's what I plan on doing is carrying this forward and seeing if we can, you know, do something. 
 As I said once, John Wooden said, you know, you're one of 40 at the time.  And as a school we're 1 of 10, 11 or 12 that have won two.  You know, if you could win another national championship, the group that you're in shrinks.  And that's good news in coaching, so that will be the goal. 

 Q.  (No Microphone) how deep can you go?  How many players can you go? 
 COACH IZZO:  You can go ten.  It's harder to go much more than ten.  I don't think.  Nine's pretty normal.  But that's saying nobody gets injured, there are no problems, which hasn't happened one time in my whole career.  So I think that's just something you've got to -- you don't plan on.  But you realistically know it's probably going to happen.  So because of that, I think we have spots to do that. 
 And I do think rotating some guys around and, I guess the good news is, you know, somebody's going to be left out, but that's the way life is.  You know, I mean, you earn what you get.  And I don't think a coach will be making that decision.  I think the players will be making that decision.  You know, there is supposed to be competition. 
 If we are an elite program, there better be competition.  Because all the other elite sports in every program there is competition.  I don't think that's a bad thing.  What's been cool is I don't think our players look at it as a bad thing.  I've been pleased how Durrell and Kalin, and Chris and Austin have kind of looked up to Drew and Travis.  I've been really pleased how Drew and Travis have totally taken those guys under their wing. 
 I mean, the jealousy, somebody's going to take somebody's minutes there.  There's been absolutely none of.  When the game starts, that's going to be another thing to watch.  For you and me, but I don't see it.  I don't see it happening.  I see nothing but good coming out of that. 

 Q.  (No Microphone)? 
 COACH IZZO:  I'm going to keep my job until tomorrow.  I mean, you've got to remember five football coaches, five AD's here in my 12 years.  I say that with all sincerity.  I looked around the country this year how many programs changed for the better, how many changed for the worst.  How many were great, and now are on the downhill?  How many were poor and are on the uphill?  So I think every year, every day is a new day.  I hope I keep approaching it that way. 
 I guess, the best thing for me to say is I'll never -- I hope I'll never coach a day longer than I have the same passion to do it.  And the same energy to recruit the same way and spend the same amount of hours.  I think when you start figuring out how you can cheat hours here and cheat hours there, and I could do this and that, I'm not sure that's good. 
 And so, I don't know, you know.  That's one thing I'm going to try to do this year is store, not forget about, not put aside what we've done, store it so I can go back to and use it when I need to and yet not look too much to the future.  Deal with these couple of years, and do it in recruiting, and do it in basketball, do it in facilities, and do it with alumni.  Do it with football, and do it with our AD and everybody else.  And see if we can make this place a special place.  And however that long that takes me, and however long they let me stay, only time will tell. 

 Q.  (No Microphone) given the nature of freshmen, their unpredictability.  You never know until you go.  And so much hinges on that? 
 COACH IZZO:  Yeah, it weighs a little bit.  It's not a great schedule for that.  You know, the problem when you play in these non-conference tournaments, and when you play, because of finals here and everything you're really putting so many great games into those first two and a half weeks.  When you're going on the road for, you know, two of them, you're going neutral sites for three of them.  Maybe.  That's tough for freshmen. 
 You know, we're going to take some lumps, probably early because I'm going to play them.  And yet I like the way they've worked.  I've liked the way they've listened and learned.  And I like their attitude on, you know, the non-jealousy of other people.  That means they're more mature than I, you know, than maybe most freshmen. 
 But at the same time you hit the nail on the head.  They're going to be freshmen, they're going to make mistakes.  I've got to keep reminding myself of that.  Because when you watch them play, they have some talent that guys -- there is talent that some guys maybe we've had in ways. 
 You have three guys that have pretty good ball skills.  You have three guys that, even if they miss a shot, it looks like it's going in.  You have three guys that have phenomenal athletic ability.  Phenomenal athletic ability.  And those are all pluses.  If we coach them right and they continue to improve right, those three kids have a chance to do some special things here. 
 And then Austin Thornton, I have to leave -- not to leave him out, because when you watch him, he's just everywhere.  I told Bograkos, he's Tim Bograkos with skills.  He's got more passing and he's got to work on his ball handling, but it's tough as a rock.  Man, he's tough, and he's bigger.  He's 6'4", 6'5", and he can shoot it. 
 So I think they've all got something, and yet they're going to be frustrating at times to probably me, you, and a lot of other people out there.  But I like the demeanor, I like the attitude. 

 Q.  You're coming into a season with high expectations.  Have you maybe cracked down on the team and pushed that as much as possible? 
 COACH IZZO:  You know, I think we should be at the point here where somebody said, you know, if you have to talk to your kids about it.  I'm hoping and thinking that's why they came.  I'm sure they're not going to know how to handle a big media day like this, or the things that are new territory for them. 
 But I'm hoping they came here expecting to be a 1, 2 or 3 team in the Big Ten.  Top 10 or 15 team in the country.  You know, a team that has a chance to make a long run.  A team that's ready to play great teams and competition's going to be good.  I'm hoping that's why they came.  If it is, it makes it a little bit easier. 
 I haven't downplayed anything.  What I've tried to do in the little time that we've had so far, I've tried to really pick up the running.  Pick up some of the full-court pressure.  I've tried to really harp on the turnovers.  I don't think I did a very good job in that area. 
 We just, we turned the ball over too much.  Like penalties, you know, just fouls.  It is an undisciplined part of the game that I have to do a better job addressing.  And that I've really harped on to the point of you might see more running in practice than for right now, because if we turn it over, we're hitting the road.  And we're going to do that for a while, so that I'm making a bigger point of. 
 But the defensive lapses, I'm going to make a big point.  I told my team, and I think I told you guys last year our bigs have improved before we take another step.  We're going to have to adjust from going from a team that can sneak up on people, to a team that's going to have a bullseye on your back.  How our players handle that will be important. 
 We're going to have to adjust to a plain 9 and 10 people, because we're going to do it.  Those will be the big keys on whether we have a great team or just a good team. 

 Q.  (No Microphone)? 
 COACH IZZO:  You know, some of it is just maturity.  I mean Travis was cut all the time.  But Drew he worked on gaining weight.  He drank malts, and all this stuff you're supposed to do.  I think God said he's a little runt, that's the way he's going to stay until he's 22, then he's going to grow a little bit, I don't know. 
 But he worked on the weights his whole career.  He did make more of a concerted effort a little bit.  But I think it's just the maturity.  I think the same thing's going to happen to Herzog.  He works so hard.  The guy eats like a horse.  I don't know if it's legal, but if it is, he'll probably come in here and eat the rest of that food, you know.  And yet doesn't gain enough weight.  Maybe we can find somebody in the media to help him with that area.  Or maybe we can find some people.  I didn't say any names, I said maybe we could find some. 
 But in all honesty, in all honesty, he really has worked at it.  I think sometimes it's not just what you do.  But Drew is, you know, when he went to those tryouts, a lot of NBA guys there said, Boy, he's a lot stronger.  And he's stronger physically, and I think he's strong mentally.  I think he's more confident than he was, and yet, he's not cocky.  He's still humble.  So those are good combination. 
 When you have two guys, one so talented, one such a grunt guy like Travis, and they're your models for those other kids and they're both leaders in good ways, what they do and what they say and who they try to drag with him, that's when you have a chance to have a good team.  But there are other factors. 

 Q.  Talking about the Big Ten schedule.  It looks pretty balanced.  I wondered if you could find someone to go through the mumbo-jumbo (No Microphone).  I think that not only the schedule, but the fact that winning a Big Ten title since '01, I think that's played a lot into it.  And also talk about the possibilities of facing the No. 1 teams? 
 COACH IZZO:  Well, as far as the schedule, I think we have three of our last four on the road against good teams, so that's not great.  But I do think it's a good schedule.  We had, like I said, I complained about it.  I did. 
 For three, four years we had the toughest schedule, and I think it was hard.  And now it's getting to be more even for everybody.  I'm sure a lot of people are sad that Wisconsin's not coming here.  We only play Michigan.  Ironically, we have those two teams, your rival team, and one that's become a big rivalry. 
 But I think the schedule, I really haven't looked at the other schedules.  That sometimes is important, who else do the contenders play?  I really haven't looked at that yet but I think the schedule is great.  And I think as far as UCLA, you know, we've got to win home games, and then I don't know what we've got to do whether we get there, if we get there. 
 I would say this about UCLA - Ben's a friend and an incredible coach.  But you talk about a team that's tough, a coach that's tough.  That might be one of the more physical, tough, demanding coaches in the country.  You know, he's got a lot of guys back, and he's got this love kid who is the real deal.  So with their guard play and that, I think they'll be deserving it. 
 Memphis, Kansas, North Carolina, I think they're all right now, maybe a notch above everybody.  I think those four teams have incredible talent.  NBA players depth, experience.  A little bit of everything, and they're probably everybody's preseason, 1 to 4, whatever he way they scramble them up, and deservedly so. 

 Q.  When you look at the schedule, what does Michigan need to do to protect the football? 
 COACH IZZO:  In ways I'd like to see it.  There's still a time I almost, getting more and more where I'd like to play everybody, because I think it can be so unfair for the balance of things.  But I think there are a lot of articles written lately of what I've read of who to schedule, and how to schedule, and what to schedule.  And does that matter?  The end and all those things.  There are so many factors. 
 I mean, I'd like to have a rivalry game, I'm sure Michigan would.  It's just the way it is.  But it's just kind of been accepted because we've done it before, and other teams are doing it.  The football model, I think is good.  But there's a lot of times like in football there's more than one rival, too.  I don't know how they've done that. 
 Seems that Michigan has played Ohio State and Michigan State every year, right?  They protect two?  That's why.  I learn something every day.  They protect two.  And that's got to become difficult.  But if you're protecting two every year, and they're two bad teams, that's going to be a big advantage for somebody on the other side that have coin. 

 Q.  (No Microphone)? 
 COACH IZZO:  You hope that part of it they learned when they were recruited.  And that's why they committed so early.  And you hope the summer opens their eyes. 
 Like I tell them, no matter how good a student you are, college is going to be harder than high school.  No matter how good a player you are, college is going to be harder than high school.  No matter how many times you were mad at your mom or dad for having a curfew, adjusting to not having a curfew is hard.  Fun, but hard.  And not having the same organization that you had daily. 
 They have a lot of adjustments to make in college.  And yet I'm not sure, I think it was a big adjustment Friday night.  Those freshmen were geeked to get out in front of people.  I think there will be a big one the first exhibition game.  But usually, couple big games in the start of the Big Ten is where you see where they are.  Are they ready to go?  Have they learned enough?  So I guess there is incremental spots that it grows to. 
 But at the same time maybe the real good ones, and we'll find out.  I was amazed how well Durrell played in front of people the other night.  I was amazed how well we shot it as freshmen in the hockey arena.  And is that a good sign or is that going to go up-and-down like you say, you know, consistency is the key to life and for sure, basketball teams. 
 So that's what we're going to preach to them, and see if we can keep them as consistent as we can keep them.  I think if you really wanted one day, maybe the first Big Ten game to see, you know, what they're like then.  When they've had a little time to adjust. 

 Q.  (No Microphone)? 
 COACH IZZO:  Great question to ask him.  I mean, he's in good, he's in good condition.  He's in better condition.  Not good enough for me, I'll be honest with you, And I don't think good enough for him. 
 So, you know, when you're allowed, I think coaches have to take responsibility for things.  I think players have to take responsibility for things.  You can't walk with a guy and hold his hand through everything. 
 I think for Marquise, and he really has improved in so many areas.  He's become a much better student.  He's become much better in a lot of areas.  But I'm not sure.  I think he sometimes fools himself on how good a shape he's in. 
 So in one way I'm saying he's a key player to this team.  He's a difference maker.  I know with those other guys he's a difference maker.  So I'm throwing it out at him, and I'm throwing it at him every day in practice.  So I'm not going to lie to you.  He's got to get in better shape.  And that is my job.  Now I can get my hands on him.  You know, the NCAA doesn't even let you look at him for seven months. 

 Q.  Can I follow that up? 
 COACH IZZO:  Sure. 

 Q.  What are you seeing from him so far? 
 COACH IZZO:  I think it's unfair to sum up his career, because I've said it a lot of times to media members or other people.  If a guy doesn't get a chance if a guy misses six months, seven months eight months one year from February till September can't work on his game, it's no different than any one of you missing a lot of time and not being as sharp. 
 As we've said a hundred times, players are made in the summer, and teams in the winter.  That kid has not had a fair shot, and that part has not been his fault.  He's had an okay career.  I just think he's a much, much better player, and I think he thinks he's a much, much better player.  I think the combination of him getting a little more serious about basketball, staying injury free, knock on wood, that he has.  And realizing that little parts of the game, getting in better shape, doing this, doing that, when you're an athlete, it really helps you.  And that's really going to help him. 
 I feel this way, I think he's going to get there.  I'm not doubting that.  But I don't think that had become a priority of his in the summer like I wanted it to be.  So we're paying for a bit of it now.  But now he's going to be a key player.  He's going to be a guy that hopefully plays. 

 Q.  (No Microphone)? 
 COACH IZZO:  He's great.  He always responds, he loves me. 

 Q.  (No Microphone)? 
 COACH IZZO:  Well, you know, and you're right.  And it's something to think about, and it's something to talk about.  And it is something that I've used with my team, and something I'm sure you'll use during the year, and rightfully so.  I don't mean that in a negative way. 
 I said when we won them, and when we didn't that our job was to be knocking on the door.  As you know, we've had one or two that came down to the last game and a couple of free throws. 
 The year we should have been just awful.  We were one game from winning it after we lost all those players.  We lost to Wisconsin, 10-point lead late.  We lost to Illinois, when Frankie hit that 30-footer.  And we got a couple of disappointing ones, if you ask me, including the one two years, three years, two years ago one year we were 13-3.  And we had that great run. 
 But the one year when we were 8-8 with a good team and had big games at home at the end.  And we lost Trent, and we had some excuses.  I think for the most part over the last five years, we've been knocking on doors.  Right there, as I said about getting to the Final Four. 
 Everybody says can you get to the Final Four?  I said I think we're good enough to get to a sweet 16, and are we lucky enough to move on?  And that is really the way it works.  It's a little that way with a conference championship.  And I shouldn't say it, but I will say it, some of that are those years, when you look back at the schedule, it made a swing on some things.  So we didn't play as good. 
 You know, I think what I learned that I'm trying to tell this team, when you're playing for championships you're allowed to have bad days.  I tell players this all the time.  You're even allowed to have a bad game.  But if you want to do that revery often, don't plan on winning a championship, okay.  That is the point I'm trying to get across to this team, without putting pressure that they've got to play perfect every night because they're not going to do that. 
 I can honestly say it's been addressed in our meetings.  I'm not happy with that fact either.  I'm really unhappy with it because I think a couple times we were right there to do it and didn't get it done.  On a team that's leading the nation in free-throw shooting.  Missing some free throws to win a game or ranked third one year and misses some free throws to win a game that would have won you the Big Ten Championship, it's hard to blame anybody.  It just happened. 
 So I'm going to try to do everything I can do, but make sure not to put all the pressure on that.  Worry about it game by game and figure that there is a process to winning one.  It's not just winning one. 

 Q.  (No Microphone)? 
 COACH IZZO:  You remember when you guys played a couple weeks ago?  A little bit above your level.  No, you know.  It was -- I mean, they just, Kalin has competed the best.  And Durrell and Chris have probably struggled the most.  Though Chris has made some strides lately.  And yet Durrell is the best athlete, and best athletic body of them all because he's long armed and he's long.  I think he's going to pick it up.  I'm not really worried about it. 
 I didn't overemphasize it, believe it or not, in the two hours of practice we've had together in the first four weeks.  If there's one area I can coach, it's that area.  We'll make them better defensively, because they're good athletes.  I still feel comfortable with that statement but right now, they have a ways to go right now. 

 Q.  (No Microphone)? 
 COACH IZZO:  I think they fit in really well.  We needed a knock-down shooter.  You needed somebody on the other side of Neitzel that could really knock shots down.  But what I've been more impressed with, he's got very good ball skills, and he's a pretty good passer. 
 So you guys saw us, we were not a very -- we were kind of a one-dimensional team.  We had a great shooter, and some guys that could do role things.  But it was kind of one guy could do this, one guy could do this.  We weren't very multi-dimensional with our players.  And I think we've added three guys that are multi-dimensional. 
 And Chris Allen might be the best of the multi-dimensional guys.  Can shoot it, can pass it, can handle it.  And I told him he's got a chance to be something special.  Because it is the letter of the law that if you're a great shooter, you know, you don't check many people.  And if he wants to be really special here, he can be a great shooter and could be a good defender and the way he passes. 
 The other thing he is, I don't think he was a great athlete when I watched him in high school.  I thought he was a good athlete.  He's starting to change.  So I think we've got three of the best quickness athletic guys that we've ever brought in here.  And now it's molding them into great basketball players. 
 But I think they have a chance.  They're all gym rats.  They all work on their game.  They're great guys.  I'm pleased.  I'm pleased with them. 

 Q.  (No Microphone)? 
 COACH IZZO:  They call him O.G., he's old school, you know.  He's old school.  And he knows me so well, and I think he knows how to deal with me and handle me.  You know, he knows when to be a good cop, when to be the bad cop. 
 Mike just has a toughness about him that, you know, I'll never forget when the team said to me, you know, you don't know where I'm from, you don't know what I'm all about, early on.  And I kind of had to answer it, you know, I don't.  I don't.  At that time I was a rookie, too, and I didn't.  Mike does.  He's been through it all -- Mike does.  He's been through it all.  You know, he's lived in Ypsilanti, Detroit, he's lived in Marquette, Michigan.  You talk about versatility?  That guy's got it cornerstoned.  He's as versatile as you can get. 
 But what I love about him, he's real.  What you see is what you get.  I think he's real to recruits.  He's real to players.  Yet, I think he's a demanding S.O.B., and that is fine with me. 

 Q.  (No Microphone)? 
 COACH IZZO:  I think a lot, you know.  I think maybe if we had to be there, if we had to maintain that same ability to execute if you watch film from last year, probably executed better than any year I've been here.  And, you know, now you've got to curb that into this group, and yet I'm hoping we don't have to execute as much.  Because I'm hoping we're scoring more on our break, and we don't get to the execution part, which you and I both know we will. 
 But I think it benefited us, because players understand that you need a screener.  You need a passer.  You need to pass it at the right time.  You need to use screens.  I mean, there's been no better player that I've ever had here that could come off a screen as quick.  Get his feet set as Neitzel does.  I mean Peterson was good at that, but he was bigger. 
 And now, if the other players, you know, we have film to show other players this is what you have to do.  If we ever get Chris Allen doing that from the way he shoot it's, and the range he shoots it at, and with his size.  I think we have a chance to make those young guys learn quicker because of what happened last year, and how we executed last year. 

 Q.  (No Microphone)? 
 COACH IZZO:  Well, he's a little bit more the boy next door, you know.  His legacy will be for all the kids that everybody said were too slow, too short, too this, and too that.  And maybe talk more about what they can't do instead of what they could do. 
 His other legacy should be if you can use both hands, you can take your game to another level.  I see Gus sitting back there, I bet he could name the players on one hand that he coached that could use both hands.  I bet you Judd could name the players that he coached that truly could use both hands.  I mean, this kid can truly use.  He's not great at one and good at another one, he's great at both. 
 And that should tell a lot of kids growing up that, you know, if you're not quite tall enough, and you're not quite quick enough, you know, like when you lose one of your senses, you know that the other one kind of picks up?  Well, he's a good example of a guy that might not have this and this, but he has this and this and he's going to go down as a guy that, like a lot of those other great player, the one common denominate tor, loves the game, works on the game around the clock.  And competes.  And he is a competitor. 
 I'm happy about the success he has, because I think he deserves it.  So legacy, I don't know.  This year will determine a lot of it.  Do we have a good year?  A great year?  I think it will determine a lot for his future. 
 I think Neitzel's one of those guys that to play at the next level, we have to have a good year, as dumb as that sounds.  We have to have a good year, because they're going to look, can he do that?  He can lead a team because he's going to play the point.  He'll play some point this year, but can he do those things?  So it is you kind of neat that his future is intwined in our future.  That's kind of good. 

 Q.  (No Microphone). 
 COACH IZZO:  Yeah, St. Deak.  I kind of like that guy right now.  And if both ringer, and those two running backs want to play for me.  I said to my team, you know, when I watch those two guys, I said just keep an eye on 30 and 23 when one is not in there, watch how the other one acts. 
 Don't be surprised if in the next two weeks I don't film that sideline.  Those guys are unbelievable how they pull for one another.  I use them as examples for my guys.  But you've got to like a guy like St. Deak, who sacks everybody, you know. 
 I can think of a few guys I'd like him to sack.  And maybe we can get bow that way or something.  But at this think, you know, I think for the most part, we'll probably stay with the guys we've got, because I think that program's getting to the point now -- though there's been a kid or two that we've both recruited, and that could happen again. 
 Curry, you know, I think has to spend as much time on his football, and hopefully take that to another level.  But there will be a recruit or two that we'll still try to play both ways in the next couple of years.  It's been fun to recruit with Mark.  It was a lot like nick where we almost recruited some guys together, and that's cool. 

 Q.  Coach, you talk about Dantonio rebuilding the football program, and the powerhouse.  Knowing about the basketball program.  (No Microphone)? 
 COACH IZZO:  I think it depends where you are.  Where you are, and what the recruiting area that you're recruiting in.  You know, when you look at Michigan, Ohio, Illinois, pretty good football and basketball areas.  But it just depends how that coach uses it. 
 I use football to recruit.  I try to get every freshman, sophomore and junior up here.  When they're having success, I mean, it's just better.  When you're a guy like campbell that comes over on the sideline and meets our guys before the game, you know, he's just kind of a he's got a demeanor where he can have his game face on and come over and be as classy as the day is long. 
 That's why it's a community made football, our university, our athletic department, and our basketball.  So that covers the gamut.  And you know, it's his priority, and there should be a priority.  We'll all be better off.  Some of the schools do it.  My hat's off to them.  You know, Kansas has done it. 
 I'd rather pattern off south Florida in both.  It's a lot more fun.  They have a great relationship down there.  I'm not sure that that would be the best way for me to do it, I know that. 

 Q.  (No Microphone)? 
 COACH IZZO:  No tie.  I'm half and half, back to business, as they say.  But I don't know.  I didn't I look at this year, I'm excited about the year.  I think we have enough workers.  I don't need to work them.  They're going to work.  We have enough self-motivated guys. 
 Yet I'm enjoying coaching this team right now because I think my staff's in place, everybody knows what they're doing.  There are enough veterans in place that they show the freshmen what to do.  And let's hope it's a good ride there.  Will be a lot of work ahead.  Some ups and downs, and bumps.  Things that everybody goes through. 
 If college football is anything -- it sends us any message on upsets, parody, and all those things, I hate to see what college basketball's in for because it's been a wild run in football, hasn't it? 

 Q.  (No Microphone)? 
 COACH IZZO:  Thanks, guys, appreciate it. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT