ISPS HANDA WALES OPEN
August 30, 2013
Tjaart Van Der Walt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  TJAART VAN DER WALT:   Yesterday was a lot easier than today, scoring and conditions.   But today I managed to golf the ball in the right direction and got up‑and‑down a few times, and made a couple putts, one from off the green, but making a lot of pars, which helps out here in these conditions.   
But yeah, quite satisfied.  
   
 Q.   And you had those lovely red figures coming home back‑to‑back which really improves the score.   
TJAART VAN DER WALT:   Yeah, I hung on there the whole day.   A couple bogeys early on wasn't from bad shots, maybe a couple of bad breaks, running through fairways.   Probably picked the wrong clubs, but I felt I picked the right club, and some holes just played a little tricky early on, as was the whole day.   I managed to hit a couple shots close towards the end and rolled a couple putts in, and then there was an unfortunate bogey on one hole that I miss‑clubbed, but besides that, it was all good.  
   
 Q.   Tricky seems to sum it up.   
TJAART VAN DER WALT:   It was tricky in the sense that there was a couple light showers that came and when you turn there on No. 3 and No. 4 and you're playing into a two, three‑club wind, it makes it interesting where those pins were.   [] but like I said, we got through there okay, a couple pars, and then sort of, you know you've got to get into the turn down there where there's a couple birdie holes, and I managed to take advantage of those opportunities, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Better put this into context; how well have you been playing?   
TJAART VAN DER WALT:   The whole year, very well.   But I haven't been able to get into enough events.   
But it's given me motivation to work harder on my game and I've got a good stable behind me, and everyone is sort of rooting for us and holding thumbs for good results here when we have to play well.   
But when you don't play that often, it's hard to show up and then play well.   But who knows, you know, some of the hard work will start paying off.   
   
 Q.   Kind of stop/start and you're looking at the list and seeing who is pulling out, if anything, if there's any kind of chance?   
TJAART VAN DER WALT: It's not our first year on Tour, so we can predict or more less but there's still that doubt that it will happen the way they say it will, some of the numbers.   But we have are a few events coming up that I can play and maybe do well in and secure playing privileges for next year, because that's the ultimate goal is to have a job for next year and that's why we are here playing and competing.  
   
 Q.   And you're positive about that, because you're right on the cusp there, aren't you.   
TJAART VAN DER WALT:   Yeah, I am, and last year was hard breaking towards the end, missing by one spot to keep my card.   You know, and this year, the motivation is then not to have that heartbreak again and that's why I feel like I'm gaining momentum as the year is going on, where last year I was sliding the opposite way.   
You know, my friend down there just close to Manchester, old Alan Thompson, we have been doing really good work, and Mr.Kramski across the water has been helping us on the short game so there's been a lot of good people helping us, so I just have to perform.  
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT