UNIVERSITY OF OREGON FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 14, 2017
Royce Freeman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Stanford - 49, Oregon - 7
Q. Royce, what is the mood of the team after two losses like this?  This is something that could cause some teams to become demoralized?
ROYCE FREEMAN: Yeah, that's the biggest thing.  We can't let it let us down.  Things happen in football.  And right now we're facing a little adversity when it comes to performing out there on the football field.  We've got to use this week to clean things up.
Q. What do you tell guys after a night like tonight?
ROYCE FREEMAN: I just tell them we're blessed to play another game.  God willing we play next week on Saturday, and we've got to use this week to get better.  If you use every day to get better, I mean, by the end of the season, man, you're going to start to see a lot of improvement.
Q. Taggart says (indiscernible) is playing better in practice.  Are you surprised from the drop-off from practice to the game?
ROYCE FREEMAN: No, man.  I think he's going out there and learning a lot.  He's experiencing a lot and he's only going to get better.
Q. What did you see from the wide receivers tonight blocking out there on the edge?
ROYCE FREEMAN: I think they did a great job.  I mean, you know, probably not getting a lot of balls thrown their way, but taking pride and blocking on the perimeter, I feel that's something we can hang our hat on and something we have to be about.
Q. I know this is a tough question after a 49-7 loss, but you guys were running the ball pretty well pretty much throughout the game.  You wanted this thing to be more low scoring where you dictated a little bit with your run.  It just got away from you?
ROYCE FREEMAN: Yeah, we always want to dictate the front offensively and defensively.  I felt like we ran the ball really well.  Offensive line, they play their ass off.  And those guys make me look good.  But it's really those guys getting movement and the perimeter guys, like you said earlier, holding down the blocks, and we were able to make a lot of things happen in the running game today.
Q. Braxton had so much success throughout his life, high school football, and now he's thrown in the fire and it's not going too well.  As a captain on this team, what do you say to him maybe even during the game to keep him up?
ROYCE FREEMAN: I mean, you've got to go through adversity to get to success.  Nobody's built with straight-off success.  I feel like the toughest times you go through makes you who you are.  We have a lot of football left to play, so I keep reminding him, you don't have to be a hero.  You don't have to go do anything out of your element, and we're here for him.
Q. Asked Taggart and he didn't really have an answer, but seven games and the penalties are still a thing that is lingering.  What is getting through, because Willie is definitely emphasizing it.  What isn't happening?
ROYCE FREEMAN: I think we have to lock in and just pay attention more to detail.  We can't be selfish.  We have to go out there and, I mean, we've just got to win the penalty battle.  That is a big factor.
Q. You had three first downs in the first half wiped out because of them.  You turn around and see a flag.  How frustrating is that?
ROYCE FREEMAN: It's frustrating.  But I appreciate them going out there and even trying to block.  We've just got to clean up some things and we've got to be smarter about how we go about blocking.
Q. Was the wind taken out of your sails after those first couple runs in the first quarter?
ROYCE FREEMAN: No, I mean, just a lot of football left to play.  He's a great player and Stanford is a good team.  So we've just got to learn how to bounce back from things like that.
Q. Did you get a chance to see any of Washington?  From one great back to another, what did you think of him?
ROYCE FREEMAN: I think he's a great player.  He definitely came up and he's playing his butt off.  Just I liked to watch him.
Q. How difficult is it to have a loss like this?  You decided to come back for your senior season, have a great game, and the results just aren't there and now two weeks in a row?
ROYCE FREEMAN: Man, we've just got to keep pushing.  We can't let the little things let us down.  We have to execute on little things.  I feel like they'll pick us up.
Q. (Indiscernible)?
ROYCE FREEMAN: I don't know.  I couldn't see.  I thought it was a towel or something.  But it definitely took up a good amount of time.  I told one of the Floridians to go catch one.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT