ROGERS CUP
August 11, 2015
Carol Zhao
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. BRENGLE/C. Zhao
  6‑1, 6‑1 
   
 Q. Carol, a little bit of a difficult day for you. What wasn't working out there as well as maybe you would have liked?  
CAROL ZHAO: I think I can't really be disappointed with my performance today. I'm more disappointed in the result, I guess. I gave myself a lot of‑‑ I created a lot of opportunities for myself and wasn't able to, you know, capitalize and even the match a little bit more, which is obviously something I need to go back and work on.  
   
 Q. How tough was the wind to deal with?  
CAROL ZHAO: It was okay. It wasn't too bad. I mean she was dealing with it too, so I don't think it had too much of an effect.  
   
 Q. Can you talk a little bit about playing at the college level and out here on tour?   
CAROL ZHAO: Yeah. It's definitely not easy, but I have to realize that I'm really lucky to be able to do both. But it's obviously really busy. I haven't been home much and just on the road all the time playing tournaments as much as possible in the summer. But yeah, at the end of the day I really appreciate it.   
   
 Q. First of all, congrats on the Pan Am Gold.   
CAROL ZHAO: Thank you.  
   
 Q. And what do you think it's going to take‑‑ you're doing great on the college level. What's it going to take to get you to the next, the pro level?  
CAROL ZHAO: You know, I think that's the million dollar question. I mean it's‑‑ I think a lot of times the results don't come right away and you just have to keep working and trust the process and have faith that what you're working on is eventually going to pay off. And I think that's the most important part for me right now.  
   
 Q. How cool is it playing in a tournament so close to home and what kind of family and friends do you have here?  
CAROL ZHAO: Yeah. Very cool. I mean I've always enjoyed playing here in the past. It's only once every two years, but only because I'm from Toronto. But definitely want to do well when you're at home, obviously, and hopefully next time will go a little smoother.  
   
 Q. How would you compare playing college tennis and playing the tour both off the court and on the court?  
CAROL ZHAO: Yeah. Well, obviously at the college level right now, I'm not really the underdog on tour. I'm more of the underdog, especially at this level. So that's obviously like a mental difference.  
But obviously, you know, game wise, like there's a huge difference. Like the pro players don't give you much to work with. Like today where you know, I thought I didn't really play a terrible match, but the score didn't indicate that way. So obviously a lot to work on moving forward.  
   
 Q. Any kind of things you have gotten to do in college that has made you think it was a good decision?  
CAROL ZHAO: Yeah. I mean constantly I get a lot of opportunities to do very cool things. I got to shadow one of my professors who's a surgeon in the operating room. I had the opportunity to be a teaching assistant last quarter. Just like many things like that that I never thought that I could get a chance to do.  
   
 Q. What are some of the courses? Are you thinking you're going to do all four years?  
CAROL ZHAO: I'm not sure yet. I'm just taking it year by year for now. And I've taken a pretty eclectic mix of courses so far. So they're all really different, but I've really enjoyed all of them.   
THE MODERATOR: Any other questions? Okay. Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT