WNBA FINALS: DREAM v LYNX
October 10, 2013
Seimone Augustus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Minnesota Lynx ‑ 86,
  Atlanta Dream ‑ 77 
   
 Q.   15 years ago we asked you because you had been through so much with this organization what it meant.   Now you've got two of them.   Put that interest perspective, especially last year having one get away, what this one means.   
SEIMONE AUGUSTUS:   You know what, my grandma always said, she was like, doing like the free agency and everything.   You've got to kind of think, you've got to weigh your options and whatever.   She was like, the grass ain't always greener on the other side.   That was kind of key for me.   That made my decision a lot easier?  
   
 Q.   You said your grandma said that to you?  
SEIMONE AUGUSTUS:   Yeah, my grandma did.   She said the grass isn't always greener on the other side.   So I stayed with the Lynx, and look what we built.   I don't want to say a dynasty because we haven't gotten to the Houston Comets level yet, but we have a pretty damned good team here I think that can probably go for another.   We can probably get up to the Houston Comets level if we keep going.  
   
 Q.   You're setting a standard for the rest of the league.   I would imagine that's what you always wanted to do, to say we can be the franchise that year after year is‑‑  
SEIMONE AUGUSTUS:   Yeah, especially now with so much talent in this league, like it's hard to get back here.   People think‑‑ I'm sorry if we make it look easy, but it's very hard to get back here.   Look what Washington did this year, look what Chicago did this year.   We're just lucky to be in this position, and we're willing to sacrifice some parts of their game to make this team better.  
   
 Q.   What about the fact that for the second game in a row everybody scored in double figures?  
SEIMONE AUGUSTUS:   In order to do this no one cares who gets the credit.   This is Maya's hometown, everyone is going to be excited about it.   Everyone cared.   We wanted a championship.   We wanted her to win MVP so that the people here in Georgia can have something to be proud of, and she deserved it, as well, just like you said.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT