NBA FINALS: HEAT v MAVERICKS
June 18, 2006
Gary Payton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Can you fathom the fact that you are like one win away from winning the trophy? 
 GARY PAYTON:  Well, it feels good.  But we've still got a lot of work to do.  You know, we are going back to their home court where it's going to be very hard to win basketball games.  We haven't won there all year.  So, you know, what we're going to do is we're just going to come out and try to play a perfect game and hopefully we can win on Tuesday. 

 Q.  Two Finals games, two great, big shots for you at the end of games, what does that mean for you to be hitting these shots the way you are at the times that you are? 
 GARY PAYTON:  Well, I'm just there and it's in the situation at the time.  I have the ball and, you know, I want to win, so the clock will be winding down and I get the wide open shot or I get a look, you know, I'm going to take it.  So I've been taking them and fortunately for me, they have been going down. 

 Q.  Talk about that play, because time was winding down, and you did make the basket, but still seemed to be some confusion amongst you guys afterwards, too. 
 GARY PAYTON:  No, it was my mistake.  I was supposed to swing the ball to Posey, but I thought that he was supposed to go through, and when he didn't go through and then everybody started crowding up, the lane was wide open.  I took the lane and drove and I made a left-hand layup. 

 Q.  Can you kind of relate with Coach Riley, he's been like 18 years between titles, how bad you want this title and how bad do you want it for him? 
 GARY PAYTON:  Well, we both want the title.  He hasn't had one in, what you said, 18 years or so.  It would be great for him to win one, it would be great for me to win one.  But we've still got a lot of work like I said.  We're not going to think about it right now.  We're going to think about it on Game 6 Tuesday night and it happened, I know me and him are probably going to hug each other and probably go out to lunch when we get back to Miami, because we both hugged each other in the locker room today after the game.  I think we're both looking forward to it. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT