NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v HEAT
May 24, 2006
Gary Payton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   GARY PAYTON:  It's going to be different.  They're going to come with a lot more intensity and they're going to come with a lot more aggressiveness.  We've just got to withstand the fight.  We know they're going to come.  They're a good basketball team, they're going to come hard at us and put us back on our heads.   
  Q.  (Inaudible) between Game 6 of Chicago and Game 1 in New Jersey, is that a danger going into this next game?   
 GARY PAYTON:  No, I don't think so.  I think we've got to -- they're thinking they've got to come out and put it to us; we're thinking we've got to come out and put it to them.  We've got to change the momentum.  We can't come back and just be like we're satisfied with what we've done.  We've just got to take the game like we did in Game 1, and hopefully it'll be the same outcome.  We know they're going to come hard.  They're going to adjust to a lot of things.  They're a good basketball team and they're going to adjust to it.   
  Q.  Did they look tired to you last night because they said they were?   
 GARY PAYTON:  Well, that's on them.  We don't know nothing.  I wasn't looking in their face to see if they were tired or anything.  If they said that, then that's what they think.   
  Q.  Talk about the X factors of the scoring.  You were able to put up some points.  Do you think that's something that -- they expect Dwyane, they expect Shaq, but do you give them something maybe the Pistons don't expect to see?   
 GARY PAYTON:  I don't know.  Our team is built around Dwyane and Shaq.  Once we put up some points and stuff, it makes them think about us a little bit more.  We just help out.  Right now we're just a team that's team oriented.  If we get shots and knock them down, that's good for us.  We just try to help as much as possible.   
  Q.  The drive for you to get a ring personally, can you talk about what that means to you now and why this time of year is really important to you?   
 GARY PAYTON:  Well, it's always meaningful to get a ring, especially as long as I've been in the league.  But this part of the year is the same to me because I've been here before.  I've made a couple finals.  I just want to win, win, win.  I don't want to go through the same thing with being disappointed and not getting a ring and having the opportunity to be here and lose three or four times.  Right now it's just me being focused and hopefully our team just staying focused and we'll win basketball games.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT