NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: LIGHTNING v BRUINS
May 26, 2011
Dwayne Roloson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You guys are so good in situations where your backs are against the wall. You've now won four consecutive elimination games this time?  
 DWAYNE ROLOSON: I think just everybody, the way we're prepared, through our coaching staff and management to the way that the players focus on the details and do the things they've got to do to win hockey. And guys battled through adversity a lot this year, and it's just another game for us to go and play.  
  
  Q. As well as you guys have played to get here, there's kind of a sense maybe you haven't put a full 60 minutes of your best hockey together. Is that still out there for this group in Game 7?  
 DWAYNE ROLOSON: Yeah, that's obviously our goal in every game is to play 60 minutes or whatever it's going to take to win a hockey game, 80, 90, however long it will be.   
 So for us just focus on the first shift and hopefully that rolls over and we get 60 strong minutes of hockey in.  
  
  Q. How would you assess your performance yesterday?  
 DWAYNE ROLOSON: Good. I don't really look at my performance. For me it's about team. It's always been about team, and we won, and that's for us all that matters.  
  
  Q. You had spectacular elimination record. This is something that you guys keep going in Game 7. Does it ever play in your mind all these elimination numbers that you faced and won?  
 DWAYNE ROLOSON: No, not at all. Because those numbers are not about me. It's about my teammates that have I played with and that I'm playing with now. So realistically has zero to do with me, it's about what they've done in front of me to allow our teams to win.  
  
  Q. What kind of game are you expecting from the Bruins tomorrow?  
 DWAYNE ROLOSON: I'm sure we're going to see their best game also. We're going to do our best to give our best, and I'm sure they are, too.  
  
  Q. In terms of style of play, you've seen a few kind of high-scoring uncharacteristic games for playoff series. Game 7s I think by nature tend to be a little bit more tight checking, low scoring. Is that a fair assessment of what you might expect in the Game 7 tomorrow?  
 DWAYNE ROLOSON: I think everybody expects it. But everybody expected the series to be a tight checking and low scoring series. So whatever happens, happens. And at the end of the day hopefully we score more than they do.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT