NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: WILD v MIGHTY DUCKS
May 16, 2003
Dwayne Roloson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
DWAYNE ROLOSON: You know, starting in the preseason, when we started winning games and really believing in what we were doing and believing in each other, it went through the regular season and into the playoffs.  There is a tremendous amount of character in this hockey club, probably the greatest character that I have ever played with.  That's saying a lot.  The guys just never give up.  There is a lot of pride in here, and, just a great team, and that's what sports is all about.  It's coming together and producing a great team, and there is a lot to be said for that, and we're proud of being the team that we are. 
 
Q.  What will you remember most about this year, how far you went?
 
DWAYNE ROLOSON: Oh, gosh, yeah, making the playoffs, obviously was something to be remembered, because it was a goal of ours.  For three years, we've talked about it.  We always said that, you know, in our tenure here, we wanted to make the playoffs, and we did that this year, so there is a certain amount of pride there we had for that.  The job going through the playoffs that we did and beating two great hockey clubs was certainly exciting and memorable and very prideful.  
 
Q.  How will this experience help this team two or three years down the line from now?
 
DWAYNE ROLOSON: Well, any time you have experience in the playoffs, playing in Game 7s, it's going to be a tremendous help for the guys here, you know, Marian and some of the other guys, it's going to be a tremendous help.  You know, you just hope the team just keeps building and moving forward and we intend to do that. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
DWAYNE ROLOSON: Yeah, you hope so.  We hoped when we scored that we would get a few more.  We had some chances again, and we just didn't get them.  You know, a couple little bounces on their goals, and they're in.  That's hockey.  I've always said games and series change on a bounce.  They do that a lot of times, and tonight was no different.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT