NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: LIGHTNING v BRUINS
May 18, 2011
Dwayne Roloson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: We're joined by Dwayne Roloson. Questions? 

 Q. How surprised were you in that second period that it was so wide open and that the Bruins got the kind of shots and space that they got in that second period?
 DWAYNE ROLOSON: I don't think the second period was much different than the first, to be honest with you. We got away from our system and structure as a team the first two periods.
 And we came out in the third, played our system a little bit better and our style a little bit better. So for us it was just not sticking to what we had to to win a hockey game.

 Q. I was just curious about the thought, how it works when Guy decides that Mike's going to (indiscernible) whether you guys discuss it, whether he says this is how it is, and maybe how you feel about it, whether - just how that process is, how you feel about it?
 DWAYNE ROLOSON: Yeah, we actually had a discussion, Coach and I, and our goalie coach, and we just talked about what was going on and what I thought, and obviously I didn't want to come out, but at the same time if that's what he thought was going to give us a little spark to be able to come back, then to make the move. And he made the decision, and obviously it was the right decision when the guys came back and battled back.
 And we had some chances there to tie it up late. But unfortunately for us Timmy made some big saves to keep this team into it.

 Q. In the first game, they were not able to put a lot of traffic in front of you. Your defensemen were able to keep everybody or mostly everybody away. Did you feel that there was a big difference yesterday in that fashion?
 DWAYNE ROLOSON: Not really. They got in front of the net in Game 1 and got in front of the net in Game 2. It's just for us it was our system and structure that broke down a little bit compared to Game 1. 
 And, for us, we're a team that plays our style and plays it to however Guy -- or Coach has us playing. And we just got away from what the system that he wanted us to play last night. 
 And for the first two periods and the third period we played our system and the structure the way he wanted us to play, and we played well.

 Q. Tell me, you saw a lot of him last night obviously but maybe not much before that, but what were your impressions of Tyler Seguin?
 DWAYNE ROLOSON: Obviously he's a young kid playing in the NHL, and if he wasn't good enough or capable of playing here, he wouldn't be here. 
 He's got great skill. He's a great player. So he capitalized on the chances he had last night. And he played extremely well.

 Q. I take it you didn't skate today. And Guy has talked a lot about your workout habits and how diligent you are. Does it feel weird at this stage of the Playoffs not to be on the ice, or what's it like when you're not and you're used to it?
 DWAYNE ROLOSON: Well, we didn't get in until 4:30 or something like that this morning, so it's one of those things that you need your rest also. 
 So we'll skate tomorrow. And so getting a day off is always - it's good to get some rest and with us getting in so late, you gotta get your rest and you gotta be able to balance the two out, the work and the time to get some rest. 
 So I think it's a good day off for us. And we'll come back and regroup tomorrow morning. 

 Q. Obviously your penalty kill has done so well throughout the course of the postseason, and the Bruins are saying they were doing a few things differently last night. Could you tell anything different that they were doing or that made them a little more effective on the power play?
 DWAYNE ROLOSON: They're a skilled team. They got great players on the power play, and they were able to get some looks that they weren't able to get before. 
 So obviously we gotta make some tweaks to that, but at the same time we really -- our system and our structure has been working for us so far. So I'm sure we won't be doing too many different things to change. For us it's just staying within our system and our structure, just like our five-on-five play. 
 If we stay within that system, we should be fine.

 Q. First, it's been a while since you guys lost a game, did you forget what that feeling was like to be on the wrong end of it? And, second of all, you've been so consistent with that system, are you surprised that it broke down last night?
 DWAYNE ROLOSON: Yeah, I'm a little surprised that it broke down. But at the same time it is hockey, and it's a game of mistakes. The other team capitalizes on your mistakes and as well as your team capitalizes on the other team's mistakes.
 So we knew it was going to be a long series, and we still plan on it being a long series. So for us we've got to stay within our system and focus and regroup for tomorrow. 
 And for the question on losing, you know, it's just part of the game. You always have one winner and one loser. So for us -- we haven't -- having the string we did, that's great, but at the same time we have to focus on the next game. We've always been a team that's never looked in the past. We've looked in the future and tried to control the things we can control, and that's what we're going to do for tomorrow.

 Q. Why do you think this game has been such an offensive series this game? The series has been so offensive oriented, seems like a lot more goals than I think what anybody would have suspected with you and Tim Thomas in goal, starting off anyway. 
 DWAYNE ROLOSON: I just think if you look at the team structure, both teams have a lot of skill up front. It's being able to limit the guy's time and space.
 They're All-Star players, and they're players that are top-notch players in the league. So it's pretty hard to contain them day in and day out. It's why Gretzky and Lemieux were so good, or Messier, because they're so talented. And same with the guys that are playing right now, the guys we have on our team and the guys they have on their team, there's going to be times when you can't contain them.
 But for the most part you're not going to be able to contain them all the time, and they're gifted players, so they're going to take advantage of the chances that they get.

 Q. Just curious about the challenge Tyler Seguin presents. Aside from his obvious talent, does the fact that he's relatively new to you as an opponent present a unique challenge? And do you think you'll do any extra film study to get a better feel for his tendencies going into Game 3?
 DWAYNE ROLOSON: No, I won't do any extra film to look at him specifically. It's not about him, it's about us, what we gotta do to shut down him and also the rest of his teammates. So to focus on one player, then somebody else is going to come in and step it up. 
 So for us to focus on one, we really can't do that. We gotta focus on what we gotta do and control the things, like I said earlier, that we have to do to win hockey games. And we control what we can and we should be fine. But at the same time they're a great team on the other side. 
 So we gotta make sure we're ready to go tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT