BIG TEN CONFERENCE MEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 2, 2018
Keita Bates-Diop
Chris Holtmann
Jae'Sean Tate
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Penn State - 69, Ohio State - 68   
THE MODERATOR: Coach, an opening statement.   
COACH HOLTMANN: Give Penn State credit, I thought they made the necessary plays down the stretch.  Tough back and forth game.  We'll learn from it and get ready for the tournament.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions of the student-athletes.   
 Q.  When someone is scoring as effortlessly and easily as Carr was, is there anything you can do defensively?  
KEITA BATES-DIOP: I mean, we just gotta try to make them as uncomfortable as possible.  He's a great player and it's hard to stop him when he can score on all three levels.  So the best thing we could do is try to get the ball out of his hands.   
 Q.  Jae'Sean, I saw you shaking your head as you were looking down at the statistics.  What was it that you were shaking your head at?  
JAE'SEAN TATE: A lot of things.  The amount of offensive rebounds we gave up in the second half -- I mean in the first half.  That really came down to why the game went that way.  We just gotta be -- in the future we've got to lock down on the offensive end.  I think we did, on the defensive end, we did a great job of making them take tough shots, but we gave them one-on-one chance and that's where it hurt us.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.  Questions for Coach.   
 Q.  Chris, did Pat throw anything different in here, third matchup, anything the first, second half, or was this all according to the scouting report, no new surprises?  
COACH HOLTMANN: Nothing different, nothing different.  I don't know why they would have.  They've beaten us twice.  The same way they've played and attacked us.   
 Q.  I know you're not really concerned with their team, but do you think they're an NCAA Tournament team?  
COACH HOLTMANN: I thought that about them and Nebraska.  I've thought that about both.  But I don't study the metrics.  Do I think they're talented enough and capable enough to win a game in the NCAA Tournament?  Absolutely, absolutely.   
Look across the board, even without Watkins.  They're plenty good enough.  They play together.  They play hard.  But whether they've done the necessary stuff throughout the year, and I've not looked at good wins versus, outside of our three, versus bad losses.  I don't know what their metrics are like.  I really don't.  So I don't even know what ours are like.   
 Q.  Speaking of the NCAA Tournament, you're looking at about two weeks until you play your first game; is that something that you're looking forward to the rest, or are you worried that you might come out a little flat?  
COACH HOLTMANN: We've gotten that question a lot.  I think we'll try to balance rest versus rest.  And I've already talked to some people about that in preparation for it.  It's obviously unique given the length of the layoff that we have right now.  But we'll work on that and put a plan together here in place tomorrow.   
 Q.  You said that you didn't really see anything different from Penn State tonight.  Without Mike Watkins, did your game plan going in change any way on offense or defense?  
COACH HOLTMANN: A little bit.  A little bit.  But Watkins was a presence at the rim in both games.  But he did not -- he impacted the game, but it wasn't as much as their other guys.  And they really have great depth on the interior.   
So at the end of the day the guy that hurt us in previous games hurt us.  I think his ability to affect shots at the rim hurts them and his size, but they've got really good interior depth.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT