PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 10, 2002
Anne Kremer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  Could you talk a little bit about today. 
 
ANNE KREMER:  Yeah, I mean, I played a good match.  It's a nice win for me.  I think she's a Top 10 player.  It's always nice to beat one of them, so it's definitely a good day.  
 
Q.  Can you talk a little bit about the week that you've had. 
 
ANNE KREMER:  So far it has been good.  I got here like a week ago.  I was a little sick, but that's okay now.  Luckily I had a bye in the first round, which helped me to recuperate a little bit more.  My first match was really tough.  I had a three-setter.  But I played well, so that gave me confidence for this one.  I've beaten Jelena in Tokyo like a month ago, so I knew I had a chance.  I played a solid match, I guess. 
 
Q.  You said you weren't feeling well when you came in.  Were the conditions here also difficult for you to get used to?
 
ANNE KREMER:  No.  Well, I came from indoors, so it always takes a while to get used to the outdoors again.  But the courts are really nice.  I played here last year, so it's easier if you have played the event before, you know, to get used to the conditions again.  So that was not too much of an issue.  
 
Q.  Your opponent talked of a leg injury.  Did you have the sense that she wasn't moving well?  Did you try to exploit that?
 
ANNE KREMER:  Yeah, sure.  I mean, of course I tried to exploit that.  You know, she had both legs taped.  She had injuries in Paris, I guess.  So, yeah, my strategy definitely was to make her move a lot.  
 
Q.  Could you visibly see that she wasn't moving well?
 
ANNE KREMER:  I couldn't really see that, no. 
 
Q.  She was talking about a new injury. 
 
ANNE KREMER:  Oh, a new one.  
 
Q.  From the last match. 
 
ANNE KREMER:  Oh, well, if she says she's injured, she's injured, yeah. 
 
Q.  But you were going to do that anyway based on her history of injury?
 
ANNE KREMER:  Yeah.  Well, no, based on the match I played against her a month ago, not really on the history of her injuries (laughter).  
 
Q.  Are you the type of player that looks at the draw to see where you are at this particular point?
 
ANNE KREMER:  I used to never look at the draw, but last winter I was traveling by myself a lot so I had to look at the draw.  Now I just keep looking at it, yeah.  I do look at the draw now. 
 
Q.  Can you see yourself moving on?
 
ANNE KREMER:  Well, I have Lisa Raymond next up.  She's really tough.  I'll have to play really well if I want to beat her.  It's going to be hard.  You know, just go out there and try my best. 
 
Q.  Have you played Lisa before?
 
ANNE KREMER:  Yeah, I played her on grass in Birmingham, which is her best surface, I guess, the grass.  I lost a close match.  So hopefully I'll take revenge.  I don't know.  I'll try.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT