U.S. SENIOR OPEN
August 15, 2016
Chip Lutz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Chip Lutz, with an even par 70 today.  10 over for the Championship.
CHIP LUTZ: How are you?
Q. How excited are you to be Low Amateur at the U.S. Senior Open?
CHIP LUTZ: It's fantastic.  First appearance, age 61.  I'm thrilled.  So it was my goal coming into the tournament, and it was something that was -- it's obviously very special.  I had trouble on the first nine in my first round.  So it was a battle coming back.  But I managed to play pretty steady in a way, and today was a really good, solid day.
The golf course played so different today than the other three.  So much longer.  We got no roll from the tee shots.  But you could hit right to the pin.  So the greens were softer and more receptive, so that was a little easier in that regard.  But the golf course definitely played longer today.
Q. Was it sort of a net that the greens are softer, no wind, yet it played longer.  What's sort of the net on that?
CHIP LUTZ: I think it depends on the ball striking, obviously.  For those guys who can -- are good on their range and their distance, control, I think that's going to be a big advantage today.  So I expect to see some reasonably good scoring.
Q. You had a tough -- not decision, but Mother Nature made it for you, in terms of what -- you were going to be in the U.S. Am, correct?
CHIP LUTZ: Correct.  I was hoping to play today, actually.  I had a 2:00 tee-off time, but I preempted that start to finish this.  Obviously, it was really, in my mind, more important to me personally because I was in line to get this medal for Low Am.  So that's more of a distinguishment and an honor for me.
I might have had a little more difficulty playing a 7,500-yard golf course with all the kids.  So I'm pretty excited about getting this done.  Guys my own age.
Q. Great.  Where would this rank in terms of all your accomplishments?  Obviously, you've won the Senior Amateur in three different countries and all the things that you've done.  Where would this rank on your list of accomplishments?
CHIP LUTZ: This is definitely one of the top because it really helps me personally validate the fact that I think maybe one day I could have played with these guys.
All amateurs kind of go through that same process of thinking woulda, coulda, shoulda, you know, that whole process, wondering whether or not you'd ever really been good enough to do it.
So, for me, it's really kind of self-satisfying to know that I think I could hold my own out here if I really had given it a go.  But I have no regrets, and I'm thrilled to have the opportunity at my age to really accomplish what I have.  This is just tremendous.
Q. Last one for me.  In the practice round, it was three amateurs and Tom Watson.  What was that like, and did you learn anything from Tom Watson in the practice round?
CHIP LUTZ: I always learn from the true champions.  I love to observe and see what's going on, how they handle themselves -- the kind of shots they hit, the tempo that they instill upon themselves.
I think of anything that I got out of this was that how steady these guys are.  I tend to get a little quick on swings, but you really don't see a lot of that out of these guys, whether it's a 3 iron or a driver or a pitching wedge.  They really always maintain excellent tempo and composure throughout their games.
I think that was really the thing I get to take away from this.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT