U.S. SENIOR AMATEUR
October 1, 2015
Chip Lutz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CHIP LUTZ: It's just really tremendous.  I know a lot of folks have been thanked here and can be thanked over and over and over again.   
First of all, Tom Huff, who really conducted a tremendous competition.  Also, of course, our owners, who I'm particularly fond of, especially now that I'm a member.  It's just tremendous.   
Roger and Edwina, it was just really a fun time.  You made it so warm and welcoming to not only me, but everybody here and all the participants.  That means a lot coming from two owners who really get involved in the golf course, really get involved with the people, and are just really regular people.   
That's great to see.  (Applause.)   
Greg Sanfilippo and Lisa, great job.  They are championship director, Greg; and Lisa, thank you for your efforts.  And particularly all the USGA volunteers.  The volunteers don't always get the recognition they deserve.  This is a tremendous amount of effort.  They travel greatly to get to these championships and to administer them in the highest standards.  We greatly appreciate that.   
And also the volunteers who have been here.  It's just been remarkable.  It's a tremendous job.  I know Edwina how hard it is to get people to volunteer, but you seem to do it effortlessly.  Must have a pretty strong arm.  (Laughter.)   
You did a great job.  That was fantastic.  Thank you for the pin.  The golf course, your staff, absolutely tremendous.  Obviously you presented a golf course which was in tremendous competitive condition, and it changed every day.   
That was the beauty of it.  As players we had to adapt our games to the firming conditions, to the speeds of the greens, and it really presented a true challenge for all of us.   
So thank you for the efforts that you gave us.  And your staff.  Thank you.   
Andrew Madison and the pro shop staff, you guys are all great to me.  Thank you so much.  Lizzie, you seem to have called it early you said.  Thank you.  Like the way you think.  (Laughter.)   
But it's just really been tremendous for me.  The opportunity to stand here today is just a remarkable journey for me.  (Applause).   
Particularly to have my mom here was really special.  My mom, first time she's ever seen me play, so it was really particularly exciting for me.  Also carried a burden.   
And all the friends that had joined me today from LedgeRock, my home club up in Reading, my brother, my wife of course.  How could I forget?  Let me back up.  My wife.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  Quick learner.  
CHIP LUTZ: And my business partner and her husband John recounted more rounds of my golf and seen more of my play than probably most people have, and they've been great supporters as well.   
But everybody has just been tremendous.  I've had a lot of support and inspiration.  A lot of those names are on this trophy, so when I see that, knowing that I'll be there, it's really good.   
So thank you all.  It really has been a great experience.  I'm glad to finally have arrived here at the USGA and become one of your champs.   
Thank you.  (Applause).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT