CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: MISSISSIPPI STATE v GEORGIA TECH
December 29, 2014
Dak Prescott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What's the attitude the last couple days, relaxed or still a business trip?   What's the mindset?
DAK PRESCOTT:   I mean, kind of both.   We're relaxing when it's time to be relaxed, but when we're out there practicing or in the film room for preparing for Georgia Tech it's very businesslike and we're focused on our opponent and just cleaning up the game plan each and every day. 

Q.   How do you guys plan to attack Georgia Tech's defense? 
DAK PRESCOTT:   We've just got to come out and start off fast.   Every game of the season we've started off fast we've done really well, set the tempo and made the other team play our style, and just have to do the same with Georgia Tech, get up on them and make them play from behind.

Q.   This game is perceived as a clash of styles, their great offense against your defense.   Is this a classic clash of styles?
DAK PRESCOTT:   Yeah, definitely.   Everybody knows they want to run the ball and our defense does well at stopping the run, so I'm pretty sure we're up for the task. 

Q.   How do you balance the fun versus work time down in Miami? 
DAK PRESCOTT:   You just have to flip the switch.   Any time we're in meetings or we're out there at practice, we know what we have to prepare for and we know what's going on and we have to be disciplined with getting ourselves ready.   When it's time to have fun and go to the beach and ride jet skis, we don't have to think about their defense at that point, just relax and enjoy time with your team and your brothers, and it's been fun. 

Q.   The beach trip yesterday, was that a first for a lot of the guys?
DAK PRESCOTT:   Yeah, I think so.   I'm sure there's a lot of first time these freshmen went to the ocean.   Just a lot of guys went to the beach like that.   A lot of other players' first time on a jet ski, and we enjoyed it and had a great day. 

Q.   How do you think you'll fare against Georgia Tech's defense?
DAK PRESCOTT:   I'll take me and my offense‑‑ I know they're a good defense.   They're fast.   They get in the right spot, cause a lot of turnovers.   They're a good defense, but we just have to play within ourselves, start off fast and make them play from behind. 

Q.   Did you have a great time yesterday at the beach?
DAK PRESCOTT:   Oh, yeah, definitely, just out there on the beach playing with my teammates, getting on those jet skis, yeah, that was really a time of my life that I'll never forget.

Q.   How long did you guys get to ride the jet skis?
DAK PRESCOTT:   Just up and down the coast.   I'm not really sure, probably 10 to 15 minutes or so, really just let you go out there and push it full throttle and don't hold nothing back.   It was fun.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT