TMS - STUTTGART
November 1, 2000
Thomas Enqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR: Questions for Thomas, please.  
 
Q. Can you update us on the state of your shoulder and your foot - more importantly the
shoulder? Seemed to be injuring you a bit again today.
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: No, I don't think so. I think I had problem a little bit with the
change from playing in Basel. Totally different surface, different balls. You play, you
know, 40 minutes in the morning on this court. Wayne's already been playing in a match, in
the tournament in a different way. I think he played very, very well today. I did mis-time
a lot of shots. On the other hand, he's been beating me four times in a row. He suits my
game pretty bad. He's always a tough player to beat. 
 
Q. Health-wise, how do you feel?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: Good.  
 
Q. The shoulder is not in any way a problem for you?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: No, it's okay, thanks.  
 
Q. After winning in Basel so convincingly, how disappointed are you feeling now?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: It's very disappointing. Coming late into a tournament like this,
you're going to have to play a tough player in the first round, already played one match
before you. You come in, like I said, you hit 40 minutes on the court, you play on a
totally different surface. The balls is flying a lot more here than in Basel. If you win
the first match, you're in the tournament, maybe you can win the whole thing. I had a
really tough round today with Wayne that doesn't suit my game at all to play. I did not
play as well as I have done lately. On the other hand, he played really well. You know,
he's always tough to beat, even if you play well. I did not play as well today. So, of
course, you lose. 
 
Q. The race for Lisbon is obviously warming up now. Do you think it could go on to the
last week?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: Maybe, maybe. We see. I think a lot of players, like you say, have a
good chance to get there. It depends what happens this week now. It's interesting. 
 
Q. What about your chances now? 
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: I think I still have good chances. Still three tournaments left for me
to play. Hopefully I can play well in those. I have a good chance, I think.  
 
Q. How important is it for you to make this championship? You played it a few times.
It's something very big for you?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: Yeah, I think it's important, but it's also important for me to do well
in every tournament I go to. Of course, it's something that you aim on in the beginning of
the year to maybe be able to get there. I'm going to do everything I can to play well so I
can go there. 
 
Q. You say three. You're playing Lyon next week, are you?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: Yes. 
 
Q. Lyon, Paris, Stockholm?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: Yes.  
 
Q. Are you sort of yourself following the points very closely, who is playing what
where?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: No, not like this. I think you know your place in the race, of course.
I mean, I look at it like you have to play well this indoor season to have a chance to go
there. I've been winning one tournament, played well, did not play well this week. I have
three more chances. If play well there, I think I'm going to make it. 
 
Q. You're not the sort of player who sits down as the results come in and see the
difference with the players above or below you?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: No, I don't think so. I want to do well in these tournaments. I'm here
to defend my title this week. Disappointing today that I lost. But that's the way it goes.
I have to look forward for the next coming weeks.  
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT