TMS - CINCINNATI
August 12, 2000
Thomas Enqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question for Thomas.  
 

Q.  That went pretty quickly tonight.  You felt good?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  Yeah, I felt very good I think.  Played solid and served well today.  Didn't face one breakpoint I think the whole match.  I'm happy with the way I played.  
 

Q.  Were you surprised to win so easily, so fast?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  Of course a little bit.  I mean he's been playing extremely well this week, and you don't think about it when you're actually out there.  But of course afterwards you didn't expect maybe to win 6-2, 6-2. ...(Inaudible) I played very well I think. 
 

Q.  How do you look at the matchup tomorrow with Tim?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  I think it's going to be a good match. He's coming into the net a lot. Usually I like to play a serve-and-volleyer.  So if I can be returning as good as I have done this week so far, I think I have a very good chance.  
 

Q.  Can you think back to the beginning of the tournament, you won that third-set tiebreaker in the first match.  You could have easily been out of it.
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  Hmm. 
 

Q.  Do you ever look back and say things kind of took off from there?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  Not really.  You play so many close matches through the years, and it's like this sometimes, you know.  You can play really well for a month or so, then maybe not have so much success because you lose a lot of close matches.  You can start to win a few now, and you can play the same.  But you win close matches, you can go all the way in a big tournament like this.  
 

Q.  No matchpoints, did you say?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  No.  Yeah. ...(Inaudible). 
 

Q.  Usually the night match here has been somewhat of a disadvantage because you have to come back and play the next day.  Do you think maybe since he played such a long match this afternoon and you played so quickly tonight that maybe you're at a better advantage?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  No, I don't think so.  I think we're all fit enough to play, you know, even if you have a three-setter.  I mean sometimes we even play five sets.  It hasn't been this extreme the whole year so far, too.  But I think we are out tomorrow in the same condition.  It's going to be a lot of fun playing.  
 

Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  Yes.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT