TMS - CINCINNATI
August 11, 2000
Thomas Enqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions.


Q.  (Inaudible)?

THOMAS ENQVIST:  I think I was the one that was more aggressive. ...(Inaudible).


Q.  Have you seen the way you play improve every day here?

THOMAS ENQVIST:  I think I've been feeling pretty good the whole week actually, and I played a lot of different opponents I think so far.   My last match against Max Mirnyi, I serve-and-volleyd...(Inaudible).


Q.  How do you look at your chances for the week here?

THOMAS ENQVIST:  I think it looks good.  I think I have to find a good rhythm in my serve...(Inaudible).  I think I was returning very well so far this week...(Inaudible).  That will give me confidence that I will take with me through the weekend, and I think I have a good chance to win the tournament. 


Q.  Do you have a preference between Squillari and Clement?

THOMAS ENQVIST:  Well, they're both tough players...(Inaudible) I'm sure they're going to have a good match now. 


Q.  (Inaudible)?

THOMAS ENQVIST:  Yeah, a new fashion. 


Q.  Is there something under there or...? 

THOMAS ENQVIST: ...(Inaudible).


Q.  It's a little different.

THOMAS ENQVIST:  It works.


Q.  (Inaudible)?

THOMAS ENQVIST:  This is the first time. 


Q.  Obviously, this tour is very deep.  When Agassi and Sampras are in the tournament and they get knocked out and you don't have to play them, do you feel better about it than if you would have to play them?

THOMAS ENQVIST:  I don't think it's this way.  I think you know that you can beat anybody and you know that you can lose to anybody.  I have this attitude when I go to play on the court.  I believe I can beat anybody.  I show myself I can lose, too...(Inaudible).  Every player in this field is very, very tough and they want to win. 


Q.  Since they pretty much made it mandatory to play these events, in the players' eyes are they even bigger than they were in the past?

THOMAS ENQVIST:  I think a little bit.  It's huge difference point-wise...(Inaudible).


Q.  Are the hard courts your favorite surface?

THOMAS ENQVIST:  I think so, yeah.  I think hard court and indoors usually are my favorite surface. 


Q.  Is this the time of year that you...(Inaudible)?

THOMAS ENQVIST:  Yeah, usually the second half of the year is better for me than the first. 


Q.  This is the first time since the open era there hasn't been an American in the semifinals.  Why do you think the Europeans are dominating?

THOMAS ENQVIST:  I think  -- I don't know why.  Pete was playing very well in Wimbledon, Andre's always shown that he can play well...(Inaudible) . So no special reason I think.  I'm sure they're going to do well in the upcoming tournaments.


Q.  Do you think the next generation of American players is just not quite ready, just not as developed as some of the Europeans and South Americans at this point?

THOMAS ENQVIST:  It's hard to say from here.  But for Americans it's tough to live up to.  You've been very spoiled the last few years with especially Pete and Andre to be in the Finals or winning the Grand Slams all the time. (Laughter.)  ...(Inaudible). So maybe it's like this.  It's going to take a while or maybe someone come in right away or maybe it takes a while for somebody to break through. ...(Inaudible).


Q.  You said the second half of the year is usually your best one.  You've probably had your greatest success in January on rebound ace, no?

THOMAS ENQVIST:  Yeah.  I think so.  Usually I play well in Australia.  Clay and grass hasn't really been my cup of tea the last few years.  If you look at winning tournament-wise, I always have a better second half of the year. ...(Inaudible).


Q.  (Inaudible)?

THOMAS ENQVIST:  Clement.  The last time I played Clement was in Adelaide in the beginning of the year, and I think I won in straight sets.  He plays flat, pretty flat.  And he's an all-around player, he can come into the net a few games, he can wait back a few games.  That's what makes him hard to beat.  Squillari, you don't know what to expect. ...(Inaudible) He has a really heavy forearm and is always tough.  I think they're going to have a tough match. 


Q.  This is your third semifinal year.  Can you talk about what you need to do tomorrow to get beyond that point and get into the final?

THOMAS ENQVIST:  I think the key maybe is my serve.  Like I said, I think I've been returning extremely well so far at this tournament this week.  I haven't really found a rhythm in my serve yet.  If I can do that, I have a great chance to do well. 


Q.  Do you remember much about those other two semis, things that you maybe would do differently?

THOMAS ENQVIST:  Not really.  I think I had some chances against Chang...(Inaudible) But the first semifinal I think I lost to Agassi in straight sets.  I have no feeling.  I'd like to forget them. (Laughter.)


Q.  (Inaudible)?

THOMAS ENQVIST:  ...(Inaudible).


Q.  (Inaudible)?

THOMAS ENQVIST:  No, I think I could try and go back and eat now. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT