TMS - INDIAN WELLS
March 19, 2000
Thomas Enqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







GREG SHARKO: Questions for Thomas. 

Q. You stayed on the baseline in the first set, and you went to the net in the second
set. What was your thinking, your approach, going into the third set?

THOMAS ENQVIST: Well, I felt today I was not really fit enough to play my regular game.
I was try to play aggressive and keep the rallies short. I think the first two sets I have
a few chances. I have a few breakpoints, but couldn't take them. Alex came up with some
unbelievable passes, I think. I think that was it, Alex played a solid game and he was
moving very well and he was passing very, very good.

Q. Was it physically or mentally that you felt tired?

THOMAS ENQVIST: Mentally I felt really fine. I couldn't really recover from last night.

Q. How did you feel when you woke up this morning?

THOMAS ENQVIST: Was okay, actually. I had some problem with my left leg, so I couldn't
really put the weight into my serve. I felt today that I was really needed to serve good
to, you know, have a chance to give Alex a good match. 

Q. If you had won the second set tiebreak yesterday, do you think you'd still be out
there now? How would that have changed today's match?

THOMAS ENQVIST: There's no way to look at it that way, I think. I mean, it's part of
the game -- I mean, I've been playing a lot of tough matches and feel fine the next day. I
probably did something with my left leg yesterday. I don't want to take anything from Alex
because he played a terrific match. I think I played pretty good in the first two sets,
but he came up with good passes. I don't want to take anything away from him. I think he
deserved to win.

Q. You still said you didn't feel fit to play your regular game. 

THOMAS ENQVIST: I was not fit enough to run around the baseline, as I usually do. I was
not moving well. That's part of the game. Alex had tough matches also this week. When you
play six matches in six days, of course, everybody's going to be a little bit tired in the
end. That's part of the game. 

Q. Is it something that could jeopardize your playing in Miami?

THOMAS ENQVIST: I have no idea. It's tough to say.

Q. Did you hurt it late in yesterday's match?

THOMAS ENQVIST: I have no idea. It felt fine last night. I woke up, I didn't really
feel like I could push off with it when I served.

Q. Lower leg?

THOMAS ENQVIST: Yes.

Q. Did you have the trainer look at it?

THOMAS ENQVIST: I thought it felt like it was more tiredness, so he gave me like
electrolytes or whatever you call it. I have no idea. I have to (shake?) it up now. 

Q. Do you think there's a certain unfairness when you have a tournament with a five-set
final, to have the semi the day before? Do you think it should be two days before the
final?

THOMAS ENQVIST: I don't know. I mean, it's the same for everybody. I don't want to
blame anything on that. I think I played good tennis this week. I think I played all right
in the first two sets today. Alex came up with some good shots. I felt like I needed at
least one of those first two sets to have a chance to win.

Q. How would you evaluate his level of play compared to the other times you faced him?

THOMAS ENQVIST: It's always tough to say from day-to-day. We probably know that we both
have a good chance when we step on the court. He came up with some very nice passes today
when I was hitting good approach shots. He was too good. 

Q. Was he serving bigger than you normally find him serving against you?

THOMAS ENQVIST: I played him the last few times, I mean, that's one of the things he
been improving the last few years. He has a good serve; I knew that. 

Q. Can you talk about what happened with 15-40 twice there? 

THOMAS ENQVIST: I think he hit a few of them a good service. I think one of them I
played against the wind, and he get me running. I don't remember, I think I was going for
one of those balls and I missed one forehand or something. 

Q. Was it frustrating not to get those breakpoints?

THOMAS ENQVIST: Like I said, I probably needed at least one of those first sets, first
two sets, to have a chance today.

Q. You said the week as a whole you were very happy with; you played very well. How
would you describe your general start to the year?

THOMAS ENQVIST: It was disappointing losing in the first round of the Australian Open.
After that, I felt I've been playing pretty all right. I started off the year good with a
final in Adelaide. This is the second big tournament we have this year, and I made the
final. Hopefully I can continue. 

Q. What is the one most important thing you think you still have to do to push your
game to the peak you think it can reach?

THOMAS ENQVIST: Well, I think if you look at men's tennis today, I mean, so many good
players out there. Everybody can almost beat anybody. I think the most important thing is
even - sometimes you have a few weeks when you going to lose early - you still mentally
prepared to go on to the next week and don't lose too much confidence because that's the
way it's going to work. This big level we have today in men's game, you going to have a
few weeks where maybe you can play all right and still lose early. I think that's the big
key for me, not to lose too much confidence when you have a bad week.

Q. Any one aspect of your game which you feel you need to work on most of all?

THOMAS ENQVIST: A lot of things I think I need to improve always. I've been showing I
can beat anybody in the game. I mean, the key for me is to work with the things -- to work
on my kind of tennis I play. 

Q. You've obviously had some great wins during the week until today. If you had to
summarize the week in just one word or two words, what would those be?

THOMAS ENQVIST: I don't know. It's tough to say after a match like this. I'm happy with
the way I've been playing this week, I have to say that. I think Alex was too good today. 

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT