TMS - INDIAN WELLS
March 18, 2000
Thomas Enqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 GREG SHARKO: Thomas will be attempting to win his third career Tennis Masters Series
title tomorrow. He's the first Swedish player to reach the final here since 1990. That was
also the last time a Swede won, in 1990. First question please.  
 
Q. How exciting was it to win such a match?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: Oh, it's tough to say. Just after this kind of match, it's always tough
to describe. It felt like I was also beating myself a little bit today. But I played a
great match, I think. I played very, very well the whole match. I did a little bit too
many errors when I was, you know, try to close it out. He was going for his shots in the
tiebreak 6-1. I think he made like four aces. It was tough, but I'm very happy to pull
this off.  
 
Q. How tough is it to start a third set after you missed so many opportunities in the
second?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: Well, it's always tough, I think, after you screw up five match points.
But you have a choice: either you go away in the locker room and give up, or you play the
third set. I decided to play the third set. 
 
Q. Can you talk about the game at 5-4 in the second set when you served for it? Were
you nervous in that game?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: I tried to go for my shots a little bit, like close it off. Sometime it
work, sometime it doesn't. Yesterday I finish off with a Love game. Today I lost Love.  
 
Q. Into the third set tiebreaker, it was pretty up-and-down. What were you telling
yourself there? Not to get nervous? Did you see him getting tired? 
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: I mean, I played great the whole match. I stick to my game plan, I
think, continuously. Nothing different. When you come down to a tiebreaker, you know it's
just going to be a few points decide. Hopefully you come up with the big shots. I did that
finally on that match point.  
 
Q. How do you return a serve 140 miles an hour, with your eyes opened or closed? You
returned one 142. 
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: I did. I think I returned really well today. I was seeing the ball
good. Usually, that's one of my strengths, I think, the return of serve. That worked good
today.  
 
Q. Is it very hard to keep yourself calm when the excitement level is up such a state
in a match, the crowd are going crazy? How do you keep yourself cool in those conditions?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: Well, today I'm not the good person to ask (laughter). I mean, that's
why you practicing all days. That's why you play, for to be able to play these kind of
matches. It's an unbelievable feeling to be out there playing, especially today when I
felt I was hitting the ball really well. It's a lot of fun. Of course, you get frustrated,
like today. It's always tough when you're playing well, you can't really finish it off.
Against a good player like Mark, sometimes you don't even have to do bad shots. He did
some unbelievable shots in the tiebreak there. Like I said, I was really a bit lucky to
pull this off, I think. 
 
Q. When was the last time you can remember playing a match or being involved in a match
of that level? Would it have been the Davis Cup final against France?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: That was the other way around a little bit, because I was down like two
sets to love. Pioline was serving for the match at 5-3 in the fifth. I mean, when me and
Mark played last time in the Australian Open, I also served for the match, I think, and
lost. He get back, and we play the five-setter. He never gives up. He fights a lot. He
come up with big shots usually when he needs it.  
 
Q. When is the last time you got a code violation?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: I can't remember that. I think I was pretty happy only get that one. If
I should have showed you what I felt out there, I probably would in jail (laughter).  
 
Q. What does this tell you about yourself that you were able to fight through a match
like that?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: Well, I always try to give a hundred percent as soon as I step on the
court. I don't have to think about it. I never give up, play until the last point is
finished. Today it worked.  
 
Q. How hard is it going to be to come back and play a best-of-five tomorrow?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: It's always tough to say. Sometimes like the day after you feel
nothing, you feel really good. Usually two days after you can be a little bit sore.
Sometimes you get a little bit tired. We see how it feel in the morning. 
 
Q. How about Corretja?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: It's going to be a different kind of tennis as today. Me and Mark play
a little bit similar. We standing pretty close on the baseline, hits the ball hard. Alex
is far back on the baseline and hits a lot of topspin on his ball. It's going to be a
different match. I have to figure out a way to beat him.  
 
Q. Is it difficult to change styles like that?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: We pretty used to it. I wouldn't say so. It depends. Of course,
sometimes it suits you better than other players. We've been beating each other, me and
Alex. I think both of us know that we have a good chance.  
 
Q. Did Mark surprise you by the way he was able to hit the ball, unbelievable
forehands? You thought he was able to do that?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: I mean, I've seen him play a lot of times. He's a very tough, good
player. He do amazing shots sometimes. He's also much more consistent now than he was
before. I don't know what he felt, but I felt like both of us were playing good. 
 
Q. Is that the best match you two played against each other?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: I felt that way.  
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT