EUROCARD OPEN
October 31, 1999
Thomas Enqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ATP:  Questions for Thomas.  
 

Q. There were not so many Swedish fans here. 
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  There were a few, yeah.  
 

Q. But only four. 
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  That's true.  They save themselves for Australia.  
 

Q. Is that the best you've played since you won the Paris Open perhaps three years ago?  How good of a performance do you think it is?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  I think this week is my best week so far.  I've been beating four Top-10 players.  I've been beating Agassi when he's hot, Rios just came from a victory, and Krajicek is a five-time finalist here in Stuttgart.  I think this is my best tournament.  
 

Q. Why now do you think?  You played well earlier in the year, but why does it come to a peak now?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  Very tough to say always.  I've been working very hard the whole year.  After US Open I've been feeling I've been playing good tennis.  I've been losing some close matches.  It was nice to see that I could turn it around here.  Sometimes it is that way, when something tries to turn, it comes all the way.  
 

Q. The secret of your success seems to be your counter-hitting and shots from the baseline. 
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  I think I've been moving also well, to get to the ball.  If I'm going to play as aggressive as I did this week, I have to move well so I can get behind the ball all the time.  I think that was also a big key for me.  
 

Q. What were your expectations when you arrived here?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  Like I said, I felt I was hitting the ball well, you know, the last month.  I knew that this surface should suit my game good.  In this kind of field, you can play well and lose first round still.  I had expectations, but not so far.  
 

Q. In the semifinals you beat Agassi playing very well.  Agassi played from the baseline.  Today you played very well, as well.  Krajicek was going to the net.  You can adjust easily your game against any a kind of opponent?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  Usually I can do it.  Usually I like to play serve and volleyer.  I mean, it's always tough to play Richard because, first of all, he has a huge serve, and second of all, he covers up the net, probably one of the best players in the world to do that.  I knew before the match that I have to play really, really well.  I think this match and my match against Agassi was my best match this week. 
 

Q. When you play a tournament like this week, does it leave you feeling a bit frustrated that you haven't achieved more in your career so far?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  Not really.  I'm very, very happy to be able to put this kind of tennis together for a whole week with this kind of field in this kind of tournament. 
 

Q. Do you feel confident you can keep going?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  I'm going to try. 
 

Q. Richard said you had been playing good tennis and were the better player through most of the match.  He still criticized the call.  How did you see that?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  That was very, very close.  It's tough to say, you know, indoors.  Both me and Richard hits the ball very, very hard, and sometimes close to the lines.  Might be a little bit lucky.  
 

Q. What does Hannover mean to you if you qualify for it?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  I haven't really thought about it too much before this week.  It felt like it was a long way away from me.  Now I have a chance.  I've been playing well.  I like to play in Paris and Stockholm; I've won those tournaments before.  I'm going to do my best to see how it goes.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT