GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 1999
Thomas Enqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. (Inaudible.)

THOMAS ENQVIST: Of course, he has a lot of things to be improved. But I haven't been
playing him before; so, it's tough for me to say today. I felt I was playing pretty good
from the baseline. But for sure, he has a lot of stuff to work on, and I'm pretty sure
he's going to do that.

Q. How about yourself? Are you headed back to the Top 10? Where are you?

THOMAS ENQVIST: It's not unrealistic also for me, because I know that I have the game
to win every tournament I go to and beat every player. But that's not the same thing to be
the Top-10 player. You have to be really consistent and you have to do well in the big
tournaments. I think this year, it's tougher than ever; so many good players out there
that have a chance to win. And sometimes, you can even play pretty well and lose early in
a couple of tournaments. It's tough to say. I don't have a Top-10 ranking goal. But I know
if I play well, I have a chance.

Q. How do you feel health-wise?

THOMAS ENQVIST: Very good, thank you. I've been well the whole year.

Q. Do you think that makes a difference, too, especially in the summer season?

THOMAS ENQVIST: It really helps.

Q. Do you feel twice as good as you did last year?

THOMAS ENQVIST: Well, it's tough to say. It helps you're healthy. For me, it's been
good because I've been able to practice the whole year. I've been struggling a little bit
lately. I haven't been winning that many matches, and that's frustrating. But, you know,
you have to stay positive and hopefully, I can win here.

Q. What's the difference in the mindset when you come into a tournament when you're
57th in the world or you're 30th? Is that a big difference?

THOMAS ENQVIST: It depends I think who you are as a player. If you feel like you can
beat anybody in the draw, I really think it doesn't matter where you rank. Of course it
helps, maybe get a little bit easier so you can get used to the conditions. You usually
play better after the first one or two rounds. But on the other hand, it's different.
There's no easy matches. It doesn't matter who you play or where you rank. So I don't see
it's a big difference. If you're good enough, you're going to have a chance to win
tournaments.

Q. Are you good enough to win the tournament?

THOMAS ENQVIST: I hope so. I have to believe it. Like I said, I've been struggling
lately; so, my confidence is not really up where it should be. But I feel like I'm playing
okay now; so, take it one match at a time.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT