THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 25, 1999
Thomas Enqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GREG SHARKO:  Questions for Thomas.  
 

Q.  Usually reliable groundstrokes we see out of you, where were they?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  I think today I did a pretty bad match.  Have to take my hat off to Richard, of course.  He's playing really well at the moment.  He didn't give me any chances today.  Like you say, I did way too many mistakes to  --. 
 

Q.  Gave you a lot of chances, lot of second serves, couldn't convert?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  Yeah.  I had it tough in the wind.  I was stepping sometimes into the ball too close.  Sometimes the ball was in front of me too much.  I had problems to time it right today.  He was too good.  
 

Q.  Did you have fun?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  The end of the second set, not too much fun, no. 
 

Q.  Did you enjoy the crowd?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  Yeah, it was okay. 
 

Q.  Remembering back to the last time you played him, does he seem like a quicker player today than he did before, foot speed, reactions?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  Well, when I seen him play this week, he seems to be moving really well.  Today was tough to feel.  Too bad I didn't really play as good as I have to do to make him step up a level and to play really a good match.  I think I made it a little too easy for him today.  But he looked really impressive in the matches before here.  
 

Q.  With that kind of court coverage, wing spread, height, how tough is it going to be to beat him in this tournament?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  I think it's going to be very tough.  If he can serve second serves like this, it's going to be very, very tough.  Even when he misses the first one, it's coming a really good second serve.  It's really tough, especially in the wind, to keep the ball low and keep the ball at his feet because it bounces so high.  In the wind, it make it even worse.  I think he's going to be a really tough player here to beat in the final. 
 

Q.  Is it tough for you when you have long rallies for him to prevail in a long baseline rally?  That's supposed to be your strength and not his. 
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  Yeah.  Well, he put a lot of pressure on, as well, when he's serving huge, when he's playing well.  I didn't really get any free points today.  He got a lot of free points.  I felt like I was timing my shots really bad.  I had a lot of pressure on me in my own service game.  I did too many mistakes. 
 

Q.  When he's hitting his approach shots, coming to the net, how difficult is it for you to put that enormous body out of your mind and just concentrate on hitting a passing shot?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  Today he didn't really come too much to the net on the chip-and-charge.  I think he did that once or twice the whole match.  I mean, he was playing very well from the baseline, I felt. Like I say, I made too many mistakes. 
 

Q.  If he becomes a top player from the baseline, how good could this guy become?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  I think he's a very good player, like he is.  I think it's important not to change his game.  He's a serve and volley player.  That's what he do the best.  I don't think he should change that.  It's the same for me.  I mean, when I play well, I play good from the baseline.  Of course, it's good to come to the net sometimes, but I'm not going to ever be a serve and volley player.  
 

Q.  What's your clay court schedule?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  I play three tournaments before the French, I think. 
 

Q.  Where will those be?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  Monte-Carlo, Munich and Rome.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT