THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 25, 1998
Thomas Enqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MIKI SINGH:  First question for Thomas. 
   

Q. Well, the obvious:  what happened?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  I've been having problem with my wrist for a while back and forward.  During the week it's been getting worse.  I think you can ask the trainer.  He can probably explain better than me what you think it is. 
   

Q. Thomas, how important were today the weather conditions, I mean the wind specifically?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  Well, it's tough conditions.  But usually are tough conditions in the Lipton.  I was not thinking about it too much because I have problem just hold my racquets today.  It was tough to play.  When you go out there, you really feel pumped up to play Marcelo, a night match, and you feel like you can't hold your racquet good, you can't hit your forehand.  You get sad, you know, when you looking forward for something, and you in good shape, and you can't go out there and do a hundred percent.  I mean, I have to be really playing really well, be a hundred percent if I'm going to be able to do a good match against Rios.  Too bad I couldn't do that today. 
   

Q. Did you get a sense today of how good he is or was that too short a match?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  Well, yeah, kind of I think. First of all, I didn't really feel like I was -- like I said, it was really a problem to hold my racquet and hit my forehand.  I was more thinking about that maybe than the match.  I mean, he's obviously in good shape.  I'm also in good shape.  I've been playing really good this week.  This was really sad that this happened. 
   

Q. If you have to choose, can you do a prediction, Rios or Henman?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  Well, it's always tough.  But, I mean, you have to say that Rios is a favorite.  I mean, he's been playing really well this year.  He played very good tennis last week in Indian Wells, and also this week here.  But Henman is dangerous player.  When he's on, he can play really well.  Especially when he plays good players, he's very dangerous.  I think it's going to be a really tough match. 
   

Q. Aside from your problems with your wrist and your finger, did you have a specific game plan tonight?  Forget about this one problem, just tactically, strategically?  How would you want to play him if you're really fit?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  Well, I try to play aggressive. Marcelo is really good when he's control you in the rallies.  My tactic today was to go in there, you know, and try to play aggressive, to get him rallying.  If he gets control in the rallies, you're in trouble.  Try to play aggressive. 
   

Q. Thomas, excuse me if I talk about your private  life.  Are you married?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  No, engaged. 
   

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT