RCA TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
August 14, 1996
Thomas Enqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 

Q. You played lot of tennis last week.  Was it nice to get a fairly quick one in to your first one here?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  I think I need to play a lot of matches, that is what I have been missing to do this year and to play all the matches last year -- last week, going to help me to play good this week, I think, so I felt good on the court and I served well, I think, and hopefully I can continue to play well. 
 

Q. You had such great hard court success during this stretch last year.  Just, maybe, assess how you feel your play is in comparison to that right now?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  Right now, I think I am hitting the ball really well and hopefully I can -- like I said, I can continue to play well, but you know, there are a lot of good players out there. You have to play well every match to win, so it is hard to say how you are going to do.  I am just going to  go into every match and try to win and try to play well.  
 

Q. What about going against David Wheaton next, if you have -- you had past history with him maybe a big serve and volleyer like yourself?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  Yeah, he is a good serve and volleyer.  I have been playing him a couple of times and we have some really tough matches, so I have to play well to win, but like I said, I feel confident now.  I am hitting the ball well, so hopefully I can win.  
 

Q. Do you approach a tournament even psychologically any different when you come in knowing, hey, I am the defending champion here; does that put any extra pressure on you or take any off?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  No.  Not really, I think it is more like -- I mean, it is so nice to be back in a tournament that you have such good memories like I have this week, so I don't feel the pressure.  It is more fun to be back -- I don't have that opportunity too many times to be the defending champion, so it has been nice.  
 

Q. How do you feel about having your first match on third day of the tournament, would you rather have started maybe last night?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  No, I asked to play Wednesday because I injured myself a little bit in my leg last week, so it was good for me to take a little easy and to get some treatment on  it and to play today, I think that was good. 
 

Q. Just a thigh muscle?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  Year, pulled my muscle here a little bit (indicating top of thigh)  No big deal.  It was a little bit stiff couple of times.  Now I feel fine. 
 

Q. Talk a little bit about this tournament; what makes this so special; why the players name this tournament of the year eight years now? Is it a special place to play?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  First of all, I think it is a perfect week - just two weeks 'til the U.S. Open starts so everybody wants to play this week to get some matches and get your confidence going before the Open, but then also I mean, this tournament -- this is my fifth year, I think.  I am here, it is the tournament of the year.  They take so good care of you and everything is so easy and well organized.  Probably going to win the tournament of the year this year too, for sure. 
 

Q. They just go out of the way to cater to you.  David Wheaton said there is so much other stuff going on things to do, sometimes it is hard to remember that, yeah, I have got to play a match today?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  Yeah, they have a lot of, you know, stuff off the court too, I mean, for wives and for friends and also for yourself you can do, everything is so easy and it is close.  So well organized.  The food is great and the court is good.  A lot of practice courts.  Everything is just easy and  you don't have to wait for anything.  It is perfect.  They spoil you a little bit. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT