GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 5, 1996
Thomas Enqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Did you expect more of match more or a challenge today than you got from Black?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: Me and Byron have been playing a lot of times. I don't know how many.
But this is the third time this year and we have been other times before. We know exactly
how we play. We know each other's game, so -- I have been winning against him and he has
beaten me so, I mean, of course, you expect a tough match. I have comfortable on the
court. I think I served well. I hit the ball good. Obviously, he was not playing as good
as he can do, but I am happy with the way I played and I am happy to get through it. 
 
Q. Do you think Atlanta had anything to do with today and the heat and so forth and the
humidity and whatnot?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: Both me and Byron were in Atlanta, so we are pretty used to the heat, I
think. I mean, it is humid here and it was humid in Atlanta, takes maybe a couple of days
to get used to it, but after you get used to it, it is okay. 
 
Q. Tell us about your feelings about Atlanta, coming out of that? How did you perceive
all that went on? Were you in the Olympics Village?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: Yeah. I had a great time, one of my best experiences, I think. Too bad
I didn't do that well and I was injured before two weeks and couldn't have a racket for
two weeks and I was not in good shape when I came there, so obviously, it was not the best
preparation for me, just experience to play and win a couple of matches was nice. 
 
Q. How do you feel, for example, about tennis being in the Olympics? How did you feel
-- you participated and so forth and represented your country and so on; how do you feel
about tennis in the--
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: I think it is good for tennis. I am honored to be a part of the Swedish
team. It is good for the tennis; good for the Swedish people, I think. I think it is one
time every fourth year, I mean, I just can't say what the Swedish people think and all the
Swedish players -- if we can represent our country in Davis Cup and Olympics games, we are
going to do that. It is good for the tennis, I think. Tennis is one of the biggest sports
in the world. Why not should it be in one of the biggest events, so I think it is good. 
 
Q. You were injured for two weeks before the Olympics?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: Yeah. 
 
Q. Your injury was?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: I have inflammation in my foot, so I didn't do anything in two weeks. 
 
Q. Which foot was it?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: Left.  
 
Q. How is it now?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: I feel good. 
 
Q. Did your Olympic experience -- is that any kind of extra motivation for you this
week? I mean, you looked like you were focused? Do you feel like you want to get over
that, I guess, the disappointment in the Olympics?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: Yeah, every time you go to a tournament, you really try to do well. But
I don't feel that I have to do well here because I lost third round in the Olympics. I
mean, you know that in every tournament you go to say, it is a lot of good players
playing; if you do not play well, you are probably going to lose. I mean, everybody knows
that. This is just the big, normal tournament for me. I am going to do my best to win
every match I can play. 
 
Q. About the semifinals last year?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: It is always nice to go back to that tournament you have been playing
well in. I played really well here last year, so hopefully, I can play good this year too. 
 
Q. You play the winner of Patrick Rafter and Sergi Bruguera, the silver medalist, how
do you feel about that coming up?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: Both of them are really tough players. Rafter is a serve and volleyer
and Bruguera is a baseliner; doesn't matter who I play. I think I have to play well to
beat them. 
 
Q. Couple times this morning you were up 40-Love and you let Byron score a point or two
before you put it away. Was that concentration or a couple of bad shots during that time?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: No, I don't know why, actually. You are right, though, I just tried to
win every point. That is the way it goes sometimes. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT