IBM/ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 17, 1995
Thomas Enqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Do you feel maybe your level dropped just a little bit in this match as opposed to
the other ones?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: First of all, I have to say that I did a very good match today to the
matches I played before maybe, I mean, I played a little bit out of my mind, and today I
think I played, I mean, I played really well. Otherwise, I can't beat such good players as
Muster, and I think I played, I mean, almost 100% and I think it was a pretty good match. 
 
Q. Do you think these three sets will have some influence on your performance tomorrow?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: Well, I hope not. But it is hard to answer that now. You feel that
tomorrow morning. I think, I mean, it was pretty long match and we have some long rallies,
but I can't answer that now. I mean, if I feel fine tomorrow morning, I am not going to
have any problems to move good tomorrow, I think. 
 
Q. Did you have any set strategy going into this against Muster? 
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: Well, I know that I have to put a lot of pressure on him, and I mean,
to go in for the shots, I mean, sometimes you do a little bit of mistakes, but when you
play a player like Muster, you have to go for the shots and I did that today and I think I
did that very well. 
 
Q. Everybody talked about Thomas Enqvist these days in Frankfurt. Is it a great
pressure for you for tomorrow?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: Yeah, I mean, to play Becker. I never played Becker before, and to play
him, it is going to be a lot of fun and just going to go out on the court and you have
nothing to lose, just go out there and have a lot of fun and, hopefully, do a good match. 
 
Q. Are you ready for the crowd tomorrow?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: Yeah, I mean, I think I am pretty used to that. I mean, every time you
play a guy who is from the same country that you are playing, of course, they cheer for
him. That is the way it should be. 
 
Q. Do you get upset even when the crowd is going for your opponent?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: No, I think it is more fun to play when the crowd is into the game. I
mean, that is what they are paying for, is come to see good tennis and come to see cheer
for the one to win, I think. So I think that is fair. It is a lot of fun to play when the
crowd is into the game, and it is pretty new for him. I am usually play for 10 people, so
it is more fun to play when it is more. 
 
Q. Being the only player that hasn't been defeated here improves your confidence for
tomorrow?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: Yeah, I think I am very big favorite for the title now. (LAUGHTER). No,
of course, I have been playing very good three matches, and it is just, I mean, like I
said before, it is a lot of fun to be here and I am feeling in very good shape, so, I am
going to have confidence when I step on the court tomorrow and when you go out on the
court, you try to win. 
 
Q. What is your first memory of Becker, Thomas?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: First memory? Well, I watched him on TV when he won Wimbledon, '85. 
 
Q. Do you remember that very clearly watching that match?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: Yeah. 
 
Q. What did you think of him at that point watching him play?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: Well, he had a little bit different kind -- he was the first one --
first player that played the way he played and he was maybe the first one who played with
a lot of power. I mean, you had big servers before who was -- could hit the ball hard from
backhand, forehand, volley, and serve and he was the new generation coming up, and I think
a lot of young guys looked up to him and that is why, I mean, tennis looks like it is
right now, I think. 
 
Q. And yourself, because you obviously are a power player and you are a big guy like he
is. Did he have influence on your game?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: I think so, But I didn't look at him and I tried to do exactly like
him. A lot of coaches watched him play and you learned that -- I mean, maybe you just
can't stay back and put the ball back anymore; that you have to -- you have to continue to
improve and I think that, I mean, a lot of coaches in Sweden saw that and that is why they
teach me like I am playing. 
 
Q. Did you dream of playing Becker when you were growing up?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: No, not really. I mean, it is a lot of fun to play him. 
 
Q. Have you seen a match of him in these days?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: Yeah, I saw the match today.  
 
Q. What did you think about his performance?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: I think he served really well today. I didn't see the whole match. But
what I saw I think he served really well and I think Kafelnikov was playing -- the second
set, I think, Kafelnikov played really well and he had some chances there, but I think
Becker was serving well today, and hopefully he is very sore tomorrow. 
 
Q. Your net play today, is that something that is typical? Are you going to have to
work on that or what?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: You mean that I missed a lot of volleys? 
 
Q. Yes.
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: Because I was feeling that I hit the volley good today. But, yeah, we
work a lot on going to the net, I think, I had some chances today to go to the net even
more, but Thomas is so fast and he puts the ball low back; it is hard to go to the net
against him. I am not really used to that, but I tried to do that more in the third set
and I think I did that pretty well in the end. 
 
Q. You have heard about the problems with Steffi Graf with the taxes in Germany. You
are a client of IMG. Do they do all the financial stuff for you?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: Yes, they do. 
 
Q. You have control; you know everything?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: I know what is going on, yeah. I am not going to jail. 
 
Q. Another thing, what do you do with your earnings? Do you buy buildings or -- what is
--
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: No, I don't buy buildings, no. 
 
Q. What are you doing with your money?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: I don't tell you. 
 
Q. He is going to buy the White Sox.
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: Sorry? 
 
Q. Nothing.
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT