IBM/ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 15, 1995
Thomas Enqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Thomas, you looked like you could have beaten anybody today. Could you have beaten
Sampras?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: Well, it is hard to say, but I think this is one of my best matches in
my life, I think. I was hitting the ball so good. Everything was working. I mean, a lot of
luck every time I hit the ball in the net, it went over anyway. I think I did one of my
best matches in my life, and it just was so much fun to play out there, you are so excited
to be here and I mean, I am in good shape. I won the tournament last week in Stockholm, so
I feel very confident and I am very happy with the way I played. 
 
Q. You won in Stockholm, did it help your popularity in Sweden? Are you now the No. 1
there?
 
 THOMAS ENQUIST: I am No. 1 ranking-wise. 
 
Q. But...
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: And of course, it helps. They know a little bit more who you are. They
have seen you playing and they have seen you on TV. Hopefully, it makes it good for tennis
in Sweden and hopefully the sport is getting more popular. 
 
Q. It wasn't so popular the last few years?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: Well, it is popular, but maybe ice hockey and soccer have taken over a
little bit. We had a lot of good players during the '80s, and I mean, we still have a lot
of good players, but not like the top 10 like we had before, so I mean, the Swedish tennis
club gets spoiled. They don't think you are good enough if you are 20 and 15. 
 
Q. Thomas, what was it that made your game so good today; something happen?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: Yeah, it is hard to say. One of those days that you feel that you can
hit any ball and always everything goes in, I think. I served well, and I returned serve
well, and I was moving good on the court, so I just had very good hit on the ball, I
think. 
 
Q. Because you haven't had a lot of success against him in the past, is it the fact
that this court suits you better perhaps too or does it show how much progress you have
made in the past --
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: I have to play 100% to have a chance to beat him. Like you said, I
think I lost to him four times before. He is a very tough opponent, very tough player. He
obviously didn't play his best today. It is a lot of fun to play him. He is one of the
best players in the world. You can go out and you can just know you have a good chance if
you play good. It is a lot of fun to play him, I think. 
 
Q. Who are the prospects now, next opponents in your group?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: Well, I mean, I am just looking forward to every match. I am enjoying
to play a lot. The first time here, you are pumped up and excited. It is going to be a lot
of fun. Hopefully. I am going to step out on the court and do a good match. 
 
Q. You have got a lot of confidence?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: Yeah, I mean, after a match like this you feel like you are hitting the
ball good and -- but like I said I need to play 100% to have a chance to, I mean, to do
good matches here and hopefully I am going to do that. 
 
Q. What do you do between matches, do you just go to your hotel room and relax?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: Yeah, something like that. 
 
Q. Can, yeah, more --
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: Well, I do practice. Not today, though. I do practice before the match
and then you go back and eat and relax. 
 
Q. Thomas, you won in Auckland in January, you won in Stockholm in November and you had
an incredible year in between. How comes you don't seem to feel tired at the end of such
incredible long year?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: When you are in Frankfurt for the first time you don't feel if you are
tired or not. You are just so excited to be here. I think I had some problems with my
shoulder last couple of weeks, but you know, when you are here, you don't think about it
too much, you are just so excited to be here. 
 
Q. But you looking forward to your holidays, I think, after that?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: Yeah. 
 
Q. Thomas, you were reaching about every ball and Courier wasn't. Were you hitting the
ball that well or was he dogging it or what?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: I don't know. You have to ask him. 
 
Q. What was your feeling?
 
 THOMAS ENQVIST: Well, like I said, I think I hit the ball very well today. And I don't
know, I mean, like I said I don't think he played his best, though, but I just can tell
you about me. You have to ask him.  
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT