IBM/ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 13, 1995
Thomas Enqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. At the beginning of the year did you think you would be playing in Frankfurt with
the best players in the world?

THOMAS ENQVIST: No, I didn't. End of last year I had surgery on my right knee and so I
didn't expect anything. So I just -- I just sort of tried to get -- just play and see if I
can play and I get very good start of the year, winning a lot of matches and (Inaudible.).

Q. What is your secret?

THOMAS ENQVIST: I try to play my game. This year, I think I have been more steady, been
playing well; not just -- playing a lot of good weeks. I have been moving much better.
Working a lot on the movement on the court. I think I do that much better. I think -- it
is a long way to be good. You have to work very hard. It is not this year. I have been
working hard for five, six years now and you get very excited when you get -- I mean, to
compete with the best players in the world; now you know you are on the right way and you
try to improve even more.
THOMAS ENQVIST: We have been working for three years. We have been working a long time.
It is not just this year. It takes time to be a good player, I think, and it is a lot of
good players out there and sometimes you play good for a while and-- there are a lot of
good players out there. We have been working hard for three years.

Q. What makes it difference to play in a Grand Slam tournament and to play here in the
ATP Final? What did you expect?

THOMAS ENQVIST: I haven't expected anything. I am just happy to be here. I think it is
very good for my tennis to be here and to play with the best players in the world.

Q. Who is your favorite?

THOMAS ENQVIST: I think all of the players have a chance. Obviously this surface suits
Sampras and Becker. I think they are the favorites. Like I said, only good players are
here, so anybody can win.

Q. What do you think about Muster on this surface?

THOMAS ENQVIST: He showed this year that he can play really good on indoor court too.
He won Essen. He beat Sampras there. Very impressive. He is having a good season; won many
titles.
THOMAS ENQVIST: I start to practice. We have a long season, so during December you
should try to prepare yourself as good as possible to do the beginning next year.
THOMAS ENQVIST: I feel confident. Played very good last week, so I feel very good.
THOMAS ENQVIST: I have the knee surgery end of the last year. The important thing to me
was to start the year off to feel that I can play and to be free from injuries and I had
really good start of the year. Played a lot of matches. And when you win a matche, you
know you have a chance when you can beat the best players in the world.

Q. Sampras said you may be one of the toughest opponents at the moment. Are you
surprised with this consideration or do you think that it is based on the match where you
had matchpoint?

THOMAS ENQVIST: I think it is a lot of good players in this tournament. You can play
very good tennis. You can still lose every match. I am very happy that Pete said that, but
I think you have a lot of good players out there and I don't know how to answer that
question.

Q. Swedish tennis has a great tradition. Do you think it is more the talent or working
hard?

THOMAS ENQVIST: Working hard. 

Q. What does that mean?

THOMAS ENQVIST: I have been practicing a lot. Practicing a lot with footspeed on the
court. That is one of the reasons I think I have been doing well this year that I am
moving much better on the court. Of course you need a little bit talent, a little bit
tenniswise, but it is a lot of hard work.

Q. What is your weakness?

THOMAS ENQVIST: I don't want to say. I need to practice more; to come in after my
serve; to play more volleys. That is why what we try to work on.

Q. Thomas, there was a time when they said that in Sweden the young player boys were
going to play tennis within five, seven o'clock in the morning before going to school.
Have you ever done that?

THOMAS ENQVIST: No. I am too tired in the morning. I never go out so early.

Q. What has been your biggest sacrifice?

THOMAS ENQVIST: I don't think I sacrificed anything because tennis was the thing that I
really wanted to do and that is the thing I like to do most, so I felt lucky that I could
do the thing that I like to do.

Q. Who was your idol? 

THOMAS ENQVIST: Not particular, but I look back to all the Swedish tennis players, all
of them.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT