LAVER CUP
September 20, 2019
Dominic Thiem
Thomas Enqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. THIEM/D. Shapovalov   
6-4, 5-7, 13-11   
Team Europe - 1   
Team World - 0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How did you feel today? Can you tell us a little bit of your emotions entering the court and having this first match for Team Europe, first win?  
DOMINIC THIEM: Yeah, I mean, the atmosphere and the emotions were outstanding. It was really unbelievable. Honestly, I never heard something louder in my life than when Roger entered the court before the match. Was unbelievable. Then the atmosphere in the match was also great.   
I think of course both of us, we are not the top of our game, that's for sure, but the match was super exciting because it was pretty close all the time. And then I think he saved match points, two match points. I saved two match points. And at the end I got the win. So emotion-wise and everything was amazing.   
 Q.  So yesterday during a Q&A you kind of referred to Roger as being the top ice man of the team, but you held your composure quite well as you went into the breaker. Talk about that a little bit and how the team was supporting you.  
DOMINIC THIEM: I was very tight in the breaker, and there is sometimes in tennis mostly luck if you win these matches. I could also sit here and then lost and I would be way less happy.   
Now I won, and it's great, of course. But especially in this format with the match tiebreak, very little things decide. I mean, for example, it was, I don't know, match point down, I think, and I played this forehand. He had no challenge remaining. I don't know if it was good or not, so in tennis, especially in this format, everything is possible.   
That's why I'm happy that I was able to give the first point to my team.   
 Q.  Down the three match points that you saved, was it feeling a little bit like a shootout with a Russian Roulette out there? What were your thoughts with those match points that you were facing?  
DOMINIC THIEM: I'm always way less tight when I face match point than when I have one, so I was two, I think, I was saving great, and the one was of course lucky when he made a first serve and I was returning ten meters behind the baseline, hitting it too late but very flat and uncomfortable for him.   
So if you're match point down, well, for me, I don't think too much. I just try to save it. That's what worked out today.   
 Q.  At the end of the second set, your teammates run to you and looks like they were saying something to you. You left the court, as well. Can you just tell us what kind of tip that they give you or what did they say?  
DOMINIC THIEM: Yeah, they said that all is good, because, I mean, it was a good match, it was very close. I was full power into the match all the time, so they said that I should keep it up and that I don't need to worry if he plays great points, because if he does it all the tiebreak, I go there and I say, Well done. But I need to fight every point, and that's what I did and it paid off in the end.   
 Q.  What's it like when it comes to nervousness at the Laver Cup? Are you a little bit more nervous, less nervous when it comes to having a team around you?  
DOMINIC THIEM: It's funny, because at one point I'm more nervous because I have the feeling I play also for all the others. I'm playing not only for myself but for Team Europe. That makes me more nervous.   
But on the other hand, I still had this little feeling in the back of my head that if I lose the point it's fine, because the other team is amazing. They're going to win it also without the point of me. So it's a funny thing. It's similar to Davis Cup.   
 Q.  A question for Thomas, actually. What would Laver Cup look like if it were to be staged in your generation of players? Did you ever consider this?  
THOMAS ENQVIST: You mean playing as a player is playing?   
 Q.  Back in the day when you were active.  
THOMAS ENQVIST: Yeah, this we would have, like, Edberg and Becker and Krajicek and Ivanisevic, and Europe would have a very strong team, as well. Mats Wilander.   
Then Europe [sic] with Sampras and Rafter and Agassi. I think it would be very competitive, as well.   
That's what makes this great so event. I think Dominic's match was incredible. It felt like we picked up where we started last year where everything is very, very even and tight. And this concept, it's great for that, you know, with two sets and a tiebreak. And Team World having young, very motivated players coming out swinging.   
I mean, I thought today, I mean, this is the first match coming in, and the quality of the match was incredible. I mean, it's an honor to sit there and watch these guys play.   
Again, Dominic came through with not only playing well but showing his fighting spirit, always play with your heart on his sleeve. You cannot have a better team player than this.   
 Q.  When you're playing a match like that, is it a bit of a pinch-me moment when you've got the likes of Rafa and Roger, Stefanos and all that sitting courtside and Björn is right next to you, Thomas is behind you? Is it easy to put something like that out of your mind when you're actually in the middle of a match or going out there for it?  
DOMINIC THIEM: It's, for sure, everything else than normal if all these legends and amazing players are sitting there and cheering and are there with all their heart to support me, to give me the point, to help me to take the point.   
But at the end it's really only positive, because they have all such a great aura and such a great support. Well, I would like to have this support every single week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT