U.S. OPEN
September 1, 1995
Thomas Enqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What is your explanation, Thomas? What happened?

THOMAS ENQVIST: Well, he was too good.

Q. How did you play?

THOMAS ENQVIST: Well, I was not hitting the ball good, I think. I don't know. I just
felt like my game is to play aggressive and when I tried to play aggressive today, I
missed. I mean, I was tired, so I tried to slow down and when you slow down against him,
he played very well.

Q. Missing alot today with your long strokes?

THOMAS ENQVIST: Yeah.

Q. On a day like that, you wish you had good topspin shots to make adjustments for you?

THOMAS ENQVIST: I tried to hit a little more topspin, but when I do that, he can step
into the court. That is what happened.

Q. Did you think you could have turned it around, you had about what, five breakpoints
at the end when you were matchpoint, breakpoint; do you think you could have still got
into it then?

THOMAS ENQVIST: Yeah, the match is not over. So I think I had a chance. I was not
playing well the whole match, so I just tried to fight and it didn't work out.

Q. How much did your long match against Rios take out there?

THOMAS ENQVIST: I mean, today I have two days off, so no problem.

Q. Not really a factor?

THOMAS ENQVIST: Oh, no.

Q. This is not what you want to remember going into an important Davis Cup match. How
will you try to erase this from your memory.

THOMAS ENQVIST: I haven't been thinking about that at all. When you are in the U.S.
Open, that is what you try to concentrate on, so I mean, of course you are very
disappointed when you play bad, I just have to try to work harder.

Q. Anything you think you could do differently for the Slams; anything that you can
change the way you prepare for them?

THOMAS ENQVIST: I don't know. I think I have been playing well for a while and I mean,
it little bit up and down; you could have a good day. If you are not feeling you are
hitting the ball well, there are a lot of other good guys out there so...

Q. Some people in the tennis community had been predicting you to win this tournament.
How did you feel?

THOMAS ENQVIST: Of course when you go to a tournament, you try to win it. I didn't
think about that. I know that I had to play very good to win every match and this year I
didn't play well and then I lost.

Q. You had, really, your best year and you have had tournament victories, but does
something like this make the rest of the year seem a little sour for you?

THOMAS ENQVIST: Yeah, I mean, you want to do well in the Slams. I have been having a
very bad year in the Grand Slams this year, so I don't know, I mean, I tried my best, but
I have been not playing well in one Grand Slam this year.

Q. What are you doing in between the Davis Cup? Are you playing somewhere the week
after next?

THOMAS ENQVIST: No.

Q. Staying over here, the Swedish team?

THOMAS ENQVIST: I don't know. I haven't thought about that.

Q. Have you ever been to Las Vegas?

THOMAS ENQVIST: No.

Q. Do you like to gamble?

THOMAS ENQVIST: Not that much.

Q. Thomas, just about Byron, do you think he has got the game to surprise some more
people in this tournament if he keeps playing like that?

THOMAS ENQVIST: I mean, everybody is very good. I think he is returning serve very well
and I think he has a chance to play well, but I mean, it is very hard to say. It is better
to say he is a very good player and if he is playing well, he probably could do very good.

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT