RCA CHAMPIONSHIPS
August 19, 1995
Thomas Enqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 

Q.  Thomas, Goran was just saying he hopes he never has to see you again.
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  Well, we played a lot of tight matches and if you play Goran, it is one or two points who can decide who is going to win the match. If he gets a break, I mean, start to serve well, it is like he did in the second set, it is not that much you can do, I think, but I think -- I mean, I have been playing very well for the last month and when I went out on the court didn't do my best; had no pressure on me.  I did very well playing against him.  Next time when we play, he can think about it a little about it.  Now we play every game in a row here, if -- I mean, couple of months or something we play, I mean, maybe could be different story. 
 

Q.  Why are you successful against him when  others aren't?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  It is very hard to say, but I think I have been serving very well when I play him this four times now, that is very important for me to serve well, so I can keep up with him and also I think, I mean, it is easier to play -- I mean, it is not easy, but it is little bit easier to play anyone when is hot outside and it is a little bit sunny, maybe a little bit windy, because I feel and I think he feel also it is harder to serve good for a long time when it is very hot outside.  I think everybody is feeling that, so, but I mean, I have to play very good to have a chance to beat him and I have done that now four times, so I am very happy. 
 

Q.  I assume you will have a smile on your face next time you see him in your part of the draw?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  No, actually, I mean, he is a very tough opponent, and it is not the guy you want to face other side of the net, I think because, you know, if he has the day when his serve is on, I mean, it is nothing you can do about it.  So he is a very tough opponent. 
 

Q.  He thought maybe that this one compared to the other three times you played was maybe a little bit looser for both of you; not as well played by both -- 
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  Well, I mean, it is strange to play a guy four weeks in a row.  I mean, today's match was -- I started off good and he didn't put any first serves in in the first set there, and then he got early break, start serve better in the second and he played well; then up to 3-2, it could go either way. He had, 2 -- hit 2 doublefaults; missed 2 easy shots, that was the key of the match.  I served very well in the third set. 
 

Q.  He told us last night he was going to change his strategy a little and he was going to lose the first set and then win the next two.  Obviously that didn't happen.  Did you think at all of that?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  No, I mean, things were different.  No, I just tried to win every point I can. You don't try to lose first set when you play No. 7 in the world.  You are happy if you can take the set. 
 

Q.  How would you rate your performance today compared to your previous matches this week?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  I think I played very good today.  I think I served very well today.  I think I played very good yesterday.  I did a very good match yesterday.  So the last two matches, I think I have been hitting the ball really well, so I am very happy  the way I played right now. 
 

Q.  How would you describe Karbacher's game?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  Well, he has a very good backhand, I think, and I think -- I mean, some weeks when he is on, he can play amazing tennis.  He has been doing that this week, so I am going to have a very tough time with him I need to serve well.  I need to play my game and to put pressure on him.  I am going to try to do that, but it is going to be a very tough match, I think. 
 

Q.  Thomas, earlier this year in Philadelphia when you beat Agassi and Chang back-to-back to win the title over there, you were saying at that stage that you were still not totally certain about your own feelings on the circuit; it was still a learning experience, but things have really taken off since then; haven't they?  How do you feel now.
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  I have really good year this fall.  Still, I think him hopefully I am improving, I mean, still have to learn a lot and still have to improve a lot to be, I mean, consistent, to be a top player, I think.  That is what I am going to try to do.  The more matches I can play like this against the best players, the more I learn.  When you beat them and  if you play tight match against them, you know that you are on the right way.  That feels good. 
 

Q.  Every so many years there has been one Swede that has really come out of the pack.  Wilander, Borg, Edberg, etcetera, etcetera.  Do you think that for the next three, four, five years, that the next Swede will be yourself?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  Well, I hope so.  I am going to do my best to be as good as I can be, but it is a very tough out there.  You see today, I mean, is maybe in the week before this, I mean, everybody knows who Karbacher was; you see, he is playing amazing tennis; he beat Sampras; beat a lot of good players, and I mean, it is so tough right now when you have to play good from the first point and from the first match to win your games. 
 

Q.  You had this great run, but winning this tournament, what would that be if you win the tournament heading into the Open?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  A finalist is always important.  You don't feel that good if you lose the final.  I mean, second sucks a little bit.  When you go to a final, you always -- I mean, you are in good shape and the guy you are playing is also in good shape and you know, it is going to be tough.  You are going to do  100%.  That is why you come to the tournaments to win it. 
 

Q.  Confidence-wise heading into the Open to have that title --
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  Yeah, that is very important, but like I said, I mean, to get to the Open, I mean, you have to be focused from the first round and you have to -- I mean, I know that I had to play really well, I mean, to win my first round, I can't take it easy for the first couple of rounds there, I mean, I have to really focus, but it is important to get good confidence and to play well.  I think I am doing that right now. 
 

Q.  What did Nystrom say to you before the match?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  I know Goran's game a little bit now.  I mean, I just tried -- he told me that I mean, I just tried to play my game, I think as much as possible, it is not -- I mean, it is very hard to do strategy against Goran because I mean, if he puts his first serve in its not that you something aim for something you just have to try to get your racket on the ball, but I mean, when you serve by yourself, I try to get him running and to get him moving so he makes some mistakes.  I think I have been doing that pretty well.  
 
GREG SHARKO:  Anything else for Thomas? 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT