RCA CHAMPIONSHIPS
August 18, 1995
Thomas Enqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  It comes as no surprise, but if Goran meets you, he is not looking forward to it?

THOMAS ENQVIST:  Well, maybe he does, because he really don't want to lose to me four times in a row.   But like I said, he has to win today also, but I think he has a good chance, but I mean, Alberto, he is a very good player and if Goran is not playing good, he is going to have a very tough match with him.  If I play Goran, I mean, I am going to think like I fought for the other matches, I really have to play good.  He is 7th in the world.  I think he has the pressure on him.  I just have to play very, very good to have a chance to beat him.  He is a very good player, so...


Q.  How was the match today?

THOMAS ENQVIST:  I think I played really well today.  I start served really well.  Didn't have any  problems in my service game and -- I served well.  I could make pressure in his service game because you can play really out --


Q.  You were able to put it away with ease that second set.  Was he running out of gas, too, at that point or were you just dominating?

THOMAS ENQVIST:  It was important because I played really well in the end of the first set there, and then I got early break and I was serving well and if you are up like 6-3, 4-1, it is still just one break; then I can play more out and he will have to come in and stay in the match.  I did some good shots there in the two last games, so...


Q.  What did you do while you were waiting around?

THOMAS ENQVIST:  There is a lot of things to do in the player's lounge.


Q.  Obviously this is the 16th in 4 last four weeks.  You just have to feel the confidence each and every time out, just keep going, I guess?

THOMAS ENQVIST:  Yeah, I have been playing really well this summer, and I just-- I think this is very important to me to get those matches and to play a lot of tennis -- to play a lot of times against the best players in the world.  You learn a lot from that.  That helps me to improve, I think, so it is very important to me to play these matches.


Q.  Obviously with the run you have had, you are considered a force in the Open; looking forward to that?

THOMAS ENQVIST:  Yeah, I think I am in very good shape.  I am looking forward to the U.S. Open.  I hope I can do well.  Like I said, you have to play good from the first match to win every game, so I am just -- I mean, I have confidence right now and I believe in myself, so I just hope I am going to do well.


Q.  You feel this schedule as intense as it has been for you - I know you have a week off, but is that  -- do you think -- will you have well prepared for three out of five sets?

THOMAS ENQVIST:  Yeah, I mean, at least I get match practice, so, yeah I am going to take the next week off and practice.  When you play U.S. Open you don't feel like you are mentally tired because you are so pumped up anyway.  I think that is the most important thing is to be mentally prepared because physically, I mean, of course you can be tired physically, but I mean, if you have a week to rest on and to practice on, I mean, I am not going to be sore or anything.  The thing is if you play a lot maybe you  go through to the smaller tournaments you are little bit mentally tired and in that way you are tired, but when you go to the U.S. Open, you are so pumped up because it is a Grand Slam.


Q.  Pete has done Pizza Hut commercials and Nike.  Do you do any commercials?

THOMAS ENQVIST:  No.


Q.  Would you like to?

THOMAS ENQVIST:  No, I don't know, nobody asked me.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT