RCA CHAMPIONSHIPS
August 17, 1995
Thomas Enqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 

Q.  Just maybe if you could talk a little bit about the relative ease you had in the first and last set in contrast to the second set?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  Yeah, I think I got a very good start today.  I was playing really well in the beginning.  I served well and after you play such a good set, 6-Love, you always get a little bit of a down period and I got that, I think, and he was playing a little bit better also, so -- but I think I started off the third set good and sharp and then I was serving very well in the second set -- in the third set. 
 

Q.  Did you refocus after that thinking -- were you concerned at all after dropping that second set?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  Yeah, I mean, you are always concerned when you lose a set, but I thought I was hitting the ball pretty well.  He was just playing a little bit better and I didn't put my first serve in and that was a little bit -- lost a little bit of concentration, I think, but I mean, the third set I  played really well. 
 

Q.  Have you ever run across Jerome before or have you -- have you ever played Jerome anywhere before or seen him play?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  I see him play.  But I never played him before.  Today he played my best friend Nicklas, so he beat him, so I mean, he is a very good player, he beat Courier.  He is in good shape, so I have to play very good to beat him. 
 

Q.  You never want to look ahead.  But Goran made a comment that he doesn't want to see you on the other side of the net.  It would be kind of ironic to have that happen four weeks in a row?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  It doesn't matter.  Either guy you play, you have to play very good to win.  I mean, I am just going to try to do my best tomorrow and then I have another match to play and I have to play good to win.  Nothing you think about.  It is very strange that we play three weeks in a row. 
 

Q.  You get to a point where you almost think your luck runs out; you don't want to run into him again or --
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  No, I mean, you don't think like that.  When you play such a good player like Goran you know that is going to be a very tight match and it  is more things that are going to decide who is going to win the match, I think, and I have obviously been playing very well when I played him.  First time he had matchpoint and second time it was very close match, so I had, I mean, the point on my side in those matches. You never know what is going to be next time. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT