RCA CHAMPIONSHIPS
August 16, 1995
Thomas Enqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 

Q.  You continue to play well?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  Yeah, I think I have been playing a really good this summer.  When you are playing good for a while, your confidence is rising and you are winning and you are playing good on the tight shots and big points and I did that in the first set today and then in the second set I played good and I served good served good the whole match. 
 

Q.  Last weekend you said you basically just ran out of gas last Saturday against Andre.  Were you able to get a couple of days off?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  Yeah, I took two days off. 
 

Q.  So you feel a lot better now?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  Yeah, I didn't do anything. I was really tired.  So I think I need that two days, so, yeah. 
 

Q.  You said you felt like you are on top of your game as you come here, are you recharged, refreshed  now?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  Yeah, I hope so.  I think today it was really warm and hot outside, so today you get tired a little bit today, but I think everybody did that, I mean, I hope -- I think I am hitting the ball good, so I hope I can continue to play well and I am going to do my best in every match and see how far I can go. 
 

Q.  You talked about your confidence increasing. You are playing the better players now, you are starting to beat the better players for the first time.  Is that part of your confidence now?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  Yeah, I mean, that is very important, I think, feeling that you can play good tennis and you feel that you can beat or play the good tight matches with the best players in the world.  When you do that, you feel that you are on the right way and just to work hard and try to continue to play well and to get a high level in your game. 
 

Q.  What are the expectations of you back in your country?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  Well, I don't know.  I don't feel any expectations so much, I think, because we have a lot of good Swedish tennis players and we always have a lot of good tennis players in Sweden, so the press in  Sweden is not really happy if you are not No. 1 in the world or win Grand Slams or something like that; when -- they have high -- when they have high expectations on you, it is very tough to do those kind of things. 
 

Q.  Are they continually waiting for the next Borg?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  We had so many players on the ranking list, so I think the Swedish tennis fans and the press get pretty spoiled about that.  You always have someone in the final in the Grand Slams and always get good players, four in top 10 once; after that, of course, it is going down a little bit and they didn't think it was good enough to be top 30 or top 20, but it is coming back now.  It is more positive right now.  We won Davis Cup last year, and so I think it is on its way back again. 
 

Q.  Have you heard the Borg comparison to you; does every young guy who comes along automatically is going to be the next Borg?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  No.  Nobody compares with Borg.  He is a living legend in this world, nobody is going to be like him.  So, no idea to think that way. 
 

Q.  Many people around the game a lot feel that you are the next generation for the Swedes.  There was  Borg; then there was Mats; and then there was Stefan.  Most people think feel Thomas is next.  Does that flatter you?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  I hope so.  I am going to do my best to be as good a player I can be, but we have a lot of good Swedes right now, Bjorkman, is Apell is playing well and Magnus Larsson is playing very, very well now for a year now.  He is injured right now; that is why he is not here playing.  I think it looks pretty good.  We have 3 top 20 players and I don't know that is just one outside top 20, so right now, I think it is looking really good for Sweden. 
 

Q.  Do you ever talk with people like Stefan or Mats and how they dealt with those expectations; have they tried -- have you gotten any advice from them on how to deal with it?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  You don't talk about that. Like I said, I don't think I feel that in anyway because I have my own expectations, and from my coach also, so we just try to get a high level on my game and to improve my game.  That is the most important thing, I think, right now. 
 

Q.  Hard courts your best surface?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  Yes. 
 

Q.  Last four weeks, maybe hopefully continue the  best -- maybe one of the best of your career consecutive weeks where you are enable to play ...
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  Yeah, I think I have been in semis now in Super 9 tournaments; never been that before, so, yeah. 
 

Q.  What is this on your shirt here?  Are you a big hockey fan?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  Yeah. 
 

Q.  Philadelphia?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  Yeah, that is the Swede, Renberg, he is playing for the Flyers. 
 

Q.  Do you know him well?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  I met him in Philadelphia this year. 
 

Q.  Did you ever play it?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  I played some, yeah. 
 

Q.  Why didn't you stay with it; you could be on that line?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  I could be right wing. 
 

Q.  You say the right wing is not good?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  He is good.  But I didn't want to take Mikael and the other one away. 
 

Q.  Do you get a chance when you play tournaments to see much hockey?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  Well, I have a team I  support in Sweden.  When I am back in Sweden I go see them play and I was lucky when I am in the states to go to NHL games.  I did that a couple of times. 
 

Q.  When did you give it up?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  I am still skating a little bit when I am back in Stockholm, but I mean, not playing for the team.  But I was playing when I was really young. 
 

Q.  Were you a goal scorer or goalie?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  I didn't play that much when I was growing up.  Now I am just playing with my friends, so it is hard to say. 
 

Q.  Did you get to see any it when they won the Olympics, the Swedes?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  Yeah, I saw that. 
 

Q.  You saw the final?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  Yeah.  Not live, but I saw it on TV. 
 

Q.  I mean, your hopes going into the U.S. Open since you are playing well on hard courts I would think they are pretty high?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  I am -- I hope I am going to do well in the U.S. Open.  I have been playing good in the U.S. Open two years ago and last year reached the third round, so I played some good tennis, but I know  that it is so tough right now, so I have to play very good to win every match.  I am just going to try to do my best; see how far I can go. 
 

Q.  With the heat like it is, is it to your advantage, you think, to be young?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  I don't know.  It is hard to say.  I think I have been practicing really hard before I came here, so I think I am fit.  But I think it is very much from day-to-day.  I think some days you don't feel the heat at all.  Some days you just run out of gas if you been playing a lot and have a tough match the day before, so it is very much, I think, it is good to maybe have a day off between matches and it is hard to play everyday and if you have a tough match, and then go out and play the day after, you feel the heat much more than when you do when you get out there and you are fit from the beginning. 
 

Q.  Now that you are on this kind of roll right now, do the other players react to you differently, I mean, do they treat you with more respect?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  No.  It's the same.  I think on the Tour everybody respects everybody.  It is not -- I mean, I have my friends and most of them are Swedes, and I mean, we treat each each other even if somebody is playing better than the other or sometimes some are  playing bad, we treat each other the same way.  We have a lot of fun together. 
 

Q.  How did you get along with Tarango today?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  I practiced wi him.  Never have problem with him.  I had think he is a nice guy. 
 

Q.  You had a problem with the stamina last week in Cincinatti.  Are you concerned about that cropping up at the U.S. Open because of the five set matches?
 
THOMAS ENQVIST:  I hope not.  I think I have been playing really much before that and I had a tough match the day before also and it was a lot of players out there who was pretty tired, I think, Sampras was tired there and I think Knowles in the final in doubles, he was really bad, so it was also extremely hot on the court there, so I think that was pretty -- I mean, it is nothing you think about.  Now I am just going to forget that and play. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT