U.S. OPEN
August 31, 1993
Thomas Enqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How does this rate as far as all the wins that you have had in the pros?  How would you compare this to the best wins you have had?

THOMAS ENQVIST:  Well, this is the biggest one I have had-- to beat him on center court.  It is the biggest one.


Q. Why the Yankee hat?

THOMAS ENQVIST:  Well, I just bought it.  I like the Yankees.


Q. Have you seen them play?

THOMAS ENQVIST:  Not life, but I watch them on TV all the time.


Q. Thomas, do you think it was you playing well and him not playing so well, a combination, or are you just playing really well these days?

THOMAS ENQVIST:  You don't think about that when you are playing.  You just try to concentrate on your game.  I was playing very well, I think, in the fourth and the fifth set.  I played very well.


Q. Did this start last week?  Was it something that changed that you have gotten up a level?

THOMAS ENQVIST:  When you win a few matches, I beat good players, then you get more confidence and then you know that you can beat good players.  So that has happened a lot.


Q. When it went to two sets a piece, did you think you were losing control of the match?

THOMAS ENQVIST:  You have to think that you -- now it is my turn to win.  I mean, you have to think positive, try to win.  So, I just thought that if I could win the first set, I could win the fifth.


Q. Does Agassi represent something special for you?

THOMAS ENQVIST:  Well, yes, a little.  He is a very good player, and you watch him a lot on TV and so-- but when you played him, you don't think about who you play, so-- but he is, I mean, of course.


Q. What were you trying to do against him or what worked?  Were you pleased with-- obviously, you were pleased how it went; did you have any special plan against him?

THOMAS ENQVIST:  I haven't been playing him before, so I didn't know how he was playing and I just watch him on TV and he has a big forehand and is returning good.  You try to get him moving a little bit and try to play your game.


Q. Thank you.     


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT