MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 13, 2019
Devon Bling
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. What was the yardage?   
DEVON BLING: 57 yards.  
   
 Q. Were you surprised at first when it went in, because it landed quite high up on the green.   
DEVON BLING: No, I knew ‑‑ when it landed on the green I knew it was in the water immediately, I didn't give it enough. So a pretty bad mistake, but nothing I can do about it now.   
   
 Q. Good recovery.   
DEVON BLING: Thank you.   
   
 Q. Six birdies on the day, it was a heck of a round for you, are you gaining confidence with every round you play out here?  
DEVON BLING: I am, yeah. Like I said, I'm hitting the ball incredibly well, I'm shaping it both ways with my irons.   
I didn't drive it as well today as the last few days, but still drove it pretty well and, but ball striking and putting and chipping I'm very confident in it.   
Yeah, I missed a couple short putts but it was more speed rather than stroke. It was just, I just hit them a little too hard and hit them through the break and then a little over correction on 16.   
So it was just little things like that but definitely my confidence is growing throughout the week.  
   
 Q. Another Bruin, Patrick Cantlay is having a pretty good round too. What is it about this course today that fits your eyes? Does it remind you of Wilshire or something?  
DEVON BLING: I don't know. I played with Patrick, he's a great player, and I'm really glad he's doing well today. But yeah, I don't know, maybe it's just a good day for the Bruins out here.   
   
 Q. What's it like watching that cut line yesterday, trying to see if you were in or not?  
DEVON BLING: Well, it was stressful, but I just realized that it's all out of my control, I did whatever I could in the morning to put myself in position.   
But, yeah, I've never rooted for professionals to miss a putt, really, in my life, but I don't know, I don't like to wish bad on anybody, but there was a few putts out there where I was just, you know, I was just hoping, just miss this one, and it worked out.   
   
 Q. Will you watch coverage this afternoon? Are you curious to see what that first page of the leaderboard does on this course?  
DEVON BLING: Yeah, I'll probably watch a little bit. Just to see how it's going and see what the pros are doing, what those leaders are doing on the golf course, because obviously they're doing something a little better than us at 1‑ or 2‑over because they're 7‑under. So just to see what they're doing and maybe pick up a few pointers for tomorrow.   
   
 Q. Of the amateurs four of the six made the cut this year, the most since 1999. You're all doing a heck of a job out there.   
DEVON BLING: I guess we got a good group of ams this year, so definitely we are‑‑ I mean, I mean they're all good players, we're all, we all did something to deserve being here and I think it just speaks for itself.  
   
 Q. You handled the big stage pretty well, it's not an easy environment to be playing golf.   
DEVON BLING: I'm enjoying it, I like doing this, this is what I want to do for the rest of my life and I love being out here and playing in front of everybody, so it's a good thing.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT