MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2019
Devon Bling
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. You make a hole‑in‑one on the par‑3. How much does that just add to the experience today?  
DEVON BLING: Oh, I mean, I wouldn't have wanted it any other way. First Masters, first Par‑3, hit a great shot, it went in, and, yeah, that's the best thing that ever happened in the world.  
   
 Q. What did you hit on that?  
DEVON BLING: It was a 113 yards and then the member told me to hit it 120 yards, a little right of the flag and it would go in. So I said, okay, and I pulled it off exactly, I guess, and it went in. I used a sand wedge.   
   
 Q. So you're coachable.   
DEVON BLING: Yes, sir.   
   
 Q. Just tell me what this experience has been like so far, just being here this week?  
DEVON BLING: Well it's been a dream of mine since I was, since I learned how to play golf or even picked up a club, to play here and be a part of this field and it's just an honor to play against all the great players in the world and, yeah, that's just all I could say, it's a dream come true for me.  
   
 Q. Did you want to make that last putt and stay at 5‑under, knowing the history of the Par‑3 Tournament?  
DEVON BLING: I did, yeah, I wanted to make it. But, yeah, I just, honestly, I didn't hit a bad shot off the tee and I think it must have been a little adrenaline pumping on the tee, which is all right, there's bound to be adrenaline. Especially the last hole and having a chance to win.   
But you know what, I had a great time, I made that hole‑in‑one, so it was a win for me for the start of the week.  
   
 Q. When you hit that shot on for your hole‑in‑one, I mean was it right off the club, oh, this has got a shot, or when did it set in on you that this has really a got a chance of going in?  
DEVON BLING: It came off pretty nice and I just was hoping it was flying the right number. And it did, but to me on the tee it didn't look like it was going towards the flag, it looked like it was a little short. And then it kind of disappeared in the shadows and I couldn't see it and then the crowd reacted and I just went wild.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT