U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2018
Devon Bling
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  We'd like to welcome our second U.S. Amateur finalist, Devon Bling, from Ridgecrest, California, 1-up winner over Isaiah Salinda.  Your great play continues.  Tell us about it.  You're advanced to the final of the U.S. Amateur.  
DEVON BLING: You know, coming into today, I was sticking with the same game plan as I have all week.  I hit it incredibly well today, putted well.  All aspects of my game were firing on all cylinders.  It was a battle against Isaiah.  He played really well himself.  I was really happy to come out on top.   
 Q.  What's causing this great play to come out at the U.S. Amateur?  Are you more focused, or how do you attribute that?  
DEVON BLING: I've been working extremely hard on my game, trying to make it really good in every single area, just so when I needed the shot, I'm able to hit it.  Man, I don't know, it's just -- I love feeling the pressure.  I like being nervous out there and knowing that I've got to hit a good shot here, and I've got to make this putt.  I love that feeling.  I think it helps me focus a little bit more.   
 Q.  Looks like you shot 65 to his 66; where does this play right now rank for you in your young career?  
DEVON BLING: Oh, I definitely played well today.  I mean, I wasn't even counting score.  I didn't even know how many birdies I made.  I was just so focused on what I was doing in that moment.  But yeah, it was -- I played really well.  That's all I can say.   
 Q.  How much did the perks of winning today -- did they ever pop into your head at any point during the round?  
DEVON BLING: They did, when I was 1- or 2-up there coming down the stretch.  I was thinking, if I can close this out, it's U.S. Open and Masters.  But my caddie/assistant coach, he kept me grounded throughout the last bit of the round.   
 Q.  You guys laughed a few times out there.  Was he just trying to keep you loose and kind of prevent you from getting too worried about things?  
DEVON BLING: Yeah, yeah.  I mean, he was cracking jokes all day.  We were laughing, having a great time.  Both really happy to be here.  It's an unbelievable place.   
 Q.  Were you surprised when you saw the U.S. Open trophy on the first tee?  
DEVON BLING: Yeah, I was.  That's why I took a long look at it just to soak is in a little bit because of just being that close to it.  But yeah, I was pretty surprised.   
 Q.  You seem pretty subdued right now.  Can you put into words the emotions you're feeling just to get to this point and knowing you're going to be playing here next year in the U.S. Open and probably get an invitation to the Masters and just the whole experience of today?  
DEVON BLING: I'm still soaking it in.  I still don't believe what's happening.  It's going to take me a while before it all settles down.  But it's crazy.  I don't even have words for it.  I mean, I'm beyond happy at this place right here.   
 Q.  Can you share how you got started in the game and perhaps what your hometown golf course has meant for your career and how it helped you as a player?  
DEVON BLING: Yeah, I think I was 18 months old starting to walk.  I was watching my dad hit balls in the garage.  That was before I could walk.  I just watched him hit balls, and I guess from the moment I picked up my first plastic club, I loved it, and haven't stopped loving it since.   
Growing up in Ridgecrest, some could say it is a disadvantage, but we have the one golf course there.  I know everybody there.  They treat me well.  Some of the guys were out here today.  But you know, I can use that course and go out on the course, and I can even take a shag bag out to the course and practice, which most places you can't do that.  I use that to my advantage, and if it weren't for that golf course, I wouldn't be here today.   
 Q.  In that stretch you guys had of really starting at 10, he made a long putt when you had hit a pretty good second shot there.  Were you getting a little bit -- did you ever get -- I saw you kept looking down, not watching him putt.  Were you ever getting a little bit sort of annoyed how you were hitting unbelievable shots but he was still matching with putts?  
DEVON BLING: Not really.  He's a great player, so I expected him to make that putt, and I expected him to hit good shots.  I was just really focused on what I was doing in that moment, and I was just -- no matter what he did, I was trying to make that putt no matter what.   
 Q.  You said 65 on your own ball, not that you were counting, but your opponent tomorrow has also played pretty stellar golf.  What do you think we can expect tomorrow from both of you at a place like Pebble Beach, and just kind of maybe preview what tomorrow will bring?  
DEVON BLING: You know, I can't really say, but I know both of us are going to battle as hard as we can.  He's playing really well.  I'm playing really well.  I'm excited to play him tomorrow.  It's going to be pretty exciting.   
 Q.  You've been playing in the afternoons, and it was a really pretty quick turnaround, wasn't it, today?  
DEVON BLING: It was, yeah.  I had to adjust a couple yardages playing in the morning, especially when the fog rolled in.  It got a little cold outside.  Almost put the jacket back on.  But yeah, ball was flying a couple yards shorter than normal, so we just kind of adjusted on the fly there.  But yeah, it was definitely a little different.   
 Q.  The third hole was up today; did you have much difficulty with that decision?  Did that catch you off guard?  
DEVON BLING: No.  They told us on the first tee.  I knew it was there, but I wasn't focused on that hole until I got there.  But on the tee, it just felt right, the wind was right, yardage was good.  So I just gave it a go.  If it feels comfortable, I give it a go.   
 Q.  Is this your favorite course in the world now given that you seem to be playing it quite well?  
DEVON BLING: It is one of my favorite courses by far.  Even before I started playing when I got here, it was like, wow, this is crazy, just being here, knowing that the U.S. Open was here and Jack was here and everything is just unbelievable.  Yeah, it's my favorite course.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT