PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 10, 2013
Graeme Storm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How do you feel about this start to the championship.  
GRAEME STORM:   Yeah, pleased.   After the start I got on the front nine, I was 1‑over after five holes and not really doing anything, and all of a sudden, used a rescue club to chip‑in on the 9th and I made another four birdies after that, so a nice little run.  
   
 Q.   Something that kick started it, the attitude that transpired as a result?   
GRAEME STORM:   Yeah, it was quite good out there.   It was quite calm and just waiting for the opportunities, and they didn't seem to be coming early on but after doing that, I gave myself a few chances and rolled a few in and nice birdie to finish on the last.  
   
 Q.   You had a bit of wind to start, which probably caused that little bit of a problem, kind of flat calm again by the time you finished?  
GRAEME STORM:   Yeah, really fortunate with the draw to be honest.   The wind switched direction, as well, so we got the 12th downwind, and that made the hole a lot easier and obviously they moved the tee forward, so we got the best side of the draw.   
   
 Q.   Are you the same as just about everybody, relishing this time of year to come to this part of world?   
GRAEME STORM:   Yeah, love coming to Portugal.   Enjoy coming down here.   The weather is always great.   I never really played that well here‑‑ I think I made the cut here once, so I've never really done well around this course, so it was a nice surprise to do that today.   
   
 Q.   Why is that?   Why have you not made the cut before?  
GRAEME STORM:   I don't know.   Generally I'm under pressure to keep my card probably the past two years, so generally not played that well here.   But, you know, obviously I want to play well to try to get into the last few tournaments, but I'm not under any real pressure; if I don't do it, then I don't do it, and I look forward to next season.  
   
 Q.   Means you can be more relaxed over the shot and not tear yourself in knots?  
GRAEME STORM:   Yeah, just like I say, a lot calmer because of it.   You still get a few nerves when you're over a few shots but it's still quite tricky.   But in general just trying to enjoy the week far par.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT