ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 5, 2013
Graeme Storm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Good day's work around here?
GRAEME STORM:   Yeah, very pleased.   Always pleasing to get it under par around here.   Obviously got it going yesterday, and my finish, disappointed when I came in, because I played fantastic golf all day and I played just as good today.   Just keep bogeying that ninth hole, so got to put that right.

Q.   You got it going just after the turn in particular, three birdies in four holes. 
GRAEME STORM:   Yeah, I holed a couple of nice putts and 2‑putted the par5 but like I say, I've been playing great golf for two days, so I just need to keep doing it.

Q.   I'm sure you've got a better appreciation of this course than most, as a former champion here, one that you really do admire and enjoy? 
GRAEME STORM:   Yeah, it's a course I enjoy.   It's a fantastic golf course, the best we play in Europe all year, and it's in the best condition I've ever seen.   The greens are fantastic, and it's well set up and there's some tight flags out there today, so you've got to be really careful.

Q.   We play some terrific golf courses.   What makes this the best? 
GRAEME STORM:   I think it's obviously the drama that it can create around 15 onwards.   But there's some great holes on the front nine, too, that can catch you out.   I nearly got caught out at 7 today.   If you don't hit the fairway, it's such a difficult par 4.   It's just a great test of golf, and you can see that by the scoring.

Q.   Do you find yourself thinking back to the victory when you're playing certain holes and you're getting in certain positions? 
GRAEME STORM:   To be honest, yeah, I try to draw off it as much as I can, and I'm not the best mentally anyway, so it's actually quite a good one for me. 
But yeah, I see a lot of the shots that I played on that Sunday when I won, and I try and draw off that, and I see some of the lines off the tees and some of the lines on the greens that I can see, and just try to do the best I possibly can.

Q.   Is there any kind of superstitious element?
GRAEME STORM:   Yeah, I am quite superstitious, yeah.   But if I was too superstitious, I would be staying in this hotel, but I'm actually not, I'm straying in the Trianon, so I'm treating myself.   I enjoy coming back, it's a great venue and it's one worthy of The Ryder Cup. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT