VOLVO GOLF CHAMPIONS
January 27, 2011
Graeme Storm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   GRAEME STORM: Got off to a great start. I knocked it inside 15 feet on the first nine holes probably seven times, made a good up-and-down on 7 and turned in 2-under and continued the birdies on 10 and 11 and the wind started to pick up really quite strongly. It cooled off a bit, the temperature, so obviously very pleased I hung in towards the end.  
  
  Q. Were you on the range at lunch time thinking, this is glorious, first bit of warmth in the desert and flat calm?   
 GRAEME STORM: Yeah, warmed up and was looking forward to it. Not been playing great. I missed the cut by one last week which was really disappointing. Hung in there as much as I could but just wasn't quite good enough.   
 Nothing has much changed really apart from the way I've driven the ball in the fairways a lot more than I did last week, and that's been the difference.  
  
  Q. Was that three good days of practise or something like that as a result of missing out?   
 GRAEME STORM: Yeah, quite a lot of practise. A lot of gym work. Trying to get the body in the right shape to get the swing in the right place.   
 But I'm happy with the way things are moving. I've just got to be patient more than anything, and sometimes with me, that's quite tough.   
  
  Q. Sounds like a work-in-progress.   
 GRAEME STORM: Yeah, very much so.   
  
  Q. How was winter?   
 GRAEME STORM: Winter was not great. Obviously with the snow, I didn't go anywhere. And then I got the flu and chest infection and daughter was ill and wasn't perfect.   
 But Christmas was good, as usual. Great to see my little girl up and her presents and realise what it's about, get the wrapping paper off and get the next present and get the next present. That side of it was great, but I didn't get much practising and tried to do as much gym work as possible. But with the flu, I was out for about 2 1/2 weeks.  
  
  Q. You've mentioned the gym work in the past is something you're looking to increase more, perhaps didn't do it earlier in your career?  
 GRAEME STORM: It's a shame to be honest. I wish I really had stuck in with it, when the EGU were telling us you need to get fit; this, that and the other. Just laughed at them basically, and it really was not the in thing. But obviously people change and I wish I had done it earlier and maybe I wouldn't be having the shoulder problem I'm having now and I would be more flexible, etc.   
 I've got to keep on with the gym work. My fitness trainer says I have to keep up with it so the shoulder doesn't go the same way as it did last year. We'll see how it goes. Just continue with what I'm doing, and I'm enjoying it, actually. I shouldn't tell him that, though.   
  
  Q. At the moment, the shoulder is fine?  
 GRAEME STORM: It is. The boys in the physio unit have been fantastic. They have helped me a lot. They have seen me twice a day. They are probably sick of the sight of me, and I've only been out a week.   
 But no, they have been fantastic with me, and hopefully I can stay injury-free.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT