THE BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 8, 2010
Graeme Storm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MICHAEL GIBBONS: Thank you for joining us, Graeme. You got off to a fast start; tell us about it.  
 GRAEME STORM: On 12 made one mistake but was trying to hit fairways and give myself plenty of chances.  
 The putter, picked it up last week, by chance really and been trying to get me to use it for quite a while and picked one up and finally found one that suits me and put it in on Friday at The French Open and that's the secret obviously.  
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: What do you mean, "by chance?"   
 GRAEME STORM: Just went over to the bag and picked it up.   
  
  Q. How many other ones did you try before you came across that one?  
 GRAEME STORM: Since about Portugal, I've had about eight putters and I keep switching and trying different things, just trying to find the secret to be honest. I feel as if I'm stroking the same with every putter but just can't seem to get the pace right and I can't line up correctly.   
 It's been a bit of a frustrating period because I've been playing great from about sort of Madrid. You know, you can imagine just trying to find something that's going to give that you bit extra, so hopefully it will continue for the rest of the week.   
  
  Q. What do you do with old putters and how many --  
 GRAEME STORM: I keep most of them, but I did take a few that I did pick up. I picked up a couple from TaylorMade and I brought them back, this week, actually.   
  
  Q. How many do you have at home?   
 GRAEME STORM: I've just cleared them out, so I don't have that many now. I cleared out about four or five and I've probably got another 15 at home, something like that. My wife's happy.   
  
  Q. You talked about being -- inaudible -- compare conditions on certain parts of the course?   
 GRAEME STORM: Difficult because when we played 13, 14, 15 and you have the wind coming over the hill there, it sort of clips it, so it's difficult to pick out if it off the left, straight across or down off the left. It does move around quite a lot and obviously if you get a gust, then it obviously makes it even more difficult. So it was difficult to pick the clubs right but obviously my caddie me with that out there.   
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Graeme, thanks for joining us.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT