WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 24, 2008
Graeme Storm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  When you sit back on your flight on your way home tonight, you'll be able to reflect with a great deal of satisfaction as far as your weak went?   
 GRAEME STORM:  Yeah, for sure, definitely looking forward to my flight.  I was disappointed obviously to miss the flight last night, but yeah, satisfied.  Disappointed with the way I played on the back nine when I went back out this morning.  I was just so nervous and a bit jumpy.  I managed to get it around in 1-over for the nine holes.  Again, I shot under par for another 18 holes.  It was a great experience.   
  
  Q.  What was it like last night knowing that you've got nine holes to go in that sort of elevated company and in a pretty good position on the leaderboard?   
 GRAEME STORM:  Yeah, I was fine last night, to be honest with you.  Just when I got back out there, I don't know what happened.  I just got a bit jumpy.  12 unsettled me a little bit, and then I hit a terrible bunker shot and got it right, and everything seemed to go out the window.  I made a couple of good saves and then two missed shots at the end, otherwise I would have been really pleased.  A slight disappointment but a great week and I enjoyed the experience.   
  
  Q.  What do you take from playing the final round of a huge tournament like this with two major winners, big names in front of all of the United States of America, new territory for you?   
 GRAEME STORM:  Yeah, it just shows how far I've come in the last few years, you know, and I am working at it, trying to get it right.  I've got a lot of things going on at home.  Obviously my wife is due to give birth shortly.  Hopefully it'll continue for a long time and hopefully I'll get back into this position sooner rather than later.   
  
  Q.  Presumably you'd like to treat this as (inaudible)?   
 GRAEME STORM:  Yeah, it would be great to do that, to be honest, but I've got to say the talent that I was playing with, like Vijay going straight at the flag on 18, that just shows how good he is and how much he believes in himself.  Hopefully I can get to that sort of standard and progress even further.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT