JOHNNIE WALKER CLASSIC
February 29, 2008
Graeme Storm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   GRAEME STORM:  It was great today. I have played well for two days. Yesterday I didn't hole many putts but today holed a few more. Just one mistake, one blemish on my scorecard in two days.   
 Holed good putts at 11 and 13., The one at 13 was a good one downhill and down grain about 25 feet. I have been hitting it very close both days. I found it difficult to read the greens yesterday but after some work on it last night it is nice to get it right.   
  
  Q.  Was this a bit of a breakthrough round?   
 GRAEME STORM:  Without a doubt. I have not been playing great of late, not been playing much and not been able to practice much either with the weather at home but it is starting to click.   
  
  Q.  Was there frustration in there?   
 GRAEME STORM:  There was as I have been working hard, working with Pete Cowen and going to the gym and it hasn't been feeling right but this week thought I would freewheel it a bit and it seems to be working.   
  
  Q.  Has the win changed anything?   
 GRAEME STORM:  Winning last year has opened a few doors for me and my targets have changed a little. I have not had the best start to the year but there are plenty of tournaments to come.   
  
  Q.  How have the targets changed?   
 GRAEME STORM:  Even though I won, my world ranking didn't change that much so I want to get into the top 100 if not top 64 in the world and if I can do that by the end of the year I would have given myself a good platform for 2009.   
Does that mean mapping out a new schedule?   
 My schedule is mapped out as my wife is due in eight weeks and I am not going to be playing much before or after so I hope to take advantage of these tournaments before and after. I will be coming out a bit more after the baby to get some sleep!   
  
  Q.  What do you think of India?   
 GRAEME STORM:  I haven't seen much of it other than the hotel or the golf course. From the gold point of view, the course is nice, the greens are a bit tricky but if you get the right side of the pin you can hole some putts. I have been going to the gym and by the time I hit some balls, go to the gym it is time for some dinner.   
  
  Q.  Looking forward to the weekend?   
 GRAEME STORM:  It is a competitive leaderboard so I am looking forward to getting amongst it.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT