SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 5, 2014
Jon Curran
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JON CURRAN:   A bunch of holes played downwind.   It could be to your advantage in some situations because you have a lot less club than the normal.   I mean, holes like 18, 17 and 18, 16, 15, straight back into the wind, which is kind of nasty stuff.   There's good bit of holes that are difficult with this wind.   But, I mean, you hit fairways and middle of the green.

Q.   Good season so far.   What's behind it?
JON CURRAN:   I'm putting well, hitting a lot of good drives, hit some good quality iron shots.   Nothing crazy.   I'm not like hole-out everywhere.   I'm hitting good quality shots and staying within myself and staying patient.

Q.   What's behind that, any adjustments in the off-season?
JON CURRAN:   No, nothing, really.   Just kind of continuing from last year.   I played really well last year on the Hooters Tour, PGA Tour now.   Just kind of staying really patient and calm on the golf course is what's helped me out a bunch.

Q.   You played well last year and this year.   Was there something -- did you learn that patience or something you kind of developed?
JON CURRAN:   It's something I developed.   I had -- worked with a sports psychologist, Greg Carton from Boston.   Something we worked on was staying in the present and staying -- call it mindfulness, and it's just really important for a golfer to kind of stay in the present.

Q.   Was that holding you back your first few years?
JON CURRAN:   Maybe.   I'm not really sure.   I think I probably get a little panicked out there on situations like this.   I would be like really freaking.   But -- there's been a situation -- not that there's been a situation like that before.   I feel really calm.   I get a chance to play with Webb Simpson, which I haven't seen him or played with him in probably ten years.   Good friend of mine.   Just a really good round, lot of fun.

Q.   What's the biggest difference in 2011 Jon Curran and 2014 Jon Curran?
JON CURRAN:   Really not much.   I'm really calm on the golf course is the only thing that I can say.

Q.   What's the most interesting stuff after you won that Keegan said, celebrated --
JON CURRAN:   He's forcing me to go out and buy everybody Capitol Grille dinner, which will cost me two grand.

Q.   How many people are in that party?
JON CURRAN:   Ten people.

Q.   How are y'all associated? 
JON CURRAN:   Friends.   My girlfriend, Keegan, Jill, just a bunch of friends.

Q.   Two grand?
JON CURRAN:   I don't know.   Maybe.   Who knows.

Q.   Jon, what's your status on the PGA TOUR?
JON CURRAN:   I have no status.   I'm Web.com.

Q.   Good paycheck here would go a long way.
JON CURRAN:   Yeah.   2011 Jon would have been, "What kind of money am I going to make here?"   Now, I don't really care about much on the golf course.   I've really lost a lot of that.   I think it's really freed me up to be able to play my game and develop naturally.

Q.   From the sports psychologist?
JON CURRAN:   Yeah.   My father passed away two years ago, and it's kind of like maybe a combination of that and few other things, sports psychologist.   Kind of gained a sense of perspective.

Q.   How has your roommate helped you?
JON CURRAN:   He's helped me considerably.   He's a great influence on my game.   Good person to be around.   We've been friends for ten years.

Q.   One year of high school together?
JON CURRAN:   Yes.   Yeah, he's been a great help, great player, so it's good to see.   One of the best players in the world.

Q.   How long have you been roommates?
JON CURRAN:   Five years.

Q.   All down in Jupiter?
JON CURRAN:   One year in Orlando and the rest in Florida and Jupiter.

Q.   How do the girlfriends handle that?
JON CURRAN:   They're fine.   They love it down there.   They get to come down a lot.

Q.   Is there an Oscar and Felix in there?
JON CURRAN:   Yeah, he's definitely the messy one.

Q.   This week you went out there, is there less pressure because you're going to go back to the other Tour?
JON CURRAN:   Completely.   I got a couple starts last year and a whole lot of pressure because I didn't know if I would get a chance to play again in a Tour event.   I thought I would.   You never really knew.   This year I've played well enough on the Web so far that it looks like a good rest of the year, I could be out here again next year.   It's definitely taken a lot of pressure off.   I feel comfortable out here and feel good.

Q.   What did you do at Q-School, some of the final rounds?
JON CURRAN:   Made a 20-footer on the last hole to get into the number.

Q.   Would you have gotten into Chile?
JON CURRAN:   One of them.   I wouldn't have been comfortable.

Q.   20-footer to get your Web.com card on the number?
JON CURRAN:   Yes.   I won in Brazil.   Career putt.

Q.   Less pressure, the reshuffle thing?
JON CURRAN:   A lot of the conditional guys that didn't get in on the reshuffle, if they're getting into minimal events and really last minute, week before and still not in the event.   It's pretty crowded up there or down.

Q.   Have you guys spent time together this week, you and Keegan?
JON CURRAN:   We hung out last night, played nine holes on Tuesday.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT