PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY SEEPUERTORICO.COM
March 7, 2013
Jon Curran
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Pretty impressive.   What was going well for you?
JON CURRAN:   Well, I was putting really well.   I got a good feel for the greens, good sense for the speed of the greens, and I was just hitting some good shots, hitting a lot of greens.
Wasn't hitting too many fairways, which was kind of a little bit annoying sometimes, but hitting a lot of greens, managed to hit the greens and took advantage of the par‑5s.   Just hit a lot of greens and made some putts.

Q.   You got in on the Monday qualifier.   Were you the last one in there?
JON CURRAN:   No.   I shot 64.   I was low there.

Q.   You were low there?   Have you seen this coming?
JON CURRAN:   Yeah.   No, I've been playing really well over the winter.   I played really well.   Yeah, I played this tour, the Minor League Tour down in Florida, won a couple of times down there, which is good because I'd never won anything before.   And so that was a big confidence booster.
And then I went and took that to the Hooters NGA Tour, and I won the season shoot‑out, which pays your entry fees for the year.   That was definitely the biggest win I've ever had.   And played really well, and then I played well in the first event of the year on the NGA Tour and then came down here and been playing well ever since.

Q.   Not a lot of people know much about you.   Did you go to college in the U. S.?
JON CURRAN:   Yeah, I we want to Vanderbilt.

Q.   Went to Vandy?
JON CURRAN:   Yeah.   I went to school with Luke.   And I live down in Florida.   I'm actually really good friends with Keegan, and live down there with him.   We went to high school together.   I'm down there with all those boys, Luke and Jamie and Keegan and all those guys.

Q.   What's your home course then?
JON CURRAN:   Dye Preserve. 

Q.   Okay.   Now, four years at Vandy?
JON CURRAN:   Uh‑huh.

Q.   Never won a college golf tournament?
JON CURRAN:   I won an event.   Yeah, I won a Florida State event.   I was talking professional.

Q.   When did you turn pro?
JON CURRAN:   I turned pro right after graduating in 2009.

Q.   In 2009.   Okay.   And what's your goal going forward this year?   Are you going to try and Monday qualify some more?
JON CURRAN:   Yeah.   I'm going to do some Mondays.   Like I said, that win on the Hooters Tour pays for my expenses for the year, so that gives me a good place to be for the remainder of the year.   And yeah, I'm going to play in a lot of those, going to play some Nationwide Mondays for sure, or WEB.COM Mondays, and maybe a couple more PGA Mondays.

Q.   You don't have anything scheduled for the PGA TOUR Mondays yet?
JON CURRAN:   No.   I gotta do the prequalifier.   So it really gets in the way of the schedule, and I like to play a lot.   I prefer to play an event, four‑day event that's going to help me throughout the year and help me in the long run versus going to Monday prequalifiers, stuff like that. 

Q.   Rafa Campos played well in your group today.   Did you guys kind of feed off each other today?
JON CURRAN:   Yeah, we definitely did.   You know, I knew Russell Knox from playing the old Hooters Tour.   We played together a bunch, and when I saw that pairing, I didn't know Rafa before the round, but I knew Russell really well.   And it was really kind of comforting and put me in a good place to start the day and I kind of fed off that.   And we started playing really well and we were both kind of feeding off each other.

Q.   Where did you go to high school?
JON CURRAN:   I went to ‑‑ I grew up in Massachusetts, I went to Hopkinton High School.

Q.   How did you find your way to Vandy?
JON CURRAN:   Well, I was recruited by the guys, and I knew Luke and Brett Lang who was going there.   I fell in love with the city.   Nashville is an awesome place, so it was an easy choice for me.

Q.   Vandy guys are doing good this year.   I Brandt's off to a hot start.   And Toby wins the Pro‑Am. 
JON CURRAN:   It's good to see.   We've always had a lot of good players come through there, and they're actually playing really well as a team right now.   I haven't got a chance to meet the new coach, but they've got a new coach in there.   They've been playing really well.   I think they cracked the 125 for the first time in a long time.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT