THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 4, 2016
Jon Curran
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  First off, with the rain delay, did that have any effect?  You came in with the birdie and chip in on 17 and 18.  Did that have any effect?  
JON CURRAN: It ended up not having an effect.  That's one of the hardest holes on Tour.  That's a tough hole to come back out on, especially with it being kind of wet.  I don't hit it very long, so it's kind of a bear of a hole.   
 Q.  It seemed like a lot of your game was a lot of hit a bad shot and make a recovery shot.  Is that kind of how your round went?  
JON CURRAN: Not so much today as it was the last couple days.  I could hit more fairways and hit more greens.  I was just kind of a little off off the tee and a couple of wayward shots around the greens.  I could do a little better and make that easier on myself.   
 Q.  You currently sit two back of the leader.  How do you feel about going into the final day here?  
JON CURRAN: I feel great.  I got nothing to lose.  I like this golf course.  I've been playing great.  Yeah, just trying to go out and pretend like it's the first round of the tournament and just go as low as I can go.   
 Q.  Any particular strategy how you want to approach that?  
JON CURRAN: I play pretty conservatively.  I don't go for any par 5s.  I lay up and hit pretty controlled wedges into par 5s and kind of attack the course that way.  I don't really -- if I play with Gary tomorrow, it's two completely different games we have.  But, yeah, no, I just stick with my own game.  I've been out here long enough to know that's what produces the best results.   
 Q.  Can you walk me through that shot on 17.  
JON CURRAN: Yeah, I hit a great tee shot.  I kind of was in between clubs and didn't hit a great shot, like you said, just a little wayward coming into the green.  But I hit it over there the last three days, and I finally had a good lie.  Last couple days, I've had terrible lies.  I had a good lie, and it was into the wind.  It was a tough shot, but it wasn't as hard as it looked.   
 Q.  Your rounds are getting progressively better.  Is that familiarity?  Conditions getting better?  
JON CURRAN: We've had really good conditions the last two days.  Last three days, apart from the afternoon right now.  Yeah, I mean, a little familiarity with the golf course.  Been putting really well.  My short game saved me a few times, and hopefully keep going that direction.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT