AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 19, 2016
Jon Curran
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JON CURRAN: Five minutes to an hour, was pretty cold out there, little bit of wind.  Didn't get much rain but pretty cold.  The ball wasn't going anywhere.  Playing kind of tough.
Got through the first blip and the weather cleared up and we had ball in hand today.  It was playing getable, I thought.  Made some good putts and some good par putts and made a couple birdies, some good iron shots.  Good stuff.
Q. For the rest of the week, if it clears up, how challenging to get this thing --
JON CURRAN: Typically throughout the week the course, no matter where you are, it gets tougher.  So, you know, you see a lot of low scores in the first day and then the scores slowdown throughout the week.
So, I would imagine the same thing is going to happen here by Saturday, Sunday.  The course will be firming up and a lot dryer.  It will be all set, the scores will be a little higher.
Q. Couple guys on the leaderboard, you, Ben Crane, not exactly the longest hitters.
Wet out here and you guys actually are at a disadvantage?  Is that not the case?
JON CURRAN: It's kind of a long course but really not that bad.  Some of these courses on paper they look long but there's a lot of variety, like the one in San Antonio, it's long, 7400 yards or longer but it's got a lot of short holes and lot of like medium holes.
Lot of variety out here as well.  Only two par-5s so this kind of keeps everybody reigned in a little bit with the longer hitters.  Now, I'm not that short.
Q. I understand on 3 did they move the tee up a little?
JON CURRAN: Moved it way up which is great Because the hole is really long.  Depending on where the wind is, it might not be reachable from all the way back.
Q. Jon, you played well here last year.  Your second go around.  Would you rank this as one of the courses you feel comfortable on?
JON CURRAN: For sure.  Played great here last year.  Had a lot of good rounds.  Just feel pretty comfortable.  I feel comfortable on the greens.  I made a lot of putts.  I don't remember making a lot of putts last year.  I've never played the course without ball in hand so that changes it.
Q. All four rounds?
JON CURRAN: All four rounds last year.  Tough stretch in Texas last year with the rain.  No, I like the course.  I like the way it sets up.  You have to hit a lot of fairways.  Hit my irons well so it sets up well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT