THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 11, 2016
Jon Curran
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So coming out here for the first time, what are your thoughts?  
JON CURRAN: I think it's an awesome place.  I mean, the facilities are pretty amazing.  The course is in great shape.   
The course itself has a lot of cool characteristics.  It's not terribly long, but there are some long holes and there's a lot of short holes where there's a lot of variety.   
The greens have been soft the last couple days, but they have, I guess of this SubAir under the greens and the weather's going to be good, so they will firm up and I'm sure it will be a good test.  It's in great shape.   
 Q.  Have you picked any brains of the folks that have played here a bunch?  
JON CURRAN: I played practice rounds with Keegan and Brendan Steele and I played with -- who else?  A couple other guys that have played here a bunch.  And they all say that the greens get really fast and firm and the course usually plays really fast.  So it can change overnight and be a totally different test.   
 Q.  It's one of those courses where it doesn't necessarily favor one style, but you do you feel like your style fits?  
JON CURRAN: Yeah, I think so.  I think so.  There's a lot of wedges, a lot of shorter holes, you obviously have to hit it in the fairway and I'm pretty good at both of those.   
So, especially coming off the last two weeks where we played two courses -- or last three weeks -- where every course is over 7,300 yards and it's basically just bombing it out there and hitting it as far as you can.  But this week is not like that.   
 Q.  17's a hole you've probably grown up seeing.  
JON CURRAN: Um-hum.   
 Q.  Are there holes that kind of, when you get to the tee you're like, okay, I'm excited to play this one.  Is this one of those?  
JON CURRAN: Yeah, no, definitely when you're like walking up 16 and then you could see 17 over there to the right and you know 18's over there, right over the grand stands, it's definitely a cool place to be.   
Like the first time I got there on Monday, I think, it was like, wow, this is going to be -- this is cool.  Especially when you can see how many people can fit in that place.  It's very similar to Phoenix, I would say.   
 Q.  Is it like, that walk from 16 to 17, 16 green to 17 tee and when I, I've only been out there a couple times with friends, but when I do, I always make them get out of the cart and walk, just to get them going.  
JON CURRAN: Yeah, it's pretty cool because you see the grand stand is like as tall as this building over here and you're walking right next to it.   
 Q.  It's like from Gladiator.  
JON CURRAN: Yeah, it's really cool.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT