AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 29, 2015
Jon Curran
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Here with Jon Curran and Jon, this kind of a very unique day for the players here with the shortened No. 14 to 104 yards and plays as a par 3.  
As a player, have you ever seen a situation like on the Web.com Tour?  
JON CURRAN:   Not really.   We've had such bizarre weather out here that there was nothing you could have done about that.   Either that or not play the round.   
They made a great decision to play it as a par 3 and semi-dry area, semi-flat area.   I mean it does take away from a good hole because it was a great hole on the golf course but you have to do that.  
   
 Q.   All told, you were able to attack this golf course.   What was special for you did?  
JON CURRAN:   You know, got off to a pretty good start, hit some really close iron shots and played some good 10, 15-foot putts for birdies that I haven't been making recently.   
In a round to make three or four of them and get some momentum and make some birdies and so I think that was probably the big difference today.  
   
 Q.   As a rookie you had a chance to win in Puerto Rico.   Do you feel comfortable here on Tour?   Obviously your game is showing up.   You have the ability to play.  
JON CURRAN:   Yeah.   I think I feel comfortable.   Every week I learn something different and every week I kind of feel like I'm getting a little bit more comfortable with the player that I am and with myself and working a lot with a sports psychologist, Greg Cartin the past two, three years.   
We've worked really hard on that, try to be comfortable and try to be calm and confident when I'm out there.   There's definitely some low spots throughout the year.   
You miss a couple cuts by a shot or two, really feel like I haven't played well.   You got to stay patient and calm and confident.   That's what I'm trying to do right now.  
   
 Q.   Jon Curran, 6-under par 63 in the 2nd Round.   Rather interesting run.   Want to talk about it?  
JON CURRAN:   A great day.   We had a lot of rain overnight so they changed the 14th hole into a par 3 because the fairway was so saturated with water.   
I think they did a great job making that decision and getting us out there and giving us a chance to get in the tournament.  
   
 Q.   It's a really short yardage, 104 yards.   Did that sort of throw you guys off?  
JON CURRAN:   You know, not really.   It changes the par of the course a little bit.   Doesn't actually matter in terms of the score you're shooting but it's a good opportunity to get a wedge and make birdie.   It is a great hole on the course but, you know, it is what it is.   It's pretty wet out there.   That's what they had to do.  
   
 Q.   29 on your first 9 holes, 8 birdies on the day.   What was working?  
JON CURRAN:   Pretty down with my distances from 140, 160 yards.   I was hitting good shots.   Could have made a couple more from five or eight feet or so, but hit some close shots and I made some 10, 15-foot putts.  
   
 Q.   I believe 8 birdies and two bogies.   Must be playing very well.  
JON CURRAN:   I played nicely today.   Hit a lot of fairways, hit a lot of greens and was dialing in with my irons.   Made some good 10, 15-foot birdie putts.   With the ball in hand you got a chance to take advantage of some of the shots.  
   
 Q.   What do you think of No. 14?  
JON CURRAN:   You know, I think they did a great job making that decision.   I think it obviously is too bad because it's one of the better holes on the golf course but with the fairway being just so saturated there's nothing much they could have really done with it.   I mean it's a chance to get a wedge in your hand and hit a good approach shot in there.   
It is what it is.  
   
 Q.   Were you aware of any discussion whether it might be a par 4 or a par 3?  
JON CURRAN:   We heard about that kind of rumbling around this morning when we were under the delay.   But I mean the par doesn't really actually matter in terms of what you're actually shooting but you see on the scoreboard it's a little different.   
I mean we assumed, I think had a Hole-In-One, I assume they weren't going to keep it par 4.  
   
 Q.   At the time did you think that you had eagled the hole?  
JON CURRAN:   I had like 8 feet for eagle.   I didn't know.   I was just making putt.  
   
 Q.   You didn't know it at the time?  
JON CURRAN:   I knew it was a 105-yard hole.   I don't think anybody really knew what all was going on.   I think it was good that they got a chance -- they gave us a chance to get out there and play.  
   
 Q.   Getting yourself in this position, what's the outlook going into the weekend?  
JON CURRAN:   You know, I think the scores are going to be pretty low.   I think we're still going to have ball in hand for the next two days so I think you got to keep the pedal to the metal and keep going.   
I think somebody is going to probably go out there and get double digits this afternoon, probably, if I had to guess.   Keep doing the same things I'm doing.   I'm hitting a lot of fairways and hitting some good 9-irons and 8-irons and couple good wedges and playing well.  
   
 Q.   Jon, did you see this coming?   Were you playing well?  
JON CURRAN:   Yeah.   I putted really well the weekend at Colonial last week and just kind of -- I've been hitting some good shots all the last month or so.   
The cuts I've missed have only been like by one shot or two and just here or there I could have made a putt or two or gotten an up or down, something kind of stupid looking back on it.   It's good to get it altogether in a couple days.  
   
 Q.   Was there something you found in the last month or so?  
JON CURRAN:   Not really.   Just kind of reading the putts a little bit differently, getting a little bit more of a quicker pace to the read instead of reading it, overanalyzing it, getting too dialed into a certain line, getting too caught up with it.   
Just kind of loosened me up a little bit.  
   
 Q.   How wet were the conditions?   Was there a moment that made you say, "Wow, it's wet out here"?  
JON CURRAN:   14 fairway was definitely wet.   We couldn't have played that hole, at least this morning.   It might be drying out now.  
   
 Q.   Other than that?  
  JON CURRAN:   Other than that.   11 is kind of wet.   I mean the course -- they've done a great job.   With all that rain we had, close to four inches last night, it's pretty good, and yesterday was drying up even more.  
   
 Q.   Do you mind these conditions or is it just another day at the office for you?  
JON CURRAN:   I mean they're not bad.   It is wet.   Your shoes get wet and your -- it's kind of muddy and gross-out but -- it's whatever.   Still PGA TOUR.  
   
 Q.   Are you a Red Sox fan as Keegan is?  
JON CURRAN:   Probably not.   Kind of a freak when it comes to that.   Might be going up tonight.   It will be good.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT