BIG 12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 6, 2007
Kurt Budke
Danielle Green
Andrea Riley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:  Oklahoma State has joined us.  Coach, comments about tonight's game. 
 COACH BUDKE:  Obviously we're very disappointed.  We've been playing much better basketball than that.  But I want to, first of all, congratulate Bonnie and her team. 
 I think they did an excellent job tonight.  They came in knowing that they, you know, that they have to win this tournament to move on.  And they played with a little more desperation than we did tonight. 
 And they did a great job.  I give them all the credit in the world.  We're not going to win very many games when you shoot 19% in the second half.  And we haven't done that -- we haven't done that since we started this whole thing at Texas Tech a long time ago. 
 But these kids always give their all and we just came up a little short in these conference tournaments things like this happen.  And it happened to us tonight. 

 Q.  You said all along you had done enough to get into the NCAA tournament no matter.  We're going to find out.  State your case on why you're confident you're still going to get in. 
 COACH BUDKE:  First, you look at the RPI at the league at 2, you look at the strength 1 through 12 in this conference.  6 of our 9 losses before tonight were to the top 15 teams.  Three of the losses came at the buzzer. 
 So this is a team that it was very close to not even being 8 and 8.  We could have been 11-5 very easily.  I just think our league actually deserves seven.  We're sitting here talking about six.  I don't know how you could keep Texas out of here. 
 I think Texas is a very good team also that deserves to be in the tournament.  So you know it was one bad night.  It was one bad night.  Hopefully they look at your body of work and where you've come as an inexperienced team at the beginning of the year to where you're at right now. 
 And I'm still confident that we're in, because of the strength of our league and you saw that with Kansas tonight.  Very good team. 

 Q.  Coach, do you think this is going to take your team to the next level that they'll use this like a situation like A&M was a few years ago, and it will help them be better?  Because this is her first year in going to the next level, coach? 
 COACH BUDKE:  It's both their first years in playing in this type of setting.  You know, we ran into this again when we started this whole thing at Texas Tech.  This is the first time in the Big 12 tournament.  It's tough on these kids. 
 It's tough playing an 8:30 game.  I'd rather play the noon game than waiting around all day long, watching the scores come across.  Seeing games on TV. 
 And it's an adjustment for my team.  And no doubt we'll learn from this.  And I don't think it will happen again. 

 Q.  We'll have both Andrea and Kurt address this.  But you've been shooting the ball well behind the arc recently, but tonight looked like you settled for working the ball, go one of 16 in the second half.  Were you trying to work the inside a little more especially when it wasn't going in early in the second half? 
 COACH BUDKE:  We just didn't have very much continuity tonight.  I didn't think we flowed any time tonight.  You have to credit KU with that.  They did a great job defensively.  Shots that we normally hit, there was a time it was like 42-41 that we missed three or four free throws in a row and they threw three or four out of bounds, that that's where I thought the separation could have came right in that area right there. 
 And we didn't take advantage of it.  I knew when we didn't take advantage of it it was going to be a tough night for us. 

 Q.  Andrea, like you said, you played so well the last seven, eight, nine games.  You learned from some of your mistakes, but then in the second half looked like some of the stuff you went through in January.  Talk about the second half compared to the first half and some of your recent games why it didn't click as well for you. 
 ANDREA RILEY:  Well, the first half we started off a little bad, and then we, like, we started coming together.  But then like the second half we started trying to do individual things.  That's not what we're about. 
 We should play as a team.  And I mean it just seemed like we all wasn't on the same page tonight. 
 COACH BUDKE:  I think you saw a nervous team tonight.  A nervous team tonight. 

 Q.  Andrea and Danielle, either one of you, what do you all take away from this and work on as you await finding out if you're in the NCAA tournament or possibly an NIT bid? 
 DANIELLE GREEN: I think we'll work on tossing the ball in the zone, getting into our stuff early and just hitting shots and playing D, really.  That's about it. 

 Q.  Danielle, Andrea, he said you got nervous sitting around watching scores come in, and now you have to wait five, six days to watch scores around the country come through.  What are your emotions going to be before you hear your fate, how will you try to handle that? 
 DANIELLE GREEN:  It's going to be hard.  You just want to get out there and play.  That's when I know the team is going to be ready.  We do make it, we're going to be ready this time. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you very much. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT