BIG 12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 8, 2011
Kurt Budke
Vicky McIntyre
Toni Young
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 PETER IRWIN: Coach, your thoughts about tonight's game. 
 COACH BUDKE: I want to congratulate Kristy and her team. I thought they played like an NCAA Tournament team tonight. I thought they played like a team that beat the number one team in the nation tonight. I think they're going to have a chance to have a good run in the NCAA Tournament. 
 I thought tonight they got very physical with us and I didn't think we responded very well. This reminded me a lot of about four years ago in Andrea's freshman year we lost in our first round and then we won the next three years. It kind of reminded me about that. People asked me last night how do I think our team will play. 
 We've been playing well, got a great win over Texas in our last game. But this is another level that we have not -- a lot of our kids have not experienced yet. It is a more physical time of year. You're allowed to play more physical, and I just didn't think we handled it very well. But we'll learn from it. We feel like we should be invited to the NIT and we'll go home excited about playing the next season which hopefully will be the NIT.
 PETER IRWIN: We'll take questions for our student-athletes. 

 Q. Vicky, can you and Toni both talk about the physical play. You got a lot of close shots but never any easy shots?
 TONI YOUNG: Posting up or whatever they were really physical, a little bit bigger than us. Like you said, we got to play a lot more physical. Instead of powering through the contact, we kind of faded off from it instead of going and finishing our shot. 
 VICKY MCINTYRE: We let their physicality of their play get to us and we didn't play our game. 

 Q. Toni, you guys did not shoot -- either team did not shoot well in the second half. Then they go in a 19-0 run in eight minutes in the second half. Was that due to them being physical or you guys just weren't doing anything, meshing at all offensively? What happened in that run?
 TONI YOUNG: We may have set back a little bit. The physicality did kind of get to us because we were trying to feed the ball inside. And our posts, we weren't hitting the shots we needed to.
 PETER IRWIN: Thank you, ladies. Questions for Coach. 

 Q. Talk about that run, if you would. Did that have to do with them being physical or just late on the basket or combination?
 COACH BUDKE: A little combination. And I think your confidence level drops at both ends. Now, if you have a veteran team you understand that, okay, if we're not scoring, we have to play better defense. We have to rebound better.
 And they understand that part of the game, I think, a lot better than what we do right now. We let it bother us at both ends. We actually got beat on a couple run-outs tonight. That hasn't happened to us all year long. I think it's really feeling bad about the shot I just missed.
 And these kids care, and they're great kids. And I love them to death. And when they don't play like they are capable of, they feel like they're letting down the team, the school, their family, and they carry that burden at both ends. 
 And they'll learn. They'll learn. It's gotta get a little tougher at the other end when you're struggling at one. But we didn't do it tonight.

 Q. Kristy said that they hadn't double-teamed you in the post the first two games but they did it tonight. Was that a bother? And were they not ready for it, or just good defensive strategy or what?
 COACH BUDKE: Actually, we've had that quite a little bit lately. So we actually were ready for it. And the counters that we had that we've been using, so there really wasn't anything new that we had to do tonight. Just didn't work. 
 And I think if you go back and look at the tape now, you know, when we scored 22 the first half, we had some really nice opportunities without the double-team there that I felt we should have been in the 30 to 35 range in the first half. And that just kind of carried over. 
 Again, it really reminded me of four years ago.

 Q. I know you'd rather win, but in a losing effort, Vicky McIntyre has 21 points, nine rebounds, five blocks. As you move forward from here, seems like a pretty good building block?
 COACH BUDKE: We really feel with Tiffany, Toni, Vicky, those three are very good ones to draw to right there. And Toni didn't have a great night tonight.
 She'll be the first one to tell you that. It's hard for us to win with Toni struggling like she did tonight. But Vicky, Vicky's a force in this league and Vicky as a freshman does demand a double-team. 
 And so I think that's exciting for the future and as we continue to get better players around her we're excited about the kids coming in next year. 
 And it won't be quite so easy to double-team her.
 PETER IRWIN: Thank you, Coach. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT