ROLAND GARROS
June 3, 2019
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. KHACHANOV/J. Del Potro
7-5, 6-3, 3-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Spanish.
Q. How are you feeling after this defeat?  Did you think that you could come back up?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, first of all, I think I started very well.  I was playing better than him, but I couldn't use the opportunities I had.  I had several breakpoints, but I only -- I didn't win any, and he, with one breakpoint, he won the first set.  The second set was very fast.  I couldn't fight back.
And then the match started taking the pace I wanted to give.  I felt more at ease.  And in the fourth set, I had more breakpoints.  Two forehands just outside, and I really played to the limit of my capabilities.  That's why I made errors.
And from that point onwards, I tried to come back up and I was unable, but I think I fought very hard until the end.  I didn't give up neither for physical nor mental reasons.  I was present, and that's what's important.
Q. So you served and it's true that your serve was not present?  The ball was difficult?  Was heavy?  This time the weather, was that negative for you?  Did it prevent you from hitting harder?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yes.  Well, it's true that the first set, the weather conditions were faster, and I took advantage of that.  So I had started better.
But then it's true that Karen has very good physical shape, and he's able to load the ball, give a lot of power to it.
In the third and fourth set, on these errors that I made because of taking too many risks, he took advantage to be more solid in his game, to take the advantage.  And in these conditions, very few players can hit the ball so hard.  Karen is one of these players, and he made me run a lot.
Q. How did you feel physically after a week of matches?  How do you feel in the future physically?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I'm feeling well, beyond this defeat, which is pretty harsh.  As of tomorrow, we will be talking about my future tournaments, Queen's, Wimbledon.  And I think that we won't think about rehabilitation or recovery after this week.
It's true that it's been a very intense tournament.  And I had the possibility and I was in the condition to have a quite balanced match with Karen, but that's it.
I think that I had a beautiful tournament, owing my physical condition and the conditions of today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT