CHINA OPEN
October 2, 2018
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. DEL POTRO/A. Ramos-Vinolas   
7-5, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Talk about the match, how you felt on the court.  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, it was a difficult start of the tournament for me.  I think I did well.  I serve well, which is important for my whole game.  But I didn't feel with that strength during the game.   
I think it's normal to win my first round after a big success that I played in New York, coming again to play another tournament.  I think it's important to win a match like that.  But I need to feel better, to improve my game for tomorrow, and be 100% to keep going.   
 Q.  The trainer was out a couple times.  What was wrong?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Because I twisted my knee in the second point of the match.  It was nothing dangerous.  But he wants just to check what's going on.  That was like a control.  Nothing else.   
 Q.  You have enough experience to deal with the Race to London, the Masters.  How much is it still in your brain you still have to qualify?  Are you checking the points?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I think it's a good battle between us to qualify for London.  It's something extra, another extra pressure for us.  But it's a nice pressure, I think.  We enjoy that pressure because we are fighting for the same goal.  There's still five spots free.  We are more than six players fighting for that five spots.  It's interesting to watch, as well.   
Hopefully I can reach London after many years.  It will be great for me.  But I know I have to still win couple of matches to be there.   
 Q.  In the first set I noticed shots were maybe a little long.  How did it feel when he broke your serve, made it 5-5?  You seemed to respond pretty well after that.  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I played horrible game in the 5-4, serving for the set.  I made a lot of mistakes with my forehand.  But after that horrible game, I played better.   
I say to myself that the first set could be the key of the match.  So I tried to play my best tennis, especially in the 5-All, then to close the set with my serve.   
I think it was a right effort because after that I played much better the second one, and I took all my chances during the game.  I did well right specific in the important moments of the match.   
 Q.  You play Khachanov next.  You had a battle with him in Australia this year.  What do you remember of that match?  He's someone who said before that he idolizes you.  What is it like for you when you're at the age where people idolize you and are playing you?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: That match in Australia was an unbelievable battle.  We played under tricky conditions, too hot.  Tomorrow will be different.  I mean, will be different conditions.  But Karen is playing much better than Australian tournament.  He's a nice guy.  We have a great relation on tour.   
I would also like to play against a friend or a player that admire me.  It could be strange, but in the end we have to play a tennis match, and only one going to win.  Hopefully I could be the winner.   
 Q.  You skipped the Laver Cup and chose to battle in Beijing.  Why did you make that choice?  There was a saying that Laver Cup has affected some game during these days.  What is your opinion?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, the main thing to me is to be healthy all the time.  My health is the priority every time that I had to make a difficult decision.  I got really tired after the US Open final.  I went home and spent time with family, with friends.  I couldn't be ready to play an important event as the Laver Cup is.  So we decide to stop for couple of days and be ready for these tournaments, which is important.  Looking forward to close the year in a good level.   
I like to play in Asia, so I came couple of days before the tournament to get adapted to the conditions, to the change hours.  I think I will be even better in the next days.   
 Q.  What does it feel like being the other side of 30 years old?  How did you celebrate?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Thank you for saying that (smiling).  Do I look older?  No?  I think I'm mature now (smiling).   
No, I think is the same.  I had a nice party at home with friends, family.  We had many things to celebrate, not just my birthday.  I think I could be playing for more years.  I don't know how many.  But I'm feeling good with 30, so we'll see in the future.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT