CHINA OPEN
September 30, 2018
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Last year's China Open you played doubles and singles.  What are you and your partner looking forward to this year?  What have you been focusing on differently?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I like to play doubles sometimes.  I have this friend of mine, and we spoke a couple of weeks ago to play together in this tournament.  It will be a fun match, playing Sascha and Rublev, I believe is the partner.  Also could be a good preparation for singles.  I'm exciting to play the doubles match.   
 Q.  What has been your preparation been like?  How much time of rest have you allowed yourself?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Of course, I got exhausted after big effort in New York.  But I went at home, spending the time with family and friends.  I trained hard to be ready for this tournament.  I know how difficult is this tournament, Shanghai Masters and the rest.   
Also we are fighting for the last five spots in London, so it could be an interesting battle between us.  But I'm excited just to be there and see what's happening.   
 Q.  Obviously you've been improving your ranking and performance dramatically since coming back from the injury.  How do you assess your season so far?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, it could be one of my best seasons of my career.  I won the first Masters 1000 in Indian Wells for the first time, then I got my highest ranking ever this season.  I play another Grand Slam final after nine years.  I'm still having chances to finish the year in the highest ranking ever.   
It's amazing year to me.  I also want to keep going because I like to surprise myself.  I'm exciting for that.   
 Q.  Coming in as the No. 1 seed, does that change your game mentally, how you approach the tournament?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: No, not at all.  I just came like every player.  I don't feel any extra pressures to be the top seed of the tournament.  I know how difficult is this tournament to win because the draw has big players, and only one could be the champion next Sunday.   
I will try to play my best tennis, see how far can I do, then we will see what's happens.   
 Q.  This is your second time coming to the China Open.  How is your physical condition now?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I'm feeling good.  It's a little bit tough with the jetlag, but I'm feeling good.  I having good practice already.  I will play on Tuesday.  I think I will be ready for the first match.   
I'm in good shape.  My conditions are good at the moment.  I'm exciting to get into the court and play the first match.   
 Q.  Could you share some experience and advice in terms of how to maintain your desire and love for the game, even facing the challenges of a long rehabilitation coming from injury?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I think first of all you have to love what you do, then you have to find very, very deep of your body the strength to deal with the pain, to deal with injuries.  I think I had lucky because I found a good doctor who fixed my wrist after three surgeries.   
I also was really depressed during couple of months.  I was at home with my family, with my friends, many other peoples who wants to keep watching me playing tennis.  That was very important support for myself.  I think because of them, I never give up during that time.   
Now I'm here living could be the best moments ever on my career.  They are so happy to watch me playing tennis again.  I'm dealing with all my wrist problems, but in the end I'm playing tennis again, and that's what I love.   
My advice to the young players or the player who has injuries, try to keep trying.  Every day is a new opportunity to try.  You have to pray, you have to meet fate with goals every day.  In the end of the way, you will find the solution.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT