U.S. OPEN
September 7, 2018
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. DEL POTRO/R. Nadal
7-6, 6-2 (ret.)
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. At what point did you realize that he was injured?  How weird is it to play against that at this stage of the tournament?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I saw him suffering a lot during the second set.  I was trying just to do my game.  But, of course, I saw Rafa with some pains.  I say to myself that just stay focus on my game, don't look at him because you never know what could happen in that situations.
But, of course, when I saw him with bad movements, I start to play aggressive, putting him running a lot.  Then he decide to stop.
Q. Nine years after the first time being in the final, being through what you've been through, how different are you as a player and man now?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I think I'm older, of course.  I cannot believe that I will have a chance to play another Grand Slam finals in here, which is my favorite tournament.  So it would be special to me.  Would be a big challenge, as well, because I've been fighting with many, many problems to get in this moment.
I'm here now.  It will be a difficult match, of course.  But anyway, I think I've been doing a good tournament.  And in the finals, anything can happen.  If I win, great.  If not, I been playing a great tournament and I will be happy anyways.
Q. What was the most difficult period for you in the past few years?  How did you bring yourself out of it and go on?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: The worst moment was in 2015 when I was close to quit this sport because I couldn't find a way to fix my wrist problems.  I been suffering a lot.  I got depressed for couple of months also.  I didn't get the chance to feel better with myself, to do this again.  That was the bad moment for me.
But I think that is completely in the past, and now I'm having a good present, looking forward for the future.  I didn't expect to get this kind of emotions playing tennis again.  Reaching finals, winning titles, having my highest ranking ever in this moment, everything is almost perfect (smiling).
Q. What parts of your game are different now than when you won in 2009?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I don't know.  I think I mix it up a lot my backhands with the slices, dropshots.  My wrist problems.  But it's working good, which is a good signal to my renew the game.
I need to be in my best shape on Sunday if I want to win the final.
Q. The match isn't over yet, but if you face Novak, what challenges does that present, what is it like playing him?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, it will be a difficult match because we are close friends.  For sure we both wants to win.  But Novak has won the Wimbledon already.  He's playing so good.  He will be the favorite to win on Sunday.
But I don't know.  When I played Roger nine years ago, he was the favorite to win, as well.  I will try to make the surprise again.
Q. You said in 2015 you thought about quitting.  What made you decide not to quit?  What did you imagine would be in your future in tennis?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, you see the friends who cames to watch me?  They are very important for me to be in this stage at the moment because they were behind me in that years, trying to keep my mind in positive way, for never give up during my wrist problems.  I didn't know if I will be a tennis player again or not.
But I'm here.  I'm exciting to keep surprising the tennis world, as I did with myself.  Never knows what could happen in the future.  So I'm happy just to be a tennis player again after all my wrist problems.
Q. Can you explain why the US Open is your favorite tournament and what makes you play so well here.
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, of course because I won my only Grand Slam here.  When I was a kid, I mix watching soccer and the US Open, that's it.  That's what I say that this could be my favorite tournament.
Then I came here, playing every year.  I played well.  I got too much energy from the crowd.  I have a lot of fans who came specifically to this tournament.  That's why it is my favorite one on tour.
Q. What did you do after all the surgeries to keep on going, to not give up?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, of course, I trust on my doctor after every surgery, but then I couldn't make it.  We decide to do another one, then another one.  But before the last one, I said that could be the last effort to myself because I am not available to keep going to the surgery room again, put my body in risk because you never know what could happen in that surgeries.
But I got lucky because it did well, and now it's working well.  My wrist, it's okay.  I know I'm not 100%, but I can play tennis in this conditions.  I will be proud if I still playing tennis for more years.
Q. John Isner says most of the work when he's not in tournaments is keeping his body up to play five-set matches.  Is that the case for you?  How many hours a day or week do you spend making sure you can play?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I spend a lot of hours doing treatments on my wrist, on all my body.  I like to do Yoga every day.  I think it's important to feel in these conditions.
When you play tournaments like this, when you have a day off during matches, it's very important to put your body in rest and do the treatments in the good way.  That's what I try to do tomorrow, with the ice bath, then massage, then came for hit the ball a little bit also.
Also you need a big team behind you to support these kind of treatments.  We are doing well.
Q. How much harder is it now than it was nine years ago?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Everything is harder because I'm older, yeah.
Q. During the tiebreak I think your box did again an Ole and DelPo chant.  The crowd was very fair at the beginning, they wanted you, but were supportive of Rafa as well.  The whole stadium was doing that chant, and what does that mean to you?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Of course, everybody loves Rafa, too.  When we played matches like this, it's amazing to show that atmosphere.  It doesn't matter who is the favorite for the people or not.
But as you said, in that tiebreak I felt the energy from almost all the crowd were behind me because, I mean, Rafa was the favorite to win the match, and maybe they wanted to keep watching tennis for a few more hours.  That could be the reason, yeah.
Q. Did you take energy from it?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah, a lot, of course.
Q. When you were home in 2015, I know you watched the Simpson's and Breaking Bad, but did you watch the US Open?  Can you quantify what a victory here would be like as compared with winning the Davis Cup for Argentina?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: No, I cannot compare between this tournaments with Davis Cup.  Everything that I got, it's special.  I mean, I had the silver medal from Rio.  Also was one of my best week ever on tour, playing for my country in Rio.  Davis Cup, it's also special for me and for my country.
But here, it's like I cannot describe the difference.  As everybody knows, this is my favorite tournament since I'm kid.  I'm happy for that.
Q. Did you watch the '15 final at all?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I don't remember, no.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT