U.S. OPEN
September 4, 2018
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. DEL POTRO/J. Isner
6-7, 6-3, 7-6, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. John said you were playing your best tennis ever.  What would you say to that?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I think I played very solid this game.  In particular I made good returns every service games.  I had a lot of chances to break.  I did couple of times during the game.  I think I play on a smart game today.  I saw John a little bit tired also.  That's give me a little bit more energy to keep trying.
I played a good match.  I don't know if I'm playing my best tennis ever, but I'm feeling good.  I reach another semifinals in this Grand Slam, which means something big to me.  I'm very happy for that.
Q. You obviously spent a lot of time hydrating, preparing yourself for these hot conditions.  Are you worried your friends are doing the same thing?  They are expending a lot of energy.  Are they drinking enough water?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: It's tricky conditions for the players, for the fans, for my friends who drinks beers (smiling).  They have a dangerous conditions.  But they having fun.  I think they are respectful watching this event.  They create a good atmosphere for the fans, too.
I think it's not easy to play under this weather, but it's the same thing for all players.  You have to deal with the preparation and the heat.  But I did little bit better than John, and now I have enough time to recover myself.
Q. Talk about your possible semifinal opponents.  If you will play Rafa, can you reflect on the match in Wimbledon.  And then Thiem.
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: If I play Rafa, it could be another big battle as the Wimbledon match was.  Of course, I like to play always with the No. 1 of the world, doesn't matter the tournament or the conditions or the weather.  I just have the chance to play the greatest on this sport, and it's amazing for me.
If I play Dominic, it could be a different match, but also difficult one.  He's playing good.  If he beats Rafa, that will be confidence for him on his game, and it will be a big problem for me.
Q. Hard to believe so many years since you won.  To be able to be back in the semifinals here, how much do you relish where you're at right now?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I'm very happy for my level, for what all has been through to get in this position now.  I think it doesn't matter the final result in the tournament.  I just enjoying playing tennis again.  I'm enjoying a lot the crowds like this.  I like to play big battles with other guys.  That's makes me feels alive again.
After all my problems, I think it's time to celebrate these kind of things.  I love this sport.  I love the competition.  I'm very proud to be here again.
Q. The match you played last year versus Thiem was unbelievable.  Was it for you, too?  Can you remember how it went?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah, it was one of my epics match in my career.  I was two set down, playing bad tennis.  Then I come back and I did a big effort to survive in the fourth.  Then in the fifth, I got too much energy from the crowd, and they makes me played an unbelievable tennis in the end.
It could be a new epic match if I play him on Friday.  But if I play Rafa, I would like to do same thing that I did in Wimbledon.  I was close to beat him.  But he's the No. 1 in the end.  I will try to enjoy the semifinal, as well.
Q. What do you remember most about holding the championship trophy here?  What did you do with the trophy after?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I couldn't hold the trophy in that moment.  I was so, so nervous, happy.  I couldn't talk to the fans in that moment, like, nine years ago.  But I have my trophy at home.  I like to see that trophy every single day in my home.
I don't know if I can get a new one, but I'm doing all my best to try to get again.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT