U.S. OPEN
September 2, 2018
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. DEL POTRO/B. Coric   
6-4, 6-3, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Earlier today John Isner said your backhand is something to be feared, your slice.  What do you feel you can do with it?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, when I'm still any kind of pain on my wrist, I'm be available to choose between slices or two-handed backhands, which is a good combination for my new style of game.  In this tournament particularly, I'm playing free of pain, which is pretty good for me.   
As I did today, I mix it up a lot of backhands, slices and dropshots.  I think it's the good part of my game when I feel 100% with my wrist.   
 Q.  Why do you think this tournament works so well for you and fits your game so well?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I love to play with this energy from the crowd, from the people.  They make me feel special to play my best tennis every year.  I reach another quarterfinals in my favorite tournament, which is something special to me.   
Hopefully keep playing in the same level to go far.  But it will be a good challenge for both in the next round with John.  I don't know what could happen in that match.   
 Q.  Who were the guys up in the suites?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: My friends from Tandil.   
 Q.  How long have you known them?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: More than 20 years.   
 Q.  Do they practice the cheers?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah, they don't have nothing to do (smiling).  They just practice the songs.   
 Q.  Where is your confidence level at the moment?  As high as it can be?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I'm feeling okay.  I think my confidence is in a high level.  I know I could play even best tennis.  So I am looking forward for that in the next round.   
 Q.  This round last year you had a very interesting match.  This year you haven't dropped a set yet.  How important is it for you to get on a roll early in the tournament?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I think to win in straight sets every match is important for the body, for the legs, for the physical conditions.  But in the end every match is a new battle, and you must be 100% for that moment.  It doesn't matter if I win in three sets or five sets, in the next round will be a new match.  John has a very good shape to play that match.  It will be a really tough one.   
 Q.  What were you happiest with tonight?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I think I played a solid tennis from the beginning till the end.  I hold all my service games, the most important for my game.  I feel good with my forehands, too.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT