U.S. OPEN
August 29, 2018
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. DEL POTRO/D. Kudla
6-3, 6-1, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Difficult conditions.  Must have been nice to get it done in three sets.  Talk about the match, how you feel you played?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yes, it was a good conditions for play.  But we all have the same situation before the matches.  I was doing a good preparation mentally to try to deal with this kind of forecast.  And I did well.
It's important to win in three sets, to keep my body in good shape.  Now I've been doing recovery so I will be fine after tomorrow.
Q. Fernando beat Andy, he's your next opponent.  Talk about that matchup.
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, Fernando, it's a really good player.  I don't like to play against lefty because they can mix it up all the time.  They play different angles of the game.  They make variations all the time.  It's not going to be easy for me.
I will try to play even better than today.  I also have a lot of fans who give me good energy to always try to keep winning.  I will try to take that advantage to myself.
Q. Growing up in Argentina, what opportunities did you have to watch on television when Venus and Serena Williams would play against each other?  What do you remember?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: They play each other again?
Q. If Serena wins tonight.
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I think everybody loves to watch them playing each other.  They create a special atmosphere every time.  When I was kid, I loved to watch both of them playing for finals of Grand Slams.  I think the crowd will be crazy if they play again.
Q. What do you remember most?  What made you love that so much?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Wow, I can't remember details of that.  But I know they play each other many Grand Slam finals, here, Wimbledon as well.  The good thing is nobody knows who's going to win.  Now they are both trying to play his best again, and could be interesting match to watch.
Q. While you were training and rehabbing, coming back to the game, how much were you thinking about that win that you had in '09 at the US Open to push you through all of that adversity?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I've been through a lot of bad moments few years ago.  But I think I change my mind also when I started to play tennis again three years ago.  I say, like, it could be a new career for me.  This is my conditions for playing tennis.  I know how is my wrist every day, but I try to deal with all the pains that I have.
I'm having my highest ranking ever with this kind of game, which I think is good.  But I'm happy because all my biggest problems are completely in the past, and now I'm looking forward for a good present and the future.
Q. How does it make you feel when you hear other players say you have inspired them by the way you've come back from your physical problems?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, of course, it's nice to hear some words like that be coming from Djokovic or Murray, as well.  They are legends of this sport.  They know how did to come back and play tennis.  Everybody knows my effort to keep playing.
And they are doing the same way.  Djokovic already won a Grand Slam.  Andy is playing better and better.  He will be in the top soon.  I think he deserves to be in the top, for sure.
I like to see them playing tennis again because they had to be here and fighting for the Grand Slams.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT