U.S. OPEN
August 24, 2018
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Just hoping you might talk a little bit about how you're feeling coming in.  Obviously this is a strong start to the year for you.  Indian Wells you get your first Masters, feeling healthy.  Talk a little bit about how you're doing coming into New York.  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I'm feeling good.  I'm in good shape.  As everybody knows, this is my favorite tournament on tour, which I have big expectations playing in New York.  I'm very exciting to start of the tournament, and on Monday will be against a qualifier player, but I will try to enjoy as always I did in this tournament and then see if I can go far.   
 Q.  What are your memories of that comeback from two sets down last year against Thiem?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, it was a great battle.  I had a few good memories playing this tournament.  One is that match.  Then when I obviously won the title in 2009.  But every year is different.   
I have friends coming to watch me here, so will be a little bit special this tournament for me, and what I said, I will try to enjoy the atmosphere that the people create in New York and then play my best tennis.   
 Q.  What do you think of the young guys, Shapovalov and Tsitsipas, and maybe their chances to make a run in New York?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: They are so good, and they are the present, but they have a big future, as well.  They have big potential to keep going up in the rankings and they are doing great season already.  So I think we are spending tournaments with the future, and they are trying to take it away for the top positions in the ranking.  But I think it will happen very soon.   
 Q.  You had some tough times with your injuries, with your wrist and all that.  And now you're at your career-high ranking, playing some of your best tennis.  What's the journey been like for you?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, the most important thing that all my injuries and problems is completely in the past.  Now I'm feeling good.  Sometimes I have to deal with any pain on my wrist, which is normal after all my surgeries.   
But I think it's amazing for me just thinking about tennis, don't talk anymore about the injuries, which is the most important thing to myself and come to this tournament thinking about my highest ranking or my big expectations playing the tournament.  It's the best things I could feel before a tournament.   
 Q.  Could you tell me a little bit about or elaborate on your preparation for this tournament, any element of your game you have been focusing on especially?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, as everybody knows that we have a lot of things to do before the tournament.  We will try to manage that kind of event to stay relaxed, to keep trying hard, to get our best the first day of the match, and I think we will try to be smart in these days, because we are too busy.   
But our focus is on tennis, and after this, we will train hard, as always I do before a tournament like this, and I think I will be ready for the tournament.   
 Q.  When you're not able to play matches but you get a lot of practice in but you still can't play the tournaments, is there something that you miss?  You can't be sharp enough when you can't play matches or you actually need to be in tournaments to get your level of play up?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I think it's good to have enough time to practice and playing sets with the other players.  It's our best option to get in good shape for the first match.  And we still having two, three days to start the tournament.  I'm feeling good, so I think I'm doing the right preparation for this tournament.   
 Q.  Earlier this year Novak has been going through his own challenges.  Looked like he was a little bit lost, and now, Wimbledon, coming in here, he's turned things around.  Are you surprised to see what Novak's been able to do?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: No, no, because I believe on him.  I know he has everything to win in the first position of the world again.   
But I also know what he has been through to get in this position again.  He had frustration for the injury, or at the beginning of the year he comes to the tournament and he leaves early in every tournament, and that is not -- it's not normal for a player like him, because I been through in that situation, too.   
But now I'm happy to see him in the first positions, winning Grand Slam, winning big titles.  I'm so proud what he's doing again, and hopefully he can still making history in this sport, because I love him and I'm so happy for his team, as well.  It's amazing.  I think it's good for the tennis world.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT