ROGERS CUP
August 7, 2018
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You had a great week last week in Los Cabos.  How did you feel about your tennis overall, and what did you feel like was the difference against Fabio in that final?  It seemed like he played a really good level.
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I think I did well.  I reached another final in the season, which is good for my year.  Fabio played much better than me.  He deserves to win.
But now is a different tournament, different expectations.  I'm looking forward to keep playing in the same level and see if I can still doing good results.
Q. What do you feel is the biggest improvement in your game, either mental or physical, since you have come back from injury?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I think mentally was my biggest improvement during these last years.  I've been working hard in my mind dealing with some pains with my wrist, different injuries that I had in the past.  And that makes me strong enough to survive and to keep trying every day.
But then my tennis improves a little bit more.  My physical shape is good.  And I think I'm in the good moment to go for the goals that I want to reach.
Q. You missed such a lengthy time on tour with your injury issues.  Many athletes might have decided to walk away from the sport.  Did you ever have moments where you were close to considering that, and how satisfying is it now to see your ranking back in the top 5?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yes, yes, I consider it, like, three years ago to quit tennis, to stop to play, because I had been suffering a lot of -- I was depressed for a couple of months because I couldn't find a way to fix the wrist problems.
But now you can imagine how happy I am playing tennis again and being in the top 5 position again after long time, winning titles, playing my best tennis ever maybe.  I'm having one of my best season this year, and it's amazing.
I never expect to be in this moment again after all my problems.  So I just want to keep enjoying this second chance of the tennis life.
Q. Denis Shapovalov has mentioned that you're an idol of his.  Do you guys have any sort of relationship or has he reached out to you for advice or guidance?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, Denis is a great guy.  He's improving every tournament.  And I think he has a big potential to be in the top positions very soon.  He also is a lefty player, which could be an advantage for him.  And I like the way of his playing.
So, of course, I wish all the best to him, and it will be nice to see the young players coming up to the first positions.  And also we have a good relation, so it's good.
Q. Over the course of the year, you spend so many time with your fellow players.  How do you balance sort of having friendships with your fellow players as well as also competing against them?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yes, yeah, of course.  We try to separate when we are on court than we are walking on the streets or having dinners together.
We are fighting for the same goal, but, in the end, we are a normal person doing the same job.  But we know the rules when we are here in the stadium or on court, but then we have good relations if all together.
And we like to spend time together because we travel a lot and we miss our family, our friends.  And it's a good way to keep close with the people that we have, like, same culture or we speak the same language or we do the same every day.
Q. Nine years ago, you reached the final at the Rogers Cup in Montreal.  What were your memories of that tournament, and how do you compare your level back then that year you won the US Open to your level now?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: It was one of my best tournaments I've been playing in my career.  I remember that I beat Andy Roddick and Rafael Nadal, and then I lost against Murray in the finals, which is a tough draw.
But now the situation is completely different.  I'm playing good.  I'm in the No. 4 in the world.  And I have chance to keep improving my ranking this week, but, if not, I will be happy anyways.
But I try to stay calm and just play my game.
Q. The other Argentinian player at the Rogers Cup is Diego Schwartzman.  I know you were at the match last night.  Can you tell us a little bit more about your friendship with him and also about Diego's ability, considering how short he is, and how his ranking is now, I believe, No. 12 in the world?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah, the little guy (laughing.)
But he's so nice.  We are good friends.  We are going to have dinner tonight together.  And I love to see him in the top positions playing the way that he's playing now, beating good guys on tour.
And it's amazing to see a friend playing like that, you know.  And, of course, I wish all the best to him.  Hopefully, we can keep playing together many, many years.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT