THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 11, 2018
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








R. NADAL/J. Del Potro
7-5, 6-7, 4-6, 6-4, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Are you able to describe your emotions?  Describe how high quality of a match you felt it was.
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, at the moment I'm feeling sad after almost five hours of run and playing this high level against the No. 1 in the world and lost.  It's not good for me.  But maybe tomorrow or after tomorrow when I get home and I watch the match or some points again, I will be glad with my level, with my style of game.
I think Rafa in the end deserves to win once again.
Q. Have you enjoyed this fortnight?  You haven't always looked like you enjoyed yourself on court.
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yes, yes, I enjoyed a lot the match of today.  The crowd was amazing.  They were exciting to keep watching tennis between Rafa and me.  We played great points.  We run a lot.  I think we did good, good game.
But Rafa wons.  I have to go home.  Anyways, that's been a good tournament for me.
Q. You went two sets to one up.  Did Rafa do something differently?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Just try to stay there because against Rafa every time of the match is difficult.  The first two sets were really tight.  Once Rafa breaks my serves, then the match comes difficult for me.
I had also my chances to break back in the fifth, and I miss some forehands.  I think the key of the match was only three, four points in the end, and he took the chances.
Q. What do you think playing against Nadal, when you see the way he plays, says about him?  After a match, what goes through your mind about the experience of facing Nadal?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, Rafa is a fighter.  Also he has a fantastic game.  He deserves to win today and keep winning, of course.  I'm glad to play in this level against the No. 1 in the world.  For me it's so good, looking forward to the future.
But I was close to beat him and I couldn't because Rafa always has a little bit more than the rest of the players on tour.  I think I had to keep working hard to see if in my next opportunity I can beat him.
Q. What did he say to you after the match?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Nice words from both.  We have a lot of respect each other.  Rafa is a great champion.
Q. On the set point when you lunged to your left to return the backhand serve and lost your footing, you were facedown on the grass, I'm sure you were completely exhausted, do you mind telling us what the emotion was as you were on the ground before Rafa came over?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Wasn't good for me because I didn't want to finish the match like that.  At least I could hit my forehand in or out, but is not a good way to close the match like that.
But also Rafa made some serves and volleys.  He played very smart point.  After almost five hours match, I fell down.  I wanted to stay there for all night long.  But Rafa cames to me and we made a big hug, and it was kind of him.
Q. You slipped a couple times, but also you dived several times.  How is your body feeling?  Do you remember the last time you were in a match like this?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: No.  But in the end the court was a little bit slippery because the sun goes out and was humid on the grass.  But this surface helps to slide a little bit more and to jump, and these things.
But I did just in the last days not very often.  But I think I won the best point of the match.  It was great to me to play Rafa in this level.
Q. Do you think you'll enjoy watching Rafa and Novak?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: It will be nice to watch.  I think I will be at home watching them.  I don't know who is going to win.  It's depends Rafa's body after tomorrow.  I think he will be fine, for sure.  But Nole is playing good again.  They are good champions.  They both deserve to get in the final.  Will be interesting semifinals.
Q. When was the last time you had the feeling to hit so strong on your forehand?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: No, normally I try to play like that.  But against Rafa, you must go for winners all the time.  I did most of the match.  But then I made some mistakes in the end, and was the key of the game.  I've been trying to keep making winners with my forehands all the time.  In couple of breakpoints, I did easy mistakes with the forehands.  But is the way to beat Rafa anyways.
Q. What do you think you'll remember most from today?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, the crowd at the end was amazing with me.  With both, I mean.  I think I played a really good tennis today.  But Rafa is Rafa, you know.  Sometimes you play your best tennis and it's not enough to beat him.
But I'm glad with my tournament.  Physically I'm okay.  That's give me confidence to keep going in the future.
Q. Yesterday the club gave an award to Gabriela Sabatini who made much for tennis in South America and Argentina.  What do you remember about her and how is her image in your vision?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: No, she's an idol for me and for our country.  She deserve to get this mention.  I couldn't see her yet, but it's an honor always for us to meet her and to have a chat or whatever.
She's also nice-looking and everybody loves Gabby, yeah.
Q. I think you're probably too humble to answer this in the affirmative, but are you going to come back next year and win Wimbledon?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I don't know (smiling).  If I recover myself after this match, yes.
Q. We think of hard courts maybe being your best surface.  You had a great French Open, great Wimbledon.  Do you take great satisfaction from the fact you've been at that level on all surfaces?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yes, yes, I'm playing good tournaments in different surface.  Now I'm looking forward to keep playing in this level at the US Open, which is one of my favorite tournaments to play.  I will try to improve a little bit more.
If I have chances to play Rafa or the top guys, I would like to be in that level to do a better match than today.
Q. Going forward, how is your schedule?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I play Los Cabos in Mexico, the beach (smiling).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT