THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 10, 2018
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. DEL POTRO/G. Simon   
7-6, 7-6, 5-7, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What is your physical condition now after this long two-day match as you face Rafa tomorrow?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, hopefully I feel good for tomorrow.  I been doing treatment already, looking forward for being ready for tomorrow.  But I think I will be in good conditions.  My body feels okay.  Normally I feel a little bit tired.  It's a big chance for me to face Rafa tomorrow.   
 Q.  What are the keys to facing Rafa for you, somebody you faced many times, but not in a long time on grass?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, it will be a different match that we played in Paris few weeks ago.  I will try to hold my service games most of the time.  If I want to beat him, I have to come to the net very often and play hard with my forehands, with my backhands, and try to take all the chances.   
 Q.  How much does it mean to you specifically to get to the quarterfinals here again?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: That means good signal for myself.  I'm doing a good season already.  I'm very proud to be in the last eight players of this tournament.  Everybody wants to be there, for sure.  There are only eight players reaching the quarterfinals.   
Also it's an honor to play against the No. 1 in the world tomorrow for a place in the semifinals.  I will try to enjoy.   
 Q.  You've been through so much.  Will it be very emotional for you?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yes, yes, I'm dealing with all my emotions on court.  I been through a lot of problems few years ago.  But now I'm thinking about the future, about my present as well.  I'm exciting to keep going.  I like to keep surprising myself in every tournament.   
 Q.  Where do you rate your game at the moment compared to where it's been in the past?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I don't know if I'm better or not, a better player than few years ago.  I'm No. 4 in the world, which is my highest ranking in my career.  That seems a good signal for me.  I will see how is my level on grass when I will play against Rafa tomorrow.   
 Q.  Still a number of Wimbledon champions left in the tournament.  Do you believe you can win here on grass?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, everybody knows the favorites are Roger and Rafa.  But the other six players are fighting for that big goal, as well.  It could be a surprise this year.  You never know.  We always want to win the title like this, but is not easy to beat these guys in this big event.   
If I'm quarterfinalist, that's means I have a chance to keep going.   
 Q.  Every player in the quarterfinals is aged 27 or older.  Is there any particular reason why the older players are doing so well?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: No, I don't know why.  We are getting older, but we still playing good.  I think we have experience to manage these kind of challenges.  I like to be in that part of the group.  I mean, we would like to play big matches against the big names, as well.  That's what happens in the quarterfinals here.   
 Q.  What are the things that you admire and respect most about Rafa as a player and competitor?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Everybody admires him as a competitor.  He's a fighter.  He always trying to be positive and thinking in the next ball.  Doesn't matter if he miss or not.  Is too tough to see a guy in front of the net when they are always positive during the game.   
As a player, it's amazing.  He's the No. 1.  He has been making records every Grand Slam.  I'm very proud to be in the same era as him and Roger.   
 Q.  What surprises you most about what he's been able to do 10 years after he first won Wimbledon?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah, I'm not surprising any more from them.  They can still making records in every tournaments.  It's amazing for the tennis world and also for the people who shared matches with them, and shared good moments at the lockers.  What I say, I'm very proud to be in the same time as them.   
 Q.  You and Rafa are both popular players on tour.  Who do you think will have the most support tomorrow?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I don't know.  Could be even.  I would like to have my big support tomorrow.  I will need a big support for play my best tennis.  But will be a good atmosphere, for sure.   
 Q.  How are you going to beat him?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I don't know (smiling).  Is a tough questions.   
I beat him couple of times few years ago, but never on grass.  So will be a big challenge to me.  We can talk about that after the match.   
 Q.  At times last night you had a bit of a frustrating character on court.  Was that the case?  What was the reason for it?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: No, just about the match.  I been making some efforts and mistakes.  After three sets, three hours on the match, you get frustration, for sure.  But then we came back today and I played another tiebreak.  I was lucky that he makes mistakes in important moments of the match.  I think that was the key of the game.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT