THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 5, 2018
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. DEL POTRO/F. Lopez   
6-4, 6-1, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How did you think you performed out there today?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: It was a really good match to me.  I played almost perfect.  I took all my breakpoint chances, broke his serves many times during the game.  I hold all my service games, as well.  I played what I expect before the match.   
I did the right match and I got through.   
 Q.  Can I ask you also about Marin Cilic going out today.  Roger Federer asked who could potentially stop him on grass.  He said big servers.  You're a big server yourself.  I believe you played him on grass here in 2012 at the Olympics.  You've beaten him on the hard courts, but what's the keys to beating him on the grass, Roger Federer?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: It's tough to beat Roger on grass as Rafa on clay.  They are so strong in both surface.   
Marin Cilic could be one of the guys who is dangerous for them.  But he lost an amazing match against Argentinian fellow, which is better for us.  But in this tournament, I mean, everything can happens.  There are surprise every day.  You have also big players as Kyrgios or other big names that they could be go far and be tough one for the top guys.   
 Q.  You mentioned Pella.  What is your reaction to how he managed to come back and do that against Cilic?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, he does really well.  He was playing great tennis after the third set till the end of the match.  I think Cilic made a lot of mistakes during his service game.  It's not unusual to see him making that kind of mistakes.   
But Guido was there trying to take the opportunity.  He deserved to win.   
 Q.  Your next opponent, Benoit Paire, how do you look at that match?  He's a bit unusual in the way he plays.  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah, well, Benoit is a tricky player.  He has too much talent.  He plays all the shots on court.  He can play dropshots, serves and volleys, can play flat with forehands and backhands.  Nobody know who's going to play.   
But Benoit also is a great player on grass.  In the third round, what I said before, everything could happen.  I will try to play even better than today.   
 Q.  If you get past Benoit going into the second week, what threat do you think you could make to run towards the final?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, honestly I'm not thinking too much about that.  I'm going match by match.  My first goal of this tournament is trying to get in the second week.  I'm having a big chance if I beat Benoit after tomorrow.  But I know how tough is going to be my match as well.   
I will try to play even better than today.  If my serve is works good and my forehand is works good, I will try to have little chance to win.   
 Q.  How different is the fact that the World Cup is with Wimbledon, how different is the atmosphere?  What's the trash talk like between the players?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, for the Argentinians, it's not that important any more.  But, of course, we still watching the soccer matches.  We take one of the favorites for us.  Also we have still one South American country playing tomorrow, I think -- two, Brazil and Uruguay.  We cheer for them, I think.   
But Wimbledon is a big event, too.  All the people knows that we are playing Wimbledon.  They have to choose which sport they would like to watch.   
 Q.  There's a rematch for Argentina with France in your next match.  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah, hopefully the results could be different, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT