THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 3, 2018
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. DEL POTRO/P. Gojowczyk
6-3, 6-4, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How did you feel about the way you played today?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I think I play well, to be my first match on grass after long time.  I did well.  It was a tricky conditions to play today.  It was too windy.  But I tried to be focus the most of the time when I was serving.  Then I took all my chances during the game, and that was the most important things during the game.
Q. Your next opponent, Feliciano Lopez.  He has the streak for the longest Grand Slams in a row.  What do you make of his longevity?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, it's amazing to get that record of him.  I know how tough is going to be my match against him because he's specialist on grass.  He's a lefty player.  He likes to do serves and volleys the most of the times.
I think nobody wants to play him, at least in the first couple of rounds of this tournament.  But if I want to go far, I have to be play my best tennis.  It will be a good chance to see how my game is on grass.
Q. How does playing on grass affect your confidence, your serve, your tactics with your serve?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I just adapt all my game to this surface.  I play I think similar game than other surface.  I serve really well today.  I made more than 20 aces in the game.  I know how important is the serve, the breakpoints, too, to keep winning matches on grass.  Could be only one breakpoint during the match, and that could be the key of the game.
Q. Does playing on grass affect your thinking at all about the serve, the difference between grass and the other surfaces?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yes, yes, I think so.  If you have a good serve on grass, you can win a lot of matches.  Feliciano has a big serve.  I am serving well, too.  We will see what's happen after tomorrow.
Q. You've had so many injuries.  Lopez has set this record for 15 years without missing a slam.  Is that a record of significance, something that is rather incredible?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I think it's a good record for him, but you should ask Feliciano what that's means for him.  I'm doing my own career.  I has been injuries for a couple of years, during 2014 and '15.  I didn't expect to be in the top 5 again after all that problems, winning big tournaments, fighting for the top positions of the ranking again.
Making a difference records to me, but I don't know if I will be available to play the same Grand Slams as him.
Q. It seemed to me you got quite frustrated in the first set today, the foot fault, double-fault, people talking.  How did you feel on court?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah, I got mad, but with myself.  I made a couple of mistakes.  I had a little discuss with the umpire.
Q. I don't speak Spanish.  Can you let me know what that was about.
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: It was about the service and my returns.  It was, like, a overrule, but I had the ball on my racquet and I played down the floor.  He thought that I couldn't get the serve.  He gave the point to the other guy.
But I tell him that was a mistake because I had the return on my hand.  Everybody can make mistakes.  I did also.  Everything is fine now.
Q. Were you pleased with the way you were able to maintain your composure?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah, yeah.  You have to get out quick from that situations and put your mind again on the game.  I did good because I hold all my service games.  When I had the chance to win the match, I did.
Q. Wimbledon say they'll probably have a shot clock next year like the US Open is going to have.  Do you have any opinion on it, whether you thought it was a good or bad idea?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: A what?
Q. Shot clock, 25 seconds.
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: They are trying to make us faster.  I think if this changes work for the fans, for the television, and for us as well, it could be a good opportunity to improve our game, too.  We are trying to adapt to these kind of things.
But I think they are okay.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT