ROLAND GARROS
June 2, 2018
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. DEL POTRO/A. Ramos-Vinolas
7-5, 6-4, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. That was a challenging first set, but after that, it looked like you were completely in control.  Is that how it felt for you out on the court?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah.  After the first set, I took the control of the game.  I played high level most of the match, but it was a tougher first set for both, but I did well in just couple of points, very important moments.
And then I played much better.  I felt good on court, and my movements were okay for today, so I'm glad for that.
Q. Were you especially pleased the way that you moved around the court today and managed to control the rallies, as well?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah.  It was the match that I expect before.  I knew that it will be long rallies during the match.  But I was focused all the time in my service game.  Then I played solid with my backhands and find a way to make winners with my forehands and I did well.
Q. When you are so in control of the game, how does that feel in the moment?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: It feels good, because I have the control of the game, and I can do whatever I want, and that's very important for myself.
Q. You possibly could meet Nadal in the semifinal.  The way he's playing at the moment, is that a challenge you would relish or do you think the level he's at at the moment may be a bit out of reach even for you at the moment?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, to be honest, I'm not thinking in that match yet.  I have to play against Isner or Herbert, who both are difficult guys to me.  And then we will see.
Rafa obviously is the favorite to win.  He's playing unbelievable tennis.  He's beating all the guys so quickly.  Nobody can find the way to win a set to him.
But I'm doing my own way, and I'm calm with that.
Q. We always talk about the pressure that you put on your body with your style of play and the challenges that you have had to overcome.  How do you feel physically and mentally at the end of week 1?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I think I'm strong enough to keep doing well.  Has been three difficult match to me, but I played well and I know I could play even better in my next round.
All the guys who are still alive in this tournament has big chance to go far, so now the tournament becomes more interesting to watch and to play.
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Spanish.
Q. It was a perfect day, practically, for many feelings.  You felt very comfortable, better than ever, on a surface that you don't really like.  You were good at rallying with a very complex rival.  You served well.  So it was a combination of positive things.
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yes, I was able to feel well.  It was the match that I was expecting.  As he's left-handed, my backhand was fairly easy to get through, and I also felt in good shape, I felt that my body was responding, and when the shots were long or the points were long, I was able to stand them.
I know that the first set was a hard one.  Afterwards, it became a bit more complicated for my opponent, because I started playing better.  As I said, I felt that I was in control of the match.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT