INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 16, 2018
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. DEL POTRO/S. Tsitsipas
7-5, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Juan, please.
Q. Good match today against Stefanos.  He is one of the new players of the next generation.  How did you feel playing against him?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I think he has a big potential to keep improve his game.  He plays really, really good match at the beginning of the match today.
And I think he has everything to win, even better in the future.  I like the way of his game.  And he have all the potential to be dangerous for us in the future.
Q. You played Pietrangeli today.  It was a really great lineup.  Most of the players say it's one of their favorite courts on tour.  How do you feel about that court?  And were you excited to see you were playing Stefanos on that court?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: It's a great atmosphere on that court.  All the players like to play in Pietrangeli court.
And we feel the fans pretty close to us.  And they create a good atmosphere.  They make their own game, beside our game.
And I think I will play the same court tomorrow, which is nice for me.
Q. Tomorrow, you get David Goffin.  Just your thoughts on him first as a player.  He's had some injuries, weird injuries, the last 12 months with the tarp at the French Open and the ball in his eye.  You've had different kind of injuries, too.  But do you have sympathy for the sort of strange injuries he's had over the recent times?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah.
Well, I think we both are feeling good, we are fit, we are free of pain.  And it's gonna be a really tough one for me.  I mean, David has a great game, and he could be in the final on this tournament and every tournament.
And it will be a big challenge, and I will try to play even better than today.
Q. He's one of the players on tour with a style most different from yours.  You have big power, and he's a much smaller guy with - -
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah.
He has a nice style of the game.  And he's so fast, and he likes to play from the baseline.  And like he can mix it up during the game, as well.
Also, he's very smart to play.  So it will be interesting match tomorrow.
Q. Currently, five of the top nine players are the same height as you or taller.  Why do you think that tall players are doing so well right now?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, we like to play hard.  And we -- all the tallest guys has a big game and very potential game.  On hard courts, grass court, and even playing these kind of clay courts.  The balls go fast, and that help us a little bit more.  And I think that's the reason.
Q. What do you think the future of tennis is for tall people?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, Zverev is young and he's taller.  And Tsitsipas is tall, as well.
And I don't know what's gonna be in the future.  But, the game is improving every tournament.  It goes fast, every week.  And you must be strong enough to support this game.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT