MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 10, 2018
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. LAJOVIC/J. Del Potro   
3-6, 6-4, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Spanish, please.   
 Q.  Can you tell us something about the game?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah, of course, for sure he's a very difficult opponent.  Here on clay he plays really well.  His game forced me to commit some easy errors, some important errors, especially in the tiebreak.  I think I missed a lot of forehands at some important moments.   
Well, just some small details that made the match fall on his side.   
 Q.  Can you tell us about something positive you take from this week here in Madrid.  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah, well, I think there are always positive things that you can take with you so that you can improve.  It's been my first tournament on clay.  I think that I played two acceptable matches.  Lajovic is very good on clay, as I've said.   
I think it was an even match.  I think I can improve a lot of things towards Rome and Roland Garros.  I can level up my game.  Right now I'm quite calm.   
 Q.  What do you have to improve exactly towards Rome and Roland Garros?  The other day you said if your forehand is working well, you can step into the game.  Today he forced you to commit errors.  What do you think you have to improve?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Perhaps my game overall.  Nothing specific.  I think that today in the tiebreak my serve and my forehand, it was under my control.  I think that I missed two forehands when we were 4-All, and at 6-All, too.  Well, to me I missed three forehands in a tiebreak which were a priority for easy forehands.   
It's what I was saying:  normally they would go in and I would be able to win the match.  Today they went out and I lost the match.  I managed to make it to the tiebreak.  I was under control.  I think that's something positive for today's match.   
What I have to improve is trying not to commit those unforced errors.   
 Q.  You beat Roger in New York.  You're one of the players at the top.  I think you have had a hard time with injuries.  Here in Madrid people love you.  How do you feel playing here in Madrid?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I feel that people support me here.  I always want to thank them for all the love that they give me.  I really enjoy coming and playing here in Madrid, in this tournament.   
Other than tennis, it's a nice place to be here.  I really enjoy being here.  I have been walking around Madrid.  I have eaten really well.  I always like to play here in Madrid.  I always like to come back here.   
 Q.  After these days here in Madrid, how do you feel on clay physically towards Rome and Roland Garros?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, good.  I'm feeling good.  It's not the same to be training than to be competing.  That's why I say that two matches perhaps are not too much.  But for me it's okay.  I think I am getting some momentum.   
Rome is another opportunity for me to feel good on clay, which is of course one of the surfaces which is more tricky for me because of the feet movement, because the rallies are a little bit longer.  You have to try to make winners all the time more than other surfaces.  You also need to have a big serve.   
But I'm playing well.  Tomorrow I can try to train again, and I don't have to worry about anything physical.  I'm in shape.   
 Q.  Could you do an analysis about Boca, big champions.  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: The champions.   
 Q.  Leaders since 2016.  The team receives a lot of criticism.  How do you handle that?  What do you think about that?  How do you handle criticism?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, in Argentina, it's always the same.  I think Spain here is similar to Argentina.  When someone is very passionate with sport, when he wins, he's really happy, and when he loses, he just receives a lot of criticism.  On the side of the players, we know how to live with that.  We have learned.   
And Boca, as you said, is a big champion.  Today they are celebrating a lot of things.  But next week in the Copa Libertadores, they have to make it to the next round.  They have a goal to win that cup, too.   
From my side, I'm happy because Boca is big champion.  What happens next week we will see.  But we always know that the players at Boca are going to give their 100% even though they receive criticism.  I'm sure next week they will do great.   
 Q.  This afternoon Schwartzman will play against Nadal.  What will you tell him?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, for me he has to be aggressive.  I think the long rallies are going to fall on Rafa's side.  They're going to suit Rafa.  The conditions tonight are going to be great.  I would just tell him to enjoy it a lot.  Perhaps it's those types of matches where you can have a great day and maybe he can beat him.   
I just want to support him.  I'm sure that I'll be in the hotel eating some jamon watching the game, that's all I can say.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT