MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
March 27, 2018
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. DEL POTRO/F. Krajinovic   
6-4, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  It must have been pretty tricky to play in the cool and breezy conditions, but you turned around the 1-4 deficit with a run of nine successive games.  That must have felt pretty good?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah, but the weather condition was really bad to play tennis (smiling).  We couldn't feel 100% the ball in our racquet.  We couldn't make good points from the baseline.   
But there were things I survived the match of today.  I won another time, and hopefully tomorrow I can feel better with the tennis balls and with the weather conditions make me feel better on court.   
 Q.  Can you talk a little bit about the fans here?  Obviously they're very supportive towards you.  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: They are so nice.  I got too much love from them.  I am excited to keep winning, to stay longer and play in this tournament.   
I know it will be the last time here in Key Biscayne, and I think playing here they make a special tournament for all the South American players, basically me (smiling).  I'm trying to enjoy the last time playing here.   
 Q.  What is it that makes it special here, Key Biscayne, for you and for the Latin American players?  What is it that you'll miss the most?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I know many Argentinian fans live in Key Biscayne, and they are so close to the stadium.  That's why they come every night, every day, and I will miss them, for sure.  I will miss the facilities for us, playing in Key Biscayne.  I always stay in Brickell area, and it's very close to me.   
But we will see what's happen next year.  I think I saw some pictures and could be great, too.   
 Q.  Milos next.  Can you talk about that match.  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I think will be a different match than the Indian Wells, because we have different conditions.  Milos, he's improving his game every day, and he's playing very solid in this tournament  and I think he has the potential to win the tournament, as well.  It will be an interesting match to see how I feel and how my level is.   
 Q.  Can you talk about the fact that some of the names that people expected would still be here, you know, Federer, Djokovic, whatever, they're not in the tournament.  Does it put more pressure on you, less pressure on you, to sort of be the big-name male player who is carrying the flag still?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: No, I don't feel that pressure.  I'm just doing my own tournament, my own road, and see how far can I go, you know?   
I'm doing well, but I'm not thinking about ranking, about this kind of pressure.  I'm just enjoying the last time playing in Key Biscayne with all of these fans, and this is what I try to do every match.   
 Q.  Do you allow yourself to think about possibly winning the Sunshine Double?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: What?  (Smiling.)   
 Q.  Indian Wells/Miami.  Do you allow yourself to possibly think of achieving something that so few players have done?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, it is still a possibility because I'm winning, but I'm not thinking on that, to be honest.  I just want to win tomorrow.  Then see how my body is to play another match.   
And what I say before, I already won two tournaments in a row.  Could be great if I win the third one.  But if not, I will have a good vacation at home, and I'm waiting for that, too.   
 Q.  You have spoken very complimentary about Lleyton Hewitt, Marat Safin, Kuerten.  Marcelo Rios won the title here 20 years ago.  I'd like to hear your thoughts on him, memories of him.  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I never play against Rios, but I know a lot the other guys, and they have big names.  They are two South American former No. 1 in the world, and we grow up watching them.   
I think it's time to have a South American player fighting for the top positions and will be great if I am that player.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT