MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
March 25, 2018
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. DEL POTRO/K. Nishikori
6-2, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You're in such a rich form at the moment.  You won Indian Wells, playing with so much confidence here in Miami.  How much better do you think you can play?  Are you feeling you're playing as well as you can?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I think I'm playing good.  I can play even better, but I need to get confidence playing in this court, trying to keep winning matches.  But is not easy.  My body start to feel tight because all my success.
But I'm enjoying a lot playing this tournament.  I would like to stay longer because it's a special tournament for me.  Is the last time playing in Key Biscayne, so I would love to stay here few more days.
Q. Last year you played a limited schedule on clay.  What is the plan for this year?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: It could be the same.  I've been doing well this beginning of the year.  I don't like too much the tournaments on clay, so maybe I quit few tournaments from the start of the season, of the clay season.  I will try to be 100% for French Open.  Maybe some tournaments before the French.
Q. Today you hit many good dropshots.  Is that something you were planning to use?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I was planning to do that before the match, make him run with all my shots.  I did well.  I took all my break chances.  I served well.
I think he is still having to get the power as he had in the past.  But he's in a good way to get that.  He just need time to recovery his best game.
Q. 20 years ago Marcelo Rios became No. 1 here when he defeated Andre Agassi in three sets.  Could you share your thoughts and memories of Marcelo Rios from Chile, the great champion.
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: He's a great champion, of course.  I don't have anything to compare with him.  I'm doing my own career.  This is my own tournament.  I'm not thinking about the ranking.  To be honest, I don't care if I'm 6, 5, 2, whatever.  I just want to enjoy this kind of atmosphere on court and the level of my tennis.
Q. During the match with Haase, you hit an unbelievable down-the-line backhand in the first set.  Today even a better one recovering from a lob.  You used your wrists.  Does it mean you are completely okay with them now?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I'm better.  I'm better.  I am still doing treatments two, three hours a day for my wrist before the practice, after match.  That's take me a lot of time every day.  That's what I have to do if I wants to keep playing tennis.
But my backhand is still improving.  I can mix it up with my slices, with my dropshots.  I think it's a good signal for the future.  Hopefully I can hit even more with my two-handed backhands, because I like to hit in that way.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT