MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
March 21, 2018
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You told us on Sunday that you were going to celebrate, here in Miami, your victory in Indian Wells.  Can you tell us what happened during the celebration?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: No, I cannot tell you details of that.  We just have dinner with all my team.  We took some drinks, and that was enough for me, because I was exhausted and we travel almost five hours to get here.   
My body feels all the matches and having the final, so I need to recover myself to be ready for this tournament, and then I will have time to make a break and celebrate with family and friends.   
 Q.  Can you talk about what you like about Key Biscayne and this tournament and your thoughts about moving the tournament next year?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I like the tournament.  It's very easy to me, because I am staying very close to the stadium.  I like to see Argentinian fans around the courts, Latino-American people, also, and the facilities for players are great, so that's all the things make a good tournament.   
I will miss this tournament, playing on Key Biscayne next year, but I think it could be even better in the new place.   
 Q.  Where did you have dinner, if you could share with us about your favorite restaurant down here?  And just the victory that you had the other day, what did that do for you as far as in the big picture?  What did that victory mean to you?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: It was an epic match.  The level of tennis was very high.  The people love to see this kind of tennis.  And also the passion who both players shows on the finals was great to see.   
To me, beating Roger in another final, having a positive record against him in finals, is some good.  And also to get my first title playing a 1000 Masters in Indian Wells what is a place I like to play, that's make me feel special, and I'm excited to keep enjoying these days here in Miami with all my people.  And also, I'm excited to keep playing good tennis here.   
 Q.  Where did you have dinner?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Doesn't matter (smiling).   
 Q.  You have a huge following here.  Over the years, have you had a chance to meet with any fan organizations or mingle with them at all?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah, I spend a lot of time with the fans during my practice sessions, and then off court I meet them every time.  And I also walk around the streets every day.  I like to go to the supermarket and I meet fans there too.   
You know, Miami has a big Argentinian, how you say, society, living here in Miami, so I meet them everywhere.   
 Q.  Do you feel now you're in a good position to maybe be a strong challenger at the four Grand Slams?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: No, I'm not thinking too much.  I'm just enjoying the moment what I am living.  I know what I have been through to get this time and this place and this ranking.   
I am still calm, you know.  I came here to play another tournament.  It will be my fourth tournament in a row.  I'm tired.  And mentally and physically it's not easy to deal with all of these emotions, no?   
But then I will have a break, I will see what tournament we play on clay, because my body feels that surface, and I want to stay healthy during the whole season.  That's my biggest goal.  Then I will see if can still surprise myself and see what can I do?   
 Q.  Have you retaken a look at your goals after such a strong start, approaching the top 5?  What are your expectations after such a strong start?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: No, I always say the ranking number doesn't change or doesn't mean too much to me.  I was No. 1000 few years ago, and now I'm No. 6.  I have good chances to keep growing, growing up, but I'm not thinking about that.   
I just -- I mean, I'm enjoying to play tennis again.  I like to play tennis in front of all my fans here in Miami and not think this too much, to enjoy, and I think it's enough to me for this time of my life and see.  Of course I would like to stay longer here in Miami playing tennis, but I will try to go match by match.   
 Q.  Regarding your recovery, the fact you played a lot of matches, have you been doing something special that you haven't been doing the past weeks in order to recover better to rest your injured wrists?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah.  Well, I'm doing treatments every day, every time, twice a day.  I hit the ball already yesterday for 40 minutes.  I will practice this afternoon.  But that's it.  Then I need to do treatments to recover my legs, my back, my wrist, and face all my body to be 100% on Friday.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT