BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 17, 2018
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J.M. DEL POTRO/M. Raonic
6-2, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Big win today, but were you surprised at all how quickly you were able to take charge?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah, a little bit.  It was surprising to see him serving not too hard, and I broke his serve very quick in both sets.  That give me the control of the match.
I play a smart game, because the conditions were tough to play, but I did everything good.  I served well.  I took all my chances.  It was an easier match than what I expect before.
Q. You're facing Roger tomorrow, and he said in his news conference after his win that when you guys play it's kind of like an arm wrestle because you know what he's going to do.  He knows what you're going to do.  It's a matter of who gets there first, I guess.
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah, we play great matches together.  I love to play against him.
He's the favorite to win tomorrow, but I will try to do my best tennis.  I beat him in the past, and I know how can I do to repeat that, but is not easy.  It will be a good challenge to see how my level is against him.
And then I think everybody was expecting that final, and I will try to enjoy the atmosphere on court.
Q. Do you have any advice for tennis players?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yes.  Many advice to you, but -- well, the first thing is trying to be happy doing what you want to do.  Then work hard.  Do a big effort to get what you want.
And also, you must study at the same time you're playing tennis, because it's very important for your life, and I did when I was young.  And thanks to my mother, the day when I finish my tennis career, I can do whatever I want.
Q. Who do you think the conditions will favor tomorrow?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Sorry?
Q. Who do you think the conditions will favor?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I would like to play with different conditions than today, because the game could be better for play and to watch (smiling).
But I don't know what is going to be the weather for tomorrow, but anyways, my matches -- I do my match in different way, not thinking about the weather or the condition.  And Roger, I think, does the same as me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT