ROLEX PARIS MASTERS
November 2, 2017
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J.M. DEL POTRO/R. Haase
7-5, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. Considering that after this victory you are quite close to the 8th place, is something that's put yourself extra pressure for next round?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: No.  No.  I take like extra motivation to me.  It's going to be a good battle next round trying to qualify for London.  But anyways, I think I have two ways to take, one is London, one is my home and for vacations.  And both ways are great to me, but, of course, I would love to reach London for once again.
But still, a really hard challenge to me.
Q. What did that mean to you to get back to London after all you've been through?  Can you picture it?  Will it be special?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I don't know because I didn't get yet, but could be fantastic moment for me.  I didn't expect to get this close to qualify for London.  I didn't expect to reach the top 10 position at this time.
And everything is very amazing after all my problems, all my injuries.  And I'm excited to keep improving for this kind of surprise.  I love to surprise myself, too, and that's what I'm doing now.
Q. How do you feel physically because you are coming from Shanghai, the final in Basel, and then you are here?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I'm so tired, but it's normal.  I think this is the last effort, could be the last effort of the year.  Tomorrow could be my last match of the year also.  And I had to do my best and we'll see if I go for another tournament or no.
But my body is still feeling all my effort, but I think I will be okay for tomorrow.
Q. Your story this season is one of the big stories of the year, great, great comebacks.  What do you make of two other great stories with Rafa and Roger this year?  Rafa has had injuries too and Roger obviously is resting his body.  What do you make of what they have done?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, they make history.  They won Grand Slam again.  They are No. 1 and No. 2 in the world after all their problems.  They still in fantastic shape and they are winning all tournaments where they play.
And it looks like that time doesn't -- it goes for them.  And I would love to be in the top 10 because I think after them I am the oldest guy on the top 10 and could be great, another great history for the tennis fans.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT