SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 14, 2017
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
R. FEDERER/J. Del Potro   
3-6, 6-3, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  For someone we didn't think would play today, you played a good match.  Were you surprised to play that good after what happened yesterday?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I have been playing good tennis this week, but I feel good during the warmup before the match, and I decide to play, because against Roger always is an honor to play.  The court was really faster, so maybe that help me to my game.   
And I think I did well, but Roger play much better than me some moments of the match, and he took the chances.   
 Q.  You talked with the umpire a few times.  What made you feel upset?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: No, I told with him just something about the crowd, because they were talking a lot between serves, between my serves.  Sometimes it's very bothering.  I mean, they bother you a lot.  But that was the only thing with what I talk with umpire.   
 Q.  Can you tell us if you feel any pain in your wrist?  And if the pain actually went away as the night went by and this morning?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, now I feel very pain, very painful now after the match, after the big effort is the worst moment for my wrist.   
But they say I don't have any risk playing this match, so that's what I play.  And now I have few days to take a rest, to take a rest of my wrist without the racquet.  If, in these days I feel better to compete 100% during the whole tournament, I will continue with my schedule.   
 Q.  Do you think this game at 2-All in the second set, when he breaks you, is it the one that changes the momentum a little bit?  Because you started really well, and then after that it got more complicated.  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah, because he took the confidence after that game.  He broke me and he start to play more aggressive.  He served much better after that game.   
I was a little upset with something.  Nothing about tennis, you know.  And you cannot give any advantage against these guys.   
But anyway, I think he beat me in a good way.  He played better in just couple of moments in both sets, and that was the only reason for my loss.   
 Q.  Do you think Roger is in better shape than months ago at the US Open?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I think the court helps his game a lot, and he always is in good shape (smiling).  He looks like an unbelievable athlete, you know.  I think in this court not many players can beat him.  Maybe Rafa tomorrow, but if not, he's the only one who can play an excellent tennis on this faster surface, you know.   
 Q.  You just touched just then about the final.  What's your gut feeling?  Who do you think will win the final tomorrow?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Rafa is playing so good, but I think Roger could win if he feels the ball really, really well.  Because the court is so fast, and for the game of Roger is much better than Rafa's game, but Rafa is a fighter and he never give up.  He's a lefty guy, so will be interesting to watch.   
 Q.  You mentioned the audience today and that it was annoying, especially cheering for Roger all the time.  Is there anything positive you take home with you from this tournament, from the organization here and Shanghai as a city?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: To be clear, I like the Chinese fans.  I love the atmosphere, like today, but is sometimes when many people talk between serves is very annoying for me and for everyone.  Not just myself, no?   
But I love to play against Roger, Rafa, Djokovic with this crowd.  I know that most of the people wants to them win that matches, you know.  Just when I play New York or when I play close to Buenos Aires, I have more fans cheering for me, but if not, they are local and everywhere.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT