CHINA OPEN
October 3, 2017
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. DEL POTRO/P. Cuevas
7-6, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. It's your first time at the China Open.  How do you feel being here?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I feel so glad to be playing for the first time in my career.  I think the tournament, it's great.  We have a good facilities for practice, for enjoy the city, to be nice in this amazing country.  I'm enjoying a lot.
Q. You didn't play since the US Open.  How did you feel on the court today?  Have you solved everything that needed to be solved through the time of rest?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: No, I think I play a good match.  It was enough to win.  I play good in important moment of the match, that's the tiebreaks and the last game of the second set.
I think now I need time on court to feel as I felt in New York.  But it's just time and keep winning couple of matches to get that confidence again.
Q. Dimitrov is the next opponent.  Is it more difficult for you to be confronted with a difficult opponent early or do you feel fresh enough to have a go at it?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I think I'm fresh.  I just came from home.  I'm strong to play the tournament.
But of course, to have Dimitrov in the second round is not easy for me.  He's one of the favorites to win the tournament.  Could be a quarterfinalist or semifinalist or the final match.  But tomorrow I have to be ready for that challenge and see what's happen.
Q. After three times with a wrist injury, you finally came back to the court last year.  At the beginning of this year you dropped out of the Australian Open in consideration of your health.  How does the wrist injury influence you now?  Did it affect your match?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I think I'm healthy.  I fixed all my wrist problems during the last year, and this year too.  My wrist is getting better every week.  I'm hitting my backhand better and better.  I think I'm in the good way to feel 100% very soon.
But now I'm trying to finish the season in good shape, to do a good schedule for the next year.
Q. Your ranking from last year is rising.  Could you please talk about your ranking target.
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I don't know my ranking at the moment, but I think I'm close to the 20, 25.  I don't mind the number.  I just want to play tennis, just want to making great moments on court as I did in New York, as I did last year during the Olympics, during the Davis Cup.  I'm enjoying tennis a lot after all my wrist problems.
I think I have luck to be playing tennis again.  It doesn't matter what my ranking is.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT