U.S. OPEN
September 2, 2017
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. DEL POTRO/R. Bautista Agut
6-3, 6-3, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You must be just really happy with your form here at the moment.  Just talk a bit about how you're feeling and how you're playing.
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah, I think I played the best match of the tournament.  I hit so well my forehand.  I serve well during the whole match.  I play very smart with my slice.
I came to the net very often, tried to be aggressive all the time, and I think I play well.
Q. You're going to meet Dominic again, like last year.  What do you think about this match?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I would love to (smiling).
No, he has everything to win the match.  He's having a great season already.  He's the favorite for the match.  But I like to play him.  I like to play him in this tournament.  Hopefully I can do a good match.
Q. What does it mean to you defeating a top-ranked Spaniard, No. 11?  And how are you feeling about moving to the next round and representing Latin America?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, Bautista is very difficult guy to play.  He has everything on his game and is never easy to beat one guy at level as him.  I'm glad for my success.
I'm looking to the next round.  I'm looking for the South American people, am just representative myself, and doing my job, and I know many South American fans are behind me cheering for me, supporting me.
It's great to have one South American or two or more than two players in the last round.
Q. What do you think about the development of this tournament, top 8 players?  Only three are left.  One of them you play now.  Just opening the door for you, also?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I don't know.  I think that bottom half of the draw is going to be surprising for one guy.  But in the top half, you have Roger and Rafa, Dominic, as well, and they are favorites to win a Grand Slam title, for sure.
But I'm just doing my own way, and I have a very important match against Dominic.
Q. What were your sort of feelings and expectations coming into this tournament?  Did you feel like you had a chance to do well?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I just came to try to get better and surprisingly my serve.  Is very special tournament to me.
I'm getting good energy from the crowd in every match, and I'm feeling every day much better with my game.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT