ROLEX SHANGHAI MASTERS
October 10, 2018
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. DEL POTRO/R. Gasquet
7-5, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. The start of the match, you didn't look like you would maybe end it.  You looked like you were struggling since Beijing, I guess.  How did you make it and were you sure you were going to play today?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: It wasn't easy to play for me today.  I did what I can.  I didn't run too much.  But I think I played with all my strength in the important moment of the match.
I was in the tiebreak, and I was in the 5-All in the first set.  And then I tried to hold my service game during the game, and that's it.
But of course I would love to feel better, first of all to myself, and then to play tennis, but it's gonna be difficult because I'm not taking time to recover 100%.  But it could be the last effort of the trip, so I will try to keep playing and then take a break.
Q. You had this cold obviously last week, as well.  You have had it for quite a long time now.  Must have been a week or so?  Maybe a week?  What are you doing to overcome it?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I started with this on Friday, I think.  And then I decided to don't play the semifinals, but Fognini came before me to pull out.  And of course in the finals, you have to be there just to playing and see what's happen.
But now it's important tournament.  I'm in Asia.  Of course I want to play tennis here, but I don't want to put at risk my health, also.
I know I have been talking with the doctors every day.  It's like, how you say, virus?  And to feel better, I need to stop in some moments.  But I don't want to stop now, so maybe after the tournament I can take a break and see what could be my next tournament.
Q. You have qualified for London, and obviously you're not well.  You were down in the first set and the second.  What's keeping you going?  Why are you still playing?  Why haven't you stopped?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, because I don't like to retire.  I don't like to stop matches because of me and for being respectful with my opponent, too.
I got lucky that I win, but tomorrow will be a different day.  If I have a good night today and I have a good recovery tomorrow morning, maybe I will feel a little bit better for tomorrow night and play better than today.  But I'm going like hour by hour and see how I'm feeling.
Q. We are from Japan.  We hope you can get better soon.  Also, the Big Four is dominating the Grand Slams these two years.  What's special about that, in your opinion?  You're obviously one of the best rivals for them.  How are you getting ready for winning them in the future?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I think they are still being the best players of the world.  They have the experience, the game, the passion, the fire to win the Grand Slam.  It's not easy to beat them and get a Grand Slam title when they are fit and they are playing in a good level.
I like to be a tough rival for them, but I also know how is my conditions in front of them when I have the chance to win.  I was close in the US Open tournament, but in the end, Novak has something else than me or the rest of the players, and they just keep winning the big events.
Q. It's coming to the end of the season.  How do you think of your performance this year?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Very good.  I think I'm doing a good season.  I had my highest ranking ever in this year.  I won a Masters 1000.  I play another Grand Slam final.
I qualify for London very early, which is good for me.  I don't know what could be in the next months to my career, but I'm very glad.  I'm very pleased with my year.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT