INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 15, 2017
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. DEL POTRO/G. Dimitrov
3-6, 6-2, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Can you talk through the match a little bit?  You obviously came back after a tough first set and also tough opener to get your clay court season going.
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I think I play well during the whole match.  I had my break points in the first set, and Grigor played better in that moment.  I think he took the opportunities.
But in the second and in the third I played solid from the baseline.  I hit harder with my backhands, and I think my serves help a little bit to win the match.
Q. Obviously another topic today, Pico Monaco announced that he is retiring, someone you obviously know very well.  Can you talk about that a little bit, to see one of your long-time standing companions on the tour to hang up his racquet?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: We will miss him on tour, for sure.  He's a nice guy, friend of mine, friend of most of the players on tour.
He made a fantastic career.  He reached top 10 positions few years ago.  He won many tournaments, and I think he took a good decisions to move the way of his life for another things.
I wish all the best.  I know him a lot, and I know he's happy with the decision and he's happy with his present at home.
Q. Was your preparation for this tournament -- obviously you wanted to play Madrid and couldn't.  Had to travel back home.  Did you get a lot of time to prepare?  Because you had other things on your mind the past few weeks.
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: No, no, I didn't prepare this tournament.  This week could be my preparation for French Open, too.
I just start to play on clay few days ago here in Rome.  My grandfather died a couple of days ago, and I was at home with my family.  And I think now it's time to come back, trying to do my best.
I'm excited to play few matches here in Rome and then to come in Paris after a long, long time.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT