CHINA OPEN
October 7, 2018
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








N. BASILASHVILI/J. Del Potro
6-4, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. I understand you'd been unwell.  What was the illness that you had?  How much did it affect you today?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, as you can see, my game of today wasn't good as it was the last matches in the tournament.  I had some problem the last three days, and it was affect a little bit to my game.
But Nikoloz played unbelievable.  He played a really strong game.  Hopefully I can feel better for Shanghai.  I came straightaway to Asia to feel good and play my best tennis.  That's what is my wish for the next days.
Q. Do you think the length of the match yesterday affected your preparation for today's final?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: No.  I was bad yesterday, too.  But Fognini came before to pull it out.  I did everything that I can to be better for the final.  It wasn't enough time to feel 100%.
But I think it doesn't affect too much to my game.  Of course, I would love to be in better shape, but it was my condition.  I played with these conditions.
Q. You shared a photo with Yao Ming on your Instagram.  What was your exchange like with him yesterday?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: It was a nice, nice moment to meet him.  We have a friend of common, which is Luis Scola.  He was a basketball player from Argentina.  He shared team with Yao Ming in Houston.  We talk a little bit about him.
It was a nice experience to meet someone taller than me (smiling).
Q. Were you getting the sense maybe Nikoloz was a little bit tight in the final game?  Even with your physical condition, did you think there might have been a chance in that game?
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah, I had my chances in the first and then in the second.  But I wasn't able to play with that fire that I have in all my matches.
Nikoloz played a smart points in the important moments.  He doesn't miss any easy ball in that moment.  I think he deserves to win because I couldn't play in my best level.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT