SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 11, 2016
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. GOFFIN/J. Del Potro   
4-6, 6-3, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  It started well in the first set and got complicated after that.  In the third set there were so many breaks despite you have a big serve.  Can you explain what was the most difficult for you today?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I think at the beginning of the match I played much better than him, and then he's starting to go up with the level of the game and he's starting to return much better in the second and in the third set.   
And then I tried to make winners more often but I did mistakes.  In the end of the match, I make mistake with my forehands and in important moments, and I think he took all the chances to win the match.   
 Q.  You haven't played between Davis Cup and this tournament.  Do you think you were maybe a bit rusty?  If so, what are your thoughts on David's game?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, he's playing great.  He made finals last week.  He's so fast on the baseline.  I think he's a great player to play.  But anyways, I was close to win.  I played a good match.   
But for me it has been a great season.  Trying to do a good comeback after many injuries.  This is just a match.  I'm so glad to be playing in this tournament.  Hopefully I can be better in the next two tournaments for me.  Then I will rest and prepare the big important challenge for me and for my country.   
 Q.  Many top players have been in the same position as you in having the Davis Cup to look forward to but still having a few tournaments to play.  Novak and Andy have both kind of struggled to really motivate themselves in the tournaments because they were just thinking about the Davis Cup final.  Are you finding that difficulty at the moment?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I'm trying to be smart and playing in every tournament as I did in everywhere.  Still maybe two months for the Davis Cup finals, and before we have great tournaments to play and I'm still having a chance to go up in the rankings and be in better position for the next season.   
But for me and for my country, as everybody knows, is very important in the finals.  Of course we are motivated for that and we always keep thinking about that.   
 Q.  There is one other thing I'd like to ask you totally separate.  Don't think I'm just asking you, because I intend to ask all the other players.  What do you think when you see Maria Sharapova playing in a big exhibition match with Billie Jean King and John McEnroe and all that when she's still effectively banned from the game because she took a banned substance?  Do you think that's right or not?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I don't have any idea on that.  But I think they cut or they make short the suspension, and I think for the tennis world is gonna be nice to see her back on tour.  Everybody's waiting for her.  I don't know what's happened, but I wish all the best to her.   
 Q.  You have two tournaments left.  What are they?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Stockholm and Basel.   
 Q.  Not Paris?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I don't know yet (smiling).  Depends the results, but at this moment I will play Stockholm, Basel, and then we will see.   
 Q.  Looking forward to next year and hopefully a full year on tour, if you had two wishes for next year, one for yourself and then one for the game of tennis in general, what would they be?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, trying to be with a better ranking than today, could be my one goal, my first goal on the tennis life.   
And then outside tennis, just be happy, you know.  Is not easy when you travel a lot and you spend time away of home and you cannot share moments with your friends, family.   
But I'm so happy doing this.  I miss it a lot when I was injury, and I'm looking forward to be on tour for more years.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT