CHINA OPEN
October 3, 2018
Juan Martin Del Potro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. DEL POTRO/K. Khachanov   
6-4, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Obviously Khachanov pushed Nadal to the brink in New York.  What were your thoughts on how he played tonight?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I think we played a good match.  Basically in the second set we played a good tiebreak with tough points.  Karen is a difficult opponent.  He has everything to keep improving.  He has a big potential to growing in the ranking very soon.   
I think I did very good match today.   
 Q.  It's like a double win for you because you qualified for London.  How does that feel?  Since 2013 the last time you went there.  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I'm feeling good.  I saw some news about that, because I didn't know before the match.  I'm happy to get in London after five years.  Will be amazing moments for me.  I will love to be part of that eight players, to make that event.   
Of course, it's a very special tournament for us.  I will be exciting to do well in London.   
 Q.  Karen says that you're his idol, one of his favorite players growing up.  If you're aware of this, is it a strange feeling to play someone across the net who you know enjoyed watching you play growing up?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Well, I also enjoy his game.  What I say before:  Karen is a great guy, we have a great relation on tour.  I saw his game is improving every week.  He has a big potential to be better in a very short period.  Is going to be dangerous for us.   
But I wish all the best to him because he's a nice guy.  I like to talk with him, to practice with him.  We have a very respect for each other.   
 Q.  I saw that the footballer Javier Mascherano has been here watching you.  You're obviously friends.  He's a very aggressive football player.  Anything from his game that you have taken into tennis, anything from his life-style, or the other way around maybe?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: Yeah, first is nice to have a great player as Mascherano watching my games.  We have a good relation.  We admire him, of course.  He played a lot for our country.  He played in the best teams in the world.   
Of course, we have something to learn about his life-style, the passion that he put in every game.  We try to do the same in tennis.   
Also is a good experience when we have dinners together or we have the time to talk about our different sports.  He's a nice guy.  I'm happy that he's coming to watching my games.   
 Q.  You got a lot of presents yesterday.  How was the experience for you?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: It was very kind for you, for the Chinese fans.  I got many, many gifts, many presents that I will keep in my heart.  I will take them to Argentina, for sure.   
I like to watch them, seeing Argentinian flags, Boca Junior flags.  They are following me everywhere.  They make me feel very special.   
 Q.  A lot of the players, especially the WTA players, this week have said how tired they are at this time of year.  How are you feeling?  You actually have another month to go, longer than the WTA season, London now for you.  How are you feeling at this point?  
JUAN MARTIN DEL POTRO: I agree with her, with them.  Obviously we are tired.  Is not easy to come and play in Asia in this time.  But the tournaments are great.  We love to be here.  Also we need these points to get better for the end of the year and to be better in the next season.  That's why all the players come to play here.   
But now after these tournaments in Asia, we'll see what's could be my next one.  If you play London, it's going to be a longer season for me.  But in the end we are eight players in the same situation, which the schedule could be the difference between us.  I have to be smart on that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT