WUHAN OPEN
September 24, 2018
Wang Xiyu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
WANG XIYU/B. Pera   
6-4, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.   
 Q.  Many fans asked for your autograph after the match.  In the French Open, many fans asked for photographs.  Being a famous junior player compared to a professional player, how do you feel different?  
WANG XIYU: Well, being a junior player, there are only a few fans for pictures and autographs.  But now there's always a group of people following you.   
 Q.  A year ago in the Tianjin Open, you had a breakthrough in your career.  Also in the Wuhan Open you won your first match in a higher-level event.  Personally speaking, how do you feel differently compared to last year?  
WANG XIYU: Technically I'm more stable, more down-to-earth.  Last year I went through some events, and on a professional level I felt mature mentally.   
 Q.  You decided to stop playing junior events and turn professional after the US Open.  Are you fully prepared to turn professional now?  
WANG XIYU: It's not the problem if you're ready or not.  You have to face it eventually.  How do I put it?  I can only do my best to put up the best performance as I can.   
 Q.  At the end of the second set, there was a very long game, many rallies.  What motivated you to break in that game, to consolidate your win today?  
WANG XIYU: Of course I want to win.  With so many deuces, I was under a lot of pressure.  But I wanted to do my best without thinking too much.   
At that point I was only focused on the key points, without losing my nerves on those key points.  I was really nervous at that point.   
 Q.  In the first set you were up 5-2, you were serving for the set, but didn't make it.  You eventually won the first set.  How did you adjust your mindset when you failed serving for the set?  What were some of the changes in your mind?  
WANG XIYU: Of course I called for my coach and consulted with my coach.  The coach told me several things to keep in mind.  Well, we stuck with our plan.  With that direction in mind, I was able to keep playing, to keep that mentality going, the momentum going.   
 Q.  Today is a traditional mid autumn festival.  Do you have your team members and parents here?  
WANG XIYU: My mother is here.  My father just got home this morning.  Of course, I have my trainers here, and also another sister with us.   
 Q.  After the match today, any plans to celebrate the victory and the mid autumn festival?  
WANG XIYU: Of course, eating the moon cakes (smiling).  But you can't really relax during an event because you have to keep yourself pumped up for the matches.  Well, after this event, I'll celebrate.   
 Q.  Talking about your coach and team, you have a foreign coach who has coached other players in the past.  You have a very professional team.  Could you share with us what kind of changes your coach has brought to you?  With such a team with you, how would that help you to plan your professional career?  
WANG XIYU: First of all, they help me improve my techniques.  I had many unforced errors.  These unforced errors are getting fewer in these matches.   
Mentality-wise, I am more confident at those key moments.  I was told to do the right thing.  Eventually I can implement those strategies.  I know what to do at those key moments.   
Of course, it will be really helpful for my future career.  I have a really good team so I can improve in all elements.  Of course, physically, I think I have improved a lot compared to last year.   
 Q.  Before you came here, did you set a goal?  Now with three victories under your belt, any changes to your mindset?  
WANG XIYU: Before I came here, I started from the qualification.  My goal was to get into the main draw.  But now I've won my first match in the first round, I have to keep calm.   
Well, I don't feel any changes.  Just do my best.  So more pressure, you have to perform better because you're playing against the top 100 players.  They have more experience.  I have to do my best to beat those players.   
 Q.  While you are making the transition to being a pro, what is the biggest obstacle?  
WANG XIYU: Well, the biggest obstacle, I see many challenges in different aspects.  Well, technically they are more stable or more open, they're wise in their strategies.  Energy-wise, in a third set they can be more stable.  At those key points, they deal with the key points better.  This is something I need to learn to do better.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT