CHICK-FIL-A PEACH BOWL: LSU VS OKLAHOMA
December 26, 2019
Parnell Motley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What you sat down, you had a look on your face the second you sat down.
PARNELL MOTLEY: I'm going in like a boxing match, so many questions, I'm answering them all day. But it's all good.
Q. Where are you from?
PARNELL MOTLEY: Washington, D.C.
Q. Where did you go to high school?
PARNELL MOTLEY: HD Woodson. North D.C.
Q. Is that PG County?
PARNELL MOTLEY: No, it's Ward 7 in D.C. Just inside D.C., we're like five minutes away from the borderline of Maryland.
Q. They've got a lot of weapons?
PARNELL MOTLEY: Yeah.
Q. I'm not looking for a game plan but do you like the matchup? Obviously, as a competitor, once you see a Biletnikoff winner across from --
PARNELL MOTLEY: I'm definitely ready. Over the last years, we've had these type of guys. We'll finally be sharing the medals with these other teams, sharing the Heisman winner, the Biletnikoff, the Joe Moore award. We're kind of sharing it. We were hogging these awards for the past few years so we're sharing it now. I look at this no different from our guys that we see every day. But these great kind of players that they bring in and what they do.
So we're not in the blind right now with what's going on and what they bring. But we kind of went against these players over the years.
Q. You got one right across the way here.
PARNELL MOTLEY: That's what I'm saying. He's over there, Creed Humphrey, man, Joe Moore Award winner last year. I ain't gonna say nothing. I'm going to keep it going.
Q. I'm talking about CeeDee.
PARNELL MOTLEY: CeeDee is a Biletnikoff winner supposedly. But shoot, that's how the game goes, man. But I still think there's no better receiver. You look at the film. You see anyone breaking tackles, six people in one play, you show me right now if he's not supposed to be a Biletnikoff winner.
Man, he's my Biletnikoff winner over there. He does a great job of prepping me. I do a great job of prepping him. We're more than willing and ready for these guys and what they bring and what they're going to do.
We've got to trust our scheme and go with that.
Q. What's made this team so successful that you keep getting back here. It's crazy to think three years in a row.
PARNELL MOTLEY: It's crazy, man, five Big 12 championships, man. We're well coached, man. That's all it is, being coachable. Once you're coachable, that's the type of player you are and what you can do with the team.
Once you're coachable, you can succeed to so many levels and do so many things and not just bank on doing your job. We're coachable. We take one game at a time. We take no team for granted and try to do our job in the maximum effort.
That's what we do, being coachable and doing our job, only our job, kept it going throughout the season. We had the loss against Kansas State, but we kept fighting and look where we are now.
Q. Do you still get excited about this stuff? I'm not talking about the playoff game, but the week, the festivities and stuff. Do you still get excited?
PARNELL MOTLEY: Definitely. It's a life experience, in these major cities. I've been to New Orleans, the Sugar Bowl, I've been to Pasadena, what's that bowl called? The Rose Bowl. Last year, in Miami, the Orange Bowl. Now I'm in the freakin' Peach Bowl in Atlanta. All these big games, playing in the college games. Playing in these bowls. I played the majority of the bowls. That's a great accomplishment for me, even though I didn't win some of the bowls. Still searching for one now.
Yeah, man, it's crazy all the bowls I've been in, how it played out. It's still inspirational with the things I've seen and went through and just want to go for more and go back where it started in Louisiana. That's the Sugar Bowl.
Q. What about people kind of sleeping on your team. Do you like the under the radar approach?
PARNELL MOTLEY: I like it. We got nothing to lose. We put our back against the wall. We've got to play with maximum effort. We're going to sit in our corner and not think about anything, focus on us. Let the media take care of them teams and have takes on them.
We don't want to be in the media anyway. We want to keep focused on us and let the doubters doubt.
Q. What do you see in Burrow?
PARNELL MOTLEY: He's a great, confident quarterback that makes great precision. Great decisions and just believes in what he does and have a great offensive scheme that works out for him. He never gives up. Even when the play is over, he scrambles and finds other routes. He does a great job and really respect him in the things he does in extending plays and puts his team in position to face a National Championship.
Q. Talk about his mobility. Obviously, he's not Michael Vick, fastest thing on the planet, but outside of maintaining your responsibility on the outside, how do you all make sure that he doesn't get a chunk of yards with his legs?
PARNELL MOTLEY: Man, we've just got to make sure our D-line is active, scraping to the ball. I know when we do the stunts we do and just try to force into one of our guys with our stunts. But our stunts can be difficult, how we run our stunts.
Just got to keep doing our job, man, and make sure he don't get too much out of control. The moment he step out of the pocket, we've got to get a scramble drill and find our match because we know they love that. They love that. That's the second play. We got to do our job and focus on a great quarterback like him and not getting too loose.
Q. Outside of the seriousness of Saturday at 4:00, you get to spend some time in Atlanta. What's been your favorite moment?
PARNELL MOTLEY: I think my favorite moment is seeing a great city, seeing a great city in Atlanta, seeing events, especially spending time with the other teams on the Family Feud, man, kind of some good times. Just being one collective football team having fun, just living in 'the moment at the time. And laying the stuff -- laid it on the line, worry about the game. Just having fun at the time.
It's great for the teams, what we bring, the events they did this week. At some point in time, it's going to get serious.
Q. I've got to ask you something, after talking and interviewing the LSU guys, one of their top receivers wasn't overly complementary, said tight hips?
PARNELL MOTLEY: Ooh.
Q. Yeah, they're not real physical.
PARNELL MOTLEY: Oh, my goodness.
Q. Wondered your reaction?
PARNELL MOTLEY: That's crazy. Tight hips and physical? Watch the film, watch every play and what I do. It's all good. We're going to sit in our corner. Our coach told us not to talk trash and be complimentary. That's what I do, be complimentary. They do a great job, great receivers, they have great hands and great speed. I'll leave it there.
Q. So you're not going to respond to that?
PARNELL MOTLEY: It's crazy.
Q. Linebacker Queen, you heard what he said?
PARNELL MOTLEY: What did he say?
Q. He said OU's offensive line is not great, the running game is not great, they're not great and we expect to dominate.
PARNELL MOTLEY: I know they won a Joe Moore, but for a team that gave up the most sacks. I need to stop talking, man. It's crazy. I'm not going to do it.
It's crazy. I've seen on film these guys get to the ball. They do a great job of -- I haven't seen their defense much, just seen them on TV. They do a great job of helping the offense. We know their defense don't keep as much as their offense like they're supposed to, but they do a great job in making up for the plays in the turnovers they do. Shout out to the team. We'll see them Saturday.
Q. Finally, what do you have to do and your defense in a game against these guys who are really, really good?
PARNELL MOTLEY: What I have to do, I have to do what I keep banging on throughout the year. Focus on me, focus on my tight hips and focus on being physical. Doing those things just makes a great player out of me. What comes off there is my play making ability. It's going to carry over to putting the team in a great position.
I feel like when I make plays, the team feeds off me and we all make plays after that. Just look at the tape. Iowa State, all these games, Oklahoma State, we blew these teams out of the water when our defense blatantly picked up on that for some ironic reason.
Man, I can't wait to get to it. We just got to focus on us and do our job, only our job, and cut it loose.
Q. Go get 'em.
PARNELL MOTLEY: Yes, sir.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT