NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v BLACKHAWKS
May 29, 2014
Marian Gaborik
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   (No microphone.)
MARIAN GABORIK:   Yeah, I mean, you want to close it out.   Of course, we wanted to do that last night.   It didn't work out.   Coming back to our building, you know, everybody is of course excited for the game.   Just got to play our game. 
We're talking about we have to fix quite a few stuff from last night and just go from there. 

Q.   Is one of the things you have to fix the Kane, Saad, Shaw line?
MARIAN GABORIK:   Yeah, I think they played very good game.   I think for the fans, it was unbelievable to watch.   But for us it wasn't the type of game we want to play, you know, trade chances, trade odd‑man rushes.   We don't want to play that way. 
We want to make sure we stay tight on those guys, not give them a lot of speed through neutral zone, just not give them time and space. 

Q.   Is it hard to do that when you were successful doing it in the second period? 
MARIAN GABORIK:   I mean, with that type of team, we don't want to do that because usually they would come on top of us.   They're such a great talent, offensive power.   Even so we scored some goals that way, that's not our game to play. 

Q.   The first two series so much seemed to change when you were able to stave off elimination the first chance.   Do you feel any added pressure to take care of business coming home? 
MARIAN GABORIK:   Well, I mean, I wouldn't say there's a whole lot of pressure.   Everybody feels some sort of a pressure coming into any game to perform.   Of course, tomorrow is the biggest game of the season for us.   We're going to make sure and we will approach it that way. 
Everybody will be ready to play.   You know, hopefully we can have a good start like we did Game4. 

Q.   How do you maintain feeling good or having the energy when you're at the end of a third series like this? 
MARIAN GABORIK:   I think we going to have a lot of energy.   It's just to approach that game, you know, if we win we can be in Stanley Cup Final.   That itself should give you plenty of energy. 
Today is a day to recover and to look at some of the things and fix some of the things we didn't do well last night and just go from there. 

Q.   I know you have to stay in the now, but can you appreciate the excellence of last night's game?
MARIAN GABORIK:   Yeah, like I said, it was unbelievable game for fans to watch, especially overtime when there was maybe, I don't know, under 10 minutes of no stoppage.   The pace was very good. 
For you guys, for all the fans, it must have been a very good experience. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT