NHL ALL-STAR GAME
January 29, 2012
Marian Gaborik
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Marian, this game was supposed to be all about Swedish guys and Alfredsson and so on.   It ends up being all about Slovak guys.   How satisfying is that?   
MARIAN GABORIK:   I think it was about Swedish guys, you could hear it out there.   I think, you know, there are more Swedish guys than Slovak guys.   
But, overall, I think we had a lot of fun.   I'm glad I could play along with Marian and Pavel Datsyuk, and I was glad that he picked me in the draft.   He got me sweating there a little bit at the draft, picking me late.  
But it was a fun event.   And I had a lot of fun.   
   
 Q.   Why do you think it's so easy to score on Henrik Lundqvist?  
MARIAN GABORIK:   It's not easy.   I was just fortunate to be lucky against him.   But I think he's one of the best, if not the best, goalie in the league, but I am glad I could get a couple of goals against him.  
   
 Q.   What was that goal celebration after your first one?  
MARIAN GABORIK:   I was thinking about before the game if I score on Henrik, I wouldn't do it any other way, but I wanted to do it against Henrik to get a celebration there.   So I don't think he was too happy about that.  
   
 Q.   Was the thought to get into his mind early, I think you were tugging at him behind the net earlier in the game?  
MARIAN GABORIK:   I was trying to get into his mind over the whole weekend.   And I think it was a pretty good challenge against him, and worked a little better for me.  
   
 Q.   What was it like to play on the line with Datsyuk and Hossa?   Looked pretty natural.   
MARIAN GABORIK:   Marian, we played together on the international level.   But with Pavel, he's one of the best.   You can just see pure talent, and he's got all it all and just to be playing also with all the other guys was a lot of fun.  
   
 Q.   Do you think Torts will be okay with your celebration?  
MARIAN GABORIK:   He was just jealous we won the game.  
   
 Q.   Will the Twitter war with Lundqvist continue after this weekend?  
MARIAN GABORIK:   I don't think so.   I posted up a picture hugging him during the skills last night.   So I think we're good.   But it was friendly and it's always‑‑ we always have a good competition, even in practice.  
And it's challenging to score on him.   So as I said, he's one of the best.  
   
 Q.   In regards to the Twitter war, was there any like prize outcome for the winner or loser that they'd have to do?  
MARIAN GABORIK:   We haven't talked about it.   So, no.  
   
 Q.   Do you think you did that celebration as well as Anisimov did?  
MARIAN GABORIK:   No, way.   Did you see him doing that?   No.   It was‑‑ I just wanted to it if I would score on Henrik.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT