DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 1, 2014
Rohan Bopanna
Aisam-Ul-Haq Qureshi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







QURESHI‑BOPANNA/Nestor‑Zimonjic
  6‑4, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   2011 Paris Masters and now.   Last time you won was Paris together? 
ROHAN BOPANNA:   Yes.   Definitely long time ago, but, you know, happy to be back in the winning ways and winning a title.   We got back this year, you know, hoping to continue the streak and doing well.
We start off well in Sydney.   We lost to Zimonjic and Nestor there in the final and happy to, you know, win this title against them, and, you know, get a little sweet revenge back. 

Q.   What brought you guys back together?
ROHAN BOPANNA:   The love for all the Indians and Pakistanis back home (laughter).   And plus we were both looking for ‑‑I mean, both, end of the year we were looking for partners to play.   And for luckily for me Aisam was available to play this year, and he was the first and obvious choice for me.

Q.   What was the key to the match and the victory, would you say?
AISAM‑UL‑HAQ QURESHI:   I would say definitely I think we took our chances.   We took it to them, basically.   We played very good finals against them in Sydney, as well.   I thought we were the better team, but they ended up playing really well in the tiebreakers.   But we created more chances but were not able to avail them. 
I think today on the big points, especially the no ad points, I think Rohan returned remarkably well.   He took, if I remember, 80% of the no ad points we won today.   That's a huge key, because all four of us play very aggressively and it's about taking chances.   I think we served really well and very smartly. 
I think, like he said, we had in our mind we had to go all out, because the last time we lost to them, and this time we just have to go out aggressively.   I think we had a very aggressive mindset, and luckily it just paid off.   I'm really happy that it ended up getting a win today.
Q.   I'm sure you get asked this quite often.   Davis Cup, Pakistan.   I mean, how much of you playing on the tour helped in getting in youngsters and that sort of feeling into the national team?   How is the whole perception changing back home?
AISAM‑UL‑HAQ QURESHI:   Unfortunately, back home the perception is changing but in the international community is not.   We still have not been able to play any Davis Cup tie for last 80 years.
It's a very unfortunate thing.   Ever since people have started to know me and know tennis, I have not been able to play any international matches at home. 
I wanted to say something here also, but I didn't get a chance, but to actually humbly request from international community to start having sports activities in Pakistan, as well.   We are 180 million people, and it's a big country.   There are a lot of areas that have not even been hit by terrorism or anything. 
We can easily play Davis Cup ties and other international sports events, but nobody has been willing to give it a shot.   It's very frustrating.   Now again, Davis Cup tie, we are supposed to play Philippines at home, but we are going away again to Philippines, so I don't know how you can promote tennis if there are not any international events going on. 
It's an unfortunate thing.   That's why I love playing here.   At least I get to play in front of some Pakistanis.   Today the crowd was great.   Indians were there, and Pakistanis were there.   It feels like almost like home. 
So hopefully the international community or the media can give exploit a little bit to give Pakistan a chance and host a tie back home, as well. 

Q.   Why do you think this happens?
AISAM‑UL‑HAQ QURESHI:   It's a mindset, man.   They don't want to come and see if conditions are getting better or not. 
I can understand some parts, yeah, next to Afghanistan, but it's a big country.   If I can go and play in Da Lat City in Vietnam, which is ‑‑ people don't even know where it is.   You have to fly to Ho Chi Minh, and then you have to Da Lat City, and then you have to take three hours' bus to play in the city, they can do it in Pakistan also.   Fly to Lahore or Karachi and play in Faisalabad or Multan or Hyderabad or whatever. 
But they are not even willing to take that chance, and they say no straightaway without even coming and seeing the conditions.   I think that's not fair.
For me, I understand Pakistan is a small country, but you've got to give us a chance to try to promote this game in that area as well where people are really loving and very sports loving, especially very tennis loving, as well.   You can see there are so many Pakistanis here today.   So hopefully things will change.

Q.   Have you put it against cricket?
AISAM‑UL‑HAQ QURESHI:   No, I can't compare with cricket.   I understand they are like‑‑
ROHAN BOPANNA:   It's a religion.   (Laughter.)   It's more than a sport.   It's the wrong sport to compare, I think (laughter).
AISAM‑UL‑HAQ QURESHI:   Any sport.   I can't compare myself with cricketers or cricket.   That's a different thing.   I'm sure being Indian, you begin to understand, so you can't even compare that. 

Q.   Does this make up for the disappointment with missing out on football World Cup tickets yesterday?
ROHAN BOPANNA:   Yeah, definitely (laughter).   I mean, I would have loved to have both, but at least at the FIFA World Cup I do get a chance again in March to apply online, so let's try, try my luck. 
As they say, I thought I'd have some beginner's luck but clearly didn't have.   So let me keep trying and you never know.

Q.   You spoke yesterday about coming close and not really being able to pull through in key matches.   Today it didn't even come close.   Can you just talk about making that little transition from, you know, semis, finals, and coming through again?
ROHAN BOPANNA:   I think it is, you know, the belief in us if you keep motivating each other and, you know, keep telling each other on court that we are a much better team than what we actually are. 
You know, you see our first and second round we were playing a little tentative, and we started in the semis and, you know, we started playing more aggressive.   That's the game styles we play.
As long as we keep that up, I think, you know, we are a bit dangerous team out there for anybody.   I think that's what help us in these two matches here. 

Q.   How would you say you complement each other?   I mean, it's a great partnership.   How do you complement each other?
ROHAN BOPANNA:   I mean, it's just aggressive styles, I think.   You know, when we serve big like this, when you have two guys really serving big, it puts pressure on the other team returning.   And the way we strike the ball, also. 
So I think even though we have a little different style of play, we both play really aggressive.   So I think, you know, in a way it does complement each other and, you know, the fact that he keeps motivating even if I hit a bad shot, I miss it, or I keep doing the same thing, it's just working as a team.
I mean, we have seen in the past, especially the Bryans, if you see them and their chips are down, but they are always communicating, talking, and making sure they find a way from the hole they are in.
So I think those are the few aspects we take from, you know, watching all these big teams and learn from that.   Now we have Scott Davidoff traveling with us.   He's been on the tour for many years and has a lot of experience.   I think he's brought in so much more to our game, as well. 

Q.   Speaking of big events in Brazil, how relieved are you that the Indian Olympic Committee have been, the ban has been limited by the IOC?   So, you know, the door to Rio in 2016 isn't shut for you and other Indian players like yourself?
ROHAN BOPANNA:   I think it's a great thing.   You know, for any athlete representing the country, it's probably the biggest thing to represent the flag, and, you know, be at the opening or closing ceremony, walking, you know, with the flag. 
So I'm glad that, you know, it's all clear right now and every athlete can, you know, represent the flag in the Olympics, Commonwealth Games, and everything.

Q.   Where is your training based basically on‑ and off‑season?
ROHAN BOPANNA:   Normally on the flight, actually (laughter).   You know, we travel 30 weeks a year.   I mean, it's pretty much every single week.   There is no really training base. 
We are nonstop.   Our ATP calendar this year started December 30, and the O2 finishes 16th of November.   So it's a whole season.   I mean, even though ‑‑and December is the only time we try to spend some time with family and friends, so, again, it's definitely on the road.

Q.   Can you talk a little about your friendship? 
(Players hugging and laughter.) 

Q.   You parted ways in November.   Sorry to go back to that.   But it couldn't have been easy, you know, going separate ways and then coming back again.   You all handled the situation with amazing grace.   Can you talk a little about that?
AISAM‑UL‑HAQ QURESHI:   The friendship has always been there.   It had nothing to do with friendship.   It's not like I started hating him and when I was not playing him I was not supporting him and not cheering for him. 
It was a professional decision.   He wanted to play with either Leander or Mahesh during the Olympic year, and I respected that.   Unfortunately I don't have any Pakistani to rely on to play Olympics.   He had that opportunity, and unfortunately things didn't go well for them in the Olympics, but he made that decision and I had to respect it. 
The only reason I didn't play with him in 2013 was I felt like 2012 with Jules went really well.   It would have not have been fair to him for me to just stop playing with them.   So that's why I gave another year and I played with him. 
But friendship is still there.   We still stayed in touch all the time.   He was coming to watch my matches; I was going to watch his matches.   It was still there. 
In a way it helped, also, because I knew how he was growing as a player also on his own.   I think he could realize also I was working hard and preparing well, as well.   That's why we decided to play again with each other. 
The transition again has been easy.   Everybody were expecting us to do well straightaway.   And I thought we were playing really well.   We just lost close matches.   Obviously winning this title obviously is going to help us.   It's my first 500 title in my career, so I'm really excited about that, and hopefully can have my first Grand Slam also hopefully this year with this guy right next to me.   So let's see.

Q.   Bhupathi, the Premier League, your thoughts on that?
ROHAN BOPANNA:   (Crossing fingers.) (Laughter.)   There is no other thought.
Q.   About the concept. 
ROHAN BOPANNA:   If I could, I would go there and sell myself.   But there's nothing to it.   I mean, you go there.   Your name is in the draft.   If you get picked, you get picked. 

Q.   On the League. 
ROHAN BOPANNA:   On the League, of course, I mean, I think it's really fabulous to have a team event like this, to have all the top athletes come together.   And like we were talking the other day, it would be a great experience to be a part of, you know, doesn't matter who, could be Djokovic, Sampras, Serena, all in one team. 
I mean, this never happens.   You get to spend time with these top athletes or, you know, get some experiences from them.   So if I'm in one of the teams, if I get picked, it's going to be a hell of an experience and I think it's great for tennis.
You know, because tennis is such an individual sport, it also brings camaraderie to all the players, as well.   I think it makes it a much more healthier option, as well, for all the players, so I think it's great Mahesh managed to start it. 

Q.   Everybody is like its' this brand new concept and never seen before, but we have had World Team Tennis in the U.S. for years that a lot of players play.   What makes this more innovative or is it just better PR?
AISAM‑UL‑HAQ QURESHI:   For me it's all global.   Team Tennis is just in States.   You're bringing so many aspects of the game, getting involved especially the Asian market where you don't get to see the top stars very often. 
For me, as a Pakistani, obviously for me it's going to be an honor and privilege to be a part of any team.   I never even imagined to be on the same side if I get picked for Rafa, Roger, Sampras, Chang, whoever. I just saw these guys on tennis. 
So like Rohan said, it's going to be a great experience for us in tennis in general.   I think it's a great concept, and I wish Mahesh all the very best and I hope it keeps growing.   It's going to help a lot of tennis players, as well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT