ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 21, 2014
Jin Jeong
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Welcome back to the Perth International.  
JIN JEONG:   Thank you.   
THE MODERATOR:   It's great to have you back here as the defending champion.   Is that a nice feeling for you, too?   
JIN JEONG:   Yeah, definitely great to be back.   Always enjoy this place.   A little bit pressure see myself on walls and posters, but it's good experience.   
   
 Q.   This is your first time defending a professional tournament.   You see yourself up in the posters and things like that.   Are you trying to block it all out and play as if it's any other tournament?  
JIN JEONG:   Yeah, that's what I'm trying to do at the moment, but everyone I go past say same thing, Defending champion.   
But, yeah, I guess that's my challenge for this week.   It's part of not thinking about other stuff other than like my goal, my game.   
Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Does this come at a good time for you, to come back to a tournament with good memories?   
JIN JEONG:   Yeah, definitely.   I really love this place.   Golf course suits me.   I just enjoy being in Perth playing on this course.  
It's great to be back.  
   
 Q.   How has your life changed since you won last year?   
JIN JEONG:   Because of win I play European Tour full time, which is great.   Travel a lot all over Europe.  
I haven't been playing great last four or five months.   Had a great start.   So I am learning all new experiences this year and enjoying being on tour.  
   
 Q.   What are some of the things you've learned being on tour?   
JIN JEONG:   Um, just how to manage myself a little bit better and how to prepare tournament.   We see all different courses, so every week is different country, different course, different style of course, and different type of grass.  
I need to learn how to adapt and play well those new conditions.   It's been really good experience just learning curve I guess.  
   
 Q.   Do you change your mindset coming here knowing you can win here?   You said you haven't been hitting it well.   
JIN JEONG:   Yeah, makes me feel a little bit better.   When I got to the first tee yesterday good memory comes in my head.   I feel fresh again.  
I was hitting pretty good all day yesterday and today, so, yeah, I think it's helping me.   
   
 Q.   Has it changed your leadup?   Doing more media than you would've done last year?  
JIN JEONG:   I haven't done this press conference last year.   Just couple more interviews, but that's it really.   
As I said, all people when I walk past they shook my hand and, Hey, defending champion.  
That's the challenge that I have to take this week.   
   
 Q.   How are you going to handle that challenge?   
JIN JEONG:   Sleeping pretty well, so, so far so good.  
   
 Q.   What do you think your chances are of going back to back?  
JIN JEONG:   It's a very tough to say because a lot of good players here, all the top players from Europe.   And Australian players really good players out there as well.  
So I just need to do my best, and hopefully that's good enough.   
   
 Q.   Going back to the European Tour, what's it like when you're missing a lot of putts?   Is it a really tough time?   
JIN JEONG:   Yeah, wasn't really hitting well until April, May, and then I had a few changes.   Change my coach in June, so changing a few things in my swing.  
That's taking time to get used to it and understand properly.   I think finally I'm understanding it better, so I started hitting better, getting more comfortable.   
But it's only been a couple weeks, so it just takes some time for me to get used to new stuff and experience being on tour.  
I'm expecting soon enough I get used to it and play better hopefully this week.   
   
 Q.   Do you get homesick at all?  
JIN JEONG:   A little bit.   I travel quite a lot last year, for like two or three months, but this year I've been traveling pretty much all year.   So three, four weeks in a row it's okay, but anything longer than that makes me like, I want to go home.  
   
 Q.   Where is home for you?  
JIN JEONG:   I still live in Melbourne.   
   
 Q.   And this year, for example, how many weeks or months do you think you spent in Melbourne?  
JIN JEONG:   Not much really.   January, February I went away for six weeks; came back; then went away for 14 weeks; came back; then seven weeks and came back.   
So I don't know how many weeks that I spent.   
   
 Q.   One question from me:   Obviously you played on the PGA Tour of Australasia quite a bit before you went to Europe.   Is it nice and comfortable to come back and see all the boys you used to play with?   
JIN JEONG:   Yeah, definitely, because I know all the players out here, a lot of friends out here.   So I feel a lot more comfortable playing in Australia.   
I was growing up playing courses like here, so, yeah, that makes me feel more comfortable as well.   
It's good to play PGA Australasian tour again.  
   
 Q.   Do you think that comfort will transfer onto the course and your results this week?  
JIN JEONG:   Yeah, that's what I'm expecting now.   It would be great if I can have some turning point this week.  
   
 Q.   Financially, have you had to rely heavily on last year's win to get through the European season?  
JIN JEONG:   I guess a little bit.   I had a good start beginning of this season, so, yeah, haven't troubled financially yet.  
   
 Q.   Has that been good then, having that stability?   
JIN JEONG:   Yeah, been really good.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT