ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 20, 2013
Jin Jeong
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  OLIVIA McMILLAN:   Welcome to the media centre.   Fantastic effort, congratulations on the win.   Can you describe to us how you're feeling?   
JIN JEONG:   I don't know what I'm feeling right now.   Yeah, just feels great.   Haven't hold a trophy for a long time but it's a good one to hold I guess.   
A bit tired after such a tough week but yeah, just proud of myself.   Yeah, it feels great.  
OLIVIA McMILLAN:   The win comes with a lot of benefits, you have status on The European Tour and you're into the HSBC Champions in a couple of weeks, obviously status here in Australia, as well.   Is it the start of something big for your career?   
JIN JEONG:   I was going to go to the Q‑School in Europe but now I don't have to do that.   And I knew if I win this, I would have status on The European Tour for two years, so I was working really hard to play well this week.   I knew this course pretty well from last year.   So, yeah, I think all the hard work, pretty happy about it.   
   
 Q.   Could you just take us through a about the of the journey you've been on?   You talked to us the other day about moving out to Australia on your own.   Do you think that was important in being where you are now?   
JIN JEONG:   Yeah, yeah, definitely.   I met great coaches here which I wouldn't if I was staying in Korea.   Playing Australian events definitely helped me to better play, and of course the PGA Australia, playing the different tours helped me to be a better player.   It was a good decision I think.   
   
 Q.   What about being a top amateur and you get talked up about being a future superstar, how hard is it becoming a professional after that?  
JIN JEONG:   It was really tough to be honest.   I was struggling quite a bit earlier when I was turning pro.   But, yeah, I've changed a few things and always takes time.   I was pretty confident about my game all this year, but I haven't done any like great results such as this.   But yeah, it's great to see something like this comes up now.   
   
 Q.   What were your thoughts when you double‑bogeyed on the first tee?  
JIN JEONG:   A little bit disappointing but still, as I said this course is pretty tough, so six can be on your scorecard pretty easily.   Just tried to calm myself down and focus on what I can do from there.   And yeah, I think I did a pretty good job after that.   
   
 Q.   You struggled on the first, one of the better‑scoring holes for most of the players, why do you think you struggled?  
JIN JEONG:   I don't know, maybe I'm thinking too much about it.   I don't know, the hole is easy, but you could make bogey or double‑bogey easily, as well.   A couple of times, a little unlucky but today I thought I hit a good putt and just didn't go in a few times.  
   
 Q.   And the 12th today?  
JIN JEONG:   Yeah, that was very big.   Didn't hit a very good shot off the tee but ended up quite nicely‑‑ it was pretty quick downhill from there.   Had a lob‑wedge in my hand.   It landed a little further than I tried, but came out with a little more spin on it, as well.   Hit it to a great nine.   I thought it's got to be in, and it went in.   
   
 Q.   Whereabouts in your round, is there a time where you thought you're in with a really big chance?   
JIN JEONG:   After the bogey, I birdied 4 and 5.   It was a good come back after the first mistake.   And then I didn't birdie some of the easy holes like 7 and 9 and 10.   But on 11, yeah, it was a really big putt for me.   I thought this could give me some momentum.   But it also was pretty tough out there, because the wind was gusting.   
So I didn't think the winning score was going to be that low, so just being patient myself, and putting the was the key all week.   
   
 Q.   And what about your nerves at the 18th and the playoff hole, you seemed pretty calm out there.   You must have been feeling it a bit.   
JIN JEONG:   No, I wasn't calm.   I was nervous‑‑ probably after 15th, I started nerves quite a bit, 16, 17.   I hit a great par save there.   And 18, hit really good tee shot and second shot, but the putt was really, really tough.   I put it in the bunker easily.   So just the speed was the key for the putt.   
The tap‑in putt, I could miss that one‑‑ I was like, oh.   But yeah, I was nervous, but also I was excited and I really enjoyed it, as well.  
   
 Q.   With the two‑year exemption now for The European Tour, can you just talk us through how that will change your life?   
JIN JEONG:   Yeah, I was waiting for something like that for a long time, really, really want to be on the main tour, European Tour.   The last few years I played some mini‑tours in the States.   Played some Challenge Tour earlier this year.   Definitely helps be a better player, but playing on The European Tour with big‑name players will be a lot better and a lot more fun.   
   
 Q.   Will you move over there now?   Is that your plan?   Will you move house?   
JIN JEONG:   Maybe I will have a base there but I'll still live in Melbourne, maybe fly back and forth.   To be honest I don't really know yet.   
   
 Q.   And you've been in Australia for seven years now or so; would you ever consider representing Australia?   
JIN JEONG:   That's a very tough question, but it's something I think about it.   Yeah, I'm not quite sure yet.   
   
 Q.   Would there be pressure from your family to stick with Korea?  
JIN JEONG:   Koreans don't really like changing your nationality.   Yeah, I'm not really sure on that one.  
   
 Q.   When would you have been due to head to Qualifying School?   
JIN JEONG:   I played first stage a couple weeks ago, got through.   And yeah, I was going to go back home for like three days and then go to Spain.   
   
 Q.   So are you going to head home now and have some time with the family?   
JIN JEONG:   Yeah, after this I'm going to go to Melbourne for a while.   
   
 Q.   Did you have anyone here at all this week?   
JIN JEONG:   A few friends up here and my girlfriend flew over, as well.   They were a great support.   
OLIVIA McMILLAN:   Congratulations again and thank you for joining us.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT