ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 19, 2013
Jin Jeong
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Your thoughts on day three, because you've really got it going and finished in style there?
JIN JEONG:   The last hole was pretty good.   Good birdie.   It's a tough hole.   I'll take four all day there. 
I thought it was pretty tough to be honest.   It was windy, cold, raining on and off.   But scoring looks better than I thought it would be.   So, yeah, everyone found a way to play this course. 

Q.   Slightly baffling, isn't it, but presumably there's just more opportunities on the greens today, as well. 
JIN JEONG:   You mean the rain? 

Q.   Given that the weather is bad and everybody is shooting better?
JIN JEONG:   Yeah, maybe that helps or soften up a little bit the greens.     But I thought it was still pretty tough out there. 

Q.   Proud of yourself, the way you're hanging in this week? 
JIN JEONG:   Yeah, I'm pretty proud of myself and seeing my name on the leaderboards.   Putting been working really well. 

Q.   How has your experience on The Challenge Tour helped, the fact that you've actually been up there contending on a number of tournaments? 
JIN JEONG:   Yeah, a couple of tournaments I was up there, didn't play very well Sunday one of them, but I learned quite a bit from there.   So it was a good experience and yeah, hopefully that helps for tomorrow.

Q.   Probably hard to quantify, but what do you learn? 
JIN JEONG:   From the tournament?   Well, it's a simple thing, but I was a bit rushed, like tried to hurry everything and wasn't finding my rhythm, all the basic stuff. 
So, yeah, probably try to slow down tomorrow and just focus on what I'm doing.   Yeah, should be fine. 

Q.   Take your time, don't really look at leaderboards or the situation, just play your own game, appreciate things? 
JIN JEONG:   Pretty much.   I'm okay to like‑‑ looking at leaderboard and stuff, but as long as if I do my job correct way.   So.

Q.   Excited? 
JIN JEONG:   Yeah, very.   Really having fun, as well. 

Q.   Are you getting good support, as well, being in what is your home country?
JIN JEONG:   Yeah, it was a few people following out there, and especially after the last hole, I holed putts and hearing ding dong, ding dong, it's good. 

Q.   You enjoy that? 
JIN JEONG:   Yeah, it's fun.   I like it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT