ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 17, 2013
Jin Jeong
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How good is 4‑under par around here this morning? 
JIN JEONG:   The course is playing pretty tough, greens are pretty firm.   So I wasn't expecting to play that well to be honest but it was really good.

Q.   Why weren't you expecting it?
JIN JEONG:   Well, I thought the course was quite tough.   And I wasn't hitting that good the last couple days, but tried to focus what I'm doing.   The weather was perfect today, as well, so that helped.   And a couple of hole‑outs, 18 I hit 6‑iron from 167 and that went in, and the last hole, bunker shot in, that definitely helped. 

Q.   It helps when you start the way you did, as well, with those couple of birdies back‑to‑back?
JIN JEONG:   Yeah, started pretty well, too.   Hit some good shots and putts, and he I can't, it's all good.

Q.   You've been out flying; how was that experience?
JIN JEONG:   Oh, you mean yesterday?   Yeah, it was pretty fun.   Scary a little bit but I really enjoyed it.   Played pretty well after that so might put that in my routine.

Q.   This was for European Tour Weekly and they said you had a lot of fun and didn't seem too scared?
JIN JEONG:   I tried to hold myself.   It was pretty scary.

Q.   Is that something you want to do aside from golf, actually take flying lessons and things? 
JIN JEONG:   Yeah, it was really fun.   If I have another opportunity, I will definitely go for it. 

Q.   In terms of this tournament, now that you're flying up the top of that board, excuse the pun, does that mean that you're looking to a nice future somewhere down the line?   I know it's only the first day. 
JIN JEONG:   Yeah, it's only the first day and still three rounds to go and plenty of great players out here, so you never know what's going to happen.   Just got to do what I'm doing and just keep hitting good shots and hopefully that's good enough. 

Q.   You've enjoyed your year on The Challenge Tour and playing events around Europe, haven't you? 
JIN JEONG:   Yeah, definitely I've learned a lot again, and seeing good players out there, yeah, it was pretty fun. 

Q.   Tell us about the hole‑outs? 
JIN JEONG:   18th hole, ninth hole for me.   I hit 6‑iron from 167.   Didn't think it was going to be in but hit a pretty good shot in.   Yeah, I thought it would be another, I don't know, three or five feet, and people started clapping and yelling.   Yeah, quite happy. 

Q.   Overall, 4‑under, good start?
JIN JEONG:   Yeah, for sure.   I hit some really good shots and really good putts.   Made a few mistakes but yeah, overall, it was really good.   Especially the last hole, as well.   Hit a pretty good shot the second shot, but it went over the green in the bunker.   But hit a really good shot from the bunker and, yeah, it went in again.   So yeah, definitely luck with it helped.   Putting was really good, so quite happy.

Q.   A few players have found it difficult putting today, so it wasn't a problem with you? 
JIN JEONG:   Speed was an issue for me.   Greens were pretty quick and firm, as well.   So it wasn't easy to putt well.   But yes, somehow it went in. 

Q.   How familiar are you with the course here?
JIN JEONG:   I played a few times here before.   I played the Australian amateur when it was here.   Finished second that week of stroke play.   So I'm quite happy with this course and it suits my game pretty well.   Yeah, really enjoying playing this course.

Q.   Tell us about your background golfing‑wise. 
JIN JEONG:   Like where I play and stuff?   I moved to Melbourne from South Korea about seven years ago, and I turned pro two years ago.   I play the Australian tour, OneAsia Tour and I played The Challenge Tour this year with conditional status.   Played six events on The Challenge Tour, and looking forward to playing Q‑School at the end of the year in Europe.

Q.   And you had a bit of success as an amateur, I believe? 
JIN JEONG:   Yeah, I had some good results as an amateur.   I won the British Amateur and played the British Open and U.S. Masters as an amateur.   I got up to No. 1 ranked in the world as an amateur.   Yeah, really enjoyable.

Q.   How hard is it to make that transition from being leading amateur to the pros? 
JIN JEONG:   Tough, still learning.   These guys, especially European Tour players, they are all‑‑ anyone can win any tournament.   So still learning a lot.   But still, if I play well, like today, I can be top of the leaderboard, as well.   So it's just‑‑ yeah, still learning a lot I would say.

Q.   And you mentioned you moved to Australia quite a few years ago.   What were the reasons behind that move?
JIN JEONG:   Just for golf.   Nothing else.   Came here for just a few months practicing and I found practice was much better than Korea and I really liked these golf courses and country.   So I asked my family, can I go there and just train myself.   That's how I decided to move here.

Q.   Are you here alone?
JIN JEONG:   I was here myself for the first three or four years.   My parents are still in Korea.   They just travel back and forth a little bit.   My sister is with me in Melbourne.

Q.   Was that tough those first three or four years when your parents weren't here?
JIN JEONG:   Yeah, I was only 16, so it wasn't easy.   But again, I was just training hard and just keep working, keep practicing.   So it wasn't too bad. 

Q.   So who were you living with as a 16‑year‑old? 
JIN JEONG:   There is a Korean family that lives right next to my golf course.   So I just stayed at their place. 

Q.   Did you know them before you came to Australia?
JIN JEONG:   Not really.   My coach introduced me to them.

Q.   So in a way a bit like a foster family? 
JIN JEONG:   Yeah.

Q.   So what are you now, 23? 
JIN JEONG:   Yeah. 

Q.   So tomorrow, what do you learn from today?   Are you going to attack things differently tomorrow?
JIN JEONG:   Maybe a little bit.   I'm hitting it pretty good, so try to keep everything the same.   But around the greens, I wasn't as good as I thought I would be, so just practice a little bit of those around the green and stuff.   And putting, just try to get the speed right, as well.   Hopefully that's good enough.

Q.   When people think of the life of a professional golfer, they think it's all glitz and glamour, but can you tell us from your perspective, somebody who is still trying to make his way up the ranks, what it's like?
JIN JEONG:   Not for us, we travel a lot alone and suitcase every week.   Yeah, if you're not playing the main tour, it's hard to make good money out of it, as well.   So yeah, just you play well and make some money and go to the next tournament and you spend it all.

Q.   So financially, how do you kind of survive week‑to‑week? 
JIN JEONG:   Yeah, try to earn as much as I can when I'm playing tournaments.   Hopefully that's good enough.   But sometimes if not, my dad helps me a little bit, as well. 

Q.   A few other golfers have second jobs and whatnot?
JIN JEONG:   Yeah, some of them have. 

Q.   But you're hoping to just keep it at the golf?
JIN JEONG:   Yeah.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT