NHL ENTRY DRAFT
June 22, 2002
Eric Nystrom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  How does it feel to be drafted?  Now you have the chance to do what your father did and follow in his footsteps, what's the feeling?

ERIC NYSTROM:   Definitely follow in the footsteps.  He started out in Calgary, so it's nice to go back and see where he started playing his junior hockey.  Then the journey begins now.  The door is only open; it's only if I step through.  So it's going to be interesting to see what happens.

Q.  Awhile back you said that you were intent on going back to Michigan; that still your plan?

ERIC NYSTROM:   Oh, for sure.  Development is so important and you don't want to get rushed into things.  When the opportunity presents itself and the time is right, then maybe it's time to move on, but for now is looks like Michigan is the best bet.

Q.  I would bet that your dad's day in 1980 was his biggest day, how does that rate for you?

ERIC NYSTROM:   This is definitely the big of the day.  Two years ago I would have told you that I would have no idea that I would even get drafted.  To crack the Top-10 is unbelievable, it definitely tops my charts now.  I hope there's more to come.

Q.  Calgary is a team that wants to improve and get better, scoring, how do you think you'll fit in? 

ERIC NYSTROM:   I'd like to contribute anyway I can.  Whether it's scoring role, checking role or whatever I have to do, it's going to be interesting so where I fit in.  It's a good young team that plays with an edge, and I think that I can fit in well there.

Q.  It's an interesting time, obviously for you  -- Josh Lupul is a winner just signed by the Flames and he said his commitment is to Minnesota and going for an NCAA Championship, have you made that commitment to Michigan or are you open to other things?

ERIC NYSTROM:   I think I'm more open to other things.  If the situation happens that college hockey is not challenging me as much, it might be time to step up and move to the next level.  Right now I'm set up for four years, but if things and I can leave early, it's definitely something that I would consider. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT