ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
January 21, 2013
Brian Gregory
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		  BRIAN GREGORY:   Yeah, you know, I thought on Thursday night we did some good things.   Had a tough environment at Duke.   I thought our young guys played with some aggressiveness and some competitiveness, and I thought, again, very similar to maybe the North Carolina State game on the road that Duke had to play well in order to stretch the lead, and they did, and give them credit.   Give Curry credit; give Plumlee credit; those seniors really led them.   We'll just get back to work and we've got to keep improving obviously.   I believe we're a much better team, but in this league you have to play extremely well for 40 minutes to be successful. 

Q.   You've got‑‑ you were in it for almost all the way against Duke, you were in it almost all the way against State, you lose in overtime to Virginia Tech.   Are your players getting frustrated at all, can you sense, because of a lack of something to show for the effort that they're putting in? 
BRIAN GREGORY:   I think, I mean, obviously there's a frustration, and as well there should be, but I think our guys understand where we're at and what we need to do.   I think they understand that four or five possessions a game is the difference in wins and losses in this league, and we've just got to‑‑ we have to mature a little bit and understand that that's how close games are going to be, so that's, what, one or two possessions a half.   And young guys got to learn that. 
They're so accustomed to a possession here and there, who cares, we'll get the ball back.   With maturity, players' games change and grow, and obviously maybe you don't get the tangible evidence that what you're doing is paying off, but that's part of the process that we're under right now.   You don't just do the work hard and everything works out perfect.   You've got to keep fighting. 
I think our guys have done a pretty good job of that.   I thought our resiliency showed on Thursday, and I think it will again this Wednesday night. 

Q.   Tell me about Chris and what do you see for him going forward?
BRIAN GREGORY:   With Chris Bolden? 

Q.   Right. 
BRIAN GREGORY:   Yeah, I'm obviously pleased with his first start, but again, part of the maturity process is I (inaudible) you're playing against this team or that team.   It has to be an everyday thing.   That aggressive (inaudible).   His minutes showed that because he wasn't doing that every day in practice, and I think we're (inaudible). 
So I was pleased with how he performed, and we need him to continue to do that. 

Q.   Do you see the rotation thing similar to how you had it against Duke? 
BRIAN GREGORY:   If you play with a lot of guys (inaudible) guys perform, we went with a little shorter bench in that game.   I don't always see that (inaudible) situation that I thought was best for the team in terms of giving us our best chance to win.   But is Chris going to start on Wednesday night?   Yes, he is going to start on Wednesday night. 

Q.   I know Jason has been injured.   Can you update us on his status, and was there any physical thing with Brandon Reed, or was it just a coaching decision?
BRIAN GREGORY:   It was just a coaching‑‑ with Brandon it was just a coaching decision.   Jason today, we're practicing right now as a matter of fact (inaudible) he's probably still two weeks away from being able to play. 

Q.   Is there anything you can say about the suspensions for your assistants? 
BRIAN GREGORY:   No. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT