MANULIFE LPGA CLASSIC
June 8, 2017
Mi Hyang Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Six birdies, one eagle today; 8-under.  Just had a chance for birdie on the 18th, but you can't complain about a perfect round like today.
MI HYANG LEE: Yes, I hit it so solid today.  Just happy to play with a great players today.  I think I had good start with No. 2 hole and then number third eagle, so I had a lot of confident from that two holes.
So I just keep playing, and then I played good at the par-5s, that's why I can hit the 8-under today.
Q. Last year you tied for second, one shot out of the lead.  Is there something about that course that kind of suits your game?
MI HYANG LEE: Actually, yeah.  Just trying think the good thing one, because I made a double (indiscernible) No. 10, so I want to make just par today, but I did, so I just happy to make the par.
Yeah, just I think great golf course and great condition, but little more softer than last year so getting more longer distance.
But still good green and then everything is good.  So I think it's good match with my golf.
Q. You're 8-under; I think Suzann Petersen right now is 8-under.  Do you think that score will hold given the conditions today?  Anyone else go lower than that you think?  Going to be tough?
MI HYANG LEE: Because wind, because in the morning we don't have any wind front nine so it's more easier.  I think winds, getting more hotter, maybe distance control, yeah.
Q. So your next round will be tomorrow afternoon.  What do you do?  You're tied for the lead right now.  What's the mindset for tomorrow?
MI HYANG LEE: Hopefully can play 8-under again for tomorrow, but just I want to just keep playing.  Then I have three more days, so hopefully getting better.
But it's still high score, so just please hit it solid for tomorrow and then maybe I need talk with my caddie about distance control with the wind.
Q. Tell us about your eagle there on 3.
MI HYANG LEE: Sure.  I hit the driver, a little draw, and then I think 235 front and then pins 8 on, so maybe 243 to the hole.  Then I did draw.  Hit it little maybe five yard short to the front and then bounced up I think maybe four yards past the pin and I made that putt.
Yeah.
Q. Nice.  Was there any throughout the round you had, kind of a shaky par putt, that might have led to a bogey?
MI HYANG LEE: No. 10.  (Laughter.)  Pins left front and then my ball is just over the bunker.  It's distance for the back pin, so maybe 20 yard the long putt.  Then four yards short and I made it, uh-uh.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT