U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 2015
Mi Hyang Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. 2-under for today, 2-under for the tournament, in the Top-10, entering Sunday.  Describe your round today and how that feels to be so close to the top of the leaderboard.MI HYANG LEE: Actually, just I want to get the title of U.S. Women's champion.  But I just want to try the best to do one shot, one time.  I have a lot of good shot today, but I did a little mistake.  So I want to figure out that one, so maybe tomorrow it's much better.  I hope I have a lot of luck, make a lot of birdie.  Just putt, that's it. I don't think about winning the tournament, nothing.  I just I want to play golf tomorrow.Q. Can you take me through your round today and some of the positives you took away, some of the memorable shots that you had that you thought really helped you carry you to the 2-under par today?MI HYANG LEE: Hole No. 12, a downhill par-3, I was a little short, but I made the bogey on that one.  So I think more positive that hole, so I make the birdie hole No. 13.  So I think I kept the 2-under par today.Q. You talked after your round on Thursday that you felt like you were struggling with your putting a little bit.  Have you made any adjustments?  How do you feel like your putting was today overall?MI HYANG LEE: Yesterday, my putt, every putt was short of the hole.  Today I'm trying to just pass the hole.  I made a lot of birdie, I think, I made five birdie here.  I think this golf course is pretty hard.  Make five birdie, that means my putt is much better than yesterday.  So I hope tomorrow is much better.Q. What are the keys for you to navigate through this golf course tomorrow and post another low round and go towards the top of the leaderboard?MI HYANG LEE: I think I need to make the birdie at the par-5 for sure, and then some long par-3, have to make the par-3, then some long par-4, need to make some par.  That's key points, I think. Just not overdo it.  I don't need to make a double bogey, this golf course.  I make just birdie and bogey, that's it.Q. Stay away from trouble and stay away from the high scores?MI HYANG LEE: Before if I miss it, I have to make bogey, just good bogey, I think.Q. Coming into this week I'm sure every player's goals and expectations are to be up near the leaderboard and to win the tournament.  What goals did you set for yourself heading into the final round?  Do you feel like you are on your way to reaching those goals and what were those goals?MI HYANG LEE: My goal in the final round is I want to have fun and the other one to play just my golf.  I'm trying to do my best.  That's it.  I don't want to think to win the tournament.  Actually, I want the title of the U.S. Women's champion.Q. One step at a time, right?MI HYANG LEE: One shot.Q. What do you think about these fans over here, the tournament overall, Lancaster, Pennsylvania.  How does that compare to other U.S. Opens?  What do you think of these fans?MI HYANG LEE: It's amazing.  When I practice on Monday, still a lot of fans coming here.  They clap and just say good luck this weekend, this week.  Then I stay in the housing around here, maybe ten minutes from here.  So they are so nice and their kids are so nice.  They are coming almost every day.  I think that's good for me and thank them for coming out, everyone


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT