JTBC FOUNDERS CUP
March 17, 2016
Mi Hyang Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: All right, everyone.  I'd like to welcome Mi Hyang Lee into the media center after a first round 10-under 62.
MI HYANG LEE: Thank you.
THE MODERATOR: You tied the lowest nine holes in LPGA history in relation to par, Amy Yang birdied every hole in Korea about six months ago.  What were you thinking on that front nine.
MI HYANG LEE: Actually here is more nervous than my front nine.  Just good start the first hole and then I made a good chip on second hole.  So just I thought I had a lot better luck today.  But I didn't think about I can shoot the 9-under today the front nine.  So it was fun, and then the people congratulations to me, so thank you so much.
THE MODERATOR: Did you ever think about 59 out there?  You needed three more.  I know you had a couple that were close early in the Back 9.
MI HYANG LEE: No.  I didn't think the 59.  If I think the 59, maybe I shoot over par the Back 9.  Just kidding.  Okay.  Yes.  Maybe later.  Maybe next time I'm trying to make 59 one day.  Yeah, that's my goal.
THE MODERATOR: I know you really wanted the chip on the last to go in.  How close was it?  Did you think it was going to go in?  It looked like from where I was standing it was going to go in.
MI HYANG LEE: No, I thought a little short and then maybe -- I thought going to be a little more right, but turned left.  So it's fine.  I didn't think it would go in the hole.
THE MODERATOR: And I know your caddy was saying that he's only been with you three weeks.  When did he get on the bag and how did that happen?
MI HYANG LEE: Actually, he's professional golfer in Korea, maybe 2009 and '10.  So just communicate player to player.  Actually, he's my caddy, but he was the player before, so it's good communicate, so I like it.
THE MODERATOR: Okay.  Perfect.  I'd like to open it up for questions.
Q. You obviously weren't able to get as many birdies there on your second nine.  Were you starting to get nervous at all or what were you feeling after you made the turn?
MI HYANG LEE: I didn't nervous, I think, but I think last hole I wasn't nervous because just I wanted to make the par.  Just I wanted to keep the leaderboard.  So I didn't nervous until maybe number 17.  So yeah, I didn't nervous.  I had fun today.
Q. You just shot 10-under, 62, but you got kind of sad back there when you heard Se Ri was retiring.  What were your thoughts on that?
MI HYANG LEE: Yeah, just I'm wondering why she cried over there.  And then I heard she retired after this year, because she's my idol.  I saw her on TV when I was four years old, and then when I was 15 years old I played with her in Korea when I was amateur.  And then she said you look good and just hope see you in the LPGA Tour.  So I'm trying the LPGA Tour, it's just a little sad that she retire after this year and then I will miss her.
Q. Was she the reason you started playing golf and kind of helped you to get where you are do you feel like a little bit?
MI HYANG LEE: Yes, because I didn't think turned professional, but just after played with her, just I'm thinking about turning professional.  So that's maybe turning point after play with her.
THE MODERATOR: Any more questions?






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT