COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 6, 1994
Michael Chang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What was your first reaction seeing that you  will play very early with Pete Sampras?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Well, I think, you know,  early or not, you know you are going to be playing top  players throughout the draw.  If you are not going to  play Pete, you are going to play somewhere where you  are either going to play either Boris, Goran or Andre.  So they are all in the same boat with so many good  players in such a small draw, you know, it is  inevitable.  So it is just the way it is so... I think  it is pretty much expected for all the players.   
 

Q.  Michael, you just met Alberto in Frankfurt.  Was it the easier part to play him again here in  Munich?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I think actually it was  tougher to play him here in Munich than it was in  Frankfurt.  I think that he learned a few things from  Frankfurt, and I think he played better tennis,  overall, in this week year than in Frankfurt.  So today  was a much tougher match than back then.  The score  probably shows that as well so...   
 

Q.  Combination with the surface here?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  This actually is a little bit  faster than Frankfurt.  Both are still very fast, but  here's always -- it has always been very fast here even  since the first year since the inaugural year in 1990  it has always been on the quick side.   
 

Q.  You are the fifth time in Munich.  Have you  any time to see the city?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Still the same.  Same stuff.  I have gotten a pretty good idea of -- I find my way  around the OlympiaHalle.  I can find my way around the  hotel and not a whole lot of chance to go and look  around just because this tournament is such a big  tournament for all the players, you know, you really  don't want to give away anything to anybody.  So you  don't want to -- you want to try to reserve your energy  for your matches.   
 

Q.  Michael, are you happy with your little  Christmas present you received yesterday?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Yeah.  I think -- well, any  Christmas present is better than the chocolate.  I am  hoping that there will be even a better Christmas  present later in the week on Sunday.  That would be  very nice.  This is a good tournament to finish the  year off.  I think from here, you know, go back home  and, you know, rest and celebrate Christmas and rest a  little bit; play a few exhibitions, and then pretty  much get ready for the Australian.   
 

Q.  To get to Sunday you have to be probably the  best player in this tournament?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Yeah, but I have gotten to  the finals here in the last two years before.  So, you  know, I feel like these kind of tournaments here, the  Grand Slam events, and also, you know, in Frankfurt, if  you are going to win, you got to beat the best.  Just  the way it is.  And I think that is part of, you know,  wanting to try to be the best in the world.  You got to  be able to beat everybody.  You just can't beat  players, you know, ranked below you.  You have got to  get there somehow.  So obviously this tournament is  going to be a tough one for all the players because  there are a lot of tough players; all the matches are  very tough.   
 

Q.  Is there a place in Munich where when you  come back here you want to go there, a restaurant?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Actually I like -- I think  actually for each year I probably look forward to  seeing the snow quite a bit.  There has been a couple  of years here in Munich where it has snowed.  For me, I  don't get a chance to see much snow as maybe, you know,  some places like Minnesota where I used to live.  So  that, for me, is very pleasant to see, and obviously it  is not -- I don't think it is going to happen.  It is  getting colder, so, well, it is something that -- maybe  it will snow later in the week, but, you know, I don't  know a whole lot about Munich.  I only know the  tournaments, the clay court tournaments and also this  event here and I know that a lot of the players from  Germany have homes here in Munich, and, you know,  practice against one another.  That is really all I  know; just seeing what I see when I am driving in the  car; just the river going through the city and stuff  like that, so I am not a real cultural person, but, you  know, I think, you know, so I just-- I would leave it  like that.   
 

Q.  Have you been skiing?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Skiing is kind of dangerous  right now because I think as a tennis player if you get  hurt, you are in trouble, so I think any kind of  dangerous sports, you know, skiing, whatever, bungie  (ps) jumping, rock climbing, mountain climbing, I will  leave that 'til after tennis, if I ever want to try it.  But just those kind of sports are just a little bit  dangerous.   
 

Q.  You have tried skiing?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  No.  I have done cross-country skiing once when I was little, but I  don't see myself doing a whole lot of skiing, so, you  know, just because there is a lot of danger involved  and that aspect; tennis is such a short career now; it  is getting shorter and shorter every year, so you want  to make the most of the time that you have, you know,  on the court and travelling.   
 

Q.  Travelling tennis players are always anxious  for getting an injury or things like this?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  It depends on the  personality.  I am a very conservative person.  I know  that maybe, you know, maybe guys like I know like Kelly  Evenden he likes to bungie jump.  I can picture some of  the other players like Muster because he is from  Austria doing a lot of skiing, things like that, but I  prefer more of the tranquil sports, like fishing;  things like that, where I can't really get hurt unless  I catch a fish so big that he swallows me.  Other than  that, I like a little bit more tranquil sports.  Every  now and then I will play golf.  Those are technically a  lot safer than maybe skiing or other sports like that.   
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT