ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 17, 1994
Michael Chang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  How good is he at the moment?  

MICHAEL CHANG: I think Andre -- I'd say maybe  of the field here, probably Andre and Boris are  probably playing the best tennis at the moment.  But it  is something that is going to have to carry on through  day after day, and that is sometimes a difficult thing  to do.  But I think, of the two players, I would say  both those players are probably playing the best out of  the rest of the field.  


Q.  Stefan Edberg was saying earlier that Andre  is playing far more intelligently this year; gotten rid  of the crazy shots.  Do you find him more consistent?  

MICHAEL CHANG: What do you mean "crazy  shots?"  


Q.  I don't know, that is what Stefan said.  

MICHAEL CHANG: I think -- I don't necessarily  think he has changed anything.  I just think that maybe  he has gotten a little bit better at doing some  things.  I think he is a little bit more consistent  now.  I think that he is a little bit fitter, which  helps him to move around the court a little bit better;  that can also tie into his game.  If you are a little  bit overweight, you are not going to be able to move  around as well; obviously not able to get to the ball  and not able to hit it the way you want to hit it.  


Q.  How would you characterize your own game?  

MICHAEL CHANG: I feel pretty good.  I feel  like I am heading in the right direction, and that, for  me, is very important.  And, you know, I will take a  good look at this past year and try to learn from those  things that I can learn from and take it into next year  and try to come up, you know, each year a better  player.  And I feel like I am making progress, and I  feel like as long as I am headed in the right  direction, that is the way I want to go.  


Q.  You sort of put in a real good effort today.  You tried real hard against Andre.  Is it frustrating  to play so hard and still lose?  

MICHAEL CHANG: No, no.  I think that, you  know, a lot of it is -- you know, a lot of times you  are able to learn a lot more from your losses than from  your wins, and regardless -- I know that each time I  step on the court, I am trying my hardest anyway, so I  know some days I am going to be able to come out on  top.  And I am going to have some difficult days where  I might come up a little bit short, but I feel like,  for me, as long as I go and play the game that I want  to play and, you know, go out and try to accomplish  what I want to accomplish and if the guy's a little bit  better than me on that day, then you take your hat off  and you move on.  


Q.  Michael, who has got the best chances to win  the tournament?  

MICHAEL CHANG: Well, I think Boris has got a  pretty good chance, obviously, being 2 and 0.  Andre --  you know, I think that the other group is pretty --  there's a few things that could still happen because  Stefan lost to Pete today; it creates a little bit of  an interesting scenario in that group.  Our group, I  think, you know, depending on how Sergi does today,  obviously if he wins, then that means I get to go home  a little bit earlier, but, you know, I think it is  tough to say.  I think that each day really is a whole  new ballgame.  Some days you just wake up and you don't  quite feel as good and you are not able to go and play  the way you have been playing, and I think particularly  this week for the guys that have to play back-to-back  tough matches, sooner or later it is going to take its  toll; not just because of the two tough matches, but  also because it is the end of the year and naturally  when you approach the end of the year, guys are a  little bit more tired.  And maybe some guys have been  on the Tour for a little bit longer, longer stretches  than some of the other players, and a lot of things can  happen.  So, going to have to take it day by day and  take it from there.  


Q.  Michael, Berasategui has been taking a  beating in these press conferences, but how fair would  it be really to rotate the surface and to give the clay  court guys more of a chance?  

MICHAEL CHANG: Well, I think that as far as  taking a beating in the press room, no offense to you  guys, I think all the players have their fair share.  I  think that this particular situation, given Alberto's  choice of surface, I would say he would have chosen  clay.  But I think that I said earlier this week that I  felt that an indoor surface of this speed suits the  players pretty well.  I mean, if you would take an  average of all the surfaces throughout the year, clay  is really the only time of year where the surface is  slow.  Other than that, you have -- you know, you start  off down in Australia, which is not slow, then you come  in, you play a little bit of indoor tennis, which is  always quick; you play, you go back outdoors, go back  out there, go over to Asia, it is all hard courts over  there, then you play a season for clay, and then grass  court season which is fast, then you come back after  that, you know, play hardcourts again, which is fast,  and after that, you go and you play indoors again.  So,  throughout the year there is not a whole lot of slow  surfaces, so I think that people were saying how our  group was a little bit weaker.  Obviously, it was a  little bit weaker comparatively, but I think if you  were to stick it on clay, our group would definitely be  a lot tougher in a sense.  


Q.  Do you have any specific goals for next year?  

MICHAEL CHANG: That is something I probably  want to think about.  Obviously I want to be able to  constantly improve, and I think if I am able to do that  each day, just improve on something, then everything  else will follow.  I know that I will have more  opportunities to win Grand Slam events.  I know that I  will have the opportunity to beat top players; it will  come more and more.  I think that all ties into what I  want to accomplish as a tennis player to win each Grand  Slam at least once because I feel that is something  that a lot of the players have not been able to  accomplish for quite a long time and, you know,  hopefully No. 1 is somewhere around the corner, but I  think as long as I keep my head focused I will be  trying to improve; I think everything else will follow.  


Q.  Pete said he is not going to play Davis Cup  next year.  Andre said it too, essentially.  Do you  have think thoughts since you are the next in line that  you want to play or do you know yet?  

MICHAEL CHANG: Well --  


Q.  I guess Pete hasn't said for sure.  That is  true, but more or less, he said he is leaning against  it.  

MICHAEL CHANG: Well, I haven't really, you  know, I haven't made any clear-cut decisions one way or  the other.  I had thought about it and maybe there was  only, I think, over the past few years I haven't played  Davis Cup since 1990, so there has always been a couple  of guys a little bit better than me as far as  ranking-wise, and, you know, just have to take it from  there.  I know Tom is here this week scouting a little  bit and seeing how the players are playing; how they  are feeling.  I am pretty sure that he is going to get  a chance to talk to everybody and, you know, it is just  something that we will just have to take Tie by Tie.  


Q.  But for like France first rounds you don't  have any --  

MICHAEL CHANG: I am considering it.  I am  considering it.  But I am not definite either way.  


Q.  Which are your first four tournaments of next  year in 1995?  

MICHAEL CHANG: I don't know actually.  To be  honest with you, I do not know exactly what I am going  to do prior to the Australian.  But I do plan to play  the Australian next year.  It is on my schedule, and  after that, it is a little bit up in the air at the  moment, so when the time comes, you will know.  


Q.  Michael, Andre said that he -- after the  match in the U.S. Open he heard some comments from you  about his weaknesses; he went back and watched the  video --  

MICHAEL CHANG: I was very stupid.  I  shouldn't have -- I pulled a rookie move.  


Q.  Do you think that way?  

MICHAEL CHANG: Well, I am not -- well, in a  sense, I am -- yeah, I mean, I should have known, I  mean, I have done the same thing.  I mean, I have had  instances where I have lost to someone; they have said  something in the paper; I just happen to read the paper  the following day, and next time I play him I go and I  beat him.  So it is something that I have learned.  I  think that Brad Gilbert brought a little bit more  thinking into Andre's game, obviously.  Brad himself is  a total thinking player.  He is not a power player.  He  is not -- he is just a smart tennis player, and, you  know, I -- I am learning a few things.  I am constantly  learning things each time I play Andre, and this time I  just won't be so stupid to say that I discovered any.  


Q.  Do you want to say what his weaknesses were  today?  

MICHAEL CHANG: Today, Andre played some good  tennis today and I think that he was a little bit  better than I was.  I think that it was nice to have my  family on the sidelines and have a great crowd and it  was just nice to play in front of this kind of  atmosphere here in Frankfurt.  I hope to be back here  next year and many years to follow.  


Q.  I think your serve was perfect today.  Did  you do a lot more training with your serve?  

MICHAEL CHANG: A little bit.  A little bit.  


Q.  Because it was perfect.  I thought that was  Ivanisevic out there.  

MICHAEL CHANG: Well, I could have used his 25  aces, but I am working on it.  It is getting better.  It is getting better.  It is coming along, and I --  hopefully, I look forward, hopefully, to one day where  I will play a guy like Goran and I will have more aces  like him.  


Q.  I hope so too?  

MICHAEL CHANG: Thank you very much.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT