ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 16, 1994
Michael Chang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  So, did you not play to win today, you just  played?  

MICHAEL CHANG:  I just played today.  I  figured that -- I did a lot of thinking last night,  today and stuff, and I knew that the way I approached  yesterday's match wasn't right for me, and I put a  little bit too much emphasis on winning and losing and  just too much emphasis on the whole thing.  For me, I  just kind of went back and listened to music and stuff  and realized what really is important is just knowing  that -- for me, knowing that God loves me; knowing that  my family loves me and it just made it a lot easier to  go out and play today.  I felt really very refreshed  today; didn't feel like a whole lot of pressure to win  or anything like that and I went out and I played and  played great tennis.  So, I hope that I can go out with  this kind of attitude every time I step out on the  court, but obviously, sometimes it is going to be  difficult in certain instances because you feel like  sometimes you just want to -- I don't know, you just  want to win some matches.  So it is difficult to get  that out of your head sometimes.  


Q.  That was a big blow, losing to Bruguera for  you really; it meant that much to you?  

MICHAEL CHANG:  Yeah, it was disappointing  because I never lost to Sergi before and I think  particularly on -- I think if it was on clay I wouldn't  have felt as bad, but I think that being on the surface  that I feel more comfortable than he does, and you  know, it was a little bit frustrating.  But I think it  was good for me.  It is good for me.  It helped me to  keep things in perspective.  Still, I think the loss  was good for me.  


Q.  In a way, that is sort of the way you have  been working the last two, three years, gearing  yourself and to lose to him now as opposed to two,  three years ago is--  

MICHAEL CHANG:  You figure in the majority of  the cases you have some of the best players playing  against each other after so many, many years; you  figure everybody is going to beat everybody unless it  is Brad Gilbert and Ivan Lendl.  


Q.  Michael, do you remember ever winning a match  in a big tournament so easily?  

MICHAEL CHANG:  Well, you know, I think that,  you know, although the score was 6-1, 6-0, sometimes it  doesn't appear to be quite so easy.  These matches are  still not easy to win.  I think that sometimes the  score can be very deceiving.  I think today wasn't an  extremely tough match, but I think it was still a match  that I had to concentrate and I had to work hard and I  had to execute. You know, you just -- it is just the  way it is sometimes.  I think that this surface for  Alberto is a new surface for him, and it is going to  take him a little bit of time to get used to it; as it  is for all the players.  All the players have certain  surfaces that they are not quite familiar with, and it  takes time.  You can't expect someone to make, you  know, a total adjustment right away; particularly one  that doesn't quite suit your game.  So it -- these  things take time.  


Q.  Michael, if Alberto had not played against  you, you should have had to play Stich.  Do you think  it is fair?  

MICHAEL CHANG:  It doesn't bother me to play  --  


Q.  I mean, to get in your group when the group  has already started.  

MICHAEL CHANG:  Well, that was something that  they were discussing over the -- prior to this event as  far as, you know, the alternating in and not just  playing, but playing for prize money which is fine, but  also playing for the points and eligibility to get into  the semifinals.  I think they took all the top players  and I think it was a 50/50 split on that, so they  decided to make a decision for themselves.  I was one  individual that voted against it, just because I didn't  quite feel that it was quite fair for all the players  because maybe one player is more difficult to play than  another player and/or vice versa, and in those  situations it is difficult.  But, you know, I think  that if I were to play Stich and, you know -- okay,  well, take, for instance -- I think if you were to take  Sergi, for instance, for the next match, I think he  would much rather prefer to play Alberto than Stich.  Obviously, if he loses to Stich, it is going to hurt  his record in the group, but, you know, whatever  happens, happens.  So they made a decision and as long  as the players know what the decision is beforehand, I  think it is okay.  If this is something that 50% of the  players feel that it is okay, 50% of the players feel  that it is not okay, then you have to make a decision.  


Q.  Just to make sure I got this, they asked you  guys before you came here?  

MICHAEL CHANG:  Yeah, it was a rule change as  far as the alternate --  before I believe the alternate  was able to go on to play if someone were to get,  obviously, injured before the tournament started then  he would just be like a regular player in the group,  but if play had already started where one person had  played a match, and then got hurt and they couldn't  play anymore, before the rule was that the alternate  would just go in and play for prize money and that was  it.  Now they have changed it so that he cannot only  play for prize money, but he can also, depending on how  his record is, still qualify to get to the semifinals  and, you know, to have a shot at winning the  tournament.  


Q.  When did they pool you guys on this?  

MICHAEL CHANG:  Let us see.  I made a  decision somewhere around -- I think somewhere around  Tokyo.  


Q.  Your understanding was they asked all the top  tens what they or did they ask. . .  

MICHAEL CHANG:  Which is fine.  


Q.  Did you sense he was hurt?  

MICHAEL CHANG:  No.  I didn't.  Personally I  didn't.  I didn't feel like  -- his forehand was still  working pretty good.  He is had quit a few winners  today, but I didn't sense any -- I didn't sense any  kind of pain on his part.  I didn't see him grabbing  his wrist or, you know, anything like that.  


Q.  Agassi said yesterday that he felt like the  way the rules are Alberto deserves to be here, but the  rules shouldn't be that way because you shouldn't be  able to play the clay court circuit and get in.  

Do you agree with that.  

MICHAEL CHANG:  Well, I think that it is a  difficult one to call because you do have to give the  guy credit for getting into the finals of the French  Open.  But on the same part, you take it into  consideration he may be able to get into this event  this year through his clay court results because he  didn't really have any other results that helped him  out as far as other surfaces, but you figure that next  year it won't be the same case for him; if he is to  make Frankfurt he has not only to play well in the clay  court tournaments, but he has to play well on other  surfaces as well because he has designated certain  tournaments that he has to play.  You have a Super 9  event where he has to play, you know, 7 of those events  and only one -- only two of them are on clay.  So, you  know, in that situation, because he is a top 10 player,  he is forced to play those tournaments.  And, you know,  that is a whole new ballgame.  So I think that is one  of the reasons why I think Sergi has earned more  respect over the past couple of years; not just because  of his clay court results, but he has been able to play  better on the other surfaces and that has helped him  equally for Frankfurt, so...  


Q.  Michael, do you think it is fair for the  public that one of the players were here had lost his  two matches in one and a half hour?  

MICHAEL CHANG:  Do I think it is fair?  


Q.  Yes.  

MICHAEL CHANG:  Well, I think you guys are  getting to the point where you don't feel like -- I am  sensing like you have don't feel Alberto should be  here.  I think that when you take a look at at what he  has accomplished this year has been a great year for  him.  And I mean, if this were -- if this event were to  be on clay, it will be a whole new ballgame.  People  would say that, you know, why are some of the other  players in this event if it is on clay because Alberto  would be doing a heck of a lot better, but, you know,  it is just not so that way.  So I feel that Alberto has  a right to be here because he is has accomplished a lot  and sure, I think over the next few years he is going  to have to prove himself not just on clay, but if he  chooses to just play clay, then that is his  prerogative, but I think it is going to be more  difficult for him to qualify for Frankfurt if he just  plays clay.  


Q.  Agassi match?  

MICHAEL CHANG:  I am looking forward to it.  I always look forward to playing Andre.  Andre says  that he is feeling well, he is playing great and stuff,  and, you know, just for me, that is fine.  So, I think  whenever Andre has done well in some tournaments he  comes out and he says things like that, which is fine,  that is the way he is.  And I am looking forward to  it.  I always look forward to play any one of my  American peers; seems too bring out an extra fire from  all the guys.  And it should be a fun and exciting  one.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT