ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 15, 1994
Michael Chang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What happened?  We supposed that you were the  favorite today?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Well, I think my approach  today was -- I think it was very wrong.  I think today  I put a little bit too much emphasis on winning and  losing instead of just going out and playing.  I think  that for me that is just not the way I should be  approaching these matches.  I think I approached it a  little bit too seriously in a sense, and for today, I  think obviously -- I think I paid the price for it.   
 

Q.  Michael, forgive me, you have been asked this  question many times.  Have you remodelled your serve?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  A little bit.  A little bit.  Just made a few minor adjustments here and there.   
 

Q.  Looks a bit like Pete's?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  No, I don't think so.  For  me, I am just trying to be able to go up, and each time  I serve to be able to have a good rhythm because the  serve is something that if you are in a good groove, if everything is working well, you do the same thing every  single time, your percentage of your serve is going to  improve.   
 

Q.  A lot of 180s on the first, but you hit a lot  110s on the second.  Are you losing a bit on the second  serve?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  No, I could hit 180 for a  second serve too.  That is not a problem, but I think  that in instances people had mentioned my second serve,  but I think if you take a look at some of the stats, I  am No. 1 as far as second serve points won.  So it is  not something that I am too concerned with at this  present time.  I think maybe five years ago or  something, that it definitely was concerning me because  a lot of people were taking advantage of my second  serve, but I feel confident enough that on my second  serve variety -- I feel like I can let go my first  serve, not be content to just get my first serve in.   
 

Q.  Technically, which was the difficulty for you  today?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I think for me it was a  little bit -- you know, little bit difficult for me  consistencywise.  I think that -- I think I missed -- I  had quite a few errors today; just didn't -- didn't,  you know, didn't knock those numbers down a little  bit.  Sergi didn't do anything different today.  As he  always plays, he played very consistent from the back  and the type of player where if you are playing well  and you hit your shots, most likely on this type of  surface you are going to be able to come on top, but if  you are missing a little bit or if you are just playing  defensive tennis against him, you are going to come up  short.  Sergi is the type of player that he will take  advantage of those opportunities.  I think he is quite  able to move the ball around a lot better on clay than  on this particular surface.  But like I said over the  past two years, he has definitely improved himself on  other surfaces besides clay, and it has helped him out.   
 

Q.  In your opinion, what has Bruguera most  improved in since last time?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Well, it is difficult to say  because I mean, I played him this year at Wimbledon and  Wimbledon is a little bit difficult to assess one's  game because the points are so short and sometimes--  Wimbledon is just -- it is just difficult to assess.  I did play him, I think, two years ago in the  Hamlet cup and that was a three-set match.  I think he  improved his serve a lot more.  I would say that is  probably the major improvement in Sergi's game over the  past few years.   
 

Q.  Michael, you have come here for the third  year running as the third American and is it difficult  to see you, now having lost a match, getting into the  semifinals; do you find it an uphill struggle to get to  Frankfurt?  Did you find that it is an uphill struggle  when you get here and the achievement is just getting  to Frankfurt?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Are you saying that for me  the mentality is to just to get to Frankfurt and that  is it; is that what you are saying?   
 

Q.  No.  Do you see yourself getting to the  semifinals here?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Well, obviously each year I  come here it's something that I want to accomplish, you  know, but you are going to have some years where you  play better and some years where you are just not quite  -- you know, when you come up a few points short.  I  think that is going to be the case for a lot of these  matches; whether they are won or lost, it is just going  to be a few points here or there. That is what really  separates the best players in the world, I think.  That  that is really what it comes down to.  And I think even  for today's situation, I think I had a set point in the  first set.  I think had I won that point, and I held  the 5-3 game just a few points here and there, I could  have really turned things around and makes things be a  whole new perspective.  But still those points are  very, very important points.  And, you know, I hope  that, you know, each time those points come around I  will get better and better at them.   
 

Q.  Michael, do you think that a clay court  player like Bruguera could have an option of winning  here?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Well, I think everybody has  certain amount of chance to win here.  I don't count  Sergi out on any surface or anywhere.  You don't get to  be No. 3 in the world to play top 10 tennis year after  year.  I think that Sergi proved himself on other  surfaces because if you look at his first year when he  did do well, when he broke the top, he was playing --  everything was on clay, but you come back the following  year and certain designations where you have to play  other tournaments on other surfaces, and Sergi wouldn't  be a top 10 unless he was capable of doing that.   
 

Q.  Would you say you were nervous today?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  No.  I don't think I was  nervous.  I think my approach and my attitude wasn't  quite right.  Everybody has a different way of  approaching it.  This just should not be my attitude of  concentrating too much on the winning and losing,  because that has never been my attitude and it  shouldn't never be.  I will change that in my next  match and hope there will be a new Michael Chang.   
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT