ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 14, 1994
Michael Chang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  I understand they have slowed down the court  surface as compared to next year.  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Yeah, it has slowed down a  little bit.  I think the last two years the surface was  quite fast.  It is still the same surface, but I think  that because it is a new surface, it seems to be a  little bit slower, but it is a good medium-paced  surface.  I think if you want to play serve and volley,  you can do that.  You can play in the back, you can do  that as well.  I think in the last two years it was a  little bit too fast.   
 

Q.  Do you think that evening it out favors  anyone, it opens it up for the field?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I think it opens it up, but I  think it also makes for a lot more enjoyable matches.  I think the points are going to be a little bit  longer.  I think you are going to see a lot more play  from the players rather than some of the big serves  because you have got quite a few big servers here.   
 

Q.  Instead of Goran and Pete whacking balls you  have got a chance, Andre has got a chance, everybody  here has got a chance?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I think that it just -- I  think that even on some of the faster surfaces it  doesn't necessarily mean that the baseliners don't have  a play, but I think that they have a better chance of  breaking the other server and stuff.  And, you know,  even a couple of years ago when Courier got to the  finals the surface was still relatively fast, but he  still got to the finals there.  But I think it is going  to make things a lot more interesting for all the  players, not just when a serve and volleyer plays  against a baseliner, but when a serve and volleyer  plays against another serve and volleyer.   
 

Q.  How would you rate this year as compared to  the last four years for you?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Well, I think over the last  few years it is getting better and better.  I feel like  I am making progress each year, and that, for me, is  very important knowing that I am heading in the right  direction.   
 

Q.  Now, you say you are making progress.  You  are still adding to your game?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I feel like I am improving.  I feel like my game is improving.  I feel like the  resultswise is getting a little bit better each year  and I am hoping that -- I think if you look at the new  way the ranking system is now, I am not very far from  reaching No. 2.  In fact, Pete is obviously a little  bit ahead of the rest of the field at the moment, but  you figure in some instances what goes up must come  down.  I think that all the guys from that are here  from two on are very close.  I think -- actually had I  won Paris, I think I would have been pretty close to  being the No. 3 or No. 2 in the world and same  situation here because the undefeated champion here, I  think, gets somewhere around 600 something points, I  think.  So that, by all means, is not out of my range.  So I feel like each year is getting better and better,  and I feel like my time will come.   
 

Q.  Michael, from your point of view, being a  so-called baseline player, do you think it is fair to  the players who used to play from the baseline that the  season's final every year is at such a fast court?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I don't think so.  I think  that, you know, throughout the year obviously you do  have some faster surfaces, some slower surfaces, but I  think the majority of the surfaces still tend to be on  the quick side, and I think that they have made the  effort, particularly this year, to slow down the court  a little bit to give some of the other players a better  chance to do better.  And I still think that it is good  to have the season championships on an indoor surface.  I think it is still, on the average, really, throughout  the year, the only slow part of the year maybe is the  clay court season, other than that, the grass court  season is very fast, hard court season is very fast and  indoor season is very fast, so...   
 

Q.  You wouldn't suggest a change in surface or  --  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I particularly would not,  no.  Unless it was something that tended to be, you  know, very similar whether indoor hard court, for  example, but other than that, I wouldn't change  anything.   
 

Q.  The public role that you play, I don't want  to compare you with Berasategui, but, you know -- for  example, what I mean when I say that, people might hope  to have all the serve and volleyers playing this year  in the contest, how does it affect you?  Is it  something that doesn't matter at all for you or are you  angry in a way that people are only for the fast  players to be here?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I think if Germany prefers to  have serve and volley players, that is their choice,  but I am here.  And whether they like the way I play or  not is not really up to them.  I am here because not  only I can play tennis, but I can play against serve  and volley players.  If I am not capable of doing that,  I wouldn't be here, as is for the other players who  play from the back, as far as Bruguera, and you know  Agassi and Berastegui.  So I think that they are still  the four players in the other group because a lot of  serve and volley there, and I think it is good to see a  good mixture of all types of tennis.  I think you are  going to get that this week.   
 

Q.  Are you at all surprised about the run that  Andre has had of late?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  No, not necessarily.  I think  that in all the players' careers they are going to have  times when they are up and times when they are down,  and everyone has certain periods of time when they are  playing quite well, and obviously, Andre has been able  to do that since the Open.  And if you can recall,  there was a summer where Edberg had unbelievable --  where he had four titles.  So it is not surprising to  see that at this caliber of tennis because I think all  the players here are quite capable of doing that.   
 

Q.  What is he doing different now than what he  was doing before?  I mean, you guys played a lot when  you were younger, and what do you see him -- what do  you see as the difference in the game from a junior  standpoint and now, just in the last say six, eight  months?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Well, I think that Andre has  been able to kind of solidify things a little bit  more.  I think partly when you think about reaching  here, I think that if you are capable of doing well in  some of the bigger tournaments, you know, that gives  you a good chance to make it here.  Obviously, Andre  has been playing some good solid tennis.  I think he  hasn't been giving the other players a whole lot of  opportunities to win matches against him.  So I think  just his play -- his level of play is very high right  now.   
 

Q.  ATP Final, what does it mean, especially for  you, in comparison to Grand Slam tournaments?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I think that it is difficult  to rate which -- obviously a Grand Slam title is  something that is very, very important to all the  players, but I think also here in Frankfurt being that  you have just the top eight players, I think that that  creates for a very special atmosphere, and a unique  event in that and that you just have the best players  going up against the best players.  And I think for me  it is -- you are in an elite group when you come here  to play in Frankfurt, and I think it is difficult to  really compare the two.  Obviously here is very, very  important, but winning a Grand Slam is also very, very  important.   
 

Q.  You have six tournaments this year.  It was  the best season for you in your life?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I wouldn't say so.  I think  as far as titleswise, yes, but I think it is too  difficult to compare to 1989 when you win a Grand Slam  event.  You know, it is difficult to beat that kind of  a year, and I think that I feel like each year is  getting a little bit better and better.  I am hoping  that sooner, in the near future the next Grand Slam  title will come around.   
 

Q.  Any reason of success because of the six  winning of the tournaments?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I think I am making  progress.  I think I am improving as a player.  I think  I am maturing as I play the game.  I think I am  maturing as a person as well.  I think it is all coming  into play, and I feel like I am learning a lot and I  feel that like God has his timetable and when it comes  time for me to do a little bit better, then I will be  able to do that.  I think the rankings are all very,  very close, and if I am capable of winning another big  title, it is quite easy to move up to No. 2 or even  higher, to No. 1.   
 

Q.  Would you please be so kind to judge the  other players in your group starting please with Andre  Agassi?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Well, I think all the players  are tough.  Obviously no easy players here.  Everyone  accomplished a lot this year.  Andre, I think, is  playing very well; particularly through the fall of  this year, and I think that his play will probably  continue here in Frankfurt.  I think that Sergi is a  player that last couple of years has learned to play on  some of the faster surfaces, not just on clay.  I think  that has helped him out in many areas, and I think -- I  don't think you can really label him anymore as just a  clay court player.  I think for Alberto this will be a  new experience for him.  Obviously he is quite capable  of playing on clay and winning so many titles on clay  and also doing so well at the French Open, and -- but  tennis is still tennis, and, you know, obviously he  knows how to play the game and he knows how to win in  the same time when he is winning seven titles this  year.  Everybody is playing well.  Everybody is, I  think, feeling pretty good, so it should really be a  fun week.   
 

Q.  What about Boris Becker, some other players  said he had an unbeatable face; what do you think?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I think that I don't exactly  know what you mean by unbeatable face.  Obviously Boris  is coming into his own and I think that when Boris is  playing very, very well, when he is at his best, he is  a difficult player to beat, and, you know, that is  something that we are just going to have to wait and  see this particular week; how everyone is playing.  But  I think that everyone is going to be playing their best  tennis.  I am sure that Boris will come out playing his  best tennis and that's what makes it fun.   
 

Q.  Can you please describe your coach,  especially his special --  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Carl, for me, is not just a  coach.  He is also my brother, and also takes care of a  lot of the -- just a lot of other things on the road  type of manager in a sense, and it has been working out  quite well over the past few years.  And I am just very  pleased with the way we have been able to work  together.  And Carl has helped me on many, many areas  of my life; not just on the court, but also off the  court.  And I am just happy to have him travel with me  and be as close as we are.   
 

Q.  A special situation to be coached by a  brother?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I think it is.  I don't think that you see a whole lot of other situations where you  have brothers coaching -- coaching their brothers in  tennis.  You have a similar situation where  Mr. Bruguera coaches Sergi.  But other than that, it is  pretty much a coach-player relationship.  I don't think  that there are any family ties involved in the majority  of the players, so I think it is very unique.  But I  think also, at the same time, Carl and I come from the  same basic fundamentals, and Carl understands me; he  understands me as a person and he understands my game,  and for me, what type of game is best for me.   
 

Q.  You have some superstitions, some special  behavior before the match?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  No, I am not superstitious,  no.   
 

Q.  What do you know about Frankfurt?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I don't know a whole lot  about Frankfurt.  I know over the past few years I come  here and play tennis and just get to see a little bit  here and there, but other than that, you know, I think  I know maybe the Frankfurt airport, the best out of all  of Frankfurt just because you pass by so much when you  travel across Europe.   
 

Q.  Do you know what apple wine is?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  No.   
 

Q.  It is a special drink of wine.  Have you had  it before?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  No, I don't --   
 

Q.  It is a wine produced by apples.  You don't  know?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I don't drink so I wouldn't  know.   
 

Q.  How do you see your chances in your group?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I feel pretty good about my  chances.  I think I am just going to take it match by  match, concentrate on my match tomorrow against Sergi,  take it from there.   
 

Q.  What did you do last week?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Actually, I stayed a few more  days in Paris and then I came over on Thursday.   
 

Q.  Do you want to have the chance to see a  little bit of Frankfurt?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I think that is difficult for  this particular week to go and to see a whole lot of  Frankfurt because this tournament here is so important,  and I think that I need to be -- you need to be fresh  and healthy and strong to play, and I think I do have  one day where I wouldn't play, so I will just maybe  take that time and maybe go and see a little bit.   
 

Q.  Pete often says that he just stays at the  hotel if he is not playing and not training.  Are you a  guy who goes out more often or are you really  concentrating on the match and on the training?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I am not the type of person  that is going to go out a whole lot, not to any discos  or anything like that.  I think it really depends on  the week; obviously, also where I am.  If I am not at a  place that I am very familiar with and I might go to  someplace that I know, a restaurant that is very good,  but other than that, I am not going to take chances to  go around places that I am not familiar with.   
 

Q.  Do you think you can beat Sergi from the  baseline?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Well, I think it is -- I  think for me to play from the baseline is not so much  my game anymore.  For me, I feel that my game is to be  aggressive and to come in when the opportunity presents  itself because I think in this day and age it is very  difficult to expect to beat best players in the world  by just playing from the baseline.  I think the court  is a little bit faster for me each year, it seems, and  players are getting better and players are getting  bigger as well.  So it is something that I feel that it  is important for me to keep my -- (Inaudible.)   
 

Q.  Can you compare the surfaces, Paris,  Stockholm and Frankfurt?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Stockholm wasn't an ideal  surface for anybody, I don't think.  It was just way to  fast and the balls were way to hard.  So it is just a  tournament -- that particular court just was totally  different from the whole year for everybody.   
 
I think Paris was a good medium-paced surface  and conditions, I think, are pretty similar to here.  It was a little bit different.  The balls are the  same.  And other than that, I think it is pretty close  to Paris, a medium-paced surface.  I think it is a good  surface for all the players.   
 

Q.  You played a lot of tournaments in Asia and  you are very successful there this year too.  Why you  play so many tournaments actually?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Well, Asia, for me, is a very  nice place to go to.  It is very fun for me.  It is  very -- I think the atmosphere for me is very good.  And also, Asia, for me, is a place that, tenniswise, is  booming.  And I think, for me, I feel like to be a part  of that, to be a part of the tournaments involved there  is very important for me too because I feel like I am  in a position to create a good -- just a better  awareness of tennis there, and more enthusiasm for the  game.  And for me, it is not a place that I am -- that  is difficult for me to get used to.  The food is very  easy -- the food is very easy and the culture is very  easy to get used to.  It is not something that I have  to get used to, it is somewhere where I can blend in.   
 

Q.  Each country would be like -- (Inaudible.)  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I think that each country has  something very, very unique about itself, and I think  it is difficult to say which one is better than the  other because each country has got something special.  So from there, it is -- I kind of like to look at it as  just -- I like all the countries that I have played in  so far, and I hope over the next few years I will get  the chance to play in a few more.   
 

Q.  What do people in the United States think  about Asian people in America?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Well, I think that what is  great about America is that you don't have just one set  of people.  I mean, what is great about America, it is  a big melting pot, so you get a chance to learn about  different people, different cultures, and get to  experience just the way they live and the differences  in maybe their food and things like that.  So, I feel  that what makes America great in many instances, you  have so many cultures and so many different people, and  it blends in and it is just almost taking the best of  the whole world in a sense.   
 

Q.  Just the question because sometimes John  McEnroe said to Lendl he would be never American  because he is from Czechoslovakia?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I don't agree with that.  I  think that it is difficult to really define what an  American is because an American could be Chinese,  Mexican, Japanese, Spanish, Czechoslovakian, it doesn't  matter.  America has got them all.   
 

Q.  You won the '89 French Open but never other  Grand Slams title from that time.  What do you think  --- what do you have to do for the next win?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I don't think I have to  change anything.  I feel that for me, my time will  come, and I feel like each year I am improving; getting  better and better.  And, you know, if it is in God's  will for me to win another Grand Slam, it will come.  I  am not worried so much about, you know, the timing or  things like that.  My job, for me, is just to continue  to improve and continue to work hard.  I feel that my  time will come.   
 

Q.  Good luck.  If you play against Goran, what would be the  tactic for that match?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Tactic is as it always is for  every match; still constantly attacking, being  aggressive, and if my opponent is able to beat me with  better shots, on that particular day he is a better  player.   
 

Q.  I am asking the same question to all eight of  you.  Looking ahead to '95, if there was one thing in  men's tennis that you would like to see changed to  improve the game next year, what would it be?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  That is a little difficult to  say.  I think that --   
 

Q.  I can throw a couple of things that the other  players have said.  Edberg would like to see more done for the  kids off the court.  Becker would like to hear people  stop asking him what is wrong with the game.  That is just two for you.  What would Chang's  view be?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I think it is a combination  of -- probably a combination of all.  I think there is  a lot of things -- there is a lot of things that can  always be improved.   
 

Q.  But for you, personally, is there one thing  that sticks out that particularly would help the image  of the sport if it was changed?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I particularly would like to  see more people around the world be a part of tennis  either participating in tennis or picking up the sport  because for me, I think in situations like in Asia  where the facilities aren't quite available yet, given  that opportunity I would like to see them --  (Inaudible.) --  make a lot of friendships and really  it is a sport for a lifetime because you have people  playing that are as young as two years old and players  playing as old as 95 years old.  So I would like to see  the game expand and get better and better each year.   
 

Q.  Michael, about tomorrow's match against  Bruguera, what are you expecting for tomorrow for your  first match?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Well, I am going to expect  tough matches throughout the week.  You've got the  eight best players here, you have to be playing some of  your best tennis in order to do well.  And I think  tomorrow is going to be a match that you are going to  have a lot of long rallies, a lot of tough points, and,  you know, I think that other than that, it is just  going to be a tough match.   
 

Q.  What do you think, in general, about the  performance of the Spanish tennis?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I think Spanish tennis has  been improving definitely over the past few years; not  only on the men's side, but also on the women's side.  And I think it is good for -- obviously, for Spanish  tennis, and, you know, for me it is fine.   
 

Q.  Do you think that they are still specialists  only on clay or do they -- are they improving?  Do you  know that they are improving on other surfaces as well?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I think that I feel that they  are improving on other surfaces.  I think Sergi has  made a very good change in a sense.  I don't think you  can really label him anymore as a clay court player  because he has done well at Wimbledon this year and  also on the hard courts and indoor surfaces, so I  think, you know, he is trying to change that, and he  has been successful at it.  But I think still, to take  everything surface by surface, Spanish players are  still definitely the best as far as any surface on  clay.  Their best surface is still clay by far.   
 

Q.  Which tournament did you play the best this  year?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I think Cincinnati, probably.   
 

Q.  Last year too?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Last year Cincinnati was a  good tournament for me.   
 

Q.  Maybe this is your favorite tournament?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Cincinnati?  No.  I think it  is one of my favorites, but I think there are a lot of  tournaments that I enjoy, but of this particular year,  I would probably have to say Cincinnati.   
 

Q.  What do you mean this year it was better than  the last year?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  No, I am just saying from  week-to-week I have had some weeks where I played good  tennis and some weeks where I played not so good  tennis, and some weeks where I played great, great  tennis.  So...   
 

Q.  What is your opinion about the Davis Cup  team?  What is happening this year?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Well, I think that for next  year, I think that it is going to be up to Tom to  decided the team.  I think that in a sense, everybody  is on the team because you have so many good players  from the United States, and I think it is a matter of  getting the team together in a sense.  Obviously I  think that if you -- if you were to put everybody on  that team it would almost be a very, very, very  difficult team to beat, so it is just something that we  are just going to have to wait and see how things go  next year.   
 

Q.  Are you playing?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I am considering it.   
 

Q.  Are you happy with the draw this week?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Yeah, I think it suits me  fine.   
 

Q.  People are describing your group as the  easier group, saying that you and Agassi --  (Inaudible.)  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I think that if you were to  take the same group and put it on clay, you know, we  would be the tough group, so it depends on how you look  at it.  I think that everybody here is tough, and I  don't think you can say that one group is tougher than  the other.  Maybe because it is an indoor surface, you  know, it may tend to favor some of the bigger serve and  volleyers.  I think that there are players -- Andre has  proved this year and I think that I have proved over  the past few years that we can play on indoor courts.  It is not something that is very foreign to us and it  is not something that, you know, handicaps us by any  means.   
 

Q.  Generally, how do you go into a week like  this?  Do you go in with a serious hope of winning the  championship or do you hope to do as well as you can  but no realistic goal of winning?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I don't go in with the  mentality to just go in and do as well as I can.  I go  in with the mentality to win this title because for me  not going in with that attitude is -- it makes no sense  for me to be here at all.  So I feel that I'm quite  capable of doing that, and I think of all the players  there isn't a player here that I have not beaten  before, so for me, it is a matter of having that  mentality, that attitude, and going out and  accomplishing it.   
 

Q.  Are you conscious that it is at the end of  the season or are you like Sampras, complaining there  isn't any break, it is just non-stop?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  For me, I think in some  years, obviously if you have had a very difficult year,  physically you can feel that very much like it is the  end of the year, but I think I have spaced my  scheduling out much better this year than previous  years where I don't feel fatigued, I don't feel very  tired coming into this event like some players felt in  the past or maybe even this week.  So that, for me, is  going to be very, very important because you need to be  fresh coming into here.  Obviously every match is going  to be tougher and each match is going to take a lot out  of you, so although you may think that it is indoor  tennis, it might not matter physical conditioning, but  in this case, being the end of the year, it always  matters.   
 

Q.  Who is the favorite?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I don't think there is a  favorite.   
 

Q.  Michael, if there is a rule that you would  like to change for 1995, which one would you change;  rackets, balls, points system, ranking system,  whatever?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I would probably -- somehow  I'd probably want to change probably somehow the  ranking system in the context that you have so many  tournaments that don't count.  I don't like that idea  because I feel like tennis is a profession and each  tournament you should take pride in what you do.  I  think they have had other systems where it wasn't the  best 14 in the rankings still came out very similar, so  the best -- the title best 14 and everything after that  doesn't count, it kind of -- it doesn't sound good.   
 

Q.  Because majority of players here have the  same opinion, but it doesn't change, what does that  mean?  The players most of them give an opinion that  the system doesn't change?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Well, there has been a lot of  talk recently.  The difficult thing is that the ranking  system is a tricky thing because it is not where you  can -- it is not easy to find a system that works for  everybody; for players who want to play a certain  amount of events or players that want to play maybe 30  plus events, so, you know, I think in a system that is  very fair for all the players, players that win the  Grand Slam events, players that do well in the bigger  tournaments, there is a lot of discussion as far as how  many points for which tournament; what size tournament,  so it is not an easy thing to say, okay, we will take  away the best 14 and bring in -- (Inaudible.)  It is  something that is going to take time.   
 

Q.  You think there is a chance that it doesn't  stay the way it is now?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  There is a chance.  I think  there is always -- people are always looking to improve  things.  If you can improve things; by all means, you  try to do it.  It doesn't make sense to just sit around  and just be content the whole time because things  change and situations change and sometimes you have to  change things for the better.   
 

Q.  You are suggesting by this I mean, which  direction would you go changing the ranking system,  what would you suggest?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I would somehow make it so  that each tournament that you play counts, somehow.   
 

Q.  Perhaps in different ways?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Different ways.  But I just  don't like the idea where if the player plays, you  know, a player plays 30 something tournaments that 16  tournaments don't count.  It just doesn't make sense.   
 

Q.  That is very good, to give different points  to different tournaments --  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I think that -- it is just  because it is a profession; you should take pride in  everything, every time you step on the court you take  pride in what you do.   
 

Q.  Be more serious?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I don't feel like there is a  whole lot of tanking or anything like that, but I think  that still there needs to be a pressure factor too  because if players go out and they play their best 14  and some of the players who I think were ranked a  little bit lower to have a little bit more freedom to  just go out and play knowing that there is nothing that  they can lose as far as their ranking; they can't drop  in their ranking because they lose to maybe a player  who is ranked a top 10 player, so, you know, for them,  it just takes a lot more pressure off them, and for me,  I feel like there should always be some kind of  pressure somewhere, I mean, from somewhere that you can  lose something if you don't perform.   
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT