THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 15, 1994
Michael Chang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  Michael, in the second set, there was a point that you
disputed or it looked like you were disputing that; actually went
in your favor.  When you were talking to the chair you were --
were you saying that, that actually the serve had been in or --

 MICHAEL CHANG:  Talking about the last game?

 Q.  No, it was in the second set.  It was -- you don't recall
that one?

 MICHAEL CHANG:  That was on set point for me, right.

 Q.  No, it was like at 5-5 and if Rafter had the point it
would have gone 6-5 in the second set.

 MICHAEL CHANG:  No, they posted the score wrong on that one.
 That was actually my set point.  They posted the score wrong
on the corner there, so I was -- that point actually went against
me.  At that point it was 5-5 and had a second serve, it was actually
my set point if I recall correctly, and Patrick hit a serve down
the middle and the gentleman, calling the center service line,
called it out, and the umpire overruled him and therefore, because
he overruled it, I guess I didn't have a play on it so they ruled
it as an ace and went back to deuce.  So that point actually went
against me.  I thought that that was a little bit unprofessional
on his part.  Reason being, is that when a situation is that tight
and that close and the call is that close, you normally have faith
in your linespeople if you are the chair umpire making the correct
call and normally a chair umpire is not going to overrule in that
kind of situation if the ball is that close.  So I was a little
bit frustrated with him; a little bit frustrated actually on the
last game as well on that one point because I had Love-30 on his
serve and then he said it was too close to call, a little bit
of frustration, but I think all in all, throughout your career,
you are going to have a few calls that go against you and a few
calls that go for you.  By the end of your career you look back
and they will even out.

 Q.  Michael, can you comment on Patrick's game; what your
thoughts are, how you saw him play, etc.?

 MICHAEL CHANG:  I think Patrick played some good tennis today,
definitely.  He served very well and he covered the net very well
today.  I think that I wasn't quite able to put as much pressure
on him as I would have liked.  I had a few opportunities on second
serves, wasn't able to capitalize.  I don't think I pushed him
as hard from the backcourt than I would have liked to have.  So
all in all, I think he played a pretty good match.

 Q.  Can you see a lot of potential in him?

 MICHAEL CHANG:  I think there is a lot of potential for a lot
of guys out there.  Really depends on whether they can put it
altogether for a season. Obviously Patrick has been playing some
good tennis for the last year or so.  He is heading in that direction.
 I think there are a lot of guys out on the tour nowadays that
have what they label as potential for getting into the top 10
and staying there.  I think that players normally can earn that
kind of respect when they are able to get to the top 10 and not
just stay there for one year, but stay there for at least a couple
of years, a few years.  That shows that-- the following year is
normally the year that they have to deal with a little bit more
pressure, a little bit more -- players will be gunning for them,
and so normally time will tell.

 Q.  How are you feeling now with -- are you -- as far as energywise
and enthusiasm for the game?

 MICHAEL CHANG:  My enthusiasm for the game is always very good.
 If I am on the road for you know, a long time, then I get a little
bit tired.  But I think that is just more physically and mentally
being fatigued.  I feel weak.  I am a little bit disappointed
with the way the match went.  I still feel I can play better tennis
than that.  I am sure there will be times throughout the year
or in the future I will get a chance to play Patrick and I hope
that I will be able to come out and play my best tennis and he
will be able to play his best tennis.  I think when you have contrast
in styles like this, it makes for fun matches.  All in all, it
has been -- last two weeks have been good learning weeks for me.
 Coming off the win in Philadelphia, I think I have slacked off
just a tad and I think that it is a good lesson for me. Although,
you come off a win in a tournament like Philadelphia, you have
to keep the level of play  -- the standard of play and practice
very high in order to be able to compete with the players day
in and day out.  Because guys like Patrick and a lot of the other
players are looking for any opportunity they can get to breakthrough
in a lot of these tournaments and you know, to pull an upset or
two.  I'd say the last two tournaments were good lessons for me.
 I have got a little bit of time to think about things and little
bit of time to start getting back in the hard-work ethic and bounce
back and get ready for the next tournament.

 Q.  Last few months we've seen quite a few top 10 guys are
out.  Do you think that is because the depth of the top 100 is
stronger than ever or pressure is on the top 10 guys?

 MICHAEL CHANG:  I think it is a combination of things. I think
it is a combination that men's tennis -- the depth is much greater
now, but I think also it is tough to expect top 10 players to
come out day in day out and expect to play their best tennis.
Obviously, they are going to have tournaments where they are playing
their best tennis and tournaments where they are not playing so
good. You have got a lot of guys in the top 10 who some guys are
just hovering outside that you would consider a top 10 player.
 I think when you take those factors into consideration, there
is always going to be a few that have good weeks and always a
few that are going to have not so good weeks.

 Q.  Thank you. 


  End of FastScripts....


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT