COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 10, 1993
Michael Chang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Michael are you disappointed?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Well, to a point.  I think I had a quite a  few chances today, as I had in the last few matches  that I played, but I think that there - in looking over  the past years, there is - at least I feel and Carl  feels - there has been progress in my game, and that is  a step forward.  And, you know, as long as we know  that, we are taking a step in the right direction, then  it is okay.  Obviously, I like to look for bigger and  better things and end up coming here, so hopefully  these kind of close matches will start, you know, start  coming my way a little bit more.   
 

Q.  Michael, you said after your game against  Wally Masur that you thought God wanted you to win.  How do you see it after today's game?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Well, I feel God has his timetable in  everything.  I would never have guessed that going into the French Open in '89 to expect to win it.  I have had  my fair share of ups and downs and wins and losses - as  everybody else has - on and off the court.  I just feel  that everything is very much set in his time.  A lot of  times we don't necessarily know why things happen the  way that they do.  But I believe that there is a reason  for everything, and a lot of times -- sometimes through  losses, for example, you are able to gain knowledge and  mature as a person, and a lot of good things can come  from losing, as well as a lot of good things can come  from winning as well.  But I think you lose -- when you  lose, you learn a lot more.  I think it is all in the process of becoming  a better tennis player and the process of becoming a  better person.  Because I think in life - I think you  can't expect to go through life winning all the time.  If you are winning all the time and you have that first  loss and you are not able to handle it, then you are on  your way to a serious downfall.  I feel that God has really been building me  up step by step, and in his time, is in his time.  It  is not for me to really try to mend and discover, but I  know that I have to do my part.  I have to constantly  try to keep working hard and keep trying to progress in  my tennis career and work on those things that I need      to work on, and that I know I can improve and solidify  those points in my game that that are my strong  points.   
 

Q.  Thank you.   

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT