COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 8, 1993
Michael Chang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Michael, you seem to be making a habit from  coming back 1-4 down in the final set of this  tournament?  

MICHAEL CHANG:  I have had my fair share of being up in those  situations as well.  I lost two tough matches in  Frankfurt that way.  I was up a set, 4-1, a set 3-1.  I  lost both of those matches, so, you know, what comes  around goes around.  Wally was down 5-0 in the U.S. Open as well,  so I think he has had his fair share.  


Q.  Michael, can you just give your opinion of  Wally's performance today?  

MICHAEL CHANG:  It is tough for me to evaluate Wally's game  because I haven't played him since '89.  It has been  quite awhile, and I know that Wally over the past year  or so has really started to kick in his game quite  well.  I know that he is approaching his late twenties  and people are saying, you know, how come all of a  sudden in your late twenties you are starting to play  your best tennis.  He says I don't know; maybe it is  like wine or something.  But Wally, over the last couple of years, I  think obviously everybody noticed that he has gotten a  lot stronger.  He has really worked on his strength,  and I think that that has helped him out quite a bit on  Tour, because the guys are hitting harder and faster,  and he is able to combat that with just a lot of  physical strength.  But other than that, today was a pretty tight  match; really could have gone either way, so -- other  than that, it is tough for me to evaluate him because I  haven't played him for so long.  


Q.  Michael, can you comment on your feeling and  thoughts on 1993 for yourself, and what would be your  main goal for 94?  

MICHAEL CHANG:  Well, I think that, you know, '93  titles-wise, I think was very positive.  Five titles in  one year for me is my best ever, and although the  majority of them were smaller tournaments, I think that  is a pretty good accomplishment, I think whenever you  can win five titles.  I'd like to, for next year, obviously I'd  like to boost up my Grand Slam record; you know, the  past couple of years it hasn't been all that great.  So  looking for bigger and better things particularly in  the Grand Slams just because I haven't done all that  well.  I think I am approaching that particular time  in my career where hopefully I will be approaching my  best tennis soon, and I'd like to be able to peak well  for the Grand Slams and be able to play my best tennis  during those particular times, as well as throughout  the rest of the year, when I can, but I think that what  is nice at the moment is this is the last tournament of  the year for me and to go back home and enjoy the  Christmas season and holidays and stuff, and put in  some serious time training and get ready for the  following year physically and mentally and spiritually  and every other way, because it, you know, the whole  year is more or less kind of a grind.  A lot of times  it is who is able to last a little bit longer than the  other guy.  And, you know, it is just -- that is just  about it.  But '94, I want to do better in the Grand  Slams.  


Q.  Michael, what do you think of the new format  of the Davis Cup that they are working on?  

MICHAEL CHANG:  The new format?  


Q.  Yeah, with four groups, round robin.  

MICHAEL CHANG:  That is the first that I have heard of it.  I  didn't know that; I didn't know that they were planning  to change it.  


Q.  It is a discussion point.  

MICHAEL CHANG:  It is a discussion -- well, I think it could  possibly pose a few problems; the reason being is that,  you know, when you have a round robin, obviously you  are going to have to play a few more ties during the  year and, you know, the schedule at the moment is so  tight that it is just difficult to, you know, find time  to balance between the resting and practicing and  preparing for the next tournament, and I think that,  you know, although Davis Cup is a particularly great  event for the players, I think it will eventually take  its toll on the players physically and probably  mentally, because it takes away the few, you know,  quite a few more weeks, you know, of their time, and I  don't know how guys would necessarily feel about that;  especially if they know that they are going to play  every single tie.  I think that the players are pretty pleased  with the way that the World Team Cup is run in  Dusseldorf, you know; I think Mr. Klosterkemper does a  great job there, and that is a round robin format, but  that is done in one day, each tie, and it works out  well because the players are able to get in a lot of  tough matches, a lot of practice facilities and stuff  like that, but Davis Cup, what makes it so special, you  go into another country or you are staying in your own  country to play.  I think if you were able to play in  just one central location, I think it would give  certain countries an advantage.  Obviously, you know, I  wouldn't suspect that if the U.S. were to play Germany  in Germany, I don't think you would hear that Germany  -- the Germans saying "Go USA," in a round robin  thing.  It is -- I think it is too difficult time-wise  and mentally and physically for the guys.  


Q.  Michael, is it true that you are not playing  the Australian Open and if so, for what reason?  

MICHAEL CHANG:  I haven't signed up to play the Australian  open, but things, you know, things can change, but at  the moment I am not on the list to play.  


Q.  Any particular reason?  

MICHAEL CHANG:  Just like to take a little bit more time off,  more or less.  Tie it into Christmas and New Years, I  am playing Jakarta which is the week before the  Australian Open to defend my title there.  Other than  that, I would just like to have a little bit more time  at home and celebrate Christmas a little bit longer,  because we have got quite a few relatives coming over  and more or less, it is just going to be a big  Christian party more or less.  I have a lot of Bible  study and sing a lot of prayer songs and share a lot  just what has been going on the past year and what  people have been learning and stuff like that.  That,  to me, I don't get a chance to do that all that often  during the year, so just like to take a little bit more  time to do those things and give myself a little bit  more time to prepare for the upcoming year.  


Q.  Thank you, Michael.  

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT