ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 18, 1993
Michael Chang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Mixed emotions overall about the tournament?  You played really well, but you ended with only one  victory?  

MICHAEL CHANG:  Yeah, I had first come over in '89 and had a  little bit -- I was missing out a little bit, and last  couple of years, I think that I have made pretty good  progress to get back on the top 10 and get back in the  top 8.  I think that is a good sign.  I think that when  I am able to have consistent play throughout the year  and to come here and to play well, come up a little bit  short means you got to work a little bit harder, get a  little bit stronger and come back next year a better  player, and that is really about it.  Just keep  striving for bigger and better things.  


Q.  What do you think happened to you in the last  few matches?  You played wonderfully and in command.  You lapsed a little bit.  What happened?  

MICHAEL CHANG:  I think it was a little bit of a lapse.  I  think today was a little bit different.  I think Andre  was really - I think I was in pretty good control  throughout the whole match.  I think from then on out,  Andre was just smacking everything, just going for  everything, and things started to fall in, and I think  from there I started to play a little bit more  tentative, and wasn't attacking him as well, and you  know, wasn't making the most of my opportunities  because I was really doing well for the first set and a  half.  I think it was pretty much, you know, one-sided  from there, and I think I backed off a little bit and  against Andre, if you back up a little bit and your  ball starts sitting a little bit, he is able to take  advantage of that, and, you know, he is not going to  miss as much and he is going to hit more winners.  That  is really what happened today, so --  


Q.  You were a teenage phenomenon yourself.  What  do you make of his progress in his future after playing  him today?  

MICHAEL CHANG:  I think Andre has a very good future.  He has  a very good game for all surfaces.  I think when he  first came on tour people regarded him, more or less,  just as a clay court player, and I think that he has  proven that he is able to play on some of the faster  surfaces and took him a little bit of time, but I think  he is getting used to it.  He knows that a few  adjustments that he has to make, and I think that if he  works on a few more things, I think he can really  establish himself as a Top 10 player, and you can only  go higher.  We will have to wait and see how he does and  how he handles certain things.  When you progress as a  teenager and on the tour, I think that the pressures  start mounting coming from different directions and  stuff that -- and that plays a part in your tennis  career results-wise; that will be important to see how  Andre handles that.  If he handles it well, he can only  get better.  


Q.  He said he was lucky today.  Do you think so?  

MICHAEL CHANG:  I don't believe in luck.  I think there is a  reason for everything and a purpose for everything,  and, you know, I have been in similar situations, and I  have gotten out of it, and so there is a plan for  everything.  God has his plan, and today I felt a  little bit short, and Andre was able to take advantage  of that and hang tough, which is really what he did  today.  Yeah, so I don't think it was lucky.  I don't  believe in that.  


Q.  How do you like this tournament?  Is it a  challenge for you?  

MICHAEL CHANG:  Well, I think every tournament is a challenge  for me; reason being, is that I think to a point,  especially the tournaments that tend to favor serve and  volleyers as the bigger players, I found that those are  a much greater challenge for me than some of the other  events.  I feel that, you know, when I come into a  tournament like that, people kind of, in a sense, you  know, don't give me the chant type-of-thing, to go out  and to do well or to actually win a tournament like  that, and, you know, I think that that creates, in me,  a willingness to go out and work harder and to do well  in those particular events.  That is one of the reasons  why if given the choice of any Grand Slam, that I would  want to win, would be Wimbledon because of that  challenge; because of that, that feeling that serve and  volleyers, big players dominate.  I am the type of  person that you know, like the David and Goliath type  of story, where I like to be-- I like to be able to  come out on top to be a little guy, that is why one of  the reasons why I was for Ivander Holyfield (Phonetic)  in the fight with Riddick Bo (PH), so I think that  still little guys-- you can't count out the little guy,  by all means, especially you know, especially when he  knows who is in control, so.  


Q.  You needed a parachutist tonight?  

MICHAEL CHANG:  No, I don't think that Ivander won that fight  because of the parachutist.  I think that you know, he  knew where his strength was coming from and I know  where my strength is coming from and that is very, very  important to both of us because both of us are very  devote Christians and it gives me more willingness to  go out and to fight.  I think there is a reason why I  am 5 foot 9 and the rest of the field is over six  feet.  There is a reason for that, and there are a few  times where I am going to fall, but I just got to keep  my head up and keep getting up and if I fall down again  just keep getting up.  You know, that -- everything is  going to be fine, basically.  I know that I head in the  right direction and know that I have to keep trying to  improve; not get discouraged; not just kind of just  quit because guys are bigger, because they can hit  harder or whatever.  That is the challenge.  Life is no  fun if you can't live up to those challenges.  If you  don't have challenges, what is there to constantly try  to improve or try to achieve?  It is through those  challenges, through those goals that you place for  yourself that you become better; become better as a  person, for me as a player, you know, for you guys as  reporters, and, you know, doing your job that you  progress in your life as well.  


Q.  Are you five foot nine?  In our back, it is  5' 8".  

MICHAEL CHANG:  How tall are you?  


Q.  One meters 72.  I am 5' 8".  

MICHAEL CHANG:  I am 5' 9", at least, with shoes.  


Q.  Would you care to comment on the book  incident?  

MICHAEL CHANG:  Well, it must have been a pretty good book up  to the point of 5-3, I guess.  I am not -- Jim was in a  little bit of a weird mood last night, I think.  You  know, every now and then everybody gets in those  moods.  Why he brought out the book, I don't know.  Either it was a really good book.  I know that Jim  reads also before his matches, just to try to calm  himself down; other players listen to soft music.  Other players listen to hard rock music.  Everybody has  their little way of relaxing and getting your mind off  things, and coming out here and playing in Frankfurt it  can be very tense.  Not just because of the opponent on  the other side of the court, but also because of the  crowd and the circumstances and you know, a lot of  outside things involved, so I think that when you are  doing things-- when you are having your own routine, it  helps to put things in proper perspective.  


Q.  Did you ever read anything on court on the  changeovers?  

MICHAEL CHANG:  No, because I think it is very easy sometimes  in that situation to get sidetracked in what you are  doing.  For me, I found that throughout my whole career  and junior career and the whole thing, I found that I  felt that there was always something that I needed to  concentrate on and changeovers.  Those were the times  where I really gave myself a lot of time to think,  because other than that, in between the points, you  have got like 25 seconds, 30 seconds; if you are not  tallying off and adjusting your strings or doing  something or getting ready, you don't have time to  think about what you need to do - if you need to play a  certain player a particular way to his forehand or  backhand or whatever, those are the times that you can  collect your thoughts about what he is doing right;  what you are doing right; what he is doing wrong and  what you are doing wrong. And know what you need to do  out there in order to come out on top.  


Q.  Does Jim seem okay to you these days or does  he seem like he is having a little trouble?  

MICHAEL CHANG:  He seems okay to me.  I am not that close to  him on a personal basis.  So you know, he seems okay to  me.  I mean, all the players are pretty much having  breakfast there and he is talking with everybody and  everyone is talking together and he seems pretty okay.  I know he has been struggling the last couple of  months, but normally toward the end of the year it is--  sometimes could be a little bit exhausting, and Jim has  really done well early part of the year, so he knows  that this one pretty much is his last tournament.  I do  not think he has entered the Grand Slam Cup, so he  knows that this is it.  


Q.  'till January.  

MICHAEL CHANG:  'till the upcoming Australian Open, and you  know, everybody handles it differently, so --  


Q.  Thanks.  

MICHAEL CHANG:  Okay.  


Q.  Thank you.  

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT