ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 17, 1993
Michael Chang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Michael, did you feel you were playing Stich  or Germany?  

MICHAEL CHANG:  Just Michael.  


Q.  Were you aware of how good a match it was?  

MICHAEL CHANG:  Well, that really wasn't totally my concern.  My job out there is not to make a good match.  My job  out there is to go out and try to win the match.  I  much rather win a match than have to lose a match and  have it be a great match.  So, yeah.  


Q.  You were wearing a brace?  Do you have a  problem with your back?  

MICHAEL CHANG:  No.  Just the weather is cold outside, so I  think when the weather is cold anywhere, muscles tend  to stiffen up a little bit.  Just to keep things warm.  


Q.  Michael, everything was going your way.  Certainly the first set and you were very strong in the  second.  What made the difference?  What happened?  

MICHAEL CHANG:  Well, I think the 3-1 game was a very  critical game.  I know I had one doublefault and one  loose forehand, and I think that was the major  difference in probably winning or losing the second  set.  I think if I would have held on to that service  break, it would have been a different story.  The  tiebreak was really close.  I had an opportunity to --  you know, a few points here and there made a difference  in the tiebreaker.  I had an unfortunate volley in the  net.  I had an open court and I missed that one.  And I  missed the first point.  I think I missed a forehand as  well.  And that, when it comes down to a tiebreaker  here and there, I guess the best player in the world--  it is going to come down to one or two points.  So,  yeah.  


Q.  Michael, general question, at end of the year  ATP will give its review of the year in a couple of  days time to us.  Is there anything in general that you  feel is not working with the ATP Tour?  

MICHAEL CHANG:  Well, I think that as far as the ATP Tour is  concerned, a lot of the things that the top players  have, you know, felt that a few things should be  changed, you know, we have voiced our opinion to the  ATP, to Mark Miles, and to Weller Evans and a few  people on the board at Cincinnati.  That was the place  where all the players got together, I think, except for  Boris.  We got a chance to voice our opinion on a few  things.  We will see if the ATP actually takes action  on it.  If -- yeah, so we will leave it at that.  We  will see what happens next year.  


Q.  One or two big issues or --  

MICHAEL CHANG:  Well, I think the big issue partly had to do  with last year being that, you know, Courier winning,  you know, two Grand Slams and still having his No. 1  ranking in jeopardy and all the players felt that that  was something that really shouldn't happen.  And they  are working on a few of the points for Grand Slams and  I think that when a player is able to win two of the  four and no one else comes close to doing that, you  know, I don't think that their ranking should be in  jeopardy.  I think all the top players feel that way as  well.  


Q.  How do you see your future in this  tournament?  

MICHAEL CHANG:  Well, I think that it depends on a lot of  factors.  Obviously, for me, it is still trying to  concentrate on each point.  Andre, to me, is going to  be a tough match and I think that Michael and Courier  is going to be another tough match.  I don't think that  Courier has a very good record against Michael and  things -- you never know what can happen.  So for me,  my goal here is to just keep concentrating on what I  have been concentrating on and try to keep focused and  don't let one loss get to me, or affect my game for the  rest of the tournament, in my play, so, yeah.  


Q.  Thank you.  

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT