ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 16, 1993
Michael Chang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Michael, is that the best you have played  against him?  

MICHAEL CHANG:  I am sorry.  Who is talking?  John.  


Q.  Yes.  

MICHAEL CHANG:  I think probably one of them.  Jim and I have  had a lot of tough matches and over the past year or  so, I think he got the-- he won quite a few more than I  did.  But I think that tonight everything seemed to go  pretty well for me.  So it worked out well.  


Q.  You seemed to be serving with a lot more  potency.  

MICHAEL CHANG:  It is something -- service has been something  Carl and I have been working on over the past couple of  years.  Try to get a few more free points on my own  service games.  I think it was to the point where it  was just difficult having to work so hard for each  point on your own serve and then you play a guy who was  able to pop in four aces or four service winners - a  little bit frustrating - and, you know, we felt that it  was something that, you know, we could do something  about.  Get a little bit stronger and just spend a  little bit more time on it.  I think by no means a  Goran serve or anything like that, but, you know, I am  just trying to continue to work at it 'till it can get  better and better.  


Q.  Have you been unable to get those early three  breakpoints, the fifth game, does that make you even  more determined till the next ones come along?  

MICHAEL CHANG:  Well, I think that most of the time you try  to capitalize whenever you can.  Obviously that was a  great opportunity for me to get that break and Jim  played three good points to get it back to deuce, and I  think he got-- you have got to give credit where credit  is due and I think that-- especially against a lot of  the top players, you are not going to have a whole lot  of you -- you try to make the most of any chance or any  opening that you might have.  


Q.  But you looked even more pumped up when the  next round came around.  

MICHAEL CHANG:  Thank you.  


Q.  Michael, up to 4-All, you weren't really  locked in it.  He was pretty playing well.  What  grounded it.  What happened?  

MICHAEL CHANG:  Be honest with you, I don't remember that the  ninth game, I don't know.  All I remember is I got the  break, that was --  


Q.  Nine games in a row.  I mean that was a  fundamental change, obviously, had come over the  match.  

MICHAEL CHANG:  Well, I don't think any drastic change.  I  think that, you know, I tried to continue to play the  way that I came in, you know, playing, and you know, I  tried to really stay focused on what I needed to do out  there and basically what I needed to concentrate on and  try not to let anything, you know, distract me or  anything to get my mind off the job, and, you know, it  worked out well for me.  I think the important thing was that after  the first set I didn't have any kind of let-down or  let-up.  I think against guys like Jim or anybody here,  you know, you can't let anybody creep back in there.  Guys are just too good nowadays and they will take  advantage of any opening that they can get.  To come  back and beat you - and Jim obviously has the  capability of doing that, so it was something that I  tried to really concentrate on.  


Q.  You said things worked out for you.  It seems  an understatement given the way you played.  Do you not  feel that you were pretty close to your peak?  

MICHAEL CHANG:  Well, I still feel that, you know, for me I  feel I have still have so many things to improve on in  my game that, you know, I feel that, you know, I feel  that I can still play better tennis.  I still have a  lot of room in my game for improvement.  There is  nothing in my game that is so solid that I can rely on  day in, day out to win matches.  It is something that I  have to keep working at - each part of my game and a  lot of the intangibles.  You know, sometimes a lot of  the shots that, you know, are not ordinary shots often  turn out to be some very crucial points.  I plan to  work on -- by no means should I be satisfied with  having one match, having played well in one match,  because this is an event where you have got to play a  handful of matches and I play some solid tennis in  order to come out on top.  


Q.  Michael, that first point was wild.  Is there  such a thing as after making a shot like that, on the  very first point, that you realize this could be your  night?  

MICHAEL CHANG:  No, not really.  I think that obviously that  was a good boost for me.  But I have had matches, good  example is in L.A., the final in L.A..  I won the first  set 6-0 against Richard Krajicek and I might have had  that attitude a little bit, after the first set, things  are going great; this is my day.  And ended up I lost  7-6, 7-6 in the second and third sets without losing my  serve, so, I think that-- I think that throughout a  match at this level and these matches here, you are  going to see a lot of the great shots from both sides  and I don't think that, if one shot happened to be a  sign of things to come, I think that people would be  seeing too many signs, so, you know, by all means, if a  point like that was worth 10 points or something, then  it is something to talk about, but if it is only worth  one point, so, it is the same as if Jim hits an error  so to speak.  I don't know if you see it my way, but --  


Q.  Michael did you ever talk to Tom about Davis  Cup?  

MICHAEL CHANG:  A little bit.  Tom, I think, talked to just  about all the players.  He came over in Paris and sat  down with, I think, just about everybody, and you know,  I think he is still a little bit up in the air as far  as what surface India is going to choose.  But I think  he has got a pretty good feel for the players and how  they feel on Davis Cup in particular ties, so we will  see what he has in store.  


Q.  Would you agree to play?  

MICHAEL CHANG:  As far as for India, I told Tom that I would  take a pass on India.  The reason being is that India  most likely will choose grass and my feeling on grass  would be the same as a tie with Australia.  I think  that you have got a couple of players-- a few players  still better on grass than me.  So maybe in a couple of  years time, I will try to improve my grasscourt game  and we will see what happens.  


Q.  Is there a special feeling in winning your  first match here?  

MICHAEL CHANG:  It feels different.  I think that you know  for me it is easier to come here.  I have no  expectations.  I have lost six matches here in the  finals before.  I have everything-- nothing to lose and  everything to gain,  so by all means,  for me, go swing  away and concentrate and give your best.  I have no  outside pressures or anything, no expectations, so it  is easier.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT