ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 15, 1993
Michael Chang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  The crowd in Beijing, you had great action,  from what is going on out there.  Some kind of mission  (inaudible) --  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I think over the years tennis is really  starting to boom.  I think that looking at the  tournaments on the ATP Tour; especially this year,  quite a few popping up that are new to my region.  Actually Osaka, Beijing, I think that tennis in this  region is great.  Over the last few years for so long  they haven't been really exposed to tennis.  I think  that --   
 

Q.  You must be aware that (inaubible) --  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I think that probably has to do with it.  I  think being Asian in a sport where there are just so  few Asians, I think it is something that is kind of  unique.  Probably that is the reason why I try to take  advantage of going to Asia whether it is playing  exhibition (inaudible)--   
 

Q.  How do you extend that (inaudible)--  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I think that is part of it.  It is important  to be a positive influence to people.  I think that  that is part of the world that I can relate to quite  well and --   
 

Q.  Will you ever play for China?  Is that a  possibility?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Play for China, you mean like in Davis Cup?   
 

Q.  Yeah.  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I don't think so.  I don't think that is a  possibility.  I am sure that is something where even  (inaudible)--   
 

Q.  Have they asked you to play?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  No, not particularly, but I am little  familiar with one particular Chinese player, I  eventually played him in Hong Kong, I run into him here  and there sometimes.  He is a pretty good player.   
 

Q.  He might be a prospect?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I think that players, in general, I think  over in Asia really have to kind of go out and give  tennis a try, because you look at some of the greats  ping pong players, they are all Asian.  Swedes started  to pick it up more and more, but past few years,  champions are from the Asian region, so it is such a  similar game to them, those two, something that can  work for them and I think that in a sense that being of  the same stature, maybe a little bit smaller and tennis  is still quite possible to play even if you are small.  I mean, I think it is a positive influence for them and  that is part of what I like to do.   
 

Q.  (inaudible)  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I think that there aren't too many places  that tennis hasn't hit yet in the world.  I think the  next one quite possibly will come through from Asia.  I  am sure that they all definitely in the process of  working on it.   
 

Q.  (inaudible)?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I have only got one way to go.  My record  here and the past has not been that great, but from my  standpoint I can only improve on it.   
 

Q.  (inaudible)  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I think you have to make a few minor  adjustments, but coming here couple of days early, I  thinks helped me out.  Getting used to the court.  Getting used to the single line tennis courts, and I  figure it will be not much of a problem.  It is a  little bit slower than last year.  I think the players  were complaining.  It was too fast last year were the  complaints.  Medium, fast pace surface and I think it  is going to be -- it will be good for the tournament.   
 

Q.  (inaudible)  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Yeah, not too much, just here and there, only  serve and volley I have really done this year would  have been -- other than that, just trying to  concentrate on certain things in my game.   
 

Q.  Very tough (inaudible) --  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I think-- tomorrow I play against Jim.  Jim  always tends to gear up for the big events.  I am sure  that he is out playing real well.  Playing some very  good tennis and really -- you have the top eight  players in the world.  You have got to come out and be  ready to play.  That is about it.  There are going to  be a lot of tight matches and a lot of tight points.  You have to expect that from these players.   
 

Q.  Michael Stich?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I think Michael is going to be actually quite  an experience to play.  I think that it is great to --  I feel whenever I can play someone in their home  country that they can feel, more or less, they have a  certain amount of enthusiasm, certain amount of form  coming in and sensitive to the crowd and the players,  obviously Michael has done very, very well in Germany  and tournaments and I look forward to playing him this  week and, you know, I expect most of the crowd to be on  his side for the whole tournament, whoever he plays,  but he is going to be a tough player to beat.   
 

Q.  Andrei?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I think Andrei has made his mark this year.  He is not so much as a clay court player and I think  that being -- I think it is going to be very  interesting throughout the whole week; see if I can  play my best tennis day in day out.   
 

Q.  (inaudible)  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Crowd plays a really important role.  Carl  has done a great job.  I think we started to work  together after Carl graduated from college.  It has  been working well.  I feel that my game is improving  and I feel that I am gradually making progress and Carl  knows that I am heading in the right direction, as far  as my game is concerned, the main thing is to -- Carl  has enabled me to accomplish that.  It has been working  well.   
 

Q.  Special ( inaudible)  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Not particularly.  I think there are a lot of  shops around the hotel.  I think-- it is-- walked  around; taken a look.   
 

Q.  (inaudible)--  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I like anything that has to do with animals.  I enjoy watching shows about animals and their  particular behavior and stuff, and that is really about  it.  I more or less like to interest in animals.   
 

Q.  When you do think about what you did in Asia  this year, you got to be pretty proud.  What is in your  mind?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I think it is-- obviously, it has been very,  very positive for me and I hope for tennis and in  Asia.  This year actually was the first year I have won  a tournament in Asia, so I think that to have somebody  -- it has been very, very positive for me and I hope  for tennis in Asia.  This year actually was the first  year that I have won a tournament in Asia.  I think  that to have so many tournaments pop out this year in  the Asian region was -- I hope that it will better the  sport.   
 

Q.  (inaudible)--  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  It is quite possible, but there are a lot of  players out there, I think, who are capable of doing  that.  I think that tennis, when there is a lot of  competition and a lot of tough matches, that makes the  sport more interesting and that makes the sport -- I  think it is better for the sport.  So I think that -- I  think that-- I think I have been good for a particular  reason.  I want to take advantage of that.   
 

Q.  (inaudible)  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I am okay.  I am all right.   
 

Q.  (inaudible)  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I think I have made an adjustment this year.  Last year everybody, I think including Goran, was  saying that the court was too fast.  The only person  that didn't say it was fast was Boris.  Boris won the  tournament saying it was slow.  So this particular week I would say it is  more a medium fast surface.  I think, you know, being  indoor-- I think indoors, it's a little bit easier to  serve and volley, but I think at this particular time  of year, you are not going to find anyplace in the  world that you are going to play outdoors, but I think  that Frankfurt is still a very good place to play the  finals - a lot of great crowds and a lot of good  coverage and I think they do a very good job here in  Frankfurt.  The surface is something-- you get to this  point, you can't say well, go change the surface or  something.  You just have to make the adjustments.   
 

Q.  (inaudible) --  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  It is something that you just have to deal  with.  For me, I looked at it more as I have had  success on indoor surfaces, you know, the previous  years, and by no means am I afraid to play against the  big boys here on any kind of fast surface.  It is  something that you kind of got to go out and stand up  and fight.  I think it would probably make a little bit  of a dent.   
 

Q.  (inaudible)  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  The schedule, because you have certain  particular events, certain particular parts of times of  the year where you have indoor, hard court, clay and  stuff, and I think the clay courters really don't mind  if they -- there are so many clay court tournaments  throughout the whole year just about, so you know, I  don't think that that really should -- is too much of  an option.  I think it was very difficult to maintain  an indoor clay court.  It did, in fact, in the finals,  Davis Cup in St. Petersburg, I know that they had a few  difficulties in smoothing the court surface down and  without getting a lot of holes and guys digging in with  their feet, so I think overall, just a matter of  finding the right indoor surface.  There have been a  lot of indoors surfaces that have been medium surfaces  that have been good for all players.  I am not  complaining this week.  I think it is a good surface  and you know, I think it is -- you have got to have a  positive attitude toward the whole thing.  Not that  anybody is at a disadvantage, but look at the  advantages that you have in your own game.   
 

Q.  (inaudible)  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  My clothes are too big.  Didn't fit.   
 

Q.  (inaudible)  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Last year they got everyone else -- the  clothes mixed up, but mine was just right.  I am only  five foot nine.  I am the smallest guy.  Normally --  (inaudible).   
 

Q.  Last year, Frankfurt it, was lucky for you  --.  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Lucky?   
 

Q.  Yeah.  (inaudible)  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I think there is a reason for everything, but  I don't feel --I think in order to qualify for this  particular event, you have to play well throughout the  whole year.  I don't think that you can get in by just  having a good result at a Grand Slam.  I think Pioline  is a good example getting in the final of the U.S. Open  and not making it here in Frankfurt.  You have got to  be very consistent throughout the year and you have to  be able to play well against all the players, and I  don't feel that it is, by all means, luck.  I don't  think that any players are here because they were  lucky.  I think as far as the last few spots, I think  few points here and there could have made a difference,  but I think all those players were still very, very  capable of coming here to Frankfurt and doing some  damage.   
 

Q.  (inaudible)  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I'd say looking at points wise and results  wise probably was-- probably was Cincinnati.  I think  to be -- to beat Agassi and Edberg in the semis and  finals, I think as far as players and points and level  of tournament, that was probably one of my best  result.   
 

Q.  (inaudible)  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I think my best result this year for a Grand  Slam has been the U.S. Open.  I enjoy each particular  Grand Slam -- I enjoy playing Wimbledon.  I haven't  done as well last couple of years, but I still enjoy  playing it.  I think overall, I'd say that the U.S.  Open has been working well last couple of years.   
 

Q.  Surface not too quick for you?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  No.   
 

Q.  You like Wimbledon?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I like Wimbledon.  I think that I just have  to continue to work on my game and I think that Courier  and Agassi have shown the last couple of years that you  can play some good grasscourt tennis from the back.  I  think that was very encouraging, and this particular  year, I spent Wimbledon serve and volleying throughout  the whole tournament.  A little bit unfortunate in the  third round there; I had a tough match, but I think  that it can only help me to improve my game.   
 

Q.  What is your plan in the future in the next  year after Frankfurt?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Come back in two weeks and play the Grand  Slam Cup and we will take the rest of the year off.  Starting next year, I think my first tournament is  Jakarta.   
 

Q.  Your match against --  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I think Jim obviously plays very well in the  big events and this year in the Grand Slams I think  that is pretty evident.  I think that tomorrow it is  going to be a tough match.  I don't think there are any  easy matches here this week, and, you know, I think the  last time I played Jim was in Rome on clay.  I lost to  him in three sets, but I think that all the matches  will be tough here and all the matches will be close.   
 

Q.  What do you think about the surface?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Medium, fast, speed wise.  It will do.   
 

Q.  Just in case you are playing Goran.  Because  he said that he expected you in the semi finals  (inaudible).  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I have never played Goran in the semis.  I  think of another-- whenever you can play against  someone that has got a lot of flare, a lot of  personality, character, I think it is fun and it is  good and I think that, you know, I have had a lot of  tough matches with Goran over the last couple of years  and I have had a lot of tough matches.  If I were to  play Goran in the semis, that will be great.   
 

Q.  When will you be No. 1?
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Well, I'd like to -- I'd like to reach No. 1  before my career is over.  As far as a timetable, I  think it is tough to say a timetable if it is going to  be next year or the following year or when or if ever,  so my concern at the moment is just to concentrate;  constantly improve my game; concentrate; try to become  the best that I can be, and from there, everything else  is taken care of.   
 

Q.  What do you think about the change in the No.  1, the timing -- (inaudible)  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I think it will be faster.  The reason being  is that I think the level of tennis now compared to ten  years ago is much greater, the depth of men's tennis is  much deeper and I think that now you have so many  players who are capable of going out and winning the  big tournaments; capable of winning the Grand Slam  tournaments.  I think maybe ten years ago maybe you  only had maybe like a handful.  Now you have got two  handfuls, and I think it will change much more often  than maybe ten years ago.   
 

Q.  Any plans while you are here?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  As far as going out and seeing things,  anything like that, no.  I think that when you come to  this point of the year, really -- (inaudible).   
 

Q.  (inaudible)   
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I don't think so.  Maybe some of the other  players, maybe, but I think if you ask yourself you  will be all right (inaudible).  This week, I think when  you come to this level in the year, and you have only  got one week to come out and play against the best  players in the world, concentrate, you know, to me, at  least, I come out here and concentrate.   
 

Q.  (inaudible) what is the things that goes  through your (inaudible)--  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  For me I am so busy anyways.  It is tough to  find time to go out and do so many things.  You have  got to play a match that particular day, or if you  don't play that particular day, you are getting and you  practice and you go eat lunch; then you come back and  practice again.  All the rest of the day is gone  already.  Not a whole lot of time.  I think that there  is a chance to come to Frankfurt to just come and see  the sites.  I think there is plenty of time to do that  back at the tournaments.   
 

Q.  (inaudible)  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I don't endorse anything I don't believe in.   
 

Q.  Speaking about fishing (inaudible)--  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I am not that informed about particular  companies.  Maybe I don't know if you are referring to  this event or not, but I am not too familiar with that  and as far as sponsorship goes for a particular  tournament, the players have no say as far as  sponsorship for a particular tournament, you know, they  only have a say if they want to be endorsed by that  particular company or product.  But the players-- other  players may think differently.  For me, I don't endorse  anything I don't believe in, and that is me as-- it is  very important to me, and probably because I am a  devoted Christian, so I like to keep my -- I like to  keep certain values and certain morals.  So --   
 

Q.  What I meant, my point -- (inaudible) --  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  She hasn't been travelling as much as she did  the last two years.  Hopefully we will find a good  enough Chinese restaurant and eat there.  We played so  many tournaments in Asia this year that Chinese food  and Japanese food was pretty good, so --   
 

Q.  (inaudible)  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I try to play what I can.  It has worked out  well.   
 

Q.  (inaudible)  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I have played a few doubles.  We haven't done  that great.   
 

Q.  (inaudible)  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I hope so.  I think that tennis in China  particularly is starting to, I think, grow little by  little.  I think a tournament like Beijing, I think, it  will only help to encourage that growth.  I think most  of the tennis that they have received over the past  years have more or less been through TV and I think to  have a tournament in Beijing is a good start.  Hopefully, we will see a few more coming into China in  the fairly near future.   
 

Q.  (inaudible)  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I think it is nice to have a very good  reception there.  I think for me, in particular, I  think it is nice to be able to come back and to see  kind of where your roots are and to go into to mingle  with people and I think it is something special, I  think to go back and see what life is like there and  try to relate to them as much as you can, and know  though, try to be an influence in their lives.  I think  it is very good.   
 

Q.  (inaudible)  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  We play periodically.  We also played in a  few tournaments here and there, but more or less just  for fun and doubles for me is not a major concern.  A  lot of it for me is just to get practice; a little bit  serve and volley returns, and get used to the court.  It is not going to be a thing that I have been trying  to do every tournament.  Here and there I think it is  okay.   
 

Q.  Do you think you can repeat your victory?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I hope so.  Clay is not one of my favorite  surface.  I think when I won Roland Garros in 89,  winning it was a very positive experience for me.  I  always would like to go back and win it again.  Before  my year is over, I'd like to be able to hopefully win  each Grand Slam at least once.  So it is something that  I am working on and all I can do is try to improve my  game and come back each time a better player.   
 

Q.  (inaudible)  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Give myself a little bit more time to rest.  Last year it was a little bit hectic for me.  Schedule  wise I played-- actually I was on the road for quite  sometime before coming here to Frankfurt.  This year I  have changed it up a little bit.  I have taken a few  more weeks off.  Hopefully that will help me out.  (inaudible)  So coming here this year I can only improve  on it.  I think that I will put the necessary practice  and preparations in to be able to come out and do well  here.  It is -- pretty much this week is all business  and trying to concentrate on doing what I know I can do  best.   
 

Q.  (inaudible)  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  For me going to Asia is more comfortable than  going to Europe.  For me, in Asia, it is very easy to  get used to the culture, custom and the food.  Here in  Europe, it is a little bit different for me.  Europe  tends to be, for me at least, a little bit --  everything is a lot closer than other parts of the  world, and it takes a little bit of getting used to.  I  still think that no place really compares to home; at  least on the face of this earth, but Asia is a good  stop for me.  It is a fun place.  It is easy for me to  go and play tennis there.   
 

Q.  I know you are very confident (inaudible)  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  As part of the -- I don't feel that it is--  for me, I don't feel that it is good to alienate the  press or the people.  In fact --   
 

Q.  (inaudible)  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I don't feel that it is necessary to alienate  them at all.  I feel that tennis, at least for me, is a  great way to touch people.  Being a devoted Christian,  part of my job is to go and reach out to people; spread  the word.  So for me, I want people to more or less,  you know, kind of be attracted in a sense, but I think  that there is still a necessary balance that each  person needs to have in their life, you know, partly to  themselves and partly go out and do your thing.  Go out  and play tennis which is what I do.  But it needs to be  a good balance where you can do both.  Because I think  that tennis you know, it is something that more or less  you are always in the spotlight, so there is different  ways of looking at it.  I try to look at the positive  side of it; allows me to reach a lot of people whether  it is people watching me on the side of the court or  watching the television.  I think that the press is  part of that.  The press is part of being able to reach  people.  I think particularly Asia, for me, it works  out well that not everybody might get to see me in  Beijing play in person, but you know, a billion people  can watch me through the TV, so it works well.  But I  think that there still needs to be a balance.   
 

Q.  (inaudible)  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I think that Beijing-- actually, I have been  there twice before to play exhibitions, but to go out  and to play tournaments is a little bit different.  Beijing, I have always received a very warm reception  from them, and from all the countries over in Asia and  that makes it all easier for me to go out and play and  to go out and concentrate and to go out and to play my  best tennis and it has worked out well this year.  Four  of my five titles have come from Asia.  Really no  complaining about that, so Beijing is a good place, I  think, this particular time around.  I think that they  have actually kind of loosened things up a little bit,  and I think it was good for the people and I think it  was good for the press; for the players.   
 

Q.  (inaudible)  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I have in the past.  Chance to look around a  little bit.  I got to see the Summer Palace, but I  think when the tournament came around, really more or  less wasn't time to do much, much else than to  practice; work out; play my match and prepare for the  next match, so I want to be able to come out and to  give my best tennis.  Obviously, tennis was my first  priority in Beijing to go out and to do well.   
 

Q.  Fish (inaudible)  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Three, four years.  Yeah, it is a little bit  difficult.  I don't get as good a response as I  normally would get if I was home.  I think a lot of  things that need to be, you know, concerned about as  far as when keeping them is one thing; when you are  breeding them is another, because you have to watch  them - level of nitrate, ph level, the water quality.  You have to watch what they eat.  If there are any  sicknesses, some fish, if you feed them a particular  kind of food they get sick and die.  My fish are a  little bit difficult because a lot of them don't have  common names, so you have to go by the scientific name  for them.  They are fresh water fish, all my fish,  except for one.  They come from three lakes in Africa.  They are the most colorful in the fresh water world.   
 

Q.  (inaudible)  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I like the science of it.  I like the biology  of it.  Most of my fish are what they call mouth  breeders, so the females, they hold their eggs in their  mouth until they become a baby fish, and it releases  it.  What I do in order to save more young, what I do  is take the eggs out after five days, after five days  depending on the species and the size of the egg they  hatch.  They are about five days; then you gradually  see two eyes on top of the egg and little head and  little tail and little fish and sooner or later it  grows up little by little.  I enjoy it.  I think it is  fun.  I got a few fish that the parents take care of  their babies.  Other fish, you have to separate the  young from them, otherwise they eat them.  So I feel  like it is pretty interesting.  They regard particular  territory as their home, kind of any intruders they  kick out and the male courts the female and sometimes  she rejects them and sometimes she respond.  Depends on  her mood.   
 

Q.  (inaudible)  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I have before.  I have been burned before and  I have come out okay at other times, so --   
 

Q.  (inaudible)  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I brought them as frye and they were supposed  to come out a certain-- you don't know until they  reached adult, so they are supposed to come out a  particular color and they didn't come out that way.  So  you got to be careful.   
 

Q. (inaudible)  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  You would know.  If you get into the hobby  enough, you would know where they are from.   
 

Q.  Have you been down to the lakes?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I wouldn't go down there.  Malaria, hippos,  crocodiles, a lot of things down there.  Got a lot of  war down there too, like for instance in Burundi, they  got a place, they can't get fish out of there at the  moment because the war is going on.   
 

Q.  Eventually will you go there?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  No.  Not--(inaudible).   
 

Q.  (inaudible)  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I don't think there are any tennis  tournaments down there.   
 

Q.  You never know?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  That is true, that is true.  I wouldn't go  down there just to visit the fish.  I know people who  collect them.  I can get wild specimens, so --   
 

Q.  I have a question.  When you play year by  year do you know how many exactly points you have and  how much they are going to -- how do you formulate in  your head -- how close are the points in your head?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Well, I think it is easier to calculate how  many points you have coming off because if you have won  a tournament, say, like for instance, if Boris knows  that if he doesn't do well in Paris he has got at least  somewhere around 500 points coming off because I won  last year because of the bonus point and each year  really changes as far as how many points you can gain  because sometimes the money differs.  The points are  all based on money in the tournaments, so --   
 

Q.  You got points winning Beijing.  Did you  think about that?  Is that what you are planning--  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  You think about it.  I don't think there is a  particular strategy going in as far as if you have  points to defend or not.  You still go out, at least  for me, I still go out with the same attitude of going  out and giving my best.  If you are able to defend the  title, great.  If you have lost it the previous year  and you are able to do well, great.  So you are going  to have tournaments where you are going to do well and  some tournaments where you are not going to do so well,  and you just have to schedule yourself well.   
 

Q.  (inaudible)  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Most of the players know where they are at.  They know where their points are coming from.   
 

Q.  Ever try to explain it to a layman before,  the point system?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Yeah.   
 

Q.  People can get it quickly?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  No.  More or less they don't look at the  points.  They just look at the rankings.  The thing is  sometimes the rankings bounce around a little bit, so  it is tough.  It is a little complicated.   
 

Q.  Would it be helpful for the general public if  --  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  To be honest with you, I don't know how deep  the public gets as far as points and bonus points and  that type of thing.  I think more or less what they  hear is what they know through the press.  Newspaper  might say, well, this person doesn't do well in this  tournament; then he is going to drop to this ranking  and, you know, I think that they still-- they look at  the number more than the points.  They don't look--  they look at who is 1, 2, 3 down the line; not who is  close.  At least that is what I think.   
 

Q.  (inaudible) building a suspense for tennis --  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I may be wrong but I don't think the tennis  public follows it that closely, to be honest with you.  I don't think that they would follow it that closely.  I don't think the players follow it that closely until  it gets down to the nitty gritty - like last week where  you get a few points here and there and it will  determine who is in it.  I am sure if Thomas was  playing last week, they probably -- things would have  gotten even more complicated because Thomas is only how  many points away from Goran, so --   
 

Q.  21.  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  21.  So if he played last week and did better  than his 15th last tournament, 14th last tournament,  things could have been switched around.   
 

Q.  There is other sports exist 'till the end --  (inaudible)--  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I think it is easier to follow basketball and  football than tennis.  Because tennis you have got  tournaments, so many tournaments throughout the year  and you have got so many tournaments coming out, coming  up, you know, the following year, it is a little bit  more difficult to follow.  I mean, basketball and  football, more or less, just you win, it goes in your  win column and you lose; it goes into your loss  column.  That is about it.  Just take the best teams  and they are off to the playoffs.   
 

Q.  Making it better for the general public ---  (inaudible)  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I don't know a way that could be simpler.  I  think it is kind of like maybe like golf.  Golf is just  based on points, right?   
 

Q.  Yeah.  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  So you couldn't do that with tennis, because  if you did that, you know, take a guy like Andrei who  is got like 13 tournaments, he would be ranked  somewhere like 150, versus a guy who is playing some  guy that I think somewhere around there, maybe like 32  tournaments; if you just took the total points, just  wouldn't work, so you need to have a balance somewhere  and it is tough to find that balance.  So I think they  are making a few adjustments in the ranking systems  that they have talked to the players.  Top players got  together in Cincinnati and were talking with Miles and  Weller, about what they can do with the ranking  system.  All the players felt that last year, you know,  was a little bit unfair to Jim, in particular, he won  two Grand Slams last year and his No. 1 spot was still  in jeopardy, so I think that they are going to make  that change.   
 

Q.  (inaudible)  change in the game --  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I wouldn't change a single thing to make it  better for myself.   
 

Q.  In Paris, everybody was listening because  --(inaudible)  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Goran served aces.   
 

Q.  Yes, he was serving too many aces.  Second  set he made 100% of points when he put the first serve  in, in -- the whole match was 94.  The other tournament  was 87 when he had the first service, I mean-- so the  people sometimes would get bored.  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  See, what is kind of funny is that before  awhile ago, I know people were saying that tennis was  boring because the points were too long, now it is kind  of the opposite, points are too fast.  You know, serve  an ace and that is it.  So you know, all I can say is  really to try to find a surface that is very fair for  all of the players because obviously there are so many  different styles and I think that will be good for the  general public.  If they slow down this surface here  from last year, everybody, including Goran, I think  said it was too fast last year except for Boris who won  the tournament and said it was too slow, so I think  that they made that effort and it is slower this year.   
 

Q.  How much slower is it?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Medium fast court, I would say.   
 

Q.  Last year?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Fast fast.  When you are playing Goran and  Krajicek in one group, it is fast fast.   
 

Q.  There was a Forum this morning?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  About?   
 

Q.  About fans participation, talking about how  the fan wants to join in the match.  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  In the match?   
 

Q.  Yes, and there is some plan to make for  cheering and there is some ATP talking about this  invent some method for cheering.  (inaudible) after the  point, in baseball we have some cheer leader.  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  You mean have a cheer leader for tennis?   
 

Q.  Yes.  Do you think it is a good idea?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I think in Davis Cup that is evident.  I  think in Davis Cup you do have cheer leaders, so to  speak. I think that-- I think it might be more of a  distraction for the players than anything else.  I  think a good example of this year is like Andrei  Medvedev who won the French Open; went to toss the  ball; saw a good looking girl and had to stop and look  at her.  So you know, if you were to have something  like that, I think it would be a little bit distracting  because tennis players, you know, sometimes things are  in a very tense situation and sometimes the easiest  thing will distract them either someone walking behind  or someone flash the light on the camera or somebody  whistles or somebody talks, things like that, and  sometimes in that particular time, it is very tense,  but I think that you do have that-- you do have that  when you go to certain countries.  Players have the  support from the people, so I think I don't think that  it is not necessary to have special cheer leading  section for each player, so I like Japan also just the  way it is, you know, the way --   
 

Q.  They think it is too quiet and people want--  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  You would be surprised because I think some  people when they go to Japan, they appreciate that it  is very modest, very polite.  Because they might go to  someplace else and think it is too loud and too crazy.   
 

Q.  Osaka, we are known to (inaudible)--  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Well --   
 

Q.  So maybe we need a compromise (inaudible)?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I think it is-- you just go and cheer for who  you want to cheer for as long as it is not particularly  bothersome or annoying to the other player.  I don't  think that that is -- I don't think that is wrong.  Someone is clapping and yelling because the other  person doublefaults, then that is just not knowing  proper tennis etiquette.  But I think when someone  makes a great shot and people are clapping because he  made a great shot, I think that is fine.  If they  scream and yell during the point, a little bit of a  problem.   
 

Q.  How much have you spoken with Tom Gullikson  about your participation in the Davis Cup?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Tom came down to Paris.  In fact, I think he  visited all the guys that he could, whoever was there,  I think that-- I think he was-- I heard something that  the team is going to be chosen sometime in December if  I am not mistaken, I thought.  Don't quote me on that.  But other than that, I think he is just basically  trying to find a good solid team to go down to India.   
 

Q.  How interested are you in playing that tie?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I told Tom that probably to be honest;  probably not.  Reason being is that India would mostly  choose grass and I know that there are-- my position  stands the same as far as like Australia, same  situation.  You take the best you have got on grass.   
 

Q.  You just said before that this surface is not  that fast.  Do you have the feeling that it is a good  group, Courier, Medvedev?  Medvedev has not much  experience, not much indoor success in his life and,  well, Courier, he is probably going-- the match  tomorrow is probably going to be the decisive one to be  at least second in your group.  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I think it is-- I think it is a good group  for me.  Obviously a lot of tough players in there, but  I feel that it is a good group.  Obviously I think  there is no easy matches, period.  So you have got to  play well in order to come out on top.  And obviously,  to do well this week -- to do well I have to play my  best tennis.  That is what I am trying to concentrate  on; what I am trying to hopefully do.   
 

Q.  Would you say that tomorrow is the key match  of the group?  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I say every match is key.  Every match is key  because last year I know that I lost my first two  matches and if I had beaten Courier in the third match  I would have been 1 and 2 and I would have gotten to  the semifinals, so every match is key.   
 

Q.  (inaudible)  
 
A. ' When did I start thinking about coming  here?  Probably last year after I lost.   
 

Q.  Were you afraid since Antwerp didn't accept  your wild, your request for a wildcard --  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  No.  No.  They were holding the wildcard for  me.  I didn't play.  I didn't go.   
 

Q.  Because they said yesterday that --  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  No.  I have had very good experience with ECC  tournament director and the people are very nice.  I  know that they were holding a wildcard for any of the  players who needed them.  Everyone, I think, went to  play who wanted to play, except for Boris who took a  wildcard and I believe they were holding one more for  me - if I wanted to play.  And I felt that I'd rather  take the week off and train.   
 

Q.  (inaudible)  
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Yeah, I was.  But you know, I feel like in  that situation I felt that I needed more of rest than  matches and it was in God's hands.  He wants me here, I  am here, so it worked out well, and I will try to make  the most out of this opportunity here in Frankfurt.         
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT