U.S. OPEN
September 8, 1992
Michael Chang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.   Can You describe the fourth set and how you felt during
it when you started to get your game back; really when you started
to take over that set?

 MICHAEL CHANG:  I didn't think that I started to get my game
back.  I thought that I was playing my game throughout the whole
match.  I mean, the first set worked out well.  I think that the
first set, Mal wasn't really into it.  He hit a heck of a lot
of errors-- more errors than normal. Second and third set, he
picked it up.  He picked his game up, and didn't miss a whole
lot of balls, and you know, really didn't give me a whole lot
of opportunities to attack him, and you know, it became difficult
to play.  I wasn't winning the long rallies.  Mal was coming in
effectively, and you know, second and third set was really, you
know, all Washington.  You know, the fourth set I had to do something.
 I had to take a few more chances; started to come in, and he
started missing a little bit, and that is, really, I think what
got me back in the match.

 Q.   Kind of dodged a bullet tonight?

 MICHAEL CHANG:  I dodged a few bullets tonight.  I think I was
fortunate to get out of this one.  Mal is a very, very tough player.
 He really has improved his game from the juniors, and you know,
I think that he is definitely a person that is going to be tough
in the future.  I played him earlier in the year.  I lost to him
in straight sets in Memphis.  That was in the back of my mind.
 I tried to learn from that match and I was fortunate that you
know, I was starting to attack; he started to miss a little bit
more.  I stuck with the game plan and it was able to work out
okay.

 Q.   You are being more aggressive on the court; coming to
the net more than in the past.  How much has it helped you?

 MICHAEL CHANG:  It helped me a lot in this game, in this match,
particularly, because I was able to play a style other than just
at the back.  I mean, I played from the back today and the first
set I was okay, the second and third set, I was losing.  I was
losing with my own game; playing from the back, rallying; waiting
for my opportunity.  Mal was just playing his game better.  You
know, so I think that I was fortunate that, you know, I was able
to attack.  I was able to hit a few volley winners and I think
that you know, I was lucky that I had something else to go to.


 Q.   Michael, there is two ways to look at a match like this;
that it was good to play a tough five set match or it is bad because
it wasn't easy.  What do you think it's going to be?

 MICHAEL CHANG:  It is really tough to say because there have
been times where you take Becker a few years ago where he had
that really tough match against Rostagno.  I think in turn, it
helped him to become mentally tougher throughout the whole tournament,
but you know, I think that if you ever come out of these tough
matches, it should help you later in the tournament.  If you have
too many of them, it can kind of go the other way for you because
it can wear you down and you can get tired mentally.  It is tough
playing a two week tournament; best of five and having to win
seven straight matches in a row to win the tournament.

 Q.   Were you cramping on the court?

 MICHAEL CHANG:  No.

 Q.   There are not too many more opportunities--

 MICHAEL CHANG:  No, I am actually very happy to get through the
round of 16.  It has been my stumbling block in not just this
tournament, but you know, in Wimbledon I got there a couple of
times, and you know, it is nice to finally get over that hump.


 Q.   What are your thoughts about playing Ferreira?

 MICHAEL CHANG:  I think Ferreira is going to be a tough match.
He is a great all-around court player; won on every single surface
this year, and you know, all I can say it is going to be a tough
match.  I played him two years ago.  I think I had beat him 7-5
in the third, so I expect a very, very tough match.

 Q.   Thank you very much.     


 End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT