U.S. OPEN
September 4, 1992
Michael Chang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.   Michael, can we get your general thoughts about how the
match went and how you feel you played? 
 
 MICHAEL CHANG:   I think the overall match, you know, I think
was more or less, you know, if Patrick had won more points at
the net than if I could pass him or not, I think that really came
down to if I was able to hit a great volley.  I tried to mix up
my serve a little bit because I know that Patrick IS playing a
lot of doubles, being one of the best doubles players in the world,
has won one of the best returns and he has got very good hands
and good touch on his volleys.  I just tried to play a steady
tennis, and tried not to make a whole lot of errors.

 Q.   Were you pleased with your performance?

 MICHAEL CHANG:   I think that my performance -- it was good today.
 I still feel that I think it needs to go up another notch.  I
felt that my passing shots were good today.  My serve was good
today.  I think those were the keys that really helped me to win
this one.

 Q.   Talking about how you need to go up another notch or
another level here; in view of that, what did you think of your
seed when you first realized you were fourth seed in this round?

 MICHAEL CHANG:   For me, being fourth seed, actually, is a big
difference than either not being seeded at all or being anywhere
from 9 to 16, where I am normally am, where I used to be.  I think
now it kind of opens up the draw a little bit better for me. 
I no longer have to draw an Edberg in the round of 16, like I
did last year.  I think that the draw probably, you know, I don't
have to play the top eight seed 'till the quarters.  It helps
out.

 Q.   Michael, can you just briefly-- this is off the topic
of today, but just briefly talk about the power debate and your
thoughts on it and how have adjusted to the power game and so
forth?

 MICHAEL CHANG:   Well, I don't know, you know, it is tough to
say whether it is a trend, power test is a trend or if it is actually
a particular strategy.  I think that my first round match was
kind of a good example.  Ellis  plays with a wide body racket.
 He plays very much a go-for-hit type of tennis.  If he makes
it, he is almost, 90% of the time, a winner, or you just get the
racket out but not be able to do anything with it.  I think that
wide body rackets will help a few of the players, I think, particularly
the players who hit flatter, where they rely more on letting the
ball come down by itself, instead of spins.  I think that it is
-- you are becoming -- you are playing more and more players who
are hitting harder and harder.  You have the rackets -- I believe
the courts have actually got a lot faster than what they used
to be.  I think that really, you look at the whole year you know,
the beginning is like the indoor hard court season, which is pretty
fast, you get over to the clay court season, all the clay court
tournaments are trying to quicken things up.  I think that the
French is actually a lot faster than what it was before.  Wimbledon
is fast and you come over here, hard court season again, it is
fast.  After this, you go to the indoor season on supreme, which
is fast as well.  So I think it is not really for me in my position
to really, you know, complain or to try to change anything.  You
know being 20 years old, you know, I have to learn to try to adapt,
and do different things to kind of counteract the power; whether
it is coming in; whether it is taking a little pace off the ball;
whether it's keeping the ball lower or higher, depending on the
player.  

 Q.   Is it good for tennis or not, do you think, from your
point of view?  Will it attract more fans or will it --

 MICHAEL CHANG:   I think that honestly, it is probably pretty
exciting for the public to be able to watch a power player go
against a player who is kind of an either a counterpuncher or
a finesse player.  Obviously, if one gets blown off the court,
it is not that much fun.  I think when you have a good match up,
I think, in a sense, that maybe you know, it matches up well,
if you can get that kind of combination.

 Q.   When you play a guy who hasn't played you or for a year
or so, do you sense any surprise on his part, when he realizes
you are hitting the ball harder and being a more powerful type
of player than you used to be?

 MICHAEL CHANG:   You mean Patrick?

 Q.   Patrick or anybody you haven't played for a while; then
they noticed that you changed your game a little bit.

 MICHAEL CHANG:   I don't know if they rely -- I think that they
are more aware of it, as you are changing your game. Normally,
whether they are watching -- they don't necessarily have to play
against you to know that you have changed your game.  A lot of
times you can just -- you will be watching a match and you will
notice certain things about players.  You know, in the lockerroom,
word gets around very, very fast.  If you have one particular
weakness, you may think that nobody knows, but everybody knows.
 And by all means, all of a sudden, you will realize everybody
is attacking that weakness and trying to open it up more and more,
and you know, we start to pick up on these things and you realize
that you have to keep on improving, because the game is -- the
game and the players are constantly improving.  If you don't improve,
you are going to fall back.

 Q.   Does this play -- playing Patrick remind you of playing
John?

 MICHAEL CHANG:   Not quite.  Actually, I think that -- I would
say that they are more opposites.  Patrick is a little more on
the mental side than John.  I think that -- I know that was John
was mentioning to me that was one of the tough things about playing
doubles with Patrick, is that the personalities were -- they are
so different, you get into a tight situation, and John would say
to Patrick "all right, we got to get pumped up we got to
get pumped up" and Patrick would say to John, "everything
is under control.  It is cool.  It is cool."  I think that
they are very much opposites, but I think that Patrick has picked
up a few things from John, a lot -- a little bit on the volleys,
the touch, Patrick has very, very good touch, especially off his
backhand side of his backhand volley.

 Q.   You talked about how pleased you were with the seeding
and how that has opened up a lot of things for you.  Were you
surprised when you saw that you were the fourth seed or did you
expect to be?

 MICHAEL CHANG:   Well, the U.S. Open has not changed the seeding
like Wimbledon in the past, so if I knew that I was number 4,
before the -- before Hamlet, you know, I was going to be seeded
number 4, regardless of what the -- if the rankings changed after
the Hamlet cup.

 Q.   Thank you.   


 End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT