US OPEN
September 2, 1999
Michael Chang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What made a difference today between you and Arnaud? Concentration, speed, or....

MICHAEL CHANG: I think Arnaud played some good tennis today, you know, he served well
and was able to scramble some good shots today. I had some opportunities and, you know,
wasn't able to convert, and, you know, I was unable to convert on almost all his chances.
That was pretty much the pretty big difference there.

Q. Do you think he ever let you get into the match in a way?

MICHAEL CHANG: I always feel like I -- I think whenever there's, you know, a match
where you're hitting a lot of balls, I always feel like I'm always in the match. It's not
something where you are really getting overpowered or blown off the court by aces and
stuff like that. So, you know, I always feel like I'm -- there's always an opportunity of
being able to work the point and get yourself back into the match. You know, I didn't
really feel like, you know, I was really, really out of it until really the match was
over.

Q. Michael, do you feel like you can still summon the intensity up that you could three
or four years ago?

MICHAEL CHANG: I feel like it's still there. You know, I feel like it's still there.
Whether that is something that, you know, people see on the court or not is, you know,
it's hard for me to really say. But I feel like, you know, the determination and the fight
is still there, just haven't been able to win as many matches as I did three or four years
ago. So, yeah.

Q. What do you think of Arnaud's game? On TV John McEnroe said he could see yourself
younger in Arnaud Clement. Do you agree with that? Same kind of player, just younger?

MICHAEL CHANG: How old is Arnaud?

Q. 21.

MICHAEL CHANG: 21. I think it's true, to a certain degree. Obviously, you know,
size-wise and game-wise, I think there are some similarities. I don't think I was able to,
you know, have quite as much pace on my first serve as he has. He's consistently in the
120s, but, you know, I think overall there are definitely some similarities there. 

Q. Michael, in the third set, you changed, you were trying different things. Each time
he really had a good response. He played some incredible shots. Do you think that was the
key, he played the best points down the stretch better than you?

MICHAEL CHANG: I think some of those points were probably -- turned out to be key
points. I had had some chances where I came in on some good shots and he came up with some
good passing shots. Yeah, I think that those are opportunities that are missed. I think if
I'm able to win those points, I think the third set could very well be mine and then from
there it's a whole new ball game. But, yeah, I mean, you know, he came up with some pretty
good shots today.

Q. What are your plans for the near future?

MICHAEL CHANG: I don't have anything planned really until Asia. I'm going to take the
next few weeks off and just spend some time at home and rest up and relax a little bit, do
a little bit of fishing and get ready for the rest of the fall.

Q. Where will you be in the next tournament in Asia?

MICHAEL CHANG: Shanghai, in Singapore.

Q. Are you a defending champion there?

MICHAEL CHANG: In Shanghai I am.

Q. You were really gaining some momentum at the end of the summer. Do you think it's a
big disappointment, a setback?

MICHAEL CHANG: Well, to be honest with you, I don't feel like there's, you know, any
more of a -- I don't really look at things as being setbacks anymore. I just try to build
on, you know, what I can build on and I had some good results this summer. Obviously, you
know, I would have liked to have a better Open. But comparatively, for the rest of the
year, you know, probably my best results really came during the summer. So in that regard,
there's a positive light there. So all I can hope for is that things will get better from
here on out.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT