ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 20, 1996
Michael Chang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Michael, Thomas said you didn't play as aggressively as normal.  Is that the way you saw it?
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  Yeah, that is part of it.  I think that this week, obviously, has not been a great week for me. So, just going to have to kind of get back to the drawing board in a sense.  I think that maybe I got to work a little bit harder and be a little bit more focused.  But, I think that was one of the reasons why I just didn't have a whole lot of breakpoints today.  I think normally against Thomas I would be able to have a few more breakpoints and make the match -- make it a lot more closer than what it was today.  
 

Q.  Mentally, are you tired at this time of year now?
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I don't feel mentally tired.  But, I think it is, obviously, a bit frustrating coming into this event and losing your first two matches.  But, like I said, it is just something that's going to have to kind of -- just kind of get back to the drawing board as far as, you know, as far as, like, work ethic and things to focus on and concentrate on because I feel like the matches should be a lot closer than what they should be.  So, -- and I know that I cannot only compete with these guys, but I know I can beat them.  So, that needs to reflect a little bit more so in my game, I feel. 
 

Q.  Your head-to-head with him is 5-1.  Any special reason why is he so tough for you to beat?
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  I think one of them -- for one reason I think Thomas is very good on clay.  Most of those matches were on clay.  So, that is one reason.  I think Thomas obviously is a great competitor.  I feel like my chances against him are much better on other surfaces than clay.  But, on this particular day he was better than I was.  But, I think when you think about it, record doesn't really mean a whole lot because everybody has beaten everybody.  The guys realize that anything can happen on any particular day. 
 

Q.  You gave him a very important point at the end of the first set which gave him 40-15.  Were you expecting for him to  do the same thing with you in the second set when you had a certain tough call?
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  What point? 
 

Q.  The ace.
 
MICHAEL CHANG:  No, I didn't give him that one.  I was -- the ball was called out, yeah.  No, I didn't give -- I was arguing that ball because I saw it good.  But, you know -- I wouldn't give him a ball if I thought it -- if it was my point. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT