NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v COYOTES
May 15, 2012
Derek Morris
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Derek Morris.   
   
 Q.   Down 0‑1, a seven‑game series, do you consider this a must‑win?  
DEREK MORRIS:   It's a huge game.   We definitely have to play better.   You can say it's a must‑win.   Whatever happens happens.   We're going to go out there.   I know all the better effort, if we go out there and play the way we can, the outcome will be a lot better.   
   
 Q.   Especially in the first period, they came out and dictated from the first period on.   Is it turning the tables?   
DEREK MORRIS:   We obviously have to better start.   But I think the whole game they played pretty hard against us.   They had the puck a lot.   We got to find a way to make their D work a lot more down there.   Spent a lot of time in their zone.   Chasing to get the momentum back.   
   
 Q.   Extracurricular activities after whistles, how do you straddle that discipline line?  
DEREK MORRIS:   I don't know.   We'll see how it goes.   Play hard, see how it goes.   
We have to be engaged from whistle to whistle and have to be physical.   
   
 Q.   L.A. just seemed to be coming at you throughout the whole game.   You faced a lot of pressure, particularly in the Chicago series.   But was that the most, Game1, sustained pressure you had seen so far?  
DEREK MORRIS:   Game1‑wise, yeah.   I thought Chicago played us hard, the last game we ended up winning, they were all over us.   
The outcome wasn't what we wanted last game.   We know we have to go out there and push back a little harder.   All of those are one‑on‑one battles that we were losing down low containment and you know getting out of our zone quick and down in their zone.   
   
 Q.   Is it as simple as raising the compete level tonight?  
DEREK MORRIS:   Yeah, we got to compete better and smarter.   I wouldn't say we weren't competing, I would say we have another level we have to compete at.  
   
 Q.   Being you were tied late in the game, 2‑2, knowing you didn't play your best game, is there anything you can take from that?   
DEREK MORRIS:   Well, we seem to find a way to hang around in games no matter how it's going.   We have to have a better start and carry it on.  
   
 Q.   Trademark of the team is coming back after losses.   You've done it every time in the playoffs.   Is there a key to that you can explain to us?   
DEREK MORRIS:   Came back a lot this year.   You know, we believe we can win this series.   We know what we have to do.   It's just a matter of going out and doing it.  
   
 Q.   Is it fair to describe your style as opportunistic?   
DEREK MORRIS:   That's a great way to put it.   We obviously got to get more opportunities, so we'll see how it goes.   
   
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT