NHL ENTRY DRAFT
June 22, 1996
Derek Morris
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Definitely.  I wasn't expecting to go for a little while, but I'm glad I did. 
 
I thought it of it, but I just got my  brother to get it for me just in case. 
 

Q.  How surprised were you to go this early in the draft?
 
Really surprised.  I expected somewhere from second to fourth.  I never heard the first round, although I guess they see something in me. 
 

Q.  Being with the Calgary Flames and I guess that makes you more excited?
 
Definitely.  When I grew you up, I watched the Flames, Oilers and I'm definitely going to be excited and proud. 
 

Q.  Were you a fan of the Flames or the Oilers?
 
Neither, I was always a Chicago Blackhawks fan.  My dad was an Edmonton fan and my neighbor down the street was a Calagary fan. 
 
I don't know, honestly.  They told me how it wasn't a big deal when I went out there to talk to them and I is guess it wasn't -- I guess half an inch isn't really much. 
 

Q.  I know Caly Kissio (ph) has been on you all season long?
 
I talk to Caly (ph) a couple of times, and he's from around my part and he's seen me a couple of times, knew what I could do, and I guess maybe it had a little say in the matter. 
 
When I was younger, I played more like  him, but last year I played a little more of a defensive style than usual.  Hopefully I'd like to end up playing like him and hopefully it will happen. 
 

Q.  Is skating one of your stronger attributes?
 
Definitely, I have to be the skater and move the puck well and -- 
 
Yep, my second half of the season I was really satisfied with.  Basically the first half wasn't the way I wanted to play.  I was a little bit nervous, but come the second half of the season, I was pleased with it. 
 
When I talked to them, they seemed pretty interested, because but all the teams I talked to it seemed like they were, and I don't know they seemed like the nicest group to me, treated me the nicest, so I kind of maybe had a little bit of insight. 
 
I was.  I always watched my cousin growing up Brent Berger (ph) he was in Chicago a few years ago, so ever since, I've been a Chicago Blackhawks fan. 
 
Yep. 
 
Through marriage, his wife, my mom -- or or her cousin, I guess. 
 
I talked to Brian, he's from around Sylvan and he just basically said be yourself, have a fun time, go down and enjoy yourself.  That's all I tried to do. 
 

Q.  Thank you. 
 
Thanks a lot. 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT