U.S. OPEN
August 28, 2018
Chris Widmaier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








USTA PRESS CONFERENCE
CHRIS WIDMAIER: So I just wanted to quickly gather here.  I\'m know there is a lot of questions as it relates to the extreme weather policy.  Rather than doing it like one at a time with everybody, just put it out what\'s happening, answer a few questions, and then get the room back to the players.
So we did, today, following consultation with our medical team, determine that we would employ an extreme heat policy and apply it to the men\'s matches that happened at approximately 1:00 p.m. or so, give or take, in that area.
As you saw, that policy means after the third set, players would be offered a 10-minute break.  If one or both wanted to take it, both players would be provided it.  If both declined, they would just play on.
That break is only between the third and the fourth set.  It would not be offered again after the fourth.
Obviously the ATP has a rather broad, if you will, heat policy that relies a lot on discretion.  The WTA\'s heat policy is more exact and more of a codified policy, if you will.
Traditionally we have followed those policies.  So the heat rule, the extreme heat rule kicks in for the women under the WTA guidelines, but this is the first time in US Open history that we have done an extreme heat policy for men.
The logical question is, do you now have a number for the men similar to the 30.1 Wet Bulb reading that the women have?  We do not.  I do not expect to be announcing that in the next day or two.  We are looking at the situation, are constantly in contact with the tournament referee, Brian Earley, and constantly in contact with our medical personnel getting their input.
So I don\'t believe that we will have a concrete, written policy, if you will, on the extreme heat for men until after this US Open as we see what is happening.
Certainly we have faced tough conditions in the past.  I think in 2015, if I\'m getting the date correct, I believe we had four days here in New York with above 100 degrees Fahrenheit.  That being said, you know, we felt that this was the right decision today.
We will be doing this on a case-by-case basis, and so tomorrow we will be making that determination whether we will implement an extreme heat policy for the men for a second time.  I do not have the answer whether we will do that or not right now.  We will make that decision tomorrow.
Also, our policy is not to close the roofs for any reason except for precipitation.  That policy, at this moment anyhow, is staying in place.  We are going to convene tonight and determine whether, depending on what the forecast is for tomorrow which looks probably a little worse or more brutal or whatever the proper termination would be, than today.
We may close the roof tonight in both buildings in an attempt to just bring down that ambient temperature overnight to some degree.  That decision has not been made.  If it is made, we will definitely communicate that to all members of the media.
Just to reiterate, we have put out what can and cannot be done during the 10-minute break.  It\'s available in the media center.  I know there were several questions on coaching.  No coaching is allowed.  Also, it is the players\' responsibility to get back to the court in 10 minutes.
There is a couple of more, but you\'ll see it.  To my knowledge, there may have been a fifth, but there were four retirements today.  Of those four, two were heat-related.  One was a left arm strain, I believe.  And Leo Mayer, before me coming into this room, we did not get the medical reason for what it is.
Two of the four, certainly heat-related, potentially three, but I do know two of the four.  Certainly we have seen more retirements than four in a day, but we never like to see that.
That\'s about what I got.  That\'s where we are at.  There\'s a couple of questions, I do want to get this room back to the players.
Q. How did you decide there wouldn\'t be another break available after the fourth set?
CHRIS WIDMAIER: That\'s a good question.  That was the referee\'s decision, to my knowledge.  But before anybody prints that, I will confirm that 100%.  I don\'t know if it was to be consistent with the one break in the women\'s to ensure that there was consistency or -- that\'s what I believe, but I would like to be able to confirm that 100% and I will communicate that.
Q. Just to confirm, when you say the ATP\'s policy, you\'re saying it\'s broad enough that it basically leaves it up to the tournaments to decide?
CHRIS WIDMAIER: Yeah, I think what they say is when weather or other conditions threaten the immediate safety of the players, spectators, officials, or any other persons on the tournament site, the supervisor may suspend or postpone the matches until such time that, in his opinion, the threat to safety is no longer evident.
Q. The consultation between you, tournament, and the medical setup, did that come from one way or the other or is that something that happens all the time?
CHRIS WIDMAIER: Well, that\'s something that happens all the time.  What I should add to this, just so you know, we typically take our readings, you know, environmental readings, weather readings at 10:30 a.m., 1:00 p.m., and 4:00 p.m.  What we are doing now is every hour.  That process will continue for the foreseeable future.
Q. The decision being made at 1:00 as opposed to earlier in the day, is that because when the reading at 10:30 was taken, the conditions were considered fine and the forecast wasn\'t part of it?  And if a player were to complain, Well, gee, we don\'t even have the same rule across the entire day, is that a valid concern on a player\'s part?
CHRIS WIDMAIER: Let me first say, I don\'t know if they were fine.  They were at a level as such at 10:30 that the medical staff and the tournament staff did not feel that there was a need to implement an extreme heat policy.  That changed as we approached 1:00.
I don\'t know the answer on fairness.  I don\'t know how that applies historically.  If you were at a WTA tournament and the day began under conditions that were not as Draconian, and then later on in the day as it became hotter and hotter, the Wet Bulb reading hit or surpassed 30.1.  I mean, I think there is a track record of that.  I mean, so I\'m not sure how to answer on the fairness.
Q. Just connected to that, is it once it\'s instituted, it\'s that way for the day or you can --
CHRIS WIDMAIER: No --
Q. -- or you can retract --
CHRIS WIDMAIER: -- that\'s 100%, you can retract.  If need be, under unusual conditions, maybe bring it back.
Q. Any thoughts of maybe implementing a siesta rule, take a break, have a night session where matches are played on all outer courts?
CHRIS WIDMAIER: That has not been discussed at this point, no.
Q. (Question about same rule for all four Grand Slams.)
CHRIS WIDMAIER: Well, each Grand Slam is its own entity.  We are not governed by the ITF.  The US Open is owned and operated by the United States Tennis Association.  We certainly operate under the Grand Slam rule book and the rules of tennis.  But that decision would be with the USTA and not the ITF.
Q. I have been told on the outer courts during the extreme heat that players are taken to locations to rooms without air conditioning.  Is that true, and if so, is that adequate?
CHRIS WIDMAIER: I don\'t -- I believe that that is true.  One thing we have been able to do to some degree, as we have gone through the transformation, if you will, of our tennis center here is be able to provide more shade structures in areas of rest or recovery for players.
As it relates to air conditioning, that\'s a judgment call.  Do I believe what we provide the players is adequate?  I would certainly hope so and I do believe that, yes.
Q. Will the decision going forward be rendered solely concerning the players or are the fans also included in what you\'re thinking about going forward, if you\'re going to make some kind of change?
CHRIS WIDMAIER: That\'s a very fair question.  Certainly the fans are always at the forefront.  You know, we do try to provide messaging on-site to remind for hydration, sunblock, seeking of shade.  We have, you know, some very, very, very good security and medical personnel on-site for any potential issues.
But we are not going to require them to sit down for 10 minutes.
Q. The watch, the shot, the 25 seconds is still implemented?
CHRIS WIDMAIER: That\'s correct.
Q. Will not change?
CHRIS WIDMAIER: Will not change.
Q. And would it be possible to know officially tonight from the first day, how many people had to go there, or...
CHRIS WIDMAIER: Had to go where?
Q. To your nurse, to, you know...
CHRIS WIDMAIER: How many breaks were implemented between the third and the fourth set?  Is that what you mean for the men?
Q. No, no, how many spectators had to...
CHRIS WIDMAIER: I can try to figure that out, yes.  There might be a process in place for that.  I\'ll look into that.
Q. Do we have a temperature, exact temperature, and is this setting a record so far?
CHRIS WIDMAIER: It\'s certainly not a record-setting temperature day, no.  I\'ll try to find out what the temperature is, but I don\'t believe we broke a record today.  I could be wrong, though, but I\'ll find that out.
Q. It\'s my understanding Louis Armstrong Stadium does not have an independent ventilation system?
CHRIS WIDMAIER: That\'s correct.  It is naturally ventilated.
Q. How would closing the roof...
CHRIS WIDMAIER: The PTF structure that covers the roof reflects back radiation.  So it would not be the same as if you were air conditioning the bowl by any means.  But the roof could serve as one tool in cooling the structure.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT