TOSTITOS FIESTA BOWL: CENTRAL FLORIDA v BAYLOR
December 30, 2013
Bryce Petty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  THE MODERATOR:   Questions. 

Q.   What would it be like to win?
BRYCE PETTY:   It's a dream to show that we prove we belong.   It's the making of a dynasty.   That's what we want, that's why we came here, is to build that legacy. 

Q.   Have you noticed the similarities between you and UCF? 
BRYCE PETTY:   I definitely do.   It's not hard to say.   I love UCF because I think they're a lot like we are.   Had their backs against the wall.   They came here from hard work and commitment. 
I think that's something that earns a lot of respect.   I have a lot of respect for them.   Blake is a tremendous talent at quarterback.   As a quarterback myself, I want to be with the best.   I feel like I'm going up against the best here. 

Q.   Have you seen a lot of film on them?   Talk about their defense. 
BRYCE PETTY:   They bring a lot to the table.   They're very talented, very disciplined.   Whenever you have that, it makes it tough. 
You have to focus in from an offensive standpoint and make sure you have all your Is dotted and Ts crossed because you can't have any mishaps. 
They run sideline to sideline, have a lot of heart.   That pops on tape.   You can see that. 

Q.   I was talking to Clay.   He said all you guys are getting recliners. 
BRYCE PETTY:   We're going to have a media room.   We've actually been fortunate enough to have a TV, now we're getting recliners.   It's going to be fun to have that put in the house, for sure. 

Q.   What else were you considering? 
BRYCE PETTY:   As far as the gifts?   There's a thousand‑watt sound system that was pretty cool.   There was a guitar, but I don't need a guitar because I can't play.   There were a couple of other things here and there that were fun to look at. 

Q.   How do the gifts compare to the Holiday Bowl?
BRYCE PETTY:   We didn't get a gift certificate at the Holiday Bowl.   I think the gifts here are great.   I don't know bowls you can get a recliner from, but anytime you can do that, it's a good bowl. 

Q.   I was talking to Storm at UCF, he said he gives a lot of the gifts to his family.   Do you ever pass them on?
BRYCE PETTY:   I give my Best Buy gift cards to dad.   He wanted a TV.   It's fun to share the wealth, especially you being a part of this.   Your family doesn't always get to do that.   It's nice to give to them and say thanks for all the support. 

Q.   Kind of like a continuation of Christmas?
BRYCE PETTY:   Definitely. 

Q.   I know you've been around the bowl games, the attention this brings.   When you walked in here, to see the media attention, did it surprise you to be here for Media Day?
BRYCE PETTY:   I'd actually be lying if I said it wasn't.   I didn't really expect this when they said Media Day.   Can't be much bigger than that.   But it's definitely a lot bigger than it was yesterday. 
Just goes to show you how big this bowl is.

Q.   Talk about confidence and experience. 
BRYCE PETTY:   Moving in the pocket, working in the pocket, footwork, knowing what a defense is doing, there's a lot of intangibles that you can only learn so much in practice.   So having one year under my belt is great.   I want another one.   That way I'll be fully prepared to take on whatever the NFL throws me. 
That's really what I want to do. 

Q.   NFL runningbacks have such a short lifespan.   How difficult of a decision is it for a guy like Blake?
BRYCE PETTY:   Yeah, I mean, that's one thing that I talked about.   That's a decision between him, coach and his family.   That's true, a lot of good points.   That's a number of hits.   He has to take that into consideration.   I know he will. 
He's a tremendous talent.   I'd love to have him back.   At the same time he's got to do the best for him and his family.   I'm going to support whatever decision he has. 

Q.   The assistants have been every year.   How nice is it to have that consistency? 
BRYCE PETTY:   It's huge.   Especially when you have a rising program, teams want to take those kind of guys.   It's really been a blessing to see those guys really want to stick it out. 

Q.   You've been off for such a long time, a couple days away.   Is it finally starting to sink in?
BRYCE PETTY:   I think so.   Really for me when we got here it started to sink in.   This is what we came here for.   If you can't get excited, ready to focus and prepare for this, I don't know if you need to be here. 
Our guys have done a really good job of coming in, focusing, practicing, having an up‑tempo practice.   Things get monotonous, but it's been great to see them really excited. 

Q.   Does it remind you of a Super Bowl Media Day?
BRYCE PETTY:   I haven't ever been there, but this is what I would imagine it would be like. 
It's been awesome, especially the media coverage for Baylor.   It's about us getting on a national scale.   That game will be big for us.   We're very privileged to be here.   Try to put Baylor on the map nationally, but not in Texas or southern states. 

Q.   You've been in the program for a few years now.   Talk about the change. 
BRYCE PETTY:   I don't know how to tell you how much it's changed.   It's almost like a 180 how much it's flip‑flopped.   Guys are excited.   We're really getting the commits to create this program as a dynasty to move on.   As a freshman, you want to build that legacy coming in. 
For me, that is something I always wanted to do, was be remembered wherever I was.   We're not there yet, but we're getting there. 

Q.   To see this Fiesta Bowl patch, how exciting is something like that, this school has never done it before?
BRYCE PETTY:   It's huge for us.   It's about the steps and the levels.   When you go back to my freshman year to now, a BCS game, those are levels that you want to climb.   This is one step.   We got a couple more steps to where we really want this program to be. 

Q.   You've been off for a long time.   Timing, does that concern you?   Is that an issue getting back to game speed?
BRYCE PETTY:   I really don't think it has.   We've been out here the past two days.   We've been clicking.   That's always a good sign when you can come in and start clicking right away. 

Q.   How do you continue to be satisfied where you're at, at the top?
BRYCE PETTY:   We're not at the top yet, so that's definitely going to make us hungry, especially spring practices and fall camp.   We want to be the best.   Once you get to be the best, then you got to fight off everybody who is trying to be the best. 
That trickles down from Coach Briles.   He's always out to prove something.   I really feel he is the best.   You'd never know it if you asked him.   The guy is always working hard, always has something to prove.   That trickles down to us, his team. 
It's been a blessing to see how he approaches things and how he looks at situations, just his whole mentality about it. 
I'm not worried one bit about us being at the top, that we're not going to be hungry. 

Q.   You run the same plays over and over in practice.   With this extra time, do you throw in some new wrinkles?
BRYCE PETTY:   Yeah, might have a couple things here and there to make it fun.   To us it's all about being Baylor.   Baylor got us here, so you want to keep it that way. 
Bowl game is nice to throw in new wrinkles, but at the same time you want to go with what you've been doing. 

Q.   What are the similarities you see?   Both you and UCF have been previously overlooked in your states.   To be kind of where you are now, previously overlooked, now in the Fiesta Bowl for the first time...
BRYCE PETTY:   That's what helps with the mutual respect we have for each other.   I know I respect them.   It's always interesting, I guess, to know that you're playing a team that's kind of came from the same background as you have.   You can tell they came from hard work, they've been backed up in a corner. 
It's nice to see us both rising at the same time.   That's why it's going to be a great matchup, one I wasn't disappointed with at all when they came out and said we would be playing them in the Fiesta Bowl.   I was excited to be playing them. 

Q.   You're used to such a regional matchup, now this national game.   Everybody loves the Fiesta Bowl.   What is it going to be like?
BRYCE PETTY:   It's going to be huge.   This is what we've wanted.   Again, it's about levels, it's about steps.   This is what we want to do.   We want to prove to the nation not only what Baylor is, but where it is.   A lot of people don't know where Baylor is. 
This team can play.   That's what we want to do.   I think that's what we can prove on a national scale, how we play. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT