TOSTITOS FIESTA BOWL: CENTRAL FLORIDA v BAYLOR
December 29, 2013
Bryce Petty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Talk about Tevin. 
BRYCE PETTY:   He brings an explosiveness back to the offense.   We're excited to have him back. 
Then really just get back on the field. 

Q.   The runningback corps finally back to full strength.   Is this an offense that's what it was like early on in the season?
BRYCE PETTY:   Yeah, that's the plan.   That's what we hope for and have been preparing for.   That's what's good about getting a couple weeks off, is you get guys back healthy. 
Especially to have a game like this, the last BCS game, being our first BCS game, there's a lot to show, a lot to prove.   Our guys are ready for it.

Q.   Talk about coming out of high school, the first couple years of how that whole process played out for you. 
BRYCE PETTY:   Yeah, recruiting was interesting.   Committed to Tennessee out of high school.   Then Coach Fulmer and all that coaching staff kind of went south, which was a surprise to me.   I needed a change. 
Coach Monty was in the door the very next week.   I came down here, talked to Coach Briles, loved what he was about, his vision, determination for what he wanted to do with this program. 
That was all great.   Finally got to school.   I was one of those kids that was ready to go to college, wanting to get out, but then to have to sit back was tough.   Just really had to work out on my own.   I wasn't part of the team yet. 
Came in January and was a little fish, big pond.   Nobody really knew who I was.   Redshirted, waited, then waited the next year, waited the next year. 
Those three years there were really monumental in the person who I am today on and off the field.   Like I say, it's been such a blessing, because it's hard for an 18‑, 19‑, 20‑year‑old.   I mean, I played baseball, football, basketball growing up and never sat on the bench, ever. 
To kind of be here to wait, to wait, to wait, it was tough.   Patience wasn't too high on my character list, but one that had to mature (smiling). 
That's why I said I wouldn't change it, the way it's kind of built me up.   I've grown a lot from it.   It wasn't an easy process by any means. 

Q.   (Question about not playing.) 
BRYCE PETTY:   That's what I'm saying.   The whole thing is the God thing, the way it's all orchestrated.   I can't explain it other than God.   His plan for my life has been from day one.   It's been awesome to kind of sit back and see it unfold just because I know how I've wanted it to happen.   It's been even better with His way, if that makes sense. 

Q.   Have you talked to Nick at all about that? 
BRYCE PETTY:   I don't think we ever talked about it.   That was one thing, I really commend Nick because at the time, I didn't realize the implications of what happened.   But reflecting on that, that's a team player.   That's exactly what Nick was.   He's a great athlete, but even better person.   Those are the kind of guys you want on your team. 
My hat is off to Nick for taking that. 

Q.   That was a monumental step in the program because if you lose that game, maybe you don't get into a BCS game this year. 
BRYCE PETTY:   It's weird how it all evolved. 

Q.   After everything that you've gone through, you talk about the plan being out of your hands.   How many times have you thought about being the quarterback in this BCS game?
BRYCE PETTY:   It's been a blessing, it really has, the whole experience.   Not just being here, but the Big 12, getting the chance to get to 11‑1, the best record Baylor ever has.   The way it's unfolded, it's been a true blessing. 
For us to be here is huge.   It's the last BCS game.   It's the first one for us.   There's a lot of implications. 

Q.   What conference does UCF play in?
BRYCE PETTY:   American.

Q.   American? 
BRYCE PETTY:   American Conference. 

Q.   American Athletic Conference. 
BRYCE PETTY:   That's what I meant.   I was testing you (laughter). 

Q.   You talked about the history, how the perception has changed.   For the 11 seasons before Art Briles came along, fans suffered through a lot of misery.   Now they're wearing their green and gold proudly.   Have you fully realized the significance of what you have done?
BRYCE PETTY:   I would like to say yes.   At the same time, I don't think there's any way that we could.   Those 11 seasons, we probably weren't looking at Baylor.   Being football guys, you want to get recruited and go to a top school.   Really Baylor is not on our map. 
To understand the commitment level that these guys have had is also one to be noted, too, because we all took a chance on Baylor. 
That's where the vision of Coach Briles really took off.   It all started with him. 
To the fans, I couldn't be more proud of what we've done for them because that 11 years is a long struggle.   It makes life hard when that fall season is a rough one.   So, like I said, it's been a true blessing.   I really do feel that we have the best fans in the country.   Those guys are a rock and they love it.   So it's fun to be a part of it. 

Q.   Coach Briles, does he say funny stuff all the time?
BRYCE PETTY:   A lot of times.   I don't know if he makes it up off the top of his head.   There was one I saw a video on.   I don't know if it was top 10 Coach Briles comments.   It was early, in his first or second year.   I don't know the question. 
He goes, If you have pecan pie and apple pie and you like pecan pie, you're probably going to pick pecan pie. 
I really want to know the question for that response (laughter). 
I think those things just come off the top of his head.   That cracks me up, because my grandpa was like that, just really far out analogies and responses to things.   I almost feel at home when he starts talking like that. 

Q.   Is there anything that he says over and over again or something that stands out from the past?
BRYCE PETTY:   Not so much as his sayings that I don't know what he's talking about. 
The one I've always remembered and talked about was the very first time I heard him talk about the three Fs, we got to be fast, fresh and physical.   That was one that always stood out, because that cracked me up (laughter). 
I don't know where we were, what game we were preparing for.   But he said that and I died laughing. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT