UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 22, 2010
Rich Rodriguez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
  Q. A number of guys who had injuries, including the guys with the head issues. Can you update us on any of that?   
 COACH RODRIGUEZ: Little bit of an update, but I've got so many names. I mean counting the guys that are out for the year, there are probably 20 guys out of practice.   
 Some of them, I say that, some of them may be cleared by this afternoon. We had multiple guys that had headaches and those things that until they get cleared by the doctors and all that, I don't know what their practice status will be.   
 But I'm optimistic that most of the guys that got out or were out Saturday or had issues on Saturday could be back. I still don't know about Stonum's ankle. We'll see if he can run around in the next couple of days. And Jeremy Gallon's shoulder, we'll see how he progresses over the next couple of days. And the rest of the guys were issues with the headaches. We'll see where they're at today.  
  
  Q. Mike Martin?   
 COACH RODRIGUEZ: Mike should be okay. He'll be a little limited probably, he and Jonas both, and they weren't probably at 100% Saturday. But we'll see what they do.  
  
  Q. Probably seeing it with Terrelle Pryor as quarterback?   
 COACH RODRIGUEZ: In a lot of ways, you know, everybody points to his passing and accuracy and his production there. But even from an understanding of the offense and they don't say he doesn't run much, but he runs when he has to. He's been very effective in tight ballgames of getting big plays with his feet.   
 We know a lot about him. He's a great athlete. I think there is no question he's the leader of that offensive unit. He's made a lot of big plays for them.  
  
  Q. Going up against a tough team on the road with your situation you mentioned with the injuries and everything else. What can you lean on with this team?   
 COACH RODRIGUEZ: Well, what we've got to do, you know, we've got to do what we've done well this year. We've got to continue to do that. Then the areas where we have not done well, you've got to look at it and say, Geez, if we play a little bit better here, a little bit better there, it gives us a shot.   
 It's a game from both teams that's probably easy emotionally to get your guys focused on and ready for. It's Michigan and Ohio State. So from a focus standpoint, from an intensity standpoint, you know that part's going to be there.   
 Now from an execution standpoint, again, offensively when we've gotten off to good starts, when we've taken care of the football, we've been pretty good.   
 Defensively we've got to make some stops, as simple as that. We've got to tackle well, play better than we have. Then on special teams it's been okay. It's just the inability to make field goals has probably clouded the whole special teams picture, so to speak.   
 But outside of that, I think we've been pretty solid. I'm just anxious to see if we can make some field goals, as everybody is. Hopefully we can do that in this game.  
  
  Q. Is Dileo the primary return guy?   
 COACH RODRIGUEZ: Yeah, when Jeremy went out and Junior was a little banged up, then Stonum was hurt, and you remember Odoms is out. So Drew was back there now we'll get Fitz Toussaint ready to return some kicks. Maybe look at it a couple of other guys. But we were digging deep.   
 You know, Fitz went in in the last kickoff and hadn't been on any of the returns all year. So it was just kind of a perfect storm of misfortune there.  
  
  Q. What would beating Ohio State this year mean in terms of program, the rivalry, just everything?   
 COACH RODRIGUEZ: Well, certainly it means, first off, it means a lot because it's Michigan-Ohio State. That is the first thing. Then for this year's seniors, I'm sure this year's seniors it would mean an awful lot. Because they've probably heard numerous times as we all have, that they haven't beaten them. They can take that off there.   
 They know the challenge ahead. But every game, every coach would tell you this is the most important game on your schedule and all that. But this one you don't have to have any, are you sure, coach, when they say that. And they understand the importance of it.   
 Even though we always like to talk about the past and whether it's last year or two years ago or four years ago or five years ago. You know, the guys hear about it quite a bit. This would be something for them to remember quite fondly.  
  
  Q. Everyone knows what's at stake for Ohio State with the BCS stuff and all of that. For you guys if you're going to go to a bowl, what is really at stake?   
 COACH RODRIGUEZ: I think to say that they have more at stake than us, I think when you look at it from a bowl perspective or championship, Big Ten championship, sure. But to say it's less important, no, never, not Ohio State and Michigan.  
  
  Q. Do you do anything special in practice this week?   
 COACH RODRIGUEZ: We do some things, yeah. I don't need to divulge everything we do for opponents. But we do a few special things different for Ohio State than we would the other ones.  
  
  Q. What would it mean to you specifically to win this game?   
 COACH RODRIGUEZ: It would be great for our fans, great for our seniors. Happy for the coaches, happy for our families. It's good, it would be great. Right now I don't think about the end result right now. I'm thinking right now I want my players and my coaches and myself, we're thinking about the process.   
 You think about it, you think about the end result before you play it, and why is your focus not on the process? Our focus is on the process, what do we have to do to move the football, to score points and to stop them from scoring? Those are my thoughts. That's for you all to do.  
  
  Q. When you arrived here the question was would your offense work in the big time? The assumption is your defense would be Michigan defense tradition. The offense has worked, but the defense, sum up what's gone wrong? What's happened?  
 COACH RODRIGUEZ: I wish it was that easy. Trust me, as much as every one of you all have probably written about it and talked about it, and the fans have. I've done it ten fold because I'm living that every day.   
 I don't think if it was just one thing it would be easier to say this was the problem with our defense. But different issues every year. I think there are issues as soon as we got here there were issues after the first year, after last year. There are different issues this year. It's not been the same thing all the time. It's been a multitude of things.   
 But there is no question that it needs to get fixed. Being healthier will fix some of it. That is an easy fix optimistically. You know, recruiting certain players and certain positions that we need to have success, that will be big.   
 We've had great defenses here for many, many years. Tough guys, hard-nosed, but a lot of very, very good football players. Lot of guys that played on the next level and so on in our defense. So we've got to recruit those type of players. Then our part as coaches is put them in position where they can have success.   
 You know, I think our league has gotten better offensively just looking at that. But that is we've got to get better defensively. I know we'll be better defensively if we get healthy. But as everybody else does, I want us to get exponentially better. We've got to look at everything. Just like I will on offense.   
 As productive as our offense has been this year, I think we'll be better offensively next year because we'll have more experience and be able to do more things with it. Same thing is true on special teams.   
 It's not just the kicker. We'll be better on special teams because we'll have more experience coming back and be able to do more things with them?  
  
  Q. What has Mike Martin had to go through to try to play with his ankle?   
 COACH RODRIGUEZ: Mike is there every morning getting treatment at 7:00. He's doing all the things the trainers want him to do. I know it was frustrating for him because it was one ankle then it's another ankle. We're different when Mike is not out there. He's one of those guys that can stand up to anybody.   
 And he hasn't been -- I mean, he hasn't been a hundred percent probably since the first time that happened way back weeks and weeks ago. But he's doing all he can to battle in there. This game will he be 100%? No. Maybe by the bowl game we would hope he would be.  
  
  Q. I know you don't worry about point spreads. But does it shock you at all that it's an 18-point point spread?   
 COACH RODRIGUEZ: That's the first time I heard it.  
  
  Q. Oh, yeah?   
 COACH RODRIGUEZ: That's how much I think about that.  
  
  Q. When you came to Michigan did you ever think you'd be 18 point underdogs to anybody at all?   
 COACH RODRIGUEZ: No. But I don't think about point spreads. I came to Michigan and think about winning championships and competing for championships and all that. I don't worry about point spreads.  
  
  Q. But just the statement that it makes somewhat do I?  
 COACH RODRIGUEZ: What do I think about it? Nothing. How does it affect my life? Doesn't. My preparation? Nothing. I want to get to the point where we're 18 point favorites in every game. How about that? I want us to get to that point. I won't think about that then either. Still got to play every game.  
  
  Q. Fitz wasn't used as much in the back field even though you guys are trying to get him in. Is it something he can't do in practice? Is he not healthy enough?   
 COACH RODRIGUEZ: No, he's still getting -- I don't think he's 100%, but he's still getting back into the groove. For him so much time is like starting all over again. But you'll more than likely see him more often this weekend.  
  
  Q. What is the top tier of the big time this year? It seems like your team struggled a lot in the first half and then came back in the second. Why do you think you've had those slow starts?   
 COACH RODRIGUEZ: I don't think it's been the same reason every time. Offensively we've moved the ball, I think, in some of those games. But we had a turnover that bogged down in the red zone or something that we didn't do in the other games.   
 Certainly the quality opponent has made a factor. But I don't think it's been anything looking back at it now as far as focus or anything. It's just we hadn't played as well at times.   
 But I don't know if it's -- I'll study all that after the season and see if there is something that would help get our guys out of the gates better. But when we're better than the other team, then we'll get off to better starts.  
  
  Q. How has Shoelace evolved this year from start to finish, do you think? What ways do you think he's better? Where does he have room to go still?   
 COACH RODRIGUEZ: Denard, again, for a first-year starter, he's had a pretty remarkable year. He's had bumps in the road and there are have been times when there are some plays that he looks like he's starting for the first time.   
 But there are a lot of times when he looks like this guy's been there for years. That is the exciting part about him.   
 Denard is, and I'm sure Terrelle's the same way, Denard is very interested in getting better every day. What can he do as far as learning the game and getting better on his fundamentals?   
 He's gotten better. Coach Smith has done a great job with him. He's gotten better on his fundamentals. Better understanding of our offense and how teams are defending us. But he's not even reached close to where he's going to be a year and two years from now.  
  
  Q. Is Denard worthy of Player of the Year, do you think?   
 COACH RODRIGUEZ: I really hadn't thought about it much. I think the numbers that he's put up he's worthy of some honors. But, you know, Dave Ablauf and our folks will submit the names. But I don't think -- his numbers have been phenomenal. Even though some people say his production is not as good now as it was early in the year, it's still pretty phenomenal when you look at it.   
 But Denard's not worried about that. I'm not worried about that. And if people pick him, he's one of the best offensive players in the league, I wouldn't disagree with them. I think the kind of year he has, he's had that. But I don't worry about that, and I don't think he does either.  
  
  Q. Are there some things you can't know about a player until he's playing. What have you learned about Denard this year that you couldn't have known when recruiting him even last year?   
 COACH RODRIGUEZ: You I think a lot of the things that we know about him now, we kind of knew when we signed him. Then saw that last year even as a true freshman. You kind of take in leadership wise, he's taken more command I think because he's a year older. He plays that quarterback position now.   
 He's a type of guy that loves his teammates and talks to anybody, whether you're a fifth team walk-on kicker or starting center, Denard's going to treat you the same way. I think that's what is so endearing about him. He's got the type of personality that you want to be around a.   
 We knew that coming in, but the more you're around somebody, like we are around our guys, the more you see how big of a heart he has. He has a tremendous heart. All the guys do.   
 I love this team. These guys got great attitudes. We've not achieved a lot of the things that we wanted to achieve and hoped to achieve. But it's still a lot of fun to come to work and watch these guys. I'm proud of the way they've hung in there.  
  
  Q. As you might have noticed, there is some scrutiny on you and focus on you over the course of the season. I wonder did that change at all in your mind when you became bowl eligible? Do you think that lightened or lessened?   
 COACH RODRIGUEZ: I don't know. You all probably would be a better judge of that than I would. Because I've kind of taken the same approach all the time. I think what you are writing or what other people are saying and what's going on in the blogosphere out there, maybe that's changed. I don't know.   
 I've said before that we've kind of had to take a tunnel-vision type approach as a staff and as a team and as a program because of all the other stuff that's been going on.   
 I think I would do that either way. Whether there was no drama or a lot of drama, I've always believed you do it that way. I haven't changed anything in the last three weeks. I haven't changed anything that we were doing a year ago.   
 That's not to say I'm not always constantly looking to get better. I'm just saying that our focus has to be that way. What people's opinions of you are sometimes, for coaches it's just based on wins and losses or perceptions they get from something that somebody wrote. That's unfortunate, particularly if something is not particularly factual when they write it.   
 You live in a world now that everybody questions everything. That's just the way it is. As a coach you better learn to accept that because that's the way life is. A lot of times being a coach is like being a politician, even though that's a tough job. I don't know how they do that. But a lot of times it is because everybody's got an opinion on how to do your job. That's life.  
  
  Q. After a certain point you talk about everybody focusing on wins and losses, after a certain point isn't that the only bottom line?  
 COACH RODRIGUEZ: Is it?   
  
  Q. Well, yeah, isn't it?   
 COACH RODRIGUEZ: See, see what I say (laughing). You answered the question. You answered the question. At this level of coaching and in the NFL, that's a lot of people do look at that.   
 Listen, I've been fortunate enough to win some games and have some success. Like I said, I didn't get this job in Michigan by getting a lottery ticket that said congratulations you're the coach of Michigan. We didn't get stupid overnight and all that when we lost a few games.   
 But whether it was at West Virginia or here or anywhere else, yeah, I think there's always more to it. But there is always more to building a program than probably what's written too.   
 We've talked about, many of you that have followed us, a lot of stuff. But every program has unique circumstances to it, and this one's no different. We have great tradition and have had great success. There are so many positive things. But there are always circumstances and things that come up that maybe alter the timeframe of getting the program where you want to get it. That's the simplest way for me to put it all.   
 Our timeframe to get this program where we want it to be and where everybody else wants to be, that time line had to be extended a little bit more for various reasons.  
  
  Q. How close are you?   
 COACH RODRIGUEZ: How close? Close in some areas and still a ways in others. But not deterred at all that we will get -- I'm more positive now than any time I've been in the last two and a half years that we'll be where we want to be, and I can see that at the end of the tunnel.  
  
  Q. Why do you say that?   
 COACH RODRIGUEZ: Just because of the progress we're making. Again, I'm there every day. I see where we're at with our players. I see where we're at with recruiting. I see where we're at on the field moments. I also see where we need to work at, so we'll be there.  
  
  Q. You say, next month, next year? Two years?   
 COACH RODRIGUEZ: I don't know. I don't want to give you an exact timeframe because then you'll hold me to it. I'll just tell you, it's sooner rather than later. But it's not overnight.   
 I said before many problems that you have, some problems you can solve them quickly. Some don't happen overnight, so they won't be solved overnight.  
  
  Q. As far as kickers, the same situation with Seth and Brendan?   
 COACH RODRIGUEZ: Yeah, Seth had a great week of practice and then he missed the one. Which I haven't seen him miss one in the middle of the field in weeks. And Brendan kicked the extra points, but they were low, so we're lucky they weren't blocked. So we'll see.  
  
  Q. Is it a mental thing with Seth?   
 COACH RODRIGUEZ: I don't know. Watching the film we didn't see anything fundamentally wrong as far as his plant foot and his head and the operation and all that.  
  
  Q. Given the injuries at running back, who do you hope to get production from this week?   
 COACH RODRIGUEZ: Well, if Vince is okay. I mean, Vince has been the number one guy. Then Stephen Hopkins, Fitz, and then Mike Shaw. We didn't play Mike because he didn't practice all last week. He should be good to practice all this week.  
  
  Q. How is the offensive line holding up? They've gone against Kerrigan a lot last week?  
 COACH RODRIGUEZ: Yeah, they're doing okay. They're battling it. We didn't play as well up front last week on the edges as we had been. I thought inside David played pretty solid. My guards were pretty solid.   
 The tackles have been playing really pretty good. It wasn't our best game on the outside, and Watt had something to do with that. But this is a big challenge. I think our guys, they know that. You don't have to tell players when you play against a great team. They've got players and athletes everywhere that you're going to have to crank it up a notch.  
  
  Q. How does Hayward stack up against those two previous guys?   
 COACH RODRIGUEZ: He's been a great player. So strong. He's got that NFL body and a lot of experience. But they have a bunch of them up front that are pretty good.   
 Simon is as strong a football player as I've seen on film, John Simon is. He's had a great year as well.  
  
  Q. So much has been made about playing in Columbus and Ohio State game is a completely different bird. What was your experience like a couple years ago?   
 COACH RODRIGUEZ: No, it's loud. A couple of the convenient use like being at Penn State at night, it's a loud venue. Our guys have been -- I say that, but some of the guys on defense have not played a lot in those venues. But the communication issues usually come with your offensive guys. So Denard's had a little experience with that.   
 It's going to be loud. We understand that, even just being a noon game. So we'll work all week, starting today, being prepared for that.  
  
  Q. You told us a story I think it was last year about when you were on the bus and you were coming in and there were some fans that were a bit unruly.   
 COACH RODRIGUEZ: Yeah, I mean, people have said you'll see some things you haven't seen before. And I think you all had said that. So I was looking for things I hadn't seen before. So I was expecting to see -- you can imagine what I was expecting to see.   
 I saw a couple of elderly women, probably in their late 60's give us the middle finger salute. But I said, heck, I'd seen that before. Playing in Pitt we saw whole families of them doing that (laughing). That wasn't anything different than what we've seen.   
 You hear a lot of comments. I'm sure we'll hear quite a bit of it going in there. So there's a lot of intensity there for sure.  
  
  Q. I assume that you never doubted your offensive work in the Big Ten. There was that question. Do you think the doubts were because of the tradition of the league?   
 COACH RODRIGUEZ: It was probably doubts because people just want to doubt. I mean there's just a faction of people that want to be negative. They want to doubt and throw it out there. People read it. Hey, this will never work. Okay. They'll read that before this will be okay. That's just sensationalism. That's what I think is one of the reasons.   
 But it's worked before. I mean, Northwestern won a Big Ten title ten years ago using a spread offense. It's not the exact same like us, but there was -- when they came to visit us and they went up and put a lot of points and won the league with it, it worked.   
 I think it's just a system. I think way too much is made of what type of offense or defensive schemes you run. It's having a system, being able to execute that system with the right players. Coaches got to do their part putting them in the right place. So that will -- putting you in a box that you have to be this kind of style.   
 Wisconsin runs a system and they're very good at it. We run a different system offensively and it's been pretty productive. The same thing is true defensively.   
 I hear people saying you can't run an odd man front. It's a system. You have to execute the system right with the right players doing the right things.  
  
  Q. There was a theory that teams with the spread finesse offenses often have soft defenses. Any truth to that?   
 COACH RODRIGUEZ: Let's see. West Virginia when they beat Oklahoma and beat Georgia and won the Big East Championships, you know, people can say what they want about the Big East. The defense was one of the Top 10 in the country.   
 Who won a National Championship? Florida won it a couple years ago with a spread offense. They were pretty good. Who won it before that? Help me out here, National Championships. Alabama had a pretty good defense. They run a spread offense. Oklahoma ran a spread offense. They had a pretty good defense.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT