ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: CLEMSON v VIRGINIA TECH
November 28, 2011
Rashard Hall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Rashard Hall. 

Q.   My question concerns Logan Thomas.   What do you recall from the first game against Virginia Tech about him, and what have you seen since then on film that maybe he's improved?
RASHARD HALL:   First and foremost, I want to give all the glory to God.   Secondly, to answer your question, Logan Thomas, he's a great player.   He was a young player coming to our first game. 
Looks like he's just been returning over games as you would expect players to do, especially at the quarterback position.   He played a good game against us and watching him throughout the season and on film last night, he seems to be doing a great job as their quarterback.
So just preparing for him and his style of play, throwing and running the ball.   And he's been doing a great job.

Q.   He throws well, obviously.   He runs well, too.   Do you recall him as being a difficult guy to bring down or does he look like now a difficult guy to bring down?
RASHARD HALL:   Both.   Both.   If I recall in the first game, I didn't have many opportunities to actually tackle Logan, so I can't really comment on that.   But just watching him throughout the season, he seems like a guy that's definitely going to give you a fight to take him down.

Q.   I don't know how much you've been able to see of Virginia Tech so far on film or just watching on TV during the season.   But I'm just wondering, other than Thomas's development, what is the biggest change in their offense since y'all faced them?   Because you've shut them down unlike anybody else.   They've been able to move the ball pretty well since then.   Have you noticed any difference other than Thomas's development?
RASHARD HALL:   Other than his development, I just noticed they've been throwing the ball and just running it more efficiently than when we played them.   As I recall, they threw a right‑hand, ran right run on us.   And throughout the season they just seem they have been getting better in those departments.   That's the improvement I've seen from the first game until now.

Q.   Also David Wilson did have a pretty good game against you, under 23 yards.   What is it about him that makes it, sets him apart from other running backs that makes him so special?
RASHARD HALL:   He's a great running back.   He runs hard, has great vision and can catch the ball out of the backfield.   Those are the attributes he brings to the game.   He's just a running back in those regards and that's what makes him special amongst other running backs in the ACC and the SEC of all the teams that we play. 

Q.   What can you tell me about Andre and his contributions up front and what that does for you guys in the secondary?
RASHARD HALL:   It makes a big, huge difference.   Andre is a great player.   One of the best defensive ends I've played with here at Clemson.   He just brings a lot to the table that helps us in the back end and vice versa.
But playing behind him makes it a lot easier on the DBs and linebackers.

Q.   Anything you can tell us about him that maybe we don't know, anything about his personality?
RASHARD HALL:   Just his mentality.   He has a freakish mentality.   When he steps on the field, he's the best defensive end in the nation; he obviously is one of the best defensive ends in the nation.   But just his attitude and the way he prepares for games is something I admire about him.

Q.   You guys won convincingly in Blacksburg now you're being listed as an underdog for this game.   I wonder what effect that had on you guys as a team and your mentality, and does it bother you?
RASHARD HALL:   I would say it has no effect at all.   Me personally, it doesn't bother me at all.   I can't speak to the rest of the team.   But it's pretty much the same attitude.   We're preparing for the ACC championship.   So anything that's happened before then to this point is pretty much just out the window, and we're preparing to win a championship game.   And that's just mainly where our focus is at this point. 

Q.   Are you in graduate school now? 
RASHARD HALL:   Yes.   I was accepted to the Human Resource Development Graduate Program here at Clemson, and I'm also working on a management degree at this time also.

Q.   Management, graduate degree or undergraduate?
RASHARD HALL:   No, another undergraduate degree in management. 

Q.   How is the approach and attitude been this week compared to the last several weeks going into this game?
RASHARD HALL:   You're talking about this week going to the ACC Championship game, right? 

Q.   Right.   How is the preparation different than maybe the last several weeks and what have you guys improved on?
RASHARD HALL:   To be completely honest with you, we haven't started preparing yet.   It's still early in the day.   We went and watched film yesterday.   But as a team we haven't even started preparing as a team yet.

Q.   What do you feel like you need to work on?
RASHARD HALL:   As a team, I feel like we did a great job just putting this last game behind us, just the attitudes on the bus and the players I've seen watching film yesterday.
But as far as preparing, just concentrating on doing our job.

Q.   What's your impression of the Virginia Tech receiving corps?
RASHARD HALL:   They have great receivers in 81 and 19, and the rest of the guys do a great job.   I definitely enjoyed playing them the last time we played down in Blacksburg, and they bring a competitiveness to the game that I enjoy playing against, and they're a great corps.

Q.   You enjoy the competitiveness, what do you mean by that?
RASHARD HALL:   Just competing.   It's a little trash talking between snaps, enjoying football.   You can just tell they're ambitious about what they're doing on the field and they're just competing every snap.
They're not lazy receivers; they're not just receivers that are going to be pushed over.

Q.   And 81 and 19 sort of jump out at you in those categories?   You mentioned 81 and 19, do those two guys really jump out at you or jump into your memory as being especially competitive and fierce?
RASHARD HALL:   As far as that, the last game at Blacksburg, yes, sir. 

Q.   The film you looked at last night, anything else jump out at you about their receiving corps?
RASHARD HALL:   Not in particular, not since the last time we played them no.

Q.   Marcus Davis, No. 7, had a couple of big games, I wondered if you had him in the mix?
RASHARD HALL:   The film I watched last night was just a repeat of our game, just looking at how I played against them and looking at the things they did.   So my preparation beyond that point would carry on throughout the week.
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT