TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 5, 2020
Xander Schauffele
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. You just talked a lot about horses for courses and like this place.  Is there anything specific that you feel like fits your game?
 XANDER SCHAUFFELE:   It's tough.  You kind of have to do everything really well.  I think that's why I like it.  It's really fair.  It's right in front of you.  I don't know why I play well here.
 I mean, I think some statisticians could tell you, but certain holes fit my eye and I just enjoy being out here, so it's lucky for me.
 Q. Has ForeTee told you why you play well here?
 XANDER SCHAUFFELE:   Yeah, greens are slopey, they're small.  You've got to drive it well.  If you look at the stats, it's pretty obvious.  I was stressed out early in the week coming in.  I wasn't hitting it very well and I was pretty hard on my dad, and made sure that we'd get me into decent shape just to have a chance to come out here and compete.
 We worked pretty hard at it back end of last week and early into this week.  I think everyone is aware if you're not in the fairway this week, the rough is thick and it's nastier than I've ever seen it.
 Q. The double bogey at 11, that's your highest score ever and you kind of turned it around since then.  Is that one of those turning points that you'll look back on?
 XANDER SCHAUFFELE:   You know, it was a huge hiccup.  I would've lost a lot of money if someone told me I was going to chip it off a green from being about a foot off the green.
 I was standing on a sprinkler head.  I could have dropped it.  I thought lie was decent so I kind of went through with it, and it came out pretty shot chipped it off the green got lucky to make a 5, honestly.
 My second bump stayed up on the hill and I was able to putt it and almost made 4.  It was a very childish mistake, very amateur-esque.  It happens to us, and unfortunately it happened yesterday.
 Q. I think you mentioned something about maybe relocating further down in your career and leaving San Diego.  A win here this week, would you consider Atlanta?
 XANDER SCHAUFFELE:   You know, probably not.  It's a bit far from the West Coast for my liking.  But you know, I would love to keep playing well here.  It's pretty special.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT