TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 26, 2020
Xander Schauffele
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. When you woke up this morning, obviously beautiful day looking out there. Did you get the conditions out there on the golf course that you were expecting to see or were things a little quicker or firmer than maybe you thought?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, a little firmer, just a little bit more wind I'd say. It wasn't much, but it was sort of enough to make you think about going for a tucked pin. You know, J.T. and I were joking, I felt like we played like 13 holes into the wind today for some odd reason. It was just kind of swirly, never really settled in. I would have rather had seven or eight one direction versus sort of four or five kind of everywhere.
Q. Did it sort of feel like in some ways your round was a little disjointed in that you got off to a slower start, got hot and then finally on that par-5 you caught a couple bad breaks; it didn't seem like there was a lot of flow to the round?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, it was choppy. I made three nice birdies there to sort of settle down, and then I started licking my chops on 6. I thought it was going to be sort of down draw, and threw some grass up, and J.T. and I were laughing on the tee box, it was kind of back into us, which we thought was comical. And yeah, right rough isn't a good spot, and that left bunker isn't great, either.
You know, I gave myself chances in the right spots and was able to make some par putts early in the round, which was nice to sort of -- I could have easily been 3-over on the front nine versus 1, so overall very happy.
Q. Yesterday was a pretty special round; you shoot 63. The likelihood of shooting back-to-back 63s is pretty low. Do you come into a round mentally being like, okay, I'm going to do my best but realistically I probably am not going to be able to do that? How do you prepare for a round knowing you want to score well but you're probably not going to replicate what you did yesterday?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, I mean, realistically if you're playing really good golf, there's no reason to not shoot a pair of 63s. I've done it at home a bunch. Obviously I know the courses at home better and know -- once I hit a ball 20 feet right of the pin, I already know how much break it's going to be just because I've played the course so much. That's sort of the advantage the veterans have playing courses over and over again. The more I play courses like this, I'll get more comfortable.
But it was a little weirder yesterday. I got good breaks, which I admitted, and today I kind of got weirder breaks maybe. Overall sort of happy that I sort of scraped together something to make sure I'm not too far out of it.
Q. How much would you anticipate the golf course getting trickier or more difficult for the afternoon wave?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: You know, if it doesn't rain, faster and a little crustier on the greens for sure, and if it does, then it'll just be a little softer. I mean, I'm hoping that it kind of gets a little windier and stays firmer, and with the rough being a little up, it's definitely a bonus to hit fairways. Like I said, Mother Nature will do what she has to do, and hopefully it's for the best for us.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT