PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 6, 2020
Xander Schauffele
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  JOHN DEVER:   Welcome back to the 2020 PGA Championship.  Pleased to be joined by Xander Schauffele.  You fired a 4-under 66 today, five birdies, one bogey.  Maybe tell us about your round today and how you felt about your game.
 XANDER SCHAUFFELE:   I was aware that the wind was going to be down, so figured it would be a nice time to shoot a nice score.
 The last couple days of preparation, a bit foggy but cold, a bit wet.  So knew that it was important to get off to a good start, and fortunately we did.
 Q. Just general thoughts coming in here, where the confidence level is.  You played so well at the big events.  What part of that challenge really gets you going?
 XANDER SCHAUFFELE:   I think that's where the confidence comes from, just having a bit of experience in some bigger tournaments, I guess, where I've played well and kind of remember those events and draw from those experiences.  It's not many, but I've had some success.
 Just aware that it's Thursday and the wind was down, and it was important to get off to a good start, and we did that, so pretty pleased.
 Q. I know this is a big event, but do you have to convince yourself of that because of the situation, because there's no fans and not the infrastructure?
 XANDER SCHAUFFELE:   No, not at all.  You look around, you just see PGA Championship everywhere, and it's enough for me to get fired up.  I think we're missing the fans dearly, but there's still a major championship on the line, and everyone is playing for it.
 Q. Same nerves when you teed off this morning versus last year at the PGA?
 XANDER SCHAUFFELE:   Yeah, that's a good question.  Probably not as severe.  Not that it was severe last year, but I guess not as nervous, if anything.  I'm sure I'll be plenty nervous, though, if I have a chance coming down the back nine on Sunday.
 Q. Kaymer; Schauffele.  Very German, right?
 XANDER SCHAUFFELE:   Yeah, I guess.
 Q. Tomorrow it's going to be a different draw; will you change your strategy?
 XANDER SCHAUFFELE:   I'll definitely watch some golf in the morning, kind of see how everyone is positioned and then I'll be able to sort of reassess coming in.
 I think with a lot of wind, the course will play different, different and difficult.  Not that it wasn't hard today, but it's going to be a lot harder to hit fairways tomorrow and we'll be playing from a lot more rough.
 JOHN DEVER:   Having played a lot in southern California where you're from, did you get up to northern California and play here throughout your youth.
 XANDER SCHAUFFELE:   I've played across the pond here at Olympic once in the Cal State Am, came up with no sweaters or beanies or anything so had to make a lot of purchases in the pro shop.
 But besides that, I've never played Harding Park or any of the great courses they have up here.
 Q. What triggered that nice birdie stretch that you had?
 XANDER SCHAUFFELE:   Kind of got in a nice feeling and groove.  Wind was right-to-left on a few of the holes, and I do prefer that wind as a right-handed guy who likes to draw it predominantly.  Just kind of put some shots together and fortunately was able to capitalize.
 Q. Was there a highlight in there?
 XANDER SCHAUFFELE:   Not really.  The bogey at 8 kind of pissed me off.  I thought I was sitting pretty on the upslope there, and kind of hit it and there was no sand; it bounced into it.  I was licking my chops honestly while I was over it, but pretty sad to come out with a bogey there.
 Q. Obviously because this is a public course, a lot of golfers, a lot of my readers are curious how the pros are going to play the course they play.  What makes it major worthy?  It seems like it's getting good reviews to this point.  What makes it hard enough or interesting enough to be a major venue.
 XANDER SCHAUFFELE:   Simple:  I think the hardest task this week will be the weather for the most part.  Today has been the nicest day we've had since I've been on property, so I think that's why you're seeing a lot more sort of 4-unders, 3-unders, 2-unders, a couple guys at 5.
 I think if the weather stays nice, the greens will firm up, and then the rough is major championship rough.  It's a bit spotty here and there, but you can definitely draw a few bad lies if you're in there all day.
 Just the environment, you know, everyone is a little more serious, a little more intense and kind of trying their best to stick with their team and get ready to go.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT