THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 13, 2020
Xander Schauffele
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk about the last kind of 24 hours and how you found out everything.  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, I think someone kind of said the best comparison is it's kind of like the last day of school. It's just a really strange feeling. Media has blown up on every avenue that we have on our phones and that we can see. And yeah, I think everyone is kind of bummed out. We all kind of understand the pressing matter of the virus and the caution that's been taken by the commissioner to keep us safe. And yeah, I think it's a combo. I think we're bummed out that we're not playing in our main event here on TOUR and also understand on the other hand.   
 Q.  Also some big news that came out from Augusta National that the Masters will be postponed. Just your thoughts on that?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Well, postponed is a comforting word. Canceled is another. As long as it says postponed, I think the players will find hope in that word and just wait for go time.   
 Q.  Is it kind of weird not to know when you'll play next?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, it's just strange. I don't know, I think a lot of us are going to be sitting there at home figuring out what to do. It's sort of go-time for us during the season. A lot of us are trying to get ready for this moment. A lot of good golf, a big stretch of golf coming up, and we'll be sitting at home waiting for someone to tell us when and where. It's a very strange feeling, and I think everyone sort of is on the same page about it.   
 Q.  Is it kind of surreal what's going on in the world with all the sports cancelling? Is this kind of a strange time?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, sports, economies, yeah, it's a real problem. You know, we're such a small footprint in the world, being the TOUR, even sports, there's a lot bigger problems at hand, like I said, with world economies collapsing and whatnot. Just happy that I'm healthy right now and my family is healthy right now, and we'll try and keep it that way.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT