WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 2, 2019
Xander Schauffele
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How satisfying was that round?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: It was weird, I don't think I've ever birdied the first three holes and the last three. Kind of a stall-out in the middle of the round. Yeah, I'm happy, right here in the mix with one day to go.   
 Q.  You go through a patch like that, what do you tell yourself to keep going with the condition that you're in?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Doesn't really matter. It's just golf. I was hitting it much better than I did the first two days, and was laughing with my caddie -- imagine missing every putt I can mid-stretch.   
I finished well here in the final three holes before, and was able to do it again.   
 Q.  When you look back at that win that you had 12 months ago, does that inspire you to keep plugging away knowing that you're not in your best physical condition?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, absolutely. No one has ever repeated here. It's a packed leaderboard, and like I said, I just want a chance with nine holes to play. I think I'll be pretty satisfied with that.   
 Q.  Three shots back, and you have a chance.  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, I have a chance with 18 holes. Played with Rory every day. He's hitting it nice and putting well. It will be a fun final day.   
 Q.  Let's talk about the first three holes.  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, I had three tap-ins, which were nice. I do enjoy that kind of golf.   
 Q.  Did you feel great coming off the range? Did you feel it was going to be a good day today?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Shaking a little less. My strength is coming back a little bit. Still a little off. I was laughing with my caddie. I had trouble carrying a bunker at 280, which for me is normally, you know, it doesn't matter how I hit it. Normally I swing fast enough -- just take what I can get throughout the day, and it was nice. I don't think I've ever birdied the first three and the last three. So it was a weird day.   
 Q.  You said last year, the final round was quite good fun, and we see you on 17 tee telling jokes and having a chat. Even though it's the heat of competition, it's still relaxed.  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, like I said, been laughing at my bad shots and smiling at my good ones. It's just golf at the end of the day. Of course I want to win and kick everyone's face in, but at the same time, I'm just here to have a good time and have fun.   
I wasn't expecting to play this well at the beginning of the week, so I'm probably the happiest guy here in the tournament.   
 Q.  Could be happier if you win tomorrow.  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Just give myself an opportunity. It's been a long week. Strength is slowly coming back. Just give myself a chance and I'll be able to hold my head high if I do that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT