WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
October 30, 2019
Xander Schauffele
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG: Like to welcome Xander Schauffele in the media centre at the WGC-HSBC Champions.   
Welcome back to Sheshan, and plenty of good memories from last year's win, but before we go into that, maybe you can just give us an update with your health condition.   
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: My voice, I am very sick, so my voice will be in and out. So I apologise if my answers are on the shorter side of things.   
But it's good to be back and hopefully I can do my best to defend.   
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG: The WGC-HSBC Champions is one of four PGA TOUR wins you've had in your career so far. How special was it to win your first WGC title here?   
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Very special. Obviously with my family ties, mom being from Chinese Taipei and having family all over Asia, it's the biggest tournament (win) of my career, and it was a great confidence booster and allowing me to gain self-belief that I do belong out here.   
 Q.  You sound terrible. How is your physical strength?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: I'm about to go to the range after this and we'll see how fast I can swing on TrakMan. So I'll let you know in 30 minutes.   
 Q.  In the past year, we talked not only about your game but also we talk about a lot of media coverage on your family background. You always talk about you and your dad and your mom, so can you elaborate to that us more, how that would affect your game and your approach when you play in China with the ties in China, Japan and all those relationships?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, my family -- they are my closest team. They make me feel very comfortable, especially, for example, at a time right now when I'm sick. I don't want to do a whole lot. My family will step in and take care of a lot of things for me. Besides that, yeah, my dad's been with me since I was very young, every step of the way, same as my mom, supporting from home when she couldn't come out.   
For them both to be here now sharing this experience with me on the road and trying to win tournaments is very special for all of us.   
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG: Xander, thanks for coming up and rest well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT