U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2019
Xander Schauffele
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Tell us about your round today.  Good, bad, in the middle?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: It was great.  I got off to a good start, which I normally don't do for some odd reason, and kind of held on through the tough holes.  Made a few mistakes, obvious bogeys.  Overall, very pleased.  I wanted to shoot 6-under today and shot 4-under, so close.   
 Q.  Happy with the way you played today.  What was the best part of your game today?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Patience, kind of hung in there a little better.  Still made some close management mistakes, which I can always clean up.  But for the most part I bounced back pretty decently.  Yeah, Scott and I had a fun back and forth for a few holes.  He kept saying good half after I tied him and finally he birdied the 12th so he got a skin there.  We were feeding off each other for a few holes there.   
 Q.  What's the mindset when you have guys like what Gary is doing, or Justin, they had that kind of pad and they have to fall back, and do you think about what they're doing?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: You try and get to a number.  All of us are looking at the leaderboards.  I figured if I could get to 10 somehow, which would be a 7, then Gary would see my name, everyone would see my name and I'd be right in the mix.   
Right now Gary is looking at the board, and all he sees is Koepka's name, Rosie is at 8, so -- it is Pebble Beach, so you sort of -- major championship golf, you do look at boards, but you keep your head down for the most part.   
 Q.  How do you feel about the four days?  Wind was never a factor here at Pebble.  Sometimes it is.  Was the course set up fairly, and what do you have to say about that?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, it was great.  I think that everything was very fair.  The fairways weren't too firm.  That could have gotten out of hand.  But they did a good job doing that with all the side hills.  The pin locations were fair.  If the wind picked up, it would be a true what you consider a U.S. Open score with anywhere from even par to 6-under winning.  Like I said, the wind is down, so the scores are low.   
 Q.  What about the pin positions being more difficult today --  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Do I think the pins were more difficult today?   
 Q.  Than they were yesterday?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Greens are so small, I feel like the pins are always in the same position, to be completely honest.  I'll double take on the pin sheet because it seems like it was in the exact same spot as before.  There's so much slope on the greens, and only so many places you can put the pins.  Your hands are tied a little bit.   
 Q.  The USGA has taken it a bit on the chin, especially last year at Shinnecock.  Do you think they've nailed it this year, got it right?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: I'm kind of -- if you hit your ball right, properly, you hit a good putt and you hit a good iron shot, you can kind of -- even with the setup at Shinnecock, I think it sort of weeds out a lot of people, which I don't mind.  There's a big A my team likes to talk about, which is Accepts.  If you can't get accept, then you're never going to play well in the U.S. Open.   
I thought the setup was definitely easier than Shinnecock type, or even in 2010.  But I'm indifferent.  I don't really care, honestly, what the USGA does with the setup.  I'm just here to play.   
 Q.  Some players like Sergio, obviously a major champion, he came in this week and said I can't win this.  He's just in a bad place mentally, as he said himself.  But yourself, you've had some really good results at major championships.  Could you imagine coming into a major and being like, I can't win it?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: You know, I don't think that would happen unless I was hurt.  I think our team does the best of our ability and all across the board to work collectively and get myself in the best shape mentally and the game coming into majors.  I travel with my whole team to majors and no other tournaments.  And I think all the guys out here do the same thing.   
I think we figured out how to prepare properly, and hopefully I'm never in the situation where I don't feel like I'm ready to win.   
 Q.  You played so well in these majors the last couple of years, we've watched you do it.  Brooks Koepka said he counts out 120 of the players prior to a major beginning, he only has to beat 30 or 35.  Do you think that way at all?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: I don't feel as comfortable saying that as Brooks does.   
 Q.  But do you think it?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: You know, majors are tricky, there's a lot of pressure and there's a heavy load on individuals.  I don't think he's far off by saying that statement.  I'd never come out and say it.  If I won four majors, it'd probably be easier to say it.  But until then, they are hard to win.  And he knows that.  But he's like a cockroach, he just won't go away (laughter).   
 Q.  That's going to get -- someone will play that.  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: I was laughing, I was walking down the 9th fairway, and he was 4-under through 8, this guy -- I have a lot of respect for him.  He's doing exactly what he's saying.  If you want to quote me, he is a cockroach, he'll probably laugh at that.   
 Q.  Portrush, how do you feel about that?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: I don't know.   
 Q.  You haven't been there?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: No.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT