DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 13, 2018
Xander Schauffele
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How much are you looking forward to competing this week?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, a lot.  I don't think I'd be out here from San Diego when I'm supposed to be on my off-time if I wasn't looking forward to competing.  Yeah, really excited to be here in Dubai.
Q. Great year for you, second at The Open, great performance at the U.S. Open and of course winning in Shanghai, as well.  What did that win mean to you?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: A confidence booster.  It means we're doing all the right things and moving in the right direction, so it's good to know.
Q. You're playing with some big names.  You're fourth in The Race to Dubai, and that win catapulted you up the rankings.  Must be exciting for you to see your name alongside the Justin Roses and Rory McIlroys and Tommy Fleetwoods of this world.
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, don't forget Molinari.  He's leading the whole thing.
It is really cool, and it's part of the reason why I had to make the trip over.  I don't know how many times I'll be up there.
Obviously it's a goal to be up there every year and be able to compete.  But I figured, might as well take advantage of it this year.
Q. What do you know about this golf course and what do you think will be the biggest test for you around here?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: I played nine holes.  Going to go for the Pro-Am at noon today and do the nine holes.  It seemed like you had to keep the ball in the fairway for the most part.
Wind is tricky, it seems.  Someone was joking it doesn't get too windy, and I walk out on the course and it was blowing 25.  I don't know quite what to expect yet, so hopefully the next two days I'll be able to prepare properly.
Q. How important is a Pro-Am?  The practise rounds must take extra importance when you don't know the golf course?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, exactly.  I think I was one of the only guys to play yesterday.  Most of the guys around here have played a few times.  I'll be taking serious notes and definitely keep my head down the next few days getting ready.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT