SENTRY TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 4, 2019
Xander Schauffele
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  18, it was a heck of a second shot.  Wound up 10 feet.  Tell us about it.  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: It was, I don't know how far out.  I didn't feel like doing the math on the scorecard, we had 255, 257 adjusted front so it was just a 5-wood and made good contact and started it somewhere in the bleachers and let the wind do its thing.   
 Q.  It was a heck of a shot.  I know you wanted the eagle, but nevertheless the birdie was the sixth of the day, no bogeys.  That was a heck of a round of golf.  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, it was clean.  Yesterday I made a lot of mistakes on the back nine and being in San Diego, it's hard to practice in a whole lot of wind.  So we got a little more comfy today versus yesterday.   
 Q.  So today similar conditions.  The wind might have been even a little more today, but you got used to it yesterday?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, it was pretty much east to, northeast, so it was the same direction.  So the lines and everything else was the same for the most part.  As a comfort aspect that definitely helped.   
 Q.  We've seen you win.  You're comfortable in these settings, so you got to be excited about the weekend.  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, it's, every time you put yourself in a situation like this it always helps.  This is only my third year on TOUR but I feel like each time gives me more confidence and I'll get a little more comfortable every time.   
 Q.  So what's prettier?  Maui, Torrey Pines, Pebble Beach?  What do you think?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: I've never really been at Pebble when it's been sunny.  But to be honest this is quite a view you guys -- or the people here have.  So it's awesome.   
 Q.  How would you assess your round out there today?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Bogey-free is always nice.  The course -- or the conditions are pretty windy and definitely helped that the wind was the same as yesterday.  So I got a little more comfortable today and the score showed it.   
 Q.  The wind was the same direction, but it seemed like it might have been a little more gusty today, do you think?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, for sure, but like you said it was the same direction, so most of our lines were identical and all the shots coming into the green were the same wind so that helped a lot.   
 Q.  Did it help you to learn this course a little more over the last couple years, you kind of feel more comfortable with the course?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, it's an uncomfortable walk, but it will never get old and the views also won't get old.  So the more times you can play on a piece of property like this the more it will help.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT