WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
October 27, 2018
Xander Schauffele
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Watching you out there today, looked like one of those rounds that could have gone either way.  Could have been really good.  A lot of lipouts.  What do you take away from today's round?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Got a little bit closer.  Like you said, there are a few lip outs.  Wind was swirling again like the last few days and just happy to come out on top.   
 Q.  The FedExCup is so huge and being able to get off to a good start, what would a win mean?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: A lot.  It's weird to think of the FedExCup already just because it just finished up with Rose winning but it would mean a lot.   
 Q.  What have you learned in your experiences this year that might help you tomorrow?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: I think I'll probably have a word with my caddie tonight.  Try and stick to whatever process we come up with and try and slow down what I do.  There's a lot of decisions to be made out here on the golf course with the wind swirling.  If we can stay in each shot and not get ahead of ourselves, I think that will be the key to success.   
 Q.  Some struggle coming in with the water the last few holes.  Will you change your strategy?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: We'll be looking at the leaderboards.  It's funny today, a few leaderboards were different.  We didn't know who was leading or who was falling back.  Definitely look at the leaderboard and like you said, you can get aggressive on 16 and 17 and 18 if you like.  Just see where you're at.   
 Q.  When you warm up tomorrow, getting ready for your round, is there anything in particular that you will do to get ready?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Pretty much the same stuff.  Try to, that's sort of the key, like I said, not change anything and do the same thing we've been doing the last three days.   
 Q.  May not feel like it but you did make up some ground.  Talk about the way you played out there today?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: I played well.  It was a bit back and forth.  Two too many penalty shots than I'd like, but looking on the broadcast, it seemed like I wasn't the only one hitting in the water.   
The course is tricky.  The wind on the ground, we don't really feel much.  The trees are dense; so once the ball gets up above the trees, it sort of does its own thing.  Just happy to hang in there and come out on top on the day.   
 Q.  Talk about 18 and making that crucial par save to remain at 10-under.  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Obviously I was thinking something more along the lines of a 2-putt birdie.  I really wanted to get in that final group.  I feel like that's an important part of trying to win a golf tournament is to be in that final group.  Tiger talked a lot about that in his interviews when he was younger.   
That was sort of a goal of mine.  I fell asleep or did something weird on that second shot.  So happy to sneak away with a par.   
 Q.  As it looks right now, you might be in the final group if Patrick doesn't make eagle.  Talk about the mind-set heading into Sunday.  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Trying to be aggressive.  The course is tricky still.  Pins seem to be on pretty severe slopes today and assuming it will be no different tomorrow.  The wind was supposed to be more calm today but seemed to be just as weird as yesterday.  So just do the same stuff and see what happens.   
3-under is a good score today.  Obviously I think there was potential for something a little bit lower.  Had a few penalty shots in there just for fun and managed it okay.  Happy with the round.   
 Q.  We noticed the putting, either long putts going in or lipouts; a bit of a mixed bag on the green today?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Just for me personally or just for everyone else?   
 Q.  For everyone else and --  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: I said on the broadcast yesterday, there's so many double-breakers, triple-breakers.  It's hard to leave yourself in that straight sort of flat area.  There's only three or four paces on that side where you have an easy putt.  If you hit to the fat part of the greens, you're going to have something like a double- or triple-breaker.   
 Q.  You mentioned yesterday about the run-offs.  Can you go into more depth how tricky they are?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: It's not something you want to think of from the middle of the fairway if you have a wedge or 9-iron but the run-offs are real.  They will take your ball to a place you don't really want.  You have to pick and choose your spots, especially with the wind kind of swirling in order to be aggressive.   
 Q.  You saw from last year there's not really a lead that's big enough around this course.  Do you have a number in mind for tomorrow?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Not yet.  I don't know what the boys are doing here on 18.  But I can believe that statement.  There's no lead that's safe.  This course, it can bite you quick.  Hit one in the water on 18, got lucky, saved par.   
I was looking on the telly and saw Rosey and Pat on 17.  Like you said, there's no lead that's safe enough, so it's key to keep your head down and try to do your own thing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT