WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
October 26, 2018
Xander Schauffele
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk a little about the conditions.  A lot tougher than yesterday, a lot of people are not running away with this thing?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, it's a weird wind.  I think it's supposed to be northwest, bits of west in it.  You know, feelings of south.  It was just all over the place.  We're all looking up again, just like yesterday, and sort of guessing on what to do.   
 Q.  And then getting to the end of this Asian Swing, everything is clicking for you this week.  Just wondering what you're looking forward to heading into the weekend?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Finishing strong.  You know, like you said, this is the end of the Asian Swing and I'll be shutting it down for a little after this.  I want to go into that break on a good note.   
 Q.  1-under par today.  How do you assess that round?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Interesting.  You know, I had a couple penalty shots, and you know, happy to birdie the last to finish in the red.  But you know, if you look at the leaderboard, no one is really running too far away from it, so it's nice to not go the opposite way today.   
 Q.  Going back to the second, you knocked the second shot in the water but got up-and-down for par.  How important can those up-and-downs be sometimes?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Early in the round, I mean, you feel like, 2, it was a driver, 6-iron, unfortunately bounced in the water.  Had another one on 14.  Hit a good shot.  It hit in that hill and rolled in the water.  It would be nice for them to grow some rough out so the balls will stop, but like you said, those moments, we feel like we should be birdieing those holes, but as long as we're making pars, no harm, no foul.   
 Q.  Anything you're going to change tactically going into the weekend?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: No.  I might go hit a few balls now.  The wind is sort of all over the place.  Supposed to be a little bit calmer tomorrow, so hopefully we can get those red numbers going again.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT