WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
October 25, 2018
Xander Schauffele
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What were you liking out there on the golf course?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: I don't know, it's a good question.  Kept the ball in the fairway for the most part.  We knew it was going to be kind of windy today and a little tricky with the dog legs but yeah, we kept the ball in the fairway for the most part which made the approaches a little easier.   
 Q.  How important is it to get off to a good start in the Asian Swing with the wraparound, and in particular, with the new schedule?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, importance, guys get hot at random parts of the year.  We're all aware of it.  It's obviously nice to come out here to Asia with no cuts and to get off to a nice start.  I'm going to be shutting it down shortly after this, so I definitely want to go into my little off-season with a bang, so we're going to try that.   
 Q.  You knocks on some big doors this year:  You were second at The Open and The PLAYERS, and third at the BMW.  What would it mean to get back into the winner's circle this week?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: I would love to go back to Hawaii.  We're going to give it our all here and see what happens.   
 Q.  When you shut it down, how long will you shut it down for?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: I don't know.  It's a great question.  A bit of a golf nerd, I guess you could say.  I have a hard time stepping away.  When my buddies are at home, I'll usually go play with him.   
Two, three weeks for me of not touching it is a long time, so we'll see what we can do.   
 Q.  You're off to a good start.  What did you work on to get results like this today?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Last week was kind of a strange week for me.  Everyone, I guess most of the field seemed to play all right on that course and I had a 7-under final round.  Sort of worked on some things final round in Korea which we brought into here.   
Just some small tweaks we don't need to discuss.  Everyone's got their little niches in their swings and we retouched on one of them and it seems to be working.   
 Q.  Talk about the confidence; you didn't play well, but to have that Sunday and carry that to China.  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, it's always great to have the momentum swinging through, and hopefully we can keep on doing what we're doing and drag whatever we did today into tomorrow.   
 Q.  And then just what for the next three rounds to you need to improve on and work on?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: I would say it's more continuing, not so much improving.   
Obviously if you can string three more rounds of what I did today, I would have a pretty good look at what's going on.  But if I can sort of continue to stay patient and just do everything that we're supposed to do as pros, I think I'll be all right.   
 Q.  Bogey-free 66, how good was that for you?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: I'll always take a bogey-free round, no matter where we are in the world.   
 Q.  Seven pars to start with and then the birdie.  What was the difference out there?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: It was a little windy.  We got our feet wet through the first couple holes.  Saved a few.  I made a really long par putt early in the round, so I easily could have been over par.  We sort of hung in there and gave ourselves some more looks coming down the stretch.  It was nice to stay bogey-free early and sort of hold on at the end.   
 Q.  What was the key to the game at that stage?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Keep it in the fairway.  The rough is a bit up and the wind was swirling around, especially with the dog legs.  We're all -- you look at the players and caddies, everyone is looking, seeing what's going on.  Being in the fairway definitely helped control the ball just that much more.   
 Q.  Overall looking forward to the rest of the week?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, absolutely.  Thursday is the time to -- you can't win the tournament on Thursday.  It's a cliché that everyone says and it's true.  But I'll take a 66.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT