BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 6, 2018
Xander Schauffele
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Xander, nicely played, particularly just the bogey at 10, 8-under the rest of the way.  What was working right for you today?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah.  It was a hot one and starting the round or before the round I started -- wanted to tell myself to stay focused as much as possible and stay hydrated and kind of limit the mental mistakes.  I think I got away with maybe two today.  But, yeah, happy with the start.
Q. Obviously you know because I know you've mentioned it before, you're a defending champion at the Tour Championship, 41st in FedExCup Points.
You know you have to play well this week to get there.  Does that add much pressure to you?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: No.  It's only a tournament you can win or a playoff event is a tournament you can win, you don't get invited back.  You got to earn every step.  Way.  We're trying to do that.
Q. How well did you play out there today?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: I had no idea what to expect coming in.  The greens were soft.  The fairways are rather wide if you're driving it well.  Rough is thick but I'm not sure how many ones I hit.  We had short to mid irons all day.  I took advantage of that.
Q. Xander, can you just talk about trying to get back to defend your title at East Lake and kind of the challenges of this week trying to move up in the Top 30?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, it's hard.  You know, I think the stats are out whoever won the Tour Championship never made it back the next year.  There's a reason for that.  It's hard.  It's just tricky, you know.
I felt like I was in a good position and sort of my spot dwindled away as I started to play poorly in The Playoffs.  Happy to have this start here.
Q. How much of a sense of urgency, if any, did you come in with this week?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah.  I felt like I approached all the Playoffs the same with that sense of urgency.  Trying and still trying to make the Ryder Cup, obviously, it's going the take a lot for me to make that late push.  But you know, all you can do is try your hardest and sort of see where the cards fall.
Q. Do you feel like this round coming on, did you kind see your game trending upward?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah.  You know, in practice rounds and even tournament rounds I've hit a lot of good shots.  I've made a ton of sort of childish errors I'd call them.  You know, I'm not very old but I feel like I shouldn't be making those mistakes, second year veteran out here.
Today kind of finish with the little mental error, the chip on 18.  I started with a mental error chip and finished with one.  Clearly I got some work to do.
Q. Do you think kind of that's what it's been like the last few months for you?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: There's added pressure for me to try to play really well to make it on the Ryder Cup.  I didn't handle that very well.  Also the way I finished last year, I was supposed to come out -- I felt I was supposed to come out here and win and make it look easy.  It's been quite the contrast.  We're dealing with that and just trying to get better.
Q. Chasing that Ryder Cup spot, I remember talking to you at PGA.  What's the biggest challenge of that, kind of blocking all that out and just going to play?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: At the end of the day like one shot at a time is an old cliche but, obviously, you know, once you start playing well or start playing bad other thoughts creep in and it is what it is.
Just try to play your game and kind of see -- all that stuff is just result.  Winning a tournament is just a result.  Getting on the team is just a result.  If you can kind of handle your business you might do well.
Q. Obviously on the short list for Captain Furyk.  What are your thoughts this week as far as trying to --
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: I said this already a few times.  I feel like I need a win.  Might not be enough.  Tony is an ATM or Top-10 machine, you know.  He's been killing it and playing great golf.  I feel like if I were Jim right now I would pick him, to be completely honest.  I could win and he could finish in 2nd or 3rd and, you know, I'd be happy with my win and wouldn't be disappointed with the year.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT