THE 147TH OPEN
July 22, 2018
Xander Schauffele
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
STUART MOFFATT: We're joined by the joint runner-up in the 147th open, Xander Schauffele.   
Xander, it might not be the result you were hoping for at the start of today.  Can you just give us an idea of what your emotions are following the final round.   
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: A bit of disappointment.  Obviously, when you don't win, you're disappointed.  Hats off to Francesco.  Looked up on 17 and saw he got to minus-8, which is just incredible golf and an incredible finish.   
But, yeah, personally, Jordan and I got off to a weird start feeding off each other in the worst ways possible, and we sort of kind of calmed the sails midround.  I was just happy to have a chance to win with four or five holes to play.   
 Q.  Xander, can you describe how 17 unfolded?  Did you hear a cheer?  Obviously, the approach went right.  What happened there?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: On my iron shot?   
 Q.  Yeah, on the iron shot.  And could you hear what was happening on 18?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: No, I was in my own world, to be completely honest.  I wasn't hearing a whole lot.  I just saw my ball go right, and it was quite all right.   
 Q.  Hi, Xander.  Just what was it like to play in such a chaotic final round where the lead is changing hands and so much is going on, Tiger is up there, Rory's up there?  Just what was it like when you looked around?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Chaotic is probably the best way to put it.  Jordan and I, we got off to a nice, sort of easy-going start, had a couple birdie looks.  And then whatever happened happened, where we just were in the strangest spots possible on the golf course, you know, where we didn't think we would be.  Yeah, every time I looked up at the leaderboard, there's four, five, six guys in the lead, and five, six guys one back.   
So I tried to duck my head after I made double bogey.  I figured looking at the board isn't going to do me any good.  Just happy to claw my way back in a little bit.   
 Q.  Xander, things weren't going for you out there, but you continued to play with a smile on your face, and one of the few players that's not in the zone.  Is that the way you like to play the game and enjoy it as much as anything?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: There's a time where I figured I could get a little ticked off.  I figured the scores weren't -- no one's going to run away.  If I can play a little better golf than the rest of the field through five or six holes, I can pick up some strokes, which is what I did to get back in the lead.   
I play better when I smile.  At times I probably wasn't smiling, but I was having a lot of fun, to be completely honest.   
 Q.  Xander, where's the balance between the bitter disappointment and the satisfaction of having competed so well over four days here?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah.  It's just going to go in the memory bank as a positive.  I had a chance to win a major championship.  I was in the final group.  I had to face a little bit of adversity early in the round, and I still gave myself a chance.  So I can look at it -- anyone can look at it however they want to, but I'm going to look at it as a positive moving forward, and try to learn how to handle the situations a little better next time.   
 Q.  As a San Diegan, were you at the 2008 U.S. Open?  Just what was it like?  Was it any different competing with Tiger making a run here?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: It was actually.  I stood by the tree that's fallen at Torrey Pines, and when Tiger made the putt on 18 to get into the playoff with Rocco.  It was a little bit louder probably when he did that than today was.  I think the winds kind of took over the crowds here.   
It was cool.  I mean, it's hard.  If I was playing in the group with Tiger, maybe it would be a little different, but I can't really speak on that.   
 Q.  I just think it's interesting you were at that tournament in 2008.  Do you have any memories?  Just a spectator or --  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, as a spectator, I was -- I don't like watching golf too much, just to learn a few things from a few guys here and there, attitude, swings and whatnot.  But golf is not as exciting as other sports, but that moment on the 18th green with the arena, with people around, him having to make that 12-footer on crappy poa annua greens, and the roar and the celebration is probably as exciting as you can make golf, and I was happy to be there to share the moment.   
 Q.  What other sports are more exciting than golf?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: By "exciting" I mean more contact.  You know, with a shot clock coming down.  Any other sport really.  Golf is very slow.  You're not supposed to get too chaotic.  When guys have outbreaks and outcries, they get fined, and people make fun of them, where other sports people kind of thrive on that.  So that's what I meant by exciting.   
 Q.  You're a basketball fan?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Honestly, just name the sport -- hockey, football, soccer, basketball.   
 Q.  Cricket?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: I don't know about that one.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT