THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2018
Xander Schauffele
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You're going to finish top-5 in your first time seeing this place, is that correct?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, first PLAYERS appearance.
Q. You're not supposed to be able to do that.  That's not supposed to be that easy to do.  How are you feeling?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: I feel good.  I was talking to someone earlier with the PGA staff saying that Webb's playing such incredible golf he almost takes pressure off of everybody else, the most pressure was on himself.  It looks like he's going to be able to brush this one in and the rest of the field, we're just chasing.  I feel like all of us were just trying to make as many birdies as possible while he was trying to run away from everyone else.  So it was kind of an interesting week.
Q. Have you had success on Pete Dye courses or what was it about this place that agreed with you so much?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: I felt like it was just a week where things slowly started to click, ball striking-wise, I had a long putt go in earlier in the week, it was just one of those weeks where I had a bad attitude early and sort of turned it around and it just kind of shows what a good attitude can do just, because I feel like, if you talked to my team on Tuesday or Wednesday night it wasn't looking too pretty.
Q. What do you mean?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: I was just -- every golfer gets negative and I was sort of in a weird place and they were able to pull me out and I give a lot of credit to them.
Q. And then going forward now where do you go?  What's next for you?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Home.  Then I think Colonial's the next stop, I believe.
Q. Are you close to where you were as Rookie of the Year or are you playing just as good as you were for Rookie of the Year?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: I don't know how to answer that.  It's just good golf.  Anyone that's playing good golf and rolling putts and hitting shots they see I feel like any guy can play on any golf course.  So I feel like I'm just starting to come into whatever form you would call it and looking forward to some more tournaments.
Q. When you got here did you, when you started on Thursday would you have taken 14-under, give me 14-under I'll take it?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Would you?
(Laughter.)  Yeah.  No kidding.  I feel like I played really well and Webb clearly deserves to be the champ.  I don't know what hole he's on, but I feel like he could hit a couple putters off 18 and still win the tournament.  So he's just played incredible golf and hats off to him.
Q. You said that the fact that he was so far out took all the pressure off because there were lots of low rounds today.  Usually that's what it takes to catch somebody.
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, I mean like I said, he knows exactly where he stood, I tried to keep my head down and all I can do is post a number.  If I look up at the board and see that I'm 12 shots back starting the round I'm going to get a little depressed, so I decided to keep my head down and Jimmy and I were sort of feeding off each other midway through the round and we started rolling in some birdies, but I took a peek at the leaderboard and chuckled because I was still eight back I think.  We were all playing for second place.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT