WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 3, 2018
Xander Schauffele
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 5-under par today, excellent group you played with as well of the talk about how much fun that was out there.
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, I feel like I'm getting the full experience playing with Phil and Jon especially when -- all of us are playing well and the fans have just been awesome.
Q. When you play in that kind of group how much are you guys feeding off each other because it just seems like down that stretch it's one great shot after another great shot.  Did you find that with each one that pumped you up to up your game that much more?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, absolutely.  Some of the birdies seemed rather effortless at times, as a group we were all three of us birdieing the same hole a few times on the back nine.  And it just helps when fans are going nuts and Jon or Phil put one down the fairway you kind of just follow suit and that helps a lot.
Q. Going into tomorrow, what's the challenge like playing a course where you know there's a lot of low scores out there potentially and still a crowded leaderboard?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, probably try and keep my head down early, not much you can do on the front nine, but I'm sure the fans and the leaderboards and everything will be telling you what you're doing good or bad.
Q. Those guys sitting up front at 16 kind of love giving everyone a hard time:
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: I think it's funny.  I said earlier, if you don't like that sort of stuff, don't play in the tournament.  You just got to embrace it.
Q. Have they ever said anything that made you laugh?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: It's so loud on 16 that you can't hear anything.  I think the louder it is the better.  Someone can yell something obnoxious and you wouldn't even hear it.
Q. If you had to compare the Phoenix Open to anything what would you compare it to?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Sorry?
Q. I said if you had to compare the Phoenix Open to anything else, what would you compare it to?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: I don't know, some crazy sporting event probably.
Q. Two wins last year, Rookie of the Year, but do you still feel like you have a lot to prove on TOUR this year?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Absolutely.  I'm fresh on TOUR and had a really good season last year and I don't know what people think or say but I feel like I kind of owe it to myself or I need to prove it to myself that I can repeat or do just as well.
Q. What did you make of Phil's save on 10?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: It was funny he came up to the green and he said, I'm scared to go over there.  They're mobbing me and not letting me get out of this circle here.  It was cool.  I told him so many times, I'm like, thanks for doing crazy things, because these fans are going nuts for you.
Q. Do you feel like one of the hometown guys hanging out with them?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: I don't, I get a couple SDSU chants here and there, but for the most part the Sun Devils take over.
Q. That was kind of a wild ride out there.  Have you ever been in a gallery like that?  An all-time record crowd here today.
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: No, what's that number at?
Q. Well we're 200,000.
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: There you go.  No, that's the first.  I know we saw each other one 10 and had a chuckle because it was going bananas.
Q. Can you concentrate in that kind of atmosphere?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, it's weird.  At times it's so loud that it's almost easier to focus versus trying to hush the whole crowd and a couple people yell here and there and you can kind of hear and tell where it's coming from.  But when everyone's yelling you can't really hear anything.
Q. You had a lot of special shots but that was a pretty nifty escape on the 13th hole.
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, the par-5.  That was a little bit of luck.  Ended up in some well and I was smiling when the rules official came over and told me I get a free drop.  So I was happy to kind of work my way out of there.
Q. You won twice on TOUR already, what are your thoughts going into the final round?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: I have limited experience to sort of fall back on and I'm sure hopefully I can kind of give myself a chance coming down the stretch and maybe fall back on some experience from last year.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT