THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 8, 2017
Xander Schauffele
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How would you describe your round?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Hit a lot of greens.  Made a 60-footer.  No complaints really.
Q. What did you see on 12 with that putt?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: I mean, I had my caddie look at it and he was like, Yeah, kind of going a little left to right.  I mean, from 60 feet you get a feel for it, and when you make it it's obviously your day.
Q. What part of your game was really clicking today?  Could you tell your ball striking was fluid to start?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, it's been kind of scrappy ever since the Open.  Just been kind of tired for whatever reason.  You know, fifth or sixth week out here.
But today actually started hitting a lot of solid shots and kind of took advantage of it.
Q. What are you looking to carry over to tomorrow?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Just the same mentality.  You know, you can only do as much as you can with the swing and with putts.  If I can kind if keep this attitude, never know what can happen.
Q. Pleased with the position you're in?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, we were just talking about it.  Any time you make a 60-foot foot putt, kind of downhill, slide-in, you know things are going your way.
Q. Any idea of how you'll react to being in contention?  You've had a lot of good golf in you in the last few weeks in the U.S. Open and the week before.  Don't seem to lack for confidence at all.
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, ever since -- I had a serious lack for a couple months starting the year.  Ever since the U.S. Open I've felt very comfortable out here.  I've never been in a final group really on the tour and kind of looking forward to the opportunity.
I don't really know what's going to go on with by body and how my mind works, but hopefully I can prepare for it properly?
Q. This tournament is about the rookie class and what they've been able to do this year.
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, I mean, our class is just hungry.  We're in a weird spot this year with the Money List and FedExCup and everyone is kind of fighting for position out here.
We got a really good group guys coming from the Web.com tour.  I just think the system the tour put out with the Web.com and the PGA TOUR has really shown the quality of players coming through and the fact that we can kind of hang out here.
It's good on the tour.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT