BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 17, 2017
Xander Schauffele
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Xander, it's always amazing how it comes down to one or two shots.  You just birdied the 18th and walked off with a smile only your face.  The Tour just told you pretty much, pretty much looking pretty good for you.  What does that mean to you?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: You know, we were 2-over through 10, 11 today and 12.  Smiling, shooting 4-under today was incredible.  You're down.   
 Q.  You got the win earlier in the Greenbrier Classic.  How would you summarize 2017?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: A dream year for me, pretty much every goal I came up with and got to start creating some new ones.   
 Q.  Good for you.  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Thank you.   
 Q.  Xander, pressure greater coming down the stretch here or at Greenbrier?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: It's different.  Pretty similar pressure but, overall, I'd say it's different pressure.  Greenbrier you're trying to win.  I don't even know what place I'm in now.   
We know every shot counts and I was chasing really hard.  I was 2-over through I don't even know, 12, something like that, and so the fact that I shot 4-under today, it's incredible.   
 Q.  Were you hiding from the leaderboards, were you embracing your position trying to figure out where you needed to be?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah.  I mean no matter what it was we knew if we shoot 4, 5 today we would have a good shot.  Sitting there 2-over through 11, 12, I didn't have to look at a leaderboard, I knew what I had to do.  To be able to pull it off is pretty special.   
 Q.  Pretty hard to keep your head up at that point when you're 2-over?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Of course.  I told Austin, my caddy, I really didn't want the year to end, we're having so much fun.  Might have a little more fun to finish it off.   
 Q.  What would it mean to potentially be the only rookie at East Lake next week?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah.  It's cool.  It's not really about that.  Golf is an individual sport.  We set goals and try to reach them.   
 Q.  What were your goals?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Tour Championship was one of them, winning was one of them, of course.   
It's funny, my girlfriend she like booked tickets to the Tour championship like before I even won the Greenbrier.  I'm going to take that week off, come out.  Oh, boy, here we go.   
 Q.  How clear of a goal was it before the U.S. Open?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Not that clear.  I didn't even have my card secured at that point.  Once you reach goals you make new ones and I've been making a lot of new ones kind of rapidly, which is always a good thing.   
 Q.  Seem a little surreal to you, the last part of the year?  
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Absolutely.  How can it not be?   
 Q.  You play your last six holes in 6-under par, all projections have you making it all the way to the Tour Championship in Atlanta.  
 Must be a wonderful feeling for you right now.   
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: It's surreal like someone just said and I'm just happy -- I was having fun all year ever since Greenbrier, even before Greenbrier having fun.  Telling Austin I didn't want it to end.  I'm glad we can move on.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT