U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
June 18, 2017
Xander Schauffele
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Can you wrap up your week?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Oh, boy.  Yeah, it was a great experience, being my first major.  I'm really happy with how I finished this final nine.
Q. You said the other day people were like "who is this guy" with the autographs and everything, and they didn't know your name.  Certainly didn't know how to pronounce it.  I think people know your name, and I think they also know how to pronounce it after what you did this week.  Talk about your accomplishments here.
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: I hope so.  Someone still -- a kid this morning asked me if I was a golfer or that was last night, so we'll see.  I think I need to play a little better for a little longer and maybe the name will stick.
But, yeah, I couldn't be happier.  I shot 3-under in my last six or seven.  There is no better way to finish a tournament than that.
Q. Down the stretch, were you looking at leaderboards at all to see where you were potentially?  I don't know if you were thinking about Masters bids or anything like that?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Funny.  I'm just super blue eyed.  I didn't even know tied for fourth gets you into the Masters.  I'm tied 4th right now, and hopefully it stays.
Q. Are you glad you didn't know that?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, probably.  Probably right now.  I mean, yes.
Q. Did anybody talk to you on Tuesday or Wednesday about being in this position right now?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: I mean, I'm not in shock of how well I played.  I've been playing really well for a while now.  I'm just acting like a rookie and making mistakes like a rookie.
Fortunately this course kind of -- it's wide open, and I've been hitting the driver.  My driving stats have been incredible, total distance and fairways, just even in regular PGA TOUR events.  And the course reminded me of Barona Creek, so I honestly wasn't extremely nervous out there.  Bernd was also really calm, and he plays fast, so it was really an easy day.
Q. Was there a story how you got through local or was it pretty easy?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: I mean, just the normal.  It wasn't a playoff for sectional qualifying.
Q. (Inaudible)?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: No, I was exempt through locals.
Q. Are you glad to not have to go through sectionals next year then?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: That's another thing I didn't know.  Thank you.
Q. You're in for next year.
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yes, yes.  That's definitely very nice.
Q. What does this do for you moving forward for the season?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: It just shows me, my team and I are working on the right stuff, keeping my body on the right spot.  Swing coach, dad, putting coach (indiscernible), it helps to play well every once in a while to know that you're doing the right thing and you belong.  That's kind of what I'm going to take from this.
Q. That's the big thing, obviously you have to be successful to be here to begin with.  If you played a major championship, I imagine your head's saying do I really belong out there with this kind of pressure and these players?  What have you learned?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Sure.  A lot of it was just from normal TOUR events.  You know, I've been playing okay.  I've been playing great, I've been scoring okay.  It's just because I'm not comfortable.  This week I was pretty comfortable, and this is kind of what I can do when I'm comfortable.
Q. You've got your Masters degree here today?  I mean, literally, do you sort of feel that way?  I mean, it opens up a lot of doors for you.
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Sure, just from a confidence standpoint.  I don't know all the doors that are opening as of right now, but hopefully a lot of them are opening.  Yeah, I'm just happy.
Q. Does it mean anything playing on Father's Day today?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Of course.  I mean, the joke in our family is every day's Father's Day and every day's Mother's Day.  So I'm sure he's stoked though.  I've yet to post a picture with him, but I'll get to that later.
Q. Where are you going to play next?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Taking a charter to the Travelers.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT