U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
June 16, 2017
Xander Schauffele
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Xander, well done, what is your mindset going into the weekend?  How will you sum it up?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: You know, today I felt like I played the exact same way as I did yesterday.  The wind was up a little bit, couple of trickier pins.  I just didn't make as many putts.  That's kind of what it came down to.  But I probably had closer looks today than I did yesterday, but I made a lot of lengthier putts yesterday.
Q. Your approach now and your mindset going into the weekend, how do you feel?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: I feel good, obviously.  If someone told me I'd be sitting 5-under, however many back in my first U.S. Open, I'd say I'd probably take it.  So I feel good.  I just think the biggest thing is going to be recovery starting right now up through Sunday.  But fatigue will kick in at some point.
Q. Was there a recognition after what you did yesterday, do you feel like more people recognized you out there and maybe were following you and paying more attention to what you were doing?  I mean, anonymity was one day and you didn't have that today?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Absolutely.  It's funny, I'll sign some autographs and kids will be like, dad, who is that?  That's just how it is.  I remember when I was a kid and I didn't know the top 5, one of the top 5 guys in the world wasn't trying to sign my hat, I was like, hey, dad, who is that?  But, yeah.  I'm sure.  It's just two rounds of good golf, and hopefully Schauffele is a pretty weird name to remember.
Q. Is there something about the course that you especially like or something in your game that you like?  Why are you here do you think?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, I've been driving the ball really well.  This is obviously a driver's course.  You've got to be in the fairway to attack any of the pins.  This course, honestly reminded me a little bit of home.  I went to San Diego State and one of our home courses is Barona Creek.  It's bentgrass greens, and it's kind of this open, no-tree look.  I won a PGA event there my senior year.
Last night I was telling my caddie, I really feel like we're playing Barona right now.  The greens are marked up, but it's exactly what I grew up playing on.  So I felt really comfortable.
Q. What was the name of the event?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: The Barona Collegiate or something like that.
Q. Did you hear from everybody down to your third grade teachers last night?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: I actually did.  Yes, I got a bunch of texts.  Just boatloads of support coming in, so it felt really nice.
Q. Anything special you remember?  An old friend you hadn't heard from, or anything that will stick out?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, Mr. Finley, my science teacher from, I think, sixth or seventh grade, maybe, texted me.
Q. How did he get your phone?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: He got it from a kid who is on the golf team in middle school or something like that.
Q. How did he get it?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, right?  I don't know.  It's all good though.
Q. Was it just congratulations?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, he's just really supportive and said his whole crew is following me now.
Q. How would you describe your dad's teaching style and what he's kind of implemented in your game?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: It's very natural.  He didn't allow me to look at my swing on video for several years.  We rarely do lessons nowadays.  Just a couple phone calls here, and this is the first time he's seen my swing in quite sometime now.  So very natural.  Kind of take as much pain off your back as much as possible.  Pain-free has been kind of our motto.  Just have a swing with longevity.
Q. How do you do that?  Is it the length of the swing that takes the pressure off?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: A lot of it too is just I'm new to professional golf.  And every player out here has a physical therapist or chiropractor or something like that.  Taking good care of your body is definitely key, especially on a week like this.
Q. I just wonder how you do that in your golf swing?  How you take pressure off your back?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Just making sure I clear to my left side really.  That's what we work on.  I used to hang back a lot harder when I was younger, and I had a little more back pain.  Now I still hang back a little bit, but I get through the ball clean and have zero pain when I swing.
Q. (Inaudible)?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Man, that kid is just super long off the tee and he's always on the fairway.  With that combination, this course is incredible set-up for him.  I feel like I'm not the shortest guy.  I think the stats don't say I'm the shortest guy, and I can't even sniff where he's hitting the ball.  He's very impressive.
Q. If I can just ask about your family, a family of great sporting heritage.  How mindful are you of that?  How does that help benefit you?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yes, my dad's side of the family were very athletic.  My dad was as well.  It may not look like it now (smiling).  But I think a lot of it was when he was being trained for the Olympics, all the breathing and the techniques of concentration and focus and how to kind of control your mind is what I take most from it.
Q. Especially Cameron, you, maybe surprised guys getting to the top of the leaderboard.  Do you feel like the two of you pushed each other in a positive way these two days?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, absolutely.  Even Trey, I said it yesterday.  I don't know what the average fairways hit in our group is, but it's got to be pretty high.  When you have two guys hitting in front of you left and right, it's definitely not the greatest visualization you can have when you hit a tee shot.  First off, I usually hit in the fairway.  If one of them is first off, you know, we were all just hitting the fairway all day.
Q. Xander, Rickie Fowler has played 29 majors and hasn't won one.  People make a lot out of that.  He's prepared to win one.  He's been through a process.  What has prepared you for your chance here this week?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: I mean, it's pretty bold to compare the two there.
Q. Well, in general.
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: I think me being a little naive has almost prepared me for this situation.  Just coming in blue-eyed, really.
Yesterday was a bonus round for me.  I qualified for this a couple Mondays ago.  I have a limited schedule as a rookie on the PGA TOUR, so I have nothing to lose coming out here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT