SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 30, 2016
Xander Schauffele
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You started the day five shots behind the leaders.  For you what was the mindset, and did it change after holing out for eagle from the fairway there on No. 2?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: No, it sort of changed after I holed out on 15.  Yeah, that's when I had a look at the leaderboard, and said, co-leading, wow.  My mindset today also was just to come in here and top 10.  I was one outside of Vegas, and I think John Peterson withdrew, so that put me in.  But all these guys can top 10 and kick me out, so I figured I might as well jump the train.
Q. With all that said, obviously as a rookie with reshuffles and everything like that, it's important to play well early here.  What do you take out of the day where you played well in the heat of competition in the final round of a PGA TOUR event?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: A lot of confidence.  I finished last year 26th, went to the Playoffs, got through, and now I'm on the bubble with all these PGA events, so I figured I was labeled the bubble boy for a couple months, on the Web TOUR last year, and figure I'm on the bubble again, so it's turned out to be a comfy spot apparently.
Q. You had not one, not two, but three deuces on the scorecard here in the final round.  Two of those were for eagles.  Tell me about the second hole.
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Second hole, we hit it to the left.  We were actually on the collar in a sandy divot, and I hate to say, but I was aiming for center green, but the collar kind of pulled my club a little left and actually pulled it right in the hole, so we were happy with that one.
Q. And then 15, you can make eagle there, you can make double bogey.  You hole out a bunker shot for your second eagle of the round.
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: 15 was a little more standard, I'd say, it was just a standard bunker shot, and if you just get it going, everything kind of feeds towards the cup, so lucky enough to go in.
Q. You're not a big guy, a lot of people watching you play for the very first time.  You possess an awful lot of power off the tee.
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, I've always kind of hit it far.  My dad is my swing coach, and since I was 13 he wanted me to hit it far, and he said we can figure out the putting and everything else later.
Q. Really great job.  You only had 45 feet in putts today because you kept holing out from the fairway.
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: I'll take it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT