NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 25, 2016
Xander Schauffele
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You're at 7-under total currently in a tie for 10th this week and entered the week 25th on the finals Money List, so should be enough to get that PGA TOUR card, but can't say for sure, but regardless you put your self in a much better position this week.
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, definitely.  I was joking around saying I won't be happy until I get the TOUR-bound post by you guys on your Instagram.  So, yeah, I mean, it was very, I was very nervous coming in.  That was probably the most pressure 2-footer I ever had in my life.  So I kind of knew where I was and knew what I needed to do.
Q. Were you calculating any, like thinking of the situation on the back nine at all?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: I kind of had an idea going into the tournament what I needed to do, but no, I just tried to do one, the good old one shot at a time, even though it was almost impossible.
Q. What was your -- you had an idea, what was that idea?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Top-10.  Obviously, it can't be a 15-way tie for 10th, but I figured how this course play, it wouldn't be.  So hopefully it's enough.
Q. Your season started at Q-School, you got that card just on the number, and you were 25th in the regular season and you're 26th I mean and you --
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Yeah, thanks.
Q. I know.  Sorry.  You had been riding that bubble but for now it's looking like you're kind of going to be off the bubble in the last week?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: That was another one of my goals, top-10 and hopefully someone else can take the bubble boy reputation away from me.
Q. Because you were on that bubble mantra, how were you able to keep playing good and maintaining your form with that kind of outside pressure?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: Just feed off of what we have done the entire second half of the season.  My caddie and I, we have a good system going and it makes me feel more comfortable every shot I hit and every good yardage he gives me, just all these small things add up and I just totally felt comfortable at the end.
Q. When you left college did you think it would come this quickly, a TOUR card?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: No, everything I've done in my life I've always been slower, never really won a whole lot, always was kind of like on the outside looking in, that kind of deal.  So I guess the bubble boy thing does work.  But don't talk about that though.  I don't want to hear it.  But, no, absolutely not.  So, at every level, junior, college, pro, I've always been slow.
Q. What have these last two months been like?  You've gone from potentially going back to Q-School to potentially heading to the PGA TOUR in two months?
XANDER SCHAUFFELE: I don't know, it's been a whirl of emotions and I definitely feel very fortunate.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT