FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 26, 2013
Stewart Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DOUG MILNE:   Stewart, thanks for coming in for a few minutes.   If we could get an update on your end what we've been looking at this day so far and what we're looking at moving forward? 
    STEWART WILLIAMS:   Well, it's just very unfortunate, because, like Mark said, we really didn't have‑‑ we had a few sprinkles around this morning and then the rain passed on to the east.   But, unfortunately, we've had a light southwest flow, and the atmosphere from the ground all the way up to about 10,000 feet is totally saturated.   So, basically, we've got 100% humidity through a big huge column like that. 
    So with the low sun angle that we have and the elevation of Torrey Pines, it's just a perfect scenario for the fog.   That little bit of sun we did get today was overpowered by just the saturation of the atmosphere, so we just couldn't overcome it today.

Q.   Is it fog or a marine layer? 
    STEWART WILLIAMS:   Well, west coast they call it marine layer.   But, technically, it's still fog, whether it's from the ocean or over the land or whatever.   It's still fog.   That's what it is.

Q.   How many miles inland did you have to go to get sun? 
    STEWART WILLIAMS:   You didn't have to go far at all.   I was looking at all the observations like Oceanside and Carlsbad and San Diego, and they had pockets today where they went down to 8th or a quarter of a mile.   But a lot of the day they were sitting at 4‑ or 5‑mile visibilities. 
    So, you know, if we were in any other location, we'd have played a lot of golf today.   But I think just the elevation of where we are here just really hurt us.

Q.   What is the forecast? 
    STEWART WILLIAMS:   Forecast for tomorrow?   Well, I think when we come in in the morning we do have a shot, a chance for some showers.   There is another system that's going to be dropping southward and bring another shower chance.   So if it's not raining in the morning, we'll stay socked in and still have fog issues to deal with. 
    But I'm really hoping that we do start raining, and that will mix the atmosphere some, and that will help lift this fog deck.   Then we'll just play in some light rain.   But as we go through the day though, as this front progresses towards us and moves through us, the wind is expected to pick up especially in the afternoon, 10 to 15 miles an hour, and that would definitely help us out a lot.

Q.   Kind of ironic that you guys have to root for rain? 
    STEWART WILLIAMS:   Yeah, exactly,   but the wind, too.   We're rooting for the wind, too, because that will mix things up and definitely help us out.

Q.   We just heard that we're going to play 72, essentially, no matter what happens.   Right now do you envision that as a possibility? 
    STEWART WILLIAMS:   Oh, absolutely.   We've still got two full days just to get 72 holes in.   We're already playing two tees.   We get a big chunk in tomorrow and we don't have much to do on Monday.   So Monday looks‑‑ Monday's starting to look a lot better, and it's definitely going to be cooler.   So it's going to be cold for Southern California standards, but we'll play in that.

Q.   What does Tuesday look like? 
    STEWART WILLIAMS:   Oh, beautiful, of course, in the 60s.

Q.   Stewart, when is the last time you set up in a media center and addressed weather conditions? 
    STEWART WILLIAMS:   I do it a couple times a year, yeah.   Last year we had that big windstorm at the AT&T in Washington, D.C., so we had that big windstorm there.   And the year before that we dealt with the hurricane that was going toward New Jersey and we shortened that tournament, so it happens. 
    If I had my druthers, it would be sunny and 72 every day, and I'd be nonexistent. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT