NHL ENTRY DRAFT
June 26, 1999
Nick Boynton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Your feelings about being picked by the Bruins with the draft being here in '99, Ray
Bourque being there to hand you the sweater. 
 
 NICK BOYNTON: Well, that was an honor, having him up there. I don't know what to say.
It's a lot better the second time around, that's for sure. I'm in awe. I didn't know where
I was going to go. To go here is just a great feeling. 
 
Q. Do you have any reaction that Washington let you go, but Boston picked you up? Do
you have any reaction about what Washington did to you? 
 
 NICK BOYNTON: No, not really. You know, they didn't want me. That's fine. I'm glad
somebody else did, that's all. 
 
Q. Who are you represented by and what was really the stumbling block? Were you going
for 975 right away or 925 at the time? 
 
 NICK BOYNTON: Anton Thun is my agent. But Washington never offered me a contract, so we
didn't -- we hadn't negotiated in 12 months. They pulled their offer off the table. There
really wasn't an issue there.  
 
Q. It's always nice to get picked by the team hosting the draft. Can you talk about the
reception you got out there?
 
 NICK BOYNTON: It was great. To hear them cheering when Ray Bourque and the Bruins were
walking up onto the stage, I mean, I was worried I was going to get booed. I'm glad that
didn't happen. 
 
Q. With the Bruins having so much young talent, coming to a young team, how does that
make you feel?
 
 NICK BOYNTON: It's great. You know, I just -- I want a chance. I know the Bruins will
give me a chance. That's all I can ask for. It's a really good feeling.  
 
Q. The Bruins have talked a lot about needing forwards and needing scoring punch. They
take you with their first pick. What do you think you bring to the table and how soon do
you think you'll be ready? 
 
 NICK BOYNTON: Well, I hope to be ready for this year. I played four years as a junior.
We won the Memorial cup this year. That's pretty much it for me and Junior. I'd like to be
able to make the step right away. I'm pretty confident that I can. You know, just help the
team any way that they want me to. Anything they ask, I'll do. 
 
Q. You went ninth overall two years ago. You fell to 21 this year. Disappointed? 
 
 NICK BOYNTON: No, not at all. I didn't expect to go as high. It's a great feeling that
the Boston Bruins picked me. I couldn't be happier. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT