NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: PENGUINS VS SENATORS
May 12, 2017
Pierre Dorion
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How does it feel to be here?
PIERRE DORION: It feels great I think that for our organization, taking a step forward that we wanted to take, being one of the Final Four teams is a great thing for our organization and for our players.
Q. Did you anticipate, could you expect this?
PIERRE DORION: No.  I think that a year ago when Guy and I kind of had a plan for this team, we never expected to be here, but at the same time I think the players took it upon themselves to prove to us that they were of caliber worthy of the Playoffs and since we have got in the Playoffs I think they have taken it upon themselves to always seem to rise to the challenge.
Q. What about the buy-in you've gotten from the team this year and Guy's style of play, were they resistant at times, it has been before, but has it been here?
PIERRE DORION: I think I think I talked about this before, a lot of our players have made personal sacrifices for team sacrifices.  I think our players were really willing to embrace and accept Guy's system right from the get-go.  I think that started right with our captain.  I think they got a tremendous relationship between Guy and Erik and I think that's translated throughout our team.  So, I just feel that it was the right, Guy was the right coach, we really feel comfortable with the decision that we made and I think that at this point in time we're in the Final Four teams that are playing and it's exciting or our city, our organization and all of our players.
Q. You watched Erik since he was a young guy, in what ways do you think he's improved this year?
PIERRE DORION: I watched him since he's been 17 years old and I've been telling a lots of people in the NHL and around the world that we always felt that he was one of the best players in the league.  I think this year he has really bought into what Guy's tried to tell him to do.  I think he's kept his shifts shorter and when we interviewed Guy we spent a lot of time talking about Erik and he was adamant that he was a very good defender and he felt he was going to use him on the PK and we just saw it in the last game in Game 6 of the series, he played just over six minutes of the last eight minutes.  So I think that tells you something, if you would have asked a lot of people at the end of last year, Erik's going to play almost over six out of the last eight minutes in a one game, one goal game lead, I don't think a lot of people would have believed you, but we saw how good he was in those last eight minutes.
Q. You talked about it sort of breakthrough moment for these guys, how do you get them to get that edge and not just sort of be happy to be here?
PIERRE DORION: Well to me the most telling point was after we beat the Rangers, the players looked really happy, but a lot of them weren't completely satisfied with what we have accomplished so far this year.  They know the task at hand's going to be very difficult.  We're playing the defending Cup champions.  We're playing a team that has so many weapons we're playing a team that their goaltending has been outstanding in the Playoffs so, they know it won't be easy, but I don't think a lot of people picked us to beat the Rangers I don't think many people picked us to beat the Bruins but the players have done a great job and I think that they know what's at stake, they know what they need to do to give the Penguins a run for their money.
Q. Any predictions?
PIERRE DORION: It's going to be a very hard fought series, it won't be won in four or five and if so, whichever team wins, they will deserve a lot of credit.  I think every series is in the last round every series went to six or seven games, and the first round of the Playoffs were outstanding.  Second round of the Playoffs -- I can't wait to watch the game tonight at nine o'clock.  As much as I'm a general manager, I think I'm a fan too and the Playoffs have been unbelievable this year.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT