COLLEGE WORLD SERIES: BATON ROUGE REGIONAL
June 4, 2017
Wayne Graham
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Rice - 9, SE Louisiana - 5   
WAYNE GRAHAM: Well, obviously Kendal Jefferies gave us what we needed from the start, and Dane Myers did the rest of it.  I thought we got good pitching against a very good hitting team, and I thought we hit the ball well, and that's the story of the game.   
 Q.  Wayne, you said Kendal would start last night, then for the lineup earlier had Myers and then you went to Kendal right before the game.  What was the thinking on the pitching, and how did you finally make that decision to go with Kendal?  
WAYNE GRAHAM: We were thinking about the weather really, and the more we thought about it, Dane hadn't worked long all year.  I thought Kendal had a little bit of chance to get five or even six, and Dane, you could see Dane was probably tiring a little bit in the last inning, and he's going to play first base the second game, so he'd better get a second win.  But the pitchers did a good job.  That team can hit.   
 Q.  What's your pitching look like for the championship game tonight?  
WAYNE GRAHAM: We'll start Addison Moss, and then we'll take volunteers.  He's a rested guy and he has good stuff.  He throws strikes, and he has a history of that.  We'll do okay.   
 Q.  Second year in a row you eliminated Southeastern from this exact tournament.  Just talk a little bit about playing them and doing the same thing two years in a row.  
WAYNE GRAHAM: Well, they still have a winning record against us this year.  They beat us at home two out of three, and we were very fortunate to beat them again because they're tough.  They run the bases extremely well, and they hit well.  They're just a good ballclub.  There's a reason they were rated I think in the top 30 RPI in the country.   
 Q.  I wanted to ask about Myers.  You said he was going to start but you had him at first base yesterday and today, he had that catch right there at your dugout where he fell over to catch that foul ball.  Talk about his ability to play first pitch and then come in and pitch.  
WAYNE GRAHAM: I told him to take a nap.  That's all I ever needed.  15-minute nap, it'll bring him back.  He's young.  We'll see how he is.  He's a tough kid.   
 Q.  After the first couple of games, obviously this is going to be kind of a pick me up for your team, thinking that they can play some quality ball again I've got to imagine?  
WAYNE GRAHAM: Yeah, well, we played quality ball in the conference tournament.  We were up against teams -- the teams we beat in the conference tournament were all in the top 50 or 60 in the country, so that was kind of a confidence builder, and I think another one here.  Southeastern Louisiana certainly.  We can hit with people, and if we get to pitching, we can play with them.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT