NCAA BASEBALL CHAMPIONSHIP REGIONALS: BATON ROUGE
June 4, 2016
Wayne Graham
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
WAYNE GRAHAM: Well, it's certainly different.  I don't know whether I've ever been in this much rain before, but how the game so far, obviously we're happy where we are now, but we'd better be ready tomorrow.  That's a good ballclub we're playing.  They can swing the bat.   
I thought Blake has pitched real well.  He's pitched real well all year and he hasn't caught any breaks.  Hopefully our reliever can give him one tomorrow and he can get a win, we hope.   
 Q.  Big day so far for Proctor, too.  
WAYNE GRAHAM: Proctor has been good for us all year.  He's had a good first year, freshman year, Conference USA, and he's a good player defensively and offensively.   
 Q.  You kind of mentioned it, you've been around awhile.  Have you ever been through anything like this, and what do you tell your team to kind of keep them going and keep through this through all this rain and things like that?  
WAYNE GRAHAM: Serenity Prayer.  Control what you can.  There you go.   
 Q.  Have you made a decision on who you will start in the final three innings?  
WAYNE GRAHAM: We're going to have Myers.  Myers is a strike-thrower.  We think he can handle it.  And obviously Otto is there if we need him.   
 Q.  What's the biggest concern in these situations:  Losing focus, momentum, energy?  
WAYNE GRAHAM: Yeah, I thought we caught a break in Blake getting to the end of his pitch count and getting as many innings out of Blake as we could.  He couldn't have gone more than one more, anyway.   
So it worked out.  In that aspect, it worked out well.  Now we just got to close the deal.   
 Q.  Speaking of closing the deal, how tough is it to keep your foot on the pedal for 12 hours?  
WAYNE GRAHAM: Well, you know, we're going to get them up at the right time and feed them at the right time, and the rest is up to them.   
 Q.  You said earlier this week, you were worried about pitching depth.  Are you still concerned with that going forward since you could play two tomorrow and two the next day; how worried are you about that at this point?  
WAYNE GRAHAM: You know what they say about pitching.  When you think you've got enough, go get some more, and we can't go get any more now, so we better take care of what we got.   
We can have enough, definitely, we can stay in the winner's bracket, but anybody gets in the losing bracket is in trouble.   
 Q.  With Duplantier pitching, regardless win or lose tomorrow, would he start the next game?  
WAYNE GRAHAM: That's a question, I don't want to have to answer it, but I haven't made up my mind on that really.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT