NCAA BASEBALL CHAMPIONSHIP REGIONALS: BATON ROUGE
June 6, 2016
Wayne Graham
Ricardo Salinas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Rice - 15, Southeastern Louisiana - 0   
WAYNE GRAHAM: Well, we knew we were in pretty good shape today because Rickie is obviously one of our top pitchers, and we were hoping we wouldn't have to use him today but you get in the losers, that's what happens.  He pitched great.  We collided with the ball a lot today.  One of our better days hitting.  Sometimes when it rains, it pours, and we got a lot of hits.   
THE MODERATOR: That's a good analogy to use this week, Coach.   
Would you talk about your outing a little bit?   
RICARDO SALINAS: I felt good going into the game.  Felt good with all three of my pitches, fastball, curveball, changeup, and going into the game, I just wanted to make sure I get the job done.  Hope we see another game.   
THE MODERATOR: Through six, the only two hits you gave up were to the same young man, Daniel Midyett.  Maybe talk about that a little bit.   
RICARDO SALINAS: Well, I didn't know that till now.  But I guess he had my number.   
 Q.  How big was it to have Rickie go so deep in the game, knowing you guys have to play again tonight, and do you have pitching plans for against LSU tonight?  
WAYNE GRAHAM: Yeah, we've got some guys that have pitched that are not pitched out, like Myers and actually Otto can handle innings.  There's others, Esquivel, Kravetz; it's just how well they pitch that matters.   
 Q.  Who will be the starter?  
WAYNE GRAHAM: Myers.   
 Q.  You got a lot of production out of the bottom of your lineup.  How big was that?  I know you moved Chandler down in the lineup to get it from Lewis, Chandler and Kopycinski?  
WAYNE GRAHAM: I'm trying to shake -- just give Chandler a change of scenery down there and hope he'll start hitting, because he's a talented guy.  He kind of opened things up early for us.   
It's good to see those guys hitting, because that gives us a chance if the whole lineup is hitting like that, and there were a lot of good swings out there today.   
 Q.  To get that early run support, how big was that for you for your confidence to kind of get into a groove?  
RICARDO SALINAS: It felt good.  It always feels good pitching with a run lead, especially early.  I'm just glad and grateful that we got a good run lead early.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT