NCAA BASEBALL CHAMPIONSHIP REGIONALS: BATON ROUGE
June 5, 2016
Blake Fox
Wayne Graham
Dane Myers
Ford Proctor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LSU - 4, Rice - 2
WAYNE GRAHAM: Well, obviously Blake set the tone by pitching six quality innings.  And you know, Myers came in, did a good job, too.  And we had some quality at-bats.  Teykl had a good game; Proctor had a good game.  So those guys are really good, and we are proud to beat them.  It's about all I can say about it.
THE MODERATOR: Blake, this was a long time ago, but try to refresh your memory.  You gave up three hits.  The big out was in the fifth inning when the guy lined out to center field, maybe talk about your outing.
BLAKE FOX: It was a great play and that was definitely the biggest point of the game for us it.   Could have gone either way and I'm glad we have a guy out there like Ryan Chandler who has got a lot of speed.  That was good.
Started off strong, and stuff started to leave me a little bit.  So from then on, it was just going out there and battling, trying to persevere and using my defense, and they were good yesterday, as well.
There were some timely errors on their part for us to score the first two runs, so that was clutch.  And then from then, we just poured on the hits.  It was a fun win.
THE MODERATOR: Ford, big day at the plate for you, three singles yesterday.  Talk about your plate appearances, please.
FORD PROCTOR: It's tough to kind of stay focused through all the rain and all the delays or whatever.  But we just tried to stay focused and stick with the plan that we've had, rain delays or not.
THE MODERATOR: Dane, if you would talk a little about, I know you knew you were pitching yesterday before the rain got us for the second time.  Talk about your preparation and then also today.
DANE MYERS: Coming into today, I was ready to pitch yesterday, but coming in today, I just wanted to backup Foxy since he had such a good outing and just be aggressive going at the hitters and let my defense work like they did.
Q. Just the way the conference title game ended, how nice was it to finally get that bad taste out of your mouths and get a win?
FORD PROCTOR: It's definitely tough sitting on that loss for, what was it, a week almost.  It was a tough loss, but you have to come back from losses.  It's post-season now, so it's a whole new ballgame, and we'll be ready to play.
Q. Dane, what was it like; it wasn't a start, but it kind of was.  What was it kind of like that, process for you?
DANE MYERS: It was definitely weird.  Coming into today, like I said, I was ready to pitch yesterday.  It just takes a lot of focus to stay prepared and come in and do my job.
Q. To Coach and to Ford, when you have a close to 24-hour rain delay, how much mental toughness does it take to stay locked in and be able to pull out a victory like this?
FORD PROCTOR: It is tough, because we're here, we're back at the hotel, back here, back at the hotel and we even have to sleep on it and come back this morning and play.
But we're prepared for that.  We knew coming in that the rain would be a factor, so we just tried to stay even keel and stay focused on the game, even while we weren't at the field.
WAYNE GRAHAM: Well, I have confidence that these guys have been through enough to know, and they don't break no curfews, I don't think; we haven't caught 'em.   So I think they are ready to play and they are having fun playing.  That's the main thing.
Q. For Blake and Dane, y'all's mind-set against Jameson Fisher, I know Coach Graham mentioned y'all wanted to limit the number of times he would beat y'all, I think he only had one hit and y'all intentionally walked him in a second at-bat.  What was that like, and do you feel like y'all were successful on him today, or yesterday?
BLAKE FOX: So we knew he was a good hitter coming into it, like everyone knows, he's one of the best hitters in the nation right now.  Our job as pitchers is to go out there and just treat him like he's just another hitter.  And you have to acknowledge his strengths, but you also have to work to your strengths.
His first debut against me, I was able to work to my strengths.  The second AB it was timely for us to walk him.  And the third AB was a tribute to how good of a hitter he is.  I threw a pitch where I wanted it and he recognized it and he got his hit, so there's that.
DANE MYERS: Yeah, I watched Fox pitch yesterday to Fisher, and like you say, he's a great hitter.  So knowing how good he is, just like Fox said, just pitching to our strengths and making a good pitch to him is going to get the Jameson, so that's what I tried to do.
Q. The double-play that Ford and the second baseman, how big was that for you after you hit the first guy just to equal any threat?
DANE MYERS: That was a pretty big out.  That was good for my confidence knowing that was a really tough play for Grayson and Ford.  I just wanted to go at him.  I was just trusting my defense like I said and they were able to make the play for me.
Q. Obviously your next opponent being LSU, how much do you know about the team, and also, with the guy that you're starting on the mound, what advantages does he give you guys?
WAYNE GRAHAM: Ain't nobody got an advantage over him.  He's one of the best in the country.  All-American last year.  That's Lange, isn't it?  That's who is pitching, right?
THE MODERATOR: They haven't announced it.
WAYNE GRAHAM: I assume so.
Everybody's got all the film in the world on everybody else.  So you make your preparations, but if a guy's making good pitches, you've got your work cut out for you, and he can make some of the best.
So we are going to try to get our hitters to be disciplined and really work.  You're going to have to work hard to beat language.  Ain't nothing wrong with him, is there, physically.  (Laughter.)
Q. You and the hitters have a mental approach against Lange, and if he's the pitcher, and I know y'all faced good pitchers before, but what do you do when you know you've got a great arm on the mound?
FORD PROCTOR: Yeah, I mean obviously he's a great pitcher.  He's got a great arm and has great stuff.  But like Coach said, everyone has film of everyone, so we are going to do everything we can to prepare for him and prepare for the game tonight.
Q. I was actually asking about Jon, if that's the guy that you're pitching in tonight's game, what advantage does he give y'all as far as on the mound?
WAYNE GRAHAM: Actually Lange and Duplantier throw very similar stuff.  It will be who has the best command I think, because Jon has got outstanding stuff along with Lange.  It's going to be real interesting as a coach and as an observer.  I can't throw it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT