TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 3, 2011
Darrin Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q. Can you talk about your performance tonight, how you played in your first game?
 DARIN MOORE: I felt like I did pretty good, minus the couple of fumbles I had. I got a lot of man coverage. So Doege was able to put the ball up and I was able to go make some plays.

 Q. Would you talk about the first catch, the one for 40 yards? That seemed -- you guys were down 10-0. That seemed to kind of reboot the team, energized you, and a couple of plays later you get the touchdown to Marquez. Talk about that catch and did you feel the same way you felt like it was a reboot for the team and everybody settled down?
 DARIN MOORE: Yeah, definitely. Every time somebody has a big play, I think it's a big boost for the sidelines, for the crowd, and it gets the momentum going.

 Q. You had so many passes at camp and passes, sideline rails, do you think it's because you're more physical with the cornerbacks or are you just outjumping them?
 DARIN MOORE: Doege is just putting the ball on point and I'm just trying to do my job.

 Q. Did you see Seth get more comfortable as the game went on?
 DARIN MOORE: Yes, definitely. I thought the whole team got more comfortable as the game went on.

 Q. Can you talk about just what the last five weeks or so emotionally (inaudible), how you're able to concentrate and play as well as you have?
 DARIN MOORE: Last month, it's been pretty hard. After I came back to camp, I felt like I tried to kind of block it out in my mind. And just tried to use it as motivation. 

 Q. Can you talk about the receiving corps last year graduated a couple guys, now you have some guys to step up, how do you feel about yourself and the other receivers that Tech has this season?
 DARIN MOORE: I feel like last year's receivers, Lyle and Detron, they were both great receivers. I learned a lot a lot from both of them. But I feel like the receivers we have now can do the same things they did plus more.

 Q. Talk about the relationship between you and Seth Doege. Looked like you were all clicking really well tonight, 221 yards receiving. 
 DARIN MOORE: Yeah, me and Seth have a real good relationship. I mean, day after day, in the summer, spring, I mean, getting extra work after practice. We worked a lot together. So I feel like we've got a pretty good relationship.

 Q. What were you thinking when the dust blew in?
 DARIN MOORE: I was like: What? Come on now. Supposed to be playing in this? Are they supposed to stop the game or what? 

 Q. That clearly affected Seth as a quarterback, but how did the wind affect you as a receiver?
 DARIN MOORE: Once the wind first blew, it got in my eyes a little bit, but I don't think it was that big of a deal. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT