AL DIVISION SERIES: TWINS v ATHLETICS
October 6, 2002
Brad Radke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Questions for Brad.  What were your emotions in the dugout in the ninth inning?

BRAD RADKE:  I don't know.  It was weird.  I mean, it was very strange the way I felt, and those guys over there, they don't quit either, they have a great ball club and, you know, we knew Eddie was going to shut the door on them, it was a little scary there in the ninth but Eddie  came through and the bullpen came through, and so did the offense, it was a team victory today.

Q.  Going back to the year when you signed your contract extension, how much imagination did it take to perhaps see a day like today?

BRAD RADKE:  Imagination, you know, was kind of  -- it was kind of a hope, you know, that one of these years we are going to do something special, and, you know, I felt a couple years ago that the talent that they were bringing in was going to be good for us, we just had to wait around for a few years, and that's what everybody else thought, too, and, you know, it's  -- I mean, a lot of those guys that were rookies a few years ago, they have been really been stepping up the last couple years and it's been a lot of fun.

Q.  How were you feeling when you got taken out with two outs in the 7th?

BRAD RADKE:  I still felt pretty good.  I could have stayed out there, you know, but Gardy (Inaudible) that were up, the changeup that I got on the pop-up was kind of  -- it was up a little bit, but I knew I was getting the ball up and I felt like I could have made the adjustment.

Q.  You have had good success with the Angels.  Can you explain why?

BRAD RADKE:  Not really.  That's the game of baseball.  Some people do well against other teams, some  -- you know, I struggled against Cleveland.  They have been my nemesis for as long as I have been here, and it's just Angels is just one of those teams that I pitch well against, and hopefully we can go into the series and play some good baseball.

Q.  Off-season contraction talk, do you think the media pays  more attention to that than the players?

BRAD RADKE:  In the off-season when it did happen we were kind of down about it and  -- but we stayed strong and it's a strong baseball team and, no, we don't really think about that.  Say we go on to win it all, you know, yeah, we are going to be out there, we are going to be shooting the breeze, but that's still a long way to go.  We have a tough series next week against the Angels.

Q.  What did you think of Guzy's play, even though you weren't on the mound, and did you throw your normal ratio change-ups?

BRAD RADKE:  Yeah, I threw a lot of change-ups today.  Biggest thing of that is keeping it down the zone.  I had a lot of guys go after that change-up down in the dirt, which is big for me.  And Guzy's play, that was unbelievable.  J.C. got that glove on that ball and Guzy came in tough and made a great play. 

Q.  Do you believe in fate and is this (inaudible) and does Minnesota deserve a baseball team?

BRAD RADKE:  Yeah, I think  -- I don't want to say it's destiny, but we just have to go out there and play our game and, and, I think this was the best game we played in the series, and we just have to take this game and go on into Tuesday and just play our game, pitch our game, and just play our defense.  And what was the second question? 

Q.  Does Minnesota deserve a baseball team?

BRAD RADKE:  Of course.  They have got a lot of guys in the Hall of Fame, they have a lot of history in Minneapolis, and the fans, you know, you saw the last couple days in Minnesota, you know, the fans will be there and they will support this team, and that's what this baseball team needs.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT