NHL DRAFT
June 22, 2018
Matthew Tkachuk
Keith Tkachuk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
KEITH TKACHUK: It's real exciting to be able to do it once with one child and a couple years later, doing it with another one.  They made it a little easier, seeing what he went through but I'm happy for Brady because he's such a great person.  He's worked hard and sometimes when you're the younger brother of a dad who has played and an older brother who has started his career, it's tough and it leads to high expectations.   
I thought he handled it well and it was nice to see him get rewarded tonight.   
MATTHEW TKACHUK: I love it.  He deserves it, like you said, nicest kid.  He deserves it.  We just saw him right there.  He looks so happy right now.  He's so giddy.  It's like he's five years old again.  I was so happy for him.  He deserves it.   
 Q.  Do you look forward to going to the corner some day with him?  
MATTHEW TKACHUK: Yeah, should be fun.  We've never played with each other, so I'm sure he'll be there that first game we play against each other, that's for sure.   
 Q.  All the headlines coming out of Ottawa, were you concerned?  
KEITH TKACHUK: It wasn't great the stuff coming out, but the people in there are going to straighten things out.  You know, it's tough because I wasn't there.   
But obviously Brady is a character kid that, you know, stuff like that weren't bother him but hopefully down the road when he's ready to play, you know, everything will be good and he can move on and make playoffs and try to contend for Stanley Cups.   
 Q.  Is that something you're going to discuss with Pierre?  
KEITH TKACHUK: We had a brief conversation before the draft but it was all good.  It's a business.  He's got to do what's best for his franchise.  You know, we're going to do what's best for Brady.  But overall, we're really happy.   
 Q.  Are you at all surprise there had been talk between him and Phil lip flipping back and forth between that spot?  
KEITH TKACHUK: I've been through this, at the tables and the meetings, and expect the unexpected.  You know, no matter what, whether he got picked fourth, seventh, 12th, if doesn't matter.  It's what you do after this but it's nice that he beat his brother.   
 Q.  Is he ready to play in the NHL?  
KEITH TKACHUK: Yeah, we'll determine that.  It's up to Brady.  He's going to have a good summer.  He decided to move up to Toronto with his brother to work out with Gary Roberts.  We're going to have a long talk.  We haven't really discussed it but most likely going to move back and we'll see what happens.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT