NBA DRAFT 2019
June 20, 2019
Romeo Langford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  If you could just describe your style of play and what you'll bring to the Celtics.  
ROMEO LANGFORD: I see myself as just real smooth.  I think I'm a real versatile player.  I feel I can play multiple positions.  I can do a lot.  Whatever the team needs to be done.   
 Q.  40 years ago the Boston Celtics drafted this other guy from Indiana, Larry Bird.  I was curious if that kind of went through your mind when your name was called by them.  
ROMEO LANGFORD: Really just a sigh of relief.  Just really thankful and blessed to be able to picked at the No. 14 spot and also by the Boston Celtics.   
 Q.  Are you familiar with Bird's career?  He's an Indiana legend who played in Boston.  
ROMEO LANGFORD: Yeah.  I never really watched him play, but I am familiar with Larry Bird.  Yes, sir.   
 Q.  You spoke yesterday about not really working out for teams.  Were you at all ever concerned about how that might impact your kind of status, and how did you convince teams, look at my body of work?  
ROMEO LANGFORD: I felt like that had a little bit to do with it. But I felt like I've showcased a lot playing at Indiana, also, my time in high school.  These guys, they know what I'm capable of doing.  I think that's why the Boston Celtics saw something in me and I think that's why they decided to pick me at the 14 spot.   
 Q.  What do you know about the Celtics, about kind of the way they run things as a franchise and about the team?  Obviously there are some changes coming there, and how do you feel like you might fit in?  
ROMEO LANGFORD: It's a really, really good, historic organization.  They're coming off a real good year.  Making it to the playoffs and doing well in the playoffs.  I just feel like the team that they have, everybody is real versatile.  It's like they really play positionless basketball.  That's what I excel at.   
 Q.  Your shooting numbers, you struggled a little bit and it was reported that you had a little bit of a problem with your thumb.  Where are you at with that, and do you see your shooting improving as that gets better into next year?  
ROMEO LANGFORD: Yeah, I hurt my thumb this year.  I felt like that did have a little bit of reason why I shot the ball the way I did.  But right now I'm getting back into the swing of things.  Got my cast off.  I'm doing some rehab and therapy.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT