INDIANA UNIVERSITY BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 6, 2018
Romeo Langford
Evan Fitzner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Indiana - 104, Chicago State - 55
Q. Romeo, talk about the pressure, the emotion coming in playing in your first game tonight?
ROMEO LANGFORD: It really was no pressure.  Emotions were high.  Couldn't wait, all of our freshmen, just to get out here get our first game under our belt.  Felt real good.
Q. Romeo, your thoughts on the way Rob played, especially just the calmness --
ROMEO LANGFORD: I felt Rob played real well.  He didn't play like a freshman guard's first game in Assembly Hall.  He showed that he can pass the ball and everything that he's capable of doing.  He basically translated his game from high school into college, off this game pretty well.
Q. Took a few minutes to get that first basket.  How much were you looking (inaudible) of the game?
ROMEO LANGFORD: My job is to attack.  And I was just attacking.  And people were getting on me and left my teammates open.  And I was just making the right basketball play and let the game come to me.
Q. Evan, talk about the team defense, especially in the second half, especially the start of the season.
EVAN FITZNER: I say that's definitely an area that we need to improve in.  Coach talked about that after the game.  I think we can do a lot better defensively, be tougher.  They ran some stuff that we haven't seen before.  So we've got to do a better job of adjusting to that.
Q. Evan, you seem like you were the beneficiary of some pretty good passing tonight.  Can you talk about some of the passing?
EVAN FITZNER: Yeah, Coach talked a lot about how he wants us to be a team that shares the ball with one another.  And I think that's how you win games is sharing the ball, finding the open man.  Keep everyone happy.  And like you said I was the beneficiary of that tonight.  And we'll see, hopefully we can continue to share the ball moving forward.
Q. Following up on that, ever had a prettier (inaudible)?
EVAN FITZNER: That was nice.  Great pass.
Q. (Inaudible)?
EVAN FITZNER: I didn't even see him look at me, to be honest.  I don't know how he saw me, really, but somehow he saw me and finished the layup.
Q. Romeo, you hit the baseline jumper for your first pass (inaudible) three-minute stretch.  Was anything happening in that period that got you going?
ROMEO LANGFORD: I guess that jumper.  (Laughter).  To see the ball go through the net, that's all I really need.  I just need to see that first shot go down and it's all good for me from there.
Q. Evan, your thoughts on Phinisee.  You played with and against some really good point guards.  What did you think of him first game?
EVAN FITZNER: To be honest, I'm not really used to a freshman coming in and being that tough mentally.  Physically, I think he can definitely hold his own.  And he has shown that in our scrimmages.  And tonight again.  If he can continue that, it's going to help us a lot.
Q. Romeo, what has helped you with the transition to have this kind of opening night?
ROMEO LANGFORD: Really my trainers before I got here like in June and then also just the preparation from the coaching staff from June all the way until preseason.
Q. You've been in games like this where you're up comfortably and the game isn't competitive in the second half.  What can you still get out of the situations in a game like this?
EVAN FITZNER: I think one of the big things is guys that might not play as much, they get quality movements that could be big for our team moving forward, because you never know when you're going to get your chance to get out there.  It's good for guys that don't play as much to get experience.  And you want to try to not get complacent at any point.  So just keep pushing it like we did.
Q. Either of you guys, Devonte 15 points off the bench tonight.  Obviously finally healthy.  What difference did he make on both ends of the court, really?
ROMEO LANGFORD: He made a big difference just to be able to come off the bench and have that experience from last year to back up Rob tonight.  And we really in the scrimmage we played we kind of missed his presence just having a backup guard with experience like that.  And I felt like he played real well both on defense and offense getting people open shots.
Q. Romeo, you were able to get to your spots pretty easily tonight, get to the basket.  Was there something about their defense or something about your offensive scheme that allows you to do that?
ROMEO LANGFORD: Yeah, we worked a lot this week on the advance pass.  And I felt that's what I was good on the ball mainly on advance passes.  And the defense was a success.  I needed to open the court, go do the things I'm best at.
Q. Romeo, saw Devonte and Rob playing together for a little bit tonight.  How do they complement each other and what might allow them to share some minutes on the court together moving forward?
ROMEO LANGFORD: Devonte, he's a real good scorer as well as a passer.  But I felt like scoring is his main thing.  And Rob can pass the ball really well.  So just letting Devonte play without the ball for a little bit, when they're both in the game at the same time, opens the court up even more for guys like me and Evan and J-Mo.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT