INDIANA UNIVERSITY BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
February 7, 2019
Romeo Langford
Juwan Morgan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Iowa - 77, Indiana - 72
JUWAN MORGAN: The mindset was there, I think really the execution wasn't, and you have to credit Iowa for analyzing of those things.
Q. Third straight home loss for you guys.  Is there anything you need to do better to harness the crowd in the building --
JUWAN MORGAN: I think it's just, you know, you answered your own question in there, just harnessing the crowd in there, the energy, really getting over that hump where we get the lead from ten to six to four to three.
I think that's when we really need to use the crowd behind us and really get that one stop that they been looking for for the whole game and then going to capitalize on offense.
Q. There's been a few instances where you found yourself in foul trouble.  Is it a product of your position or anything that you can do or keep in mind moving forward that could maybe avoid some of these situations?
JUWAN MORGAN: I think it's a little bit of both.  I they have to be more mindful of where I'm at and the time to score, just some of those were, you know, a layup where we're down two, a layup won't really hurt us, so I cannot really, just let it go but not fouling in that situation.  Then a couple other times, I thought I was just, you know, in the right place at the right time and they told me I wasn't.  If the ref calls it a fall, it's a foul, so you can't really argue it.
Q. For either of you guys, Iowa had a lot of late-clock buckets.  How much of it do you feel it was your defense not closing out a possession or Iowa hitting tough shots?
ROMEO LANGFORD: I think it was a little bit of both.  We had good defense for the majority of the game and like majority of the shot clock and sometimes we kind of loosened up and let them get a late, late shot clock point or maybe just fouling them.  Also down the stretch, No. 3 hit like three or four big-time shots down late in the shot clock.  So we have to give credit to them for hitting clutch shots.
Q. Weiskamp and Bohannon hit so many threes, but they have so many guys on the team that are able to make shots.  How tough is it to account for that many threats on the floor at one time?
JUWAN MORGAN: You know, that's a tough situation to deal with, but at the same time you just have to be locked in and you have to know who you're guarding and always have a hand in the face.
The guys, the D-I players, they are going to hit shots, but at the same time you have to make them as uncomfortable as you can and make them earn every single shot.
I think he was really getting lost and the defense getting himself lost and his teammates were finding him, so we have to give credit to their offense on that.
Q. Took you a while to figure out there zone.  What did you guys struggle with early and what did you manage to figure out as the game went on?
JUWAN MORGAN: We were just kind of -- hopped on the perimeter for a little bit but I think as the game went on, De'Ron in the middle, myself in the middle, Evan in the middle, we just really started getting the ball into the paint and then passing out to perimeter shooters.
And I think even when they helped us with shots, they were still making the defense have to work by driving the baseline, driving the middle, make them have to find the other shooters and making them have to guard three, four, five extra passes.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT