BARBASOL CHAMPIONSHIP
July 23, 2018
Tom Lovelady
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You tried hard.  I mean, it was a great effort.  Can you talk a little bit about the conditions today.  
TOM LOVELADY: Yeah, I mean, obviously it was a little wet.  But the front nine, it was just kind of stale.  I couldn't really get anything going.  I birdied both the par-s and killed whatever momentum that I had.   
Turning to the back I just still couldn't get anything going until I made the eagle.  I still kept giving myself looks, but there is just a lot of slope around the holes and it's tough to make putts.   
Had a really good two-putt on 17.   
You know, the shot on 18 I didn't hit as close as I wanted, but the putt wasn't far from going in.   
I gave it everything I had.  One shot short, but got a lot of momentum moving forward.   
 Q.  Playing with Troy you knew what you had to do.  Does that help you or is it harder?  
TOM LOVELADY: You know, neither, because you don't really want to play your opponent.  You just want to play your game, and whatever happens, happens.   
I played the best I could.  I didn't give up.  I just fell one shot short.   
 Q.  Talk about the 18th hole.  
TOM LOVELADY: Yeah, it was 176 yards down and off the right; 166 to clear the slope, just over it.   
I tried to work a 9 with the wind to carry the slope and kick forward and mishit it a little bit and just came up a little bit short.  The putt was actually a lot straighter than it looked.  It just didn't turn to the right.   
But it's all good.   
 Q.  Can you just talk about the Barbasol being here and the course, what you thought of it, the whole works.  
TOM LOVELADY: I thought it was awesome.  I understand how much rain we got, but it was pretty impressive how, not only the fairways, but especially the greens, the greens were really good.  The fairways were wet, but you can't really do anything about it.   
The course was set up great.  There were more fans than I thought there would be.  Everything around the event was really nice.   
 Q.  How hard was it with all the stopping starting?  I'm sure you've been through similar things like that before.  
TOM LOVELADY: Yeah.   
 Q.  Got to be a little bit frustrating.  
TOM LOVELADY: It was frustrating.  Luckily I didn't have to start and stop.  I didn't play any golf.  Ended up getting just a good practice session in.   
The couple days before, you know, I'm not -- actually my second round got called Friday afternoon and had to come out Saturday morning and putt twice and then start again.   
That was really about it for me.  Wasn't that bad luckily.  I'm sure other people got the short end of the stick there.   
 Q.  What kind of momentum do you take from this?  Are you playing Canada?  
TOM LOVELADY: I am.  Yeah, I mean, this is the best I've ever driven the ball off the tee.  I put a new shaft in play last week, and that really helped and this really helped a bunch.   
So my ball flight is straighter.  It's actually going a little farther, I believe.  Just bent greens are what I grew up on, so putting especially, I can see the lines a little better.   
I believe we'll be going to bent greens next week I would assume.  Just keep doing what I'm doing.   
 Q.  Good deal.  Happy birthday.  
TOM LOVELADY: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT