NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 2, 2017
Tom Lovelady
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What was clicking so well out there for you?  
TOM LOVELADY: I gave myself a lot of birdie putts.  That was really the key.  So a lot of stress-free pars.  Early on I kind of made a couple silly bogeys, but that's just going to happen.  I just kind of kept my foot on the gas and just kept giving myself putts and hitting a bunch of good shots.   
 Q.  With the cold and the rain -- we've had a lot of rain this year, but not as many -- it's one of the colder weeks of the year.  Is there anything different you feel like you need to do with those conditions or just kind of business as usual?  
TOM LOVELADY: No.  Just stick to what I've been doing.  It's not much fun to play in, but everybody's gotta play in it.  And just have that mindset that everybody has to play in it, so just have the best attitude you can with it.   
 Q.  Coming into these finals having a good end of the regular season and trending up and knowing you have four separate chances here, how do you describe your approach going into these four overall?  
TOM LOVELADY: Right.  Yeah.  I mean it's the same as it was in regular season.  Just play well.  If it happens, it happens.  If not, you know, it doesn't.  I'm not going to change anything today from tomorrow.  Just do the best I can and just see what happens.   
 Q.  You have two roommates, one in the finals.  Did you talk to them about how to approach these four weeks?  
TOM LOVELADY: To be honest, I really haven't.  I don't really know what else to say.  I haven't really talked to them.  Obviously playing well in the finals is nice.  And you know, it gets you to where you want to be, but at the end of the day I just gotta keep playing my game and see where it takes me.   
 Q.  Justin won here three years ago.  Did you by any chance watch that?  
TOM LOVELADY: I remember -- I think we had a college event that week, so we kind of watched the end of it.  And he told me to call him if I had any questions about the course, and I kind of forgot to do that, so I've just been kind of all on my own and just having a lot of fun with it.   
 Q.  The 18th hole here is kind of unique with the line off the tee.  What's your strategy for that tee shot?  
TOM LOVELADY: Yesterday I drove it in the greens, so I had bunker, whether it was accidental or aiming there, I'm not going to go there.  But it's kind of tough because it bends left and I hit a fade.  Just try to hit it as straight as I can and just hit it forward and hope it misses all the trees, to be honest with you.   
 Q.  And getting that nice round you'll have a later time tomorrow so you won't need to get up as early.  Do you have a nice game tonight or what are your thoughts?  
TOM LOVELADY: Oh, man, ever since I woke up, I just couldn't stop smiling.  I can't wait.  Football season is the best time of year, and first Saturday.  So it's going to be a lot of fun.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT