ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 17, 2013
Sam Little
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  SAM LITTLE:   Really pleased with that.   
Last year I played here and played solid, was 2‑under for the week and finished 19th.   I know anything under par is a good round around here.   And getting up when you're supposed to be going to bed is kind of difficult, so I'm really pleased with the way I played.   
I've been playing well for a while, but I've had no form at all.   Been scoring poorly.   I've been working really hard and hopefully I can‑‑ three more rounds like that, who knows.   
   
 Q.   Relaxed or tense about the situation?   
SAM LITTLE:   Very relaxed.   I'm way down.   I have to finish top two, I believe, and I've come here to do that.   It's pretty much win or nothing.   So conservative, but still aggressive.   But just trying to enjoy this week.  
   
 Q.   Kind of silly, isn't it, there's bound to be anxiety in the situation because your career is at stake.   
SAM LITTLE:   I've entered the Tour School already and pretty much resigned myself to that fact, but I've had a good start now, so why not go and try and win it.   But if I don't, I'll go to the school.   
   
 Q.   And you do like the place, it's worth the effort coming all the way.   
PETER HEDBLOM:   Like I said, I played well last year.   It's a nice environment.   The crowds are great.   The course is fantastic.   I enjoy being here.  
   
 Q.   Tell me some of the details of coming down, how long have you been here, how long to acclimatise?   
SAM LITTLE:   I arrived Monday lunch time.   Came Emirates through Dubai.   Left Sunday morning and I was a bit jet‑lagged Monday I must admit.   
Last night I reckon I had about three hours sleep, up until about midnight and up until four o'clock.   It was a real struggle last night, felt awful.   But I'm going to have a little nap this afternoon.   
Once you get going, it's just another round of golf and you just‑‑ four and a half hours you've got to concentrate and do what you can.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT