THE EUROPEAN OPEN
May 28, 2009
Sam Little
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   SAM LITTLE: I started on the back nine. Started pretty slow really and made a good birdie on the par 513th and then a lovely birdie on 17 to get me to 2-under, a bit of a frustrating day. Then got going, I birdied 4 and a lovely birdie on No. 6 and a beautiful birdie on 7 and a birdie on 9. So four birdies in the last six holes. Nice way to finish. 

 Q. The reward for patience? 
 SAM LITTLE: Absolutely. Putted well today, even though I missed a couple, but I still kept believing and stayed patient. 
 I'm very happy. It's a good start. I didn't fair too well here last year, so it's nice to get off to a good start this week. 
 The last two weeks I started to play better, decent week in Ireland, played well last week at Wentworth, not great finish, but four rounds made. I just changed coach over the last month or so and starting to see some rewards. 

 Q. What brought about the change? Just the need to freshen things up?
 SAM LITTLE: Yeah, I need to freshen things up and start hitting it a little bit better. Because when I hit it better, my putting improves, as well. Everyone's happy.

 Q. One of those things where you say, Sam, you ought to try this? 
 SAM LITTLE: Not really. It took a while, first two weeks in Seville and Italy, I missed both cuts, but I could see the changes, and stayed patient, and long may this continue. 
 Ireland was obviously very tough, and the weekend got blown away a little bit, Saturday especially, but decent week. Wentworth last week, I played lovely the first two rounds, played with John Daly on the Saturday, which was a real treat, and I enjoyed it. I enjoyed Wentworth, and obviously been nice to finish better than 59th, but taking it to this week and done that. 
 He's a great fellow and obviously hits it miles. There's crowd everywhere. It was just a joy really. He's a smashing fellow. 

 Q. And he's so approachable. 
 SAM LITTLE: Absolutely, he's nice as pie. You wouldn't think he's won two majors and superstardom that he's had, and obviously he's down a little bit now but it's great to see him in Europe. I know he enjoys it out here and hope he continues to play out here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT