ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 21, 2017
Larry Fedora
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LARRY FEDORA: We're excited about this game.  We getting to to their stadium and play in front of a hostile crowd.  It will be against a really good football team, so it should be a heck of a game.
Q. To look at your team, there's obviously been some adversity this season.  But to have two wins most recently, what can you say about building morale and looking to finish strong with this rivalry game in the state of North Carolina?
LARRY FEDORA: This game is obviously very important for us, I mean, in the state and going forward.  We have built a little bit of momentum in this football team with all these young guys that are playing.  Every positive thing that can happen is important to us going forward.  So we want to finish strong.
Q. As far as the quarterbacks that you've had out there, you've had multiple guys behind center and Chaz and Nathan, and Brandon as well, is what you can say that you've taken away as you look to build for your future as you're obviously working through your present at that quarterback position, and what some of those takeaways have been from the guys that you've had?
LARRY FEDORA: Yeah, I think each and every one of those guys has gotten a little better as the season has gone on.  Nathan has jumped in and taken advantage of his opportunity and he's taking care of the football, which always enables you to have a chance.  So I'm impressed with all of them.  Impressed with the development that they've had and I'm excited because they're all young and they've got a chance to be really good.
Q. As you look at Chubb on film this week, what jumps out at you to explain why he's emerged as one of the better defensive players in the country this year?
LARRY FEDORA: Well, he was that same player last year also.  I don't know if he got the credit that he deserved last year but he's getting it this year.  He's a very strong, very twitchy, explosive player that makes plays throughout the game and does a lot, whether he's rushing the passer or he's squeezing the run or he's dropping into coverage.
Q. What kind of onus does that put on your offensive line to constantly be aware of him and give him extra attention, perhaps, because of how impactful he is?
LARRY FEDORA: Well, you've always got to be aware of where he is.  He's going to make plays and you've got to do everything that you can in your scheme to make sure that he does doesn't single-handedly beat you.
Q. Going back through all your coaching career, even back as far as high school, have you ever had a season like this, anything like this in terms of the losses and the injuries?
LARRY FEDORA: No, I haven't, not 30 years I've never experienced anything like this.
Q. I mean, what are you going to do in the off-season?  How will you get over this?  How will you move on, and what will you take away from what has been a disaster in some ways?
LARRY FEDORA: Well, we'll learn from everything that we've done.  We've gotten better as a football team.  We've had a lot of young guys that have been forced into playing and have gotten some valuable reps which is going to make them even better.  So we'll continue to do the things.  I don't think that we need to really worry about what we do, because what we do is proven.
We just need to pick it up and from where we leave at the end of this season, jump into the off-season, and have a great off-season and spring ball and summer.  You know, get better as a football team.
Q. Will you double down and work even harder?  Is that even fair to ask?
LARRY FEDORA: Let me ask this, if I said I was going to work harder, then that means I haven't been working as hard as I could up to this point.  So I can't tell you that I will work any harder.
Q. Larry, I apologize for the uncomfortable question, but I think it must be asked.  At what stage are you in the grieving process that this is Mike's last regular season teleconference?
LARRY FEDORA: You know what?  This has been a tough phone call just thinking about this moment.  Knowing that this would be the last time that Mike and I are on a call together, it's really tough.  But being so close to Thanksgiving, I can count my blessings to the many, many times that I've had the opportunity to hear his voice.
Mike, in all seriousness, you know I'm going to miss you, man, and thanks for the relationship that we have.  It's been a blast.
MIKE FINN: It's been totally my pleasure.  Take care.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT