ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 25, 2017
Larry Fedora
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LARRY FEDORA: We're looking forward to the top-10 team coming into our stadium.  Mark has these guys playing at a very high level.  They're taking care of the football.  They're creating turnovers on defense, playing really good on special teams.  We are looking forward to this weekend.
Q. I'm doing a story on a number of coaches, including one or two in the ACC, that are struggling in their third year in a program.  That was kind of the story for you, you guys kind of struggled in year three, then made a big jump in year four.  As you look back on that particular portion of your career, what do you remember about that third year?  Was there youth and inexperience that you were working through?  What kind of confidence did you have you were going to make a big jump the next season?
LARRY FEDORA: Looking back on that in '14, we didn't have a very big senior class.  We were coming off of some -- dealing with some sanctions from the NCAA from before I got here.  We did not have close to a full load of scholarships.  It was a battle.  It was a battle early in the year.
We kind of turned the corner.  We went to a bowl game, had some success there.  That just kind of started the process for the next season.
Q. Early in that season, with few seniors, you were pretty young, didn't have necessarily a lot of leaders, how did you handle the noise that was maybe going around, turning that team into something that ultimately became really good seasons after that?
LARRY FEDORA: We knew we had some good, young talent.  It just had to be developed.  So it was more about the coaches had to provide the leadership because we didn't have a whole lot of leadership.
When things aren't going good, that's when your leaders have to emerge.  We counted on some younger guys to try to lead.  It was difficult for them to do that under those circumstances.  But they really became good leaders in the future.  They all learned from the reps that they had gotten in that season, which made them all better as we went on.
Q. Chazz Surratt, health-wise how is he doing?  Will he be able this weekend?
LARRY FEDORA: Yeah, he'll be available.  I think he's beat up, just like everybody else is in college football.  But he'll be available, yes.
Q. Will he start?
LARRY FEDORA: We'll make that decision probably sometime Friday.
Q. You mentioned all the ways Miami is playing well right now, offense, defense and special teams.  What in particular stands out about them defensively?
LARRY FEDORA: Well, defensively they do a lot to disrupt, a lot of movement up front, a lot of tackles for loss.  They pressure quite a bit.  They play multiple coverages on the back end.  They're doing a lot of things, and they're doing it well.  They got guys running to the football.
Q. Offensively, they've got a young quarterback who seems to have a lot of good talent around him.  What do you see on film from him?
LARRY FEDORA: Yeah, I tell you what, the most impressive thing about him is his development in taking care of the football.  That's what he's done a tremendous job of.
Mark has done a great job with him, because they know they're playing good on defense, they're playing good on special teams, so if we don't turn the football over, we have a chance to win.  That's the reason they're the eighth team in the country.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT