ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 27, 2017
Larry Fedora
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LARRY FEDORA: Yeah, we're looking forward to another hard-fought Coastal Division battle against Georgia Tech.
Q. Your quarterback Chazz, it was a loss to Duke, but what have you seen him do as far as coming through the fall and into this most recent game?  What are you seeing as positives and where do you want to see growth?
LARRY FEDORA: Well, first of all, I've seen a lot of growth in Chaz just in one and maturing within the offense, understanding that he's growing as far as understanding that he just has to stay within the system.  If he stays within the system, good things usually happen.  He's been very accurate with the ball.  He's throwing some really good balls.  He hasn't really forced many things, and he's run the ball very effectively.  He's doing the things that we need him to do to be successful, all we've got to do is he can't push and he's got to take care of the football.
Q. And you brought up running the ball; looking at the backfield, I know that going into this season, a lot of new names back there, just what you can say about what you've seen from your rushing attack up to this point.
LARRY FEDORA: Well, we've got to get more production out of our running backs.  Both our young guys are doing a good job, we've just got to get more production out of them, and that's a combination of everybody, that's the offensive line, the tight ends, the receivers, and them, and making sure that we get every inch we can.
Q. Playing Georgia Tech, I know every year you guys play them, but does this seem like each week, every time you play them, you have to get ready for the option, and this year they actually added a quarterback in Marshall who does a very good job passing the football, 13 of 14 times?  How do you prepare for a team like that because Paul Johnson teams are always tough to play?
LARRY FEDORA: Yeah, Paul does an unbelievable job with the option and that offense.  I've said before, he probably knows that offense better than anybody out there, and he makes adjustments within a game according to what you're trying to do to stop him.  He does a great job with it, and he's got a quarterback that's able to run the option efficiently for him, but at the same time, he's got a guy that can hurt with his arm.  It makes it a little bit tougher.  You've got to stop what you're doing.  You've got to become a very self-disciplined team and have a really good idea of how to stop the option, and then you've got to be able to make sure you're disciplined enough with your eyes that you can be where you need to be on the passes.
Q. And what are the three things that you'd like to see this weekend from your club to pull out a win down there in Atlanta?
LARRY FEDORA: Well, we've got to take care of the football on offense.  We've got to be -- we need to execute, and on defense, we need to steal a possession somehow, and special teams we need to create a game-changing play.
Q. Obviously rough start for your team this year.  What concerns you the most as you look at your team over the first four games, and how much does injuries kind of impact your ability to fix things?
LARRY FEDORA: Well, I don't know the answer to how much does injuries impact it, but we all know it impacts it.  The toughest thing right now is trying to get some type of continuity so that we can get some execution, especially on offense, and we're -- you know, we're sputtering.  It's a player here, it's a player there, and you know, we just have to get as many reps as we possibly can in practice so that we can execute.
Q. What have been the biggest surprises in your mind over the last month?
LARRY FEDORA: The biggest surprises in my mind?
Q. With your team, what's surprised you about your team?
LARRY FEDORA: That's a good question.  You know, the biggest -- I would say probably that we've been in the lead in all four games, and we didn't -- and we haven't finished.  That would probably be the biggest surprise to me because we've done a good job of that in the past, and so this team still has to learn how to finish.  We've been in position to win four games, and we haven't gotten it done.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT