ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 20, 2017
Larry Fedora
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LARRY FEDORA: We're looking forward to hosting our first Coastal Division opponent, and know that David will have -- he's got a team that's 3-0 and riding very high and they are playing extremely well right now.  So we will have to play a really good game to handle this team that's coming in here.   
 Q.  Sorry to ask you to go back, but I know you were pretty well in control of the game when ODU made the switch at quarterback, but what did you see from the freshman they brought?  
LARRY FEDORA: He's a pretty talented kid.  I think that Bobby Wilder has one that's going to be good for him in the future.  He's a kid that can run and throw.   
 Q.  And as you geared up for that game, did you have any sort of preparation for him, or were you kind of going on the fly?  
LARRY FEDORA: No.  We had no idea he was going to play.   
 Q.  What kind of growth have you seen in your young quarterback, Chazz Surratt, from August through September now?  
LARRY FEDORA: Well, one, you're seeing he's more comfortable.  I'm not going to say that the game has slowed down for him but he's definitely more comfortable out there in the offense.  I think he has a better understanding of what we're trying to achieve.   
You know, there's still things that are moving really fast for him.  And as we feed a little bit of the offense to him each and every week, he picks up on it and he's doing a good job of not making the same mistake twice.   
 Q.  Have you gotten any feedback -- September is an unusual month for Duke and Carolina to be playing.  It used to be end of the year and last we're was a little earlier in November, and now it's in September.  Have you gotten any feedback from maybe the old-time fan base about just the time of the year this game is being played?  
LARRY FEDORA: Well, it's the earliest that the game has ever been played in the 104 meetings.  Yeah, I've had a lot of people that have said, golly, why are we playing so early.  It is what it is.  They got them on a schedule at this state.  I don't really know why.   
I think going forward, I think you're going to see more games like this early in the year to help with the TV package.   
 Q.  And just your impressions of what you've seen so far of Duke on film and the particular problems that they cause.  
LARRY FEDORA: Yeah, I think this is by far the best overall Duke team that I've seen in my five years here.  I think defensively, they feel -- they are really strong in a lot of areas.  They are running and creating a lot of pressure for you.  I think they are doing a great job on third down.   
You look at them offensively, he's got the quarterback now that fits what he wants to do, and the kid has experience.  He can run and throw.  They have got speed in the areas where they need to have speed and so I think it's by far in my opinion the best talent-wise and the way they are playing right now and the teams that we've seen in the last five years from them.   
 Q.  When you say this is the best team you've seen in five years, what are they doing better than they have done before?  
LARRY FEDORA: I think their pressure execution is really good on defense.  I think offensively, just running the system that David is wanting to run right now with Daniel Jones, I think it really fits the quarterback and the kid really understands it.  I think they have always had some guys that made plays, but I'm just looking overall, both offense and defense, and both those phases, I just think together it's the best that I've seen in the last five years.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT