ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 22, 2016
Larry Fedora
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








COACH FEDORA: Our guys are preparing for a short week, playing one of our in-state rivals, and they are looking forward to playing so.  We've got a lot of work to do to get prepared for this game and to have our team ready.
Q. Looking at this team, like you said, in-state rival, what can you say about the coach on the other side what Dave Doeren has been able to do with this team and your thoughts on him?
COACH FEDORA: I think Dave's very close to having this team over the hump, I really do.  They have lost some excruciating, close games, but he still has his guys believing.  I know they are going to come in here expecting to win this game and get Bowl eligible, so I'd say he and his staff have done a nice job with them.
Q. With their running game and Matt Dayes and everything has been able to do this season, can you compare him to anybody and what can you say about watching him on film?
COACH FEDORA: Well, I don't know that I would compare him to anybody.  I'd just say he's very explosive.  He runs hard.  He finishes all of his runs, so he's always going for it.  He's a physical-style runner but he can also take it the distance.  He's a guy that's very scary.
Q. You just mentioned Dave, but their other big weapon is Samuels and I don't know whether to call him a tight end, a fullback, a slot back, but can you talk about tracking him and how important it is to know where he is?
COACH FEDORA: Yeah, you have to know where No. 1 is all the time, because they do so many things with him.  He's kind of their utility guy.  He's just all over the place and he's going to be involved in the game plan.  They are going to get the ball in his hands or throw it to him.  He's a special player, he really is.
Q. And on your side, how important is it, Elijah Hood has been so strong most of the season, to get your own running game going to balance out the passing game?
COACH FEDORA: We know that we have to run the ball successful, or efficiently, to be successful.  We know that.  That's going to be critical.  It always has been in this game.  The team that runs the ball successfully has usually had success, so we know we've got to do that.  They are going to do everything they can to stop the run.
They have got to -- I think their D-line is really, really good.  I think it's a strength of their team and I think they do a nice job with their scheme.
Q. How much do you talk to your team this week about what's at stake for you guys with the coastal berth and title game; hey, we need some help, but it's still in our grasp and we need to get a win, or do you just make it all about the rivalry?
COACH FEDORA: Really, it's all about this game.  Really nothing else matters.  We either take care of our business or don't.  We'll see what happens after that.  Really what we control is this week and this game and so all of our preparation is really about us and the team that we play.
Q. Do you mention that to your team at all, what's at stake, or not at all?
COACH FEDORA: No, I haven't mentioned it.  They know what's at stake.
Q. Talk about NC State's running defense.  They look like a pretty good running defense.  Is that going to be a problem?
COACH FEDORA: It's definitely going to be a challenge.  They are really good up front.  Their linebackers fit well.  They pride themselves on stopping the run.  I think they are maybe giving up just a little over a hundred yards a game rushing and so we have got our work cut out for us.  We have got to be able to run the ball effectively.
Q. Does this help recruiting for next year?
COACH FEDORA: Yeah, it always does.  Any time you're playing your rival, you want to win the football game, because there's so many different factors involved, from your fans to recruits to everybody involved.
Q. I realize you got your first interception last week, but even before that, can you talk about the job that, especially Stewart and Lawrence are doing at cornerback, that's been very effective, even without the interceptions.
COACH FEDORA: Yeah, they have done a great job this year.  They challenge the receivers.  They are all over balls even when they have not gotten interceptions.  They have got their hands on balls.  They have had PBUs.  They are in the right place.  I think they have played really, really well all year.
Q. Is there something besides speed that's made Logan so effective on the kickoff returns?
COACH FEDORA: He has got really good vision, and he doesn't just necessarily go down easy.  None of these was he untouched.  He's broken some tackles and he just -- but the speed is a big factor in it, because he's going full speed one way and the other team is going full speed the other way.  Once you make a guy miss or once you get a guy -- break a tackle, you've got a chance to take it, and he can go the distance.
Q. In some strange way, is his kickoff return overshadowed because of Ryan Switzer's punt returns earlier in his career, and T.J. seems to be pretty consistent doing kickoff returns.
COACH FEDORA: Yeah, he definitely is.  I think he's, what, No. 2 in the country right now in kickoff returns.  So yeah, he's pretty special in his own way.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT