ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 17, 2018
Larry Fedora
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LARRY FEDORA: Looking forward to getting up there and playing a really good opponent and finding out where we are as a team.  It been a long time since Carolina has gone to Syracuse so it should be a great match-up.
Q. To look at Eric Dungey on film, what can you say about the type of weapon that Syracuse has and his ability to use his legs, as well as his arm?
LARRY FEDORA: Yeah, he's an extremely gutsy player.  You can tell he's got a lot of grit.  I'm sure his players are inspired; the players that are on that team are inspired by how hard he plays and how hard he runs.  He's very impressive.  I mean, he can throw the football and he will try to run over you when he has the opportunity.
Q. And then as far as Michael Carter, I know last season you were looking for a guy that kind of show themselves out of that backfield, and Michael Carter has gotten progressively better.  Syracuse struggles in run defense.  What can you say about your thoughts on your rushing attack as you move forward?
LARRY FEDORA: I think we are progressing week-by-week.  I think we are getting a little bit better each week in the running game.  I think our offensive line is starting to come together.  We're actually having some continuity there at that position now, and so I think it's week, those guys improve.  I think our guys take great pride on the perimeter of being physical and blocking and I think our tight ends are doing a great job.
I do think that Michael is a very talented young man that can do a lot of things with the ball in his hands.
Q. They are such a young defense.  Is there a big defense between what you saw on video from early in the season and then the team that you actually played on the field?
LARRY FEDORA: It was about what we thought it was going to be.  I mean, you know, Bud's always going to do some things scheme-wise that creates problems for you and so it's kind of a chess game with them trying to match up and make sure that we can try to take advantages of the things that he's giving us.
Personnel wise, they are young in some areas but I think they are playing hard, and, you know, they made some plays.
Q. Obviously you were on the verge of a win last week and it didn't happen there.  What do you point to, the film review with your players that say, hey, we were close there; if we just did this thing better or that thing better, we would have had a different outcome last week?
LARRY FEDORA: Well, we can point out all the missed opportunities in the game.  I mean, one thing we try to do is make sure our guys understand the good things that they are doing and then the bad things they are doing.  I think it was very obvious for them, it was not like I had to search very hard to show them where we had many opportunities where that game shouldn't have even been a close game to be honest with you.  It shouldn't even have been a game in the fourth quarter.
But because of the missed opportunities that we had, we put ourselves in that situation and then didn't make enough plays at the end to win the game.  But our guys know they are very close.  They continue to play hard.  They are physical and we just have to make a play when it presents itself.
Q. Are you set on quarterback for this week at this point?
LARRY FEDORA: We will be by probably end of practice tomorrow, yes.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT