ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 26, 2018
Larry Fedora
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LARRY FEDORA: It's been a fast and furious short week, and we're getting ready to get on a plane here in a few minutes and head to Miami.
Q. I'm writing a story about the nomadic lifestyle of assistant coaches and was wondering if you could kind of fill me in on just how difficult a lifestyle it is for assistants.
LARRY FEDORA: Well, I mean, it's part of the profession, for one.  I would say the vast majority of assistants, their goals are to be head coaches.  They know that it just goes with the territory, that you're going to constantly be trying to move up in the profession, and that may mean moving your family across the country to move from one position to another to make as many contacts as possible, and to eventually move up into a coordinator's role and then hopefully to reach your goal as a head coach.
It is difficult.  It's probably most difficult on the families because as a coach you go into a situation and there's nine other guys in that room that are all pulling in the same direction, and you get in there and you go to work and you close the doors and you really don't come up for air.  Whenever the house sells, your wife and family comes in, and then they've got to find schools, they've got to find doctors, they've got to find where the grocery stores are, everything.  So it's probably more difficult on the families than it is on the coaches themselves.
Q. What were you most pleased with with your offense in terms of the improvement you saw from the first two weeks to last week against Pittsburgh?
LARRY FEDORA: Yeah, I would say the offensive line continues to grow closer together, so they're doing a better job, and we just became more consistent offensively.  Less mistakes and quit shooting ourselves in the foot as much and played a cleaner game.
Q. As you look at film of Miami quarterback, you look at Perry, what concerns does he pose for you should he be the one that you end up facing tomorrow?
LARRY FEDORA: Well, I think both of them have similar styles.  I mean, both kids can beat you with their legs.  They both can run, and they both can throw the football.  Now, I don't know about the way they make decisions.  I don't know about their personalities or any of those things, but I know that both of them are quality quarterbacks in this league and both can beat you.
Q. Can you just talk about the challenge of playing on a short week?
LARRY FEDORA: Yeah, it is, it's extremely challenging, especially if you're on the road, you know, and you've got to -- you get in from your game on Saturday, you really don't get the benefit of enjoying what happens in the game or really evaluating what happens in the game.  The game is over, we come right in, and we start (audio interruption).
You only have a couple days to get it in, and your kids have to recover at the same time, both physically and mentally, because a game takes a lot out of them, especially if you play a full 60-minute game that's a physical game.  It takes a lot out of their bodies and their minds.  You've got to find a way to give them some recovery but also get a game plan in.  So it is, it's very difficult.
Q. I guess with potentially seven plays seeing the field for the first time, I'm kind of curious the balance you and your staff have struck between maybe installing some new wrinkles that maybe the opponent hasn't seen, and at the same time knowing these guys might not have their legs fully under them from simply not playing.
LARRY FEDORA: Yeah, it's hard to put in new things when you only have a couple days, on a short week.  We'll have the open week coming up after this game, so we'll be able to do some new things.  But all the seven guys, whether they get in the game or not, they are up and ready, and we're happy to have them.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT