UBS HONG KONG OPEN
October 22, 2015
Kevin Phelan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Thought on the day?
KEVIN PHELAN: Pretty happy with it.  Played nicely all day.  Any time I was in trouble, I kind of got out of it pretty quickly.  So yeah, it was good, holed a few putts.  It's nice.
Q. Coped with the heat nicely?
KEVIN PHELAN: Yeah, first time playing in weather like this in a while.  Took a bit of getting used to yesterday.  But yeah, it was okay.  Guzzling water.
Q. When you had a little bit of sunshine in Portugal, it wasn't quite like this, was it?
KEVIN PHELAN: No, it was pretty brief, as well.  Yeah, it was -- it's nice to play in these conditions as long as you can stay hydrated.
Q. Tell us your state of mind.  I know Portugal was a last-minute entry and you're chasing your card for next year.  Is it top six you have to finish, something like that?
KEVIN PHELAN: I haven't looked at it but yeah after the Dunhill, I kind of had written the year off.  I thought I was just going to go to Tour School.  Didn't think I would get in here or Portugal.  Went to Portugal Wednesday night, played.  I think I was 50-something reserved when the entries came out and got in pretty comfortably in the end.
Yeah, just delighted to have another chance.
Q. Does that, therefore, mean that everything is a bonus and you're staying fairly relaxed about the situation?
KEVIN PHELAN: Yeah, definitely looked at it as a bonus, especially getting to these tournaments so late.  Arrived here Tuesday night and Portugal Wednesday night, so can't do the usual preparations.  So yeah, just looked at it as a bonus and try and do the best I can.
Q. It does beg the question, how is the jet-lag?
KEVIN PHELAN: Not too bad.  I've been lucky enough, any time I've come here, I've kind of gotten a good night's sleep the first night, which is probably the most important.  Then I've just been kind of 8.00, 3.00.  I've been sleeping.  That's fine for today.  I had an early tee time.  Yeah, it was okay.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT