GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 30, 2019
Jacob Evans III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What did you learn last year being part of this team that will help you going into camp and hopefully securing more playing time, a more prominent role?
JACOB EVANS III: Well, last year just watching the older guys on the team, like Andre, Shaun, Steph, Klay, Draymond, just how they go about their business every day, how serious they are every day about it, you know, just making sure I'm getting my work in and working hard every day.
Q. Obviously a lot of talk about the changes on this team and some of the guys who have left. You've made some additions, as well. I'm curious, who are you excited to play with among the new players?
JACOB EVANS III: Really everybody, to be honest. Omari, just being around him in the past few months, he brings a lot of energy every day. Jordan, he brings a lot of energy, also. Really just all the new faces around. It's going to be a lot of excitement.
Q. You made the switch to play more point guard; how do you think the off-season has worked out as you've made that transition and you think most of your minutes will come as a point guard?
JACOB EVANS III: In this off-season, it's been great, just working on my game, building confidence in my game, which I think was probably one of the biggest things. You know, and then after that just going, just learning as it goes. I'm excited just to step into this new season. There's a lot of new faces, new arenas, so I'm just kind of ready to get things going.
Q. We've talked about the game getting more and more international, and I think there's going to be a record number of NBA primetime games in Europe this year. You guys have the first NBA Sunday game. Your thoughts on having that bigger worldwide audience and just how much the game has grown all across the world?
JACOB EVANS III: Well, like you said, the game has grown so much, and I think that's just a testament to it. Also like the players in the league, there's more players from overseas in the league at this point than there's ever been. But I think it's great. I think basketball should be a universal sport. I think eventually everyone is going to be playing and enjoying it. Maybe we'll see another league as big as the NBA, but that's just -- you've got to wait and see. But I think it's just great for the culture in general.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT