AUSTRALIAN OPEN
February 8, 2021
Alex Bolt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  A. BOLT/N. Gombos
 6-2, 6-2, 4-6, 6-3
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. Talk us through a great effort getting into the next round of the Australian Open.
 ALEX BOLT:   Yeah, I'm super pleased getting through my first round.  It's always tricky, first match of a best-of-five set match, it's always tricky trying to stay focused for a long period of time.
 Yeah, I'm just happy with the way I'm playing at the moment.
 Q. What do you take out of coming to your home slam and succeed at it early on?
 ALEX BOLT:   Yeah, I don't know what it is about it.  I love playing at home.  Especially when you can get a crowd out that gets right behind you, it just gives you that added boost out on court that makes you want to try that little bit harder.
 Q. What was the crowd like today?
 ALEX BOLT:   It was pretty good.  I think Johnny Millman got all the crowd at the start of the match.  There weren't too many people out on my court.  Once he finished, a few more started to come in, the fans.  There was a big bunch of people there towards the end of the match.
 Q. Talk us through your mindset after losing the third set.
 ALEX BOLT:   Yeah, I was a little bit annoyed with myself because I felt like I was in control of the match up until I got broken.  I think the game before I had three or four breakpoint chances in his service game.  I was a bit annoyed that I didn't convert on any of them.  That sort of laid over into my next service game where I got broken.
 Yeah, I was a little bit annoyed about the way that set ended, but took a toilet break, recomposed myself, came out and, yeah, played a pretty good fourth set.
 Q. You're in fantastic form.  Melbourne Summer Series, nearly beat Stan Wawrinka.  Facing Grigor Dimitrov or Marin Cilic in the next round, how much confidence do you go into that next match with?
 ALEX BOLT:   A lot.  I guess the confidence is not just from pushing Stan to a long three-set match.  I have a lot of belief in my game that I can take it to a lot of these guys now that I've played a few of them over the past few years.  I know I can stick it with them.
 Whoever it's going to be in round two, whether it's Cilic or Dimitrov, it's going to be a tough battle.  I just can't wait to get out there and play.
 Q. You've had great results in Australia.  Obvious reasons for that.  What does it take to transfer those on a regular basis when you're out on the full tour?
 ALEX BOLT:   Yeah, that's obviously something that I've struggled with throughout the years.  I always seem to play well in my home country.
 Yeah, being in Australia, you got to travel a lot of the year.  It's only like a month or so a year that I can play at home.  I think the big thing is just day in, day out bringing the same energy every day.  It's easy to do that here in Australia when I got my family and friends that are around me.  Everything just feels so easy being at home.
 Being away, it's just that little bit harder.  That's something, yeah, that I've kind of struggled with over the years.
 Q. Is it more the mental side or the physical side or a whole combination?
 ALEX BOLT:   I think it's a combination.  But probably more mental.  Being away from home, traveling and stuff, I mean, it is part of the job, but it does get to you at some stages.  I just haven't quite found I guess the right ways to deal with that properly yet.
 Q. A lot of the players are saying the courts are a little bit faster this year.  Are you feeling more comfortable in these conditions?
 ALEX BOLT:   Yeah, they're definitely playing a lot faster.  I don't know if it's the balls or the courts.  Courts felt quite slick out there today even though it was pretty overcast.
 Yeah, I like the courts the last few years.  I've had some good results.  I do like it a little bit faster, as well.  Gives me a few more free points on my serve and makes it a little bit easier for me when I'm serving.
 Q. Irrespective of who it is in the next round, do you think in one sense there's a bit of an advantage for you at home, and they may not know as much about you as you would know about them?
 ALEX BOLT:   Yeah, for sure.  Also I feel like I'll be coming in as the underdog, as well.  They'd be expected to win.
 But, yeah, obviously I haven't been on the ATP Tour for that long, so they wouldn't know that much about me.  Obviously they're well-established, great players themselves.  Yeah, I mean, I'm just looking forward to the match, to be honest.
 Q. In the post match interview you said the basketball team is all over you supporting.  Do you need a fill-in this week if you keep winning matches?
 ALEX BOLT:   If I keep on winning, they're not going to be able to rock up to the games.  Is that you putting your hand up for a spot?  You're in.  It would be a decent pickup, I reckon.
 Q. How does it feel to have the support, have them over here, watching you do your thing?
 ALEX BOLT:   Yeah, definitely.  Not just my mates there, but I got my mum and dad flew in yesterday to come watch me play from Murray Bridge.  I don't get to play in front of them very often.  To play in front of them here at a slam, it's really nice.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT