MURRAY RIVER OPEN
February 1, 2021
Alex Bolt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  A. BOLT/T. Kokkinakis
 2-6, 6-4, 6-3
 THE MODERATOR:   Congratulations, first match in six months.  How does it feel to be back in Australia and get a tough three-set win against a fellow Aussie?
 ALEX BOLT:   Yeah, it's really nice to be competing again.  Like you said, it's been six months.  Yeah, just enjoying being out on the court and back playing in Australia.
 Q. That is obviously very difficult for both of you.  You're friends, same state, all that sort of stuff.  How were you able to get back on top of that match after losing the first set?
 ALEX BOLT:   Yeah, it's always tough.  Me and Thanasi have played a few times now on tour.  We basically trained all preseason together.  So it's not the best when you have to play someone you know really well.
 Yeah, I probably started off a little bit erratic, not as good as I'd like to.  I guess that's all part of it, not having played for so long.
 Yeah, I found like once I sort of found my range I felt like I got on top of the match.
 Q. What did you say to him at the net afterwards?
 ALEX BOLT:   Just bad luck, really.  And just realize this is the start.  Don't worry about it.  Yeah.
 Q. What were your first thoughts when you saw the draw?
 ALEX BOLT:   I was like, Of course.  First thing I did was message Thanasi and was like, How's the draw?  No one really likes playing their mate.  I would have much preferred to play someone else, but that's the way it goes sometimes.
 Q. McDonald next.  What are your thoughts on that matchup?
 ALEX BOLT:   Yeah, quality player.  Yeah, played him a couple of times a few years ago.  Yeah, he's a solid player off both sides.  He's not going to give me much.  I'm just looking forward to the opportunity to play.
 Q. Pretty good day for the Aussie boys today, wasn't it?
 ALEX BOLT:   Yeah, well, actually I haven't seen any other results, but I saw Jason won this morning, which is good.  Yeah, I guess...
 Q. O'Connell.
 ALEX BOLT:   There you go, right.  Yeah, we've had some very good wins.  It's good, the boys are playing well heading into the Aussie Open.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT