MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 19, 2014
Jaye Marie Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Claustrophobic in here?
JAYE MARIE GREEN:   Just a little. 

Q.   Your dad said he felt this yesterday coming, that he told you before the round you were going to shoot 61; 63 is not bad. 
JAYE MARIE GREEN:   Yeah.   He told me, Jaye, you're getting really close to being back to Jaye Marie Green.   Just keep plugging along and a low one is going to come for you.
I was like, All right.   Sounds good.   I didn't really believe him, but now I do.

Q.   You were a birdie machine today.   How did you get that done?   What was working?
JAYE MARIE GREEN:   Pretty much everything.   I hit all of my tee balls pretty much in the fairway.   I knocked them close.   I made 'em.
Yeah, I don't think I missed any greens today actually.   I only missed one, I believe.   So that helped a lot.

Q.   Talk about the momentum you picked up early.   You really got it going. 
JAYE MARIE GREEN:   Yeah.

Q.   How did that help you?
JAYE MARIE GREEN:   Yeah, I wasn't feeling great this morning.   Felt like just down.   So when I birdied the first hole I was like, Okay, let's go.
When I finished the turn at 4‑under I was like, All right, my goal is to get to 10.   To finish at 10 was huge for me.

Q.   First year on the LPGA Tour, what's been the biggest adjustment?
JAYE MARIE GREEN:   It's hard to name just one, honestly.   The traveling; different hotels and houses every week; trying to stay who you are; not really knowing anyone at the beginning; making friends; sponsors.   It goes on and on. 
I think the main thing is to stay true to who are and not really change.   I've changed a lot since being out here.
So the last two weeks been really working on getting back to being old Jaye and just being who I am.

Q.   Who is old Jaye?
JAYE MARIE GREEN:   Like I dyed my hair last night.   I do the craziest, weirdest stuff.

Q.   What color is your hair?
JAYE MARIE GREEN:   Like a dark red, brown?   I don't know.   It was red two days ago.   A deep burgundy. 

Q.   You set a Q‑School record.   Did that give you some confidence to start your pro career?
JAYE MARIE GREEN:   Oh, definitely.   I think it was a blessing and a curse at the same time kind of.   It's huge because it got me out here, but then at the same time, I put so much pressure on myself.   Shooting that many under par every day, you know, to feel like, well, I should be doing that all the time.
And then not doing that all the time, I was just kind of bumming.   But it's slowly but surely coming back together.

Q.   You feel like the rookie breakthrough is coming soon?
JAYE MARIE GREEN:   Yeah, it's just making new friends and having them be supportive and my mom and dad and brother, you know, just always getting encouragement from your family has been huge.

Q.   Michelle said that Stacy gave you a three‑hour chipping putting lesson about a month ago.   Did that help? 
JAYE MARIE GREEN:   Yeah, she gave me ‑‑ in Canada she stood with me for, yeah, about two and a half, three hours just chipping.   Helped a lot just in the sense of like, yeah, it helped my chipping, but really helped me know, wow, there are a lot of girls out here on tour that can genuinely care about‑‑ because it's such an individual sport. 
To see someone care about someone other than themselves while they're ranked No. 1 in the world was just the coolest thing.   Taught me a lot, too.

Q.   You think you can continue today's play ingot tomorrow's final round?
JAYE MARIE GREEN:   I hope so.   Ever since the first round I kind of pulled stuff together.   Long story short, yes.   I feel like I'm going to try my best to do it. 
Being in Q‑School helped a lot for me to understand how to back up a low round.   So we'll see.   I don't know.   Golf is golf.   You never know, so...

Q.   What were some of the things you said you were maybe diverting from when you said not doing the old Jaye thing.   I know you said mimicking other people's swings.   What were some of the things? 
JAYE MARIE GREEN:   Yeah, I could go through pretty much everyone.   I was trying to mimic Michelle Wie's swing because I thought it was awesome.   I love her ball flight. 
Trying to mimic Stacy Lewis' putting.
Natalie Gulbis' style.   You know, wearing clothes I wouldn't wear, doing stuff‑‑ I didn't even know how to be someone that wasn't me.   It was so stressful.   I learned you can improve by being who you are.
Like if I like Michelle's ball flight, I'm going to find a way to do it on my own.

Q.   Love it.   The Symetra emblem on your chest, seeing Mo win last week, what did that do for you guys that have honed your skills there and maybe the girls still on tour?
JAYE MARIE GREEN:   Yeah, the Symetra Tour really is a steppingstone.   It was good and bad for me because I was only out there one year.   So this is my second rookie year in a row, where it's like I can't just get settled.
Just being out there traveling, it gave you a little taste of what it's like out here.   I think it's huge for players to come up that way.

Q.   I know dad is back on the bag.   How many weeks was he off and how many other caddies did you have?
JAYE MARIE GREEN:   My dad has always caddied for me, and he wasn't for about six weeks.   I had Meaghan Francella on the bag and she was doing a great job.   It was hard because I'm like, Dang, she's doing everything right.   I just felt something in my heart just telling me, You need to go back to your dad because everything is just so new right now. 
I just wasn't in the best spot in life.   I was just kind of down on myself a lot.   I was like, I just kind of need my dad to travel with me.   I can't do it all on my own.   I'm only 20.

Q.   I need help.   And you say you just look at him and laugh.   You think that's the biggest plus?
JAYE MARIE GREEN:   Oh, that's the hugest thing.   Like on the last fairway he was doing the funniest walk and face.   I go, You're so funny.   Dad, I'm trying to focus here.   I think I just got in the lead.
I'm just cracking up.   He's the best.

Q.   You started this week in the dreaded 101 spot on the Money List.   How important is a big finish here going to be for you?
JAYE MARIE GREEN:   I actually had no idea what I was ranked until you just told me.

Q.   Difference between 101 and 100 is going to Q‑School and not going to Q‑School.
JAYE MARIE GREEN:   Someone asked me the other day, and I'm like, I don't really know what I'm ranked and I don't really care.   Just because how I play out here, I still can't ‑‑ yeah, I could play well and change that, but I can't control everyone else.
What if five other people that are ranked that do just as well.   I don't want add any more pressure to myself.
I just go out and do the best I can.   At the end of the year when my mom says, Good job.   You're going to CME Titleholders and you're good, or, Hey, Jaye, you're going back to Q School.   Either way I'm like, All right.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT