NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 17, 2017
Paul Millsap
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I'm from NBA Africa.  What can we expect from you on Sunday?
PAUL MILLSAP: I don't know.  I think this year I may be a little bit more aggressive.  The past few years, I spectated and watched all the other players, the great players around me.  This year I'll get a little more involved and be more aggressive.
Q. How do you feel about it being in New Orleans this year?
PAUL MILLSAP: It's great.  It's my home state.  It was here four years ago when I first was invited to the All-Star game.  So it's always good to come back down here.
Q. When you talk about Giannis Antetokounmpo, what's it like to play against him?
PAUL MILLSAP: When you're up against a [6-11] point guard, that's a tough guard.  It's tough for anybody.  With players like that, the game is in good hands.  The game is changing with guys like that.  So it's fun to watch and fun to play.
Q. How do you stop him?
PAUL MILLSAP: Right now I think we try to keep him out of the lane.  If we can keep him out of the lane.
Q. Some guys are glue guys, but they also have a really well rounded game, maybe better than a lot of the guys on the team.  Is it tougher to try to find your spot in a game when a lot of guys will kind of gun in an All-Star game and try to make a big play when in a normal situation that's not what you would probably do?
PAUL MILLSAP: Yeah.  I mean, at the end of the day, I play the game the right way regardless of All-Star game or not.  Some may call it boring.  I call it basketball.  I strive, and I've been successful trying to make the right plays and making the right reads.  I try not to get caught up into the All-Star game, but at the end of the day, it is fun.  I do have to get some of my street ball out of me because I do have some of that in me.  It's hard to break good habits.
Q. There's nothing wrong with that.
PAUL MILLSAP: Yeah.
Q. Who's got the best style in the league?  Besides you, of course.
PAUL MILLSAP: Style in what, game?
Q. Fashion style.
PAUL MILLSAP: A lot of guys out there.  I mean, [Russell] Westbrook in what he does, [James] Harden in what he does.  Everybody has got their own unique way of dressing and style.  It's good to see.
Q. When you look at the league as a whole and you look at guys like Marc Gasol shooting a bunch of threes.
I saw Dwight the other night, I was watching your game.  I don't know if it was you or someone else who kicked the ball out to him, and he was sinking a corner three.  Maybe not that example, but in general, some of these guys have started taking these threes and hitting them at above league average rates.  Do you feel guys are being taught differently, or they're seeing the emphasis on the three ball and saying, I've got to try to adjust.  What is it?
PAUL MILLSAP: I think the NBA game has become more three-ball oriented.  I think with the athletes that we have, that the floor has to be spaced.  So you have to have somebody spacing the floor.  I think that's where the game is going.  To have the luxury of having a big step out and take the three-point shot, I think that helps your offense tremendously.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT