NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 12, 2016
Paul Millsap
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Kawhi Leonard's development?
PAUL MILLSAP: You can kind of see it happening in front of your eyes, especially with a coach with Pop, I think that helps him out a lot.  He's definitely one of our stars in this league.
Q. If you were to give him some advice on how to enjoy his first All-Star experience, what would you tell him?
PAUL MILLSAP: All I can tell him is enjoy it, man.  Don't take it for granted.  This is a beautiful time.  This is a great opportunity.  A lot of people don't get to experience this, so I mean, the best you can do is just try to enjoy it.
Q. If you could pick five players from any era for your all-time All-Star, who would your five be?
PAUL MILLSAP: Five players?
Q. From any era for your All-Star team?
PAUL MILLSAP: Jordan, Magic, Kobe, Tim Duncan and Bill Russell.
Q. I love the Tim Duncan pick.  He's usually a fixture at the All-Star Game.  He's not here this weekend.  What do you think he's doing to enjoy his time off?
PAUL MILLSAP: Hopefully somewhere vacationing.  It's tough.  It's great to have these days to do nothing.  I mean, I know he's been doing this for a while, so for him to have an All-Star break to just relax and hang out with his family or get away, I think that's great.
Q. You and Tim Duncan play a game of Ping-Pong against each other, who wins?
PAUL MILLSAP: Probably him.  I'm a sporadic Ping-Pong player.  I play every now and then.
Q. You've gone up against Karl-Anthony Towns twice this season.  What have you seen from him this season so far?
PAUL MILLSAP: To me, I think the biggest thing is just his energy that he brings every night, the way he competes every night.  He's very skilled.  With that mixture and just competing, you can't help but have success.
Q. What's it mean to play in a game like this, especially Kobe's last?
PAUL MILLSAP: It's just amazing.  For me to be a part of Kobe's last All-Star Game, I think that's incredible within itself.
Q. (Indiscernible).
PAUL MILLSAP: The only thing I can remember is him always beating us when I was at Utah in the playoffs.  We always had to try to overcome the Lakers and Kobe Bryant and just could never do it.
Q. (Indiscernible)?
PAUL MILLSAP: I mean, I've heard my name in trades for ten years now.  I mean, it's something you get used to.  I don't get into the what-ifs or where I could be or whatever.  I'm at the All-Star right now, and I'm happy with where I'm at and if something was to happen, got to go.
Q. Are some locker rooms better at blocking that out than others?
PAUL MILLSAP: I think some may be better at doing it.  I mean, if it's your first time or you're a young guy and you hear your name come up, it's tough.  You never witness this or experience it.  But me being here for ten years, I mean, I've heard it all.
Q. But you've also got roots now wherever you go.  You're older and more established.  Does that make it harder if something were to come up?
PAUL MILLSAP: For me?  I've got roots, but I think it will make it easier, maybe.  I'm used to it.  I'm used to the travel, I'm used to whatever, but you never know what could happen.  So you've got to be prepared for whatever.
Q. What do you know about Toronto and what are you looking to experience here?
PAUL MILLSAP: I don't know a lot, but I'm very intrigued about it.  I want to experience a lot.  I want to see what the culture's about.  Any time you get to have an opportunity to get out of your country, you want to experience the different culture and experience life like other people experience it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT