KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 18, 2014
Sara Jane Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You came in here in three previous stops at this tournament with +18 in 10 competitive rounds; never finished better than 64th; never had a round in the 60s.   What happened this week?  
SARAH JANE SMITH:   I don't know.   I've always really liked this golf course.   Just never been able to put it all together.  
So I just feel comfortable here.   I think that helped.   Even though my results may not have shown it, I definitely love it here.  
   
 Q.   Nice par save there at the end.   
SARAH JANE SMITH:   Yeah, got the hands going a little bit at the end.   Yeah, it was nice to finish like that.   Would have sucked to finish with a bogey.  
   
 Q.   When you woke up this morning did you think you would end the day in contention?  
SARAH JANE SMITH:   No.   Not that I didn't feel like I could play well, I really didn't think even ‑‑ I'm really happy with 5‑under for the day, but I didn't think that would sneak in to wherever it is at the moment.   
So I'm happy with that.  
   
 Q.   This is your best LPGA finish so far.   How did you feel nerve‑wise?   Did you think about that throughout the day?   
SARAH JANE SMITH:   I felt pretty good.   I kind of felt a tad nervous on 16, then I felt pretty good considering, and then 18 I got a bit jittery.   (Laughing.)   
   
 Q.   What do you do especially well today?  
SARAH JANE SMITH:   I putted nicely today.   I had some nice putts early in the day from like 20 foot to get things going.   All over it was pretty good with my putting.  
   
 Q.   Been on the tour for a while, and I know you work hard to stay out here obviously.   Any extraordinary tales of things you've had to do or sacrifices you've had to make to make it work?  
SARAH JANE SMITH:   My goodness, we don't really have enough time.   My first few years I was going back and forth between tours, so we drove most of that.   My husband caddies for me.   He probably gave up the most.   He was player and gave it up to support me.   
He's probably the one that has that story.   I don't know, we have done some pretty ridiculous things as far as driving to make events and things like that.   It's all worth it.   It's all fun.  
   
 Q.   Where did your husband play?  
SARAH JANE SMITH:   He started off, he played the Australasian stuff like trying to qualify out there.   He just never sort of got going.   
He won the first stage of Australasian Q‑School, and I caddied him the second half and it didn't go very well.   
He played a few events over here but didn't have status on a major tour or anything.   Definitely had the ability to do it.   He's a good caddie.  
   
 Q.   Is he here with you this week?  
SARAH JANE SMITH:   Yeah, sorry.   Yeah, my caddie.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   You have an unusual quote on your website and on the LPGA site.   She lacks the indefinable something...   
SARAH JANE SMITH:   Quality of weakness.   Yeah, I think Oscar Wilde.   I just liked it.   I just think it's a really nice way to say that you're not a sucker, I guess.   (Laughing.)   
I just really like it.   I think maybe sometimes I'm not that, so it's nice to think it, I suppose.   
   
 Q.   Sometimes you're not ‑‑ I'm sorry, you're not a sucker?   
SARAH JANE SMITH:   No, no, not sort of as get up and go as ‑‑ you know, the opposite of that, whatever that is.   I can't think of the right word.  
   
 Q.   Is that what jumps out at you?   Do you think about?  
SARAH JANE SMITH:   To me it's a bit of an inspirational quote.   Not so much that I am that, but I would like to be like that.  
   
 Q.   What is your husband's name?  
SARAH JANE SMITH:   Duane.  
   
 Q.   How long have you been married?   
SARAH JANE SMITH:   Just over five years.   
   
 Q.   D‑u‑a‑n‑e?   
SARAH JANE SMITH:   Yep, that's right.  
   
 Q.   You said you like the course.   What do you make of the entire thing?   They treat you pretty good here?  
SARAH JANE SMITH:   Yeah, no, it's amazing.   It's always been one of my favorites.   I played it before we had a couple years off.   I had come from Futures.   That's a funny one actually.   We drove in here from a Futures event and drove all night and got in like 3:00 in the morning.  
So we slept in that Monday morning.   When we came out at about 2:00 or so, they had repaved the entire parking lot except for our car.   They never told us.   The guys sitting out there were like, Oh, really sorry.  
That was my first time here.   We got to go to the theme park.   They closed it down.   I just thought, This is the place to be.  
   
 Q.   What year was that?  
SARAH JANE SMITH:   Must have been '08 or '09.   Yeah, I think.   
   
 Q.   Your first trip you said?  
SARAH JANE SMITH:   My first year I played here, yeah.   
   
 Q.   '09, yeah.   So you moved the car and they finished the parking lot?  
SARAH JANE SMITH:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Which hotel was it?  
SARAH JANE SMITH:   I don't remember.   It was out on the way to Old Town.   I don't know.   We Pricelined it or something.  
   
 Q.   Where had you driven from?  
SARAH JANE SMITH:   I have no idea.   We might have even done like a U.S. Open qualifier or something like that.   Wherever we'd come from we were exhausted.  
   
 Q.   Do you remember how long the drive was?  
SARAH JANE SMITH:   No, I'm sorry.   Duane might, but he's...   
   
 Q.   You had a T6 a few years ago.   Obviously been up and down since then.   This is a huge confidence boost, but do you think you've learned something from past experience to sustain this from here on out?  
SARAH JANE SMITH:   Hopefully.   This year I've put myself in better positions and haven't had the best of weekends, but it has been more consistent so far.  
I've been working on my short game a lot and trying to get that up to scratch.   My ball‑striking has always been thereabouts.   Maybe not the best, but close enough to be competing.   
I just haven't been, so that's really helped I think.   In this past year I got one of those putting tutor things, and it was pretty evident that I wasn't putting very well because I couldn't get it through those little balls.  
So they're going through there now, so that's good.  
   
 Q.   On a day like this, Lizette is doing pretty well obviously; she's got a pretty good gap; do you scoreboard watch at all on a day like this or is it too much and you just concentrate on what you're doing?  
SARAH JANE SMITH:   No, I don't really have a rule where I'm not allowed to look at it, but we're playing pretty quick.   Brittany is obviously also playing, so we were just chatting away.   I kind of looked up at the wrong time.   I kind of didn't want to look then when I knew I was going all right.  
It's hardly ever when you're on there.   I looked up right when it was the first page and, Oh, I didn't really want to see that.   
   
 Q.   Right when you popped up on the first page?  
SARAH JANE SMITH:   Yeah, like the first page came up and I saw my name.   So I just happened to look up and connect straight to it.  
   
 Q.   Not what you want before a tee shot.   
SARAH JANE SMITH:   I saw it on the greens.   
   
 Q.   Okay, cool.   Great work.   Congratulations.   
SARAH JANE SMITH:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT