WEGMANS LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 8, 2013
Sara Jane Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   First off, congratulations.   Great round today.   Just take us through what was really working well out there for you.   
SARAH JANE SMITH:   Well, I sort of had a rough couple of weeks leading into it, so it hasn't been great.  
But my coach came this week and we worked on just keeping my rhythm better.   I get really quick, so I've just sort of got that under control the last couple of days and that's made all the difference, I think.  
   
 Q.   Everybody's been talking about the tough conditions out there today.   To be able to put together a round like you did, how impressed were you by being able to put together that type of day?  
SARAH JANE SMITH:   I've always liked this golf course, and obviously the rough is tough.   But one of my best things is my driver, so that's sort of a good thing for me.   I don't really mind it being rough, because I haven't been in it too much.  
   
 Q.   So kind of preparing now, 36 holes tomorrow, up there near the top of the leaderboard at a major, how do you prep yourself for what's going to be kind of a crazy day?  
SARAH JANE SMITH:   I'm not sure.   I haven't really been this high in a major.   I've played decent here a couple of times, but never at this point.   So yeah, I really ‑‑ I don't know.   Just take it easy this afternoon, and I think we have to do laundry.   And then get ready for tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   When you guys have to play 36 holes, is it more mentally tough or physically draining when you have to kind of push yourself through that?  
SARAH JANE SMITH:   I think more mentally by the end of the day.   I mean we all sort of work out and try and stay in shape.   So I think it'll just be a matter of staying sharp at the end of the day.  
   
 Q.   You really can't go into tomorrow and look as it as 36.   You gotta think the first 18 and see where you are and then you'll deal with the second 18.   Right?  
SARAH JANE SMITH:   Yeah.   Absolutely.   It's just one shot at a time.   It sounds cliche, and it kind of is, but it's just the way you have to play.  
   
 Q.   Talk about sleeping ‑‑ not that you're leading, but sleeping on a third round lead.   Is this going to feel like sleeping on a third round lead even though you have two more rounds to play?  
SARAH JANE SMITH:   I guess, kind of because tomorrow will still have a Sunday feel in the beginning, even though it's the third round.   So it still feels that way.   But I mean I haven't done it before, so I don't know what to expect, but it'll be all right, I think.  
   
 Q.   How big of a difference did one day make?   Yesterday you probably didn't have a great feel for how the course was going to play.   Today you kind of knew what the conditions were going to be like.   
SARAH JANE SMITH:   Yeah.   Absolutely.   I mean it makes a big difference.   When we played the course and the greens staff had it in amazing conditions, so our practice rounds on Tuesday and Wednesday, although it had been raining wasn't as wet as it had been.   So yesterday was nice to get a good feel for it and know that we weren't going to get a hell of a lot of run out there.  
   
 Q.   Any highlights from your round that really stuck out in your mind today?  
SARAH JANE SMITH:   I felt like I hit my driver good again and gave myself opportunities to have sort of easier birdies, not work so hard.   So that was nice.  
   
 Q.   You said earlier in the interview that you've been struggling kind of off and on this season.   When you started your round did you kind of feel it from the beginning that gees, I might have something special going here?  
SARAH JANE SMITH:   Yesterday I felt ‑‑ I was pretty nervous teeing off.   I haven't been doing well.   And the practice rounds are great.   My coach is here, and we had really good preparation, but you're still always a little bit nervous to see how it's going to go.   So once I got going, then I felt a bit more comfortable and then everything was a bit more relaxed.  
   
 Q.   Everybody said, too, the key is just keep is in the fairway and give yourself chances.   
SARAH JANE SMITH:   Yeah.   Absolutely.   I've heard a lot of people talk about the rough and you just gotta not hit it in it, basically.   It's easier said than done.   But just stay away from it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT