ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
June 29, 2019
Mitchell Starc
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Australia - 243/9 (50), New Zealand - 157 (43.4)
Q. Mitch, the game plan targetting the stumps, it's worked wonders the whole way through.  Is that it again today, and has that been the secret to 24 wickets, or however many you've taken so far?
MITCHELL STARC: Yeah, it's part of my game plan.  Again, it was a warm wicket today, so we were all fortunate that Finchie won the toss and we got to bat first.  I believe they bowled well at the start.  They kept it tight, and we had to rebuild through the middle there with a great partnership with Uzzy and Alex there.
I guess we keep learning from the opposition when we do bowl second, and I guess that fuller length and that straighter line for me, attacking those stumps, it is pretty much part of my game plan.
I think as a bowling unit today, we were fantastic to keep such a good side to under 160, I think it was.  So it was a great performance by everyone.
Q. Is the bowling group clicking at the right time, do you think, and have you sort of found the right combination now with yourself and Jas opening the bowling; it all sort of flows well from there?
MITCHELL STARC: I think it's worked very well for the last two games, obviously.  But I think the fantastic thing about our 15 guys is we've got guys that several guys that can open the bowling.  We have got several guys that make up good combinations.  We've had all 15 part take part so far in the tournament.  Guys are ready to go if called upon.
The guys that were picked today did another fantastic job, and I don't think we've quite got the -- played the perfect game, if you like, especially as a bowling group, I guess I could say.
But yeah, we're finding ways to scrap and to restrict teams, and we keep improving every game.  I think the turning point was probably that Indian game where we had a good chat as a bowling group and a batting group and we've just continued to improve as a whole group of players from that game, so it's been fantastic.
Q. 172 dot balls you bowled today.  How much do you put down to the pitch and how much towards the good bowling from you guys?
MITCHELL STARC: Probably 50/50.  As I said, it was a warm wicket, so we probably had the rub of the conditions bowling second on that.  They bowled quite well, as well.  To have us 5 for not a lot, they are a very good side, batting and bowling.
When you're able to -- probably knew where to take wickets at the start and throughout; they are a powerful batting squad and again, Pat Cummins was fantastic today.  His economy rate was pretty low.
I guess there's been a lot spoken I think about him not taking many wickets the last few games, but his economy rate has been fantastic.  And that's part of our bowling setup is to at times, we've had to restrict guys and bring us back into the game like that.  I think Jas's spell today, his second spell was fantastic again.  Bowled a long spell there and didn't go for many runs.
Yeah, I guess it was part of the plan was to try and restrict them early, obviously try and take wickets throughout and it really paid off today.
Q. Can you talk us through the confidence in the bowling group right now to almost get on top of any situation, no matter what your target, no matter where they are, you seem to be finding a way to win games.  How strong is the confidence that you can just get through it as a group?
MITCHELL STARC: Yeah, we're finding ways to win.  I think a big part of that is our calmness and I think that's probably led by Finchie.  He's been fantastic as a captain.  Obviously changing up who is bowling when and where and throughout the innings, and I think everyone's been very calm and we've planned really well.
We've executed really well, especially the last few games.  And as I said before, we're improving every game, not only with the ball but with the bat, as well.
I guess we didn't start probably the way we wanted today, but to scrap to a good score there, we thought on a warm wicket, and have that partnership of Alex and Uzz was fantastic from them and gave us a really strong target to defend; that we were pretty confident that we could.
Q. What did you make of New Zealand's tactics in the chase because they seemed to shut up shop fairly early does.  That make it easier for you guys to put the foot on the throat?
MITCHELL STARC: I think we've seen them take games pretty deep, in the last few that I've seen, anyway.  And they have got the result in those; whether that was the plan from them today or not, I'm not sure.
Again, I thought we bowled quite well, and as I mentioned before, Pat's spell there and Jas, to really restrict the runs, was fantastic for us and to put the pressure on that way, and if you do get one or two wickets, which we were fortunate to do, that puts a lot more very sure on the new guys coming in.
Yeah, I'm not sure what their plan was throughout the innings, but I think we bowled very well as a bowling unit today.
Q. Your team success is obviously number 1 priority, but I think you're only three way from going past Glenn McGrath's all-time record for most wickets in World Cup.  What would that mean to you if you were to do that?
MITCHELL STARC: Not much if we don't win the World Cup.  I'm just stoked to be playing a part in this group and continue to contribute.
Yeah, I think I'm really proud of the whole bowling group, the way we've executed the last few games.  As I mentioned before, we keep improving as a group.  We're planning really well but it's that execution.  We've been fantastic as a whole bowling group.  It's not just the guys who played today, whether it be around training or Coults and Richo have come in and out, Schwarber (ph), as well.  We're talking -- not just talking, but we're showing what we're capable of on the field.  I'm just really excited to be part of this bowling group.
Q. David Warner is becoming a dad again tomorrow.  Are the players excited for him?
MITCHELL STARC: Yeah, he packed his bag pretty quick.  I think he's out there enjoying the win, and tomorrow he'll be a dad for the third time.  Good luck to the Warners and I think when we see him in Manchester, he'll have his hands full again.
Q. Does he have a couple days off?
MITCHELL STARC: We all have a couple days off, I believe.  I'll find out when I get back (chuckles).  We do travel tomorrow and we've got a couple of days off away from cricket, so that's going to be fantastic for everyone to freshen up.
Q. How do you feel about Australia's chances of winning the World Cup now compared to before the tournament?
MITCHELL STARC: It's a good question.  I wasn't part of the group for the last few tours before we got together for the World Cup.  From all reports, it's been a fantastic feel around the group in the UAE and India and to play some fantastic cricket heading into that April break, was probably the momentum that the group was after heading into this tournament.
So I think our chances are as good as any other team.  We've always spoken about peaking towards the back end of the tournament, and we're still searching for that perfect performance.  We're not quite there yet.  We're showing glimpses of what we are capable of with the ball and with the bat and in the field, but we have still got room to improve, and that's exciting for this group.  And if we can do that -- obviously we have to make the final first, but if we can play our best game -- well, we've got to play our best game in the semi now and hopefully better that in the final, and that's what tournament play is all about.
Q. With Jason sort of bowling generally in the first 20 overs, does that relieve you of a bit of pressure, having to strike up front, and you can come back a bit later and pick up a few wickets?
MITCHELL STARC: I'm not sure that I felt that pressure to strike early.  It's part of our game plan, but as I said before, we've got guys who can -- whether it's Jas and I, or Pat and I, or Pat and Jas, or Coults and Richo if they come in next game, as well.  We have got guys who are ready to go at different stages of the bowling innings.
And the way Jas has been the last two games, especially, he's been fantastic.  He's really taking his opportunity with both hands and been a really important part of these last two victories.
So yeah, he's continuing to improve, and I thought his spell, his second spell today, was fantastic to really restrict the runs and put a lot more pressure on New Zealand.  It does help the whole bowling group when we are all executing the way we want, especially the way Jas was the last two games.
Q. What's the talk out there when things aren't going your way?  It just seems like the group's always finding a way to win.  Just if you could give us some insight into the belief and the chat between the guys.
MITCHELL STARC: Yeah, I think as a said before, it's more the calmness.  I think we didn't quite execute what we wanted to in that Indian game and we spoke a lot about the execution and wanting to improve, and we have every game since.  I think there's a real sense of calmness around the whole group, not just from the bowlers but from Finchie to all the fielders.  Even when things are not quite happening for us, it's still very calm.  We still know what we want to do.  It goes back to the execution.
I think it's just that calmness and clearness as a whole group out on the field is what's probably instilling that confidence in the bowler to execute what they want to do.  Yeah, I think that's probably the biggest part for our cricket the last few weeks.
Q. I think there's a wee bit to play yet, but I think you guys are potential on track to meet the Black Caps in the semi.  If it does play out that way, will today give you a bit of a mental advantage?
MITCHELL STARC: No, I don't think so.  The two semis are different conditions completely.  It's Edgbaston and Manchester, very different conditions.  Could be different team makeups.
We're just, as I said before, we're still searching for that perfect performance, and if we keep continuing to improve every game, whether we play New Zealand or India or anyone, we're going to have to plan really well and then execute on the day.
Great result today, but one win today is not going to win you the World Cup.
Q. Just after the Indian game, what did you take away?  Where did they score their runs off?  What do you need to do differently if you do face India again?
MITCHELL STARC: I think since that game, we've taken wickets through the middle fairly regularly, and whether it's attacking more -- or I think the biggest part was the execution.  We were all probably a little bit off in that Indian game and they had wickets in the shed and exploded at the end.
We've continued to improve since that game through our execution and being really calm.  If we can do that again next week against South Africa and take that momentum into the semifinals, it's going to be great for the whole group.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT