NHL ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 5, 2000
Darryl Sittler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 DARRYL SITTLER: When you have the 50th celebration of the All-Star, and you are in the
millennium year, you are in the City of Toronto where hockey means so much to so many
people and to be in the new building in the Air Canada Centre, have guys like Mats Sundin
and Curtis Joseph part of it, playing against each other and to bring back the guys from
1947, who played in the first All-Star Game, it is special. It will never happen again. It
is nice that the fans and the media and everybody can be a part of it and enjoy it. 
 
Q. Seems so many people put a lot of importance on the fact that the game was being
played here. Do you think people like Mr. Bettman have to take stock in how much
enthusiasm is associated with this game here?
 
 DARRYL SITTLER: Toronto has always been as special in Canada as Montreal because of the
rivalry and the history that each franchise has, so it was the only place for the 50th
celebration to be here in Toronto with the new building and the City the way it is, the
exposure it gets here. I think the NHL made a wise choice. 
 
Q. So many of the guys I have spoken to today and yesterday are just commenting on how
well the week was structured and really allowed not only former players but fans to really
get involved and with the week; not just one day.....
 
 DARRYL SITTLER: The whole All-Star format back when I played All-Star games, you came
in the night before, you did kind of a black-tie dinner, you played the game, you were out
of the city. Now it is a whole week of celebration. You have Fantasy. You have other
events going on around it. You have the girls' game, the women's hockey last night,
obviously the heroes and the skills competition. Big corporate market, all the
preparations are involved, the sponsorship here, they are here with their major clients
putting on the show for them. Guys like us benefit from it, the old-timers. We are proud
to be part of it, but it also creates revenue for us as far as doing a few appearances and
a few endorsements. It is nice to be recognized. It is nice that the League involves us in
the way they do. You see a guy like Lindsay taking a faceoff, 70 years old; still playing,
Gordie Howe here, Bobby Hull is around, Bobby Orr is around here this weekend. Guys like
Lemieux and Gretzky are retired just recently, but they are part of our alumni. That is
important to keep them out in front and center and the fans like to see that. 
 
Q. Lastly when you were playing out there, I guess it has been awhile since that group
of customers all got on the ice together and did a few laps....
 
 DARRYL SITTLER: It probably won't happen again. We practiced at Maple Leaf Gardens, we
were in the old dressing room. A lot of good memories in those dressing rooms. We probably
won't all be together at Maple Leafs Gardens' ice again; let alone in Air Canada ice
playing. We are all around the 50 age and these events don't happen very often. We are
certainly proud to be a part of it and we are going to savor and enjoy every minute of it. 
 
Q. Did you have time to squeeze in a beer and just chat about old times?
 
 DARRYL SITTLER: Well, there has been a few times. Last night we did a little deal with
Master Card, Lanny and I were over there for a few hours. We are looking forward to the
celebration tonight, the party. That is all part of it. We have an alumni lounge at the
hotel; most of the guys hang around it. Basically guys kind of stick with their own era of
players because you bonded together; your families are closer; wives are close, and but
still nice to be around the different generations. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT