ROSE BOWL GAME: USC VS PENN STATE
December 28, 2016
JuJu Smith-Schuster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just general thoughts about the Rose Bowl and specifically about the Penn State secondary, what you're seeing from them?  Give us your thoughts first on playing in the Rose Bowl Game.
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: I mean, playing in the Rose Bowl Game is like playing in the National Championship Game for me.  It's been the granddaddy bowl game of them all, and I think that to have the opportunity to play at the Rose Bowl is amazing.  Growing up as a kid living in LA it's the thing you watched.  You watched all the great SC players go and all the great SC teams go and play in it, so it's going to be an unbelievable game.
Q. Talk to us about the Penn State secondary in particular.  What do you see from them?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: Their secondary is probably one of the best secondaries we've seen this season.  I can say that like it's going to be a great battle between the balls being in the air, great ball skills that they have, even including ours, so for us to attack the ball, we've got to do it early and start fast.
Q. When you're looking at Penn State, what do they do differently that maybe you haven't seen before defensively?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: I mean, they're a very disciplined team, and they do their assignments on call, and like us at SC, they started off the season slow and they started to pick it up a lot faster, and it actually worked out.
Q. What's your first memory of the Rose Bowl?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: Man, the Rose Bowl, there's so many memories.  I mean, one recent one I can just say that we've been watching film on the last Rose Bowl against Penn State, and Mark Sanchez leading his team, and there's so many things you can talk about the Rose Bowl, but I think that the memory is going to be made January 2nd for me and for my future family and for myself.
Q. Did you think about playing in this game growing up in this community for USC?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: Oh, definitely.  I mean, if you live in Long Beach growing up, in LA, and watching USC, the Rose Bowl is the thing to go to.  Like I said, playing in a Rose Bowl is like playing in a National Championship.  It's an unbelievable game to be in, and I can't wait to play it.
Q. Have you been to the Rose Bowl for the Rose Bowl Game?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: I've never been to the Rose Bowl for the Rose Bowl Game.  I just watched it growing up as a kid.  Just to have the opportunity to play in it January 2nd, it's like a dream come true.
Q. When you visualize yourself walking out and seeing that amazing crowd, what's it been like for you as this game is getting closer and closer?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: It's been like all coming together, me and my teammates, we've been through a lot, and obviously they've been through a lot, too, but I think for us, I think the things that we've been through, and for us the outcome that we came out of here today was kind of shocked the world, and I think that that's the difference between us, and I mean, I can't say that we have home advantage because we've played here so many times, but I think our fan base will be very supportive, too.
Q. What's it like being able to sleep in your own bed, practice in your own facility, go to your own meeting rooms, versus the other bowl experiences that most other teams have?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: I think it's great.  I think that we have all our supplies and tools here, and you don't have to set up to make it seem like it's our stuff.  I think for us to have our own facility that's like 10, 15 minutes away from our hotel and be able to practice on our own field, be able to play in an environment like we play in, it's great.
Q. Rose Bowl, when you hear that phrase, what comes to your mind?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: Dominate the game.  There is no survivors and we're not taking no prisoners.
Q. Do you guys have that sign in your facility and look at it as you're walking out?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: Yeah, the first day we came back from break, there was Rose Bowls everywhere, our bus says Rose Bowl, USC Rose Bowl, and there was roses in our hotel, there was roses on our pillows when we sleep.  You smell roses.  That right there just explains everything.
Q. And then finally, for those who aren't living in this community, what do you think -- how can you describe the Rose Bowl being from here, playing in it for somebody that has never gone through that before?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: National Championship Game.  I think it's just as high as the National Championship Game.  I mean, it's the granddaddy bowl of them all.  The Rose Bowl is just something that, yeah, if you're not from here and you don't know much about it, it's hard to understand, but growing up here, it's like everything, you know, like being from LA and being from Pasadena.
Q. Can you give me a quick recap of yesterday, how fun it was to go to Disneyland?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: Oh, yeah.  I can say that's probably one of the funnest events that we have.  I mean, it's the first day.  Obviously you go to Disneyland, obviously there's no practice, and you're just there with family, teammates, coaches, and you're just having a great time, meeting fans from all over the world who come over and you're just having a great time.  I think that's probably one of the best memories ever.
Q. What was your favorite part of the day?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: Favorite part of the day was probably media all day, but it was fun.  I think the best part about it is the fans and how we were just walking around and they were just so excited to see us, and I think it's very important.
Q. Does that kind of make you feel like you were going to have the home field advantage knowing you were in LA and there's so many Trojan fans supporting you guys?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: Yeah, from watching the last game against Penn State in 2009, Penn State came and they called it white out, and there was a lot of Penn State fans.  I'd say we kind of do have the home advantage, but at the same time I'd say Penn State's fan base is pretty strong.
Q. From watching the 2009 game, what else did you learn?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: I just learned that they threw the ball a lot, so hopefully they throw the ball a lot this game.
Q. It's really amazing when you think about this club and what you've gone through over the last three, four, five years to get to the point to where you are right now.
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: Yeah, when I made my decision, it was a decision off of if SC was still in sanctions, and when I come here, the coaches were changing, so there was a lot that SC had going on.  My decision did include the sanctions and for them to be bowl eligible, and I thought of all that, and it came to my mind, well, I think after this year, my freshman year, we'll keep going on and keep striving to be a top-four team to just to get in a bowl game.  We worked so hard, and I think we changed that over the time, and I think SC has a great future ahead.
Q. What's the best thing about your team?  What does this team do that you really like and admire?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: I mean, I've learned over the time being with the team that, like I say, the closer you are with your family and brothers, it makes the game a lot easier.  Our first two games, it kind of didn't go our way, and I wish that we would have started off better, but at the same time, everything happens for a reason, and over that time period, like we had a team meeting where it was just only players only, there was no coaches, and people really opened up to each other and poured their emotions and feelings out how we really felt, and after that meeting we've never lost a game yet.
Q. And you really took off once Sam took over at the quarterback position.  Not knocking anyone else, but it was almost like it was meant for him to be there.
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: Yeah, most definitely.  Sam, him and Max fought for their battles, and Max is a great player, don't get me wrong, and Sam is also a great player, but when it comes down to the line, who's going to win, Sam kind of got the job done, and he did it for us.
Q. Isn't this a hectic week, Disneyland yesterday, here today, tomorrow you'll be eating at Lawry's?  There's so many things to do.
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: There's so many things to do, and that's the hard part when you have practice in the morning and after practice you have all these events where it kind of takes your mind off of the game, and you kind of -- not lose focus, but at the same time you still have to have that mindset like you can win the game.
Q. But you can hardly wait to get out there?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: I'm so excited.  I mean, you're a kid in LA and all you hear about is the Rose Bowl.
Q. After the Utah game, could you envision this team going on a long winning streak?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: Honestly, no.  You know, to be honest, I thought that we were going to struggle a few games.  Obviously when you hear Washington is doing good, Utah game hurt us a lot, and other teams like Arizona, ASU, in our conference were doing well, and for us, I mean, it's like, wow, man, we did decent with Sam starting that first game, but it wasn't enough for us to finish.
Q. When you look at Penn State on film, what impresses you about their secondary and what's going to be the challenge?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: Big guys, very aggressive and super physical, and I think this will probably be the most physical group that we've faced against, and I think it's going to be a great competition.
Q. When you look at Sam, one of the best red-zone quarterbacks in the country, 18 touchdowns, no picks.  Why is that?  And how impressive is that to you?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: It's very impressive.  For it to be a redshirt freshman to come in and start their game and to lead our team to where we're at today, it's very impressive, but I can't like -- I notice it.  Just because of the way he works in practice, how hard he works on and off the field, I mean, it's nothing new to us.  In practice he makes those crazy throws.  The other day he ran like -- it was -- had like an over, and he got flushed out to the right, and he run this way, and he threw the ball across his body across his field over two defenders, barely missed the tip, touchdown, and it's crazy the things that he can do that not a lot of quarterbacks can do.
Q. You guys have two of the best offenses in the country, yours and theirs.  If this turns into a shootout, how much fun would that be for you, and what do you anticipate?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: That would be great.  Obviously it would be great.  2009 they threw the ball a lot more, so hopefully we can throw more.
Q. And then this team obviously you guys have had similar pasts.  They struggled to start the year, rolled off nine in a row, you struggled at the start of the year, rolled off eight in a row.  How important is it for these two programs to meet in the Rose Bowl?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: I mean, it's very important.  You see these two teams, they both went through the dark just to find the light, and fighting just to be in the light, and I think that both teams learned that playing together as brothers and families is bringing us even closer.  It makes the game a lot easier, so I think both teams are going to have -- it's going to be a great game.
Q. At practice you were talking about that touchdown; was that to you?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: Yeah.
Q. Talk about the camaraderie, the rhythm that you have with Sam.
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: The thing about Sam is he's more of an every-receiver quarterback.  He's kind of like -- he's kind of like a quarterback who you can just -- you can just throw any receiver in and he'll make it work.  That's not just for me, that's for Darreus Rogers, that's for Steven Mitchell, that's for all the guys -- De'Quan, Isaac.  I'm not saying he's like a Tom Brady, I'm just saying Tom Brady is a quarterback where you can put any receiver in, and slow, fast, low routes, route running, he'll make it work, and I can say like that's the type of dude he is.  He passes the ball everywhere.
Q. Were you ever surprised by -- Sam off the field was pretty quiet and shy.  Were you surprised by how on the field how assertive he is?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: Yeah.  Sam, quiet off the field?  Yeah, he's pretty quiet off the field.  No, sorry.  Yeah, I was very surprised.  I didn't talk to the kid that much freshman year.  I knew about him and would say hi here and there, but when he actually stepped on the football field, and I heard about him freshman year.  I used to watch scouts versus like -- I used to watch highlights, and obviously Sam was the quarterback.  He would like dice our first defense, and it would just be like, wow, this kid is special.  It was funny, he had a quick story, I guess Ricky Town was like the other quarterback coming in, and Sam -- somebody told me like yeah, Sam had the No. 1 quarterback ranking and Sam was like, I think he said, the best player plays, right?  Basically saying competition.  And he said, okay.  And he just said, okay, and he came here and he dominated the game.  And it's just like, he takes his work very seriously.
Q. You guys have been one of the best first-half teams in the country.  You've seen all the comebacks that Penn State has done.  How much is that in the back of your mind knowing this is a team that can always come back?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: Yeah, that's the one thing.  We have to get a huge lead.  Penn State, they're huge in coming back in the second half.  Their games have just been unbelievable, and for us to get ahead and stay ahead.  Like I said, if we start fast and they start finishing strong, we have to maintain just keeping that drive ahead.
Q. When Sam came in the huddle the first time, did it feel different that first game when he was named starter?  How did it change the energy of your team?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: So the thing with Sam, he brings a lot more different.  He's able to run the ball.  He's able to throw the ball.  He's able to run out of the pocket and throw the ball, and it brought a lot.  It was a lot different.  He had options to run the ball.  You have option to run the ball at the running back and options to throw the ball all in one play.  And the vibe that he brought was like -- he was just calm, and even in situations where he threw picks, he was calm, or fumbled it.  He was just calm, like a calm quarterback, like we're not done yet.
Q. Your offense has kept him upright.  How much of your success has to do with guys like Zach and the guys up front?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: Oh, it does a lot.  Like I said, you win the games in the trenches and it starts from the O-line, and without the O-line you can't get nothing, you can't run the ball, you can't throw the ball.  It helps out a lot.
Q. Real quick for the guys back there, can I have your name and your position?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: Juju Smith-Schuster, No. 9, wide receiver.
Q. I know you've been asked this before, but how does it feel to play in the Rose Bowl?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: It's amazing.  I think it's one of the best feelings ever.  I consider it as like playing in the National Championship Game.  It's kind of like a game you grew up watching, now it's just like time to play.
Q. When you were a kid, where did you want to play college?  What were your dreams?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: My dream just watching like Reggie Bush and like Mark Sanchez and Joe McKnight playing in the Rose Bowl, it's one of the best feelings that I can say.  Like I said, just being from LA, it's like, that's the game to play in, and I think it's unbelievable now that it's here, that it's come true, and it's a blessing.
Q. Would you say the Pac-12 defense has stepped up this season?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: Oh, yeah.  I would say that our defense stepped up this season, I mean, huge.  Coach Pendergast being our DC, and for him to change the game around, he did -- this defense is unbelievable.  What he brings to the table, it's something that we needed a long time, and it helps out a lot.
Q. Do you think the Penn State defense will bring you a new challenge?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: Oh, yeah, most definitely.  They're very -- they're strong guys, physical, and I think it's probably one of the best secondaries we'll probably face against this year.
Q. How has this Rose Bowl experience been for you so far?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: Oh, it's been amazing.  The first day when you don't have practice and you're coming back from Christmas, and basically you just go to Disneyland and you just spend time with your family, friends and teammates and have a great time.  You get fast passes, $15 vouchers, so it can't be matched.
Q. How is the Rose Bowl different from past bowl games that you've been in?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: Every bowl game I've been it's been in California.  The last one was in San Diego, but when you compare the Rose Bowl to the Holiday Bowl, they're both great bowl games, but the Rose Bowl is more significant.  It's more of a game that's like probably -- like I said, it's the daddy bowl game of them all.  It's been here for longer.  It's the 130th Rose Bowl.  I think it's just amazing, though.  It's just a blessing just to be here and play in it.
Q. Was this one of your childhood goals growing up and playing football?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: Yeah, next to the National Championship Game, the Rose Bowl is like the second highest to me, I guess, so this is it.
Q. Seemed like the last month you had every injury.  Seemed like you had the back, you had the thumb.  How do you feel now compared to where you were the last few games?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: I feel about like 90 percent.  Obviously I feel having those long breaks, two weeks off, like no practice, and I think that Christmas break was also good, too, but really, I haven't been in the training room a lot, but I've been taking care of my body a lot more better, and like I said, for this game, I'll probably be about 90 percent.
Q. For a while you said you were getting in the training room like at 7:00 a.m. or something like that.
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: Yeah, I was in there pretty early, and I was in there, and after practice, before practice, and now it's just -- I mean, always we have like our bowl events, stuff like that.  I'm pretty much in there after practice today.
Q. How much has the time helped your problem the last couple games?  How much has the time off helped you regain your explosiveness?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: Oh, it helped a lot.  I had time to myself to help myself.  We had two weeks off, no practice, and obviously when you have Christmas break, too, it kind of gives us even more time.  I mean, today was actually our first practice for the bowl game, so I'm excited to go back out there, get out there.
Q. How much pain were you fighting through, now that you can look back on it?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: None.  Yeah.
Q. Early in the season looking back, I remember the games like Alabama, coach was talking about how teams were kind of doubling you and putting a safety up top.  The way Sam is able to kind of spread the ball around and Darreus asserting himself, has that taken pressure off you?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: Most definitely.  Those opportunities, obviously when you get doubled it gets frustrating, all of a sudden you need a second guy and third guy to step up, and my teammate Darreus Rogers, he did that for me.  He's the third down king.  I haven't seen him drop the ball in third down.  I think that's huge and it opened up a package for me where I can move around to play slot, to play outside, and just keeps the offense flowing.
Q. Do you feel less pressure because of guys like that?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: Oh, yeah, most definitely.  It's like Amari Cooper and Crabtree.
Q. T was saying how important it is for guys like you and Adoree'.  What does it mean to you to be at the Rose Bowl now?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: I mean, it means a lot.  For me, I can say that my decision was also based on sanctions and being able to be bowl eligible for games, and I mean, it changed, and the coaching changed, too.  It was an opportunity I saw.  Me and the boys talking about it coming out of high school, let's go to SC and kill it and try to make it to the top bowl game.  I mean, now we're here, and we're five, six days away from playing in the Rose Bowl.
Q. What does it mean to you to be part of that historic USC legacy now of the Rose Bowl teams?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: Yeah, it's amazing, God willing hopefully we win and be the Rose Bowl team No. 25.  It's going to be great.
Q. How was Disneyland yesterday?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: That was so fun, man.  Although we had media all day, other than that, I think it was a great time.  We had VIP passes.  There was probably one ride I regret is probably the log ride with Adoree'.  I got soaked out.  That was just like so not fun, so I went home early, but other than that, it was a great day.
Q. How is the whole bowl experience, whether it's here, the Holiday Bowl, just having to go through all the different events and things like that?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: I think it's fun.  I think a lot of people do a lot of things, and they work their butt off to get what we want and what we need, and I think that's a part of the whole experience of having that Rose Bowl feeling, and that's the best part about it.
Q. Talk about your experiences so far this bowl season and kind of getting ready for this big game.
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: Oh, the Rose Bowl, I mean, the best part about it you don't have to leave home for it.  It's right in your backyard.  Yesterday we went to Disneyland, which was fun.  Did media all day, got to meet some fans from all over the world who came out to support us, and just being able to have VIP passes to go on rides and have a lot of fun.
Q. What was your favorite ride?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: Favorite ride was probably Space Mountain.  Yeah, it was pretty cool.
Q. When you looked at the schedule of events, what were you most excited about?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: The most -- I think the best part was at the beginning with the confetti and the cars and being able to do the -- wait, wait.  I take that back.  My favorite ride was the car race.
Q. I've heard that's the best one.
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: It is the best one.  That one was my favorite one.  Least favorite is probably the log ride.  You get soaked.  It was horrible.  But other than that, I think the cars was pretty fun, but the best part I would probably say was the confetti at the beginning, like the ceremony and being able to see everybody that came out to support.
Q. How much do you enjoy the whole buildup of a bowl game, all these things you guys get to do together and kind of bond before the last big game?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: Yes, it's all about family.  We worked so hard, I think we deserve to have some freedom and fun time, and for us to go to Disneyland, to go to the comedy skit, to go to events that we can do as brothers and family, but at the end of the day, it's all about one thing, it's about winning the game.
Q. When you first heard the words Rose Bowl, what did you think?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: The history of SC, so much historic memories that's been played in the Rose Bowl, I think for us to be a part of it, and like I said, to be the No. 25 team to win the game, it's going to be great.
Q. What was your kind of initial thought about when you guys started this season 1-3 and you guys were able to turn it around and hit a nine-game winning streak, what does that say about this program?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: That says a lot.  How I think of it, it's not how you start, it's how you finish, and I think we're finishing very strong and we have one more game to go to, and I think it's going to be a great one.
Q. Why do you think you were able to dig out of that tough time?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: I think it's more of a -- after the Utah game we had a players' meeting, and we stopped being individuals and we came together as teammates.  It's all about -- it's not about you, it's about the team, it's about USC, it's about the name that's on the back of your jersey and who you represent.
Q. How fun has it been to see Sam grow as a leader?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: He's not quiet when he's with us.  Sam, he's a very young, mature man that has a lot to grow, and I think he just gets better and better on the field as he works.
Q. What is different about this team than other teams you've ever played with?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: They've been through the same downfall we've been through.  They lost their games at the beginning and now they're on a winning streak, and I think that both teams have a lot of emotions and feelings, especially as 2009 -- it sounds like it's far, but it's not, it's recent for two teams to make it back to the Rose Bowl, and I think it's going to be a great game.
Q. How would you describe this group of players?  You guys play with such joy and enthusiasm all the time.  Have you loved that so much?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: Oh, I love it.  I love it so much.  I think probably one of the funnest games was playing against Notre Dame in the rain, and it was probably like -- it could be my last, it could be just the start of my senior year.  And I think that feeling of just being there in the rain and having so much fun, like man, embrace it.  It's LA, you don't get this a lot.  And the boys on this team is unbelievable.
Q. How much do you think about the future right now, or are you 100 percent Rose Bowl?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: I'm 90 percent Rose Bowl.  I mean, the 10 percent is just the emotions and feelings, like I want to play again.  I want to come back and possibly win a National Championship, and there's so many things that goes through my mind.  I can't sit here and lie to you guys and say it doesn't cross my mind.
Q. Who are some of the people that have given you advice to make that decision and lead you in the right direction?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: Obviously my mother and father.  I've talked to former teammates.  I've talked to even the players now that I'm with.  My cousins that are on the team, too.  All great advice, coaches.
Q. Adoree' said that when you guys got the Rose Bowl that Keyshawn reached out to him and gave him advice for the game.  Have any alumni reached out to you?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: I mean, not really.  I've just been talking more to the coaches and just keeping my head straight.
Q. Will we see a lot of dancing from you this game?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: I get one personal foul for celebration, so I'll try to get just one.
Q. Do you have the dance prepared?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: I'll save it for the game.
Q. It's not the JuJu, though?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: I don't know, it could be anything.
Q. You kind of talked about the inexperience of some of the other guys, just the youth of them.  As one who went through the struggles and things like that, how much more does that make this a valuable experience for you?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: It makes it a lot more.  When you think about everything we've been through and all the hard practices, all the waking up at 6:00 a.m. for practice and all the tutoring, for getting in trouble for not going to tutoring, for missing a class, it all piles up, and it's like, man, we came so far, and we can't stop now.
Q. How do you keep the young guys level headed and have them experience the fact that this isn't a normal thing?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: Yeah, we tell them all the time, like you've got to stay humble.  You've got to act like you've been here, act like you've been to a big stage like this, and I think for us, it's just like -- after this game, then you guys just got to stay level headed.
Q. I think I read a quote from Helton saying, USC is back to normal now.  Do you feel like USC is back now, USC football is back?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: Yes, I think USC football is back and I think there's a lot more in the future that's going to be great for this program.
Q. You guys are the only team that's played both Washington and Alabama.  Will you pay attention to that game?  Try to break that down for me.
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: I mean, obviously I'm rooting for the Pac-12 against Alabama.  I mean, people say, oh, if Washington beats Alabama then you guys beat Alabama, too.  No it doesn't work like that.  I mean, I think that I wish we had the team that we have now at the beginning of the season to play against Alabama.  I think it would be a different game, a different story.  But at the same time, everything happens for a reason, and I'm happy where we're at today.
Q. Would you beat Alabama if you played them again?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: With our team now?
Q. Yeah.
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: Yes.
Q. T was just saying he knew Sam would be fine, early game, maybe the first game, and you came back to the huddle and you were telling Sam something about a pass route, and Sam said, this is how I want you to do it, and he said, nobody takes it personally, he just wants everybody on the same page.  Did you think, wow, this guy, his first time out there and he's telling me what to do?
JUJU SMITH-SCHUSTER: Yeah, yeah, I always told Sam, hey, Sam, like no, this is what I'm going to do, this is my route.  But no, he always sticks to the game plan.  But as a quarterback and as a receiver, he always communicates and makes sure you're on the same page, even if he has to even clarify it to make sure you guys are on the same page.  But I think that's just a connection between me and Sam is that we have that connection of not being able to just to be scared of each other and not talk to each other but to be able to communicate with each other.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT