CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 24, 2013
Samantha Richdale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Could you maybe describe your day for us?  
SAMANTHA RICHDALE:   Yeah, I just kind of struggled out there.   I didn't really hit it that well.   But I got a birdie on my 17th hole, which was an ace.   I hit a couple good shots on my 18th hole and kind of lipped out the birdie, but it was still a good putt.   
   
 Q.   What was your challenge out there today?  
SAMANTHA RICHDALE:   You know, my ball‑striking has sort of been a little skeptical this whole week, a little sketchy.   Just try and work on that on the range and hopefully go out there and hit it a little bit better tomorrow, scramble a little bit better.  
   
 Q.   Being one of two Canadians to make the cut, what does that mean to you?  
SAMANTHA RICHDALE:   You know, it means a lot to me to be able to come out here and play.   It's a great experience to come out here and play in this tournament.   I love being in a Canadian Open and close to home.   I've got lots of family and friends that came out to watch, so that's really nice.  
   
 Q.   What do you need to do tomorrow?  
SAMANTHA RICHDALE:   You know, tomorrow I just want to go out and enjoy my round, enjoy that my family is here, that I get to play on the weekend and have some fun.   
   
 Q.   What kind of difference does it make having your family here and being somewhat close to home?  
SAMANTHA RICHDALE:   Yeah, it's nice.   You have like a little cheering squad going around with you.   I can always hear my mom and dad screaming in the background, so that's nice.  
   
 Q.   Does it make you more nervous or less nervous?  
SAMANTHA RICHDALE:   Oh, it's awesome having them around.   It's kind of like a calming event, kind of just like you're at home.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you're getting more comfortable now, or what's the biggest struggle?  
SAMANTHA RICHDALE:   It's still about the same.   Like I said, my ball‑striking has been a little terrible this week so far, so I just didn't scramble as well today, so I just need to go out on the range, practice a little bit and hopefully figure something out for tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   What was your mindset coming into this tournament?   
SAMANTHA RICHDALE:   You know, I've had a pretty good year so far.   I'm 24th on the Money List on the Symetra Tour, so that's going pretty well, with a couple of events left.   And I won the BC event for the CN event here to get into this event, so I feel like I've had some pretty good finishes this year, and so I was pretty confident coming into this week.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT