CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 26, 2011
Samantha Richdale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   SAMANTHA RICHDALE: It was a little tough. I hit some shots today that I didn't really expect and missed a few putts. But I was proud of myself that I was able to battle back and make some birdies on the back nine.  
  
  Q. Did you feel more pressure because of the round yesterday?   
 SAMANTHA RICHDALE: I just wanted to play well again today. It was nice to be up at the top, and you just kind of want to follow that up. I kind of lost it there for a bit, but I'm happy I was able to get some birdies back in the end.  
  
  Q. Would you say the course was tougher or was it the same as yesterday?   
 SAMANTHA RICHDALE: I asked my caddie that. He was kind of like it's the same. It always feels tougher when your shots are going a little sideways. I guess it was playing about the same, I just wasn't making as many good shots and making as many putts.  
  
  Q. What are your expectations for this weekend?  
 SAMANTHA RICHDALE: I definitely want to move up. I'm trying to make it into some LPGA events later this year where I have to move up on the money list. So I'm looking forward to playing some good golf on the weekend.  
  
  Q. What is the most important thing for you when you're scuffling maybe a bit at the beginning? How do you help regain your focus? How do you do that?   
 SAMANTHA RICHDALE: You know, it's just trying to keep calm, keep good thoughts out there. Try to get some kind of kind of swing working for you where you can control it and get up-and-down.  
  
  Q. What do you think you were doing wrong on the front nine and what did you do right on the back?   
 SAMANTHA RICHDALE: You know, I think to hit it sideways like that after you've played well, it's just small stuff, right? Your tempo might be a little off. I was a little nervous this morning. I want to play well, but maybe not focused on the right things.   
 So on the back nine I just kind of got a bit better tempo, and like I said, some of my putts rolled in.  
  
  Q. You birdied 10. Can you tell us about that hole?   
 SAMANTHA RICHDALE: I kind of forget 10. I can't remember the putt I made. But I think I made three good shots.   
 Oh, I remember now. Yeah, I rolled a really nice putt there and it went in, so it was kind of a nice way to get me going.  
  
  Q. Have you ever dreamed to be 5-under at the Canadian Open?   
 SAMANTHA RICHDALE: You know, I've never really thought specifically on a score or anything like that. But to be kind of in contention and playing on the weekend and give myself a chance to be up there is nice.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT