AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: TIGERS v ATHLETICS
October 13, 2006
Placido Polanco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  The way you've played in this postseason, how is it different from watching postseason games in the past and visualizing yourself doing it?   
 PLACIDO POLANCO:  Well, it's just one of those things.  That's just the way the game goes.  Sometimes you're going to have good games, sometimes you're going to have bad games.   
 I'm just happy that I'm doing what I'm doing for the team.  But one of those things, no explanation.  But every time you're up there, you want to do good.   
  
  Q.  You get a lot of the bat on the ball all the time.  That's your trademark.  But explain a little bit about how different it's been here the last week when you have been so hot.  What are you feeling?  What are you seeing?  There's got to be something happening here that maybe you could let us in on?   
 PLACIDO POLANCO:  I guess I'm just working extra because, remember, I was off for a month and I wanted to be back for the playoffs.  I'm just taking a lot of extra swings with a hitting coach in the cage, and that's the only different things that I'm doing.   
 I always work in the cage, but this time I guess I'm taking more swings.  But that's it.   
  
  Q.  Were you concerned that you weren't going to be able to come back?  I mean, how concerned were you I guess is the question?   
 PLACIDO POLANCO:  Very, very concerned, because I knew that we had a shot at the playoffs, and I didn't know if I was going to be able to play.  You don't get the opportunity every year.  I was very worried.   
  
  Q.  What's the state of your shoulder now?   
 PLACIDO POLANCO:  I would say maybe in the 90s, 95 percent maybe.  There's some days that it feels better than others, maybe depending on the weather.   
  
  Q.  Did the cold hurt you today?   
 PLACIDO POLANCO:  Not really.  I put on some extra heat in there.   
  
  Q.  Tell me the difference between preparing for batting second versus batting third in the lineup?   
 PLACIDO POLANCO:  Same, same.  I'm not going to change my approach.  I'm not going to try to hit the ball out of the park, I'm just going to try to put the good part of the bat on the ball and make something happen.  Skipper, I'm pretty sure, is going to hit in a row with me; he's going to squeeze, do all that stuff.  I'm pretty sure he won't put me in the first spot, not expecting homeruns.  I'm pretty sure.   
  
  Q.  What's it like playing defense behind Kenny Rogers?  And talk a little bit about the way he pitched tonight.   
 PLACIDO POLANCO:  Very, very good, especially when the weather is like this.  I mean, you want to be on your toes, and he really keeps you on your toes because he throws a lot of strikes and they're going to put the ball in play for him.  So it's just amazing, another outstanding performance by Mr. Rogers today.   
  
  Q.  Going back to when you came here, this team, this franchise, was not very good when they made that trade.  How did you look at that at that point as far as how it was going to affect your career coming here?   
 PLACIDO POLANCO:  Well, they wanted me, right, and I looked around and I saw Guillen, Magglio, Pudge and all the talent that we had, and still have, and I thought, We have a shot here and they want me, so why not stay here.  They've been great.  The people in the clubhouse, teammates, everybody, front office, so it's been great, and that's why I decided.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT