NBA ALL-STAR 2020
February 14, 2020
Jaren Jackson Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So you obviously have a lot of chemistry with the point guards, like you and Ja. Is there a team that you ever saw that you wanted to be like?
JAREN JACKSON JR.: You mean like a duo?
Q. Yeah, kind of two that you admired?
JAREN JACKSON JR.: I think -- shoot, there's so many different like duos. You've got like Kobe and Shaq, even though that's like two different things. But our favorite players are KD and Russell Westbrook, so I guess that's a duo you look up to a lot.
Q. Does it feel different this year?
JAREN JACKSON JR.: Yeah, it's a different feel because, obviously, around this time now, we have a better record. It's just a lot more excitement. Right now I feel like -- yeah, I think it's just a lot more fun. I feel good.
Q. You got your guy Miles Bridges here. Do you miss being roommates at all?
JAREN JACKSON JR.: Yeah, I always miss being roommates. That was just a fun time.
Q. Who do you think will win the Slam Dunk contest?
JAREN JACKSON JR.: I don't know. I feel like Aaron [Gordon] will come out and go crazy. But don't sleep on Pat [Connaughton]. Don't sleep on Pat. You've got to make your dunks. If Pat makes his dunks, I feel like he has a chance at it. But I'm going to say Pat just to get everybody talking.
Q. In 2016, you shared a team Collin Sexton. How was your journey to playing in Spain and your workout to being here at All-Star?
JAREN JACKSON JR.: Yeah, that was my guy. He was my roommate when we were playing. I remember when he told me his goal is to win MVP, and he won it coming off the bench. So that was crazy. I've been around him forever, at a lot of different camps and a lot of different events. It's just great playing with him now.
Q. On the Grizzlies:
JAREN JACKSON JR.: I think team chemistry has been good. We're all together. We care about playing defense, which is a big thing. You've got to make that your staple. And then at the end of the day, we're just very competitive, and we have a lot of confidence. So we go out there and just do what we've got to do.
Q. On the small ball trend:
JAREN JACKSON JR.: I think it depends on what team you got. You look at guys like Jokic and guys like Valanciunas, they can do damage in the post. If you've got a guy that can make your team better by playing in the post and playing a different style of basketball, you might as well do it. It's up to the coach and whatever personnel you have. Play with everybody's strength. If you have guys with that type of strength, you should do that.
Q. What's it like playing with Brandon?
JAREN JACKSON JR.: Oh, it's amazing. Playing with a guy like him who's so explosive and somebody I can bounce off of really well, it's a lot of fun. We also get along so well. That's my guy. There's nothing more I could ask for. It's a lot of fun playing with him on the court.
Q. What do you like about playing in Chicago?
JAREN JACKSON JR.: There's a lot of memories here, like you say. McDonald's, so many different things I've been here for, Champions Classic. Yeah, this is a place that's been down the street. I lived in Indy, played at Michigan State. This has always been like a hub that's near me. So just playing here brings a lot of memories, brings a lot of my family together to watch me play, and it's great.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT