ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 2, 2014
Jamie McLeary
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I guess we should start with the finish?  
    JAMIE McLEARY:   Yeah, perfect drive on the last.   I had 261.   Wind was pretty much straight off the left, hit hybrid.   I thought when I first saw it come down, because I flushed it, I was trying to aim it just left of the pin but I started it on the pin but absolutely ripped it and it moved off maybe eight, ten yards just right of the pin.   
    When I first seen it bounce, I thought it went long because it looked like it took quite a big hop but it obviously didn't because it was pin‑high, 30 feet.   I didn't think the putt was getting there at any point, but just seemed to keep on going and then right at the end and I thought, oh, this is going to miss right, and it went in.   Nice way to finish.  
   
 Q.   Make lunch taste better?   
    JAMIE McLEARY:   Yeah, exactly.   I was having a good day anyway.   2‑putt, 4‑under, which I thought was really good score in the conditions.   The back nine, as soon as I got into the fourth, that's when I really felt it.   When it came up high, it was really, really windy at that point.   Happy with the score, it was good.   
   
 Q.   The last hour the wind has really got up.   
    JAMIE McLEARY:   Yeah, the last hour, hour and a half, something like that.   It's just so windy out there.   I saw some of the scores.   I don't know where those guys are; wonder what golf course they are playing.   
   
 Q.   Carnoustie.   
    JAMIE McLEARY:   Flat calm out there.   
   
 Q.   Have you played much here?  
    JAMIE McLEARY:   I'm from Fife, so I have not played the courses loads but I've played them enough that I know them.   Probably played them as much as guys who have been here five or six years have played them.   
    I won a tournament as an amateur around St. Andrews, so I know it really well.   I love the golf course.   I know it's not everybody's cup of tea but the more you play it, the more you get to love it and it's an unbelievable atmosphere.  
   
 Q.   Put this round in context, there's glimpse in recent times, in Holland‑‑  
    JAMIE McLEARY:   I was leading after 16 holes‑‑ I went bogey, bogey the next two days.   I don't think I would have done that if I had finished 18 holes and the eighth hole isn't one you want to be starting on.   It's 220, par 3, downhill, and the green looks tiny from way up on the tee.   It's not ideal.   
   
 Q.   A bit of misfortune?  
    JAMIE McLEARY:   Yeah, I could have easily finished par, par, but after that, I don't know what's been happening.   I'm having some good rounds, the same with my last round in Wales.   I was 5‑under through 11, absolutely cruising the last day and I just keep on making some really high numbers off not that bad a shot.   Just leaked it right of the water there.   
    I'm just trying to play too well, I think, instead of just like this week‑‑ I know playing these courses, you don't have to play amazingly well.   You just need to hit to certain spots on the greens.  
    I think that's maybe what I've been doing.   I've been getting into decent places and thinking, right, I need to push on from here instead of just playing golf and shoot a decent score instead of trying to shoot an amazing score every day.   I think that's what I've been doing.   I know around these sort of places, you don't need to.   So hopefully that's a good omen for the week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT