NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 21, 2002
Anna Kournikova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Anna.  
 
 
Q.  Can you talk about the match and what happened?  Was it disappointing?
 
ANNA KOURNIKOVA:  Yeah, definitely.  But I think that the reason for this loss is that I don't have enough matches.  And I played in Indian Wells, first round.  Didn't play so well here.  I was already playing better but I guess it's the match practice that I need.  And, you know, at the end of the match I started playing better, but it just was too late. 
 
Q.  Did she surprise you with how well she played?
 
ANNA KOURNIKOVA:  Well, right now everybody's playing really well.  You know, you just have to really concentrate and get ready for every match.  But, like I said, I didn't really feel comfortable 'cause I haven't played enough matches.  
 
Q.  What do you think it will take for you to get to that form where you need to be to compete, especially here, in a place where obviously you're familiar with and from? 
 
ANNA KOURNIKOVA:  Playing, of course, (smiling) and starting to win.  You know, in the last  -- since Mexico, I played two matches.  That's obviously not enough.  That's, what, four weeks or something like that, three and a half?  So that's a long time without playing.  And that's what I need.  I just have to get through this and try next week and, you know, next tournament.  I think that I'm playing better, and everything just has to come together.  Just have to start playing more, and that's it.  
 
Q.  Is there any extra excitement or disappointment with the fact that you're playing in front of an area where you live and everyone just comes out because you're living here now? 
 
ANNA KOURNIKOVA:  Well, it's definitely both.  I mean, it's exciting and it's a little bit difficult.  But I had fun, you know.  I was enjoying playing.  And didn't go my way; next time.  
 
Q.  Do you hear the things that people say in the crowd?  They're always sort of chanting, "Come on, Anna," things like that?  Can that be a distraction, or do you like it?
 
ANNA KOURNIKOVA:  I just, you know, when I'm out there I just feel the atmosphere.  Like today was great.  And a great atmosphere always makes a great match, and it helps.  It's always more exciting to play.  
 
Q.  What is coming for Anna in the future?  What is the next tournament? 
 
ANNA KOURNIKOVA:  Amelia Island.  
 
Q.  Are you going back to Family Circle?  You didn't play last time.  What do you think of that?  It's in a new venue now.
 
ANNA KOURNIKOVA:  I don't know what I think about it because I have to be there first.  Just like you said, it's a first venue, but I'm sure it's great.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT