TMS - INDIAN WELLS, WOMEN
March 12, 2000
Anna Kournikova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 WTA: Questions for Anna.  
 
Q. It looked like nobody wanted to hold serve, couldn't hold serve. What was going on
out there? 
 
 ANNA KOURNIKOVA: I don't think that was the problem. I think, you know, in the first
set there was only a couple of breaks, and then in the second, also in the beginning were
breaks, but then it was the other way. I don't think that was the factor today.  
 
Q. Why were you able to make a great comeback in the second set, another comeback in
the third? Why weren't you able to put away that match?
 
 ANNA KOURNIKOVA: It was a pretty strange match, you know, up-and-down. We were both
playing up-and-down. I think that once we were ahead, either her or me, we kind of felt
strange. But I didn't really feel very comfortable out there. It was strange, you know,
rhythm and everything for me today. 
 
Q. What kind of adjustments did you make in the second set to rally to come back?
 
 ANNA KOURNIKOVA: I don't know (laughter). No, I thought that I became a bit more
patient, and she started to make mistakes, so I used that. I was playing more aggressive
than before. 
 
Q. Were you having some problems with your legs out there? Seemed like you were
cramping.
 
 ANNA KOURNIKOVA: Yeah, a little bit at the end. 
 
Q. Was that when you were running wide for that shot, your knee sort of pulled or
tweaked?
 
 ANNA KOURNIKOVA: No. 
 
Q. What was it then?
 
 ANNA KOURNIKOVA: Like he said, it was cramping. I said yeah.  
 
Q. I couldn't hear him, sorry. 
 
 ANNA KOURNIKOVA: That's okay.  
 
Q. In the second set before you came back, you were making a lot of unforced errors.
You hit the ball into the net three or four times, getting frustrated. Then it was like a
light switch went on where you took those five in a row. Did you calm yourself down and
focus on what you needed to be doing?
 
 ANNA KOURNIKOVA: No. I tried to calm myself down the whole set, but it didn't seem to
work. It seemed to work when I was only 5-1. I think she was playing, you know, very well
in the second set. I mean, I didn't give her any opportunities to miss. She was playing
just deep and playing in the corners. I was making all the mistakes and doing all the
running. 
 
Q. What happened there at the start of the third set? Do you think maybe you got a
relaxed after pulling out the second set?
 
 ANNA KOURNIKOVA: No. I think she was kind of relaxed. She lost the second set, she
relaxed and started to play good again. I kind of tried to go for too much again.  
 
Q. Did she beat you out there or did you beat yourself today?
 
 ANNA KOURNIKOVA: Oh, it's hard to judge because, you know, we were both playing
up-and-down, like I said. 
 
Q. Is this disappointing?
 
 ANNA KOURNIKOVA: Well, any loss is disappointing, of course. I was losing 5-1 and
4-Love, I came back, so I could do better. I'm just going to have to go back and work and
get ready for the next tournament.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT