TMS - INDIAN WELLS, WOMEN
March 11, 2000
Anna Kournikova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 BROOKE LAWER: Questions for Anna.  
 
Q. How was it waiting so late to start? Was that a problem at all? 
 
 ANNA KOURNIKOVA: Waiting so late?  
 
Q. Because you had to wait for that men's qualifying match to get over and everything. 
 
 ANNA KOURNIKOVA: We started eight minutes late. I don't think that was so late. We were
scheduled to play at 11:30.  
 
Q. Your service, what changes did you make from last year to this year, if any?
 
 ANNA KOURNIKOVA: None. 
 
Q. Nothing?
 
 ANNA KOURNIKOVA: No.  
 
Q. Today you looked more fluid and consistent. 
 
 ANNA KOURNIKOVA: The motion and everything is the same.  
 
Q. So everything is the same?
 
 ANNA KOURNIKOVA: Yeah. 
 
Q. You had an early exit last year. Was that something that was on your mind going into
this match, into the tournament?
 
 ANNA KOURNIKOVA: No, not really. I felt that I can gain a lot of points here because I
did lose here first round last year. I had a flu last year. I didn't practice a week
before this tournament. I wasn't really concerned that I lost just because I was here,
just because I wasn't physically a hundred percent. 
 
Q. In the beginning of the match, your backhand was struggling. What was the reason?
What was happening?
 
 ANNA KOURNIKOVA: I think everything was struggling in the beginning. I wasn't like
struggling. She was playing really well, solid, very hard. I just had to find the rhythm
and find a way to play against her because I've never played against her. I think it was
just everything.  
 
Q. What do you think of the new tennis facility? What are your impressions of this
place?
 
 ANNA KOURNIKOVA: It's huge. It's great for tennis. It's very comfortable, everything.
You know, when the facility is new, obviously they build it for a big tournament. It's
very comfortable for us. 
 
Q. Does it remind you of anywhere else?
 
 ANNA KOURNIKOVA: No. It has its own special feeling.  
 
Q. Are you going to play Fed Cup in April in Moscow?
 
 ANNA KOURNIKOVA: Yeah, definitely, if I'm not like injured or something. For sure.
Hopefully, I won't be.  
 
Q. How close are you to being able to beat players like Lindsay?
 
 ANNA KOURNIKOVA: Well, I've beaten them before. 
 
Q. But you lost to her last week 6-2, 6-2. 
 
 ANNA KOURNIKOVA: Yeah. 
 
Q. Do you feel like you can consistently play at a high level to be able to beat
players like her week-in and week-out, or are you still a little too inconsistent with
your game?
 
 ANNA KOURNIKOVA: I think I'm able to play consistent. I played very consistent this
year. Since I came back after my injury, I played very consistent. My ranking shows that
you can't be there without playing consistent. It's just that I have to play more
consistent during the match when I play against those kind of players.  
 
Q. So you're still happy with your progress as a player, or do you feel like you should
have won a title by now?
 
 ANNA KOURNIKOVA: It's not like a subject to win a title. For me, the ranking is more
important. For me, if I'm ranked in the Top 10, that's what's important for me. That means
that I had very good results the whole year, that I'm playing consistent. One title, you
can just win a tournament, you know, not play the rest of the year good or the whole year
good. For me, it's more important to have the good ranking.  
 
Q. I was watching you practice yesterday. You seemed a bit upset. Is there anything to
that?
 
 ANNA KOURNIKOVA: When? First practice or second practice?  
 
Q. I only saw one. 
 
 ANNA KOURNIKOVA: I don't know which one you saw.  
 
Q. Can you talk a little about your practice with Eric and what is specific with him,
the amount of work? Is there any difference from before?
 
 ANNA KOURNIKOVA: From before?  
 
Q. When you had another coach. 
 
 ANNA KOURNIKOVA: No. I just think that we work very well together. We communicate well.
We understand each other. Of course, Eric knows the game. He has a lot of experience.
We've just been working on improving my consistency, like I said, working so my game
becomes more well-rounded, trying to mature my game. We are very good together, I think.
I'm very happy with him.  
 
Q. And any specificity? When you say "to mature my game," what does it mean
exactly?
 
 ANNA KOURNIKOVA: To play clever shots at the right time, just to use the situation, to
use the right shots, like I said, at the right time, to not go for winners, to play smart.
 
 
Q. Martina Hingis and her mother were very careful watching all of your match. I was
wondering, do you have any comments about that? Is that maybe you're going to play again
doubles with her?
 
 ANNA KOURNIKOVA: A lot of players watch each other's matches. It's normal. Why not?
Maybe in the future we will play. I will see.  
 
Q. Since you were discussing ranking, if you don't get injured this year, do you expect
to end the year in the Top 5?
 
 ANNA KOURNIKOVA: If I don't, sorry?  
 
Q. If you don't get injured, get to play all the tournaments. 
 
 ANNA KOURNIKOVA: That would be my goal, yeah.  
 
Q. Do you think you can get there without winning tournaments?
 
 ANNA KOURNIKOVA: Going to have to wait and see.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT