CHASE CHAMPIONSHIPS OF THE COREL WTA TOUR
November 18, 1998
Anna Kournikova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  You were hitting the ball well.  But your serve, which has been going through troubles in the last couple of matches, was basically your downfall today.  What was your problem today with your serve? 
 
ANNA KOURNIKOVA:  Well, it is the end of the year; I am a little bit tired, so my serve obviously is not there right now.  I am just going to have to - I am having a break.  After this I am just going to have to go and work on it. 
 

Q.  Have you been working on the serve to try and change something with it?  Is that the reason there is a problem?
 
ANNA KOURNIKOVA:  Not really.  I just lost my rhythm a little bit.  And it is indoors, so I probably tried to serve a little bit, you know, more than I do with the serve - more than outdoors.  So probably that is why I lost my rhythm. 
 

Q.  What is the difference between Monica in March of this year and right now?
 
ANNA KOURNIKOVA:  Well, honestly I don't really, you know, think about it.  I didn't even feel anything probably.  I think that if I would serve better, it could be a different way, you know, but the match was close even with me serving not so good.  But I really try not to think about the other players.  I just try to concentrate on my game. 
 

Q.  Do you feel the rest of your game is pretty much there at the moment?
 
ANNA KOURNIKOVA:  Yes.  I hit like 30 winners or something.  I feel good.  I feel good at the net and at the baseline.  I think I am hitting the ball really well right now. 
 

Q.  The serve problem is not something which you knew you had a little while - a few weeks.  It is something where if you miss a first serve are you probably conscious of a problem?
 
ANNA KOURNIKOVA:  I don't really think that it is that serious -- the serve is just - it can go off just like any other shot.  You have a problem with the forehand, or you are not getting the backhand, it is the same shot.  So I am just going to have to go back and work on it. 
 

Q.  Do you think it is a little bit like a golfer when he suddenly can't putt?
 
ANNA KOURNIKOVA:  I don't know.  Can't compare. 
 

Q.  How much of a break will you have now before you start practicing again for next year?
 
ANNA KOURNIKOVA:  Well, I am going to have some exhibitions, so I will be practicing a little bit and then I will start to get ready for the next year. 
 

Q.  How much of an actual break will you have?
 
ANNA KOURNIKOVA:  Well, you know, enough just enough to get rested.  
 

Q.  How long will that be roughly?
 
ANNA KOURNIKOVA:  I can't say.  If I feel well I will start practicing or I am not just going to start and not practice.  I am going to do something obviously. 
 

Q.  A lot of the players feel that they need a longer break between seasons.  They are saying they come into this tournament feeling tired and it would be better if they had a longer break?
 
ANNA KOURNIKOVA:  That is true. 
 

Q.  Do you feel that?
 
ANNA KOURNIKOVA:  That is true.  I think our season is incredibly long and Australian Open starts way too early and the tournaments before so you really have to -- I have to leave from home like right after New Year's which is like the 4th or the 5th.  And so you don't get to spend a lot of time resting or at home and we just finish here and plus, you know, I will be doing some more exhibitions and that is not a lot of time. 
 

Q.  Do you find exhibitions then don't put pressure on you?
 
ANNA KOURNIKOVA:  I like them to play them because it is  -- first of all, I enjoy playing and plus there is not such a big difference and I just can go -- there is not such big pressure.  I can just go out there and play and try something new and plus I enjoy being on the court and play for the crowd. 
 

Q.  We have been reading that you have said you are tired of being the center of attention all the time.  Is that true?
 
ANNA KOURNIKOVA:  I don't recall saying that.  I don't know. 
 

Q.  Have you lined up a doubles partner next year?
 
ANNA KOURNIKOVA:  I am playing in Australia with Martina Hingis, Sydney and Melbourne.  Then I will just see what happens. We were going to try to play in the beginning of the year. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT