STATE FARM EVERT CUP
March 10, 1998
Anna Kournikova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
VERONIQUE MARCHAL:  Questions for Anna. 
 

Q.  Anna, can you discuss the match against Conchita, what you think made the difference?
 
ANNA KOURNIKOVA:  Well, I think that, you know, it was a good match.  I mean, she played very well.  She didn't make any unforced errors.  I started off well, but I didn't continue doing what I did in the beginning.  I think that was the difference.  I let her play her game.  I should have played the way I usually play. 
 

Q.  When you say you let her play her game, do you think you should have come in more, because she was hitting a lot of soft balls back to you, or trying to hit out a little bit more?
 
ANNA KOURNIKOVA:  Yeah.  I think I should have just played out the point more, come to the net; not just go straight for winners.  I probably should come in a little  bit more.  But it was very difficult because the way she plays, it's really different.  I mean, she mixes up a lot, so high and low.  It was difficult to get used to the balls. 
 

Q.  Is it tough for somebody of your age to just play and play and play, week after week?  Do you find that you get more tired than players who have been doing this for five or ten years and really know how to pace themselves through a season?
 
ANNA KOURNIKOVA:  I'm sure -- this is new for me, of course, playing this many matches.  But I'm feeling well.  I mean, I feel like I'm improving every match, that I'm learning something out of each match.  I'm looking forward to Lipton.  I have like nine days or something to prepare, to rest, to get ready for Lipton. 
 

Q.  And you're able -- that's a mature attitude to be able to say, "I got out of this tournament, I got better, learned this, learned that."  You know enough not to say, "If I don't win it, it was a bad week"?
 
ANNA KOURNIKOVA:  Of course. 
 

Q.  People don't learn that sometimes until they're in their twenties.
 
ANNA KOURNIKOVA:  You have to consider that  Conchita is in Top 10.  She's won Wimbledon and everything. I learned what I had to learn.  I played.  I'll go out and play next week. 
 

Q.  Do you have a good luck charm which you have always with you?
 
ANNA KOURNIKOVA:  I do, but I'm not going to tell you what. 
 

Q.  Anna, have you decided whether you're going to play Fed Cup?
 
ANNA KOURNIKOVA:  I don't know about it yet because my Federation never contacted me.  I haven't heard anything from them.  I don't know.  I don't even know -- I know it's in Australia.  My Federation never contacted me about it. 
 

Q.  So if you haven't heard in the next few days, will you make contact with them or will you just give it the flick?
 
ANNA KOURNIKOVA:  Well, I'm a player.  I mean, I'm playing for them.  They should ask me.  I mean, they should at least send me a letter, whatever.  I'm No. 1 player in the country.  I hear nothing.  It's a little bit hard. 
 

Q.  What happens if you haven't heard from them, when will you make a decision one way or another?
 
ANNA KOURNIKOVA:  I'm not the one who's making the decisions.  The Federation is the one who is making the decision.  If they don't invite me, I guess they don't want  me to play or something like that.  I don't know. 
 

Q.  You've told them you're prepared to play?
 
ANNA KOURNIKOVA:  I played all past times.  I played for my country.  I had no problems with that. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT