THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 29, 2008
Brett Quigley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DOUG MILNE:  We'd like to welcome Brett Quigley to the media center, even par second round, 3-under for the tournament here at the Honda Classic. 
 When we were walking up, one of the things that's very apparent is you've got a very large contingent of fans this week for obvious reasons.  Just talk about what it means to be in this area, in contention going into the weekend with such support. 
 BRETT QUIGLEY:  It's great for me because I've got so much positive energy pulling for me with my family and a bunch ever friends down.  So it's great.  I mean, it just like a home week, playing a nice round at my home course. 
 DOUG MILNE:  Three birdies, three bogeys, obviously the wind was a factor today.  Just a couple comments, I think Robert, I heard him mention whenever there's a wind that's got a northerly blow to it, it makes the course play a little difficult. 
 BRETT QUIGLEY:  I think it played harder today, too, with the wind a little different direction, too.  It was gusting and it would be a two- or three-club wind.  I hit an 8-iron I think from 193 and I hit a 4-iron from 185.  So it was a pretty good spread out there today. 
 It's going to be tough.  I mean, it's a tough golf course, so certainly anybody shooting under par has played pretty darned good. 

 Q.  Were your friends rowdy at all; in a good way, of course. 
 BRETT QUIGLEY:  Oh, yeah, I get it airborne and they start cheering.  It's great. 

 Q.  How many times have you played this course?  Do you play much when you're not -- 
 BRETT QUIGLEY:  Six in my life.  I played it for the first time last year and I played here Sunday before the tournament and didn't play -- I kind of took the you'd like a U.S. Open where I didn't want to play it too much because I'd get beaten up with the rough being so long.  I knew it was going to be tough conditions with the wind. 

 Q.  The way it's picking up out there now and the way it is forecast to be blowing this afternoon, some holes are two, three clubs different.  Do you think it could be two or three shots different between the morning and afternoon?  It was fairly calm for a while there for you guys. 
 BRETT QUIGLEY:  I think it was for about five holes for us.  We were a little bit later in the morning.  There was a big spread yesterday between morning and afternoon.  I think you'll see that until about 10:30, and then it picks up pretty good, and I think today is going to blow a little harder than it did yesterday. 

 Q.  When you have everybody in town, how is this week different than it would be if you were on the road with your family or by yourself? 
 BRETT QUIGLEY:  Probably have ten people -- we had 30 people over last night for a cook out.  Jason Caron cooked burgers and it was on the grill when I got home.  It was great.  A couple people might just go on the boat and kick around on the Intercostal.  Certainly not on the ocean.  I don't want anybody throwing up on the boat. 

 Q.  Anything particularly funny that they chant or yell to you today, your friends? 
 BRETT QUIGLEY:  Nothing that really stands out.  Like I said, it's just nice.  I mean, any time I do something that's marginally good, they are pretty excited. 

 Q.  They rib you at all? 
 BRETT QUIGLEY:  No.  It's more after the round, like, "How did you do that"? 

 Q.  Would you do this every week, if you could, play literally almost right at home with so many people around you?  Or is it almost easier sometimes when you're not surrounded by the people you care about most just in the sense of you're focused on task at hand and nothing else. 
 BRETT QUIGLEY:  I couldn't do it every week.  It's great and it's great five times a year, but I'm about an 8:30-going-to-bed kind of guy, and having people around all the time until 10:00 or whatever is just -- it would be tough for me. 

 Q.  We talked at Torrey Pines about the number that you have to make this year, and just said, "I don't even care about it."  Do you still have that same philosophy? 
 BRETT QUIGLEY:  Yes, I think even more now.  I started thinking about it when I missed the cut at L.A., you know, and I've got to make $63,000, and I had been kind of focused on that number instead of -- I mean, I've got to start playing well for '08 and start thinking about golf tournaments there, instead of just making the $63,000 or whatever I have to make.  Certainly I had to just change my focus there. 

 Q.  Kind of turned your round around today after a tough short.  Did something fall into place that took you around the turn where you got the birdie at 18 and won? 
 BRETT QUIGLEY:  I hit some good shots early and just didn't get much out of it.  This golf course, these conditions, for me, I've almost got to be more patient instead of trying, bearing down.  Some guys can bear down and that gets them going.  But for me, it's almost care less than I do.  When I get trying too hard, I start trying to force the issue, and can't do that out here. 
 Then made a nice birdie on 18 and birdied 1 and had some great chances on my back nine, which is the front. 

 Q.  It's not a major championship setup, but does it come as close to it as a regular TOUR event does? 
 BRETT QUIGLEY:  I think so.  I can't think of too many courses that we play that are more difficult than this besides the majors.  This has all the makings of it.  If the rough was a little bit longer and the greens were a little firmer, it would be as hard as any major. 

 Q.  Did it firm up at all? 
 BRETT QUIGLEY:  It's still a little soft.  I mean, the greens are, which is great, otherwise everybody would be over par. 

 Q.  Will it change much over the weekend?  Can the wind blowout and make it much drier? 
 BRETT QUIGLEY:  I don't think so.  I don't think they will let it get away.  I think the officials are -- I think they are putting a little water on the greens. 
 DOUG MILNE:  If you wouldn't mind just running us through the birdies and give us the clubs and talk about the bogeys. 
 BRETT QUIGLEY:  I bogeyed 12.  I drove it in the rough and had to wedge it out just in front.  Hit a great pitch to three feet and missed it. 
 14, I drove it right in the rough and made another great bogey. 
 16, I actually had it in the middle of the fairway and hit a 7-iron and the wind just hung it a little bit and had a pretty good line and made a good bogey to made it up-and-down to get out of the bunker, having to play 17 and 18. 
 18, 12-foot putt and made birdie and that got it started. 
 And made probably a 25-footer from behind the hole on 1 and made birdie. 
 Drove it right in front on 4 and had like 30 yards to the front of the green and made birdie.  Knocked it about two feet, and just had some good chances coming in.  So I was certainly happy the way I played the last nine holes. 

 Q.  How is the knee? 
 BRETT QUIGLEY:  What knee? (Chuckling)  Knee's hurt.  Doesn't hurt playing, doesn't hurt swinging; it hurts being on it for 5 1/2 hours like yesterday.  As soon as I got done, I got iced and I iced it again before I went to bed.  Probably 80 percent right now and getting better, but certainly doesn't hurt when I hit a golf shot, so that's great. 

 Q.  Just walking? 
 BRETT QUIGLEY:  Just walking.  That darn walking. 
 DOUG MILNE:  Best of luck this weekend.  Thanks for coming in. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT