BUICK OPEN
June 29, 2007
Brett Quigley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   STEWART MOORE:  We would like to welcome Brett Quigley to the interview room here at the Buick Open, after a great second round 69.  You're 10 under through two rounds, as it stands right now, one shot behind Kenny Perry.  This time last year you held the 36-hole lead.  Obviously you like this golf course. 
 BRETT QUIGLEY:  Yes, it suits my eye and the greens are perfect.  So you know if you get it on the green you've got a good chance to make the putt.  As a result, the last two days have been pretty nice. 
 STEWART MOORE:  Looking at your card, four birdies, one bogey.  Take us through your birdies and bogeys real quick. 
 BRETT QUIGLEY:  I don't even know what I birdied, to be honest with you.  I was playing well obviously to make the birdie on 10 to go 11-under.  And then I tried to force the issue and try to really make a bunch of birdies coming in.  I knew if I could make four or five more I might have a pretty good lead.  As a result, I started thinking about, you know, results instead of staying in my process, kind of got ahead of myself and came back to the field. 

 Q.  Were the conditions any different today, because outside of Kenny Perry and a couple of other guys, you didn't see the low scores you saw yesterday. 
 BRETT QUIGLEY:  The greens firmed up pretty good from yesterday morning.  There were a few holes the ball was actually bouncing forward, and that kind of kept the scores in check. 

 Q.  (No microphone)... mindset like?  Is it a little different when you're actually leading the tournament as opposed to chasing from a shot or two back? 
 BRETT QUIGLEY:  Yes and no.  The mindset this weekend, it doesn't matter if you're leading or not, you have to shoot probably 10 or 12 under on the weekend to have a chance, because it will probably be 20 to 22 under, with the greens this good, if they stay this soft.  Leading or not, I know I have to play well. 

 Q.  You can see what Kenny Perry is doing out there, how much did you watch the scoreboard to see the climb he was making? 
 BRETT QUIGLEY:  Yes, I saw one hole on the back nine there and then saw it on 18.  To me, that's the great thing about this golf course, if you get it going, you can shoot a 10 under.  It's that rewarding on good shots and good putts, and that's what I like about it. 

 Q.  Looking at that leaderboard as you made the turn it was like okay, he's got 12, 13, 14, that's what we're thinking, how do you stop yourself from thinking about, maybe I can get to 15 16? 
 BRETT QUIGLEY: If you find out, let me know, because that's what I did.  For me, when I do that, I start getting result oriented and that's not a good thing.  You just got to keep doing what you've been doing, and that's what I did well the first 28 holes.  And actually hit a good shot on 11 and hit a good putt there that didn't go in.  It's just golf. 
 This golf course, if you get ahead of yourself or you lose your patience, you get stuck on par and you feel like you're getting left. 

 Q.  Do you get upset or do you just say, okay, this is done with now and let's try to make birdies? 
 BRETT QUIGLEY:  No, I wasn't upset.  I was still grinding out.  I hit some good shots that didn't turn out well, and I hit some bad shots, but I knew I could still make birdies coming in on any of the holes. 

 Q.  Does it ever surprise you on this golf course when you look up and somebody is going really low, because you know it's going to happen every day, right, somebody is going to shoot an 8 or a 9? 
 BRETT QUIGLEY: When the greens are this good and they're a little bit soft, guys are going to shoot low scores because they are going to be able to get it close to the hole.  You see one or two guys every day that get streaky with the putter, certainly at this level, if a guy is getting streaky they're going to make 8 or 10 birdies and this golf course lends itself to that. 

 Q.  Even with the lead on the back nine when there were some backups, it seemed like you were staying pretty loose, joking with the other guys.  Is that your playing, regardless -- 
 BRETT QUIGLEY:  Yes, that's my personality, and the guys that I was playing with are two easy-going guys and we were laughing at each other and laughing at our caddies and telling jokes and just staying loose. 

 Q.  How uncomfortable a feeling is it when your ball is directly behind a tree like that? 
 BRETT QUIGLEY:  To me, it's no big deal.  You get good breaks, bad breaks, certainly directly behind that tree, it didn't even occur to me -- it never even occurred to me to react to it.  I don't know if that answers your question.  It is what it is. 
 STEWART MOORE:  Brett, great playing, best of luck this weekend. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT