MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 5, 2007
Brett Quigley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Reference to wife Amy. 

 BRETT QUIGLEY:  First daughter born on April 4, at 2:55 a.m. Lillian Augusta Quigley.  Seven pounds, two ounces, 19 inches. 

 Q.  Sequence of events. 

 BRETT QUIGLEY:  I was coming off the 11th green of my practice round yesterday when I checked a message on my cell phone.  My buddy said, "You have to go."  No, I'm walking to the 12.  "No", he said, "Amy is in labor and you have to go."  Lucas and Sluman (playing partners) were kind of in shock. 

 I went to Augusta Airport.  She had a brutal labor.  The baby was supposed to be born between 10 and 11, but it was tough and so at 2:30 a.m. they did a C section and she was born at 2:55 a.m. 

 She just started wailing.  They put her in a little blankie and I held her and started talking to her and she stopped crying.  She had been hearing my voice for the last eight months. 

 Q.  Description of his emotions for the last 24 hours. 

 BRETT QUIGLEY:  Exhausting and incredible.  Five or six times I was fighting back tears out there today thinking of Amy and Lilly. 

 Q.  How about naming her Augusta? 

 BRETT QUIGLEY:  Amy said we had to do it. 

 I didn't sleep at all Tuesday night.  I had had some good adrenaline going today.  I feel fine. 

 The support from players and fans, I felt like everybody knew I had a smile on my face all day. 

 Q.  What about your late tee time? 

 BRETT QUIGLEY:  They said it was the luck of the draw.  I had a picture of the two of them with me all day.  I was at such ease.  Probably wasn't as sharp.  I hate to say it, it didn't matter what I shot, but it was so peaceful. 

 I still have on the hospital bracelet.  Quigley, Amy, female, 4-4-7.  Amy really urged me to come back.  It was good I go back.  I left my dad and golf clubs here.  Amy made sure that I came back.  It was very difficult to leave them. 

 On No. 11 green I was freaking out.  There was a good chance I might not make it.  It was 1:00 or 1:15 p.m. and I got to the hospital at 5:25. 

 Tomorrow will be a great day because I will be fresh.  It is all just better than I thought with the baby and playing here.  Just seeing the baby, it is amazing the love.  You couldn't have scripted it better.  Calcavecchia already gave me a baby bib from Augusta.  I have 150 cigars coming to hand out tomorrow.  



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT