FBR OPEN
February 3, 2007
Brett Quigley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Brett, for joining us for a few minutes here in the media center at the FBR Open.  Good solid round out there, 66, no bogeys, beautiful weather, lots of fun.  Just talk about the day. 
 BRETT QUIGLEY:  I mean, it's chaos out there.  The energy is unbelievable.  I never remember it until you get on the weekend on 16.  I mean, literally you get goosebumps just being out there because it's like being in an arena, hockey or football or whatever.  It's incredible, the energy. 
 For me I started a little shaky but didn't make a bogey, which was nice.  I just feel pretty comfortable.  I look forward to tomorrow.  I played with Quinney the first two days so I know what to expect.  He's playing well, so I know I'm going to have to play well. 

 Q.  Is it a situation where -- you're not far enough back where you're going to have to start out low to get him thinking, are you? 
 BRETT QUIGLEY:  Yeah, I'm going to go fire at everything.  If he's going to be 17, four shots, that's a ton.  I mean, he certainly hasn't given any indication that he's not going to keep playing well.  I know I feel like I've got to shoot 5 or 6 to have a chance tomorrow. 

 Q.  So does a four-shot difference here, is it less of a hurdle or more than a hurdle than let's say four shots at Torrey Pines, for example? 
 BRETT QUIGLEY:  Probably less, especially with the back nine.  You can make eagle on 13, 15 and 17.  Maybe not tomorrow on 17 with a back pin, but there's certainly more birdie holes coming down the stretch, which makes it fun. 

 Q.  When you played today was your mindset, again, I've got to go as low as possible because I know -- if not Quinney, somebody else? 
 BRETT QUIGLEY:  I didn't see a leaderboard until 5 green, and I saw he was 2-under through 3 or 4, so I knew he was playing well so I needed to keep going.  2-under wouldn't be a good score.  I needed to shoot 4 or 5. 
 JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  You played great most of the year last year.  Looks like you're right back where you were last year. 
 BRETT QUIGLEY:  Yeah, I think -- it's funny, the first two weeks I think I thought I had to win and I put too much pressure on myself.  I made the cut and actually played well the first two days last week and didn't play well on the weekend.  And this week just more relaxed, trying to take the attitude I had last year.  Obviously I did play pretty good last year and just go play golf. 

 Q.  You talked about the energy out there, the crowd, the environment.  Did it create any problems for you out there today, the loud fans or anything like that?  Is it something you guys just learn to deal with? 
 BRETT QUIGLEY:  Not really.  When it's that loud or that many, it's really not a problem.  It's worse if you had one person walking on the ropes rather than 10,000.  But 16, I mean, say it's a 7-iron, you have to hit 8-iron because for me there's so much adrenaline running through me that it's at least a club less. 

 Q.  A lot of people out there, pretty -- 
 BRETT QUIGLEY:  Incredible, incredible.  16 is just unbelievable. 

 Q.  There's a lot of talk about this -- it's been a debate for years about this tournament and how it doesn't -- it's the one anomaly on Tour.  But is that something kind of refreshing to you guys in a sense? 
 BRETT QUIGLEY:  You know what you're getting into coming here.  I don't see it as a bad thing.  I mean, it's a fun week to come and play. 
 JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you for joining us. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT