THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 3, 2006
Brett Quigley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just talk a little bit about your round today.  You shot yourself back into contention for the tournament.
BRETT QUIGLEY:  It's funny, I actually drove it actually a lot better today and hit my irons horribly.  I managed to get up and down really well today.  To go around this place without a bogey is pretty strong.
Q.  With the field here being so strong, does it have the feel of a major with just a few guys under par?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Absolutely.  Starting the week I thought 2 under today would be a pretty good score.  I didn't see anyone getting to double digits.  I don't know what the wind will do the next couple days, but this golf course is so demanding.

It's just a good, fair golf course, but if you're off a little bit it's certainly going to get you.  It does feel like a major.
Q.  At the halfway mark you have to real really good.
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Under par, yes.  And if I go under par the next two days I'll be feeling pretty good.
Q.  A lot of guys are tapped out at this point in the season.  How do you keep that from happening to you?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  I play a lot of golf, and I think taking Monday off completely, and obviously missing the cut at Tampa, it possibly helped me because I didn't have to play Saturday and Sunday and then not playing Monday, so I was fresh starting Tuesday; anxious to get back playing.

I mean, I love playing.  I've been playing Monday morning with Dana and my dad at Bear Lakes, so it's not a big deal for me.
Q.  So you thought 68s would be good even when the conditions were
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Perfect.  Even with no wind or with wind, I'd make four 68s and sit down and let the guys try to get there.
Q.  What makes the par 3s here, especially 6 and 18, so memorable or special?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  There's no room for error.  The bunkers are down pretty deep.  Obviously 6 you have to hit the green or you're hitting another one.

And then 18 is 230 into the wind.  I had 4 iron out on 18 and looked again, and I said, There's no way.  I had to kill it to get to the front.  I hit a great 7 wood right over the flag.
Q.  On 6, what is the pucker factor compared to like say 17 at Sawgrass?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  I'd probably say a little more because the wind was blowing in off the left yesterday, and it was blowing in today.  With a front right pin, that was a really tough pin placement today.
Q.  Did you ever go to the back tee just for grins during a practice round?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  I didn't know the back tee was there until today.  I looked at the yardage book.  Hopefully they're not going to use it.  I couldn't imagine hitting it 230 from back there, or 220.  I mean, it's impossible.  Lay up to the drop zone and then chip it on.
Q.  Did you have a sense of what a target score would be on Thursday, given what it's like?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  I didn't think anyone would break 10 under, I really didn't, starting the week.  I mean, they've narrowed the fairways a bunch here.  Every sprinkler is five yards in the rough, and you know that used to be fairway.  They've brought it in quite a bit.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT