WGC AMERICAN EXPRESS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 30, 2006
Brett Quigley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
Wonderful round yesterday, 64 and it's not always easy to follow up on that, but a 67 today, excellent golf.
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Yeah, I played well.  It was solid all day.  Certainly pleased with the score and hopefully I'll have a chance tomorrow.
Q.  And Brett, that is the big question, how can you turn that chance into that No. 1 win?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Well, I played well today.  I missed a few short ones for birdie but still plugged on and see what I can do.  I'm playing pretty well and I'm actually putting pretty well, too.

I know it's going to be a 63 or 64 to have a chance, so that's what I'll try to do.
Q.  It's one thing that you're in this thing for the first time and it's another to play well.  How much are you enjoying the experience of this World Golf Championships?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  When I got here, obviously happy to be here, but I knew I needed to play well and just had to take that attitude that it's just okay to be here and try to treat it as a regular event for me.  The last couple of months I've been pretty consistent, and the last few days I've been playing well and as a result shot some pretty good scores.
Q.  Does it feel like a regular event?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Yes and no.  Certainly there are not as many players as you normally see each week.  But it's just once I get out there, it's just golf, and when I do, I play pretty well.
Q.  We've talked about this a couple of times, you've come close but have yet to win.  Why is that for you on the PGA TOUR?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  I have a fear of winning (laughing).

I have no idea.  It's something I thought long and hard about at the start of this year and tried to make a conscious effort to really think about winning out there, and as a result, I think I've played better and have had some chances to win.  That's been my goal starting the year and it's my goal the last three, four, five events I play this year.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT