84 LUMBER CLASSIC
September 17, 2006
Brett Quigley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TODD BUDNICK:  We thank Brett Quigley for stopping in after finishing the tournament at 11 under par.  Brett, obviously a very good tournament for you despite the slight injury there.
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Yeah, we were talking coming over, I just fell into a doorjamb on Tuesday, just walking into my house and just tripped coming up the stair.  Like I said, I knew it was going to hurt, I just didn't know when.  It came Friday and it came with a lot of pain.  I just figured I'd play four or five holes on Friday and just withdraw and just kind of chip it around, and somehow I shot a good score and kept the same philosophy all week.  It probably ended up being pretty good for me because it kind of kept me in the moment, just not worrying about golf and what was going on, trying not to hurt myself out there.
TODD BUDNICK:  This is a continuation of the great season you've had.  Talk about how great it's been for you.
BRETT QUIGLEY:  I'm getting comfortable in position.  Obviously I want to win.  I was trying my darndest coming in.  I'm just feeling better in that position on Sunday and being close to the lead and being around the lead and feeling good about my game.  I'm just feeling confident that it's going to come soon.
Q.  Did the course play much different today than the first three days?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Yes (laughing).  We played the ball down today, so it played a lot more difficult.  I think normally when we have the ball in our hand, it's probably two shots a round easier.  The course is in perfect shape, it was just a lot more difficult playing the golf ball down.
Q.  When you say you fell at home
BRETT QUIGLEY:  I literally tripped walking into my patio.  I tripped.  I was looking at the gutter, it was overflowing, it wasn't draining right and I was on the edge of the stair and there's a little lip on the edge of the stair and I didn't know it and I went to walk in and landed right up here up against the doorjamb.  It didn't bruise until Friday morning and then turned kind of like a green brown purple.  It was not a pretty sight.
Q.  Was that at home or here?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Home in Rhode Island.
Q.  Did you fiddle with your swing much out there?  Did you make any adjustment?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  I could barely hold on    it was funny, I probably shortened my swing because I couldn't get my left arm above my shoulder, and then following through once I got to shoulder height I had to let go of my left hand and I was kind of right one arming it all week and I had to apologize to guys I was playing with because I would grunt or moan on every shot because I was in that much pain, and somehow the ball just kept going straight.  Like I said, it was a little embarrassing and I felt bad that the guys had to watch that.
Q.  They do it in tennis all the time.
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Yeah, but that's a little different grunt.  I'm sure they're not in the pain that I was in.
Q.  Are you getting frustrated at all as you get closer and closer to that win?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Well, yes and no.  I mean, yeah, I want to win.  That's my number one goal.  But I just keep putting myself in position.  I've got to think one of these times I'm going to fall into it.  I'm going to do my darndest.

This week was a big week for me.  I want to stay in the Top 30 so I get in the American Express, the World Golf Championship, in two weeks, so I look forward to going to play there and maybe get one there.
Q.  What have they told you about this, it'll be a week or a couple weeks?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  It just needs to rest.  There's no bone, no structural damage, no shoulder, no rotator cuff.  It's a muscle and it wasn't torn, so it's just a good old bruise.
Q.  Taking off next week?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Yes.
TODD BUDNICK:  Thanks, Brett.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT