CANADIAN OPEN
September 8, 2006
Brett Quigley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TODD BUDNICK:  We welcome Brett Quigley after a course record tying 7 under 63 in Round 2 here at the Canadian Open.  No bogeys today.  Brett, a very nice round of golf.
BRETT QUIGLEY:  It kind of started yesterday for me.  I was 3 Over after I think 14 for the tournament.  Just got really upset with myself because I've been playing pretty well.  3 Over is not where you want to be.

Fortunately, made a couple birdies coming in.  That set the stage for today.  Birdied the 1st hole out of the gate.  Nice to start with a birdie and carry that momentum on.
TODD BUDNICK:  You're a northeastern guy.  This is a typical northeastern kind of course.  You have a lot of affinity for this.
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Oh, yeah.  I mean, it's something that, you know, like I said, I grew up on a golf course similar to this.  It's similar to a Westchester.  It's just a great old golf course that you have to play well to shoot a good score.

You know, fortunately I did that today.  But certainly I feel comfortable out here.  I know that I really look forward to coming to this week knowing that the scores aren't super low here, and if you play well, a couple under is a good score.  It's fun playing golf courses like that.
TODD BUDNICK:  We'll open it up for questions.
Q.  A lot of guys coming off the course saying they'll take 1 under, 2 under for the rest of the weekend.  You at 7 under, how do you explain what you did out there today?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  For some reason I think I have a tendency to play a little better when it's tougher conditions.  I think it's just a matter of focus for me.  Certainly if I shot 7 under the next two rounds total, I'd be very happy.  I mean, this is not a very easy golf course.  The wind is going to blow.  It's going to firm up.  It was just a matter of trying    I kept it under the hole so I had some opportunities for birdie.  When you do that out here, you can make some birdies.
Q.  Career wise you had a few years earlier in your career when you were flirting with 125 every year.  Now you've taken a step up to a much higher level.  You're flirting with winning a lot.  Talk about the progression.  Anything this year you've done that has helped you stay at this level?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  That's a good question.  I'd say physically I'm driving it better.  The stats may not show that, but I feel more comfortable standing on the tee.  Then I'd say overall my attitude has just been better.  I've been much more patient with myself.  Yesterday I started with a bogey.  Furyk was already 7 under.  I think in the past I'd have been pressing a little too hard, saying, Geez, I'm already eight shots behind and I played one hole.

You just kind of    I'm kind of figuring out that when I'm playing well, I'm pretty good.  If I'm patient with myself, the game will come out.

It's easy sitting here to talk about it.  It's another thing to do it on the golf course.  But I've just been better at it this year.
Q.  Going back to Azinger picking you to win the Open, do you feel you're viewed a little differently by the public or by anybody out here with the way you played?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  It's certainly a nice compliment.  It's funny, I think I use that more as a negative than a positive to put more pressure on myself to perform better or play well.  Certainly I'm not upset with Azinger saying that.  That's an unbelievable compliment.

I know that in the last couple weeks, I've been trying too hard.  I missed a cut by a shot at the PGA, I missed a cut by a shot at Boston.  Just thinking about the wrong things.  For me, if I think about results, I don't play well.
Q.  How the wind this morning?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Blowing pretty good, southwest, pretty steady all day.  Like I said, for some reason I just do better when I have to hit certain shots, whether it's a fade or a hook.  I just decide to do it.  Instead of having any indecision, I just hit the shot that I see.
Q.  There's some talk that the weather may take a turn for the worse tomorrow.  How important was it for you to find your way up to the leaderboard in time for the weekend when play is expected to get much tougher and the scores are expected to get a lot higher?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Well, certainly I knew    I was 3  or 4 under, I knew I could kind of get it today.  I felt good with everything.  I was trying to get close to that course record.  I know those guys broke it yesterday.  Certainly that was something I was thinking about.  Just fortunately kept making birdies.

It was important to get near it.  I saw the guys were 9 at one time.  I think Nathan Green got to 9.  I knew I needed to keep playing well to get close.
Q.  Speaking of that course record, those guys already set it yesterday.  It did belong to Tommy Armour from 1930.  Now you have a piece of that.  You edged him out of the record book.  How does that feel?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  You know, it's amazing that that record has stood that long.  That shows you how good this golf course is.  I'm sure they're disappointed.  It's a little softer this year.  When we get conditions where it's just a little soft, we're going to shoot some good scores.

But, yeah, it's special.  Somebody will probably break it this weekend, but it's certainly nice right now.  Tied a couple other great players, too.
TODD BUDNICK:  If we could just run through your birdies, Brett, starting on No. 10.
BRETT QUIGLEY:  I started on 10, birdied 10.  I think I had a 20 footer straight up the hill.
TODD BUDNICK:  14.
BRETT QUIGLEY:  14 was a nice one, probably 15 footer.  Pitching wedge.

16 was a great putt.  I was kind of upset I missed the short one on 15, about a 6 footer.  Great putt on I guess 16 down the hill.  That green was super fast.  That kind of got it going.

Birdied 17.  Got it up and down from the bunker.
TODD BUDNICK:  No. 3.
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Great 7 iron just behind the hole about five feet.

Then 2 putted 4.  Just a great drive and a great 5 iron.  It was straight downwind.

9, I hit it eight inches.  It almost went in.  Just a nice stress free round.
TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you, Brett.
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT