BUICK OPEN
August 3, 2006
Brett Quigley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DAVE SENKO:  7 under 65, maybe just talk about your day and especially your 13, 14 and 16 I guess.
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Nice stretch there.  Got it going.  It was actually just a nice group today playing with Joe and Robert.  We just all pulled each other along.

13, I drove it in the rough, laid it up and made a wedge shot from 77 yards.  So that certainly got the day started.

Then it's funny, I never really thought about shooting a low score or playing great.  Just kind of hanging around Joe.  Joe and I just kind of kept feeding off each other and that was certainly nice.
DAVE SENKO:  What did you hit on 14?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  14, I made about a 60 footer.  It might have been longer on the fly.  Hit it dead center, went in.  I was very lucky.

16, almost chipped it in for eagle.  Hit it about three inches.

I then just made a couple birdies, about a 2 footer on 1.

Bunker shot on 7 was 2 1/2 feet, and made probably a nice 12 footer on No. 8.

Like I said, it was an easy day playing with Joe and Robert.  They both played great and we kind of all carried each other.
DAVE SENKO:  I asked Joe about this.  Any problems having stoppage like that?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Not really because the course is in such good shape.  And the greens were perfect, probably the best we've all year, the fastest we've played all year and I like that.  I seem to putt well when the greens are really fast.  I like those conditions.
DAVE SENKO:  How much change in the course after the rain?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Not too much because there was so much last night and this morning and we were playing it up anyway.  So it was still wet but it really wasn't noticeable.
Q.  What hole were you on at the break and what did you do during the break?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  I was waiting for Joe to putt on No. 3, which is our 12th hole when they blew the horn and we just went in and sat and watched the Weather Channel, watched that whole mess come across the state and it came pretty fast.  We actually thought it was going to be a lot longer of a delay because it looked like there was more stuff coming.  So in that respect, I think we were all surprised we got the 45 minute call there to start at 12:15.
Q.  Did you say something about the Tigers and Red Sox?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Sure, you want to talk about that?  My Red Sox aren't looking too hot right now.  But I mean, the Tigers are unbelievable.  I think they are going to stay strong.  I hope they do.  They have played great all year, so it will be interesting to see coming down the stretch.
DAVE SENKO:  Thanks.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT