BOOZ ALLEN CLASSIC
June 24, 2006
Brett Quigley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TODD BUDNICK:  We thank Brett Quigley for stopping in.  Five strokes off the lead heading into tomorrow's final round.  Kind of a daunting, but not really.  Crazy things happen out here.  It will be a good chance for you tomorrow.
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Playing with Ben I think will be good.  Obviously he's playing great.  He hit every green today.  I don't expect him to back up.  I know I need to shoot 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, who knows what the number is, but that's the mentality I'm going to take and see if I can do it.
TODD BUDNICK:  And your play of late has been very stellar and that's a good possibility for you.
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Pretty solid.  I feel like I haven't    today I was a little off with my irons and just haven't made any putts.  If I could get a few putts early, try to get some heat on, try to get within 2 or 3 and see what happens.
TODD BUDNICK:  We'll take some questions.
Q.  Can you review for us your under par at Canoe Brook and you played CVS?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Yes.
Q.  How low did you go at both places coming in?  You made a lot of birdies, didn't you?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Canoe Brook I think I was 11 under.  CVS, Dana and I were a team, so it doesn't matter, but obviously played well at Westchester too.  I've just been playing nice.  I'd like to make a few more putts and have a chance tomorrow.
Q.  Talk a little bit about how satisfying this year is.  Early in your career you were one of the guys who was on the bubble a lot.  Your only worry this year is whether you're Top 30 or not.  That's got to be a nice problem.
BRETT QUIGLEY:  It's a very nice problem.  My game hasn't changed too much.  My confidence and attitude on the golf course has changed the most in the last few years.  I just can't believe it's taken me 10 years to figure this out.
Q.  I know you played with J.B. Holmes.  I think they measured his last drive at 365.  Have you ever seen anybody hit the ball hit that way?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  I played behind Holmes and Tuba Watson at CVS. They both drove it on the green two days in a row, and it's 345 carry.  Not in a million years would anyone consider driving it, and they both drove it on.

I heard Nick Price was playing with him.  He said after three holes he just stopped watching.  And actually Price and Clarke won.  So it just shows you    I can't remember who said it, but someone was talking earlier this year about one of the caddies at Augusta said that this game is counted not measured.  Obviously J.B. hits it a mile and is a great player.  If he can figure how to get it in the hole he's going to be unbeatable, but I like the fact that it is still counted.
Q.  (No microphone.)
BRETT QUIGLEY:  I like watching it.  I'm watching those drives.  Every time they take off you can't believe a golf ball can take off that fast on that kind of angle.  It's fun to watch.  It's amazing he does it with almost a three quarter swing with very little wrist cock and he absolutely pounds it.
Q.  Have you been in the last group before, and do you prefer to be in a situation like that where you see the guy you're playing with?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Certainly this week.  I've been in the last group a couple of times.  I think the last one was Milwaukee maybe two years with Pat Sheehan.  I've played in the last group with Phil Mickelson before.  Colonial a couple of years back.

I like playing with Ben, knowing what I have to do tomorrow.  I know I have to make a bunch of birdies, but I think it will be better for me watching him and getting a feel for how he's playing and see how he's swinging.
Q.  It could turn out to be a match play type situation tomorrow afternoon.  Is it easier playing a guy who has a comparable resume to yours as opposed to playing a Mickelson?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  It doesn't matter who I'm playing.  I know I have to make a bunch of birdies, whether it's J.B. Holmes or Tiger or Mickelson or Ben Curtis or a Q School guy, to me I know I have to play well.  It's not like I can shoot even par and have a chance.  There is not a question of if I'm going to shoot under par.  I need to shoot 5 under or better.
Q.  A couple of weeks ago in the U.S. Open preview, I'm sure you've heard about it, Azinger picked you as a pick for the Open.  Obviously it's a compliment because you're playing well.  You said it's taken 10 years to figure out.  What have you figured out?  How many comments do you get about Azinger's pick?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  I heard about it.  That's a great compliment.  I actually played good at the Open.  I had a bad hole finishing up there.  I finished bogey, triple to shoot 80 the first day and kind of shoot myself out of it.

Saying it's taken me 10 years to figure it out, I guess it was relaxing on the golf course for me.  Going like I'm playing with Dana or just going and having fun, because my game is a lot of birdies or bogeys.

I think I try to be too perfect in golf.  And out here, you get on Tour, you play against guys you grew up watching, Greg Norman, Fred Couples, Davis Love, all those guys and you make a bogey and think, gosh, you can't make a bogey on Tour, you have got to play perfect.  You can't do it and have a chance.

Well, in reality I can make a bogey, I can make five bogeys and still shoot under par.  I just have to make a bunch of birdies and let myself doing it.
Q.  (No microphone.)
BRETT QUIGLEY:  10 years.  It's certainly a lot easier sitting up here talking about it, but it's certainly something I've done well in the last couple of years and certainly this year.
Q.  Two quick questions.  The conditions again today, optimal for scoring?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  The greens are perfect, the greens are fast and we're playing it up.  They're scared we're going to get a bunch of rain and the course will be unplayable.  We have to play it up so we can finish the round in case we do get the rain.  When we play it up, it's almost two shots easier because then we have perfect lies every time in the fairway.
Q.  The other question:  They're going to start early again tomorrow more than.  Is that something good for you, bad for you?  Do you like it?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  I like it.  I'm an early morning guy anyway.  I like it.  I like playing threesomes.  I don't see any downside to it.
Q.  Given that the conditions are still strong and you're playing the lies in the fairway, are you a little surprised that more guys didn't make a move kind of out of the pack today.  Everybody is still in that 10 to 11 under range.
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Yes and no.  Obviously there were some low scores from    a couple of guys shot 7 under.  I think the guys that were closer, they probably put a little too much heat on themselves to shoot a good score, and the guys that were so far back don't care and they can shoot the low scores.  Surprised?  Not really.  It's just golf.
Q.  This is a good course for a charge, though, isn't it
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Absolutely.
Q.     given the 62s out there?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  With the greens being as pure as they are, if anyone gets on a roll with a putter, you can literally birdie every hole out here.  They are that good.  It's soft so the ball is not rolling far on the fairways, so it's a lot easier to hit the fairways.
Q.  Any genius tidbit of information or experience you picked up from the dual with Vijay a couple of weeks ago at Barclay's that you might use tomorrow?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  I didn't back off.  I stayed on lead or tied for lead the whole back nine with Vijay, and a couple of guys had fallen off.  I hit a good shot on 18.  I knew I needed to make eagle to have a chance.  I felt good about my game coming down the stretch.
TODD BUDNICK:  Let's go through your birdies.  No. 2, par 5.
BRETT QUIGLEY:  I laid it up and hit a sand wedge 10 feet left of the hole there and made it, obviously.

5, another 10 footer, got a perfect read off John Hueston's putt.  He putted before me and made it straight in.

6, I actually laid up.  I didn't want to.  I was talked into laying up.  I knocked a sand wedge 5 feet there and made birdie.

10, pulled a pitching wedge and made a great putt, about a 25 footer up the hill.

Bogey, I hit a great shot.  Laid it up perfect on 14.  Hit just a perfect 60 degree wedge and one hop in the back rough and chipped it 3 feet and missed it.  I thought that ball had a chance to go in and I made bogey.

I came back with a birdie on the next hole, knocked a pitching wedge about 6 inches.
Q.  Given the situation, is there almost less pressure on you than there is on Ben, in the sense you can go out there playing with nothing to lose?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  I would say yes or no.  There's still heat on me.  I want to win.  And that's the bottom line.  He's got a big lead.  I don't know, I think he'll try to start off, if I were him, trying to make birdies, but who knows how it goes out there.  It's a good question.  I don't know who has got more heat on them.  Maybe he does to get a second win.  I'll let you know tomorrow afternoon.
TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you, Brett, and good luck.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT