BARCLAYS CLASSIC
June 11, 2006
Brett Quigley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








NELSON SILVERIO:  Thanks for coming into the interview room for a few minutes.  Take us through a great round.
BRETT QUIGLEY:  It was just a tough day.  You want to get off to a good start and I three putted the first hole after hitting a good shot and kind of was pretty determined not to let it bother me.  I think I did a pretty good job of it and had a chance playing 18 if I make eagle there to give Vijay something to think about.

I hit a good second shot.  The wind I thought was down off the right and it kind of stayed right and didn't catch a good line and hit a bad chip.  Overall just happy with the week.
Q.  Can you just take us through the week just starting from Monday, and what happened for you this week?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  I mean, it's something that ten years on Tour I'm still learning how to be patient with myself and confident.  I never knew I was this slow of a learner.  I'm finally figuring out when I'm playing well, I've got a chance.  I think I proved that to myself this week starting with Monday, and then today    yesterday and today, I just hit the ball really well.  Normally my strength is my putting, and not that it let me down, I just didn't make any putts.  I made a nice putt on 17, but I had some chances and I'm happy with that.
Q.  Is this as confident as you've ever gone into a major then?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Absolutely, absolutely.  I mean, I look forward to it.  I don't know how it'll work out, but I'm playing as well as I can play, and I'm just having fun with it.  When I'm doing that, it's pretty easy.
Q.  How much does peace of mind make preparation for next week easier?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  For me it's everything.  I probably won't even play tomorrow.  There's no panic, no urgency.  I feel like when I'm playing well, I just don't care.  I know it sounds funny, but I don't care whether I make bogey or birdie or whatever, I'm just having fun, whether it's with the guys I'm playing with or my caddie, I'm just enjoying it.  I've got a pretty good job.
Q.  Just what do you think about next week?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  If I get the drives in the fairway, I've got a chance.  I mean, I don't know what I finished as far as    I think that Herb from XM just said I finished, led in greens hit.  I'm controlling my irons well and that's what you have to do at the Open, get it in play and attack from there, and have fun on the greens.
NELSON SILVERIO:  Thanks, Brett.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT