BARCLAYS CLASSIC
June 9, 2006
Brett Quigley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CHRIS REIMER:  Brett Quigley here at 5 under par, nine birdies today, up and down day out there, a good number of birdies and then a couple bogeys.  Talk about your round.
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Pretty easy.  I think I only made one putt over about eight feet and just two sloppy holes on 9 and 18.  Certainly when you make nine birdies, it's hard to be upset with that round.
CHRIS REIMER:  Good week for you so far, started off with Monday, good day for you qualifying for the Open.
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Yeah, just knew I had to play well.  I knew it was going to be a tough day, and fortunately kind of made some birdies.  I think I made 14 birdies there, so in one day that's pretty nice.  Just been pretty easy, pretty easy on myself and pretty confident the last week.
CHRIS REIMER:  That type of day, does that give you momentum coming into this tournament?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Yeah, because when you start making birdies and start making putts then definitely you can accept the bogeys a little better because you know you're going to make a few.  I'm comfortable with the putter and confident with pretty much everything right now.
Q.  Did you play Memorial last week?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  I did.
Q.  Did you fly Sunday night?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Sunday night.  I got into Newark about 7:00, I think and then back to the place about 8:30 or 9:00.
Q.  What time did you get up on Monday morning?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  I was up at 7:45, so it was an early morning.
Q.  Those type of long days, long weeks are obviously easier today when you're playing well I would imagine?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Definitely, and actually not playing the course in a couple years there, it really helped me focus because I obviously didn't play a practice round, but it kept me in the moment.  I knew I had to make a bunch of birdies, and fortunately I did.
CHRIS REIMER:  Do you feel it's easy to keep it going or at some point do you feel you might get a little tired?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  I've been tired for three weeks (laughing).  It's funny because I wasn't going to play Memphis and I was close to getting in Memorial, and I called on Monday morning to the Tour and asked her about my status for Memorial, and it turned out I was in by one.  Looked like I was going to get bumped out.  She said, by the way, you have a 7:30 Pro Am time at Memphis.  My wife Amy had said I think you're committed to Memphis.  I said, no, I'm not going.  Sure enough, Monday we found out that I was.  I got on a plane on Tuesday and went over there and played.  I didn't think I'd get in Memorial and got in Memorial as an alternate and figured I was playing well so went over there Tuesday.

When I'm playing well, I just have fun.  I think it just kind of takes my edge off where I'm not trying too hard if I'm a little bit tired or just a little bit out of it.
Q.  Overall just characterize your year.
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Much better since Hilton Head.  Hilton Head was kind of the turning point.  I mean, there's definitely    Brad Faxon rents a house at Hilton Head, and I stay with him and he's good friends with one of the tennis pros, Billy Stern, at Hilton Head.  I actually got a golf lesson from a tennis pro, just talking about theory and how tennis and golf are similar, just talking about Billy Sterns for a couple days just got my focused on golf.
Q.  Anything in particular he said?  Was that mechanical or
BRETT QUIGLEY:  No, it was just mental, just talking about how you have to have focus on every shot and just totally forget shots and totally let it go, and same thing in tennis.  Those guys are ripping forehands, ripping backhands.  They're not worried about the shot three hits ago.  If they are, they're not going to be there.

That's maybe a little easier in tennis because you don't have a lot of time to think about it, just looking and reacting.  Golf you've gotten minutes between each shot or a lot of time to think about it.  I think I've done a better job of letting it go and being focused when it's time to go.
Q.  Do you have an instructor, a golf instructor that you work with?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Todd Anderson.
Q.  Was he offended at all that
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Not at all.  It's just a different way to say the same thing ten times.  A lot of times you just need to hear it from an outside source or fresh perspective.
Q.  When was the last time    what's your status been like the past few years?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  I've probably finished between 70 and 85 the last three or four years on the Money List, kind of just chipping away at it.
Q.  Just the follow up to that, it's very early, but to have a good week here and just to have a chance to win I would imagine
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Well, it's funny, starting today, I figured I needed to shoot 5 under to get back in the mix.  Kind of a tough way to do it, but I shot 5 under.  Yeah, I'm thinking about winning.  It's the ultimate goal.  I mean, whether it happens this week, next week or never, I don't know.  I'm going to keep trying, though.
CHRIS REIMER:  You had five birdies in a row I believe on the front nine.  What was going right at that point?  Go through those holes a little bit.
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Yeah, it's funny, in the past I probably would have been    I had it going well the back nine and made 7 on 18, which is a birdie hole.  It's a pitiful 7, and I was pretty determined not to let it bother me.  I think earlier this year it definitely would have bothered me.  Anyway, I made about a three footer on 3 to kind of get it going, and then six footer on 4, five footer on 5, and then 6 you made a good putt on the hill, a 35 footer, and a three footer on 7, and on 8 I had a chance but left it short.  And I hit a terrible drive on 9 in the right rough.  It's U.S. Open rough.
Q.  How were things prior to Hilton Head as far as how were you playing?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  I was gripping the steering wheel like this.  I've been out here ten years on Tour, it's time to do something.  For me, when I try to do something, I've got no chance.  Expectations get too high and I put way too much pressure on myself, and I just don't let it go.
Q.  On No. 7 did you have to go back up over the trees?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  I hit a little hook around it.  Actually with that new tee it's a really tough hole.  I thought I hit it far enough and I had to hit a little hook up the hill which actually worked to my advantage on that back pin.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT