SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 22, 2005
Brett Quigley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Current leader in the clubhouse Brett Quigley, thanks for joining us, two great days for you, 67 and 67.  A couple players still on the course, but regardless you're going to be in great position heading into the weekend.  Start with some opening comments.
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Yesterday I played flawless and today was pretty ugly but managed it well today.  I putted well the last two days and I'm just happy.  It sounds pretty easy, and certainly when I've got a good attitude, it is pretty easy.
Q.  Is that a sign for you that you're headed in the right direction when you play not as well and still shoot 67?  That's kind of what it takes to win out here.
BRETT QUIGLEY:  The goal is making putts at the right time, and I certainly did that today.  I've played well all year this year, certainly in the first two rounds, I've struggled a little on the weekends.  Hopefully I'll have something to build on going into this weekend.
Q.  If you could talk about the course.  Obviously it's setting up for the longer hitters, John Daly, Vijay, yourself, Gavin Coles in there, one of the shorter players on Tour.  Talk about how the golf course is playing.
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Everyone talks about the length, but you've got to drive it in the fairway here.  Maybe if you're Vijay-long it doesn't matter, but the rough is so deep, I think you really need to hit it in the fairway and the fairways are firm, so a guy like Gavin can get it rolling out there.  I just think it's a good golf course showing that a long hitter and a short hitter can compete on an equal field.
Q.  You said you managed well today.  Anything in particular?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  My emotions, I guess.  It's funny, we had two kind of instances with cell phones out there, but I was just in a good frame of mind and I didn't let anything bother me.  I made two bogeys but just putted well.  I didn't drive it particularly well and didn't hit it particularly well, but you make putts at the right time and that's all the difference in the world.  It kind of carries your momentum, and certainly I did that well today.
Q.  You've been very close a couple of times to winning.  What would it mean to win here?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  What would it mean?  It's the ultimate goal.  I mean, I don't know what else I can say.  That's it.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  If we could go through your round.  You started on the back side, No. 10, with a birdie, first hole, par 4.
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Seems like it was two days ago.  Yeah, I guess ten feet behind the hole, just a driver and a gap wedge, just a nice putt, nice start there.  Probably the key to the round was the 2nd hole, made a 20-footer for par.  Missed the green right and hit a bad chip past the hole and I made the putt.  That kept the momentum.  The next hole I chipped it three feet and just was pretty solid.

I three-putted 14 from behind the hole about 40 feet, and I birdied 15, made a nice putt on 15, probably 25-footer for birdie.

17, another great putt, just 15-footer straight up the hill.

Then 18, I drove it in the right rough and hit it over the green and hit a terrible chip, made bogey.

Drove it in the rough on 1, laid up perfect and made about a ten-footer for birdie.

Eight-footer for birdie on 4 behind the hole, 3-wood and a wedge.

Then 9, probably hit the two best shots of the week, driver and 2-iron just on the back fringe and two-putted, hit a pretty good putt, probably 40 feet.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Any other good par saves out there.
BRETT QUIGLEY:  All of them (laughter).  There were a few probably.  I made all of my short putts.  I just feel confident with the putter.  Brad Faxon spent some time with me on the putting green yesterday.  We probably spent three hours on the putting green, and it paid off today.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  If you don't mind, anything in particular that really stuck with you there.
BRETT QUIGLEY:  It's funny, he asked me for help.  I said he's got no chance if he's asking me.  Just talking about philosophy.  It's not really -- he's been struggling, he said, so I was just trying to help him and talk him through what I think he does, and in doing so, it helped me, watching his stroke.  Just watching his speed and just his -- everything that he does is just I think perfect.  It's just bizarre to hear a guy that does everything -- does that so well to feel like he's struggling when it looks so good.  That tells you what a terrible game this is.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Brett Quigley, thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT