SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 14, 2005
Brett Quigley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TODD BUDNICK:  Thanks for stopping in after a 3-under 67 today, 7-under through two rounds.  You got off to a bogey start, but bounced right back with three birdies and an eagle on your front.
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Made it look easy.  Actually, it was good to make a bogey and get it out of the way.  It's funny, I really wasn't nervous today at all.  It was just a good day, a patient day.  Had a nice stretch there in the middle, and maybe got a little ahead of myself the back nine thinking about shooting a real low score and made a bunch of pars.
TODD BUDNICK:  It seemed like a lot of guys have had trouble on the back nine, not as much scoring ability there today.
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Most of the holes are kind of across the wind.  So you're shooting one way or the other and trying to shape the ball in the fairway, and it's pretty tough getting it in the fairway out here and the rough is tough.  It's a tough combination.
TODD BUDNICK:  One back of the leader through 36 holes, first event of the year, you have to be happy with the start.
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Sure, couldn't ask for a nicer start.  It was nice seeing Maruyama playing well early, almost taking the pressure off me.  I thought he was 9-under before I teed off, so I knew it was out there to be had.  So I knew I had to play well.  It was a good mindset to be in.
TODD BUDNICK:  We'll take some questions.
Q.  How many greens did you hit on the back nine?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Did I hit any?  (Laughter.)

You know, it's funny, I made eagle on 9, and I hit a great drive on 10, but it just hung up right before the bunker.  That just changed the whole -- I guess the whole demeanor of the back nine for me.  I didn't hit a good chip shot.  Missed the green and had to struggle to make par.  Missed the green the next hole and just kind of was out of sorts from there, just never felt like I could get it going.  Again missed a short birdie putt on 15 from about four or five feet, and bogeyed 16.  A good up-and-down on 17, struggled on 18, drove it in the rough.  It's just so hard.  The rough is six inches, it goes right to the bottom.
Q.  You didn't have too many putts then, right, on the back?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Not too many.  I have no idea how many greens I hit on the back.  It was not pretty.  I hit 12, 14, 15, and putted on 18, but I can't really count that as a green hit.  It was a horrible wedge shot.
Q.  Were you getting as much roll in the fairway today?  You're known as a guy who can be pretty long if you get the ball rolling.
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Actually they are still pretty soft.  I think they had a pretty good burst this morning, so that softened it up a little more.  They are not firm like they normally are yet.  Hopefully two more days in the wind and it will really get running.
Q.  How much do you think that affects your ability?  I mean, do we make too much of length?  We talk constantly about it being a power game.
BRETT QUIGLEY:  It's yes and no.  You look at the guys that are playing great, Ernie, Vijay, Phil, any of the top guys, a lot of the guys hit it a long way, but the hole is still, what, four and a quarter or whatever; four and small.  Even if you played 6,000 yards, you've still got to putt it in the hole.

To me, the long putter is more of an issue than length.  Certainly the guys that are playing well hit it a long way.
Q.  Does this course fit your game very well?  It's tight, isn't it?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Yeah, it is, but I think I had a fourth here in '98 maybe.  So I've had a good -- I've had good memories or I have good memories here.  And it's pretty similar to the conditions in Florida with the bermudagrass and the wind blowing.

So I hate to say Dana got me ready, but I think he did, for at least this week.  Just don't print that; I don't want to give him any credit.  (Laughter.)
Q.  You played every day for a month basically?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Yeah, probably more than that.
Q.  From mid-December?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Yeah, from beginning of December until right before I left.  We played the Saturday before I left.
Q.  He's been doing that for a while; was that your first real OD?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Yes.  I normally would take three or four weeks off and just totally get way from it and start more practice.  I was telling everybody here yesterday, it was about two hours of practice in a month and that was it.  I mean, just playing every day.

And it helps because you have to get up and hit shots.  Dana always says -- he's funny.  We go play and there's kids hitting balls on the range, and we get done there, kids are still hitting balls on the range.  And he says, "Those kids are not learning how to hit shots."  It's one thing the wind is blowing,  you have to hit the shot, you have to hit a hook, high cut, a fade. I think there's a blend there.  I'm not as hard core as he is about playing.
TODD BUDNICK:  Let's go through your card.
BRETT QUIGLEY:  1, left rough, no chance.  Laid it up in the bunker.  Great way to start the day.  (Laughs). Hit a nice bunker shot out 20 feet and 2-putted.

3, hit a driver and 6-iron, 3-putt.  That hole used to be a 3-wood and a wedge.  Driver, and a 6-iron about 15 feet right, 20 feet right and made a nice putt there.

6, drove it in the rough again.  Hit a nice 8-iron just under the hole and made a nice putt there, 30-footer.

8, hit it in the left rough and really didn't have much.  Chipped it into the green-side bunker and just hit a perfect bunker shot.  As soon as I hit it, I knew it was in.  Before it even landed I said, "that's got a chance," and the thing just landed and rolled in like it should.
TODD BUDNICK:  How far was it?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  The bunker shot, probably 15 yards probably, so 45 feet.

Then just a great drive and great 7-iron on 9.  Pretty simple putt, 3-footer.

16, thought I hit a good drive.  Just drove it through the fairway in the rough, again.  Missed the green short right, chipped it eight feet and missed it.
TODD BUDNICK:  Thanks, Brett.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT