SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 13, 2005
Brett Quigley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Brett Quigley, currently the co-leader with Stewart Cink at 4-under par at Sony Open in Hawaii, your first round.

How good is a 66 when the scoring average is somewhere around 72; pretty good for you?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Yeah, par is probably 72 today.  Just felt good.  I actually was looking forward to the wind because I knew I wouldn't be trying to hit perfect golf shots.  I'd just be trying to shape it with the wind ask it turned out pretty well.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  We'll go right into questions.
Q.  When did you decide to come?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  I committed but I didn't buy a ticket until Wednesday of last week to come over here.  Physically I was ready.  I didn't know if I would be ready mentally, because I literally played every day.
Q.  Because of him?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Yeah, because of him, my dad and his son, Dana's son, we played every day all day.  I would only play 18 holes and they would play at least 36.  I would play in the morning, and I'd go home but they literally kept going around.

It really is amazing that he can play that much golf.  And it turned out to be a blessing for me because I'm ready to play in some pretty bad conditions.
Q.  How many days are you talking about, this kind of ordeal?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  How many?  Every day since probably December 5.  So at least a month.  Actually more than that, because we were in Puerto Rico the week before and we played every day there.  Pretty much since I got back from Korea, which was over Thanksgiving.  I mean, every day, all day.

For me, it actually turned out to be probably a blessing because I have a tendency to try to be too perfect, hit a lot of golf balls and practice a lot, and I literally didn't hit more than two hour's worth of balls the whole time, just played.  We got to the tee at 7:15, we hit six balls and off we went.
Q.  You said something about you didn't know if your head was ready, but you knew you were ready physically.  Why were you waiting on the head?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  I might always be waiting on the head.  (Laughing).

Just because I felt like, I mean, I just didn't feel like I had any off time, because literally we played the whole time.  And for me, in the past, I've always needed three weeks to kind of recharge the battery and just get away from it and come back fresh.  Probably not practicing helped, where I played all morning and then we goofed around in the afternoon and did whatever, anything away from golf.  So I wasn't thinking about it all the time.
Q.  What finally made you decide to come?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  I think Dana finally wore me down.  Every day I would tell him, "I'm not going, I'm not going."  And he would just be dying and then I was telling him I would skip the whole West Coast and he just couldn't believe it.

I was ready physically and I just decided I'm going to go and go see what I can do.
Q.  How is the course playing right now?  Has it dried out a little bit?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Unbelievable since Monday how drier it is and how much faster the greens are.  It's got to be three or four feet faster than they were Monday day.  It's tough.  Any putt downhill, downwind you've got to really be careful.

I don't know if you have ShotLink info yet but on 14, I think I had about 25, 27 feet and I had like 25 feet coming back and I hit a good putt, ball just kept going like this (rolling).  You've just got to laugh.  Either that, or cry.
Q.  Did you have an indication that you could get off to a start like this coming over?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  It's funny, I started on 10.  I drove it right, basically right on the fringe and I didn't make birdie.  I was determined not to let that kind of affect me because I knew there would not be many birdie holes today, and I thought it was a good break starting on 10 because I knew the front nine would play really hard in the morning.  I'm sure a lot of guys could not even reach No. 1, that's a tough hole.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  You cracked the Top-100 on the Money List and came close to winning in Milwaukee.  Talk about your goals for 2005.  You have 48 tournaments ahead of you, not that you're going to play them all, like your uncle would, but talk about your hopes for 2005.  You've come close to winning a couple of times.  Might be the next step for you.
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Obviously, I think when you -- I would obviously like to win.  You know, whether or not it happens, who knows, but I'd like to keep having chances.  I tied second; I played well there that last day at Milwaukee and had some glimpses.  I think I've held myself back, so, hopefully this year, I can kind of get over that hump and just let it go and go play.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Let's touch on your round.  Walking in here you mentioned you only had two bogeys with 3-putts, but you had six birdies along with that, starting on No. 12, the par 4.
BRETT QUIGLEY:  12, good drive and a 9-iron about ten feet I guess, just a nice putt up the hill.

Then 3-putted 14.

16, good drive there and 8-iron about 12 feet left of the hole and made that.

18, I hit a driver for my second shot, chipped about six feet past and made that putt there.

1 was a big hole.  1 is a par 5.  They can call it a par 4 but it's a par 5.  Hit a great drive and hit a 4-iron long right and chipped it in.  So that was stealing two there for sure.  I don't know what the field average is on that hole but I'm sure it's well over par.
Q.  How far did you chip?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Probably 60 feet.
Q.  A gimmee?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  As soon as I hit it, it came out perfect.  My caddie said, "Yeah, it's got a chance."
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  When was the last time you hit 4-iron on a par 4?.
BRETT QUIGLEY:  It's been a while.  Like I said, it's a nice par 5.  (Laughter.)
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  No. 5, birdie, par 4.
BRETT QUIGLEY:  5 was a tough second shot with the wind there, I had a 40-footer and 3-putted from 20 feet from the next hole.  Giveth and taketh away pretty darned quick.

9, I hit a great drive.  I hit a wedge into 9 and had it on the front.  Got way too aggressive, knocked it about eight feet by and forced it coming back.  Certainly makes the day a lot better two, putt for birdie on the last hole.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Brett, thank you very much.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT