84 LUMBER CLASSIC OF PENNSYLVANIA
September 20, 2003
Brett Quigley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 BRETT QUIGLEY:  5, the par  5, I hit a pitching wedge about five feet.  Just made a nice putt there. 

7, hit a great 8-iron about three feet right under the hole there. 

10 was a good putt.  I had about a 35-footer straight up the hill and that's about the only putt I made today.  That was a nice one, though, to kind of keep it going. 

I 2-putted 17.  Hit a driver and a 6-iron to 17.  It was a pretty easy 67. 

I played well.  I've been playing well certainly last week, but the last two days, three days, whatever it was, not quite as good today, but still certainly happy with the 67. 


Q.  Inaudible?

BRETT QUIGLEY:   Yeah, when we play with ball in hand, you lift, clean and place, it's a big advantage.  I think it's almost two shots.  You know you're never going to get a divot and you're always going to have a good lie.  The only bad thing about today was the greens were pretty soft.

Overall the course was great, considering all the rain that they had.  It was surprisingly dry.  There was no standing water anywhere.  We never had to take relief from casual.  That was pretty impressive.  The course was in perfect shape. 


Q.  Inaudible?

BRETT QUIGLEY:   It was three inches behind the hole.  We couldn't really see it was kind of over a shelf. 


Q.  Inaudible?

BRETT QUIGLEY:   No.  We were one up again.  It was pretty cold and windy this morning. 


Q.  Inaudible?

BRETT QUIGLEY:   I went to Uniontown and saw two movies, Cold Creek Manor and Secondhand Lions.  The second one was much better than the first one.  The first one was so bad we decided to try another one. 

It's a tough day just sitting around, especially that first tee time, I was here 5:30.  We didn't get the word till about 6:40 what was going on and then just kind of waited around.  It's tough to kind of keep your mind occupied and not think about golf.  You want to be ready to go, but the whole time you're thinking there's no way you're going to be able to play. 

It was nice to come out here.  I wanted to play a good round today, after having that day off, and fortunately I did. 


Q.  What do you think will be a winning score?

BRETT QUIGLEY:  I'd say 20 is a pretty good score.  If we keep playing lift, clean and place, definitely 20.  If not, I could see 16.  Thing about it is, when we have it in our hand in a good lie, it's a lot easier to get into the right shelves on these greens, because these greens are so severe.  But they are good. 

It's hard to tell what these guy are going to do.  If I had to guess, yes, but it wouldn't surprise me, no. 


Q.  Inaudible?

BRETT QUIGLEY:   That's surprising.  I guess they want to get everybody around just in case they want to get more bad weather.  Probably just depends how it drains today.  I'd like to see them play it down. 

I played at 12:00 the other day, a lot of wind and rain.  I like that.  I grew up in Rhode Island, that's what we're used to.  It's been a funny year I think we've had 23 rain delays this year.  I enjoy playing in bad weather, just because I've been around it a bunch, growing up in Rhode Island.  It seemed like the whole spring was like that day we had on Thursday.  And it's the same here.  We only had about six weekends of sun some summer in Rhode Island, if that. 


Q.  Inaudible?

BRETT QUIGLEY:   I never saw it land, it was that dark.  But the three of us said, what the heck, let's just go and get it going.  They were teeing off on 10, so we figured might as well keep it going. 

I had a good pairing, too, the last two days.  Just think about that first tee, Pat Bates and Guy Boros, a good guy.  It's certainly an easy two days when you're playing with good friends.  I think Pat and I kind of fed off each other.  Today he struggled but he still played well.  I think he's still 5- or 7-under for the tournament. 




End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT