CANON GREATER HARTFORD OPEN
June 20, 2002
Brett Quigley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JOHN BUSH:  Brett, we'd like to thank you for coming by.  Before we get started, we'll get to the important stuff though.  As a fellow USC grad, who's going to win that game tomorrow?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  South Carolina has got their hands full.  I mean, to beat Clemson twice in three days is tough, but I'll be anxiously watching that one.
JOHN BUSH:  Can we get some general comments on your round?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  That was nice.  I started off well.  I birdied 1, I think I birdied 3 and 4 and 6 so, I mean, any time you're 4 up after 6, you feel like you've got pretty good control and just had a good day.  I played with Charles Howell and David Peoples, two good guys, and we just had fun out there and as a result I played well.
JOHN BUSH:   Can you take us through your birdies?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  I don't remember.  1, I hit a driver and a wedge 10 feet and played it.  The golf course  -- obviously, the greens are good and they had some pretty tough pin placements.  You feel like some of the hole, you can't go at them and that was one of them.
3, hit a pitching wedge five feet and made it.
4, hit a good drive and an 8 iron about 15 feet.
And then 6, I hit a good driver and another driver, I had driver-driver and 2-putted for a birdie.

Q.  How far?
JOHN BUSH:   How far was that putt?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  The first one was about 40 feet and I putted up about a foot.  Then, 11, I had about 20 feet behind the hole, just made a nice putt there. 
JOHN BUSH:  What did you hit in?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  9-iron.  And then 13, I hit a driver and a 2-iron just over the green about 50 feet and 2-putted, knocked it about 6 feet, but made it coming back. 
JOHN BUSH:   Bogey on 16.
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Then the adventure started.  I was between a 7- and 8-iron and hit an 8-iron.  It ended up being 6 feet short and just missed the putt. 
And 17 was good.  I hit a tee shot in the middle of the fairway and it was in the divot.  And I thought I was either going to hit it in the grandstand or put it in the water, and fortunately  --
JOHN BUSH:   That was what club?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  9-iron.
JOHN BUSH:   Okay, questions?
Q.  What was your lie at the 18th hole?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  18, I was kind of one foot in, one foot out, of the bunker there.  I didn't hit a good tee shot.  You hope it either rolls out of the bunker or rolls in.  There was a big clump behind the ball, and I didn't have a good shot.  I was afraid of hitting it too far left where Charles had hit it, and I came out of it and fortunately hit a good bunker shot to about a foot.

Q.  Can you talk about the last couple months and the fact that you're here now?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  My frustration? (Smile)  It's been a hard year for me.  I think I've tried too hard this year.  I've come out feeling like I should be able to take it to the next level, and hopefully, contend to win a golf tournament, and as a result, I think I've tried too hard, and certainly the last few months it's been pretty frustrating.

Q.  Having said that, what part of your game seems to be challenged more by this course?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  My brain (laughter.)  No.  I don't know.  This golf course, you have to drive it well, and I actually think chipping and putting around these greens is tough because there's a lot of greens with some run-off areas where if you're not careful, you can really get bitten by it.  I think 15 is a good hole, a good example of it.  You can drive it, but if you lay it up, it's a tough shot to where that green is elevated, so I'd probably say chipping and putting.

Q.  So you think you have the most satisfaction for -- 
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Certainly.  I didn't birdie every hole, so I had plenty left out there.  But I was in a good day and a good mind frame, and for me that's the biggest thing because I hit a lot of wayward shots and not to get upset with it, then I do well.

Q.  Has everything just been a little off or --
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Everything.  I mean, it's been -- if I play well, I putt poorly, and if I'm playing poorly, I putt well.  And I feel like it's been close for at least a month now, and it's tough not to get caught up in the results.  And today I certainly was not worried about the final score, I was just playing and trying to have fun out there.  It certainly -- it seems like when I've played well, I've played with guys I'm friends with and like, and certainly that was the case today.

Q.  Did you have a good following out there today?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Yeah.  I mean, there's great crowds here.  I love it.  They're so vocal, and I had a few friends here and hopefully have a few more tomorrow and over the weekend.

Q.  Is this your warm-up for --
BRETT QUIGLEY:  I told Dana, who finished 2nd last week, he always does this to me.  He peaks before the tournament and kills me.  But hopefully, he and I will have a fun week Monday and Tuesday. 

Q.  So what are you going to tell him when you call him tonight?
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Tell him I'm just warming up my birdies, make as many as I can.

Q.  Brett, you were DQ'd in Orlando or Bay Hill.
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Bay Hill.

Q.  What was --
BRETT QUIGLEY:  I don't know where to start on that one.  Dan Forsman's caddie touched my ball while the ball was still moving.  I thought it was a no-drop, meaning I drop again.  I proceeded improperly.  I should have dropped it where I had stopped the ball twice, and it was on a big slope and it was rolling into a bunker.  Long story short, I should have called for an official.  It was my fault that I didn't call an official, and I got disqualified for taking improper drop.  I played from the wrong position.  And then unfortunately, the next day Dan Forsman got disqualified because his caddie had interfered with my ball.  His caddie was trying to help out my caddie, and it's just -- the rules of golf are a great thing (laughter).
JOHN BUSH:   Anything else?  Okay, Brett.  Great start.  Thanks for coming back.
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Thank you. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT