BUICK OPEN
August 10, 2001
Brett Quigley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BRETT QUIGLEY:  I don't know where to start.  I guess I am going to make a lot of birdies and I make a lot of bogeys.  Obviously got off to a good start but then I felt like I was watching Bob all day out there.  He played so great.  I was kind of along for the ride the front nine.  I think I shot 32.  It felt like I shot about 38 because he shot 30.  Never really missed a shot.  It was nice pairing with Brian and Bob because it was just so easy.  We are all kind of the same temperament.  When the guys start making putts everybody kind of followed.  I think we birdied a bunch of holes between us.  
 
Q.  Bob had said that they had asked earlier that once the group gets on a roll everybody kind of goes with it.  Is that the feeling?
 
BRETT QUIGLEY: Definitely because you are not  -- because if a guy is playing well you are not seeing any bad shots; I guess you are really not thinking about it too much.  Certainly, I mean everybody played great.  I think Brian shot 67, he shoots 5-under and he is high score by two shots, that's pretty tough company.  
 
Q.  The last hole if you were to birdie that you guys would have birdied every hole as a group.  I think you were the man that just about did it --
 
BRETT QUIGLEY: I didn't want to let everybody down (laughs) yeah, I mean, I hit a good putt and it -- I thought it was a good speed, just lipped out and came right back to me. Certainly no complaint.  I made 9 birdies today.  I made my share of putts.  I continue to make mistakes, I guess that's my game ,I made two bogeys, just part of it.  
 
BRETT QUIGLEY:  Definitely.  I mean, looks like I am going to be paired with Bob again.  To me, that is a real good thing.  He and I have worked well last two days so hopefully that will continue.  We know we have got to play well because this golf course is in such good shape and the greens are so good that anybody that makes the cut, I guarantee you guys that made the cut at 4-under someone will shoot seven or eight under, 9-under tomorrow from those guys and get right in there before we even tee off.  That's just the nature, if you give us good conditions, good greens, guys are going to shoot low and certainly that is the case out here.  So I think Bob and I both know we have got to play well this weekend and not  -- keep shooting 4-, 5-under each day.  
 
Q.  Talk a little bit about the condition of the golf course?
 
BRETT QUIGLEY: Perfect, fairways are firm.  Great shape, the greens are good.  They are true.  You can -- if you start to putt on line, it is going to go in.  Greens are just  -- they are great.  
 
Q.  You talked earlier in the week that you are playing relaxed with a lot of confidence; is that a continuation of that today?
 
BRETT QUIGLEY: Definitely.  It's funny I didn't think I was going to get in at The International and I played there and played well.  I didn't think I was going to get in here but they gave me a sponsor exemption.  I kind of thought  -- I didn't think I was in the PGA; turns out I am in the PGA. I thought I was going to have these three weeks off.  I really didn't have any expectations this  week at all; didn't have any at The INTERNATIONAL.  And as a result I am having fun; not getting in my own way and I am just accepting what -- whatever happens and when I do that, I play well.  But definitely, how could I not have fun.  I mean, I am playing great.  I am doing something that I love, I am on the PGA TOUR. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT