KEMPER INSURANCE OPEN
June 1, 2000
Brett Quigley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BRETT QUIGLEY: Dana gave me a talking to last night, my uncle. I've been talking to
Dana all week. Obviously, he's been playing great this whole year, and I played a lot with
him this winter and was kicking his butt. He said if he can do it, I can do it. But I've
just been trying too hard. This is my second event since AT&T. I think today was a big
event for me not to get in my own way. And fortunately, I got off to a good start and made
two birdies, so kind of took some pressure off. 

Q. Your picture is in a lot of the Hilfiger ads. A lot of people say, "Who is that
guy? We know the other fellows or some of the other fellows." Do you feel like it's
time for people to know "who I am"?

BRETT QUIGLEY: I felt like it was time three years ago. That's the thing that I've
struggled with. I feel like I can play out here and compete and, you know, it's just a
matter of doing it and you have to do it. So far, I really haven't. The last year, the
last six months I've really come a long way with my attitude and my game. It's finally
starting to come around.

Q. Was there something wrong with your attitude or just something not right with it? In
other words, did you have a negative attitude or did you need to get more positive? 

BRETT QUIGLEY: Not so much negative or positive. But I think there was more a sense of
urgency before, oh, gosh, I've got to do it this week. I've got to play well today. Got to
do this, do that; get caught up in looking at the leaderboard. Thinking of the results
instead of the process of how you get there. That's a big thing for me. If I can stay
caught up in the process, I have a tendency to do pretty well. 

Q. So far, it seems like a lot of the scoring is taking place on the back nine. Did you
feel like on the front, maybe it was just a question of just being patient or did you feel
like maybe --

BRETT QUIGLEY: I thought the front played as easy as the back. Finally, when it warmed
up, the golf ball was going a little further because on Monday and Tuesday, this golf
course -- I mean, today it was 50 yards longer on every hole. It's just amazing how much
further the golf ball was going today. This golf course is good. If you hit it in the
fairway you can score and if you're little off, it will get you. I like the golf course.
It's a good test. 

Q. What happened Monday and Tuesday? 

BRETT QUIGLEY: It was cold, 65 degrees, and still wet and rainy and finally dried out
today. 10, 3-wood and wedge on 10, about six feet and made it. 11, 8 iron and lucked out,
made a 40-footer up-and-down the hill. It was nice to see that one go in. 18, I hit a good
drive and a good 7-iron about four feet. 2, I hit driver, 3-iron in sand wedge about six
feet left of the hole and made birdie. And then 6, I made a great drive and I hit a 4-iron
about 30 feet behind the hole and 2-putted. 

Q. What is it about your uncle's game that you admire most? 

BRETT QUIGLEY: I wish I could hit it as straight as he does. It's unbelievable. That
guy hits his irons so straight. Plus his attitude. Wherever he's played and he gets
comfortable, he really thinks he can beat everybody. And he's done that -- obviously he's
won this year, but he's had like 10 Top-10s in 16 events. You know, the guy has gone from
nowhere to competing or beating Watson and Irwin and Fleisher and all of the guys that are
playing great. All of the sudden, he is one of those guys. Pretty neat.

Q. What kind of player is your father?

BRETT QUIGLEY: He's a great player. He's won our State 8 times our State Amateur three
times. So we still have some darned good grudge matches when the three of us get together.
And we are always kidding each other about who is the best of the family. You don't want
to be known as the third-best Quigley because you're in trouble.

Q. What's your father's name?

BRETT QUIGLEY: Paul. 

Q. So you maybe in a sense coming from a late-blooming family, but you were an
all-American and a known player early, so are you an early-blooming or a late-blooming
Quigley?

BRETT QUIGLEY: Yeah, I had a lot of success as a junior golfer and I think with that
success, I guess it made me -- maybe too much expectations or just trying too hard. It's
easy to talk about it here: Go ahead and relax and have a good time out there and really
stay focused. But when you miss a few putts or hit it close a couple times for birdie and
start grinding, it's not always easy to remember that every time and do it.

Q. Is it good that golf allows you to still be trying to find yourself in early 30s
whereas most sports would have chewed you up and spit you out years ago? 

BRETT QUIGLEY: Golf is just such a test. I mean, you never know what you're going to
show up each day, what game is going to show up, whether you're going to play good or bad.
That's just the way it is. Some days you get the good ones and you get away with some bad
ones, too. 

Q. Is there a reason why we are seeing guys who are in their late 20s, early 30s
getting out here and being successful, as opposed to 25 years ago when guys had to learn
away in their early 20s? Is the BUY.COM TOUR making that big a difference?

BRETT QUIGLEY: I think. So there's certainly a lot of great players out there. I think
it's tougher to make a cut, 55 ties instead of 70 ties. You always see cuts a lot closer
to the leader there. I don't know, just maybe because kids are watching on TV when they
are growing up and all of the sudden you have to compete again, you know, whoever it is,
the guys you are watching whether it's Tiger or Duval that might hold them back until they
get to their late 20s or 30 tees, until they think they can win or start to compete. I
don't know why you don't see more younger players. 

Q. It's hard to find -- Justin might be the last guy?

BRETT QUIGLEY: Mickelson came out, Gamez. There aren't -- maybe 10 guys at the most.
You'd think there would be more. You're right. 

Q. Guys who are in your position are trying to sort of catch a wave, have a good
tournament, build some confidence. What kind of things do you hope for, whether you
physically like a golf course or playing with a guy who is hot, to rub off on?

BRETT QUIGLEY: Both of those definitely help. I would say the golf course is the most
important thing for me. If I like the golf course, then certainly I have a better chance
of doing well. And obviously, I like this place. I played okay here a couple of times. But
it's a good golf course. It's long and it's tough. 

Q. Is that a matter of having played well before and knowing you can visual the way the
course sets up? 

BRETT QUIGLEY: Probably both. Combination of everything. And also helped having Greg
Chalmers play well today. He and I both just kind of kept going. Didn't really give any
back. I don't think he made a bogey. The two of us a whole day without a bogey. That's
pretty good out here. 

Q. You've only had three starts this year?

BRETT QUIGLEY: This is my fourth. Hawaii, AT&T and Greensboro. 

Q. What have you been doing when you haven't been playing? 

BRETT QUIGLEY: I played some BUY.COM events in the last month. 

Q. How has that helped you and what's been your best finish there?

BRETT QUIGLEY: I had a second and a third, two out of three weeks. So it's definitely
helped. I played in the last group two out of three weeks. It's kept me sharp. So instead
of not playing from Greensboro to now, certainly good to have a place to play and compete.

Q. Is it a little bit of swallowing your pride? 

BRETT QUIGLEY: Definitely. If you play the TOUR and go back down there, it's not
punishment, but a lot of guys see it as that. But you've got to be ready to play out there
because it's certainly different. Obviously, this is the best place in the world to play,
and they are doing a great job on the BUY.COM TOUR, but it's not the PGA TOUR.

Q. When you say you have to be ready to play, you have to make birdies, is that what
you're saying?

BRETT QUIGLEY: Yeah, you've just got to be ready to play. You can't go in there
thinking you're just going to kick everybody's butt. Bigger than life, I think. I think
some guys have a tendency to do that and then don't do well as a result. 

Q. What were the events on the BUY.COM TOUR?

BRETT QUIGLEY: Finished second -- tied for second in Florence, South Carolina Classic,
and tied for third in Richmond. Richmond Open, maybe. Maybe it's this area of the country
that I play well in. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT