TRANSITIONS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 21, 2009
Brett Quigley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Great playing, 68. The reason you made a great up-and-down on 18, that's just the way your putter was today. Do you know you only had 25 putts all day today?  
 BRETT QUIGLEY: I knew I was putting well. I knew I made a bunch. Every time missed a green, I felt like I had a good chance of getting it up-and-down. I knew it was low, mid 20s, but I still left a couple out there.  
  
  Q. This golf course, though, it is not getting any easier whatsoever as we go through the week.   
 BRETT QUIGLEY: The greens are probably the most difficult part, today especially. They are drying out, they are getting firm and they are getting really, really fast. Coming in the last hour and a half or two hours, those guys are going to have some fun.   
  
  Q. Now if I told you at the start of the day, would you go sit in the clubhouse with a 68?   
 BRETT QUIGLEY: Absolutely. I played Thursday and I think Furyk was 7-under through 14, and I said I would take 7-under for the week and sit down.   
 It's a good, hard golf course. It's fair and it's tough and the scores reflect that.   
  
  Q. What are you going to do the rest of the day and tomorrow?  
 BRETT QUIGLEY: I'm going to get really nervous and think about -- no, I'll probably go to a movie, do some laundry and just kind of chill out in the air conditioning and just relax.   
  
  Q. Just talk about you had the T-2 in Puerto Rico, your overall game, you're in a pretty good stretch right now?  
 BRETT QUIGLEY: I played really good at Honda, just clicked. Last round in México I played really well, and Honda played great and stumbled coming down the stretch. Puerto Rico finished off well.   
 Playing nice, making some key saves like that up-and-down on 18.   
  
  Q. Anything during the round, any key shot or key putt that sort of kept the round going, or is it just pretty routine?  
 BRETT QUIGLEY: It's just a steady round. The bogey that I made on 9, I came back and made birdie on 10 and never made another birdie coming in. Played nice and solid, so out here, 3-under is pretty darned good every day.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT