THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 7, 2009
Brett Quigley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Brett, five never par, one shot out of the lead going into the final round?
 BRETT QUIGLEY: Any time you can shoot under par on this golf course, you've played pretty well.

 Q. Last year wasn't the best year for you, but in some ways it was with the birth of your first child, but how about going into the final round trying to win your first PGA TOUR event, what are you thinking about?
 BRETT QUIGLEY: I'm just trying to go have fun. That's what I'm doing all week, just not really worried about playing golf. I'm sure I'll be thinking about it tomorrow, but I know if I can just think about playing golf when I'm out there, I might have a chance to win.

 Q. How tough is this golf course?
 BRETT QUIGLEY: It's impossible. I'm glad I don't have to play here every day. You can make bogey or double every hole. But it's good. It's fair. It's tough. 
 15 through 7, you know you are going to stand up at those three holes and know you're going to make a bogey on one of them. There are not many holes where you are thinking that over a three-hole stretch. 

 Q. Have you played this course a million times through the years?
 BRETT QUIGLEY: Not very often. I've played it the three years in the tournament and that's it. It's funny, it's a great golf course but it's a difficult golf course. 

 Q. Have you avoided it for some reason?
 BRETT QUIGLEY: Maybe unconsciously. It's probably too hard for me to play every day, and certainly under these conditions.

 Q. Really beats you up? 
 BRETT QUIGLEY: It does. It's like playing a U.S. Open. Par is a good score out here, and certainly if you shoot under par out here, you've played well. 

 Q. Until a guy wins a tournament, it's always hanging out there; what switch do you turn to get over it?
 BRETT QUIGLEY: I'm going to really try hard tomorrow. I'm just going to keep playing. That's all I can do. If I finish tomorrow, if I'm atop the leaderboard, that's great. That's something I've wanted to do my whole life. 
 I've just got to go play. That's all I can control. 

 Q. How many people will be following you around tomorrow?
 BRETT QUIGLEY: It's nice it's a home week. Ken Kennerly has been great, he's probably given me a hundred tickets so far. It just a fun week, everybody is around this week. It's just a great week. It's funny, everybody comes down from the north and there are a lot of friends here, and I just go play golf. It certainly a good distraction for me to have a lot of people around and a lot of friends. It keeps me loose. 

 Q. Maybe that will be an advantage that you haven't had. 
 BRETT QUIGLEY: I think so. They will be rooting hard and pulling hard for me, so that's nice. 
 We are used to playing in the wind. You have to hit different shots. You can't just hit standard shots. You really have to work on hitting some golf shots. 

 Q. Was there one hole out there with you were holding your breath?
 BRETT QUIGLEY: 15 and 17 are just two tough tee shots. You have to hit two tough tee shots, and on the front pin, there's no bail-out. You don't want to be too far and obviously short is not an option. Certainly there's some satisfaction hitting two good shots there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT