THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY MORGAN STANLEY
May 29, 2008
Brett Quigley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   LAURA NEAL: Brett, thanks for joining us in the interview room. Nice way to start. You got in as alternate on Tuesday and definitely made the most of it today.  
 BRETT QUIGLEY: Yeah, I was home relaxing with my family Amy and Lily and got the call about 1 o'clock on Tuesday and just knew -- I played here a couple times and really like the golf course. So I knew I didn't need to rush over. So I came over and got in 4 o'clock yesterday. So just love the golf course and love the place and it's a pretty easy place to come to.   
 LAURA NEAL: Take some questions.   
  
  Q. Did you bother playing yesterday afternoon?  
 BRETT QUIGLEY: I went out and played a few holes. Azinger and I played the back nine. He played them all I just kind of skipped around a few. So I wasn't going to play. I was just hitting balls and then on the range was talking about how difficult the golf course is and how it's playing firm and the rough's ten inches, the greens are rolling 15 and the bunkers are furrowed, so it was -- I mean, it was a doomsday out there they said.   
 (Laughter.)  
  
  Q. Justin Rose talked about how pure the greens were. And it strikes me that maybe they're so good they make the course a little more defenseless, that it's going to go exactly where you hit it. And I understand they're fast, but because they're so pure does that make it a little easier to putt?  
 BRETT QUIGLEY: I don't think so. Well, maybe. If you start on line and hit a good putt it's going to go in. But I don't know if you saw I played with Justin Bolli. He hit a birdie putt on 18. He made several. He putted it off the green and took two chips. The greens are so fast you can't believe it. The whole day you're playing defensive, even on uphill putts. You're always -- for me I was always trying to hit it softer than I wanted to because we haven't played greens this fast this year.   
  
  Q. So did it feel like a doomsday?  
 BRETT QUIGLEY: No, the thing I like about this golf course is if you play well you can shoot some good scores. Kenny Perry had a great round today and some other guys shot under par, but if you're off a little you can make bogey or double on any hole out here. So it certainly can bite you.   
  
  Q. How often were you in the rough today?  
 BRETT QUIGLEY: I don't even know. I couldn't even tell you. I hit it in the left rough on 10 and then I hit it in the left creek on 11. Other than that I was in a bunker on 6. And 7 was first cut. So the two times I hit it in the first cut. So you got to keep it out of the deep stuff. I only had to pitch it on 10 out of the deep stuff and I couldn't hit the green on 10 there.   
  
  Q. Some of the guys are saying that these are the fastest greens they have ever seen and others are saying they haven't seen them this fast in four years?  
 BRETT QUIGLEY: I don't know about ever. Augusta gets that quick. I'm used to that at home in Rhode Island in the summertime, some of the Donald Ross courses -- the course I play, they get their greens rolling 13. And they have got severe slopes. So I grew up on courses that have fast greens and good greens and it seems like I do well on those courses.   
  
  Q. They talked about the rough some on Tuesday, and Nicklaus said he thought that that would not, no one would enjoy it at all. But is the story of the day really the greens over the rough or the rough?  
 BRETT QUIGLEY: I think the greens. I think the fairways are pretty good. As far as -- I hate to say they're generous, but if you hit good shots you're going to hit the fairway. But the greens are just so fast you just, you can't believe it.   
 We were talking, Marco Dawson and I talking on 18 and the normal golfer, an average golfer can't even grasp how hard that green is, how hard that hole is. You got to hit a great tee shot to get in the fairway. And looking at that green it looks like the pin is in the bunker. And if you bail out like Justin did left you got an impossible putt. You just can't believe how hard it is.   
  
  Q. Talk about your stretch from five through nine where you got all those birdies?  
 BRETT QUIGLEY: I had a nice putt on 5, about a 6-footer. And then I had about an 8-footer on maybe 9-footer on 6 and made it. And then it was got up-and-down from the bunker on 7. So maybe two-footer on 7. About a 5-footer on 8. And a 5-footer on 9. I hit it in there pretty close, a nice stretch and just hit some good putts. So it was a nice run for sure.   
  
  Q. So even to shoot the number like you did, you felt more defensive?  
 BRETT QUIGLEY: Yeah.  
  
  Q. During the course of that rather than attacking just because why?  
 BRETT QUIGLEY: Because you're always concerned about where the ball is. Whether it's in the fairway or on the green, where you're going to come in from. You certainly, to me you have to play a lot maybe more thinking, I don't know. I don't know what the right word is. But certainly more focus, more attention, to everything.   
 There are a lot of holes, like the 11th hole the pin was just over the bunker. If you hit it just right of the pin with any kind of spin you could spin it back in the water. And it's just, every hole is like that. You're on the defense.   
 LAURA NEAL: Brett, thanks so much. We'll see you again.   
 BRETT QUIGLEY: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT