THE STELLA ARTOIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 8, 2005
Mark Philippoussis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question. 
 

Q.  Obviously, another step up today in terms of your opponent?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah.  It's my first tournament back after a while since Miami, so obviously a couple of things obviously I could have done a lot better.  But I think the most important thing for me is that I pulled up physically healthy, and my body feels good. So, you know, that's the most positive, you know -- the most important thing for myself. 
 

Q.  What are the plans for next week?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Still got some doubles to play, but I'm sure the plan next week is just to get out on the practice court and then work on a few things, just to, you know, get guys and play sets against them.  You know, get as much practice and match play as I can before Wimbledon starts. 
 

Q.  What would be the "few things"?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Just rhythm.  You know, first serve, first volleys, most important thing.  Didn't have the rhythm on the serve today.  Wasn't effective at all.  You know, just lost that rhythm out there. Yeah, that's, you know -- trying -- I felt good off the ground, you know.  I felt like I was moving good side to side, you know, off the ground.  But, you know, just movement coming in for that first volley definitely could have been a lot better.  There are things, you know, I have to work on so... 
 

Q.  Were you holding back at all?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I wasn't serving as hard as I could have.  But, you know, I think something -- I'll step up definitely as the days go on, you know, closer towards Wimbledon. 
 

Q.  You weren't guarding an injury at all?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No, no.  I've been looking after my back, stretching well, doing the right things.  I'm happy the way I felt out there.  I felt good. 
 

Q.  After such a layoff, how hard is it to get your rhythm back?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  It's tough.  I've gone from one opponent to the next, you know, completely different.  My first-round opponent actually gave a bit of rhythm on his serving.  Ground strokes, I felt like pretty much nearly every point I was in there. With Andy, it's the first time I've played him.  I hardly ever practiced with him.  So it was just tough getting used to his serve.  He's got a very quick service action - throws it up, just lunges right into it.  So getting used to that, it was tough.  It's not the kind of match where you can sort of work your way into it with rhythm.  From the word "go," it's full pace, and so I couldn't work my way into it like I did yesterday. But, like I said, something I can work on in the next few days. 
 

Q.  What do you think of his chances at Wimbledon, Andy's?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Oh, he definitely has to be one of the favorites, without a doubt.  Obviously, last year, losing in the final, year before in the semis, two-time champion here.  So he definitely would have to be rated as one of the favorites. 
 

Q.  You won't be playing next week?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No, no. 
 

Q.  Is there a reason for not opting --
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Actually, I think I might play a match or two in exhibition; I'm not sure which one. But, yeah, besides that, I don't really like to play a tournament a week before a Grand Slam. 
 

Q.  What is your overwhelming or overriding feeling going into Wimbledon?  How do you feel about the whole thing going in there?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Looking forward to it.  You know, that's all I can -- I have nothing to panic about, anything like that.  I'm excited to be back. Like I said, the biggest thing for me -- obviously, I'm a little disappointed, but health-wise I've pulled up fine after that match; during that match I felt good.  So I've got a lot of time from here till it starts where I can get out on the practice court and work on some things. 
 

Q.  Is there less pressure because the expectations might not be so high because you're coming back?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah, definitely.  That's another way you can look at it, for sure. Obviously, you know, people see me as dangerous, but not consider me a favorite.  It doesn't worry me.  For me, every tournament I go into, I just worry about myself, and especially Wimbledon where it's always -- you know, it's a special tournament for myself. And, you know, you definitely can't count anyone out in men's tennis, in the game, especially at the moment.  So, you know, I'll just be looking forward to, you know, that first match. 
 

Q.  You've got a great record at Wimbledon.  What is it about Wimbledon that obviously does something for you?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  It's just a time where in the locker room, before you step up to the match, you know it's Wimbledon, you're ready to go, and you're pumped from the word "go."  I've always said it's just a special vibe around there.  It's the only tournament that people are camping outside in a tent for tickets.  Pretty much it's just right there, just your feeling about it.  You know, just the whole history behind it, just a big buzz. 
 

Q.  With the three injuries that you've had this year, Hopman Cup to Miami to a week ago, when you're on court at the moment, are you at all concerned with some of the movements that you're making in the back of your mind at all?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No, not at all, because I've told myself from now on I'm not getting out there unless I'm 100%.  I'm not going to get out there if I'm 75 and just go through the motions like unfortunately I've done in the past; haven't had a choice. You know, I could have, you know, probably played the French, but I didn't want to do that.  I didn't want my first tournament to be best-of-five sets on clay; it's gonna be tough for the body.  I didn't want to do that and maybe jeopardize this and Wimbledon. So, for me, I've been working hard and I know that I'm fit enough to come back and play, and I now have.  I'm feeling good so far. 
 

Q.  How long after Miami, after crutches, how long after that stage did you actually start hitting tennis balls?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  It took around three weeks to get on the court again.  I tore some ligaments, so it was pretty bad.  It was a lot worse than I thought it would be. 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT