U.S. OPEN
September 1, 1996
Mark Philippoussis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Mark, how often does it happen that you have no breakpoints against your serve?  Is that a regular thing?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, I mean, today I played solid.  I didn't really do any silly shots, didn't give many free points today, especially on my serve, which was good.  I tried to win my serve as easy as possible the whole time.  I didn't want to try and get even to 30 or breakpoint down on my serve, I just wanted to try to be comfortable. 
 

Q.  And you talked the other day about how you like to show your opponents what it's going to be like early.  In that first game, it was just overpowering.  Were you sending a message right there?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, yeah.  I mean, I'm going to go out there, I'm going to serve big the whole time.  I just wanted to show what it was going to be like. 
 

Q.  Is it important psychologically for you to become the fastest server, to let the opponents know?  Right now  you're tied I guess at 137 miles an hour.  Would it be a nice psychological edge to be the fastest on the Tour?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, for me, I don't think -- I'm sure it would be -- I mean, I know for myself I'll be fastest server in the world, something to know.  I don't think it helps much really.  I know I feel comfortable with my serve and can get a lot of free points from it.  Some other guys know that, too. 
 

Q.  Are you consciously trying to serve aces?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, pretty much, yeah.  On big points.  I have the rhythm at the moment, got confidence to say to myself, "This is going to be an ace down the middle," whatever.  That's what I feel like when I'm serving well, that's what I feel can like happen.  I can pick the box and make it.  Even if I'm not serving aces, I'd still like to be serving big in the corners, coming in behind it. 
 

Q.  Are you trying now to work on other aspects of your game, given your serve is so good?  Are you trying to concentrate on the other parts of the game?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, I have been concentrating on the other parts of my game.  When I'm serving well, the ball's not coming back, I haven't got a chance to do something else.  When the ball comes back, I'll show you I can do something else. 
 

Q.  Do you expect that to happen if you play Sampras? 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, I mean, on my serve, if I do the right things, throw the ball up, no matter who I serve, I'm going to serve aces.  If he's a great returner, if I hit it to him, he's going to hit it back, make me play the whole time.  If I get up and serve in the corners, no matter who is on the other side. 
 

Q.  There's other players who have your size, but nobody's able to generate that kind of power consistently as you do.  How do you do it?  What is your key?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, I mean, I've always had a big serve ever since I was small, young, big serve in my category in juniors than anyone else.  Had a lot to do when I was young, I was getting out on the court with my father and serve an hour and a half a day as hard as I could, no matter where the ball went, working on rhythm, serving the ball every day. 
 

Q.  What's his name, your father?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Nick Philippoussis. 
 

Q.  Mark, have you ever hurt anyone or broken anything besides a string?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Sorry? 
 

Q.  Have you ever hurt anyone or broken anything besides a string on your serve?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No, I haven't hurt anyone yet.  
 

Q.  Never hit a net judge?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No.  I mean, I hit linesmen and they get out of the way.  Never hurt them.  I'm sure it stung for a while. 
 

Q.  No kills?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No. 
 

Q.  Has the change in coaches affected your game at all, changed your game at all?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, I mean, being with Peter McNamara just made me realize, made me think a lot more on the court.  Before pretty much I went out on the court without a game plan really, just playing my own game, which was wrong.  I think no matter who you play, no matter when you're playing, go out with a game plan, make it so much more easier.  Peter and I sit down before matches discussing my tactics for the match.  I'm going out there and playing like I have to play.  Made it a whole lot easier. 
 

Q.  Mark, how well are you playing at the moment?  Are you at the top of your game right now?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I wouldn't say I'm at the top of my game.  I just would say I'm playing solid, just nice, solid tennis, all I have to do to win, nothing special, nothing big, just nice and solid. 
 

Q.  Ivanisevic came in here before and said playing  doubles against you made him realize what it's like to face his serve.  Can you comment on what it's like to face his serve?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I'm sure it would be vice versa.  If it throws it up, it can go anywhere.  Same ball toss, it can go one way or the other.  Extremely hard to pick.  It's a huge serve. 
 

Q.  Does today's win change your ranking?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I've been told it puts me in the Top 20. 
 

Q.  How does that make you feel?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Makes me feel happy because at the start of the year my goal was to be inside the Top 20. I know inside I'm capable of doing much more.  The year hasn't ended yet. 
 

Q.  Did you get the sense today that Pioline really was so handcuffed by your serve that it affected the rest of his game, that he was playing so defensively all the time?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, I mean, it was very hard out there because it was windy, swirling everywhere.  Made it a lot tougher on the groundstrokes.  The ball was moving a lot more through the air.  Just playing some solid tennis.  I think he missed a lot of groundstrokes than normal.  I don't think he was on top of his game today. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT