PILOT PEN INTERNATIONAL
August 15, 1996
Mark Philippoussis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Mark can you talk about the match today, how it goes, what it meant to come in?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: It was very important for me to win that match confidence wise. I
think things went really well in the match. Lost a bit of concentration, served a couple
double-faults. In tiebreakers I served really well, and that was the key I think to
winning it. 
 
Q. Can you talk a little about your game? Obviously known for the serve, but it seems
like the other parts are coming along. Can you talk a little bit about that, the ground
strokes, all the other facets of your game?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Yeah. You know, I've been working on my game to have an all-around
game, not to just rely on my serves. I'd like to think if my serve is not working, which
it the past in the hasn't, that I can rely on ground strokes or coming into the net. I
think I played smart today. I didn't go for too many stupid shots, kept it going on the
rallies. If I had a chance to go for it, I would. Sometimes it paid off. 
 
Q. How typical is that of tennis today? You're ranked 37 in the world, Courier is No.
9. Straight sets. Does that say anything about the old cliche?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I said it before, I'll say it again. In men's tennis, the depth is
so great that anyone can beat anyone. Like I said, it's not like the women's where the top
women dominate. I slipped my ranking, my ranking was 21. I'm starting to play some good
tennis now so I'm looking forward to the beginning of the year. 
 
Q. What's it going to take to make that breakthrough to 15, move your way up? What do
you think you're missing at this point?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I think the only thing I'm missing is match toughness, just
concentrate on the match. Today I think I concentrated really well, you know. There were
some times when it didn't work. I just took a few deep breaths and really concentrated,
just, you know, played some tough tennis. 
 
Q. More of a mental thing than physical?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Exactly, you know, feeling great on the court at the moment. I
mean, it's just mentally for me. 
 
Q. Are you worried about him maybe having more experience and taking advantage of that
late the second set? Once you started getting behind, had trouble with one serve, looked
like it could have turned the other way?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: In tennis it takes one point to turn something around. You could be
up a break, next thing you know you're down a break in the third set. It's very easy. I
think the crowd, obviously I knew was going to be with him being an American, but I think
the crowd is very fair here, which is great. I also have some support, too. Like I said
before, I just hung in there tough. 
 
Q. Where does this rank as an important victory in your career, knock off Jim Courier?
Is this one of the biggest victories you've had?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: It's definitely one of the -- the biggest was in beating Pete in
the Australian Open. I think it was extremely important for me to have a win like this
because I haven't had a win like this in a while and I needed a win like this just to get
my confidence up. At the moment I'm hitting the ball really well. The thing is with me, if
I do get my confidence up, I think I can do some damage then. See how it goes. 
 
Q. When was the last win like this?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Probably would have been Pete.  
 
Q. Your serve continued to be very strong in the second set. (inaudible) particularly
off balance toward the end when you served?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: My serve was up and down a lot in the match. I started off serving
well, got a few double-faults. It happened in the second set as well. I think the
important thing is when it really mattered, that's when I got the big serves in, free
points. 
 
Q. What was that win over Pete in your own country in a Grand Slam, what does that do
to your expectations? Did it add a lot of pressure?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Well, not then. I mean, before the Australian Open, the Hopman cup,
I didn't take the pressure too well, pretty much toppled down. Didn't win a match at the
Hopman, lost first round at Sidney. Just really sat down and had a look at everything and
just really tried to relax out there, not worry about what everyone thinks or expects of
me, just go out there and enjoy tennis and play tennis. That's what I did. You know, that
win I think was really great because I had my family there, my friends were there, just
the support was unbelievable. Something you won't forget for a long time.  
 
Q. What is the pressure and expectation like for you in Australia? Do you sometimes
feel like maybe the whole country (inaudible), the tradition?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Hard to say. A couple years ago it was Patrick Rafter, a lot of
pressure on him. That showed. This year it went to me. It's hard to say, though, because
Pat came back from an injury and he's starting to play well now, as you can see.
Stoltenberg is also playing well. There's a few guys up there. Hard to put it just on one
person. We're all playing great tennis at the moment, beating some top players. If we keep
on going, I think -- I'm sure Australian tennis will improve over the years. 
 
Q. Could you talk about your shot, the cross court winner that caused the first
tiebreak?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Sorry? 
 
Q. Your cross court winner that forced the first tiebreak, do you remember that in the
first set?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: No. 
 
Q. It was good (laughter).
 
Q. Yes.
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I don't remember, sorry. 
 
Q. What do you think of the time when Courier broke back in the second set and tied it
at 4-All? He seemed to be gaining momentum. What were you thinking at that point? 
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Well, I was thinking I got up to 2-Love. Jim Courier is not going
to give me anything, I know he's going to fight back. I'm going to have to play some great
points and keep my first. A couple of double-faults, he was back into it. I was very
frustrated with myself for letting him back into it. I think there were four double-faults
from him. I broke straight back. I knew I couldn't do that to Jim. If I gave him an
opportunity to get back, he'll take it. It's very hard to get any free points from him. 
 
Q. Do you think you're at the top of your game right now?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: No, I don't think I'm at the top of my game right now. The good
thing is that I'm winning matches without being at the top of my game. I think that's very
important. To win matches, if my serve is not working well, I think at the moment
everything has not come to together. The important thing is I've found a way to win the
matches, and I think that's more important than being at the top of your game. 
 
Q. What do you have to do to improve to get to that next step?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Well, I'm not going to really think about it that much. I'm just
going to go back and relax now, hit tomorrow, just try to concentrate for the match. I
won't get too worked up about it. You just go in there and work out a game plan to play
and just play that game plan. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT