XXVI OLYMPIC GAMES
July 26, 1996
Mark Philippoussis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Mark, you seemed to be really having a very good time out there, seemed like you were smiling to yourself on a couple of occasions.  You were really having quite a blast. 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:   Yeah, you know, just been thinking a lot about myself, and because I just remember whenever I do well, relaxed and enjoying myself.  And last few months sort of, you know, started the year really well, then because I did so well, concentrating too high, I think then I lost my enjoyment in playing and I started -- well, I didn't get sick of the game because I am only 19 years old, but it is hard to explain.  Just wanted to get out there and just relax and have fun. 
 

Q. Would you say that it was closer to a feeling of staleness maybe when you say you'd lost a bit of enjoyment; was it a case of feeling a bit stale?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:   Yeah, you can put it that way.  That is a good way to put it.  Yeah, so, you know, just want to go out there and enjoy myself. You know, if I played a bad point, instead of getting upset, you smile, and your opponent sees you smiling and is wondering what is happening.  I think I  was very relaxed out there. 
 

Q. Did that feeling you had, Mark, did that also have something to do with the hassle about the Davis Cup and all that you have sorted out now?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:   Being stale back -- 
 

Q. Yeah. 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:   That didn't have too much to do with it because, you know, I said what I had to say about that, and I wanted to play.  But a few things that came up wrong, but that is behind me now.  And like I said, I think just wasn't that.  I started to lose to a couple of guys that I shouldn't have, and it just built up from there.  And I wasn't enjoying my practice too, so that's what it was. 
 

Q. Could you hear the crowd at all in today's match, because there were a lot of oohs and aahs and look at the size of him, and all of that? 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:   Yeah, that is pretty funny.  Yeah, I mean, that is how I play.  Everyone knows I hit the ball hard, and I serve hard, and also go for my second serve too, but the good thing is, though, I can feel that I am starting to get timing on my groundstrokes and my serve.  And I haven't played like this and enjoyed myself like this for a long time, and I think at the moment I am -- match after match my groundstrokes are getting bigger and bigger and getting more rhythm, so I am getting more confident.  
 

Q. How much do you think it is the fact that it's the Olympic games and it is once every four years event and that is also helping building your enthusiasm?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:   Yeah, exactly.  I explained to you before about being in the Village amongst athletes and just being on the court too, I think, sort of, it's the same buzz being on the court, you are playing for your country, but it is not like a Davis Cup.  It is like -- the Olympics, like you say, it is once every four years, it is not -- so you really could only have this one chance of hope; maybe play a couple of more times, but you never know what happens, so got to make the best of that.  But the strange thing is, for myself, I am having a lot of fun instead of being like serious and trying real hard.  I mean, I am trying hard, but..... 
 

Q. I haven't seen you play for about a year.  You seemed to have gotten quite a bit of strength and gained weight?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:   I didn't put that much weight.  My weight stayed pretty much the same.  I have taken a lot body fat off and I have been working at the gym.  It has been a lot less body fat and I am feeling very good on the court at the moment so..... 
 

Q. If you meet Costa in the next round, how would you play him?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:   Oh, you guys have to wait and see.  I am going to play my own game, but it doesn't matter who I play.  I have said it a lot of times before, I am going to play my own game and if I think -- if I play my own game well, it doesn't really matter who I play, I will feel confident for the match. 
 

Q. Costa or Meligeni, essentially both of them are clay court players, so without making yourself overconfident or anything like that, that should help you on this surface where the balls are moving quite a bit faster through the air?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:   I will tell you what, when we got here the courts are fast because they are new and they weren't too fast.  In the last few days, the courts have speeded up unbelievably, and the serves are coming through much quicker and staying really low.  I will be putting a lot of pressure on them and trying to not make them pass me.  Maybe they will pass me at the start, but it will get harder and harder towards the match, so all I can do is play my game.  Not going to stay at the baseline with them because that is what they want.  I am just going to out there and put a lot of pressure on them.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT