NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 12, 1996
Mark Philippoussis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 JOE LYNCH:  Mark Philippoussis is into the second round making
his first appearance here at the NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONSHIP CUP.  Last
year he reached three finals, including the final at Scottsdale
where he was a qualifier, ranked outside the top 300 in the world;
where he started his jump up in the world rankings which is going
pretty strongly right now.  First question for Mark.

 Q.  Just in general how do you feel like you are playing at
this point in the season?

 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I mean, so far, you know, I mean, I could
be playing better, but at the moment, I mean, I am playing okay.
 I have got a long way to go for this year, so I am just getting
into it.  I'm still working on my game now, but, you know, it
is coming together well.

 Q.  Seemed to be coming together in the second set today;
played pretty well?

 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I played okay.  I didn't serve as well as
I wanted to, but he made a lot of unforced errors which made it
a lot easier for me. 

 Q.  How big a boost for you was the Australian Open experience
in that kind of wind and that court?

 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I mean, it was a big boost, I think, for
me.  I think beating Pete Sampras, the No. 1 player in the world,
I think just made everything sort of -- once I got on the court,
there was no reason why I couldn't beat anyone else since I have
beaten a player like that, so it was a big confidence boost for
me, I think, going into the whole year.

 Q.  You have been able to use that in other matches subsequently
or did it take a while to come down from the high?

 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  You know, every match is a different match
that I am going to play.  I mean, I sort of try and remember how
I played then in that match and try and sort of do the thing again
because that is how I want to play.  I want -- when I did put
everything together, it was really -- it worked out great, so
I just want to try and play all my matches like that this year.


 Q.  The ball really whizzes through the air in this thin desert
air.  I wonder if you have noticed that and if you might think
that it will be an advantage to somebody who hits it as hard as
you do?

 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  The air is definitely a lot thinner and
the ball is flowing through the air a lot quicker, so it definitely
an advantage, I think, to both players.  But  for myself, I mean,
these courts, you know, are a good speed for me and the balls
are pretty fast, so I am feeling pretty comfortable on the court.

 JOE LYNCH:  Did you manage to get an extra ten yards on your
driving?

 MARK PHILPPOUSSIS:  50.

 Q.  How far can you hit a golf ball?

 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Biggest I hit one was like four days ago
I hit one here, a bit of wind behind me, but I hit it 360.

 Q.  360?

 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah.

 Q.  Are you playing the French?

 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yes.

 Q.  This is the first time you will play the French?

 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yes.

 Q.  Any plans or hopes for how you think you will perform
there against someone like your opponent today?

 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  What, saying he is a claycourter?

 Q.  Yes.

 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  That is the second time I have played him
and first time I beat him on clay, so it doesn't matter what surface
I play him on.  I feel comfortable from the back of the court.
 That is a long way to go, so...

 Q.  Do you think that you guys, you know, you, Pete, guys
 like that, have a chance against some of the clay court specialists
like, you know, Muster and Bruguera and some of them?

 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I mean, I haven't played a clay court match
in over nine months so, I mean, it is going to be difficult for
me. My first tournament is Monte Carlo, but I mean, for someone
like Pete on his given day, no matter what surface he plays on,
he can beat anyone, even Muster and Bruguera even on their favorite
surface, so, you know, he has got the game to beat anyone on anything.


 Q.  Since you can hit a golf ball 360 yards, have you ever
considered maybe playing professional tennis for a while and then
playing professional golf?  There have been guys that have done
that.  What is your handicap in golf?

 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I don't know.  I played 27 like three months
ago; now I am down to 18.

 Q.  Working with Nick, do you have sort of a specific plan
for the year, things that you are going to emphasize; things that
you are not going to worry about so much?  What is the focus with
that coaching relationship with him, in particular?

 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I mean, the main thing is we are just going
to go out there and have fun.  We are going do work on my game
and not worry about anything else the way they play; just play
my own game and whenever I get out on the court not worry about
what I am playing to change my game plan for  everyone.  I am
just working on my game and every time I get out there I know
what I am going to do and I am going to could that every single
time I am out there.  So just work on my all-around game.

 Q.  Does he emphasize your strengths or are you trying to
improve other areas of your game that you think need improvement?

 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, like I said, am working on everything
- even my strengths and things that I am not doing well at the
moment, so pretty much work on everything.

 Q.  What do you think the things are that you are not doing
as well as you like to?

 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I think I have just lost a bit of rhythm
on the serve, but I think that is just a small thing.  I am sure
I will get it back in a match or practice session, just get out
there and serve for a half an hour.  Might not be a problem at
all.  Main thing was my movement and I was in Florida for two
weeks and I have been doing full work drills every single day
for two weeks, and, you know, I feel pretty good on the court
at the moment.  I think improving well.

 Q.  Mark, when you are not playing, do you watch much tennis,
men's or women's?

 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No.  I don't like to watch tennis at all
after I am finished.  I just get out on the court and I do what
I have to do and once I am finished, I just want to  relax on
other things; not worry about tennis.

 Q.  The few times that you do watch tennis, do you prefer
to watch the men's game or the women's game?

 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, like I said, any match, if it is going
to be -- if I think that it is going to be a good match I will
watch anything.  Like if I watch like a Sampras or Ivanisevic,
I will sit down and watch that on TV, or I will gladly watch a
Seles to play against Graf or someone like Capriati again, where
she is coming back, matches like that I think are fun to match.


 Q.  But you don't have any preference as to watching either
the men's tennis or women's tennis?

 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No, like I said, I don't really watch anything
when I am finish.

 Q.  Do you watch any sports?

 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I love watching basketball and golf.

 Q.  Who are you picking to win the NCAA tournament?

 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I got no idea who is going to win that.
 I just like watching the games.

 JOE LYNCH:  Anything else?  Thank you.

 End of FastScripts........            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT