U.S. OPEN
September 3, 1995
Mark Philippoussis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Before you came into this tournament you said you were looking at the draw and when
you thought that you might meet Pete Sampras in the third round you were pretty excited.
Did you enjoy yourself out there today?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Yeah, I really enjoyed myself out there. Very pleased the way I
played and the way I handled myself. A bit unfortunate I had my chances, but really happy
with the way it went.

Q. What do you think the difference was why he won and you didn't?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Probably experience, and Pete had served really great couple of
games, served pretty bad couple doublefaults, three doublefaults. That is how I got into
the third set when I was down, but he served well towards the end.

Q. How did you get hooked up with Nick? How did that start. How does Nick get along
with your dad?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Well, I went to his camp, like, three years ago on a scholarship
for two weeks and since like a year ago talked to him, rang him up at the camp and give me
some ideas and couple of pointers depending on what I am playing and things like that.
But, you know, they both get along pretty well. My dad gets pretty excited on the side of
the court and he is pretty calm, so it is a good combination.

Q. You won that first set. How did you feel then?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I was happy to win the first, but I didn't want to get too excited
because there is another two to go to win, so I didn't want to relax too much or get too
excited. I am just happy I played a good set.

Q. Was it pretty hard to control the adrenaline when you were hitting the ball so hard
to pull yourself back maybe and play a --

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: That is my problem at the moment, that is why even on important
points I tend to go for my shots and my serves and my forehand and I went for too much
sometimes, but that is probably why I won some matches and some matches and lost.

Q. Will you get a little excited later this evening even though you lost when you start
to think about how close you came; maybe do things a lot better? 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: You know, I can't think about it. I have to look at the tape, see
what I did wrong and what I did right. I can't think about if I did that and what if I did
this.

Q. Did you feel you were playing at a higher level in that first set considering the
opposition than you played before?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I felt like I was playing with more consistency, more toughness. I
didn't give him too much. I didn't serve. I didn't get a lot of first serves in at the
start, but I served my second serve very well, I thought, and, you know, I thought I was a
lot more consistent in the first set.

Q. Did you find it a similar match to the Edberg match at the Australian Open or was it
very, very different?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: It was different. I mean, Edberg got that kicker serve and volley
and serve and volleys first and second serve he will be chip and charging on me. With
Pete, he can do both. He can. But he serves huge. He can serve and volley. He can stay
back, hit hard and chip and charge to put you under pressure. I think, towards the end, he
chipped and charged well and put some pressure on me.

Q. Do you think you are a much better player than you were against Edberg?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I feel like I am a much more mature player and experienced player
since.

Q. Obviously that was serious business, but were you enjoying yourself during that
match?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Definitely. I mean, you got to enjoy yourself. This center court is
like nothing else in the world, it is huge. And when they have got the crowds going -- it
is a bit of a crowd there, and, you know, the shouting and really, you know, rings in your
ear drums, so it was good.

Q. I think there are many Americans with Greek origin. Do you think they had a hard
time not knowing whom to support since you are both having this in common?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: We are in America and Pete is American and, you know, as soon as I
got inside I knew who they were going to support. I had to forget that. It doesn't worry
me too much. I am just playing my own game.

Q. Obviously you guys played a lot of points. Do any stand out right now? I am
thinking, of course, of when you were one point away from 6-6 in the second set. But do
any jump out at you as really important?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I mean, when I did -- in the second and third I broke down both
sets, couple of breaks down in the third; I got back and got 6-5 down and the first one
where I went with a wild forehand down the line, which I should have maybe just got that
in and came in and passed me if it got to the tiebreaker, wouldn't know what would happen.
- But in that third set I mean, he chipped and charged me. I think it was on the deuce
court three times in a row and put the volley away and he just applied the pressure when
he had to.

Q. Did he prove to be a real champion by taking the breaks when he needed them two
times, 7-5?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Yeah, I mean, that just shows the champions - if you give them an
inch, they will take that. If you give them a chance; you stay back, they will put the
pressure on you; come in and that is why.

Q. Did you give yourself much of a chance of winning going into it?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Yeah, you know, I prepared well. I thought yesterday I was really
looking forward to this match and, you know, I definitely gave myself the chance because
if you go in the match like that thinking that you are just going out there for fun and
can really -- it is not worth going in not if you don't give yourself a chance at all. I
definitely thought I could win if I play well; that is what I got to be thinking going in.

Q. Did you feel after the third set Pete raise his game one notch higher?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Yeah, I think. Like I said, I had a bit of unforced errors. He got
to a next level and played like that -- got to a next level, when other players stay the
same; that is why he is there and I think, you know, that is -- puts a bit of pressure on
me because I know if I do give him anything, you know, he will just keep on going and I
will be behind.

Q. You said last year your aim was to get in the top 100 this year. You have done that.
What is your immediate goal?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: That what is my goal -- I am happy that I achieved that. The year
is not over with yet. I think I might -- I am capable of getting much more than top 100,
but I don't want to push myself too much. You know, when I do finish this year then I will
have another goal for myself and start of next year I will take a tournament at a time.

Q. What do you need to improve in your game?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: You know, I think I just got to get more consistent. I think I have
got the shots, but I got to know when to use them; how to use them and get a lot more
tougher on the court and a lot more mentally tougher and just concentrate a bit more
better...

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT