U.S. OPEN
September 1, 1995
Mark Philippoussis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Can you tell us how you are enjoying it so far?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: You know, it is my first time in playing the U.S. Open. I played
qualies last year. First time I am in the main draw. Just I -- just love being out there,
the feeling, the crowd cheering, and it is just a great atmosphere compared to the other
Grand Slams, I think. 
 
Q. Like it even more than the Australian?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I am from Australia Melbourne. I do have a lot of people there
behind me, but, you know, people here are very fair. They respond just as good with a good
shot of mine as if an American hits a good shot. The crowd has been really good. 
 
Q. Where are you staying; are you staying in the city?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: U.N. Plaza. 
 
Q. How does it strike you, the atmosphere, people always come in and talk about the
noise and the moving and how wild it is. Is it as wild as you expected it or actually less
crazy than you expected it?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Just as soon as you walk out there, you can -- the people are
everywhere; rushing here, rushing there, can't hardly get through to get to your practice
court. And, you know, airplanes aren't coming over like they did last year, but they are
still pretty noisy. 
 
Q. Do you enjoy that or do you find it distracting to your tennis?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: No, I enjoy it. It doesn't worry me. 
 
Q. How do you feel about your game at this point here, and how have you been playing?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I am very pleased the way I have been playing. Most important thing
is that I haven't lost a service game, and that is what I like. If I am holding my serve
easy, then I am naturally going to get into -- my returning can be better. I am not going
to have as much pressure on me because I am holding so easily and I can try different
things on his serve, that is really good. 
 
Q. Do you have any expectations for this tournament or are you here to sort of
experience however it goes?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I saw my draw. I saw that Sampras was third round. My goal for this
was try to get to the third round and play him. And for me, the reason playing is to play
guys like that, just to see how you do and just to -- point out to myself -- to prove
something to myself that I am capable of playing people like him. I am just happy. I hope
he wins for me to play him. I will give it my best shot and see what happens. 
 
Q. You have never played him before?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: No. 
 
Q. Who is the highest ranked player you have played against?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Probably would have been Chang. 
 
Q. You almost want to play him sort of to get a sense of your game; how far you have to
go or is it more just to see how he carries himself?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Well, no, because in myself, I do believe that if I play well, it
doesn't matter who I play. If I play well, then I think I am capable of beating the top
players. You know, it is just a different thing if I play someone like that, I just get to
a different level myself, and I enjoy it much more being out there playing against someone
like that who is on the other side. Like I said, there is no pressure on me. Maybe a bit
more on him. 
 
Q. Who is more popular in Australia Sampras or Agassi? Do you think?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Well, I haven't been to Australia for a while. I mean, Sampras --
Melbourne is like the second greatest in Greek population in the world besides Athens and
having the Greek background, he is pretty huge; a lot of great fans come over to watch
him. He is pretty big, but then again, Agassi, all the girls know him pretty well. 
 
Q. Why do you think Australia has not produced a top player since the time of Newcombe
and Roche?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: You know, I can't say why they haven't. That is hard to say
because, you know, we have had some good players. Pat Cash was a great player;
unfortunately, he tore his Achilles and tried to make a comeback, but I think it is too
late. He was a great player; definitely probably one of the best on grass you will see
since Laver and, you know, all those, Roche and Newcombe. You know, we have got Patrick
Rafter. He is doing well at the moment. He has gone down the rankings, but he is moving up
again and if he plays well, then he is very hard to beat. Definitely one of the top
players on his day, you know, like Jason Stoltenberg, he had a great summer last year, a
lot of pressure on him to come back and have another good summer like that, but his
ranking has dropped, but he beat Krickstein five sets which was-- he was very happy to
beat a player like that. All it is is confidence with the Australia players, I think. Just
having a good win and naturally will roll on to the next round. 
 
Q. Do you have much time or chance to talk with Laver at all or any of the older guys?
I am under the impression that they try and keep their hands in with the younger
Australian guys?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Yeah, the good thing is about Australians, we are pretty much very
close between -- we are very close on and off the court too. We do a lot of things off the
court. Guys like that, like Laver, do get pretty close even with the older guys. They give
a lot of tips and even hit with them; get on the court and work out with them; do drills
with them; just go out and hit with them. Everything is very close.  
 
Q. Who is your hero in tennis if there is one?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Growing up it would be Boris Becker. Just he has big power game,
serve and volley, staying back, and, you know,, but, you know, seeing Sampras come along
and his background just his game, the way he plays, I admire him too. 
 
Q. It is your first year, do you come in thinking I am just going to soak up experience
or get to the third round or whatever or do you actually as a tennis player say, what the
hell, I may be able to win this thing first time player; really not even thinking about
that or do you actually say, it could happen?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I do think about that. At the start of the year, this being my
first full year on the Tour, at the start of the year just trying to get confidence, that
is the most important thing and all of a sudden, you know, I was losing first rounds in
qualies in a lot of tournaments then I qualied and made the final in Scottsdale and, you
know, after a tournament like that, everything just started rolling. I think would have
started -- playing Edberg at the Australian Open first round, that gave me a lot of
confidence and a bit of experience too playing on that Center Court in front of the crowd
and a great champion against Stefan. At the start, I thought it was just about experience,
but as I get on now, I think I got a bit of experience behind me; not as much as the other
players, but I am really trying to win some matches and give it my best in the
tournaments. 
 
Q. How old are you now?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: 18. 
 
Q. Look at Sampras as an example in 1990, he was in some ways highly regarded and he,
boom, exploded - he was 19 at the time - here. Do you take that as an example or do you
figure your game is a little bit perhaps behind his?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Well, you definitely take an example like that. I mean, he won the
U.S. Open when he was 19. Becker won Wimbledon when he was 17. Chang won the French when
he was 17. All those guys, just the champions made it from 17 and I mean, those guys, you
know, are maybe one in a million, someone is going to win a Grand Slam from that age, you
know, that just shows that they are going to become champions and they are still up there
now, but, you know, it is hard to say, you know, like I said, I'd like to think that I do
have a good game on my day, but, you know, I wasn't too sure. I didn't watch -- I wasn't
really that much interested. 
 
Q. Who is your coach? 
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I started from the U.S. Open, Nick Bollettieri. My dad has all been
with me travelling and Tony Roche and John Newcombe are with me. They have always had
something to do with me and still now even though I have Nick with me, always like to go
to Tony and John and get advice from them. 
 
Q. When did you start with Nick?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: This U.S. Open. I have always -- we always kept in touch, but Nick
told me nothing could be done now that I am with Boris. Now he stopped with Boris; he has
got more time. 
 
End of FastScripts....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT