THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 19, 1995
Mark Philippoussis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How difficult was that?

 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  How difficult was that? I thought I concentrated
really well today.  I kept my calm on the court, both sets.  But
like I said, I just went out there and played my game and, you
know, everything was -- it was just a good day for me.

 Q.  Had you seen him play before?  Did you know anything about
him?

 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, I have seen him play before.  I know
he is a great doubles player and you know, some people told me
a few things about him, what he does.

 Q.  Were you happy just staying back all the time?  You didn't
come in very much.  Is that basically your game to stay back on
these courts?

 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, I mean, that is what I will do at
the start, because I just feel confident at the back at the moment
and I think there is no reason to come to the net.  But I feel
like if I am getting killed back there and there is no other way
I am going to beat that person; then I am going to change my game
plan and come in.  At the moment it is good.

 Q.  It is working?

 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah.

 Q.  You don't show so much emotion, but how excited are you
the way things are going at the moment?

 MARK PHILIPOUSSIS:  I am very excited.  I am happy with the way
things are going.  I don't like to get too emotional on the court,
you know, no reason to -- I mean, I am pretty pumped up inside.
 If I do show too much emotion, I will just tire myself out before
I even finish the match, so -- but I just want to keep calm on
the court and concentrate.  I think that is even better for my
tennis.

 Q.  Did you consider yourself a pretty fearless person?

 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Fearless person?

 Q.  Yeah, mowing all these people down.

 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  You know, well, that is just probably how
I have built my game up since I was young, hitting the ball hard.
 I love being down in that tight situation and, I mean, if I have
got a second serve I will go for it; simple as that.  That is
how I am.  That is what I will do.  And if it pays off it feels
great.  But if it doesn't, I feel a little stupid.

 Q.  Is there anybody that you admire that way; is that why
you padded yourself --

 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  When I was young I admired Boris Becker.
 I think that I suppose he'd do that a bit.  If he is down, I
suppose he goes for a lot on the second.  I just love his big
power from the back power game and serve and volley.  Now seeing
Pete Sampras come up and seeing his game.  That is who I am trying
to mold my game like his.

 Q.  Goran Ivanisevic, some might say your game is like Goran
Ivanisevic.  What do you think of that comparison?

 MARK PHILIPOUSSIS:  I don't think that.  You know, I completely
forgot about him.  I wouldn't think that I would be anything the
same as him.

 Q.  He will go for anything in any situation.

 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, I don't know, does he?

 Q.  Are you enjoying all the attention that you have been
getting over the last couple of weeks?

 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah.  I like it.  Of course I like the
attention.  It makes me feel good -- yeah.

 End of FastScripts            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT