THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 17, 1995
Mark Philippoussis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Mark, this is your first match since reaching the final
in Scottsdale. How did you feel going out on court today?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Well, I mean, I still felt confident. Still
from Arizona I was feeling great out there and I think I am hitting
the ball just as well as I was in Arizona.

Q. What about when you were down, how did you feel after the
first set? Did you try and do something different or did you just
keep hitting?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Well, no, I was missing a lot in the first
set and, you know, I just thought, you know, the only reason I
lost that first set because I missed a lot. I just kept on playing
my game and I think I rallied a little bit more. But I started
to get my timing a bit move on my groundstrokes and I started
to feel very confident, but I was hitting the ball really great,
I thought, and it felt really good and I got to the tiebreaker
and I just hit it out and he missed a couple of backhands and,
you know, that was it.

Q. Mark, do you have any thoughts on Wayne Ferreira?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I think I play Paul Haarhuis. I mean, you
know, I don't think it will matter who I play. I will just go
out there and I won't change my game for anyone. I will just play
my game. If I think that I am playing really well then I will
feel great, I will feel pretty confident; as I said, I will just
go out there and play my game.

Q. What are your expectations coming into this tournament the
way you have been playing?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Well, you know, I was expecting to do well,
but I'm still trying to get a lot of experience on the Tour still,
just -- I thought I'd just go out there and give it my 100%. The
way I played, I am definitely going to have a lot of days where
nothing will go in probably and I will just, you know, get killed
out there, but, you know, I am not worried about that. I will
just keep going out there and playing my game. I felt pretty confident
coming into this tournament, so...

Q. How important was this match for you confidence-wise having
done so well two weeks ago and then to come out again?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: It is always good to get that first match
out of the way. I think it is very important for me. Each time
I win a match, I think I will -- I just get more confident and
more confident by each match I go on and I just feel better out
there and more -- I don't want to get too excited on the court
or get too pumped up. I just want to stay focused and I don't
want to tire myself out by getting too pumped up or frustrated
so I just keep calm.

Q. Of the many Australian players that are here, which of them
is having the greatest influence on you in terms of advising you
on how to stay calm or comport yourself on the court and so forth
and so on?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: All the Australian players are great. We are
very close. We talk a lot. We go out a lot and before we play,
if someone has played that person they will just go up to him
and tell him I have played him, he does this or he should do that,
or he has played him, go and ask him. But I think on the court
we try and pump each other up and calm each other and give some
pointers here and there. But I think Patrick helps me -- well,
you know, just -- he will just say, you got to get that forehand
volley a bit earlier; taking it a bit back or good hitting, that
is the way I hit it, that is better do this -- you know, just
things like that, it is always good to have, you know, have these
sort of players doing that. It feels good.

Q. Who did you speak to -- did you speak to any of them before
this match?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Well, yeah, like Patrick said, you know, how
-- probably dodge your forehand and his backhand will be a bit
stronger than his forehand or he has got a weak second serve try
and get around it. Woodforde, Stoltenberg said they all know him;
they all had the same advice for me.

Q. You said a couple of days ago you couldn't wait to get home
to Australia; you have a lot of friends back there. Do you need
to learn that it is important for you to stay on the road a long
time as you will have to without worrying about "how soon
do I get back," you know, I want to see my friends in order
to get your mental state right for professional tennis?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I mean, I always -- I mean, I always concentrate
when I am out on the court and when I am at tournaments. When
I am at tournaments I never think about when I am going to get
home. Only reason I said that because I found out that I will
be going home after this and I am excited. It is different if
I think I am coming home in two months, but I had no idea I was
going back until, maybe, a week ago or where they wanted me to
stay up here and train, but my father ended up saying it is better
for me to go back and looking forward to go home and get excited,
but I don't normally look ahead too much or think about that I
have to go home or get homesick or anything like that.

Q. How has it been dealing with all the attention that you
are getting?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Well, it makes me feel -- I feel good when
I know that I am getting a lot of attention at home or I ring
up my sister or mom and they tell me this has been in the newspaper
there or been in a magazine there been; talking about you have
been on the news something like that. It makes me feel good. It
just makes you feel good, you know, that is it.

GREG SHARKO: Anything else.

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Thanks.

End of FastScripts....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT