WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2004
Mark Philippoussis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Good afternoon.  Questions for Mark Philippoussis, please.  
 
 
Q.  Another step up from the other day.  You must be pleased with the progress. 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah, I'm pleased with the way I battled out there.  You know, the first match, I was always up.  I was, you know, always up in both sets.  You know, I maintained that, it was easy to crews.  Today I came from behind at tough stages and fought through that and played those, you know, big points well, which I'm happy about.  A bit of a slow start, came out a little cold.  He just came out serving bombs.  You know, I had to just try and relax and just get myself, you know, pumped to try and, you know, break his routine of just serving bombs side to side.  Just tried to mix it up.  I'm happy with the way it went. 
 
Q.  What is it about this place that when you come through the gates you almost seem to restore, whatever has gone wrong with you, seems to be fixed when you come here?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  As I said in my last interview, if I'm not pumped or ready for this tournament, then I know it's time to retire.  This tournament is a very special tournament for me.  Just, as you said, walking through the gates gets you motivated, gets me excited, you know, gets butterflies in the stomach.  There's a lot of history and prestige in this tournament.  I just love being out there on the grass.  I love the atmosphere.  You know, great support by the Aussies out here.  A lot of Aussies.  That's what it's all about.  
 
Q.  What do you need to do better to sort of make a real impression here in the next eight or nine days? 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I'm just, you know, going along with what I have to do, not worrying about everyone else, not worrying about if they're worrying about me or talking about me.  As I said from the start, I'm going to worry about once I get on that court, focusing on that match.  And today I focused on today, what I had to do to get through.  And tomorrow I'll think about that match.  You know, every match is a little better.  You know, I don't think anybody expects, or I wouldn't even like to be playing my best tennis at the start.  You know, everyone builds up as the tournament goes on, especially in Grand Slams.  So, you know, today was a little better than the first day.  Hopefully tomorrow I can step it up a little more. 
 
Q.  Do you think people have been talking about you, do you think that they've been saying your struggling or various other things?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I'm sure they've said I've been struggling, because the results have shown, you know, I haven't won a lot of matches in the past.  But the great thing about it is, for myself, I don't dwell on that.  I don't think about, you know, I've lost seven, eight first rounds this year.  Obviously, hasn't been a great start.  But then again, I haven't been there for my matches - mentally anyway.  I've been there physically, but mentally I haven't been there.  So, you know, I could honestly say I'm pretty relaxed.  So I haven't played a lot of matches.  Definitely got a lot in me. 
 
Q.  Why haven't you been mentally there in the other matches?  What has been on your mind?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Just happens to everyone.  With what happened at the start of the year.  It was a tough start of the year.  I think for anyone, if you would say that it wouldn't affect you, then you're lying.  I tried to keep it in me, like I do always.  It wasn't the right thing to do.  And I suffered for that, you know.  Mentally, I just wasn't there, didn't care about things for a while.  But, you know, that focus and determination is back.  I'm just looking forward to just playing some good tennis here.  
 
Q.  How did you let it out then?  If you kept it within, what did you do to bring it out?  Did you start talking to people more?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  The people I would talk to is my family and my close friends.  That's the only thing I would do. 
 
Q.  Did you, about the things that had been bothering you, talk to your dad?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  A little.  A little.  A little to my friends.  Not too much.  But I just dealt with it, you know, in my own way.  Now I'm just ready to get on.  You know, all I want to do is just play tennis and just enjoy myself.  That's why it's just frustrating to have that other part, you know, that's frustrating.  All I want to do is go out there and just play tennis, you know. 
 
Q.  How do you feel when people draw the correlation between your form and your personal relationships, especially with Delta? 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, how would you feel?  Do you think it's right?  
 
Q.  Well, I don't know.  I'm not you. 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Do you think it's right as a person, as a journalist?  Do you think it's right?  
 
Q.  For people to draw that correlation?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yes.  
 
Q.  I don't know.  I think people who watch you play more regularly than I do, might think there is a correlation there.  I don't know because I don't know you personally.  I assume it would be a difficult thing for you to deal with. 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  You know, I'm a professional athlete.  If people have something to say, they should say it about my tennis.  That's what they should talk to.  They should blame my tennis, you know, not anything in my personal life.  I think, you know, it's rude.  I think it definitely shows there's no class there.  I have no problem if people talk about my tennis, that's fine, that's what it's all about.  I take it on the chin, try and improve, try to do what's right.  But, you know, I think people should keep away from personal things.  
 
Q.  How much do you draw on previous experiences at Wimbledon?  Obviously it spurs you along somewhere along the line. 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah, it just shows that I just love being here.  I love the atmosphere, obviously.  Looking back at the results, history, consistently this has been my best tournament, you know, the quarterfinals, the final here.  It shows that every time I come up here, I'm up for it.  No matter, you know, going into this tournament, if I haven't had the great preparation, but I try and do what I can on the two practice weeks before that, try and get myself ready for this.  
 
Q.  Serena adopted the British football team.  She was a bit upset when they were beaten.  Have you gone that far, being an Aussie?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  About the English soccer team?  
 
Q.  Yes. 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  It was tough watching, but I wouldn't say I adopted them, no.  I'm Australian.  But I tell you what, that Greek blood in me, I'm going for Greece tonight.  Definitely looking for that. 
 
Q.  Is that lack of expectation something you could be fairly positive about because it may be taking a bit of pressure off you?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  What is?  
 
Q.  The lack of expectation for you this year. 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Oh, yeah.  It definitely has its benefits, for sure.  A lot of the time, people sneaking through.  An example of Tim at the French.  I doubt very much anyone was talking about him.  He sneaks through, gets to the semis.  I'll tell you what, had a good chance.  Who knows what would have happened if he got to the final.  Went along doing his thing, as I am.  I'm taking each day as it comes.  Thinking about today's match, got through that.  Tomorrow, when I get out there, I'll try to do whatever I can do to get through tomorrow. 
 
Q.  Has that been the toughest five or six months of your career, apart from the injury time?  When you've been playing, has there been a harder stretch you've had to go through?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  There's been, you know, difficult stretches in my career, definitely.  It's just another tough stretch that I went through.  Just something that's going to make me stronger in the future. 
 
Q.  Would you say you're at a point now where that's totally behind you?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Definitely.  Definitely is behind me.  
 
Q.  The stuff you alluded to earlier, the Aussie Open, Davis Cup, is that all now in the past, not affecting you at all now? 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No, I think whenever it's brought up, it's because you guys bring it up every time.  I'm definitely not talking about it.  I've definitely forgotten about it.  Maybe you guys should, too.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT