AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2004
Mark Philippoussis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  First question, please. 


Q.  Happy to get through reasonably comfortably?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah, I'm definitely happy to get through in straight sets.  I was happy the way I played the whole match.  During the second set I ran really hard and got on a streak.  It's very easy to lose concentration when you're playing that high standard.  I played for like 40 minutes real high standard.  I just didn't want to lose concentration.  I just wanted to try and maintain just positive thoughts that I had during the whole match and try and stay solid.  You know, he broke me in the third.  But the couple loose points, volley and a double-fault, besides that he picked my serve and hit two clean winners.  Not much I could do about that; was just too good. 

Q.  When you saw the draw, getting a former champion in the first round, do you expect a tough match?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Of course.  There's no easy matches.  As I said on the court, even though he's coming from injury, he's too good a player, too talented not to be dangerous.  So I knew I had a tough one ahead of me, and it was very important for me to concentrate on my game and to try and play a solid match. 

Q.  You play Santoro in the next round.  Is he a difficult matchup for you? 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  He's a tough player because he's very unorthodox, not your typical player.  But, you know, I've played him a few times.  I know what he's gonna do.  He's the kind of guy that can hit any shot because he's got two hands on both sides.  You don't know if he's gonna go over the ball, hit a dropshot or hit an angle. Again, playing someone like that, I think it's important to know what he's gonna do, but then to worry about my own game and to concentrate on that. 

Q.  Do you feel with your performance here in the Davis Cup, winning here tonight, that you're in the kind of form that could see you threaten?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I'd have to say yes.  There's no reason why.  Definitely don't want to look too far ahead.  I'm very happy the way I played today.  Tomorrow I'm going to have a light and easy day and then try and come out relaxed but confident for my match against Santoro on Thursday. 

Q.  How will you spend the day tomorrow? 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I've got a practice court in the afternoon.  Long massage after that.  Just pretty much just taking it easy. 

Q.  I heard there was a member of your support group who had some problems.  Do you know anything about that?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah, my cousin had a heart attack in the toilets, and fortunately there was a doctor with him.  There was a doctor, happened to be in  the toilet at the same time.  He's unconscious at the moment, but I hope, you know, I hope he recovers really quickly and I hope everything's okay. 

Q.  Can you tell us his name or...? 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  His name's David. 

Q.  Is his surname Philippoussis?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No, no. 

Q.  Could we ask David's surname. 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Sorry.  I just prefer to say David. 

Q.  Did you not know until after the match? 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah, because I looked up there, and I saw my sister wasn't there, so I didn't really know what was going on.  I just wanted to concentrate on my match.  And I was told soon as we got off the court. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT