adidas International
January 15, 2004
Mark Philippoussis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Please go ahead for Mark.  
 
 
Q.  How do you feel your game is going into the Aussie Open?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Leading into the Aussie Open? 
 
Q.   Yes.
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I'm a little frustrated with my match tonight.  I came out a little flat.  I was trying to play myself into the match.  With a guy coming out swinging like that, you know, took full advantage of it.  You know, I've played two good matches here, and not a good one tonight.  But, you know, I'm very positive going into the Australian Open.  I'm feeling good physically.  I was out there, could have played some more sets.  Nothing to put my head down.  Got the big one coming up next week.  
 
Q.  What would it mean, the Australian Open  - home crowd, home soil  - to win it? 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, looking at that, it's a long way away.  But, obviously, it would be definitely the biggest thing in my career in a different feeling, because that feeling in Melbourne, winning the Davis Cup, was incredible.  It's tough to think that someone can surpass that.  But, you know, then again, winning a Grand Slam is a better individual kind of accomplishment.  It will be an incredible feeling in itself.   But definitely way too far away to talk about anything like that.  
 
Q.  So you're frustrated tonight because you really feel like...? 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, I just felt like I wasn't there mentally.  I mean, if you just look at my shot selections, you know, I was just slapping my forehands.  You know, there's a list I can go through tonight if you want (smiling). But, I mean, I was just frustrated, the shots I was playing.  Especially the set point says it all.  I had a good point set up.  Instead of working the ball cross-court trying to get a short one, instead of taking two shots, I planted my feet early, slapped a forehand.  My shot selection in the tiebreaker, played the point well.  Went for a hard shot down the line where I should have  -- you know, was this low off the ground instead of working cross-court.  You know, the ball wasn't there to hit.  Then a dropshot that shouldn't have been played.  Things like that.  Just I'd prefer to get them out of the way here at this tournament than play those shots in the Australian Open.  You know, I've got things to work on on Saturday.  I'm going to take a day off tomorrow and work on it Saturday with Wally and my dad.   Like I said, nothing to put your head down.  Obviously it's disappointing, but the bigger picture is ahead of me. 
 
Q.  That was because of the intensity (inaudible)? 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I was feeling good and relaxed.  Things were going great.  Like I said, I played two good matches.  Practice sessions have been good, I've been relaxed.  For me, that's important.  Maybe I went into that match a little too relaxed.  Like I said, against a player like Martin, who comes out swinging the ball, who could hit the lines or mis-hit them anywhere, you know, he came out firing, so he took advantage of that.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT