adidas International
January 14, 2004
Mark Philippoussis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Please go ahead for Mark Philippoussis. 
 
 
Q.  Difficult conditions today, Mark? 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  They were.  His second serve was  -- had a lot of spin on it.  It was just swirling around everywhere.  It was definitely difficult to get on top of him.  So it was tough out there, yeah. 
 
Q.  What about for your own serve?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I was  -- had a little bit of trouble on my ball toss, but I think mainly it's because I rushed it, especially in the second set.  I was on top of him, and I kind of just rushed.  Lost two back-to-back service games to love.  I think my percentages dropped, and just also lost concentration, too. 
 
Q.  Obviously, you'd like to win in straight sets, but is three sets a good workout as well? 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yes.  Obviously, like you said, it would be nice to win in straight and get off the court.  But it's good to win matches like that and, you know, in tight situations, to prepare myself mentally also for all those matches in the Australian Open.  
 
Q.  Do you think that win you got over Ferrero contributed to your ability to win in those tight situations like you have in the last couple matches?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  It can make or break you.  It can get you going on a roll, and it can do a lot for you  - even after a long break and coming back the next year.  So that definitely does have a play in the way you're feeling and, like I said, just setting you up for that next year, just knowing a tough match like that and winning in those conditions does put a lot of self-belief in you especially in moments like today, you know, in those tight situations.  
 
Q.  The situation you were in in the third set when you were down breakpoints and you had to get out of those, is that what you're talking about?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah, there's no need to panic.  Obviously, you're down breakpoints.  But I just wanted to go out there and think, "Okay, just worry about your first serve there."  Winning it with an ace was great.  I wasn't thinking I was down another breakpoint.  I just thought, "Okay, here's another serve.  Take your time, get the ball toss up, and get a good serve in."  Next thing you know, it's deuce.  For me, it was just important to take it a point at a time and just take my time, especially not rush.  And, you know, I got myself out of it, which was good. 
 
Q.  Are you surprised how well Greg played today? 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No, Greg's always a tough opponent.  I definitely knew I'd have to play a good, solid match to come up on top.  And, you know, he really plays in the up-and-down games.  He's pretty solid all the way through.  I think when he does sense a bit of lack of concentration, he takes advantage of that, which he did today. 
 
Q.  It was a pretty solid match, pretty good match. 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I agree.  It was a good, solid match.  I think especially, you know, the first set I was hitting the ball.  At 4-3 I played a good, solid game at 4-3 and held for the first set.  You know, took advantage of my loss of concentration and lack of first serves in the second set, you know, and got all over me.  In the third set it was a good match.  We definitely both had opportunities.  You know, some good tennis, I thought.  And, you know, I just  -- I think I was just happy the way I played that last game.  I just wanted to go out there and be aggressive and make him play.  And I thought I returned well today.  That definitely was a big part of the match. 
 
Q.  Three Aussie boys through to the quarters; maybe four tonight.  Good times for Australian tennis?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  It's awesome, I think.  Again, it shows everyone's still riding that wave of Davis Cup.  I think also the great thing is the crowd.  It felt good out there.  I mean, the crowd are really getting into it.  That's the whole point of playing on your home soil, you want the crowd on that side, you want it kind of feeling like a Davis Cup match.  They're starting to understand, as I said, that they do play a big role in matches.  
 
Q.  What are your thoughts on your next opponent?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Martin Verkerk is a tough player.  He's got a big game.  It's gonna be important for me to go out there, make sure he doesn't dictate play.  I think that's the way he likes to be, he likes to be in control.  He likes to play big, serve big.  He's got a big forehand, he's got a pretty good backhand, too.  I've practiced with him a fair bit.  Last time I played him was the Australian Open last year.  So I think mainly for me I just want to be aggressive, as I was today on the passing shots and the returns, and start just  try -- and just get on top of him early, keep the pressure on.  He's not gonna be coming in there like Greg was today.  He's gonna be staying on the back and hitting out on his ground strokes.  I'm going to try to keep the pressure on him. 
 
Q.  After the excitement of the Davis Cup and the fact that the team is obviously a close band of brothers, you find yourself back on the tour, you work your way through a tournament, you get to the semis and you have to play Lleyton, for example.  What kind of thinking do you have to take into that, or how do you have to change your attitude? 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, we're both professional.  Obviously, we're good friends and teammates.  But once you're on the court, you're on the court to play.  Obviously, we're there to win for both of us.  It's too far to look for myself and Lleyton.  We still got a match to play  - and a very difficult match at that.  But having said that, we're both professional and we know that once we get on the court, obviously we're there to win.  After we get off the court, we're friends again. 
 
Q.  You and Greg both have a big serve.  Greg has been coming back from injury.  It's only his fourth match back.  How much of an advantage  - you've had your own share of injuries  - how much of an advantage when you come back is it to have a big weapon like a serve? 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  For the amount of matches he's played since he's been back, I think he's hitting the ball very well.  Hopefully, he's pleased the way he's played.  I know for a fact it's difficult to come back from injury, and just trying to get that confidence back is very important.  Every win is extremely important, especially a big win, does get the confidence back and the adrenaline pumping again.  For not playing as many matches as he's had, I think he's hitting the ball pretty good. 
 
Q.  To have that serve as a weapon.
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  That serve is always huge.  It's always gonna give him plenty of points, free points, and definitely keep him in a lot of matches.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT