adidas International
January 13, 2004
Mark Philippoussis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  What were your thoughts at 2-love down in the third? 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Uhm, I was angry at myself for being in that position but, actually, at the end, happy that I was in that position.  The way I got out, I think the way I played to finish off the match, I should have played that way at the start.  You know, even though I was winning in the start, I was doing the right thing, I just was I think just letting him dictate the points from the start even though he was making some unforced errors.  I just wanted to  -- I think I should have just been hitting the ball  - especially my backhand  - a lot more, you know, being aggressive and keeping him on his back toes. 

Q.  How important was it just for the Australian Open lead-up to get through that game?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  It's important.  I'm not really the type of person to panic if I don't have any matches under my belt ahead of a tournament.  There's people who like to play matches when they get into a Grand Slam.  For me, it doesn't faze me.  Obviously, it would be great to come out here and play a great tournament; there's no doubt about that.  But I'm definitely happy that I won that match today, and I'm looking forward to playing tomorrow.

Q.  The crowd gave you enormous support from start to finish out there.  They're clearly delighted to see you.  How important do you think that sort of response is going to be in Melbourne?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  It's very important.  I think that's the reason why people love playing at home in front of their home crowd.  That's what, you know, that home crowd's all about.  It's supposed to get you through matches like that.  And they are starting to realize how important they are, especially in matches and in big-point situations.  The opponents definitely feel the pressure.  And they can sense that, especially when it gets in a tight situation, the crowd gets into it, and it's a very respectable, respectable crowd with good knowledge that know when it's a big point, that know when to get me up, and know when it could turn the match around.  It was great out there.

Q.  Obviously, it's all a continuation of the Davis Cup?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I think we're still all under a bit of a high from the Davis Cup still.  I'm still going that way, so it's good, yeah.

Q.  What was the main difference between today and last week in terms of how you feel?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I felt good out there.  It was a lot more humid here.  I put in the work this time.  I had the time to prepare for this match, and I was out there two hours a day with Todd and moving around, running around, and not feeling great at the end of the practice sessions, but that's what it's all about here.  Each practice session got better.  My movement got better.  I was happy the way I moved today.  I felt great out there.  So, again, tomorrow I'm looking forward to stepping it up and trying to start the match with where I finished off today.

Q.  The match-up with Greg tomorrow, how do you see it?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  It's going to be top fun, no doubt about that.  Obviously, I know exactly what his game is.  He's going to be serve and volleying pretty much first and second serve, chip and charging when he can, and getting to the net whenever possible.  So I'll be looking forward to that.  Just want to try and go out there, hit the ball solid, and really take it to him.

Q.  What's your history with Greg?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  We've played a few times.  Last time I played him I beat him.  I think it was in three tiebreakers so, you know...

Q.  3-2 down. 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  3-2 down, yeah.  Well, there you go, I'm 3-2 down.  Tomorrow's a new day.  Try to make it 3-all.

Q.  Chris is doing pretty well out there at the moment.  There's been parallels in the past drawn between his game and yours. 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I've hit with him a bit.  He's a big kid, so he should have a big game.  He should have a big serve, and he's got to be at the net whenever he can with that frame.  I think he's a mirror image of Wayne Arthurs, to be quite honest.  But I definitely thought he would be a tough match for Juan Carlos.  Guccy's got nothing to lose.  He's out here, the conditions are quick, the balls are bouncing up high.  He's serving from a tree up there, so...  I think he's going to be serving bombs all day.

Q.  Having to play Greg in his current situation, does that make it different in any shape or form?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  For me, no.  I'm going out there, it's a tennis match, I'm in a tournament, going out there and playing my game.  What happens off the court, I'm not really interested in.  I'm a tennis player, professional tennis player.  I'm just going to go out there and just do my job.

Q.  Do you know if it's a day or night match yet? 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I think it's fourth. 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Thanks, Iggy.

Q.  Have you played Rusedski on this surface before?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I have.  I played him in the Australian Open where he beat me a few years ago.  So, yeah, we've played on some different surfaces.

Q.  The shirt you were wearing today, the tie-dyed look, is that an indication of your surfing hobby?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  What is it? 

Q.  The tie-dyed shirt.

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Oh, yeah, it was different.  Definitely different.  I don't mind it, to be quite honest.  I'm actually relieved and glad I'm out of that red stuff.  I felt like I was in that thing for like 10 years (smiling).  So it's nice to have a bit of a change.  It's different material.  It's actually pretty comfortable, I must say.

Q.  But the look of it, the swirly look. 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah, kind of hippy, huh?  I don't know.  As long as  -- I think what we're trying to do is give my opponents headaches, to look at my shirt, try and get them feeling kind of weird, so... Hopefully, it's working.

Q.  Seems to be working.

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah (smiling).

Q.  Did you have any input on it?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No, no.  I got that sample a few months ago, and I knew it was coming.  I think it's nice.  It's a step in the right direction.  I think it's good to get  -- it's very important for the manufacturers to do something different and get young kids excited to wear tennis products, you know.  So I'm glad that they're doing it.  It's different from the normal thing. 

Q.  Back to the match again, you knocked off six games in a row today like you did on a different occasion against Ferrero.  Did you feel like you were in that zone again?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I just felt relaxed.  I did, finally, in the third set, feel like I was hitting the ball better.  I just took it a point at a time, just kept on being positive at each point, and just took it to him.  You know, didn't think about the score.  I was just happy, you know, "This is definitely feeling better, I'm hitting the ball better.  Keep going."  You do get on a roll, you do get in a bit of a zone.  That especially happens to me where I become very relaxed, I don't show emotion, all that.  I'm in my little zone.  It was good out there.

Q.  Do you have much sympathy for Greg's plight at the moment? 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  You know what, to be quite honest, I'm not looking  -- I have too many things to worry about in my life to look at anyone else.  Everyone's in charge of their own  -- everyone makes their own decisions, they're in charge of their own actions.  So you've got to face those consequences, whatever they are.  But, you know, he's still got his meeting or trial coming up to, you know ...  Innocent till proven guilty, I guess.  So, you know, it's all up to him. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT