TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 11, 2003
Mark Philippoussis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  So, Flip, how are you doing?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I'm good, I'm good.  It's good to be here.  Yeah, I'm looking forward to, you know, this week, getting some good training sessions underneath my belt.  Whether I play or not, just use this to get ready for the Davis Cup final.

Q.  Talk about the fact that you've reached  - granted, not direct-in but as an alternate  - the Tennis Masters Cup, the season-ending championship, for the first time.

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah, it was a good year.  I started off the year in the 80s, so...  I finished 9.   That's the first time for me, finishing in the Top 10.  It was a big step for me, very important.  It also made me realize that I don't think I had an incredible year.  When you think about it, it was pretty much, you know, besides, obviously, making the final of Wimbledon, it was only four tournaments which made my ranking.  That's pretty incredible thinking that there's so many tournaments out there.  Made me realize that I feel like I really had an average year this year and made the Top 10.  You know, who knows what can happen if I have a really good year, as long as I stay healthy.

Q.  What does it feel like being in the Top 10?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Uhm...

Q.  I mean, I would think that has been a goal.  But with all the hassles you've had with injuries and goodness knows what else  - you've had your fair share over the years  - it's robbed you of that chance to do it earlier. 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah, obviously, I've always felt, you know, I belong, you know, with the top guys.  I've never had a chance to prove it because, like I said, this year's my first year where I've had a full season for, I don't know, maybe four, five years.  I think it will make me realize now that I've got to step it up now.  I've got to take  -- be responsible for, I guess, a little more eyes being on top of me, the expectations being there.  Whereas this year, there were no expectations; I had nothing to lose.  Like I said, starting in the 80s.  Had my first full year, I had nothing to lose.  I was just excited to go out there and play again. Now, where I'm Top 10, the eyes will be on me, the expectations will be there.  But I want that now; whereas before, I don't think I wanted the expectations on me.  I think I'm ready for that.  I think that's going to make me play better; I honestly do.  So, you know, let's just see how it goes.   I'm training harder.  But, most important, I'm just enjoying the whole challenge.

Q.  A sign of being more mature as well?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I think so.  I turn 27 on Friday so, you know, I'm definitely mature (laughing).  But, yeah, like I said before, everyone matures differently, in different stages.  I was definitely a late maturer.  I've always liked to have a lot of fun; I still do.  But now I've learned to, you know, just to give myself some rules.  If you have fun, that's fine, but you're going to have to work hard.  When you work hard and you deserve that fun, it's a different story.

Q.  What about the fact that you're now the leading Australian player in the world?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Obviously, you know, that's nice.  I mean, you know, obviously, for years, eyes were always on, you know, Pat and Lleyton.  You know, those guys have been great, to see the way they've trained.  I definitely admired them, the way they carried themselves  - especially Lleyton, with the pressure on him and how young he was.  He's done an incredible job.  You know, for me, I'm not really thinking about, "Okay, I'm... whatever, I'm 9 or No. 1 in Australia."  For me, I'm just excited to come back.  I'm just looking forward to playing good tennis, and just keep playing solid tennis, and trying to achieve the things I'm capable of achieving. 

Q.  The fact that you're part of an elite group of players this week at the Tennis Masters Cup, how does that stimulate your motivation, your thoughts, your views, going into 2004? 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I think it's going to make me more motivated.  I think it's going to push me.  As I said, I think it's a positive thing, it's a great thing.  So that's something I'm looking forward to.  You know, obviously, I love to have fun.  Like I said, I love surfing.  So when I have my time, I'm going to go surfing.  But I've got to remember that a season is starting, I've got to get in top shape, and I've got to be ready to go from the start.  I've got to be ready to go from the first of January.  I've got to be physically tough and mentally tough.  And I think everything like that's gonna push me, so...

Q.  There's a chance you could still be playing if Nalbandian's wrist doesn't hold up.  Are you ready?  I would think, obviously eager and keen?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Whatever happens, I'm ready.  You know, I'll be here training hard.  If it happens I'll be playing a match, I'll be ready, I'll be happy to play a match.   I don't want to wish negative things upon anyone.  I hope no one gets hurt.  I want everyone to be healthy.  But if it happens for me to play, I'll definitely be healthy.

Q.  This is your last event before the Davis Cup final as well.  So I guess the fact that you're here among the other eight best players in the world, it is good training for the Davis Cup final?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  It's a great training.  Obviously, there's no better training than being on grass at the moment.  But, for me, I'm the type of guy, as long as I'm healthy, moving good, feeling good, hitting the balls, whether I go to another surface...   Of course I'll need some time to adapt.  But I'll get to Australia the latest next Wednesday.  That still leaves me, you know, 10 days to get ready.  And it's definitely  -- I'll definitely be ready for that match on Friday.

Q.  You're saying about a different surface, but the fact is you were a Wimbledon finalist on that surface.

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah, it's a different surface, but every time I step on that grass, hit the first ball, I feel very much at home.

Q.  Like riding a bike?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah.   So I've been working on my serve-and-volley rhythm with my dad in Florida.  And my returns, as long as, you know, that rhythm's there, you know, I'm going to be very confident. 

Q.  When you look at the field over here, the two groups, put yourself to one side, who would you see as coming through?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  You know what, there's one group that's pretty scary.  You've got Agassi...

Q.  Three Grand Slam champions. 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  You know, you've got Agassi, Ferrero, Federer and Nalbandian.  You know, that's a pretty scary section.  It's going to be very impressive to see someone come through there without having a loss.  I don't know if that's gonna happen.  It's got some impressive guys there.  So I think it's gonna be pretty close.  It's gonna come down to sets and games, you know how the Round Robin goes.  But I'll be very impressed if someone comes out with a win, you know, with three wins.  I think the same also for the other group.

Q.  You're not picking anybody?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I'm not.

Q.  I'm putting you on the spot.

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah, definitely.  I'm not picking anyone.  It's gonna be tough.  Obviously, Andre can come out, hit the ball incredible.  It's gonna be tough for him, he hasn't played a match in two months.  But then again, Andre doesn't need that much match play.  You've got Ferrero, obviously, hitting the ball great.  Federer.  Nalbandian is a question mark.  And on the other side you've got Roddick, who's the current No. 1 in the world.  You know, Schuettler, who's always a tough player, always going to be tough, never really has an off day, you know.  Always makes you beat him, you know.  You've got to earn a match out there.  And Coria, who's going to be a tough player, too.  He's definitely shown he can definitely play on the hard courts more than people would think.  And Moya, who everyone knows can be tough.  I mean, it's a pretty good field.

Q.  It's all eight?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah, yeah.  Pretty good field (laughing). 

Q.  All right, Mark, thanks a lot. 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Thanks. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT