TMS - MADRID
October 14, 2003
Mark Philippoussis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Mark.  
 
 
Q.  In the last set, he also had an opportunity of a break.  Do you think it's because of him being in Madrid?  Did it come down to the skills on the court? 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I mean, he played well today.  He served big.  You know, I didn't play too well.  It's a combination of both.  He took advantage of that.  Simple as that.  
 
Q.  Would you expect him to be in the Spanish Davis Cup squad for the final? 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I hope he is.  Hope he is.  Doesn't worry me.  
 
Q.  Why do you say that?  Why would you hope he is? 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I just think I got some nice fuel today to fuel the fire for the Davis Cup final.  Simple as that.  The reaction of the crowd, I just want to thank them for that reaction, because I'll be thinking about that when the final comes.  
 
Q.  Would you be surprised if he didn't play the final?  The Davis Cup?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I wouldn't care anyway, whether he does or not.  Really doesn't worry me. 
 
Q.  Usually, the possibilities of going to Houston are less now.  Do you expect to play as much as possible before the Davis Cup or what do you think? 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Of course.  I mean, obviously, it is a bit of a setback.  The points are still very tight.  To win one Masters Series, you know, that's a hundred points.  There's still plenty of points out there.  There's still two tournaments left.  
 
Q.  Looking back, the breakpoints you had in the first and I think seventh game of the final set, crucial moments for you? 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah.  You know, he served pretty big all match.  I guess I really think I should have been looking for that wide one, especially on the breakpoint.  He did it to me a couple of times actually in the second set to save breakpoint.  You know, I looked for it at 15-30.  He made a hell of a volley.  I should have been looking for it again.  But, you know, not much you can do now.  
 
Q.  How important is it to you, the Davis Cup this year?  Is it a compensation for not having won Wimbledon or is it another subject? 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  You know, obviously losing the final in Wimbledon is always going to be there in my mind.  It's always going to be tough.  Nothing can change that.  But Davis Cup is a big part of me.  Our goal this year is to win Davis Cup, simple as that.  Now we're in the final.  We're playing at home on grass.  We have the opportunity to do that.  That definitely is my priority.  You know, I think if we win that, it won't outweigh the final of Wimbledon, but it will definitely bring the end of the year to a good finish, that's for sure.  
 
Q.  The experience of a final in the Davis Cup, would you change such a match?  If you were in their place, would you change the team or would you leave it as it is right now? 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Would I give advice to the team for the final?  No.  It's their decision to make.  Whatever they make, obviously they're going to have to live with it.  You know, they've been in the Davis Cup finals before.  You know, they know what it's all about.  
 
Q.  We remember you playing very well in Nice on clay.  It was a year you were surprised by the Frenchmen.  Do you think this year it's more of a definite outcome, playing on grass?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Obviously, it's an advantage for Australia.  But it's nothing to take for granted.  
 
Q.  I believe Australia is the definite favorite for Davis Cup.  Do you think it's normal that Lleyton is missing at this tournament? 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  He also has a bit of an injury he has from the semifinal of Davis Cup.  So he's looking after that.  So obviously he doesn't want to do anything to injure that further.  You know, he'll take his time, obviously train.  Getting ready for the Davis Cup final is obviously a big priority of his.  
 
Q.  What do you think is particularly important about the Spanish team?  What is it that they have that's strong or weak? 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Obviously, they got good depth.  You know, you've got Ferrero, Moya, you know, Costa, you know, Corretja, Lopez, Nadal.  You've got some very tough Spanish players.  It definitely makes a strong team.  It's obviously shown this year through the Davis Cup.  So, you know, depending on how they handle the grass in Melbourne is another thing altogether.  
 
Q.  You've been through a lot.  You come through a lot in tennis.  At the same time you've realized there are other things, like your father's health.  What do you view as more important, your tennis, what you can achieve, or general health? 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Number one priority in my life has always been my family and their health and my health.  And, obviously, number two, my job is playing tennis.  So obviously I would like to fulfill the things that I think I'm capable of fulfilling, try and fulfill those dreams also.  You know, it's a combination of both.  But nothing comes in front of the family.  
 
Q.  You are doing other things, like getting up early to go surfing.  Now that you're sort of back full-time in tennis, are you still doing that extra activity?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah, of course.  Surfing is a big part of my life.  You know, obviously things are going well for me in tennis because I'm happy outside of my life.  You know, when I'm happy outside of my life, in my private life, I play good tennis.  It's as simple as that.  I'm a happy person.  I need to be happy to play well.  I'm not that kind of person for things to make me angry to play good tennis.  I like being relaxed, being happy.  Getting to where I am and working hard, there's no point now in changing what I'm going to do.  It's what has got me here.  I think something that relaxes me, takes me away from the pressure of tennis, things like that.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT