US OPEN
August 27, 2003
Mark Philippoussis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: First question for Mark. 


Q.  Nice way to ease into the tournament. 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah.  The first one is always the toughest.  You know, a lot of nerves.  So I haven't played too many matches this summer.  This is a good one to start off with, you know. 

Q.  How did you find him as an opponent?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  It was tough.  It's always tough playing someone that you've never played before.  You know, obviously he's got nothing to lose.  You know, you don't know where he likes to go on his big serve.  You don't know what his weaknesses or his strengths are.  For me, I just had to hang in there and play my game.  I lost a bit of concentration during that second and third set.  If there's ever a time to do it, I guess it's now.  Next time I have to try to cut those out, try to stay focused for the whole match.

Q.  Are you a player that likes to build your way into a tournament?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah, I think I'm like that.  I'm not the sort of guy that comes out blasting into the first match.  I do like to build into it.  I do feel each match I played, my rhythm gets a little better, whether it be on the serve or the groundstrokes, more confidence on the groundstrokes. 

Q.  Is there any difference in the atmosphere, something that makes you feel more comfortable, less comfortable?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I've always loved the US Open.  I love the atmosphere.  There's a lot more electricity in the air compared to other Grand Slams.  I think the New York crowd has a lot to do with it.  They're very vocal, very loud.  I enjoy playing in front of that.

Q.  Did you feel in total control out there?  If he broke you, you broke straight back. 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah.  I would have liked to have not dropped my serve, to be quite honest.  In a way, it's good to know when I was down a break, I fought back and won the set.  On the other hand, it's also a lot nicer when you're cruising and holding on to your serve, keeping the pressure on his serve.  As I said, I think it's something to think about, you know, for the practice tomorrow, you know, to take on to the next match.

Q.  John McEnroe said while commentating last night he felt it was unfair for the players who have to play their first round match on the Wednesday, because it means they have to win seven matches in 12 days to win the tournament.  What do you feel about playing on a Wednesday, so late in the tournament?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, I would have preferred to play on Tuesday.  That's the cards I've been dealt.  Other players, it happens the same thing.  You know, at the end of the two weeks, you know, if I'm too tired after seven matches, that's a good thing, I guess, because I'm there.  So it's nothing to complain about.  You know, you still get a break after every match if you go through.  You play every second day.  You know, it's happened before.

Q.  What about your knee situation, the surface.  Do you feel you're physically strong enough to go seven matches?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Definitely, I think I am.  I think people overlook the grass also.  They think it's kind of easy playing on the grass.  But actually it's very hard on the body.  It's not that same pounding as you get on the hard court, but because you're serve and volleying constantly, you're always coming to the net, you're having to bend and stretch.  I feel like it has more of an impact on your body, to be quite honest.  So I'd have to say I feel like I'm capable of playing seven matches if I have to.

Q.  There's been some serious discussion here about making this a 15-day event for the men, either starting on a Sunday or finishing on a Monday.  Do you think that's a good idea?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  You know, I wouldn't have anything against it.  I think the guys come out a few days early for the Grand Slam.  They're prepared to play, if they have to, on Sunday.  It's tough.  I guess you can look at it different ways. 

Q.  The idea was to avoid the Saturday/Sunday semifinal/final.  When you played here, did you feel fatigued the day of the final?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I definitely felt a little tired because I think I had that long quarterfinal, 7-6 in the fifth.  Then I played Moya.  You know, got a lot of adrenaline going into the matches.  I guess it's just been a tradition for so long.  I don't know if it's going to be tough to change.

Q.  What do you think about Anna Kournikova doing reporting for a TV network here?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I don't know to be quite honest.  Never gave it much thought.

Q.  Is commentary a good thing to do once you're done with your career?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  You know, I stopped thinking about and calling out my career long ago, especially after three surgeries.  I don't know what tomorrow's got for me.  I'll take it a day at a time.

Q.  Did you have any chance to hang out after Wimbledon?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I spent my time in San  Diego.  I was just surfing, doing fitness every day.  I did have a chance to relax.  It was really nice.

Q.  You mentioned cards you were being dealt, you have to play them, one of which is you may be facing Roger Federer in the third round.  Any thought that you might add to the fact you don't want to talk about?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, I have a second round to play.  That's what I'm focusing on.  There's no way I'm looking anywhere past that.  Men's tennis is too tough to look past the next round.

Q.  Obviously you're a big server.  Some former champions have complained racquet technology is changing the sport, making it not as enjoyable for fans.  Can you see where they're coming from with that point?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No, because guys are working harder.  Guys are doing gym now, they're getting stronger.  I don't think they were doing that in the past.  No matter what racquet you're going to give them, guys are going to hit the ball hard.  It's like telling Lleyton Hewitt to stop running fast.  If that's his weapon, that's his weapon.  Nothing you can do about that.  Guys work hard.  I've worked hard since I was 14 years old to have a big serve.  All of a sudden because of all those years of work, you're going to take that away from me, give me a wooden racquet or a wooden ball?  That's where it's unfair.  I feel like you spend the time, you work something, have a strength, that's what the whole point is.

Q.  You don't think the racquet technology is advancing the game, taking away from serve and volleyers, things like that?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No.  I mean, I use a racquet they stopped making six years ago.  I feel like I'm hitting the ball pretty hard with that.

Q.  Were you a little put off when he did his handstand there?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Put off, no.

Q.  Did you find it annoying in any way?  You did a little thing with the crowd. 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I was just showing that I've got some tricks, too (smiling). 

Q.  Was there any point, through the three surgeries and tough results, that you thought about walking away from the game totally?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  To be quite honest, only for a split second going into the surgeries.  Not the second, probably the third one more than anything, because it was so big, being in the wheelchair.  It's impossible not to have some negative thoughts running through your mind when you're sitting in the wheelchair.  You do have some negative thoughts and you do have your doubts.  But I pushed them out of my mind pretty quick.

Q.  How have things changed for you since Wimbledon?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I don't think it has, to be quite honest.  If anything, I just felt maybe it's made me more professional, it's made me step up and realize I've got  -- I just got to step up and be ready for the expectations now and things that are going to be dealt with me  - whether it's extra stuff, sponsors, expectations on the court.  I feel like I'm ready to try, you know, back myself up.  If anything's changed, I would say mentally I feel a lot stronger, tougher.

Q.  Feel more responsibility?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah.  I think the difference is now I'm ready for it, whereas before I don't think I was mature enough to accept all those responsibilities.

Q.  Are you building a grass court?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I don't know.  Maybe.  Maybe.

Q.  I didn't see the idea behind that.  If you're already in Europe, why not stay and practice in London? 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Why not just build a grass court, too (smiling)? 

Q.  You spent quite a lot of time with Lleyton during the hard court season.  The other day John McEnroe said Lleyton's dad said one of the reasons he hasn't performed well is he's too happy.  Is that something that, A, should be a problem, or, B, do you perceive it?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I don't know about that.  Lleyton and I get on really well.  I invited him to my house for five days.  We trained really hard.  We played golf, relaxed.  I think guys perform differently under different circumstances.  Maybe Lleyton is a guy who needs something happening to pump himself up for his matches.  For myself, if I'm happy off the court, I play great tennis on the court.  You know, if that's the case, maybe I could walk past him and give him a quick elbow in the head, pump him up (smiling).

Q.  That being said, are you happy right now?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I am.  You know, there's nothing to be upset about.  You know, my family's healthy, I'm healthy.  That's the most important thing for me. 

Q.  Did you think about the (inaudible) at all going out there today?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I kind of knew they were going to put me on that court again.  If I had that same shot, I would try that same thing. 

Q.  Could you tell us about what your post match warm-down process is?  Do you do any special work with the knee?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No, I just make sure I warm it up properly.  I definitely do not want to go on the court cold, whether it be the practice court or the match court.  You know, do my warming up on my bike, do my stretching, you know, just go out warm.  I think that's the most important thing.

Q.  Post match?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Just cool down, stretch, take my time, try to do the right thing.  Ice the knee.  Nothing's hurting, but just for precautionary reasons, things like that.

Q.  Why do you think you've sort of fallen for the surf culture, that kind of lifestyle?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I felt like it's always been me, I just haven't discovered that.  I've always loved the water as a kid.  Everything I've liked, this has kind of put everything together that I've loved.  It just makes so much sense when I'm in the water, I just feel so relaxed.  I think there's definitely some stress in tennis on and off the court.  Surfing is something where I will just go in the water, just come out of the water, feel so relaxed, feel just like a different person, so energized.  For me, that's very important to do.

Q.  Since you started living in Cardiff, has there been a particular ride or wave that you've caught down there which was the most exhilarating ride you've had?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Hasn't really been a big swell when I've been there.  There's been days where it's just been beautiful, not a cloud in the sky.  The water's blue.  Not big waves, just three or four foot, clean.  Some of the things you see, dolphins swims underneath you, around you.  Things like that make it so beautiful.

Q.  What's the difference between the Southern California surf culture and, for instance, where you lived in Florida?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  The difference is there's no waves in Florida. 

Q.  There's hardly any waves in Southern California. 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Oh, there's waves every day.  A bad day is probably two-foot.  A good day is two-foot in Florida because you get blocked by the Bahamas. 

Q.  Do you think if you had your time again, did you have it in you to be a professional surfer?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I was just talking about it the other day.  I could definitely see it.  When I have kids one day, I'm definitely going to get them to surf.  I think it's going to be great.

Q.  Instead of this?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I'm not going to stick a tennis racquet in their hand, no way.  They're doing something else.

Q.  Is that because there's less scrutiny from the media, the rewards are still good, less stress?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  They're so relaxed.  They're not into the material side of life.  It's so easy to get stuck into that, which I did.  Obviously, you love your cars, you love your houses.  It just shows what the important things in life are.  They take a backpack, they take a surf board, they go out and they travel.  They share like a little house, four of them, wake up, go and surf.  They're the happiest people in the world.  I went on a surf trip Mexico three days prior to when I left.  I was sharing a room with a pro surfer.  "Are we sharing?"  "I'm sorry."  I was excited, because I've never shared a room with somebody.  Guy is looking at me like I'm crazy because I'm happy about sharing a room.  Simple things make life a lot easier, I think. 

Q.  Who introduced you to it?  Who brought you to the wave?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Brett Stephens, Pete's trainer.  I went up to LA and did some stuff with them and he was into surfing.  Ended up buying a surfboard.  I remember going out, first wave I got, I stood up, I was just hooked.  Doing things like I did, I ended up buying 15 surfboards thinking that's going to make me surf better. 

Q.  Have you seen the surf movie about these two guys going around the world?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yes.

Q.  What did you think?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I think that's pretty cool. 

Q.  Do you think you'll be able to forgive your father for raising you in Melbourne?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No.  I mean, an hour away we have beautiful beaches.  You have Bell's Beach, one of the best waves in the world, an hour away.  I always went to the beach, but for some reason I never thought about surfing.  I loved to fish, be in the water, but I never thought about grabbing a surfboard.

Q.  We have Lleyton who is going to go play footy, you're going to go surf?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah, that's it.  Life's good. 

Q.  Great Davis Cup team. 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Thanks. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT