WIMBLEDON
July 4, 2003
Mark Philippoussis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Afternoon.  Mark Philippoussis for you. 


Q.  Almost exactly two years ago you're lying in bed after a very serious operation, possibly wondering whether you'd ever be able to play tennis again.  You probably thought, "I do want to play tennis again," but did you ever think that just two years down the line you'd be sitting here in the final at Wimbledon?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No, definitely not.  I think after that third surgery, I pretty much told myself never to look too far ahead.  I've always done that in my career, and I've just taken it a day at a time since then.

Q.  How hard was the trip back from the last two years, to get from flat on your back to the final at Wimbledon? 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah, it's  -- obviously, it's very tough.  I've been through a lot.  But everything in life happens for a reason, I've always said that.  So everything's been worthwhile. 

Q.  How does it feel to finally get here? 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  You know, so far it feels good, you know.  So, you know, I still got one match to play and, you know...  So nothing to get too excited about. 

Q.  Was that easier than you thought it would be? 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I don't know if the score line did us justice.  I don't think Sebastien played as well as he can, but, you know, maybe I'd like to say I didn't let him.  So I don't know.  I'm obviously just pleased just to have a three-set match so I can come off and let the body recover and have an easier day than what it has been in the past.

Q.  Do you believe in fairy tales?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah, I love my movies.  Why not, yeah.

Q.  Specifically to win this Wimbledon after what you've been through?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Like I said, I'm far away from it.  And, you know, now I've got another match to go.  That's the only thing I'm thinking about.  I'm not really thinking about the trophy or anything like that; I'm just thinking about getting my body ready, and coming up for that match and playing a good match.

Q.  What did you have written on your plasters?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  It's a secret.

Q.  One of the photographers managed to get a close-up shot of it.  The words were "pathea" and "andros."  I think that roughly translates to "Man of Pathea."  Is that right?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No (laughter).

Q.  Was it a source of inspiration for you, the words? 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No, it's something just to remind myself on the court, that's all. 

Q.  Go back to your first Grand Slam final.  You were much younger then, maybe less mature than you are now.  As you reflect back on that US Open, did you prepare for it in the right way?  Were you nervous?  How have you learned from that? 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I was extremely nervous.  First of all, it was my first Grand Slam.  Second of all, I was playing a countryman, Pat, who the year before had won it.  So he'd already been through everything and obviously had won.  He knew what it was all about.  It was my first time, so it was a totally new experience for me.  It's definitely always tough when you're playing your countryman, especially in the final of a Grand Slam.  So I definitely can take some experience away from that.

Q.  What is your plan going into this final? 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I'm just going to play exactly how I've been playing.  It's another match for me.  That's the only thing I'm thinking about.

Q.  I know it's distant history now, but how much of that final was down to the Roche business? 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  That had nothing to do with anything.  No, that's silly. 

Q.  Have you spoken to Lleyton at all this week?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah, I have spoken to him a few times.

Q.  Have you spoken about the possibility of you getting in the final?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No, he just congratulated me and, you know, just spoke about what he's been up to and stuff like that, so...

Q.  Will he be there on Sunday?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I doubt it.  I mean, you know, depending on Kim, you know, how she's doing and that.  And he's got to do his own thing. 

Q.  What are your thoughts on either of these guys? 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No matter who I play, it's gonna be tough.  They're both extremely talented.  Roger can do everything on the court.  He's comfortable serve and volleying and staying back.  So it's not gonna be easy, no matter who I play. 

Q.  How much of your come back has been down to the fact that your father is healthy again?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  It's always nice.  I mean, my family is number one priority in my life, not tennis.  So, you know, obviously, when everyone in your family is healthy, you know, that's the biggest blessing you could possibly have. 

Q.  You started off in this match failing to win any of the first 12 points off Grosjean's serve.  Then you gradually worked yourself into it.  What was the key for you to finally breaking him? 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  It was my first match on that Centre Court, and I felt like it was a little heavier compared to the rest, especially Court 1.  I thought the grass was a little thicker.  So I was just kind of just getting used to the bounce.  And the time was a little different.  You know, after that, took me a while, but I just told myself to be aggressive.  And, you know, from there I just got the feel of it then, you know, just, you know, kept going forward. 

Q.  The tattoo you have and the words, how important is your Greek heritage to you? 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  It's very important.  I mean, you know, my dad being Greek, my mom's Italian but speaks Greek.  I was born in Australia.  Obviously, I'm always gonna play for Australia.  But the Greek heritage is very important for me, because Greek was my first language growing up as a kid. 

Q.  Is your mom coming out?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No.  No, she's not.

Q.  I've been in Cardiff by the Sea a number of times.  I've never seen any very sumptuous living quarters in Cardiff by the Sea.  Where do you live there?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I'm renting a house, actually, in Cardiff, Cardiff by the Sea, yeah.

Q.  Is it right on the ocean? 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  It's on the beach.  Not on the sand, but there's nothing -- it's right up on Cardiff Reef.

Q.  On Cardiff Reef?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah.

Q.  I've also been talking to some of the people that I'm sure you know in San Diego county.  They've been anxious to have you play Roddick in the final.  They say it would be a clash of Titans.  It doesn't look like you're going to be playing Roddick.  Is that a disappointment to you?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No, I mean, I don't care who I play in the final. 

Q.  Grosjean is one of the quickest players on the tour.  His hands are so quick.  Is that something you had to deal with today for a while before you got into this match?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  His movement is definitely one of his strengths.  He's so quick when he wants to get around his backhand, hit his forehand.  He's got a great forehand for  -- considering he's not a big guy, he's got a lot of pace behind it.  So, you know, I had to be aggressive.  You know, I think against Popp I did a lot of slicing because I just wanted to take the pace off the ball.  If I did that against Grosjean, he was all over it.  He would just run around and smack his forehand.  So I just tried to be more aggressive and step it up.

Q.  What do you remember of the 1999 against Pete Sampras, what you went through there?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  What I remember about it? 

Q.  Yeah.  What were you feeling at the time?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Obviously, extremely disappointed and just scared of not knowing, you know, what had happened to me.  So, yeah, a lot of mixed feelings.

Q.  Whoever you play, you're gonna have the experience, edge.  That's got to be a plus. 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, you'd like  -- you'd think so but, you know, every day on the court's a different day.  You know, depending on who's up for it, I guess, who's more pumped, you know, a bit of luck on their side.  That's what it takes.

Q.  You've had some close calls.  Has there been a sense of destiny over the last fortnight?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I don't know.  Everything's felt pretty good, so haven't really been thinking about much except just wanting to get on the court and play a good match.  That's the only thing that's been in my mind.  

Q.  Does it matter you were able to get on and off this court in a fairly quick time today considering you had a couple five-setters in this last week? 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  It was important for me, I think.  To come off, and knowing that I've got a day off tomorrow and I can have a light hit and take care of the body, and just try and come up and feeling really fresh for Sunday.

Q.  This is the fourth year in a row there's been an Australian in the final here.  Does that add any expectation of home and pressure on you?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No, not at all.  If anything, it's just a great thing for Australian tennis and Australia.

Q.  Do you feel you've got something to live up to?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No.  You know, I play for myself.  I mean, you know, the only thing I've got to prove is to myself.  I've got nothing to prove to anyone else.

Q.  Have you had any contact with Pat Rafter this week or this year?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No. 

Q.  The matchup with Federer, let's assume it is because he's up two sets right now, he's gotten you a couple times.  Once, surprisingly, indoors.  It was a Davis Cup match, wasn't it?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah.

Q.  What do you have to do differently this time to deal with him?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, last time we played was in Hamburg couple months ago and I beat him there.  So this is grass; it's a totally different surface.  Totally different day.  So, you know, if I play him, I'm just  -- you know, again, I know how he plays; he knows how I play.  Like I said before, I don't care who's on the other side of the net, I'm just gonna play my game and that's the only thing to it.

Q.  He gets a lot of services back.  Is that a frustrating thing for a big server? 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, you know, I don't know how he's been playing.  Obviously, he's been playing some great tennis.  But I've been playing pretty good myself.  So looking forward to it.

Q.  You talked about the advice you'd got from Newk and Fraz and a couple of the others the other day.  There's obviously a long honor roll of Australians on the trophy.  Would it mean much to you to join those names, be part of that? 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  You know, obviously just having your name on the trophy is, 
you know, a dream come true, I'm sure.  A lot of, you know, tennis players, when they are kids, dream of winning Wimbledon.  It's one of their favorite tournaments; it was  -- it has been for me.  So, obviously, the history this tournament has is great.  Hopefully, I'll have a chance to be part of it. 

Q.  What was your first Wimbledon memory, watching it? 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I think it was Boris when he was 17.  I remember this guy just diving around everywhere, I kind of admired that.  Yeah. 

Q.  Is that why you picked up with that volley the other day to save the matchpoint?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  That was just  -- I mean, I've always enjoyed diving, but that was just instinct, you know.  Just reacted to that one.

Q.  Does danger have an appeal to you?  I'm aware you've been snowboarding and windsurfing, even surfing has some danger.  Are you a guy that gets off on stuff like that? 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No, I mean, I've stopped a lot of things.  I (inaudible) a lot of other things which were more dangerous than that.  The only thing I do now is surf.  I do love it.  It makes me relax.  Definitely helps physically and mentally.  So that's the only thing I love doing now.

Q.  Which is more nerve-wracking, stepping out on Centre Court or a big day at Cardiff Reef? 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I don't know.  Gets pretty hairy at Cardiff Reef when it's big, yeah.  So maybe Cardiff Reef.

Q.  What temperature is that water?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  It's pretty cold, pretty cold, yeah.

Q.  What are the things you've done that are more dangerous than surfing and snowboarding?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Skydiving.  I wanted to get my skydiving license.  You know, I love motorbikes, street bikes, dirt bike riding. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT