WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2003
Mark Philippoussis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Mark Philippoussis for you.  
 
 
Q..  Having gone through all the rain delays and everything, is it a bit of a relief to get that match out of the way now?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah, definitely.  I mean, you know, I tried to come out firing.  I did; he did, too.  I think, God, that last set was a battle.  We both played some good tennis.  And, you know, just a little luck, happened just to come away with that one. 
 
Q..  The first two sets yesterday, did you come out feeling a bit flat after the Agassi match?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I was a little flat, little too flat.  I wasn't pumped up  -- well, I was pumped, but I guess I wasn't on my toes enough.  And, you know, I guess after a match like that against Andre, little tough to come back.  But, you know, past experiences, I knew that, and I tried not to make that happen.  But I guess it did.  But luckily I got out of it, so... 
 
Q..  Was there anything in particular that allowed you to sort of turn it around the way you did? 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Just my intensity.  After that rain delay, I just came back out and I was a different person.  Just I'd lifted up my spirits, my game, just my posture, the way I was walking around the court.  I just wanted to look more intimidating which, you know, I felt like I wasn't the first two sets.  He was  -- he was just, you know, in control of the match, I think, from the word "go."  You know, that's not the way I play.  So I felt like when I got back out there, I just wanted to try and take over and take it to him. 
 
Q..  Was there anything anyone said to you during the delay or anything, that you said to yourself, or anything that sort of sparked you?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah, yeah.  My dad, Fitzy and Newcombe and Fraser, you know.  So it was good.  
 
Q..  After the final rain delay, the point of the final rain delay yesterday, you seemed to have a tremendous amount of momentum going.  Did you welcome that last rain delay? 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, definitely.  You know, when a match is going that way, you just want to come off the court and think, "What's going on?"  A lot of time, obviously, I've got no idea how  -- I don't know what I'm doing wrong sometimes out there.  Wasn't moving my feet.  I thought I was, but I wasn't, you know.  You can't see what you're doing most of the time.  So, like I said, my dad had some words with me.  And, you know, Fitzy was there, and Newk and Fraz and just told me that - they all agreed - and told me the same thing.   So, you know, it was nice to have that talk.  And when I came out, I was pumped and, you know, fired up.  
 
Q..  Can you say what this means to you, to reach a semifinal here at Wimbledon after so long since your last one in a Grand Slam? 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  It's  -- it feels good, because it's  -- God, it's been so long.  You know, obviously, '98 since the US Open.  But, you know, after those three surgeries and stuff, it's been a long, long trip back, a long road.  And, you know, just hard work and the effort into it and the hours rehabilitating my knee in the gym and on the court.  You know, it pays off, and it's all worthwhile at the end. 
 
Q..  Can you give some idea as to how low you got when you were having the surgery.  Were you told that you weren't going to play again at one point?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah, I mean, my third surgery was pretty big.  I was in a wheelchair for a couple of months.  So I couldn't walk.  They had to drill a hole in my bone.  So, you know, obviously, I'm the kind of person that can never pretty much sit still.  I always want to be doing something at home.  For me to be sitting in a wheelchair for two and a half months and not be able to move is very, very depressing.  It was tough for me mentally more than anything.  So just that whole road bank.  My ranking went to 150.  Obviously, I wasn't getting into tournaments.  I had to get wildcards into tournaments.  Some -- I didn't play in some.  So, you know, it was a big wake-up call for me.  It definitely got me pumped.  You know, that hunger, got me that hunger back that I'd lost in the past.  So, you know...   But I think when things like that happen, I think some of the best things come out of people.  And when you're down and out and, you know, you fight your way back and -- everything just becomes so much sweeter.  
 
Q..  Regardless of what happens in the semifinal, are you now considering that you're back among the elite and back there to stay? 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, I mean, I've always  -- I've always thought and I've always said if I'm healthy, I'm dangerous.  All I want is to remain healthy this year.  That's my only goal.  That's the only thing I'm asking for, is just to remain healthy.   And I know with my hard work, it's going to pay off.  It's not like I'm in the semis now and, "Okay, it's good enough, I'm going to go home," and just play my match.  You've come all this way.  It's like -- everyone wants to win, there's no doubt about that.  But I think at this stage, that title is so much more further away than normal.  So I'll be, obviously, nervous, but, you know, the good thing is I think, you know, him being seeded where he is, maybe some people expect him to win.  I like being in that position. 
 
Q..  Those times you were in the wheelchair and feeling down, did it make you reflect and think you had this great talent that everybody said was worth a couple Grand Slams, and you hadn't achieved them, did it make you think you hadn't utilized the talent you had?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Oh, sure.  But it's not about those things; it's a lot of other things that go with it.  Obviously, when you're in a wheelchair and lying in bed, the only time you have to do is think, think about your life, think about things, and "what if," you know, "I could have done this," and "I could have done that," "What if that happened?"  It's so easy to think like that.   
 
Q..  Have you seen many of Sebastien's games over Queen's and here?  And what do you think about him as an opponent?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  He's very, very talented, as a lot of Frenchmen are.  Obviously, he's playing great tennis to have made it to the final in Queen's and to have beaten Tim today to make it into the semis tomorrow. You know, obviously, he's got a big forehand.  He loves running around his backhand, hitting his forehand.  He returns the ball well.  You know, I think a lot of times -- I saw him hit some nice backhand winners down the line, and he's got that backhand topspin flick to the lob.  Again, like I said before, it doesn't matter who I play or what their game is, I just want to go out there and concentrate on my game and focus on that.  
 
Q..  What things attracted you to the San Diego area in California? 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I've always liked California, but I think I would have to say just the people.  I really, really like the people a lot more in California, and the lifestyle there  - and the waves.  
 
Q..  And what do you like about  -- what aspect of the people do you like?  What's your favorite beach? 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I live in Cardiff by the Sea, so Cardiff Reef would have to be my favorite beach.  And the people, they're just so laid back.  They're so easy-going.  And it's such a surf community.  Everyone's just polite to each other.  They go to -- whether it be getting something to eat or in the supermarket or getting a coffee, everyone says hello.  It's like a nice little community.  That's what I like so much.  No one's materialistic, like where I lived in Miami, in Florida, everything's so what you have, you know, and you show it off.  I just kind of got over all that and I just wanted to get away from all that.  That's why I really fell in love with where I live now. 
 
Q..  Reminds you of Australia?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah, exactly.  People are so laid back.  And it's really nice.  It's really nice, refreshing. 
 
Q..  You had a good start, a good serve, some break chances.  After that, you seemed to be struggling a little bit.  Popp was serving very good.  You had some break chances against you.  Can you tell, in your words, what happened during this time.
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, I don't know if I would say I was struggling.  I mean, the guy came up with some great returns and he played great tennis at the end.  There's nothing much you can do.  If the guy serves around 80 percent first serves, I had to try and pick him off.  He's got a big serve, and try to make him play.  I was down some breakpoints.  I came up with a diving winner on one, and two big second serves and gone for them.  Like I said, when, you know, times are down, I take chances.  That's what I do.  And it paid off.  So, you know, I can't really say much wrong happened.  I think we both played good tennis, and I was a little fortunate at the end. 
 
Q..  The diving winner, was this the key point? 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I don't know if that was the key point  -- well, of that game, it definitely was the key point.  But, I mean, just the whole set was just so close, you know.  I had breakpoints.  He came up with some great plays and vice versa, so... 
 
Q..  When you were in the wheelchair, did you think more about getting back on the surfboard or picking up a tennis racquet?  Which was more important?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No, I mean, when I lived in Miami, I was into surfing back then.  Obviously, when something's lost, the thing you love most is what you miss, and that was tennis, so... 
 
Q..  Second serves, particularly in the clutch points, are you rolling the dice or just feeling super confident?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, obviously, you're taking a bit of a gamble.  But I've got enough self-confidence in myself to know that, hopefully, I can go for it, that that's why I do go for it.  If I didn't have the confidence, you know, you'd kick it and stay back.  But that's not the kind of player I am.  I feel like I've got enough confidence that I can go for those serves, and it paid off. 
 
Q..  Compare this to the '98 US Open where you made the final.  Do you feel better this time around?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  It's sort of tough to compare.  God, it felt like it was like 20 years ago.  So can't really compare it.  
 
Q..  Talking about your life in San Diego, any thoughts of moving back to Australia?  When would that possibly be?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No, not while I play tennis.  It's just way too far away, unfortunately.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT