WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2003
Mark Philippoussis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Good evening.  Mark Philippoussis for you.  
 
 
Q.  Was that the match of your career?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I wouldn't say it was the match of my career.  I'm extremely happy the way I concentrated throughout the match.  You know, I hung in there and I just fought hard.  It was another one where I just had to fight and just give it all, you know, give it my all. 
 
Q.  How would you rate it amongst the big wins you've had?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  It's definitely up there.  It was extremely important for me.  I mean, he's beaten me twice this year.  I think the last seven times in a row, something like that.  So, you know, to finally get him, the way it happened, you know, I'm just very pleased. 
 
Q.  As you thought back on those six consecutive losses in a row to Andre, was there a common thread, something you didn't do right that you had to correct?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  There were a lot of things actually I could have done a little better (smiling).  The first one I played in San  Jose, he beat me comfortably, like 6-4, 6-1.  Miami was three sets.  I felt like I had a chance there.  You know, coming into this match, I felt, you know, confident.  Again, like I said, I had nothing to lose.  Everyone was expecting him to win.  That's a great position to be in.  
 
Q.  What's happened since Queen's?  Anything changed?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No, I mean, coming up against a guy like Richard, you can't do much.  You know, a huge serve and volleyer.  I had some chances there.  You know, I can't put my head down when I lose to a guy like that.  I kept on working hard.  The exhibition was huge for me to get three matches there.  I played well there.  You know, every match here, I played better and better.  I felt like my concentration's been better.  You know, my self-belief is going up. 
 
Q.  He smoked a few returns at the end of the third set in the tiebreak.  Would have been easy for you to get discouraged.  You were able to bounce back. 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah, there's nothing much you can do about that.  You know, had a huge, long game to break him in the fifth service game of the fourth.  That was very important.  I think I was down like Love-40 at 4-2, which was also big to get out of.  You know, I was down a lot of breakpoints.  I fought back with some first serves.  You know, when the first serve goes in, it definitely makes life a lot easier. 
 
Q.  There was some criticism after you split with Peter before the French Open about going back with your dad.  Do you feel vindicated by the path you've taken?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  You know what, I honestly don't listen to that because that's just so silly.  I mean, I've been with my dad since I was six years old.  He's the one that taught me to play tennis.  It's just a lot of negative stuff that I don't listen to.  Just like Lleyton, you know, the guy's No.  1 in the world two years in a row, he loses a match, everyone is on his case like he should drop his parents.  I felt bad for him.  I just want him to keep his head up .  Everyone loves you when you're winning.  You lose a match, no one jumps on the bandwagon. 
 
Q.  Can you talk about what your dad has done with you over the last three or four weeks?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  We've done the same thing.  I've just been working hard.  Like I said, things have paid off.  We've been working hard all year, hard on my fitness.  It's just starting to pay off.  It's as sample as that. 
 
Q.  What do you know about Alexander Popp? 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Big serve and volleyer.  It's the first time I'm going to be playing a serve and volleyer.  All the matches I played, the guys mostly stayed back.  You know, at least I know he's going to be coming in on me.  I'm going to have to work on my passing shots, make him play.  Always tough when you play against someone you've never played against.  Again, I want to concentrate on my game, just think about what I have to do. 
 
Q.  Any chance he was more tired than you at the end?  Did you sense anything?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I don't know.  I don't know.  I'm not sure.  All I was telling myself was I've been working really hard, with my fitness trainer, Marcus in San  Diego.  We've done some crazy drills where he's nearly made me cry.  I just thought back and said, "Think about what you've done to get here.  Stay strong.  All that work was for this."  
 
Q.  Crazy drills like what?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Stuff on staircases, really long staircases, going down with my hands and legs, going down with my hands first.  
 
Q.  After Lleyton, your Davis Cup teammate, lost in the first round, did you feel that might have given you just that little edge to do it for yourself and for him as well?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No.  I mean, it was a big shock that he lost, and I felt bad.  But, you know, when you're in the same draw as him or something like that, you know, maybe it changes little things.  But I was in a complete opposite draw.  So for me it didn't make a difference at all. 
 
Q.  Has your friendship with Lleyton over the last six months, playing doubles, seeing a bit of him, have you brought much out of watching him?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yes, of course.  You definitely have to look at the guy.  Like I said, his work ethic, he's great on the court.  His intensity is awesome.  We have fun on the doubles court, practice court.  Definitely a lot of things can you take away from him.  
 
Q.  When you go into a match against such a great returner, what do you go into the match trying to do or what did you do?  How can you get the best out of your own serve?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I think, you know, the great thing about the serve, you've got the ball in your hands.  You can take your time, no one can rush you.  You know, you're in control.  Today I had great rhythm out there, made life a lot easier for me.  Even on the second serves, I went for them.  Against a guy like Andre, you have to.  You can't kick the ball in and expect to run in and serve and volley.  Like you say, he's one of the best returners in the world, if not the best returner.  You have to take some chances, I took some chances and it paid off. 
 
Q.  Are you at the point yet where you actually feel like a Southern Californian?  I'm wondering if all that washing around in the surf might have been a therapeutic thing for you, that might have helped your injuries to heal?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I wouldn't say that.  If anything, it probably would have helped my mind more than anything.  But, you know, I was born in Australia.  I'm an Australian all the way through.  But I do love living in San  Diego.  
 
Q.  Is there anything about today or your run here that you can attribute to being back and working with your dad?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, you got to understand, my dad's always been there.  In the past he hasn't been well enough to travel with me.  We went back to basics, as simple as that.  When things aren't going your way, you're struggling, I think the best thing to do is to go back to basics.  That's the way I've been training.  That's my thought process on the court.  Just think about what I used to do when I was younger.  When I was 18, 19, you're on the tour, you just get on tour, you're so hungry, you have no fear.  You just swing and go for second serve aces.  But that's my game.  I am the kind of guy that's going to go for risks.  That's just the way I play.  I'm not the kind of guy who is going to think about, "Kick it here, make him run."  I don't play that way.  I play with instinct.  That's the way I've been practicing.  
 
Q.  Where do you play, at the La Jolla club?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I've been practice  -- I played at La Costa, Bobby Riggs a little bit.  Lately I've been training at Fairbanks Ranch Country Club. 
 
Q.  How early are you up and in the surf?  Any of your surfing buddies here?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No, I just got like 12 messages from them.  But probably in the water 7:30 every morning.  
 
Q.  How long do you spend surfing before you call it a day?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I surf, I don't know, at least three, four hours a day.  Training two hours on the court, two hours of fitness in the gym.  
 
Q.  You say you don't look too far ahead.  The way you played today, it must excite you that bigger things are ahead? 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah, I mean, I'm extremely pleased with the outcome today.  There's nothing to get too excited about.  It's quarterfinals.  I have a match to concentrate on.  That match is behind me now.  I've got to try and obviously take the pluses from that match, you know, take the confidence from that and just put it into my next match.  You know, have a nice easy day tomorrow, think about the match on Wednesday. 
 
Q.  You've not been past the quarterfinals before.  Is that something that's in your mind?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Not at all.  The good thing is I've been in the quarterfinals a few times.  That definitely helps with experience.  It's just something I'm just looking forward to.  
 
Q.  Your knee has been an impediment.  What is the status of it now?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  The great thing is I don't have any knee pain at all.  There's no niggling pains, nothing that's sore.  It feels great.  
 
Q.  Your last two quarterfinals was Sampras twice, Agassi.  This time it's Alexander Popp.  Is that a different mindset?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  It's nothing to take easy.  I mean, the guy's obviously playing some great tennis or else he wouldn't be in the quarterfinals.  He's a dangerous player.  He's got some weapons.  He's got a big serve, great groundstrokes.  You know, it's just something that, again, I'm not going to think about who's on the other side or anything like that.  I'm just looking forward to playing my game. 
 
Q.  Lleyton is such a hard-edge practice player.  Probably plays practice matches pretty much the way he plays regular matches.  Does that put any kind of a hard edge on your game?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No.  I mean, we're totally different.  He's intense.  I'm pretty relaxed, laid back, although I'm still a little intense.  We're totally different guys on the court, so...  
 
Q.  How tough will it be to repeat today's form?  Can you match that again?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  It's not like, you know, I have to think about going out there and saying I've got to hit 50 aces or this.  I'm going to go out there, play my game.  It's another match.  Nothing to think about.  I've got to try and match it or do anything better.  All I've got to do is try to do whatever I can to win that match.  Simple as that.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT