WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2003
Mark Philippoussis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Ladies and Gentlemen, Mark Philippoussis.  
 
 
Q.  Did you feel that there was progress there from the first couple of rounds, a step up, do you think?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  If anything, I would say it was just a gutsy win.  You know, I think I played good at times, but it was just one of those matches.  I just, you know, fought out hard and just kept on fighting and came through. 
 
Q.  He was very steady there at the beginning.  You somehow found a way to get over that. 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, he's a tough player to play  - weird, because you don't know what he's going to do.  It's the first time I played him.  You know, he can hit a good first serve, then the second serve has a lot of kick on it.  You know, the ball is kicking up high.  He was serve-volleying, mixing it up well.  You weren't sure what he was going to do.  I think he played a good match. 
 
Q.  4-0 and 4-1 down in the two tiebreakers.  To come back in that situation, does that give you a lot of confidence?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Definitely.  I never thought I was out of it.  Even when I was 4-Love down, I thought, "Okay, just win my point."  All of a sudden, one point back, and he's only up one mini-break.  You know, with a good return, I think he double-faulted, that's all it takes sometimes in a tiebreaker.  A couple good shots, a bit of luck.  It was good. 
 
Q.  Thoughts on the next match?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah, I mean, what can I say?  Playing Andre, it's going to be something I'm looking forward to.  Obviously, I know how he's going to play.  I think the most important thing for me is just to go out there and fight again like I did today.  Enjoy myself.  That's the number one thing, enjoy myself, enjoy the challenge, enjoy being out on the court, the atmosphere.  You know, this is why we play tennis.  
 
Q.  For these kind of matches when you play somebody like Andre, with his game, is it more a question that you have to just play your own game and forget about what's coming from the other side?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Oh, definitely.  Doesn't matter who's on the other side.  You know, obviously I've got to worry about myself.  You know, obviously, depending on who you play, you want to sometimes change your game a little on the other guy.  But, you know, for me, I just got to worry about myself, just have good rhythm and just stay relaxed and positive.  
 
Q.  Given your expectations have been pretty low, match by match, that sort of thing, is your mindset different coming into a big match like this than it might have been in the past when you have played Sampras or Andre?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I mean, they always say in Grand Slams the tournament starts in the second week.  Now Monday it's going to be the second week.  Obviously, everyone's hitting the ball well.  So, you know, obviously I can't really say it's going to be different, no matter if it's Andre or Pete on the other side, no matter who it is.  I mean, it's the second week of Wimbledon.  You know, it's time to step it up a notch.  That's hopefully what's going to happen. 
 
Q.  Do you have any sort of sense of approaching a peak now, moving up towards a peak next week? 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  For me, I mean, I just like to, you know, take each day as it comes and not set myself a goal like that.  I just want to, you know, tomorrow get out on the practice court, just stay relaxed.  Obviously, I'm hitting the ball well, so there's no need to stress about getting rhythm, because it's there.  Also when Monday comes, I mean, like I said, I'm hitting the ball well, so I just want to stay relaxed, go out there and just play aggressive.  You know, you're not going to beat a guy like Andre not playing aggressive.  You know, he likes to take control of the point.  So obviously I don't want that to happen.  You know, I got to go out there and do what I can do and try and take over. 
 
Q.  Do you feel the way you're going now, if you remain injury-free, that you'll be able to be at your best and perhaps even get back into the Top 10, as you were a few years ago?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  There's no doubt in my mind, of course.  I mean, I've never doubted my ability.  I've always said if I'm healthy, I'm dangerous.  There's no doubt about that.  I have no doubt.  You know, I just want to stay healthy.  That's all I want.  I just want to have a chance.  If I'm healthy, you know, my strength is just going to start building up as the months go by.  You know, after this, I've got three weeks off.  It's a good chance to go back and work on my fitness even more, get my legs stronger for the summer in America.  You know, I feel like I'm moving better around the court.  I volleyed good today, which I was very happy with.  You know, I know good things will come.  If I work hard and do the right thing, the results will come.  There's no doubt about that. 
 
Q.  Do you aim to get back into the Top 10?  Such a big occasion like a match against the No.  1 on such a big stage, can that be seen as a turning point for you as you continue to try to improve?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Of course.  There's no doubt it's a big match, playing the No.  1 guy in the world on I think one of the most beautiful centre courts in the world.  Again, that's what you play for.  To go out there and be all nervous, it's not that.  Let's face it, I think people expect him to win.  I like being in that position.  That's a nice position to be in.  He's the guy that's No.  1 in the world.  For me, I'm going to enjoy myself, go out there and play hard, play the way that I can play. 
 
Q.  How easy is it to stay positive through all your injuries?  You say you just want a chance.  Some things are out of your control. 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, it's not easy.  That's the thing, it's not easy.  There are times, especially after the third surgery when they said I couldn't play, I was in a wheelchair where I couldn't play.  Obviously, is it worth coming back?  Is it going to happen again if I come back?  Not only does it take a toll on you physically, it's a mental battle more than anything  - to come back at three surgeries, is this all worth it?  Is it going to happen again?  How is my body going to feel?  But I think that's what makes life a lot sweeter.  It definitely makes, you know, my time on the court sweeter, especially after having some good victories, getting my results back.  Just proving to myself - not anyone else - just proving to myself that I can do it.  That's all I want.  
 
Q.  How does the challenge of serving and volleying against a guy like Andre on grass compare to some of the other good returners in the game like Lleyton?  How is his game on grass?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I must say, Lleyton, you know , I might have to say has taken over his crown as best returner of the world.  But Andre is obviously still up there.  You know, it's going to be tough, no doubt about that.  I'm going to have to have some good rhythm on my serve.  Definitely a high percentage of first serves is going to help. 
 
Q.  In today's match, I was surprised that maybe you didn't take the second serve return and come in a little more.  That's something you used to do a bit.  Was that a tactical thing you were doing?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No, I agree.  I didn't do it once, and I should have done it.  That's the thing, though, because I never played him before.  I wasn't sure what he was going to do because he snuck in.  But I definitely should have.  I definitely had some chances on breakpoints where I didn't.  You know, my game is to put the pressure on.  I think I got away with that today.  You know, my dad told me that, once I got off the court, that's something I should have done. 
 
Q.  Is that something you'll do in the next match? 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Definitely.  You know, if the guy passes me, too good.  Five sets.  If can he pass me for five sets, he deserves the match. 
 
Q.  The organization here has been changing, the kind of grass they use in the courts.  This new grass, does it affect your game any way?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No.  
 
Q.  Is it better or does it make any difference?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  As long as it's sleek and green, I'm happy.  
 
Q.  It's hard for you to be an unobtrusive figure.  In the last couple months, do you think you've been able to go about your job quietly, not getting the publicity, and that's helped you? 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  To be quite honest, it's never fazed me, even if I was getting publicity.  You're right, it is a nice thing when no one is talking about you, you're sneaking through the draw, playing some good tennis.  That's when things can happen.  So it is a nice feeling.  
 
Q.  I know you said you don't set yourself any goals.  Do you feel like after the injuries, having got back to where you are now, do you think maybe are you ahead of schedule?  Do you think you've got back to somewhere near your best quicker than you expected?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  You know, I know what I'm capable of doing myself.  A lot of times I am too hard on myself, especially on the practice court.  But, you know, there's been times, a lot of times, when I think like other players, I play with pain.  That's just the worst thing.  Tennis is hard enough playing on the court than playing with some niggling IT band, your knee, something like that.  It's just a relief, it's just nice, you know, since the start of the year to be healthy and play with no pain, you know, nothing that's really in the back of your mind saying, "What's going on?"  
 
Q.  How much did the fans help you today?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  They're great.  They help a lot.  Obviously, you know, when I'm on the court, I concentrate pretty good, no matter who the crowd is going for.  It's definitely nice to hear the crowd on my side. 
 
Q.  I've heard that you've become very interested in surfing, that you have spent some time in San  Diego County doing it.  Is that accurate?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah.  I actually moved from Florida to San  Diego. 
 
Q.  Where do you live?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Cardiff by the Sea. 
 
Q.  How good a surfer are you now?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Not bad (smiling).  
 
Q.  Are you Top 10 in the world?  I'm making a tennis reference. 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I'm No.  1 in tennis, come on (laughter).  I love it.  Compared to what I used to do off the court, I think my dad and my agents and my mum are very happy I'm surfing.  It's a lot more safer than what I'm used to doing.  It's great, great exercise, great for the body, great for the mind. 
 
Q.  Are there any comparisons?  A lot of people think tennis is a game that has a lot of beauty.  I would think that surfing has the same appeal.  Do you find any links between the two? 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No, no.  
 
Q.  Thank you. 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  (Smiling). 
 
Q.  Why did you move to San  Diego?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I've always loved California.  After Wimbledon, close to this time last year, I went for a surfing trip for a week.  I ended up going to San  Diego, hooked up with some guys there.  I just fell in love with the place.  I fell in love with the people there.  I just felt like it was time for a change of, you know, location for me.  I guess I felt like maybe Florida is a little bit unlucky for me.  
 
Q.  Makes for harder traveling, though. 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, I mean, an-hour-and-40-minute drive from LA.  You have the direct flights pretty much anywhere from LA, so it's nice. 
 
Q.  I'm sure most people would want to win their national Grand Slam perhaps above all others.  I get the sense you feel this one would really look rather nice, Wimbledon? 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  It's obviously nice.  It's always been my dream.  It's way, way too early to even think about anything like that.  Monday I have an extremely tough match.  That's where my focus is.  
 
Q.  Do you feel more sort of naturally suited to this championship perhaps than any other?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I must say I feel very comfortable on all surfaces.  Obviously, grass is one of my favorite surfaces.  You know, I've had good results on pretty much every surface, so... .  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT