AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 15, 2003
Mark Philippoussis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  In terms of your career, do you think you've had a more important win than that, in terms of where you've been?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  That was big.  You know, I'm happy the way I fought out the match tonight.  You know, I stuck with my game plan, which was chip and charging, you know, making him pass, making him play.  It paid off.  I mean, it's tough because the guy's seeing the ball like a football, playing so well at the moment, winning in Chennai, semis last week.  Hung in there and was extremely happy to win a match like that.  
 
Q.  Are you surprised at how well you're playing, having had such a long time off? 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, I think last week was huge for me, playing those three matches.  It just relaxed me.  I think the biggest thing was, when you come back from an injury is hoping that match play, you can hit the ball well, but just playing those big points well, you know, not having anything negative in your mind like the first tournament, if I had a breakpoint, it was like "Ugh, if I chip and charge, it's not good enough, he's going to pass me."  So many negatives going through my mind.  Playing the matches last week, breakpoint, I got to chip and charge, if he passes me, too good.  That's what my thinking was going into the matches here tonight.  The guy's passing me everywhere with his backhand.  Kept on doing it.  If you pass me again, win the match, too good.  Under pressure it gets tough to pass.  I'm a big guy, I'd like to think I'm a little intimidating when I'm at the net.  That's where I play my best tennis, is at the net.  So, you know, I just got to go out there and play my game.  
 
Q.  Being so relaxed about things, is that because you haven't put expectations on yourself, and that's helping you?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I'm just not going to do that anymore.  I'm not going to put any pressure on myself.  Obviously you're going to have expectations; you want to do well.  I'm not going to put pressure on myself.  I'm just going to go out there, play my game, which is attacking, come in when I can.  Most importantly, I'm enjoying being back on the tour.  I'm enjoying those tough situations, the crowd cheering.  That's what I play tennis for.  I'm just happy to have the opportunity to get back and doing those things that I love doing.  
 
Q.  Is there any added satisfaction beating a guy who's been so hot over the last year, really?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah, he's playing great tennis.  Hat off to him.  The guy, he's  -- I think he's come such a long way for a last year where he started, where he ended up.  He's, you know, obviously started the year so well.  You know, I mean, there's no pressure for me going out there.  I don't think people were expecting me to win, to be quite honest.  But I like that, you know?  I'm not going to go out there and think I can't win.  I'm going to  -- obviously, everyone's going to try to win.  I'm going to go out there and be positive.  But, you know, again, it doesn't matter who I play or what I do, as long as I just play my game.  And if I do the right thing and fight well, and if I lose, I'll be happy, but as long as I do the right thing. 
 
Q.  Probably after tonight people are going to expect a lot more.  Do the outside expectations get on you? 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No, I'm just going to go about my own way of doing the same thing, just going out there, enjoying myself, not expecting to win, just want to stay healthy, just enjoy my tennis, work on my game and just build my match play up.  
 
Q.  Without putting any expectations on yourself, do you still feel you can win the tournament?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah, I still feel that way.  I'd still say it again.  This is a match.  This is the second round.  I've got another match to go.  I'm just looking at that match.  My mind's just going to be on that match.  I think I can win the tournament.  I'm enjoying myself and I'm here.  
 
Q.  Joe Sirianni, have you spoken to him?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No, I'm so happy for him.  You honestly cannot meet a nicer guy than Joe.  He's so softly spoken, the guy's always in a great mood.  He's always been a great mood.  I'm extremely happy for him.  I hope he does well and keeps going.  I honestly do. 
 
Q.  Is he just a case of one of those  - he's 28, what, on Friday, I think  -  late-bloomers?  You think he can keep going?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Look at the guy.  He doesn't look 28, he probably looks 23, 24.  He's got wheels on him, he can run all day, very flamboyant.  I love the way he plays, very loose.  Got a lot of talent.  And, you know, I think someone like that, all he needs is to win a match like he did yesterday and just give himself some confidence, just give himself some self-belief thinking he can be with these guys on the court.  So, I mean, at the start I'm sure it's a little intimidating.  I think he'll do well. 
 
Q.  Any chance of doubles pairing?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No, no doubles for me.  I'm just going to concentrate on my singles.  
 
Q.  Your coach looked pretty happy tonight.  You've obviously been through a few over the years.  Is that really settled and stable, that sort of relationship? 
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah, you know, I've been through a lot, and Mac has stuck with me.  We've stuck together.  That's very important.  It makes the relationship so much stronger.  I really enjoy my  -- his company on and off the court.  We get along well.  He knows that  I can get fired up.  He knows when I'm on the court practicing I'm pretty laid back, I'm pretty relaxed.  So he's great.  He's known me since I was 13 years old.  He's gotten to know me a lot as a person.  He speaks a lot with my dad to try and understand me more as a player and as a person.  I think that helps the relationship and is helping us a lot. 
 
Q.  Does it help a lot he's seen your game from that early stage and knows what you can and can't do?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah.  I mean, he knows  -- he's starting to know me  -- obviously he knows my game.  I think most importantly he's starting to know me as a person.  I think that's more important than anything else.  If he knows how I feel off the court or how I'm feeling towards going to a match, you know, that's  I think a plus, seeing if I'm a little nervous, talking to me, maybe having a practice session, that I might be a little nervous, just sitting back for an extra five, ten minutes, having a drink, relax, then go back out and work on what we have to do.  You know, the amount of things we went through, I think we learned too.  We've obviously learned a lot through the last few years, what's great for me, what's not, how many times should I practice, how many times should I not.  It's just a learning curve I think, we're both learning every day. 
 
Q.  You've been cast as an outsider in Australian tennis.  Do you feel like you're in the fold now?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I've always been my own person.  I'm never going to change.  I think in the past, Aussies, the guys have gone out, they've gone to dinner together, practiced together.  I just don't do that.  Doesn't mean I'm not a nice guy.  I just do my own thing, I have my own friends, I do my own thing.  When I'm out on the court, when it comes up to being a team, you know, I'm all for it.  I'll give my heart, I'll give everything toward it.  On the tour, you know, I do my own thing.  It's as simple as that.  I just do things my own way.  I'm my own person.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT