AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 13, 2003
Mark Philippoussis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  First question, please. 


Q.  Mark, four sets.  Tough one to open up with? 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah, I mean, the guy had a huge serve, just trying to block it black, make him play.  Overall, I'm pretty happy with the way I played.  I was pretty solid, kept my concentration well, which was for me the most important thing.  That's what I wanted to work on, and just play a solid match.

Q.  Given your start, were you a bit disappointed though that it did go to four?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No, not at all.  Obviously it would have been nice to have been a tiebreaker and be home already.  But, you know, I ended up losing the third.  For me to go and win the fourth, I'm actually happy it ended up that way.  I fought well and concentrated well on my serve and played solid tennis.  You know, I'm happy with the way it went tonight.

Q.  Tough one coming up, too, Paradorn of course on the back of his great month or so.

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah, there's no easy matches so it doesn't matter who you play.  Obviously, he won in India so he's playing great tennis.  I think maybe he semied in Sydney.  You know, he's got a lot of confidence at the moment.  But, again, I've just got to go out and play my own game, just concentrate like I did tonight and go out there and enjoy myself and fight.

Q.  Have you played him before? 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Hopman Cup years ago. 

Q.  I haven't seen you play live until tonight this summer.  You were very sure and feeling nimble as well.

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah, I felt like I moved well today when I had to, some running forehands and, you know, at the net.  Every match is getting a little better.  Like I said, last week at Kooyong, it was the perfect week for me to play three matches.  You build up my confidence slowly.  When I go out and play the match, I don't think about my knee, I don't think, you know, "I don't know if I should move quickly for that, if something's going to happen."  I'm pretty committed.  Even today, tonight, I had a jump smash and, you know, I just play in the moment.  And I felt good.  My body feels good.  It was a fairly long match and my body feels good.  Tomorrow I'll have an easy day, have a massage and get ready for the next day. 

Q.  Considering your lack of tennis and playing the No. 11 seed, do you feel as if you're on a bit of a situation where any result you get is a bit of a bonus when you play Srichaphan? 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, as I was saying, there's no easy matches.  You know, he's playing great tennis at the moment, but it's a Grand Slam, you know, anything can happen.  You just worry about yourself and five sets, anything can happen in five sets.  My body feels pretty good.  So, again, obviously he's hitting the ball well but I'm going to go out there and fight like I did tonight and just play solid and just play within myself, you know.

Q.  If you haven't played him a lot in the past, have you been speaking to people about him?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No, I've seen him.  I know exactly how he plays.  I've seen a lot of him.

Q.  Are you comfortable with the way you're going to be approaching it, any changes, anything you'll do different?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  He's got a big serve also.  He likes to hit the ball hard.  I've got to make him play.  So, you know, the way I play is aggressive, you know, coming to the net.  I'm going to come to the net, I'm going to be aggressive off the ground.  That's the way I play, and that's the way I'm going to approach that match.

Q.  The way that tennis is moving at the moment, a lot of Asian players are almost drawing a bit of a home crowd themselves, this being the home tournament, home Grand Slam for them.  How do you see that sort of developing?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah, I mean, they've got some great support.  We definitely don't have a shortage of Asians here.  So they have a lot of support out there.  I'm very, very happy for them.  I'm really happy to see those guys step up and play some solid tennis.  You know, just I think Paradorn's just making everyone in Asia stand up and just take watch and they're starting to follow him now.  Kim  -- sorry, Lee last week with a win, it was incredible.  So I'm very happy for those guys.

Q.  What about your own support?  Does it lift you?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Oh, definitely.  I mean, the support out there, the atmosphere, it's so electrifying.  That's what it's all about, playing those home matches, having that home support, it is an advantage, there' no doubt about that.  It's like a Davis Cup match out there.  There's Aussie fans and the chants.  It's funny, and it relaxes you, kind of makes you laugh.  Definitely pumps you up.

Q.  You hear a lot of it?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Oh, you definitely hear it, yeah, sure.

Q.  Do you hear individual things?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I concentrate pretty good on the court, especially tonight.  But you hear some things, yeah.

Q.  Have you been tempted to turn around and say something back?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No, no, not at all.  Not at all.  Like I said, I think guys out there pretty much reply on each other's comments.  That's pretty funny, so...

Q.  Speaking of Davis Cup, you won today and Wayne won today.  Looks like the team is coming together in form. 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah.  You know, I don't think anyone's looking to Davis Cup now.  Everyone's thinking about the Grand Slam.  Lleyton, myself, Wayne, Woodbridge, you know, we're playing the Aussie Open.  That's what we're thinking about.  When the time comes to play the Davis Cup, we'll come together as a team and I'm sure we'll work well together and everything will be positive.  We're just looking forward to playing.

Q.  What about your own game, is this a tournament you can build into, work your way into?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah, I mean, anything can happen at a Grand Slam.  I just need some matches.  You know, last week was great for me to play three matches and, you know, my game's getting better.  My game's there every match.  It's getting a little better.  My concentration was there today, like  -- whereas last week, some big points I lost my concentration, and that's what it's all about, just staying positive in five sets, playing those big points well.  Today, you know, there were some big points, I chipped and charged, made him pass me, he missed the pass, all of a sudden it's a break.  I took advantage of those breaks and I'm happy. 

Q.  You're a bit older now, more experienced, you've played more five-setters and Slams.

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I'm definitely getting older, I'm getting more experience.  Then on the other side I'm getting injured and not playing any tournaments so I'm trying to get back to match toughness so it's kind of tough. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT