WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2002
Mark Philippoussis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions. 


Q.  Pretty slow start.  Was that frustrating?  You got back into it again. 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Obviously, wasn't the start I wanted.  But I don't really think I did anything wrong.  He played a great game.  He came out of the blocks a lot faster than me.  Yeah, he just took advantage of the slow start on my part.  But I'm not really too disappointed about that. 

Q.  You seemed at times to be frustrated at yourself, yelling at yourself. 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I'm just telling myself to concentrate because I put myself  -- I put a lot of pressure on myself, you know, put myself in tough situations that I shouldn't have been in, you know, with some easy volley misses.  You know, I was just telling myself to concentrate and just to be solid. 

Q.  Serve worked in fits and spurts today.  You always seemed to end up in credit.  Is that something that you're concerned about?  There were a lot of double-faults, sometimes two in a row. 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No, the good thing today was when I did double-fault, I came out with an ace straight after it.  But, again, I've got to cut those out.  You know, as long as I keep my head down and fight my way back and save those breakpoints, obviously I was happy with the way I played the breakpoints today.  But I think as the tournament goes on, I definitely, you know, want to serve less double-faults and cut those easy mistakes out. 

Q.  Is it just a question of not having been in the big match environment for a long time?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No, I think it all comes down to concentration.  You know, it's just a routine I go in every time I serve  - you know, you're bouncing the ball, ball toss up, jumping into the serve.  A lot of double-faults, the ball toss is either too low and I can't jump into the serve or I'm just not jumping into the serve, and there's no racquet head speed.  You know, as long as I just remember a couple of things before the serve, I feel like I've always got some good rhythm. 

Q.  Next round you will meet Richard Krajicek who has been injured a long time, as you.  What do you think about that?  Is it surprising for you?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No, no.  Obviously, being a past champion here, he loves the tournament, and he's a great player on the grass.  You know, one good thing I know, he's going to be serve-volleying first and second serve, so I can expect that.  But, like I said so many times, it doesn't really worry me who's on the other end.  As long as I do the right thing on my part and concentrate on my serves and make him play on his serves, you know, I'm going to be dangerous. 

Q.  How is your knee?  Do you still have the injections?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I had the injection already.  My knee's feeling great, so, yeah.

Q.  When was the last one? 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Just before Lipton  -- Ericsson  -- Nasdaq (smiling). 

Q.  I'd like to ask you a question on a comment that John McEnroe had in his book about players on the tour.  He said the top players not only have to be self-centered, but they have to be selfish in a way, and that cockiness is a form of self-survival.  Could you comment on that?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I think everyone's different.  Everyone's got their own personality.  You know, I don't think you need to be cocky to become a champion.  You know, if it takes for me to become a champion to be cocky, then I'm going to find another way.  It's just not how I am.  Like I say, it depends on the individual, what works for them.  You know, sometimes by acting a little cocky, they can play a little better, get a little more pumped, that's up to the individual.  But I think everyone's different, so...

Q.  You draw such attention, adulation, any place you go from Miami to Australia to here.  How do you prevent that from totally going to your head? 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  You know, it's just great having the fans out there and cheering you on, knowing you're going to have support at all the tournaments you're going to.  It's very important.  But for myself, you know, all you want to do when you're a kid is become a professional tennis player, and you want people to know you.  Once that happens, you sort of don't wish that anymore when you're away from it.  But coming to the tennis, you have to expect that, and it comes with the territory, comes with the game.  I definitely don't take  -- doesn't make me cocky.  If anything, it will just, you know, make me appreciate the game and appreciate the fans more.

Q.  In terms of fame, do you ever say to yourself, "Be careful what you ask for," since now you're noticed everywhere? 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah, like I said, you're a kid and you want to be noticed, you want to be stopped when you get older, people to know you.  But, yeah, when you're off the court and you're at home or going somewhere and relaxing, it depends.  It can be a little frustrating.  Depends on how some people approach you.  Most of the time they're very good.  You know, they come up to you and say, "I enjoy watching you play.  Keep up the good work."  I really appreciate that.

Q.  Is it a testament to more than surgical knowledge that this match with Richard could even take place, or a testament to yours and his determination to get back? 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I don't know.  I know that Richard had trouble with his shoulder.  He had a shoulder surgery.  Obviously, you know, he's worked hard to get back from where he was.  You know, I think a player like Richard  -- you know, once you're out there playing those matches, it all comes back to you quickly.  That's the way it felt like for me.  You know, I think for both of us, it's going to take time.  And it did take time to, you know, stop thinking about my knee or his shoulder in the back of your mind, just go out there and play.  But I don't think we'll be thinking about that.  You know, it's the fourth round, it's the second week, and it's Wimbledon.  You know, I want to go out there to win.  So, you know, that's all it is.

Q.  The injections, it sounds horrible.  Is it very simple?  Is it painful? 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  It's pretty simple, but it's pretty painful, yeah.

Q.  Does it take long or is it just one single injection?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No, it's two.  So it's six all up because you have a three-week gap.  You take one injection to numb the area of where the other injection is going to go in for the synovitis. 

Q.  Do you dread it?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah.  I don't like needles at all.  It's not the best moment of all.

Q.  But it's the price?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I feel great after it.  Yeah, definitely feels like it helps me.

Q.  What shape is your knee going to be in when you're 50 years old after doing this?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I'm not going to look at that.

Q.  Have the doctors told you you might have trouble in later life at all?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No.  I'm sure I'll still be skydiving age of 50. 

Q.  How did you find your grip out on Court  2?  Kiefer was sort of looking at the baseline a couple of times like it was a bit slippery.  Serena has fallen over four or five times in the first set of her match. 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  They're staying back, I'm serve-volleying.  I'm not doing too much movement around the back, and that is where it's worn out.  But, yeah, I'm serve-volleying, don't have any problems.

Q.  That's not something you're worrying about with your knee trouble?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Not at all, no. 

Q.  You served something like 81 aces for the tournament so far.  Is that an aim you go into each match, to serve as many aces as you can?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No, not at all.  I just want to get a good percentage of first serves in.  You know, if it's an ace, it's a plus.  But just going out there to get rhythm on my serve, trying to play some good serve and volley tennis. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT