WIMBLEDON
June 24, 2002
Mark Philippoussis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions for Mark. 


Q.  Good start, Mark? 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah, a little nervous, I think.  Didn't really have any timing on my serve until pretty much the start of the third set.  Besides that, you know, I felt like I played okay for the first match.

Q.  You had a lot of publicity leading up.  Were you relieved to get out on the court and play?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah, definitely.  I didn't play last year, obviously.  As I was saying, I was nervous before the match.  Just looking forward to it.  It's just great to be back, you know, on the courts here.

Q.  Can you talk about the changes that you've gone through since '99 and kind of your approach to tennis now, your thoughts about your life in general?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I think a few years ago I would have taken a lot of things in my life for granted.  Now I look at life in a totally different perspective, as well as my personal life and life on the tennis court, too. When I was on the court, I was young, I never thought anything was going to go wrong.  I was having fun.  I thought, "There's a lot of years ahead of me."  Until something happens, that makes you open your eyes and realize that you never know when your career can end.  So just go as hard as you can.  That's how I feel now.  I'm taking each day at a time, just trying to go out there and enjoy myself.  It's tough to think ahead.  I just want to think about it now.  Pretty much I want to stay relaxed. 

Q.  You moved out of Miami and kind of sold off some of your toys, I guess.  Is that fair to say?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah. 

Q.  Why did you do that?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, I mean, I had my third surgery.  I was in a wheelchair for two months, in bed.  The only thing you can do is do a lot of thinking.  I thought about if I was happy in my life, and I wasn't.  Things that you think make you happy don't.  The thing was, I wasn't really happy in Miami - and I thought I was.  I just, you know, decided to move, go somewhere that's definitely a lot more quieter, where there's not the same distractions around me as there was in Miami.  Just wanted to try and give myself a fresh start.

Q.  You still haven't played a heap of tennis this year.  How far from your physical peak do you think you are?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  It's going to take a while.  It's definitely going to take the whole of this year.  It's tough for me to rush it because, you know, after the Australian Open, I tried to work on my legs and get my legs really strong, and I injured myself again.  I can't do that.  I've got to take my time, you know, just take it a week at a time and try to get my legs gradually strong.  As I was saying, it's tough to look ahead.  But I've got to take things, you know, as they come.

Q.  Have you got seven matches in the legs, do you think? 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I never think too far ahead.  For a Grand Slam, even if I didn't, I'm still going to try.  But I'm feeling pretty good.  You know, I can't complain at all.

Q.  You had a reputation as kind of the good-time guy, the party guy.  Is it hard to just kind of cut that off once people kind of associated you with that?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I mean, it's not like  -- I definitely partied a lot.  It's not like I don't party at all.  If I'm not at a tournament, I've got a couple weeks off, I'm going to go out for a couple nights.  It's just not going to be the same as it was, that's all.  If I train hard on the court, then you can enjoy yourself off the court.  You know, you deserve that.  It's not like I'm never going to go out again.  I'm still having fun.  But just, you know, trying to even it out. 

Q.  People would have looked at you from the outside and thought, "He has every reason to be really happy with how his life is, maybe even with the injuries."  Pat Cash just came out with a book where he talked about being so miserable that he thought of ending his life.  Can you talk about what forces make it difficult to be truly happy and content?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I cannot speak for anyone else.  I have no idea how he felt.  But for me, the most important thing in my life is my family and their health.  Everything else comes second.  So I'm the luckiest guy in the world.  I have nothing at all to complain about.  You know, even after three surgeries, I'm still the luckiest guy in the world.  I still have two legs to run around on.  I'm blessed.  You know, I couldn't see anything that would make me, you know, become, you know  -- think about things like that.  Like I said, I'm loving life.  I love my family.  I love my friends.  They're all healthy.  I'm healthy.  That's what it's all about. 

Q.  Is it easy to lose that focus, the perspective that family and health is important when you have so many peripheral things come your way?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No, not at all.  Like I said, if that's your number one priority, then nothing else matters.

Q.  Enqvist next.  What are your thoughts on playing him?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  He's a dangerous player, no matter what surface you play him on.  He hits the ball nice and flat.  He's going to be dangerous.  He's got good returns, he can slap some back.  Again, it doesn't really matter who I play.  As long as I go out there.  Obviously, you've got to adapt your game a little bit to who you play.  But I've just got to go out there and play percentage tennis.  I definitely want to get some more first serves in.  You know, sometimes I get a little slack, tense, I miss those easy volleys because there's no  -- yeah, just my mind is not there.  If I see a ball floating in the air, instead of going forward and putting it away, I'm waiting for it.  I just hit it with no direction at all.  That's what I did a couple times today, and I lost my serve.  I can't afford to do that against Thomas.  I've got to go out there and think about my serve and take it a point at a time, just try and make him play on his serves.

Q.  You were saying at Queen's that your new philosophy is to fight for every point.  Is concentration a part of that?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Definitely.  If you were out there every point fighting, it's going to be hard to concentrate the whole match.  But that's what's it all about.  If I keep doing that, I'm going to get mentally tougher.  That's what I need, I need to get mentally tougher, just focus, commit myself.  That's all.  If I'm going to serve-volleying, committing to the first serve, the first volley, you know, I play good tennis.  If I'm going out there half-hearted on some of the volleys, I'm going to make some silly shots.  As long as I go out there and compete, stay positive, stay focused, you know, that's what I'm looking for.

Q.  Are you doing anything different this year in terms of renting a house around here?  Has your mom come over?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Mom's here.

Q.  Is she doing the cooking?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Doing the cooking.

Q.  Who is it, your mom and dad?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  My mom, Dad, my best friend Charlie, his fiancee, best friend Billy from Australia.  Got the full house.

Q.  How far are you from your peak?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I'm fit.  I feel good.  I'm definitely feeling as good as I have for a long time.  Like anyone, there's no doubt you can get fitter.  There's no doubt I can get fitter, I can get stronger.  But I'm feeling pretty good. 

Q.  Of the things that you let go of, the toys, can you say what you got rid of?  You bought some horses, is that right?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah, I have two horses, and six dogs. 

Q.  What did you get rid of?  The sports cars?  The motorcycles?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I kept one motorcycle, but pretty much got rid of the rest.  You know, the sports cars.

Q.  Do you feel like the best years of your tennis are ahead of you or behind you? 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  They're definitely ahead of me.  There's no doubt about that. 

Q.  Especially here, do you feel like there's unfinished business for you, the fact that your big serve plays so well here?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah.  I mean, this is a dream for me to win.  I know I can win it.  I'm going to give it my best this year.  But if it's not this year, I'm going to give it my best and come back next year.  But I'm still here this year and I'm still in it, just like everyone.  People come to the tournaments to win, they're not going to be happy, "Okay, couple of matches, whatever, think about next week."  Everybody's here to win.  That's what it's all about.

Q.  Were you going to beat Sampras that day when you got hurt here?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  You never know.  I mean, you never know what was going to happen.  Definitely wasn't the way I wanted to get out.

Q.  Is that sort of the pivot of your career, that match, in some respects because you had that injury?  It was almost like you were going to win the match one moment, then the next moment you were on the ground.  Seemed like a pivot in the career. 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  It's just a bit of a stumble, that's all that it was.  Can't do anything about that.  It was supposed to happen for a reason.  You know, just a little hurdle in my life, something I had to get over, and I'm over it.  That's all that it was. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT