US OPEN
September 2, 2000
Mark Philippoussis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question for Mark.  
 
Q.  Mark, how's your knee, and did it affect you much in the match today?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No, there was just one game when he broke me, I was fine.  But then at 5-4, I just hit the return, I went to recover and I was fine.  Then I was walking to the other side, I had some pain right where I had the surgery, and I got scared for a moment.  I played out the point, I didn't feel anything, then I walked on the outside again and it was hurting.  While I was running around, I didn't feel anything.  But when I was walking, it was really weird, especially when I was leaning on my heels.  Once I was on my toes, I was fine.  After he came and rubbed it I had no problem.  It was just for that one game, I got a little scared.  Not a problem after that. 
 
Q.  Feels okay?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah, no problem.  
 
Q.  Is it the same sort of feeling you've had there in the past?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No, it was just  one, maybe four points, that I was a little scared.  I thought, "I don't want to take a chance," called them out, bit of a massage, it was fine.  Didn't feel anything.  
 
Q.  So you wouldn't say it gave you any doubts about the Olympics?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No, no.  Just like I said, those four points.  I was 110 percent, haven't felt better physically.  So I'm good. 
 
Q.  What did you put that down to today, the match?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, I mean I've got to take my hat off to him.  He played a great match.  He served big.  Had breakpoints, had chances, but he  -- he served big.  I mean his second serves were big also.  They were hitting the lines, he was being aggressive, and he played well today.  He played great tennis. 
 
Q.  You didn't look like you got your serve really working at full throttle today, especially the 9th game.
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah, I mean that was bad.  But he came out swinging on every shot and made some good returns to break me.  But, you know, a few double-faults, every service game I lost was finished with a double-fault.  I just wish that if he would have broken me, it could be with a winner or something else.  But he just put the pressure on me and he deserved it today. 
 
Q.  Are you particularly down on yourself for having served those double-faults?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No.  You know, this result doesn't surprise me.  The whole summer has been disappointing.  But, you know, it's a Grand Slam; I was trying to turn it up.  But it's just tough all of a sudden to, you know, to whip it in gear and to expect to -- like nothing's been happening over the past few weeks and expect to play well.  I tried my best.  It's just, you know, I was just  -- just started a whole avalanche from the start of the summer.  And every week just hasn't been great.  So, you know, unfortunately I just got to put this behind me and just look forward to the Olympics. 
 
Q.  Do you have any thoughts on what sort of started this bit of a slump that you're going through?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No.  I mean, you know, just go I think back to basics is the best thing for me, just go back to the way I was when I was 18, 19, do the same drills, enjoy myself, just enjoy playing tennis and give it my all.  I just got to go back to the basics. 
 
Q.  Is that something you've discussed with Mike, going back to the basics?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, with my father actually, too.  So, yeah.  
 
Q.  The double-faults, was that because you were nervous or because you were just going for  --?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I wouldn't say nervous.  I wasn't really going for it, too.  All the double-faults where I was just trying to kick it in, and serve and volley, the ball toss was a little bit too far in front.  I couldn't get enough kick on it.  I think I pretty much  -- all of them hit the tape.  Yeah, so... 
 
Q.  Would you say that the off-court distractions that you had recently had contributed to this sort of, you know, slump?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  It was definitely in the back of my mind, you know, the first couple of tournaments  definitely in the summer. But after that, I was fine.  
 
Q.  What's your program leading into the Games, Mark?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I'm just going to go back to Melbourne, see my mother and sister, see my friends, just relax, see my girlfriend and just train.  Train there. 
 
Q.  So you're training in  --?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Melbourne, uh-huh.  
 
Q.  So when will you go back? Fairly soon?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I think, yeah, fairly soon.  
 
Q.  Is it a distraction for you to have the Olympics coming so soon after the US Open?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No.  You know, now I've got plenty of time until it's on.  So there's no distraction at all.  I've got plenty of time to relax, plenty of time to train for it.  
 
Q.  Was it a distraction though going into the tournament, thinking about the Olympics?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No, definitely not.  This is the US Open, it's a Grand Slam.  Everyone's going to focus on this and give it 110 percent.  You know, when it's over, then you relax and then you go into the Olympics. But everyone's mind's on this tournament.  
 
Q.  The Olympics is going to be quite a different scene, sort of more of a team thing, you're representing your country.  How do you feel about that?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  You know, I'm going to represent my country, it's simple.  There's going to be nothing else on my mind.  I'm just going to go there, play my matches for my country, and that's it.  There's going to be nothing else to think about, nothing else to talk about.  Just go and try to get a medal for my country.  That's all that's on my mind, nothing else.  
 
Q.  Would you march in the opening ceremony?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Of course.  Definitely. 
 
Q.  You're not worried at all about team harmony in the Australian tennis outfit?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I'm going to go represent my country.  It's as simple as that.  I'm not going to worry about all the stuff that's been going on or that's been said. 
 
Q.  Is that going to be easy to do, though?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Sure.  I haven't seen anything.  I'm going to go out there, represent my country like I always have, always loved doing.  And like the last Olympics, it was a thrill.  It was a great atmosphere staying in the Olympic village with all the athletes.  It was incredible.  I think because I've already played the Olympics, I know what to expect and, you know, I'm just going to try and, like I said, just try and come up with a medal, do my best. 
 
Q.  Have you had an opportunity to heal the rift with Pat Rafter?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No, no.  I don't want an opportunity.  He said what he had to say.  That's final.  You know, I'm just worried about myself and play my matches.  
 
Q.  You don't want to discuss it with him at all?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  There's nothing to discuss.  
 
Q.  You didn't talk to him at all?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No.  
 
Q.  Are you friendly at all? Do you talk?  Do you say hello to each other?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  We wouldn't go to dinner or anything.  
 
Q.  What about with the other Davis Cup players?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah, I mean, you know, there are only a couple of guys who said something that upset me.  I've lost respect for them.  But, you know, like I said, there was a couple of guys and the captain that said things.  And other guys, I have no problems with.  They said nothing, and I'll say hello and that's it, like I said. But I wouldn't go out to dinner with them.  
 
Q.  Is it going to be more exciting for you to go to this Olympics since it's your home country?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Definitely.  Without a doubt.  
 
Q.  More pressure?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I wouldn't say pressure, no.  It's going to be a great atmosphere knowing that everyone's going to be cheering for us.  You know, I haven't played a match at home, you know, for my country for a long time.  So I'm looking forward to it.  
 
Q.  Are you going to take a break after the Olympics?
 
MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Just a little bit.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT