US OPEN
August 30, 2000
Mark Philippoussis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Mark. 
 
Q. You must be very pleased with the way you played today. Are you?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Yeah, I'm happy about the way I played. I was pumped and ready,
this is the US Open. So everyone's gonna give it their all on the court and that's what I
did today, I just came out and concentrated on today's match and left everything on the
court and I was happy. 
 
Q. What was it like to wait three days for your first match?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: US Open's the only tournament, the Grand Slam, that does that. I
knew that from the start I could be playing on Wednesday. So, you know, you're prepared. 
 
Q. What were you most happy about with your game today?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I was just happy. I was positive out there, very relaxed, enjoying
myself. I had two loose games (inaudible) -- two times I got broken. Besides that, I just
lost a bit of concentration, you know, double break up, and sort of relaxed a little bit
too much. 
 
Q. Mark, no aches and pains anywhere?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: No. I'm as healthy as I've ever been. So I feel good. 
 
Q. Your part of the draw has opened up with Pat and Kuerten being out. What are your
thoughts on that?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I've always said Grand Slams are a funny thing, anything can
happen. Draws can open up. Main thing is to concentrate on your match. As long as you go
out there and concentrate on your match, anything can happen. Things can open up, you can
get a little lucky. That doesn't mean that it's a breeze for anyone. But obviously they're
tough matches, you know, those guys have played to win. You still got to win to get
through. 
 
Q. What did you know about him before you played him? 
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Sorry? 
 
Q. What did you know about him?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Not much. I've obviously seen him play a little bit, a Spanish guy,
likes to run around his backhand, got a good forehand. Pretty much the same really, they
all pretty much play the same game. 
 
Q. This is a guy who thinks hard courts are some kind of disease. He doesn't come on
them too often. Could you tell he was uncomfortable? It's the first hard court match he's
played since the Australian Open. 
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: It's surprising. It's not like he's a bad player. He's got a big
serve, big kicker, heavy grounders. As you could see the last couple of days with hard
court tennis, you can win on hard court. The ball's bouncing up nice and high, it's a
little quicker than last year I think. The ball's a little lighter. It's a bit of an
advantage for the serve-and-volleyers and the guys that like to attack. But as you saw in
last night's match, Spanish players can be dangerous on this court. 
 
Q. How did you find the conditions out there? Are they to your liking?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I love them. Ball's bouncing up high, it's quick. It's nice. 
 
Q. How would you compare your confidence now to the time you went to the final?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: The year I went to the final, I mean, I wasn't seeded. I was taking
it match by match. The same thing happened, the draw started to open up, and that's what
happened. You know, I never -- 
 
Q. Are you playing better now than you were then?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I think I am, yeah. I feel like I'm more mature. I feel like I'm a
lot stronger, physically and mentally. I feel a lot more relaxed. You know, it was great
when I got to the final here a couple years ago, and I gained a lot of experience from
that. So it definitely helped me. 
 
Q. Having gone to the final here, even though it was two years ago, does that give you
confidence now?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Sure. I mean I love playing here. I'm very comfortable in New York.
I love playing in front of the crowd. I get good support here. The New York crowd is very
vocal, they love their tennis, they're very fair when they're watching the matches.
They're enjoying the tennis. They applaud for, you know, both the players when good points
have been played. It's very exciting here. There are -- like I said, they're a lot louder
than your average tournaments, and I like playing in front of situations like this. 
 
Q. Your countrymen came out here to see you, too. I saw them waving Australian flags in
the crowd. Do you notice that when you're out there playing.
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Yeah. I think besides Australia, I think Wimbledon's number one
where a lot of Australians are there, and I think the US Open would be the second one.
They obviously come out here to be in New York, have a bit of fun, you know, they really
love their tennis. 
 
Q. What's the most important piece of advice that Mike has imparted to you?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: You know, I think just, you know, nothing's like changed
drastically. Just the same. Just be confident in myself, play my game, just go out there,
enjoy my tennis, be happy. That's it. You know, obviously my work ethic has stepped up a
couple of notches, and, you know, I've been training on the court before here in Miami, in
the 90s, even 100s for two and a half hours during the day when it's the hottest. It
definitely feels like it made me a lot stronger. Like today, where I normally think it's
hot, it's not as hot as I would normally think it is after last week. 
 
Q. You had the laser eye surgery earlier. Why did you decide to do that?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I pretty much couldn't see. I was playing tennis and I couldn't see
the expression on the other guy's face. The ball was blurry until it got to my side of the
court. Sometimes I couldn't read the signs, the sponsorship on the fence on the opposite
side. I had really -- I was short-sighted. So I thought -- I also had my knee done, my
knee surgery in New York. I thought it was the best time to have my eyes done. It pretty
much happened where - just before the US Open last year, I played Indianapolis and I
played a night match. And I came back from my surgery, I couldn't hardly see anything at
night. Especially my night matches were really tough, especially on the returns. I just
felt like I couldn't get my eye in. I came over here for the surgery. It's incredible, the
difference. 
 
Q. Had you been wearing contacts? 
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I tried. I couldn't. It would move around, it was terrible. It used
to be a terrible feeling trying to put my fingers in my eyes. I felt like I was trying to
pluck out my eyeball or something. 
 
Q. What is the sensation when you first come out of that surgery and blink open your
eyes for the first time?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: It's weird. The whole way through the laser treatment your eyes are
open. They sticky-tape your eyelids so you can't blink, they numb your eyes so you can't
blink. The whole time you're seeing exactly what's happening to your eye. With a laser,
they cut off the top of your eye and then they do the surgery and cover it up again. I
mean it's weird, the whole time you've got your eye open. 
 
Q. But when it's over and your vision has changed --
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: When it's over, you wear these huge dark glasses, sunglasses, for a
few days. You're not allowed to watch TV, which was the worst thing for me. (Laughter.)
And pretty much you can't really see that much for the first day. After like a day and a
half, two days, I mean I was thinking what the hell was I doing? How could I play tennis
before? The change was incredible. 
 
Q. When did you have it done?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Around -- probably a week ago last year. Just after Indianapolis. 
 
Q. Any thoughts on your next opponent? Did you get a look at the draw?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Yeah. Obviously, I'm not sure who Jan-Michael Gambill is playing,
but anything can happen there. But, you know, I think I will be playing Jan-Michael
Gambill. 
 
Q. Have you played him before?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Yeah, I played him a few times. He has beaten me a couple of times,
so I'm really looking forward to the match on Friday. 
 
Q. He's playing Mardy Fish, a wildcard here. As you know, Jan-Michael's having a pretty
good year himself. Would you consider him a dangerous player?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: He's a dangerous player. He's always been a dangerous player. His
game, he comes out and he hits hard. It's sort of like he pretty much is on, you know,
gear five the whole way through from the start, and just rolls in on everything, you know,
attacks on a lot of balls. So same with anyone I'm going to play out there. I'm just going
to go out there, enjoy my game and concentrate on my game. I feel like if I take my time
and, you know, I'm enjoying myself out there, then I'll be dangerous. 
 
Q. How much of Pat's match did you watch last night? Did it give you any tips for
playing Spanish players?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: No, I watched a few games. Like I said, it doesn't really make me
think much. Like I said, I just go on the court, worry about myself. Obviously it's good
to know a few things about your opponent, what to do. But I pretty much just worry about
myself. 
 
Q. You watched it on TV?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Yeah. 
 
Q. Are you still communicating occasionally with Boris Becker?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I think he's had some things to worry about for himself, so I
haven't been talking to him much. 
 
Q. Jelena Dokic has been ejected from the tournament. There was an incident today. I'm
wondering what your thoughts are on this. How badly do you think this affects her
progress?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Well, to be honest, I feel sorry for her. What is she, 16 still?
That's incredible that she's 16, she's got at least, I don't know, 12 years to go. I don't
know how long. She's just so young. She should be enjoying herself. I mean, it's tough.
She's a great player. She's got a big future ahead of her. It's a shame. It's like, you
know, there's enough to think about on the court with your matches and tournaments to
distract you. 
 
Q. You played with her in Hopman Cup. Do you think she can shut this thing out of her
mind?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Obviously, girls mature faster than guys. At 16, things that are
happening to her, to deal with it can definitely be tough. She should be enjoying herself
a lot more. When I played mixed doubles with her at Hopman Cup, she doesn't look like a
happy 16-year-old girl. She's not. She's not smiling out there. I'd like to see her
enjoying herself a little bit more. 
 
Q. You said before you like to have your dad around you; you feel better. How would it
be for you if suddenly he wouldn't be allowed in the tournament? Would it be different for
you?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Definitely. I could say it's a different thing. Obviously, yeah, if
a member of your family can't be there, it's tough. Especially when her father's been with
her from the start, obviously starting her off from tennis. 
 
Q. Given all the drama that seems to follow him, do you think it would be better for
her to break away from him or if he was banned from the Tour?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: No, I don't think that's right. It's her father. He's brought her
here, he's helped her with her game, she's here because of him. I think it's just, you
know, obviously if he understands things a little bit more, has things explained to him
about media and such, when he can go in, when he can't go in, work out something with the
WTA, I'm not sure. But I don't think he should be banned, no. It's too harsh. 
 
Q. Have you had a bit of a rethink about your plan to move your base back to Australia?
Have you changed your mind about that?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I'll be staying in Miami. Yeah. 
 
Q. Why is that?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: It's too difficult being far away, that far away. I won't have a
chance to go -- don't have a chance to stay in Melbourne much when I'm on the Tour anyway.
It's so easy to stay in America. You know --  
 
Q. I've read comments from you before that you don't seem to like the press you get
back in Australia.
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: That was a big part, too. It's not nice going back home, being with
your family and having four channels, you know, the press being in front of your house
from seven in the morning until four in the afternoon and upsetting your mother and your
sister. I can take that. But when it's being put on my family, I don't like that. I have
no respect for that. So I'm not going to do that to my parents by moving back. 
 
Q. So you might not be living in Australia for the rest of your career?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Maybe. Maybe. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT