TMS - CINCINNATI
August 10, 2000
Mark Philippoussis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







THE MODERATOR: Questions for Mark. 

Q. (Inaudible)?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I just felt like I was playing ordinary today. The only thing kept
me in it, I was serving decent and, you know, volleying okay. But I didn't make him play
at all on each serve. There was no pressure on him pretty much. I got a break in the first
set, I had -- I think it was 4-all breakpoint, I was just pushing the ball back. He ran
around his backhand, dictated the points to his forehand. You know, 4-1 in a tiebreaker, I
shouldn't let that slip from me. I just wanted to go and hit a forehand. I didn't want to
hit it that hard. It just flew off my racquet, and I just didn't make it, plain and
simple. 4-1, I should have at least chipped and charge, do something to make him play, at
least hit a shot. Since 4-1, I hardly made him play. 4-3, I had a good serve. He hit a
great return, he ran around, he hit a forehand. That was a good point. Double-faulted and
two points after that, it just went so fast.

Q. (Inaudible)?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: No. I felt good out there. I felt good. I wasn't hitting the ball
well. I just didn't -- you know, I tried doing something. I tried mixing it up, I tried
coming in. I just -- you know, was -- you know that would have been a good one to sneak
out because I didn't play well. Those are kind of the ones you do want to try and get out
of somehow but it just wasn't there today. 

Q. You talked yesterday about things you're learning and maturing. Is that something
that you still have to work on, winning a match when maybe it's not your best day?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I mean I shouldn't have let that get away from me. It's not like
it's my first year on the Tour, second year on the Tour. I was 4-1 up. I shouldn't lose --
4-1, two second serves. I shouldn't let them get away from me. There's no excuse at all. 

Q. Were the conditions different?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: No, it was hot, the balls are bouncing high. No, not at all. I
think it wasn't as humid as yesterday. I was trying to think, it was nice out there. 

Q. Do you look at that as an opportunity lost?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Definitely. Definitely. I saw the draw a little this morning, and,
you know, obviously, you know, I could have deep tournaments. It's so tough, anything can
happen. You're concentrating on matches but the draw could open up. It was a good
opportunity to go, definitely. 

Q. (Inaudible)?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Yeah, he's just consistent. He hits the baul well. He moves well. I
think that's the biggest thing - he moves well. He likes to dictate points with his
forehand. 

Q. Is he different from the other Spanish players?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: It's pretty much relatively sort of the same game, the same style.
Obviously they're similar. They all move well. They got good forehands. You know, he plays
pretty good on hard court. I think he's a tough player. There's no easy matches out there.


Q. Did you sense that he was not tight at all, obviously, you know, he had not gotten
to this level a lot. Did you feel that?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: That might be sometimes the case where he's -- maybe he's not
expecting too much from himself on hard courts and he goes out swinging, where I'm
expecting something from myself and maybe got a little uptight. But, you know, these
things happen. 

Q. Did you have time to think about how you might try to remedy...(Inaudible)?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I've been thinking about it nonstop. I'm pretty hard on myself and
I'm very disappointed, like I said, especially being 4-1 up in the second -- third set
tiebreaker. And, you know, not, you know, coming -- I should have chip and charged that
point instead of hitting the backhand. I should have chip and charged, but he passed me
too good. I'm very upset, I didn't make him play. I'm very upset. I can't let these
opportunities go. There's no excuse at all.

Q. In a certain way are you glad you're as upset as you are, that maybe that tells you
something? Especially after the stuff you talked about yesterday. 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Well, I mean, yeah, obviously when anyone loses, they're
disappointed. But it's a little more disappointing where, you know, if you felt like you
had that match. It obviously is a long way away from finishing, 4-1, and anything can
happen. But, you know, just, you know, like I said, I shouldn't have let that go. I'm
disappointed. 

Q. Is the third set tiebreaker kind of different from the rest of the match?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I mean every tiebreaker is important, you know. A tiebreaker is the
same as the third, if I won that, I'm in the locker room instead of playing third set. 

Q. If you had to do it over again, the third-set tiebreaker, would you just be a little
more careful?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Like I said, you know, I'm the kind of player that goes for my
shots. I've got a power game, I'm going to go for it. But there are times when you don't
go for it. It's very simple. And 4-1, you know, I just should have hit it and come in. Be
aggressive, but come in and be aggressive and make him pass me. It's easy to say now when
I'm finished. But I've got to do these things on the court. 

Q. Do you feel as long as you get enough matches before the Open, you'll be okay?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Sure, a good thing about myself, what I've improved, on the big
tournaments I'm stepping up a lot better. Like I said, I had a poor clay court season
until the French, I stepped up and played some good tennis. Obviously I'm looking forward
to the US Open. At the same time you want to do well. You want to win these tournaments.
These are big tournaments, great tournaments to do well in. But I'm out of this one now,
and I have to concentrate on Washington, but my main focus is the US Open. 

Q. Do you have a break?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Yes. 

Q. Would you take that if you didn't do well in Washington?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: No. No I never like to play well. I mean -- sorry, that came out
well. (Laughter.) I never like to play a week before a Grand Slam. I always like a week
off. 

Q. Can you compare the US Open that's coming up with some of the other Slams as far as
-- for you?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Well, every Slam is important. You know, Australian Open is great,
and it's important especially because I'm from Melbourne, my family and friends are there.
So that's important for me. You know, French is great. It's a different feeling, Roland
Garros, it's a great atmosphere. Then you've got Wimbledon, just the history behind that's
incredible I think. I've always thought it's the most prestigious of all the Grand Slams.
Then the US Open, it's I think definitely just a close second behind Wimbledon and the
Americans make it so big and so important, it's like -- I mean people love their tennis,
but until the US Open where people stop and watch TV and realize what's happening at that
tournament, it's very big. It's exciting to be at, a great atmosphere. I think because
it's in New York, the crowd from New York, they're very loud, and that's what I like. It's
a lot of fun out there, a good atmosphere. 

Q. Do you realize that more now that you live in Miami, how important the US Open is?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Sure. Yeah, I mean like I said, it's people, you know, the tennis
fans are going to follow tennis. But the US Open is just definitely a couple steps above. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT