TMS - CINCINNATI
August 7, 2000
Mark Philippoussis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Great performance out there.

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Just pretty much eager out there to have a good start today,
especially a good match. I wanted to try to make a bit of a statement out there after two
poor weeks for myself.

Q. It was up and down. (inaudible) --

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: It was sort of tough. It was huge lights and my ball toss, I felt
exactly that is where I was going, so I was just trying to change the ball toss a little
bit. When I needed to, I think I served okay to get out of trouble.

Q. (Inaudible.)

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I have been working hard after Toronto; went back to Miami training
really hard; tried to focus and I lost track, I think, of myself and my game for a while
there after Wimbledon. Just wasn't playing my natural game; wasn't playing a power
attacking game. I am going to come into net if he passes me too good, but I have just got
to apply the pressure so I went to net tonight, I am happy.

Q. What happened to you when you got into that sort of statement you just described
lack of confidence?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: No, I just-- I hadn't been there last couple of weeks. I had a lot
of things in my head; just haven't been concentrating on my matches, so I picked up some
stuff after I went back to Miami and I felt good out there.

Q. (Inaudible.)

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:

Q. (Inaudible.)

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I don't mind losing if the guy's tennis -- there is such great
depth that anyone can beat anyone on any given day, so as long as I go out there and I
know I am going to play my game and do what I have to do and if he plays too good, if he
passes me and makes every passing shot, that is too good. I just want to go out there and
play my game and I am happy or I was happy tonight.

Q. (Inaudible.)

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: A lot of people keep on saying things. I finally had to say
something. I had to get it off my chest. I feel like there is a lot of weight lifted off
my shoulders.

Q. (inaudible)

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Of course after Wimbledon I pulled out for my knee that I tweaked
and (inaudible) I got to Miami, started working on my fitness, feeling good.

Q. Some people thought you were just making excuses. (inaudible)

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: That is why it is a little frustrating for me, but I love my
country and I showed it last year at the final and that is all I can do is just show them
and just concentrate on myself.

Q. Players not talking to one another... (Inaudible.)

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: To be quite honest with you, it is too political for me. I am a
tennis player. I love playing tennis so just want to be out there.

Q. Rios next.

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: It is going to be a tough match. I did see that match in the draw
and obviously he hasn't been playing like he has been in the past. But he is obviously
winning some good matches and he is coming back now. It is going to be extremely tough. I
am going to go to out there like did I tonight and play my game.

Q. Will you come forward as much as you have tonight?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Definitely.

Q. You will do that irrespective of (Inaudible.)

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Exactly. He hits a good ball. I am going to show my respect and get
it back, but if there is a chance, I will be all over it.

Q. (Inaudible.)

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: First match is always a little tough. I am the kind of player
definitely gets better after each match, my confidence lifts. Tomorrow is a day off. I can
go work on my serve a little. Just the most important thing on the serve is for me not to
rush and the ball toss, I think, if I take my time, my ball toss is good, my percentage is
good.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT