WIMBLEDON
July 5, 2000
Mark Philippoussis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR: Ladies and Gentlemen, Mark Philippoussis.  
 
Q. What did it feel like for you?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: What did what feel like?  
 
Q. What did the match feel like for you?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Well, obviously, you know, one or two points that cost me that
first set. It would have been nice, you know, to get the first set, sort of settled down a
little bit. I mean, Andre is such a great front-runner. You know, when he's got
confidence, it's going to be tough to get back. You know, like I said, I'm happy with the
way I played today, obviously. A couple double-faults cost me both of my service games.
You know, against a player like that who returns so well, you have to step it up a little
on your serve. That's going to cost you a little. 
 
Q. How tired were you?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Well, I'm a little sore. That's something I knew was going to
happen. You know, I was prepared for today's match. I was feeling good.  
 
Q. Just after that first set, did you feel like you put so much into it, did you drop
away a little bit?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: No, I wouldn't say that. I still felt good in the second also. Like
I said, a couple double-faults costed me that service game. I was feeling good. Most of
his serves, service games, I felt like I was in there. A lot of points got to 30-All. I
had a couple of breakpoint chances. Against a player like Andre, you've got to take those
opportunities. 
 
Q. Is that something about your game that you'd like to improve, double-faults at such
important times such as that?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I mean, it's different if I didn't go for it. Like I said, I had to
step it up a little. I put a little extra pace than I would have normally done. I missed
them. You know, there were times when I made them in other matches, got me through them.
Today, you know, it cost me the service game. 
 
Q. He returns the ball well. You were hitting serves at 130 and they were coming back
at you. Is there any other player in the game that can return as well as Andre?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: No, I don't feel like there is. I mean, I knew exactly that was
going to happen today. I was ready for it. You know, I felt good serving out there. I was
expecting that. 
 
Q. On the breakpoint in the second set, you had a second serve coming, then Andre
stepped back about ten feet behind the baseline. Did that throw you off a little bit
before you hit the ball? 
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: No, it didn't throw me off at all. He did that before, you know. I
saw him step back a little. Didn't throw me off, no. 
 
Q. What will be different about your approach the next time you play him? Or will there
be any difference?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Well, I hope there will be a difference. 
 
Q. I mean, in your approach to how you play him. 
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: You know, I felt like I can hold my head up high. Wasn't anything
to be ashamed of the way I played today. There were two breaks out there, and that costed
me the match. It was simple. I was in it in the tiebreaker. I felt like, you know, the
start of the tiebreaker I had the upper hand definitely on some of the rallies. I missed a
forehand. Came in off a good return, missed a forehand volley. Who knows, one or two
points, get me the tiebreaker, it's a different match. But, like I said, I can take a lot
of positive things away from this championship. I'm going to come back stronger next year. 
 
Q. Is there one thing about your game you feel like you need to improve to get to semis
and finals of these bigger tournaments?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Well, I mean, I'm improving everything. I'm trying to improve
everything every time I get on the practise court - my serves, my returns, my volleys, my
movements, groundstrokes. What it is, too, you need a bit of luck in Grand Slams. Of
course, you need to bit of luck. It's tough. I played some tough matches. Running into
Andre in the quarterfinals, it's tough. To win these things, you need to get through those
matches. 
 
Q. Did you talk to Boris Becker before this match?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: No. 
 
Q. You've had a few weeks now with Mike. Would you say as you exit this tournament that
your commitment to the direction they want to go with you is as strong as it was when you
started out?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Sure. I mean, to think that Mike and Gav and myself, we put pretty
much, you know, 12 hard days in, 10 hard days in before this tournament. I definitely feel
a difference with my attitude, my fitness, you know, the way I am on the court. It's going
to get better and better. We're going to work harder. I'm going to be looking forward to
the American summer. It's going to be exciting. 
 
Q. How do you think Pat will go against Andre?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I think definitely that will be his first test of the tournament.
Obviously he must be playing good tennis. Obviously he's back to where he was, after the
tournament win before this. But that will definitely be a test, I mean, he'll have to be
serve-volleying pretty good to have a chance to beat him. 
 
Q. Was there a point in the match where you said, "How did you return that
ball?" 
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: No. I mean, like I said, I know he's one of the best returners in
the world, the way he picks up the ball so much earlier than anyone else. I think a couple
stages he actually half-volleyed my serve he was so far in. It's not surprising.  
 
Q. Do you think he can go all the way this year?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I tell you what, you know, I don't know how Pete's injury is. He's
not warming up. It's always going to take him a while to get into the match, not having to
warm up before, the day before you play. He's going to pretty much always start late, you
know, in his matches. I think if that happens against Andre, and Andre gets past Pat,
obviously whoever wins there, obviously, it's going to be tough.  
 
Q. His eyes and his ability to take the serve early, how much do you think that
neutralizes or diminishes Pat's kick second serve?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: The thing is, on grass, that kick serve is not really that
effective, I don't think. Pete, who has won six times here, he doesn't really kick that
second serve. Looks like he pretty much goes for it every time with a bit of slice. It's
so much tougher to pick up. I think if you kick it, it's not going to kick that much, and
the ball's going to sit up a little bit. He'll have to vary his serve. 
 
Q. Your original deal with Mike was for the grass court month. Do you plan to extend
that officially?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Yes. 
 
Q. For how long?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: He's part of the team. 
 
Q. So permanently, ongoing?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Yes. 
 
Q. What do you think Mike has brought to you?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Experience. He's been with Boris for five years. He's learned a lot
with him. He knows what he's talking about. He's a hard worker. Along with Gavin, I think
he'll put me into gear. 
 
Q. You're definitely playing Davis Cup?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I'm in the team. 
 
Q. When will you go? Straightaway? Will you have a few days off somewhere?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I mean, I'll try and go as soon as I can.  
 
Q. Looking forward to the hard court season. Is that including the Olympics in
Australia?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Yes. 
 
Q. What will you say about that?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Obviously I'm extremely excited, having the Olympics at home in
Australia, Sydney. I mean, my last experience in Atlanta was incredible, staying in the
village amongst the best athletes in the world. It's quite incredible to go off and see
other competitions. It was a great experience. I think for a lot of players, especially
me, it's going to be big. Obviously I'm looking forward to winning a medal for your
country, it's going to be an extremely big thing. After what happened in Davis Cup, the
feeling I had after we won it, I'm excited, looking forward to it. 
 
Q. Are you going to stick around and see how Pat and Jelena fare?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: No. The tournament's over for me. I'll just go home. 
 
Q. Are you going to go straight to Brisbane or Melbourne first?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Melbourne. 
 
Q. Are you going to pick out your piece of land for the big shift?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I don't know. I'm sure I'll be looking at a couple different
things.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT