TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 27, 2000
Mark Philippoussis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 ATP: Questions for Mark.  
 
Q. The Davis Cup final match against him, is that a good psychological edge to have?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Obviously you remember the last match you played against the
opponent. But every match you play is different. I'm sure he'd have liked to get revenge.
He came out firing, but I got the early break which sort of kept him out of it. I was very
happy the way I played today. I was a bit lucky and I was happy. 
 
Q. Conditions?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: They were tough. But I live in Miami. I train in these conditions
when I'm here. Pretty much windy when I'm here every day. It's tough for both players to
cope with.  
 
Q. He comes back from Love-40 down, wins that game, gets the crowd going a little bit.
It didn't seem to trouble you. 
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I didn't really do that much wrong from Love-40. I mean, the guy,
good second serve, an ace, deep second serve again, played some good points. I had to keep
my cool. I'm the one who's up a set and it's 5-All. I just kept my cool and held my serve.
Just tried to play some tough tennis. If he would have won the set, I would have made him
win it with some good points.  
 
Q. Are you feeling very confident about your game? You seem to be playing with great
self-confidence and belief at the moment. 
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Yeah. I mean, you know, I've trained hard enough. I have enough,
you know, confidence in myself to know that, you know, the training that I've done, if I
need to stay out there for three hours to win the match, I'm going to do that. Whatever it
takes to win the match, I'm going to do. I'm just concentrating really well at the moment.
That's what I'm happy about.  
 
Q. Last year I saw in an article you said, "I'm 22 years old, I plan to retire
when I'm 26 or 28, I just want to win a few Grand Slams, get to No. 1 in the world and do
other things." Are you feeling the same way now?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Well, I mean, I'm 23 now (laughter). You know, I love the game at
the moment. I'm enjoying the challenge out there. I'm enjoying the tough points, when it
gets in the tiebreakers, the way the crowd's into it. We're playing some good tennis out
there. It's really enjoyable for both - obviously for the person who ends up winning. But
I'm just enjoying the challenge of being tough out there. 
 
Q. Could you conceive of retiring early from the sport?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Well, I just hope that I'm healthy enough to play that long. See
what happens.  
 
Q. How is your knee?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: It's fine. It's getting along. 
 
Q. Does this feel like a home tournament to you? Do you get a sense from the crowd or
people calling, anything like that?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Definitely. Obviously it doesn't feel like Melbourne because the
Australian Open, where I'm from, family and friends. But I live here, it's my second home,
pretty much my home. I have a lot of friends here. You know, sleep at home, drive up here,
15-minute drive. Just exactly the same back in Melbourne from Williamstown to the city.
Feels very much like a home. It's very comfortable. 
 
Q. When did you move here?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Wimbledon. Actually, I was living in Sarasota in Long Boat Key for
over a year and a half, then I moved here since Wimbledon, August - July. 
 
Q. Why did you move here?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Because of South Beach (laughter).  
 
Q. Can you elaborate more? What do you like about South Beach?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: The young people, young crowd. If you want to go out, you know, I
can go out and it's there. At the same time, it's very relaxing. The weather is always
great. 
 
Q. Do the people know you around South Florida?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I mean, you go out, you meet some people. But it's really cool,
very casual.  
 
Q. Does that suit the way you want to be? You can relax and chill out, mix in with the
crowd?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: To be honest, I couldn't think of a better place to live at the
moment than Miami.  
 
Q. The Australians, Pat is coming back, obviously he played a superb third set last
night, playing well. Lleyton is playing well. You have a Davis Cup tie coming up. It's
going to be 2 from 3, an interesting choice for the captain. 
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I'm not worried about that. I'm just here at the Ericsson Cup at
the moment. That's all I'm worried about. 
 
Q. How much does playing in the Davis Cup for your country mean to you?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Obviously it's the same as any athlete. Representing your country's
a big honor.  
 
Q. What do you think it will take to consistently get back into the Top 10?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I just need to stay healthy, that's it. 
 
Q. What about your game?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: If I stay healthy, I work on all parts of my game. I just want to
stay healthy, get a chance to get up there. 
 
Q. Is there one thing in particular you're working on there?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Staying healthy.  
 
Q. Do you remember the last time you played a match where you felt out of sorts, got a
little negative emotionally, frustrated, kind of screwed up? You've been on a roll this
year. When was the last time you played a lousy match, "I kind of blew it"? 
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: It would be in Queen's, my last match when I played Lleyton Hewitt. 
 
Q. A little while ago you said you wouldn't like to see any changes in the sport, in
tennis. It's your position that you wouldn't like to see any experimentation or any
changes whatsoever?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Well, I just think that the sport's fine, the game's great, not to
change it. The rule about the first game, it's a good idea. I think it's a great idea,
keep it going for the television. It's one game, the players are fresh, no problem,
they're fit enough. As long as they don't make the balls bigger. Why I'm saying this is
because players' arms are going to fall apart, elbow is going to start hurting, shoulder
is going to start hurting. The ball is going to get heavier. How are you going to play a
five-setter with a bigger ball? There's going to be so many injuries. 
 
Q. You wouldn't like to see on-court coaching?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: You know, I think Davis Cup, the team events we have coaching, it's
fine. The thing about tennis, it's an individual sport. You're out there. If something's
wrong, you've got to be out there to change the game for yourself. You can't get help.
It's just you and the other guy. That's why it's great.  
 
Q. You said a little while ago that you're really liking playing tennis, really liking
the game. When was the last time you liked it as much as you appreciate and like it as
now?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Probably when I was first on the tour, when I was 17, 18.
Everything was great. The traveling was great. Obviously, the traveling is frustrating.
But just being on court, I'm just enjoying myself.  
 
Q. The circuit just came from Indian Wells. How would you compare the new facility
there to the facility here, as well as the settings?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Well, I don't know how much money they spent on that facility, but
it's an incredible facility. That took a lot of time to do it. Actually, they did it
pretty quick, since last year, it was all ready. Incredible how fast they did it. It was a
great atmosphere playing there, the court was great. It was good. But, I mean, everything
here is great, too. I don't feel like they need to change anything. There's a lot of room,
a lot of room for the spectators, a lot of room in the stands for the crowd, even on the
outside matches. So it's great.  
 
Q. If you had to choose the facility here or the one in Indian Wells, which would you
choose?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I like both for their own reasons. You know, this is just as good
as the one in Indian Wells. I mean, Indian Wells is incredible, but this is up there, too.
 
 
Q. When you're here and practicing, do you come here to practice or courts near the
house?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Here. Before the tournament, I was practicing on the island. 
 
Q. At other times?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I always practice on the island.  
 
Q. Did you follow the NCAA basketball?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I have been. I haven't had a choice. TV is in the locker room and
is on the NCAA. I love basketball, so I'm becoming more Americanized with the sports
living here. It's good.  
 
Q. Happy to see Florida in the Final Four?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Yeah. Playing some great ball. 
 
Q. We have a photo of you backing Gilbert back to the basket. Is he easy to take to the
net?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: To be quite honest, on Gilbert's part, he took me down on that day.
But that was a few years ago. That was just after a training session, so I was tired, had
no legs. But know I think I'll take him. 
 
Q. His biggest weakness?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: His biggest weakness, what would that be? I don't know, maybe his
age (laughter).  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT