TMS - INDIAN WELLS
March 11, 2000
Mark Philippoussis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







GRAEME AGARS: Ladies and Gentlemen, we have the defending champion of this event, the
first Masters Series event for the year 2000, Mark Philippoussis. Open it up for
questions. 

Q. Your first thoughts on the new facility?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: It's incredible; seems like a great atmosphere. I can't really wait
to get on center court and play a match there. Everything is so well-organized. It's huge.
Took me a while to try to find my credentials, players' lounge and everything. I think it
was well worthwhile building this facility. It's great.

Q. Have you had a chance to have a hit?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I hit yesterday for 40 minutes. It's pretty much the same as last
year. The ball bounces extremely high. It's very fair, you know, for baseliners or
serve-and-volleyers. I think it will suit me. I'm happy.

Q. The speed, medium?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I think a little faster than medium. The balls are shooting through
a little bit, definitely bouncing very high off the serve and off the groundstrokes.

Q. When you practiced, did you practice on one of the outer courts?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Yes.

Q. In this desert environment, where the horizons seem endless, did you have a hard
time being oriented?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: No, no. I've been playing here for, you know, five years now. Like
I say, it's just getting here this week, looking at the facility, looking at the courts,
getting used to the atmosphere, getting used to the new surroundings.

Q. Can you talk to me about your first round. You have a history of playing a lot of
tiebreakers in the first round, six of your seven sets have gone to tiebreakers. What is
it about the first round here?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Obviously, I think everyone in the first round - I'm a little
nervous. That's the toughest match. Once you get past that little hump, I think everyone's
game gets better and better match-by-match. You know, I've played some tough players in
these first rounds. I don't mind playing another hundred tiebreakers as long as I, you
know, win them (laughter). 

Q. Is it different for you to come back as a champion to a tournament?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Different? You know, obviously I won it last year. It was a great
feeling. It's going to be so much harder this year. Obviously, everyone is playing this
new Masters Series event, all the top players play. Everyone is excited to get off to a
great start. Everyone is looking to play some good tennis straight off. You know, there's
so many players who can do well and win this tournament. For myself, I'm just obviously
putting last year behind me, and this year is a different year, a fresh year. I'm just
looking to play some good tennis.

Q. Is physically everything all right with you?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Yeah. You know, it was unfortunate what happened. I played a lot of
matches. From Switzerland, flew straight to San Jose, played five straight days, some
tough matches, just took a toll on my knee. I had to pull out of Memphis after playing a
match. I had like a week and a half off, just started working, you know, gradually trying
to get my knee a lot stronger, just pretty much getting into it again. The only thing I
could do is just rest. That's the only thing I could do for my knee. Seems to be a hundred
percent again. Just see how it goes. 

Q. Is the break perhaps bad for your game?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Actually, to be quite honest, I have exactly the same schedule as I
had last year. Round of 16, won in San Jose. Last year I lost in the Round of 16 at
Memphis. This year I had to pull out, didn't play any tournament, then came straight here.
It's pretty much worked out perfectly again.

Q. Is it your left knee or your right knee?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: My left knee.

Q. Obviously you were playing some great tennis last year, not just here, going so well
at Wimbledon before the injury in the match against Pete. Do you feel that you have
recaptured your very best tennis yet?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Each match at Wimbledon got better and better. Pete's match, I was
playing some great tennis. Every year I mature little by little. My game is coming
together a lot more. I'm feeling a lot more mature as a person on the court. My game feels
a lot more mature. You know, I'm a lot more patient, I'm working the points better,
knowing when to go for a little bit more. Naturally, I do tend to go for shots that aren't
there. But it's just the way I am, it's the kind of player I am. You know, every match I'm
giving 110 percent. The thing is, if I do lose a match, it's not because I'm losing
myself, it's because I'm making the other player beat me. That's the difference between
this year and the end of last year.

Q. Are you going to play the Olympics in Sydney?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Yes, I definitely hope so. 

Q. Do you expect Sampras to play in this tournament?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Yes, I pretty much do. I'm sure he's very pretty eager to start
off, like I said, The Masters series, with a good tournament. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT