EUROCARD OPEN
October 25, 1999
Mark Philippoussis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ATP:  Questions for Mark, please. 


Q. How do you find it going now that this is your third tournament back?  Taken more time than you expected to get back to everything?  Is it going according to what you would have hoped?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I would have liked to have come off well with some good tournaments to start off.  I'm just trying to be realistic.  I've been training extremely hard, feeling physically great.  It does take a couple matches, just playing those tough points.  Today, these last two weeks, definitely helped.  I played the tough points extremely well.  No double-faults; didn't go for anything silly.  I made him try to win the points.  It was a lot better.  I'm very happy with it.


Q. Can you tell us after the knee went at Wimbledon what happened?  Did you try to come back too soon?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I tried to come back too soon.  I definitely wasn't ready.  That's pretty much where it was.  I had some great training.  I went to Miami , been training there a couple months now.  I'm definitely ready now.


Q. Were you thinking at 5-All, 15-40, "Here we go again, another close one that is going to slip away"? 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No, No.   I was concentrating extremely well.  I didn't get frustrated.  It was just another point.  All I said to myself, "First serve in."  Played a good serve, hit an ace.  Second serve, "Gee, you might as well go for it down the middle, just make him play."  He played it, hit a passing shot.  Just playing some smart tennis.


Q. For you, not only it's the end of the season, getting back to your best in your match performances, but with the Davis Cup final coming up, Australia, there's a lot of responsibility for you there. 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I'm just concentrating on these tournaments.  To be quite honest, I'm not thinking about Davis Cup at all.  When the time comes to think about that, prepare for that, then I will.  The way I'm looking at it, we're the underdogs going in.  There's no pressure on us playing in France on slow clay.  We've got nothing to lose.  They're playing in front of their country; they've got the pressure on themselves.


Q. Have you been back to Australia since Wimbledon?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No.  I have, actually, for four days to visit my mom and my sister.


Q. I just wondered what sort of reaction there had been to you getting through to the Davis Cup final?  Is it a big story over there or not?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I haven't been there, but I'm sure it is.  The Australians take pride in team events, and take Davis Cup very seriously.


Q. Have you been following World Cup Rugby?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Don't like rugby at all.  Don't understand the sport (laughter). 


Q. This is often a court that aids the really big server, has been really quick.  How quick is it out there at the moment?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  They're slowing down everything.  Definitely trying to slow down the courts.  You can slow down the balls.  No matter what kind of balls you give us, they get fluffier, you can make the balls bigger, guys are going to still serve aces.  Doesn't matter about that.  Guys return well.  Right now, everyone's serve is getting bigger, everyone is returning well.  Doesn't matter if they slow down the courts, slow down the balls, people serve aces.  If they keep slowing down the balls, players are going to get injured, shoulders are going to hurt, your arm is going to ache.  There will be no players left.


Q. Balls are slow here?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Balls are slow, yes.


Q. Given that you've lost a couple tight ones recently, do you think having gotten through a tight one today is a real breakthrough?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Actually, I prefer, yeah, winning the way I did today.  Coming back from some breakpoints, winning the match.  Would have been easier winning in straight sets.  I know I've been in the situation before, been a couple breakpoints down and come back.  Good feeling going into the next match.


Q. Next match is Agassi.  Thoughts on that one? 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  It will be very exciting.  I'm looking forward to it, definitely.


Q. The fact you go into it with so little match practice, does that mean you're just going to go for it or are you going to try to rally with him?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I'm not going to go for it.  There's no reason why I can't win.  I have two tournaments under my belt.  I've won some matches.  The guy is definitely a great player.  He's No.  1 in the world, has had an unbelievable year.  Doesn't matter.  I don't care who's on the other side of the net.  If I play good tennis, it's going to be tough for him.  It's also going to be tough for me, but I'm looking forward to it.


Q. Is Cash around, besides Gavin being with you?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yes, he's here.


Q. Has he been part of the fitness buildup at all?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  He's been in London and with Gavin in Miami for the last two months.


Q. Cash on the telephone, that sort of stuff?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Cash on the telephone. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT