NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 11, 1999
Mark Philippoussis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MIKI SINGH: First question for Mark. 


Q.  Only four aces, but a first serve percentage of 67%.  What were you doing differently?  Just going for the big one, placing it more?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, I was trying to ace him.  He's a big guy with a long reach.  I had a lot of unreturnable serves.  I don't really care if I don't serve any aces.  As long as I win the match, I'm happy. 


Q.  Conditions a bit difficult out there?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  It was a little bit cold, a little bit windy, but something that we both have to deal with.  I was quite pleased with the outcome.


Q.  Reaching the quarterfinals now, how confident are you feeling?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I'm feeling confident.  The biggest thing is I'm just feeling very fresh, playing less tournaments this year, I've had two weeks off.  Was with friends in Miami.  Just enjoying myself out there. 


Q.  Can you look ahead to playing Todd tomorrow?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah.  You know, Todd is playing some great tennis at the moment, just beat Marcelo.  You'd have to be playing some good tennis to do that.  I'm looking forward to a tough match.  Just go out there and give it all, what I can. 


Q.  What do you think will be the key?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  You know, I'm just looking forward to playing some solid tennis, nothing special.  Just going out there, just playing the kind of tennis that I'm capable of playing.


Q.  Do you think that the results you had so far this year, the way you've been playing so far this year, it's the best tennis of your career?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Best tennis?  I'd probably say more consistent tennis.  I've played some great tennis in the past, but it hasn't been consistent.  I've had some good weeks, fallen off for a month, then played some good tennis again.  But the thing that's improved is my consistency.  I'm competing well and I'm up for every tournament.  Last year I played too many tournaments and I got fatigued and I lost concentration in some matches.  I'm fresh for every tournament, and I'm just giving it my hundred percent every match I play. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT