US OPEN
September 12, 1998
Mark Philippoussis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Often people refer to your game as "one-dimensional." How much have you
lifted the other aspects of your game besides your serve to get to this point?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I've been working extremely hard on my all-around game. You know,
I've been spending a lot more hours on the court than normal. You know, just working on
all parts of my game. I don't like to rely on my serve only. I feel confident on the back
of the court and coming in, too.

Q. First two sets, were they the best you've ever played?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: No, I wouldn't say the best. I would say the toughest -- one of the
toughest I've played. I concentrated extremely well. I applied the pressure on him. He
felt the pressure. I just served great, you know, on my services games and consistent.

Q. You said earlier this year in the US Open that you were going to be concentrating
more on your tennis next year. Have you changed your mind and decided to do it sooner?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I don't remember saying that. Well, I don't think I meant to say
that that way. I'm sure I'm concentrating on my serve -- sorry, on my tennis. I mean, it
came out wrong.

Q. How excited are you?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I'm excited, but not overly excited. I've still got one match to
go. I don't want to -- you know, I was just relieved. Had two match points. He got back to
deuce. Just relieved to put that volley away. So I'm looking forward to tomorrow now,
concentrating on tomorrow. I've got one more match to go.

Q. Specifically, what part of your game do you feel you've improved the most recently?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: My attacking part, chip and charging, applying the pressure. I'm a
lot more consistent than I have been. My movement around the net is great at the moment.

Q. Carlos said before at times you're basically unbeatable, minus a few mistakes here
and there. If you could eliminate those, you'd be virtually unbeatable. Did you feel like
that the first two sets? 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Yeah, to be honest. I just keep my head leveled. I feel great out
there. I honestly feel like no one can beat me. I just worry about my serve. When they're
serving, just apply the pressure. One or two shots -- you know, I go for a lot of shots,
and I feel unbeatable, definitely.

Q. You're either going to play Pete Sampras or Patrick Rafter in the final. Can you
look at each one of them and describe what you would have to do to beat one and then the
other?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Well, I mean, first Pete. The guy's obviously a top player. He's
No. 1 in the world. He can do everything. He serves, hits from the back. No matter who I
play, Pete or Pat, I'm just going to play the same game. You know, I feel like if I serve
the way I am, volleying the way I am, I feel like that, you know, it's going to be tough
to break me. And then, you know, when it comes to their serves, I'll just apply the
pressure.

Q. You mentioned how well it felt like you were playing in the first two sets. Would
that be comparable to the night in Melbourne when you beat Pete Sampras in the Australian
Open, 1996?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Well, that was a couple years ago. I was like -- how old was I
then? 18, 19? That's one of those nights where I was in a zone. I was just hitting winners
everywhere. That happens. Today, it's not like I played the same way. I played -- like I
said, I played tough today. You know, I was just in a bit of a zone. But I just was, you
know, applying the pressure, coming into the net, just making him pass me. You know, if he
can pass me three sets, that's too good.

Q. When you entered this tournament, what were you thinking? What would have been a
satisfactory result for you?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Well, you know, when I go into any tournament, I go into it to win
the tournament, or else there's no point in playing. I'm not going to go out there,
"Okay, if I lose in the quarters, I'm happy." That's ridiculous. I know what I'm
capable of doing. When I play some good tennis, you know, I can win this thing. It's the
US Open, and I can win it. I know I can do that. Like I said before, I want to prove that.

Q. Two games where you had triple breakpoint, didn't convert. How did you feel about
that? How did you keep your confidence up when it came to win the match?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I was a bit frustrated. With all respect to Carlos, I did nothing
wrong. I hit some great returns. He had some great volleys from his shoelaces, great
pickups. You know, I didn't do much wrong at all on those. I just had to hang in there and
just wait, and it happened.

Q. We've had Rafter in the past fortnight talking about how last year's win turned his
life upside down, the increased expectation, felt he had to get out of Australia, the
media commitments, etcetera. Are you a little scared to be on the brink of the same thing?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: No. I'm not scared at all. I'm playing some great tennis at the
moment. I'm only 21 years of age.

Q. How do you think you would handle the year that Pat's gone through?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I mean, I think Pat's handled it well, to be quite honest. I'm not
sure. I'm just going to go through life the same way that I am now. I'm pretty much living
in Florida right now. I love it there myself. I'll be away from Australia, you know, just
enjoying life, just relaxing.

Q. If there is a weakness in your game, and especially your last three games you've
been excellent, but Moya looked to exploit it today, he came in on the second serve and
made you pass him. Obviously, he's not a serve volleyer. Was that something that obviously
put you off in that third set?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: It put me off. I wouldn't say a weakness, because I feel confident
in my passing shots. I mean, it's tough also someone coming in. But there are a lot of
passing shots I should have made. It's just that bit of surprise behind it, to be honest.
Like if I know someone's coming in, it's different; I'm ready for it. But he surprised me
a lot when he started coming in.

Q. How is the relationship with Pat Cash working out? Obviously well, because you're
playing great.

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Yeah, it's great. Joined up after Queen's. It's been going well. So
far we have a good relationship going. It's good to have him in the team.

Q. Said that you have to learn a little bit of patience. Is that something you feel you
need to learn?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Definitely. I'm learning every day. Every year I get more
experienced. That's one of the things that's going to come. Like I said, I'm a late
maturer. Definitely, you know, patience is going to come.

Q. You hadn't dropped a set, then the two double-faults in the third. What happened
there?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I double-faulted (laughter).

Q. Well, why? Why did you double-fault there? 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Why? Well, to be honest, I didn't have too bad of a second serve.
They weren't too bad. Maybe I should have had a bit more height over the net. But there
were two net cords which went out, which was a bit unlucky.

Q. How much would it mean to you and also to Australia do you think to have an
all-Australian final?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: There's no reason why. I mean, Pat's playing -- he's probably --
just as good if not better tennis than he did last year. It's going to be great.
Obviously, a lot of people in Australia are going to be very happy. You know, that's just
great.

Q. How do you think that would reflect on Australian tennis?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Well, I mean, Australian tennis isn't doing too bad now. Pat's been
playing some great tennis. He lost two matches only on the summer coming into the US Open.
You know, I think tennis in Australia -- Australian tennis has been doing great for a
couple of years.

Q. You made a comment after your quarterfinal match about how it had changed you. I
didn't know if this match had any other effect on you, now that you're a finalist.

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Well, like I said, that match did a lot for me. Probably I think it
did mature me a lot more, definitely quicker. I definitely preferred playing a match like
that, tiebreaker in the fifth, than winning in straight sets. I just feel a little better
about myself, about coming back, having the guts to come back, know knowing that I can do
it.

Q. Did you apply that at all today?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Yeah. I mean, you know, I just -- I felt great out there, even
though it was a long match. I knew just hang in there point by point, just play your game,
just like I did the other night.

Q. When you played Pat last month, Pat reflected on the win that he had over you,
saying that it was a difficult thing to do. Can you reflect on what kind of tennis player
you were then and what kind of person you were then compared with right now? What do you
think you've learned in this last month?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Well, when I played him in Canada, I think that was a bit too much
emotion for myself in that match. I definitely wasn't concentrating well. It was a tough
match, like you said, to play. And, yeah, it was just tough, you know. Probably a kick in
the ass is what I needed to wake me up. And he definitely, you know, did that.

Q. How is it going to be different tomorrow if you play Pat?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Well, it's a different match. I've got a lot of respect for Pat.
He's playing some great tennis. You know, I think he's going to be another player out
there. There's going to be respect, but not too much respect. When we go out there,
obviously it's for the US Open title, so it's going to be different.

Q. Now that you and Pat are back on speaking terms, whatever, have you guys talked
about facing each other in the final, joked about it?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: No. I've joked a bit with his brother. But, no, not really. He's
still got to concentrate on one more match, playing Pete Sampras. That's going to be a
great one to watch.

Q. When exactly were you back together, sort of civil to each other again?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: We came -- we started speaking pretty much during the summer. You
know, I mean we've always been speaking, but obviously it wasn't as warm as it was in the
past. But, you know, obviously we've put a lot of things behind us. We both understand
that we're both young and we've got a lot of years ahead of us, Davis Cup matches and
that. We have to, you know -- myself especially had to put things aside.

Q. When Carlos Moya was in here, he said when your first serve is going in at a high
percentage, for the opponent, you just have to guess where the ball is going and pray. Can
you describe what sort of sense of invincibility do you have when you're serving as well
as you do and how that will serve you in the finals?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: It's pretty much all rhythm. I can tell straightaway when I walk
out there if I've got rhythm or not. I felt it today at the practice session that my serve
was there. Like I said, when I'm serving like that, and I'm holding my serve so
comfortably, you can try a lot more things when I'm returning. You can go for a lot more
shots and try different things.

Q. Do you feel invincible in that situation?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I feel very confident, yes.

Q. Mark Woodforde was in here last week bagging the big servers. Is this a case of you
having the last laugh?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I mean, I don't want to get into that. That's just silly. I'm just
going to laugh at that. All I've got to say is for him to wake up to himself.

Q. He needs to wake up to himself? 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Yeah.

Q. If I understood correctly, you said you're a better player when you're not
emotional, is that right? You don't seem to be overexcited at the moment.

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Well, I mean, that match I won a few nights ago, it was very
emotional to get through that. Just now that I've got a high expectations of myself. So
it's not like -- you know, it's like, yeah, I'm in the final. Obviously I'm very happy.
But I know that I can win it. So, you know, the party hasn't started yet. You know,
hopefully on Sunday night.

Q. I know it's an old topic. Do you think in any way that whole hullabaloo about the
Davis Cup in April had anything to do with you being here today, playing in the final, the
way you coped with it or adjusted to it?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I made a decision not to play. I stuck by that. You know, something
like that can make me a stronger person, which it has. A lot of negative things I turned
positive for myself. I pumped myself up. I train a lot harder. That's what's happened.

Q. One of the criticisms of you, you sort of said this the other night, said it
yourself, that you used to be fairly lazy. 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Uh-huh.

Q. What was the exact turning point? At what point did you wake up one day and say,
"I've had enough of this; I'm now going to really apply myself"?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I don't know. Probably after I got my hair cut off losing in
Queen's. I mean, I was in a bad state of my life there. I was really upset, having doubts
whether to play Wimbledon. I just thought, I'm fortunate to be doing what I am at such a
young age. I started working extremely hard. You know, ever since after Wimbledon, I've
pretty much doubled my hours nearly on the court. I just really tried to knuckle down. I
think, to be honest, maybe a lot had to do with Pat doing well. He's had a lot of success,
but it's just because he worked so hard. I mean, the guy gives a lot of hours on the
court. You know, I think that opened my eyes up. You know, I know I've got a lot of
talent, but I've got to show it. It's not going to come out unless I work hard. That's
what I'm willing to do and I have been doing.

Q. So you got the haircut, new man, new player?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: New man, that's right, new player.

Q. Have you talked to John Newcombe this week? Do you have an ongoing dialogue with him
through this tournament?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Yeah, I see him before matches. He says good luck, says hello. You
know, that's how it is. I mean, I'm just -- I'm concentrating on what I have to do this
week, which is play good tennis. That's what's in my mind at the moment, nothing else.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT