US OPEN
September 4, 1998
Mark Philippoussis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Couple of serves at 128. I think your top was 131 which is sort of getting up there.
I think you served around 59% which was a little bit low as a percentage. How do you
equate speed to getting your percentage up? What is important? 
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Well, I mean, the first four points, what can you say about that?
The guy returns with -- he is a great doubles player and he has got a great return that
puts a lot of pressure on, and I think it made me go for a bit too much which, you know,
then you just lose that rhythm a bit, but my serve wasn't great tonight, but it was okay.
Good enough. And like I said, I don't rely on my serve and there is other things in my
game to back it up. 
 
Q. In the latter sets, did you get better rhythm?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Obviously you get better as the match grows on. I am getting to
know his game a bit more as the match went on. I was really never worried at all, I felt I
am confident, I am feeling good at the moment. 
 
Q. How is the surface for you?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: That court -- apparently I was told by a lot of players was the
fastest here, Stadium 2. The courts are definitely faster this year than they were in the
past, and that suits me. 
 
Q. I asked you the other day, were you worried when you lost the first game, you made a
point which takes best of five the first game is such a short -- long way to go after
that. You lost your first game again tonight. Went on to lose the set. Anything you will
do different to make sure you get off to a better start?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Well, loss of concentration my first match, and this first game, I
mean, come on, I didn't do anything wrong - when the guy hits four winners in a row, that
is too good. All I could say to that is if he keeps it up for three sets that is too good. 
 
Q. You think there is any problem with preparation --
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: You want to concentrate; get a good start, don't get me wrong, but
if it happens you lose your game don't get worried. I would definitely like to get a good
start in matches, it is always great. 
 
Q. Are you happy with the way you are getting to the net?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I was pleased with the way I volleyed today. I think I could have
gotten to the net quicker today. I wasn't as quick getting to the net. I felt great around
the court on the baseline, but that is something to look forward to in the next match. 
 
Q. Pat Rafter was saying -- complementing your play again and saying what a great
player you are, just a matter of time. Just a matter of when you are ready. How far off
that point are you? Do you feel are you in position to sort of estimate?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I am ready now. I was ready at Wimbledon. And I am ready now.
Physically I feel great. I am not getting fatigued on the court. I haven't played a match
to test me, but I am feeling great on the court. I am moving well. Best finish in my life.
I am concentrating out there. And I have matured a lot and when I got go out to these
tournaments I know I can win it and no reason why I can't win it. That is how I got to
think now. Just show everyone that I can do it. But just worrying about each match by
match. 
 
Q. If you had to compare your form at this stage of Wimbledon, to now, what would you
say?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Well, you know, being on grass it is different. But I was playing
some good tennis on grass, beating Yevgeny in the first round and that, but I don't really
have a favorite surface, so I feel comfortable on everything. On hard courts, it's a
different game. Probably suits me maybe a bit more on hard court, but I think grass the
ball sits up a bit more and I can take a whack at it and, you know, when I am playing
well, it all comes together. 
 
Q. I would think that you are player that is not going to win week-in and week-out. But
do you really just go get yourself into a frame of mind that takes to you another level
when it comes to the Grand Slams?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Well, now you know, I am happy that I have been, you know, pretty
much Wimbledon and now and before it is like I have been playing great in other
tournaments and coming up to the Grand Slams I had a bit of a slump and not to my
standard. But no matter how bad of a summer I had, that I could have had, but I mean, I
expected a lot more than what happened. Like I said, I just -- the Grand Slams, it is what
it is all about. And, you know, like I said, Pete comes out there and he just cares about
the Grand Slams no matter who he lost to in the previous tournaments. That is what it is
all about and tennis starts at the second week really, not the first week. That is when
the great tennis starts. 
 
Q. Pat spoke yesterday about expectations at home. If you look at the last three years
there has probably been more Grand Slams over that period where you were the great hope.
Do you feel this year that it is better for you than Pat is up there and all the
expectations are on top and you can sneak through a little bit quieter?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: That really doesn't worry me. That is always the hard thing, you
know, Pat winning the US Open, and had finished off with an unbelievable year and
expectations are on him, that is rightfully -- he deserves it. But he is handling it well,
I think. He is being very professional about it and he is a nice guy. Obviously that is a
bit better on me. No one is taken notice of me. I am just sneaking through there and just
worrying about myself. But, you know, like I said, that always happens when someone plays
well, everyone is looking at them and I am just worrying about myself and just what I
could do. 
 
Q. Did you run out of rackets in the beginning of the third set?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I had some rackets, but two broke and I got the other racket out of
the plastic bag and it had broken inside of the plastic bag. I started to panic. I had one
left. 
 
Q. How many do you normally take on?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Seven. I actually had on six there, but I already broken --
sometimes they break while they are in the bag and especially when I am sleeping, I get
woken up, big snap. 
 
Q. Were you down to your last?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I was down to my last. I was hoping he wouldn't hit any big shots,
so it worked out okay. 
 
Q. Getting good at hand ball, mate?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: No, I haven't played probably since grade school. 
 
Q. You might have had a game tonight?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Yeah. 
 
Q. What is the big gold ring on your wedding finger?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Definitely not married. I still got a life to lead. 
 
Q. What is the story about the ring?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I went to the Greek Islands, there was a really nice jewelry shop.
I had it made for me. It is really nice, and I thought maybe I will pick more chicks if
they think I am married (laughs). 
 
Q. Has it worked?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I have been a good boy. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT