US OPEN
September 1, 1998
Mark Philippoussis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  How did that feel for you today?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I felt good on the court. I was in Florida last week and training really hard and just getting ready for this week.


Q.  Is there anything that you learned from today that you might use in your approach for the next match?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I just -- I have pretty much got -- I mean, the same idea for every match except obviously one or two things that the opponent does, so I will change on that.  Pretty much play my own game and mix up a few things and come in and just stay relaxed.


Q.  What were you thinking when you lost your opening serve?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Nothing at all.  Only 2-Love in the first set.  I was confident that I could come back, so it didn't worry me at all.


Q.  Were you happy with your serve after that?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah, I was happy.  My timing gets better after each match, so hopefully it will be a lot better.


Q.  What is your expectations this year here?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, I haven't done great in the summer, the good thing is that I am feeling great at the moment.  Like I said, I have been working hard and this is the one to do well in.  I feel like I have prepared well and I am hyped up for it, so, it will be interesting.


Q.  You like the looks of your draw?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I just -- I don't even know who I play next round.  One round by one round.


Q.  Agassi and Sampras yesterday both talked about the speed of the court being the fastest that they have found at a U.S. Open.  How did you find the courts?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  It was quick, I thought, definitely.  The balls were bouncing up pretty high and, I mean, it suits me so I am not complaining at all.


Q.  Reflect a little bit more on the year, there has been -- quarterfinals of Wimbledon, what kind of year has it been for you from your perspective?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Definitely hasn't been a satisfying year.  That is what happens, I mean, you have a lot of up and downs, and I am only 21 and I am turning 22 the end of this year and I am still maturing, and I  have nowhere reached my peak of maturity and I am enjoying myself a lot outside of the courts and other things in life, and I think in maybe in next year I am going to have to take that step and really dedicate myself completely to tennis.  Not that I haven't been, but maybe that I could a bit more.


Q.  At what periods, you were obviously down about your game.  Do you feel on top of things now?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Good thing about myself I never dwell too much on the loss.  I get back on the court and train hard and enjoy myself.  I am up for this next couple of weeks and I feel good.


Q.  Could you comment on your current coaching situation?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, my coach is Pat Cash and I am still working with Gavin Hopper.  My father is travelling with me here and just keeping an eye on me just to see me play.


Q.  You were just saying that it hasn't been a satisfying year, what would make it a satisfying year for you?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, like I said, pretty much a couple months ago I think I played too many tournaments this year and just burnt out a bit mentally more than anything.  And I think that has a lot to do with it.  That is still through experience, I think, of growing up.  Like I said, I am only 21 and I think next year I am going to plan it a little bit better, play less tournaments so I can get up for each one and go home maybe after a few tournaments and then start it again.  I think that is the best way to do it.  But obviously I like -- everyone likes winning titles, tournaments, and I haven't won one since Memphis, but like I said, anything can happen with me.  I can play some great tennis here and there I would just like to be more consistent.


Q.  You and Cashy hit it off pretty well with the lead-up to Wimbledon.  How long is the association -- is it still on a temporary basis or have you made it more full-time?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  It is temporary at the moment because he has got a lot of commitments so he was with me at Indianapolis and this week and next week and in the few tournaments at the end of the year and we are going to sit down and definitely make it full time.


Q.  What does Pat bring to your game, anything in particular?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Consistency more than anything.  And staying concentrated on the court.  Obviously I lose concentration a bit and go walk-abouts (sic) in patches in sets, but I felt like my concentration was okay today, so -- that is good.


Q.  At the Hamlet Cup last week Mark Woodforde spoke about the Davis Cup.  He said it took a lot out of me and a lot out of Skud.  I don't think he realized how it would hit him.  (Inaudible.) How do you feel now about that Davis Cup Tie?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I am not pretty sure that anything hit me -- going back to that, I don't really want to talk about it.  All I want to say is I went there with a good feeling to patch up things which I was disappointed about, what can I do?   I mean, the guy's upset about losing.  It is hard and he says some things which I don't think he should without thinking.  So he was just upset about losing.


Q.  Have you seen the guys this week?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I just say hello to him. I am just worried about myself.  I am going to play my tennis and at the end of the year, when my tennis is finished, I am going to sit down and that will become a priority, but at the moment not.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT