US OPEN
August 30, 1997
Mark Philippoussis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Todd Woodbridge said that you and Patrick Rafter should play the doubles in the
Davis Cup and not the Woodies. What do you think about that comment?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I wasn't aware of that comment until now.

Q. What do you think about that?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I think a guy is saying something like that out of anger. I think
he's just upset. He's going to calm down. He's professional enough to know, to work out
some things. You know, really the Woodies playing doubles, they're the best in the world.
No one can beat them. I think just wait for Todd to calm down.

Q. What do you think about the comments that Mark Woodforde said about him yesterday,
about him being childish?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I have no idea about that. I don't want to comment about that. I
just want to worry about myself.

Q. How is your tennis game? 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I mean, it could be better definitely.

Q. Mark, what happened out there today? You put in a big serve and he was just flicking
it back.

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Well, I mean, I gave him -- I definitely built his confidence
during the match. At the start, first game, 15-40, you've just got to put them away from
then. 2-Love up, 3-Love up. Had mini breaks in the tiebreaker twice, easy volley,
double-fault. Can't afford to do these things. If I just play the tiebreaker just normal,
without unforced errors, 7-6, it's a different story. Just sort of built his confidence.

Q. Do you think you were going for too much and you were getting overanxious?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: No. I mean, the double-faults that I hit, I didn't like go for
them. Wasn't a big second serve. Just tried to kick them in, serve and volley. I didn't
have a ball toss, whatever. I mean, I didn't really go for that much.

Q. Mark, you've still got doubles with Pat and Anna. When that's over, what will you do
now between now and Davis Cup?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I think we go to Washington. Relax, play at the club where we're
playing Davis Cup. Just get ready. Play some golf, whatever. Just get ready for the tie.

Q. Would you expect to be the No. 1 rubber or the No. 2?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I have no idea till two days before the Davis Cup starts.

Q. Would you like to play Sampras first?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Like I said, you know, it doesn't worry me. Just whatever is best
for the team, for Australia, whoever is playing the best singles will be playing.

Q. Mark, reflecting on that performance today, how do you feel you're playing now as,
say, compared to perhaps when you were playing at your best the last 12 months?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Well, it's not like there's a great difference. A tennis match is
just -- it's all about a few points here and there. It's not like I've been playing
terrible, completely different than the last few months. It's just that the important
points are the ones that count. Thought it would be better, a bit more aggressive. I won
three or four matches; you don't know what can happen. Just a few points that separate
winning matches.

Q. How much do you feel that you have to refine the other parts of your game beside the
serve as far as trying to win and get to the level where you can win a Grand Slam
tournament?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Well, I mean, I feel confident on my groundstrokes. Just that
sometimes, you know, the thing is the intensity or the footwork of getting to the
groundstroke. Or once you get there, not going for too much, what shot to play. I feel
very confident in all parts of my groundstrokes, my volley. It's just for me, it's knowing
what shot to play at what time is the most important thing for me. That comes through
playing, you know, being more mature. I'm 20 years old. That's just going to come for me
in the next couple of years.

Q. Mark, some players say when they lose a match, they lost it because they wanted it
too much, too badly. Was that a case with you today at all?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: No. Normally when I lose, I don't want it enough. It's never that,
you know, I wanted it too badly.

Q. Was that the case today?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: No. I mean, I felt relaxed. Just doing my normal thing, practicing,
having a bit of fun, just ready for a match. Like I said, it's just those first few points
in the tiebreaker. Just didn't take my chances, that's it.

Q. Would you prefer to be a bit hungrier going into the match?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I mean, I was hungry. I don't show it as much as other people, but
I really am.

Q. Mark, at the turn of the century, what do you think the fastest serve in the world
is going to be?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I don't know. I couldn't even care.

Q. Could it go up to 150?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I mean, guys are serving stronger all the time. The serve will keep
on getting bigger. I don't know if the technology or the racquet is going to go for that,
whatever happens to the balls. Anything's possible.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT