NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 13, 1997
Mark Philippoussis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Mark, are you happy with the idea of having served "only" ten aces and won in straight sets?  Is that a satisfying statistic for you?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah.  I mean, for me I served I think smart out there, mixed up my serve a lot.  I'm sure hopefully I proved to some people that I haven't just got a serve.  I hardly hit any big serves out there.  A lot of spin.  I used my groundstrokes a lot and came into the net when I had to.


Q.  How does it feel to win a match other than in tiebreaks?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Great relief actually,  definitely.


Q.  Do you feel you're gaining momentum as this event continues?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Match by match, I feel like my groundstrokes are getting a lot more dangerous, a lot more heavier.  I feel extremely comfortable with my groundstrokes at the moment, very consistent.  My serves also, great rhythm on my serve.  When I try and hit one hard, I feel confidence when I go into it. At the moment I'm just playing good, solid tennis all around.


Q.  Any fatigue creeping in at all after all the tennis you've played in the last two weeks?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No, I felt pretty good, getting massaged, relaxing, feeling pretty good.


Q.  Working with Gavin now, are you concentrating on anything in particular with him that you haven't done before?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No.  I mean, just working on getting a lot tougher mentally.  Obviously, you know, worked hard on fitness as well.  I'm feeling great on the court. Getting myself a lot more tougher, a lot more eager out there.  He can't really make me get eager; that's coming from myself.  I feel a lot more hungrier to win more  matches.  Actually, I'm enjoying it, loving being out there at the moment, you know.


Q.  So now you test yourself against possibly the most competitive competitor on the Tour in Thomas.  Is this the sort of match you really look forward to now?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Sure.  I was really looking forward to today's match also.  Moya is obviously a great player, can play some great, solid tennis.  Obviously he's a baseliner.  I felt like I could rally with him, you know, today.  I felt comfortable from the back with him.  Against Muster, probably no one as heavy on the groundstrokes as him.  Hopefully I'm just going to play good tennis, I have been all week, just try my best.  That's all I can do.


Q.  Please pronounce your last name yourself.

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Philippoussis.


Q.  Philippoussis?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Philippoussis.


Q.  And your age, please?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  20.


Q.  Would it please you if your match against Muster is scheduled at night?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I mean, wouldn't worry me.  I definitely want to be playing at night because I play  doubles tomorrow.  Night or day, I'll play the same way. That rhymed (laughter).


Q.  Is poetry a sideline?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Becoming a hobby.


Q.  When you had that smash, that sky smash like Sampras did, do you think you can get up higher to do than that he can?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I mean, I feel -- I like doing that.  That's something fun.  Whenever I've got a chance to do a smash instead of hitting it normal, I like jumping.


Q.  You think you could sky a little higher than him?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I don't know.  If I had to, I have no idea.


Q.  He used to be able to dunk a basketball?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Sorry?


Q.  He used to be able to dunk a basketball.  Can you?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, there's moments where I can.  Depends how pumped up I am, if I've got a springboard under me.


Q.  How about without a springboard?  You can without a springboard?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Sometimes I have.  There's moments where you feel a lot better physically, you feel like you can.  Other times you can't.


Q.  What are some of the specific goals that you have  set for yourself this year?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  My goals were to get well inside the Top 20.  Of course, the Top 10, I'm capable of doing that I think.  I have the game to do it.  I know I always said this.  The thing that's going to matter would be my self-discipline; if I really want to get there, if I'm hungry enough to make it.  At the moment I am hungry and have that desire to get there.


Q.  Have you ever doubted your hunger or desire at any time?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I've never doubted my ability, but I have doubted my desire in the past.  It was actually a shame when I was injured, in Sydney, but also probably was maybe good for me at the same time.  Just got to sit back and realized whether I really wanted to play tennis and if I really wanted to be the best I could be.


Q.  How big is today's win for you and how do you compare them with other wins you've had in the past?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I mean, it was a big win, nothing different.  It was another match.  I'm in the quarters now, take it match by match.  I'm going to play another match tomorrow.  I'm not going to worry about Muster being at the  other end.  It's just another tennis player.  I'll just play another match like normal.


Q.  Mark, what are you going to have to do to beat Muster?  You played him once before, a three-setter last year on clay.  What are you going to have to do this time?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, I'm just going to have to play solid, you know, just play like I've been playing last week and this week, like today's match.  I'm not going to have to do something extreme; I've just got to play some good, solid tennis.


Q.  Is there any downside to being on a streak like you're on now?  Do you start to feel the pressure of not wanting to lose one?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I don't even really think about, you know, how many matches I've won.  It's nothing compared to what Muster or Pete have won, anyone else.  I mean, I'm just going to go out there.  It's another match. I'm going to play some solid tennis, win another match in a row and do the same thing the next day.


Q.  What have you been doing like to kill time like after the match when you're around this area?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, I've had pretty long days with singles and doubles.  Go back, have a swim, jump in the Jacuzzi, massage, eat, watch a movie, go to bed.


Q.  Is it like that on almost every Tour stop for you? 

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, depends where you are. Here probably if we got some time, play as much golf as we can.  We've got some beautiful courses here.  All the players can play as much as they want, so probably play golf, go out to the movies.  I don't know, whatever there is to do.


Q.  You really don't get a chance to enjoy the surroundings when you go to a Tour site?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No.  I'm not really one of those people to go on a Tour for some sightings.  Obviously we get to play in some beautiful places.  That's as much as I do.  Obviously I look outside and say it's beautiful, whatever it is, a castle, wherever we are.  That's as far as I go.


Q.  You played on clay when you were young?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I played a few tournaments when I was young.


Q.  You didn't play that much?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  For a few years.


Q.  I'm leading up to you, you played fairly well on clay in Europe last year.  Are you looking forward to doing that again this year?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I feel comfortable on any surface I play on, so it doesn't worry me.


Q.  You've been doing so well here and at Scottsdale.  Do you particularly like the conditions in the desert or is it just chance that you're doing well here?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I'm playing -- the thing is I'm playing good tennis here and my concentration is here. It won't matter wherever I am.  If I'm playing good tennis and I've got good concentration, I feel I'll have good results there, too.  This is my fourth tournament, I'm playing good tennis and I'm here.  I'll play my good tennis here.


Q.  Mark, I think everybody knows if your game is really on, the power game, that you can beat anybody in the world.  You've proved that.  Do you feel now if you're slightly off you have a fall-back game to get back to grind it out?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Sure.  Today I didn't go out there and blast winners everywhere.  I worked for my points.  A short ball and then I went for it.  I mean, I feel like I've got a comfortable all-around game.  I feel very confident.  If my serve's not off, I can still kick it in and work for my point.  Sure, I used to go for winners too early.  I've matured a lot since then and win a point by hitting a winner, just realizing if he misses, you also win a point; you don't have to hit a winner every time.  I feel comfortable. 


Q.  You said after beating Pete in the Australian Open, you had sort of a letdown.  How important is it for you to be able to beat players like Agassi and Moya in the same tournament?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  The thing is, last year when I played Pete, played a great match.  I was also at home.  I still wasn't as mature as now.  I've grown up a lot since then.  Lots of things have happened since then.  I was up in Sky 9 and hadn't come down till two weeks later.  Sort of felt like when I played Mark Woodforde, I've really achieved something and I really cared about what happened against Mark.  I wasn't there for the match, which was completely wrong.  Now, I beat Andre.  It was a good win.  I beat Andre.  But, you know, it's different if I beat Andre in a final, because I've won the tournament.  It was the first round.  You've got to keep on going.  It's just another match.  Take it match by match, no matter who I play.


Q.  Is it something that pleases you or is it normal?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  It pleases me.  I think about it maybe till ten minutes or probably that night, then tomorrow is the next day and I've got to play another match.  I've got to start all over again.  I can't really think about the win I've had against Andre two days later.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT