NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 11, 1997
Mark Philippoussis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.   You said when they told you the draw that it will be fun out there. Was it as much fun as you anticipated?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah, it was great.  The atmosphere was great.  I was looking forward to a great match and definitely extremely tough and, you know, and just happy to get through.


Q.   What is the biggest serve you ever hit?  Was it is 42 the biggest or have there ever been bigger serves in practice?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Only in matches pretty much on center court at tournaments is the speed radar guns and pretty much just in matches; not in practice.


Q.   If you are going to hit a big serve, do you do it in the first game or two?  Do you have the most left early on in the first game or second game or it could happen --

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No, I have to start to let them know I am going to serve big.  I feel I can keep it going throughout the match.


Q.   Was there a time when you couldn't keep it going throughout the match?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, I mean, at the start, well, I mean, I served pretty big.  I mean, still ended up serving big, but not as big as I started, so -- when I started maybe three, four years ago.


Q.   What else are you doing now that is enabling you to have the success that you are having now?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  What do you mean?


Q.   What else in your game?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  What else do I do?


Q.   Why are you having the success now that you are having the past week?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, I think the thing is my game is always there, mental-wise, you know, I have been tough in my matches.  And, I have been wanting to win badly.  And, I have just been mentally  tough in my matches.  That is what got me through.


Q.   Do you like the image of being the biggest server in the game?   Do you like that or would you rather have a little more imagery of an all-around player?   Seeking that, are you trying to get rid of this image as the biggest server?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  You don't think I have an all-around game?


Q.   Yeah, you do, but the thing the people think about -- obviously, you have all-around game.  You just beat Agassi.  But, the thing that people think about -- the thing that people write about, because it is such an outstanding thing, is your huge serve.  Do you think about that?   Do you work on that to kind of talk about it at press conference so that people will look at you in different ways?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I don't have to talk, I mean, I have always had a big serve.  That is just one of my weapons; probably the biggest weapon.  I mean, I can hit winners on my forehand and on my backhand; come in, I can volley.  What else do you want me to do?  I mean, I serve big and sometimes obviously if I serve big, they are going to come back; I kind of hit another ball to show everyone that I can hit a forehand or backhand.  But, I mean, obviously, serving is a big part of my game.  But, it is not the only thing I have.


Q.   Mark, how was it for you to come back after winning Scottsdale on clay to play this match today?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I mean, it was okay.  It was sort of like coming back from the next tournament, I was mentally drained and more than physically, and I couldn't play my next round.  But, I was excited to win last week and very happy and -- but I don't want to think of it as like I have just won a tournament; I am satisfied and not care about for a few weeks.  I have won a tournament last week, no reason why I can't keep it going, you know, keep my concentration up; take it match by match, and just keep on playing tennis.


Q.   He hasn't been playing all that much lately and not that well.  How would you characterize the way he played today?   I know like the first set neither one of you gave up a breakpoint opportunity in the second set you did; not the first set.  What did you think of how he played today?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I mean, I am not sure. It is the first time I have played him, Andre.  I don't know.  I mean, obviously -- I mean, he wasn't playing at his best, but he played some, you know, good -- I am sure he played some good tennis.  And, he had some  chances and, you know, ended up a break in the second. But, the thing is the big points in the tiebreaker, I think I played well when I had to come to the net or, you know, went to hit some winners on the big points. I served well too in the tiebreaks.


Q.   This was a match-up of the biggest server in the game and allegedly the best returner in the game. Did you think about that beforehand now having achieved what you did; you beat the best returner in the game; is that mentally a boost for you?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Yeah, sure.  I mean, I am happy.  It is mentally a boost, like you said.  But, like I said, it is another match.  I can't think of it, you know, I beat Andre, I am so happy and forget the rest of the tournament because I beat Andre first round.  It is just another match.  I have still got another match to go.  And, you know, I made that mistake obviously it was hard when I beat Pete two years ago.  I was up in cloud 9 for like maybe two weeks, and I can't think of it this way.  There is no reason why, you know, I can't play good tennis week in, week out.  So just got to take it match by match, and just concentrate on playing well.


Q.   Were you nervous at all?   What were your thoughts before walking out on court?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Actually, the funny thing was I wasn't nervous at all compared to last week.  I had butterflies in my stomach for just about every match last week.  But, it was pretty funny, I was sitting down watching Venus Williams and the whole match I was sitting back laughing and they played some great points, a lot of matchpoints saved.  I was just pretty much anxious to get on the court actually, you know, I felt good; couldn't really wait to go out.  Like I said the atmosphere was great and couldn't wait to start and play some tennis.


Q.   Next match is Todd Woodbridge.  Your thoughts on that.

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  No thoughts at all, just another match again.  I am going to go out there and play my game and how I am supposed to play and give it 100%.


Q.   Next major, Mark, what do you think your chances this year are at the French as opposed to the previous years, have you done anything that would make you more of a factor there?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  Well, you know, I feel like -- I mean, I have got a good game on clay.  I feel pretty good on the groundstrokes, comfortable.  Obviously can still hit some hard serves on clay.  But, main thing is physical-wise, on the clay, it can get really physically tough and get ready for some five-setters if you have got to do that and -- but at the moment, I feel physically great.  And, obviously still got some improvement to go, but I feel pretty good.


Q.   Do you think if the weather plays to your advantage, if you get some dry weather and the courts stay fast like last year that that will be something that will benefit you greatly?

MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS:  I mean, sure, you never know what could happen.  Like men's tennis, anyone can beat anyone on a given day.  Like what happened last year, Rosset, I think, got to the semis.  Stich got to the final.  So big servers can do well there.  So no reason, you never know what could happen.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT