U.S. OPEN
September 3, 1996
Mark Philippoussis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Did you feel you served as you were capable tonight or was Pete just returning well?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: No, I didn't think I returned too well today. I think maybe I was
trying to force a bit too much at the start and lost my timing. You know, I started to get
my timing a little bit towards the end there. In the third against Pete, it's a bit too
late. 
 
Q. Is he playing the best that you've seen him play at this particular time? And you've
had a lot of success against him.
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I mean, Pete's such a player that he plays great tennis week in and
week out, which great players do. That's something I've got to try and do to try to win. I
mean, he's playing some solid tennis at the moment. I think he's serving really well. 
 
Q. Do you think he's beatable? 
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Well, I mean, sure he's beatable. If he keeps serving big, just
plays solid, he's going to be very tough to beat. 
 
Q. How is it dealing with the atmosphere out there tonight, completely packed stadium,
late night crowd?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I mean, it was good. I mean, I was a bit nervous at the start. Once
I really start the match, I'm fine, getting into it. You know, I think maybe just I was
trying to force a bit too much instead of getting into the game slowly and playing some
solid tennis. But, you know, I learned a lot from here and will do well next time. 
 
Q. Did you ever feel that you threatened him at all, it was a competitive match, or did
you always feel it was uphill for you?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: It was pretty much uphill, because I was never really ahead for any
part of the match. I just held my first service game and then I got broken, so I was
always fighting to get back instead of taking the pressure off even in the second set,
being up a bit, but I was never up, always down, always trying to get back. Always makes
it tough when that happens. 
 
Q. Mark, you didn't have a good night inside the service line. What happened?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Sorry?  
 
Q. You didn't have a real good night playing inside the service line.
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Volleying? 
 
Q. Yes, around the net, short balls, volleys. What happened there?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I think, like I said before, I wasn't serving that well. He was
making returns, but I think I wasn't getting to the net quick enough. I think I was just
trying too much instead of making a volley and making him pass me. 
 
Q. There were a lot of high expectations about the match and everything like that. Are
you very disappointed with the way that you didn't really -- it really wasn't a tough
match or a tight match out there?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I'm a bit disappointed, yes. But I'm not going to put my head down
about it. This is my second US Open. I feel I'm going to play a lot more, a lot of success
hopefully in the future. I'm going to learn a lot from this match. You know, I'm just
going to strong for the next tournament. 
 
Q. How did you feel going into the match? Did you have a high degree of confidence?
Good practice sections coming into the match?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Yes. I was hitting really well, practiced was very relaxed. Had two
weeks before the US Open, played three good matches to get here. I think I did the right
thing preparing for the match and everything, but just didn't do well when I had to. 
 
Q. Do you remember the breakpoint you had on him?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Yes. 
 
Q. Go through it. Did you rush that?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Yeah. I pretty much felt he was going to serve that second serve
there. I wanted to hit and come in. I was coming in before I even hit the ball. I rushed
everything instead of making him play. I had one breakpoint opportunity, you know. The
many he had made it very tough for myself. I knew I'm not going to have that much chance.
When I had the first one, I felt like I really had to do something with it and put too
much pressure on myself. 
 
Q. Mark, can you remember the last time you went through a match this long without
having a breakpoint?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Yeah, sure. My last match against Mark Woodforde at the Australian
Open was not too good, too. I think it's more positive than the last match. You know, I've
learned lot since then. You have matches like that. 
 
Q. Are you looking forward to a Grand Slam tournament where you don't have Pete in your
quarter?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I'd like that. When I first draw -- the draw of the US Open, they
did it twice, the first time I had to play him in the third round, second time I played
him in the fourth round. If you want to do well in the Grand Slams, you want to beat the
top players no matter. To win a Grand Slam, you're going to have to beat the top players
anyway, so it doesn't really matter when you play them. 
 
Q. When you thought they were redoing the draw, did you say, "I'm going to be out
of Pete's quarter"?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Not really. I mean, I suppose I did feel a bit like that, but I
also had to play him fourth round, had to win three good matches to get there, so I never
really thought about it. 
 
Q. This is your fourth match against Pete. All four of those have been in Grand Slam
events. Do you feel any kind of rivalry building between you, the kind of matches that the
public really wants to see?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I don't know if it's a rivalry like Pete had with Andre. Went
pretty comfortably this time like it did at Wimbledon. I've just got to mature a lot more
on the court, pretty much try and see what guys like him, what they do on the court, how
they present themselves, how positive they are, and hopefully I'll learn a bit from them. 
 
Q. You had been pretty competitive in the previous three matches. In fact, you won one
of them.
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Yeah. That's why I thought I might have a good match, do well. I
was very competitive, pumped up, really wanted to do well. I mean, I was still trying out
there, I was very competitive. He was just playing some good tennis. 
 
Q. Can you compare those two matches at all, not from a technical sense, but from maybe
Pete's incentive, desire between the Australian and here?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Sorry? 
 
Q. Can you compare those two matches at all from the standpoint of how much motivation
Pete had at the Australian and now? He hasn't won a Grand Slam all year.
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: I'm sure he likes to do well in the Grand Slams and he wants to
win. He's pretty pumped up. Really wants to do well here, wants to try to win it. But, I
mean, I know he's going to come out and try to win, but still doesn't worry about me. I
have to come out and pump myself up, too, no matter how pumped up he is. 
 
Q. In the deuce court when you're serving, he was playing you almost right on the
single's sideline, almost into the alley. Did he situate himself there in the previous
matches when you were serving into the deuce court, showing you a lot of backhand today?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Well, to tell you the truth, I don't really remember last time. I
think today it wouldn't -- I don't think it really matters where a guy stands. Sure, I
mean, when I served big, I felt pretty confident. I started to serve well at the end.
Maybe he started reading my serve a bit. You're right, maybe he was trying to make me
serve a lot down the T and was ready for me. 
 
Q. Goran said when he faced you in doubles that he realized now what it felt like when
players complained going up against his serve. When you go up against Pete serving like he
does, when he's on, do you know what it's like when players complain about your serve and
playing against you? Is that the one time you know what it's like to go up against that?
 
 MARK PHILIPPOUSSIS: Well, I mean, when Pete serves well, he gets a high personal of
first serves in, it's really hard for me to read his serve because he's always got the
same ball toss and he can serve anywhere. When he serves well, one of the best serves in
the world, no doubt about that. 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT