DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 3, 2012
Charles Schwab
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You really had to grind coming in and you birdied 17 and 18.   Looks like you're just on the right side of the bubble. 
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Yeah, I needed to make a few birdies coming in.   It was nice to finally hit good shots.

Q.   It wasn't just the last two holes, I saw you grinding throughout the whole round, really nice pars at 12 and 13, as well. 
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   I was.   I'm having trouble with my rib again.   I'm doubtful if I am going to play next week.   But I can't complain.   I made a few bad swings out there.   It wasn't pretty.

Q.   We all know you had a frustrating finish to the round on Sunday.   You were obviously able to put that behind you. 
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   I mean, it wasn't an ideal finish.   I played so well on Friday and Saturday and then gave it away on Sunday, but you've got to get on with it.

Q.   Did you know where you were in the standings for much of the round?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   First time I looked at it was walking off 17 tee.

Q.   Whether you go or not to Crooked Stick, whether the injury allows you to play, it's nice to have options and nice to have a strong finish. 
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   Thank you.

Q.   What a way to finish, birdie‑birdie.   Right now you're projected into the BMW Championship, surviving and moving on.   How proud are you of that finish to get into the position that you are in? 
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   I mean, pretty mixed feelings.   I obviously feel that I finished well.   Teeing off Sunday, I figured I could win.   It was good to finish well.   I didn't play particularly well, and it was nice to hit a few good shots on the last holes.

Q.   For those who have followed you, you've been bothered by a rib injury this entire summer, and earlier this week it triggered up again.   Where is your body now moving forward in the FedExCup Playoffs? 
CHARL SCHWARTZEL:   I'm a bit doubtful whether I'm going to play next week.   I actually injured it at the U.S. Open, and it seems to be coming back.   It's not as advanced as it was there.   It's not torn, but it's very uncomfortable, and I don't want to get to that stage where I can't play for the rest of the year.   This is my seventh in a row.   It was a little bit too much coming up.   But I'll see.   Maybe we'll have to get some rest and maybe it'll be okay, but it's very uncomfortable at the moment.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT