WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 6, 2011
Charles Schwab
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Talk me through some of that finish. Brought up memories?
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Yeah, definitely did. When I made that birdie on 17, I figured to myself, yeah, there we go. There's four in a row. See if you can make it five. 
 Like I say, I played really well all week. Just haven't seen any of those putts go in like I did on the last five holes. I gave myself great opportunities coming in and found a little something on the putting green on 14. You know, they all went in the middle.

 Q. Looked like you could have done with perhaps one or two more gains to really get in the mix?
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: The problem of late has been that I've missed too many short putts. And that kills the momentum. You know, 3-, 4-footers -- sometimes I would hit a 6-iron to four foot and miss it and it feels like someone has pushed a knife through you. It hurts because you've done so much to get there. It's just converting and it's been going like that, and it stops the momentum, it just does. 

 Q. And it plays on your mind presumably when you miss one, and then a second?
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: It plays in your mind and makes you frustrated, because it's not showing actually how good you're playing. And that's very frustrating.

 Q. You're in for a fine finish come what may, now. Can't see you winning it because the others won't slip up that much but you'll be right up there. 
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: It's going to be a better finish than if I had five pars in a row. I'm delighted. To me it sort of just gives you a bit of -- it just sort of shows me that I did play well this week, because I felt like I played really well, and I was sort of nowhere to be seen on the board. The finish helps a lot.

 Q. Does give the concrete evidence that you can actually look at something on paper and say it worked out?
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Exactly. You know, you grind out there for so long and hit fairway, green, fairway, green, and you never make a putt, and you walk off with a 2-under par and everyone says well done and deep down, you feel like it should have been so much better and you're actually disappointed. That's what it's been the last couple of days. Nice to make a few putts. 

 Q. Japan next and onto Australia and then South Africa kicking in. 
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Yeah, and we've got the World Cup. It's a really exciting couple of weeks. The end of the year is giving us some different things to look forward to, and I think it's going to be great. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT