UBS HONG KONG OPEN
November 21, 2008
Peter Oosterhuis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RODDY WILLIAMS: Thanks very much for coming in and joining us, terrific round out there, 8-under par 62 and just one off the course record and puts you into a share of the lead. You must be very pleased with today's round. 
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, it was good. It could have been -- I don't want to say it could have been more, but I played well. I hit 17 greens in regulation, and I made some putts. 
 Yesterday, I didn't hit it too close really to make any putts. But it happens, golf. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS: Obviously Sterne had a good round yesterday. Was there a bit of rivalry between you two South Africans? 
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, there's always a little bit of a rivalry. Sterne played really well yesterday and I didn't think I was going to be ahead of him after today. But you know, there's two more rounds left, so we'll see after that. 

 Q. I realise that all of the leaders are on the leaderboard are starting from the back nine. Do you think you get a better momentum starting from the back nine than the front nine? 
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I don't know. The greens were definitely better than yesterday playing early out. It was quite a bit bumpy yesterday afternoon. But playing from -- I think you can get started and quickly make a few birdies if you're hitting it nicely starting off the 10th. 
 I did exactly that. I missed a short one on the 10th to start with, a 6-foot one I missed. And then I lipped-out on 11, a long-ish putt for birdie. I just got going from there and I made three in a row. 
 I think it's probably easier getting those holes out of the way to be honest. I'm getting to the front nine a bit more relaxed. There's a lot of birdie chances on the front nine, also. I think it might be a bit of an advantage. 

 Q. Can you talk a bit more about what sort of adjustments you made yesterday and what made the difference?
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I didn't make any adjustments. I played well yesterday, as well. I had an unfortunate second shot on the 9th yesterday, hitting into the hazard on the right, and ended up with a double-bogey. 
 Other than that, I made 15 pars and two birdies to shoot my level par. It could have been 3- or 4-under, but you know, anything can happen in this game. My iron shots were much better today and I got it closer, which made it easier to make the birdies. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS: How are you going to approach the weekend now? 
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Well, I've been playing well for the last seven months, really. I just can't get that final, final edge in. 
 But I'm just going to play the way I played the last two rounds and the last seven months really, and I'm quite confident with the way I'm playing, and I knew I had a low one in me coming into this week. I'm pretty sure I've got another one or two left. 
 So, I'm hitting it well, I must say, and I've worked on my putting a bit the last five, six months, and it's finally getting a bit more consistent. So you know, I'm quite confident, yeah. 

 Q. Is this your best round? 
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I think in a European Tour event, 62 is probably my lowest, yeah. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS: You've had a lot of success in South Africa. 
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS: Are you going to be able to draw on those successes and experiences the next two days? 
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, it's always fun going back to South Africa and playing in front of your home crowd. It always seems a bit easier. 
 But I will definitely think of the wins I had there and take it out on the weekend. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS: Louis, thanks very much indeed and very well played today. Good luck over the weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT