U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 19, 2019
Joseph Deraney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Obviously a little disappointed. You had 3-up leads twice. Obviously came back on you.  
JOSEPH DERANEY: Yes, he did come back. Yeah, I played fine. Yeah, sure, I wish the outcome was different, but I played well. Over 36 holes when I guy doesn't miss a putt inside 10 feet, eventually it was tough to beat 'em, right?   
So, yeah, you he got I guess a few good breaks, but he played great and putted just probably the best I've ever seen over the course of, what, 35 holes?   
 Q.  35 holes, yeah.  
JOSEPH DERANEY: Literally I think you could probably count he might have missed one putt inside 10 feet.   
 Q.  The one on 12 in the morning.  
JOSEPH DERANEY: Yeah. Outside of that it's like, what are you going to do?   
 Q.  You had some missed opportunities. I didn't see on 15, but obviously on 16 you had a chance to tie; then 17 had a good chance to win that hole.  
JOSEPH DERANEY: Yeah, so 16 just under-read it and then we had, I don't know, 15, 20 mile an hour kind of weird gust come up. It was still going, so I was like, Man, I'm going to have to play for that if it actually stays like that. So just under-read it.   
And then 17 I hit a good putt; hit it where we were looking, and had about a cup out and broke about a ball and a half. Ended up right next to the hole, but, yeah.   
 Q.  What did you hit in there on 17?  
JOSEPH DERANEY: So 17 I had -- because of situation I was 2-down, I had to hit pitching wedge when it's really a 9-iron. I had to try to squeeze on that front right part of the green so it rolled to the hole.   
Hit a great shot. Yeah, proud. I played well. Hit a lot of good shots. Didn't lose because I was nervous. Lost because he beat me. What are you going to do?   
 Q.  I notice you're walking a little gingerly. For a 36 year old guy, this is a lot of golf.  
JOSEPH DERANEY: Yeah.   
 Q.  Probably more golf than you've played in a long time.  
JOSEPH DERANEY: Yeah, I have, and unfortunately one the my toes now the skin is gone on it. Yeah, so, yeah, I was walking gingerly because there is a pretty nasty blister on it.   
 Q.  How tired are you fatigue-wise? The heat of the moment the adrenaline is going, but you guys don't play a lot of 36 holes. You don't play a lot of match play at the Mid-Am level.  
JOSEPH DERANEY: Yeah, so you got to be careful when you say ya'll because the other kid is 25 year old and essentially a professional.   
But, no, I'm not sure if I play any, so this might be the only -- outside of USGA events I'm not sure I play any, and if I did they would be in carts. (Laughter.) We're not showing up for that.   
 Q.  A lot of your tournaments are 72 holes. Over the course of a week, how difficult is this for a guy -- and you're in good shape - guy in the mid-30s who doesn't play a ton of competitive golf?  
JOSEPH DERANEY: Yeah, it's tough. It's tough. Really most of my tournaments I play are 54 holes, most of the Mid-Am tournaments; Canadian, 72 and I was beat after it.   
I don't even know how many holes we played. Eleven rounds in seven days is a different kind of deal, along with the grind. So, yeah, I'm exhausted. 4:45 wake-up calls every morning because of 7:00 a.m. tee times.   
So, yeah, I feel fine right now. Give it 30 minutes and I'll be snoozing.   
 Q.  How do you put together this week in perspective? You'll get to the U.S. Amateur next year; in this event for another three years; your ranking is probably going to improve a little bit. Talk about your week.  
JOSEPH DERANEY: So next year I am in the U.S. Amateur, U.S. 4-Ball, U.S. Amateur, and RBC Canadian Open, so my year is great.   
 Q.  Qualifying for the Open as well.  
JOSEPH DERANEY: Yeah, oh, even better. So, yeah, perspective-wise played well to beat 4,170 players or something so -- all of them but one.   
So, yeah, in perspective, like I said yesterday, this doesn't change my life either way. I wanted to come out and play well and I did but I got beat, so...   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT