U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 18, 2019
Joseph Deraney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So obviously a lot of ebb and flow to that match, and comes down to 16 where you went to work again. How did you eagle that hole?
JOSEPH DERANEY: Yeah, so hit a good drive, good position drive. Didn't strike it as pure as I wanted, but good position drive. It was playing really downwind and it was a firm green, pin was back, so I knew if I can hit a good solid iron and land it 10 to 20 yards short it would trundle and get close to the hole.
So I had 230 hole; hit 7-iron. I wanted to go about 185 and hit it very well and it landed 15 yards short of the green from what I saw, and then actually rolled up to there to a foot and a half so I didn't have to putt it.
Big turning point in the match. All square. He had just won a couple holes. Yeah, so if you get 1-up with two to play you feel pretty good about at least getting to the 18th hole because you know at that point at least you're going to 18.
Q. How did you play 17?
JOSEPH DERANEY: So 17, it's way downwind and finally that pin is on the right; pin has been on the left. So it's just downwind. So I hit 8-iron. I think I got the adjusted number from around 185, 190.
It was way downwind, and I was just trying use -- there is a little bank just right of it. I was trying to hit kind of a cut into the bank, kind of soften the blow when it hit the green, because they're starting to dry out.
It softened it enough to where it stayed on the back edge. Had a nice uphill putt probably 25 feet. He must not have struck his quite as solidly, or the wind took it. Hit in the bunker and kind of rolled to the back edge, so he had a pretty difficult shot in there.
Q. I know you've done well at the Canadian Mid Amateur. How much confidence did you have winning that again bringing it to here?
JOSEPH DERANEY: Yeah, any time you win, that helps, right? Up there, Garrett Rank is there. Garrett is, in my opinion, maybe the top mid-am in the world. If not 1, 2. He's also going to be my fourball partner.
So it was a fun four days. Any time you go head-to-head with him and beat him you kind of understand that you're probably among the elite players. So that helps to gain confidence because we both played well.
Any time you win, I was fortunate enough to win a few smaller events in Mississippi and then I won the Mississippi State Amateur, so winning breeds confidence. Match play is a little different. Still nice to be confident in what you're doing.
Q. I know you have a young family. Are you able to give golf more time now?
JOSEPH DERANEY: No. No. I've got a five, three, and two year old. They have just started school. My five year old just started school, so that's a little nicer. My three and two year olds go to like a mother's day out Tuesday, Thursday, about four hours. So I can squeeze a couple hours of practice in on Tuesday, Thursday, as long as I get all the other stuff we need done.
Yeah. Definitely don't practice as much as I used to. Don't play recreational golf much. My friends understand that I'm away from the family when I go to tournaments, so it's pretty dedicated practice. When I'm there for two hours I know what I'm doing.
I just get my work in and see how it works.
Q. Going into the semifinal, what are you doing well? What's going to help you win this?
JOSEPH DERANEY: I think you just got to stay patient out here. It's not supposed to be breezy here in the morning and it was windy. It was windy, not breezy. So greens are drying out. They're going to be firmer and faster. You just got to stay patient.
I just won that match against a very good player, as well as I won a match against Paul yesterday who's a very good player. I think I was couple over par yesterday and I think I was maybe 1-under, 2-under on that match.
Par is not a bad score. Take advantage of the holes -- the par-5s, you can take advantage of those. Got to just stay patient.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT