ROGERS CUP
August 16, 2009
Eugene Lapierre
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Your reactions on the week so far? What stood out for you?  
 EUGENE LAPIERRE: I will go just very quickly, because I just said all that in French, and I'm sure you understood.   
  
  Q. I need English.   
 EUGENE LAPIERRE: That's good.   
 200,000 spectators. A world record for a one-week event. We're very, very proud of that. The fact that Federer and Nadal showed up to the event, something we didn't think would happen just a few weeks ago, it really gave a boost to the start of the event.   
 It proved that all players like to come play here. It's a strategic date in the calendar. And also the fact that the top eight players in the world reached the quarters, first time in the history of the ATP. It's important. It shows the importance of the tournament, because the players come here to play serious and they want to go the distance.  
 The performance of the Canadian players, Niemeyer leaving competition with a tremendous performance against the best player of all time, Roger Federer; Polansky giving a good go at Djokovic; and Raonic qualifying, almost coming at one point away to beat the No. 10 player in the world, González.  
 And also, talk about the Green Plan that we have become carbon neutral 100%, thanks to the participation of the players to compensate for their travel by plane to come here.  
  
  Q. You got creative today to make sure you got over the 200,000 mark by putting 286 people over at the BN Court.   
 EUGENE LAPIERRE: Yeah, well, not really. We beat it last night, so it just shows that not a lot of people came in the heat to watch it on the big screen. Doesn't matter. It was sponsored, I think. So that's okay.   
 But it's okay. Next time we'll try again, I think. We did just surpass the 200,000 mark last night.   
  
  Q. Can you tell us a little bit about changes that are coming to the Rogers Cup the next couple of years I guess in Toronto, Montreal?  
 EUGENE LAPIERRE: Well, the major changes starting 2011, we will be at the same date, so both tournaments will be played simultaneously.   
 This would not change very much here or in Toronto for the people coming to the event. It's just the same tournament, and we'll do just great. But if you turn the TV on, then you are going to be in front of a mixed tournament.  
 I see it that it could compare to a second week of a Grand Slam, because you've got all the top players, male and female, and competing. So the broadcasters will be choosing always the top matches to show on television.  
 So we're making the bet that it's -- ratings will increase. Even if we have only one week of tennis, it will increase because it's going to be just the best matches all around.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT