ROLAND GARROS
September 27, 2020
Sebastian Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. KORDA/A. Seppi
6-2, 4-6, 6-3, 6-3
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. So you must be feeling like you're in pretty good form.  Didn't drop a set through qualies and first Grand Slam win today.
SEBASTIAN KORDA:   Yeah, yeah, it was a tough match, especially with the conditions, I mean, it was raining the whole match and it was super windy and super cold, but I'm really happy to get the win.
Q. Have you ever played in conditions quite like this?
SEBASTIAN KORDA:   Probably not, no, I don't think I've ever played in them, but today was pretty brutal.  But I'm super happy with it.
Q. Did the match against Denis Shapovalov back in New York, would you consider that a pretty positive experience for you overall and something that helped you did what you did today and have done through qualifying as well?
SEBASTIAN KORDA:   Yes, of course, just playing against the bigger guys gave me a lot of confidence, it gave me belief that I could keep up with these guys and play with them.  So, yeah, I'm really thankful to the USTA and to play my first US Open main draw at the US Open and had a good couple matches in qualies now and a first round win here, so I'm really happy with it.
Q. Could you tell us a little bit more about where you train and in particular what part your father plays in your career.
SEBASTIAN KORDA:   Yeah, no, I train in Bradenton, Florida at the IMG Academy, been there my whole life.
And yeah, no, my dad is a really big help, he oversees everything.  He doesn't really travel with me that much, but we're always in contact and whenever I'm home we're always on the court together and he's a really big help and I don't think I would be anywhere near where I am right now without him.  He's a really big help and I'm just really thankful to have him.
Q. Do you have any other coaches from Bollettieri's who travel with you?
SEBASTIAN KORDA:   Yeah, I have a USTA coach, Dean Goldfein.  He used to be with Todd Martin for awhile and Andy Roddick and, yeah, we have a really good relationship.  I mainly travel with him, so, yeah, no, he's not here this week, but I wish he was, I miss him a lot.
Q. Just wanted to know what happened at the end of the third set with your back.  What happened exactly?
SEBASTIAN KORDA:   Yeah, I think I was serving for the set in the third set and I think it was like 30-Love and I kind of slipped a little bit and just felt something in my back and I don't know I just stuck in there and started playing more aggressive and because I couldn't really walk, so it was pretty painful but thankfully it's a lot better now.
Q. So it will be okay for the next match?
SEBASTIAN KORDA:   Yeah, hopefully, yeah, I mean I just had a massage and saw the physios here and they took care of me pretty well.
Q. What are your relationship with your sisters out there and inspiration for you as a top golf players?
SEBASTIAN KORDA:   Yeah, no, it's awesome.  Especially they are having a good year this year, so we're always in contact and we're always talking about what we can do better and how we're doing, but, yeah, they're a big help and I love them a lot.
Q. Do you see them a lot?  Do you meet them a lot with your calendar that are not the same?
SEBASTIAN KORDA:   Yeah, no, there's some pretty crazy schedules, but this year in quarantine I saw my sister Nelly a lot and I saw my other sister, Jessica, a good amount as well.  So it was nice to have everybody at home kind of and because we don't spend a lot of time together but, yeah, it was a really nice time.
Q. Do you play golf as well?
SEBASTIAN KORDA:   Yeah, no, I tried to, I'm pretty good, I mean my only claim to fame is the only tournament I ever played I won and I beat my sisters when I was like 11 years old, so, yeah, they will never live that one down.
Q. And do they play tennis as well?
SEBASTIAN KORDA:   Occasionally.  I mean it's tough for them because they're always traveling, especially like two, three months at a time, so it's, they're rarely home, probably less home than I am and, but, yeah, whenever we get a chance we try to get on the tennis court or on the golf course.
Q. Your thoughts on facing John Isner next.  Do you think it could be a little bit easier to face him given that the conditions are slow and maybe what we're hearing not helping the big servers as much?
SEBASTIAN KORDA:   Yeah, I don't know, it will be a fun match, definitely.  I didn't even know he won I actually didn't even know who I was playing.  But, yeah, no, it's going to be a fun match no matter who I play and I'm really looking forward to it.
Q. Can you tell me about your transition from juniors to challengers to pro.  What are your takes on facing these top guys at this level over the last few months and where do you think your game is, how pleased are you and how do you feel about your level?
SEBASTIAN KORDA:   I put in a lot of work during the time off.  The time off for me was a really big thing.  I got to work on my body a little bit more and, yeah, I'm just super happy with the way I'm playing right now.
Q. What's your favorite surface?  Where do you think you will have most success in your career?
SEBASTIAN KORDA:   I'm a pretty big guy and I like to come to the net so anything fast is great for me.  But I grew up on the clay so I know how to play on it a little bit.  But, yeah, just anything fast, anything that's alive pretty much.
Q. Have you played much on grass?
SEBASTIAN KORDA:   I played was it Royal Hamilton, I played twice, and then the Junior Wimbledon.  That's about it.
Q. Did you like grass?
SEBASTIAN KORDA:   No, I liked it, just the results weren't there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT