WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2001
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Did you feel that there was a special ovation for you out there today?  Seemed very warm. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Not any more than usual.  I mean, every time I come here, the crowd is always like that, very supportive of me, very warm.  But, I don't know, maybe a little bit - a little bit extra. 

Q.  Do you feel that that might be because people expect you're on a roll, that this could be your year?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, or just from the accomplishments that I've done this year.  I guess, they want to see me continue with the success that I've had.  But, like I've said, I think they've always been like that. 

Q.  I couldn't help noticing as you came in, you have an ice pack on your knee.  Have you injured yourself?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  It's just the same thing from the French.  The tendonitis in my knee I felt.  I'm just taking care of it. 

Q.  Is your success more satisfying considering how long and hard you worked to come back?  Could you describe a little bit about what you put into that comeback. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I've put a lot into it.  Definitely made the commitment.  I mean, I started my comeback a long time ago.  It's just something that doesn't happen so quickly and overnight, you know.  I wasn't out of the game, you know, for a week.  It would take a long time.  In a lot of ways, it is sweeter because when you really have to work for something, you appreciate it a lot more; when it just doesn't come so easy to you, you really value it because you're the only one who really knows what you had to go through to get there.

Q.  Did you expect to reach these heights when you started? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Started when? 

Q.  When you were starting out in the game way back when, did you expect to reach these heights at some point, or were you just taking it as it came?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I was taking it as it comes.  I was just a teenager, too.  I didn't look that far ahead into the future.  Really, I was just enjoying the moment, you know, everything that I was just experiencing at that time.  I didn't look ahead.  You know, you have time to do that when you're an adult, I guess.  That's when you're supposed to do it. 

Q.  Do you feel as confident coming into this tournament, as confident that you can excel on this surface as you did going into Australia and into the French?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think I've always felt comfortable on the grass.  I mean, I think it's definitely one of the hardest surfaces, that's for sure, because it's just a whole different game.  You know, you have to be in shape.  I mean, there's a certain mindframe you have to be in to play on this stuff.  You never know who you could play against.  You could play unbelievable serve, volley.  The points are so short, you never really have time to work your way into it.  But, you know, I think I have a pretty good game plan of how I want to play on this stuff.  I've been practising well on it for the last couple weeks.

Q.  You may or may not have seen, but Martina Hingis just lost.  It's maybe stretching the point a little bit, but it seems to emphasis the precariousness of fortunes in this game.  There's sort of a fine line between success and failure, as your experiences have pointed out, as well.  Are you surprised that she's lost?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No.  I mean, I'm not surprised.  You know, you don't expect anybody to win these days.  You don't expect anybody to lose.  You just never know what's going to happen.  Every match is different.  Every tournament is different.  It's not always just about you anymore either.  It depends on your opponent also.  You know, so she lost.  You know, stuff happens.  You know, just to the next one. 

Q.  What was your last match on centre court, do you remember?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Before today? 

Q.  Yes. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Last year.

Q.  You were on it last year?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Against Lindsay, yeah. 

Q.  Your family appeared on the stand.  Did you get any power from them today? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Always, you know, when I look up and I see my family there, it always gives me support and strength, yeah. 

Q.  What happened when you got off to the slow start?  She took the first two games, then you seemed to find your game. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  Well, I hadn't played any matches on grass.  This is my first match.  I'd just been practising.  So I think, I don't know, she came out playing well.  It wasn't that I was playing bad.  I just didn't find my groove right away.  That's the grass also.  I think I picked it up after, and I played a lot better.  You know, I'm happy that I pulled that one out, you know, had a little bit of a tough time out there. 

Q.  In the last two weeks you sort of shut yourself off to get away from the craziness.  You didn't do the TV talk shows or anything like that.  What was your reason, and has it helped you out?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, the reason is because, I mean, two weeks later is another Grand Slam.  You know, that's the most important thing to think about.  Doing all that stuff, I think I would lose my concentration, my focus.  You know, I want to forget about it so I can go on to the next one.  Doing all those things would just, you know, keep living in the moment, not that it's bad, but do that stuff later.  But I'm not a big fan of talk shows anyway (laughter).

Q.  Do you find the pressure of expectation a bit harder to bear now that you've won two Grand Slams this year?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Hard? 

Q.  Is it harder to put up with the expectation?  Tougher to put up with?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, so far I haven't really felt any expectation or pressure.  I'm sure now, you know, we'll see what happens.  Okay, the first one maybe is just like a one-time thing, a fluke.  The second one, maybe there's something else here.  Maybe there's going to be more attention now.  I know for sure there's going to be more attention.  You know, we'll just see how it goes.  I think quick to handle it.  That's why I have my family and my friends, where I don't have to think about the pressure so much. 

Q.  Do you enjoy this extra attention?  Was it slightly easier when you slipped out of the limelight a little bit?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Actually, it hasn't been so bad or so out of control.  It's all been pretty low-key.  I just learned that I'm in control of that.  You know, I don't have to let it get out of hand.  I value my privacy.  All I want to do is just come to do what I have to do, and that's it. 

Q.  Both you and Martina have credited your practise sessions with her as helping you a lot in this comeback.  Have you seen a difference since you started practising with her in her game?  Obviously her confidence is shot. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Actually, I haven't practised with her for a year.

Q.  Do you notice anything different about her now?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I don't really want to comment on her.  I just talk about my game. 

Q.  After Paris, you were in Florida?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.

Q.  Did you have a grass court there?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yes.

Q.  At Saddle Brook?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.

Q.  Fairly similar?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I mean, nothing's similar to here, but it's grass.  It's as close as it will get.  It's good.  The worse that is, the better this seems.  So easier. 

Q.  Ten years ago you were the youngest ever semifinalist.  Can you remember anything about that at all?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I remember all of it, just being here, playing here.  That wasn't the first year that I beat Martina? 

Q.  That's the year you beat Martina in the quarters. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  So, I mean, that definitely stands out in my mind.  I mean, it seems kind of like a long time ago, but everything's changed, you know, even just the locker rooms, this new facility.  I mean, everything is so different now. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT