TMS - ROME
May 16, 2001
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  That girl played really well, huh?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah, I mean I think she played really well, one of the best matches maybe she's played I think.  You know, I mean she's a good player, though.  I think she's very talented, got a lot of good strokes, and she's tough.  So... She really picked it up, especially after the first set, so...


Q.  What was the problem with your foot? You received treatment. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I just had a blister.


Q.  Did it hamper you at all?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Uhm, no. 


Q.  Nothing to do with the accumulation of matches from last week? You felt pretty fresh in the beginning?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I wouldn't say that.  I think maybe I was a little bit fatigued.  You know, it's just the conditions, come out here, play so late at night and just, you know, really damp and just heavy out there, and just I've been playing a lot of tennis the last few weeks, you know.  It's just back-to-back.  So maybe it's good in a way that I just get a little rest time now to recuperate, really recover for the French. 


Q.  Are you going to stay in Europe?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah. 


Q.  How do you feel ten days before playing the French?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I feel good.  Yeah, I mean I'm not gonna let this loss hurt my confidence at all.  You know, everyone has a bad loss here and there.  And I mean, she played well I think.  You know, I got to give her a lot of credit.  It's not that I played bad, so it's okay. 


Q.  Is it a special tournament for you because you are the youngest to be in the semifinal?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah, I mean it's got a lot of good memories for me.  You know, I know I did well there at that time, so I believe that I could do well again there. 


Q.  Who is your favorite player for the French Open?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: What do you mean?


Q.  For you, who has the main luck to win the French Open?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Well, I'm gonna think myself, you know.  I mean, that's tough - a lot of tough players of course.  But, you know, I'm just looking at myself and we'll see what happens one at a time. 


Q.  You save the matchpoint, you're up a break, she seemed to lose a little bit of steam.  (Inaudible.) Did you feel pretty confident at that stage?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah.  Then she just came out with some good shots, you know, she was just really firing them.  And, you know, just had a little bad luck.  She had a couple lines there, so that helped and, yeah, I mean it was just very close.


Q.  Considering last week in Berlin, you seem to be more patient than in the past on clay courts.  Are you trying to adapt more your game to clay courts?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Am I more patient? I looked more patient?


Q.  Yes, particularly in Berlin. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah, I mean I think that just started in Charleston also, you know, you just got to change your mentality a little bit when you get on the clay and know that, you know, you have to work the point a little bit.  So it helps being in shape also, you know, to be able to do that and, yeah, I mean that's what clay is all about.  So...


Q.  You look really relaxed after three sets.  This means that you are becoming older, that you are more responsible in the way you play? You seem not to suffer too much for this loss. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Well, no, I'm just really tired right now also.  (Laughter.)  But, yeah, I mean definitely it's a loss and I'm disappointed, but I mean it's okay.  You know, I've been  -- last week was really great, I played well.  And just that's what -- I'm looking forward to the French and, you know, just on to the next one. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT