TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 30, 2001
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Congratulations.
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Thanks. 
 
Q.  You said you were excited about tomorrow.  Can you talk about playing Venus?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I look at it as pretty much playing the first time really since when we played was like four years ago or something and just completely different players now.  So, it is like, I think the first time playing each other, so I am just looking forward to it.  It is the Finals. 
 
Q.  How do you think her game has changed?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think she is  -- I really don't remember a lot from the match actually, so  -- I am sure she's improved on her serve and, you know, groundstrokes maybe are  -- she is more consistent with an all-around game.  I can't remember really like just from what I see now. 
 
Q.  Did you see the match yesterday she played?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No. 
 
Q.  Do you feel like with Venus you are going to come after her second serve, maybe even take some risks at times, to try to make an impact on her second serve?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I really haven't thought about it yet, of how  -- what I am going to do against her tomorrow.  Just been taking it one at a time and I will probably think about it later.  I think I do that anyways just with all peoples' second serve is try to be aggressive.  I know her serve does tend to get a little shaky, so, you know, we will see. 
 
Q.    Looked like you didn't have too much of a problem out there today?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think it looked easier than it was.  I had to play really well.  There is a couple of long points-- there are a few long points and I think I had to still be consistent and, you know, I did some running and, you know, I had to play well for it to go like how it did.  
 
Q.  Overall, Venus finished yesterday, she has an extra day to rest.  Do you feel having a match like this maybe it wasn't as tough as you know, having to come back and play tomorrow?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I mean, basically I am not even thinking about that because I can't change any situation.  It is just  -- you know, look forward to tomorrow and that is it. 
 
Q.  First of all, Jennifer, happy birthday.
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Thanks. 
 
Q.  I am a little bit older than 25, but I can still remember my 25th birthday.  It is a momentous birthday.  Can you step back and tell us what has been the most gratifying part of your tennis career and what has been the most disappointing?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, I think there is so many good parts to my career, just, you know, from the first tournament that I got to the Finals-- my first professional tournament and then, you know, just Wimbledon, beating Martina, then beating  -- winning the Olympics, the gold, so it is just  -- and I think this time now is pretty gratifying, you know, because the harder it is to get something the sweeter it is when you get it, when you achieve it.  So basically  -- and, you know, there is  -- also been tough times, but, you know, that is all in the past now and, you know, I would have to say now is pretty gratifying. 
 
Q.  If you had to pinpoint one breakthrough match, I mean, you started so early, but if there was a breakthrough where you felt that, yeah, you were going to make it-- going to have a career.  What would that match be?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  When, you mean now?   
 
Q.  No, earlier in your career.
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Oh,  -- well I think just pretty much making it to the finals the first tournament that told you right there to everyone that I was going to have a career, you know, so I think it just started for the first match. 
 
Q.  Hanging around the tournament site while the rain is pouring around, doesn't seem to be a real good way to celebrate a birthday.  Do you have plans to celebrate tonight or maybe after the tournament?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I hope I have two reasons to celebrate, for my birthday and for winning.  But I had a great day yesterday.  I wasn't waiting that long, so, you know, just my family was with me, except my brother, but I had a great day.  Lots of flowers and everything, a couple of cakes, and  -- (Laughs). 
 
Q.  Talk about how well you think you are playing right now.   Can you sort of assess your game and do you feel you can beat anybody at any time right now?   Talk about your confidence level.
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think now is  -- I am playing the greatest that I have ever played, I think that this is the best tennis that I have played certainly in a while.  I think each match I just get stronger and just gain more confidence each match.  Everything is working for me.  I feel like I have a real all-around game and I do feel like I can beat anybody and we will see, you know, once I play everybody and not that I am going to put pressure on myself for it.  Whatever happens, happens, and, you know, just, of course, you know, you don't get to this point without being able to play against anybody.  I think definitely, you know, for the women, of course, I think I can play with anybody. 
 
Q.  You haven't had a chance to play Venus in a long time.  She has achieved so much particularly in the last year.  When you watch her play do you kind of project yourself into that situation and sort of wonder how you will match up with her, what are your thoughts about that?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, I am just staying within myself and, yeah, I mean, I am not thinking how I am going to do, you know, I am going to lose focus in that way.  I am just going to play my game and I am not going to think, oh, she is like this goddess or something, you know, that everyone kind of makes her seem that way.  We will see when I go out there. I just have the confidence and she is just another player on the other side and, you know, I will just  -- I am not going to have any fear. 
 
Q.  How old were you when you first moved to Florida?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I was like five. 
 
Q.  Was it Greenleaf that you came to?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No.  Ft.  Lauderdale and Holiday Park. 
 
Q.  How long were you working at Holiday Park when Jimmy was there?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Five years. 
 
Q.  What pleased you most about your game today?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I guess that I was moving well and I was aggressive and still consistent like I didn't overplay my shots.  I think I went for it at the right time. 
 
Q.  Could you address the idea of having to beat both Williams in this tournament, facing both  -- seems like a tough assignment.
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, I just basically look at Venus being just another player.  I am not thinking, oh, it is another sister, another Williams or whatever.  It is just another player; another opponent to me. 
 
Q.  I wasn't out there when somebody brought a cake out there for you today.  Who was that that brought it out on the court?   Was it the tournament?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think so.  The tournament organized it, yeah.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT