TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 28, 2001
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Looked like in the tiebreak the last two or three points you will were a little bit more aggressive.  Talk about the tiebreak and secondly the extent of her injury.

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Really the injury, I wasn't paying any attention to it.  I didn't notice anything until maybe towards the end when she was just making some faces, grimacing, things like that.  Just like slowing down.  I mean, she was doing that from the beginning, I think just slowing down and just trying to play really slow.  I don't know, throw off my rhythm a little bit, but I didn't notice anything and just the tiebreaker I just basically didn't want to go into a third set and, you know, just -- really just gave it all I got there and just decided to just go for it.  It worked for me. 


Q.  Did you make up your mind that serve on matchpoint that you were just going to try to --(inaudible)

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I wanted to be aggressive but I also just reacted because she just threw it in there, so, yeah, I saw that as an opportunity and I just went for it. 


Q.  You beat her here last year.  It is always a pretty exciting match.  Do you like playing her?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, not really.  She is a difficult player to play.  She has a big serve and, you know, she can just, you know, play shots, rally; then all of a sudden come up with an outright win; just hits the ball hard.  So it is just not a lot of rhythm.  But I mean, I am up for the challenge especially, you know, we have only really played here.  We played one time on clay a long time ago.  But this is the only place I have played her.  Who knows how it would be like in other places. 


Q.  You had the trainer come out.  What was wrong?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  It was my foot.  I was feeling a little blister come up.


Q.  Just retaped it?  Did you put something on the blister?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Not a retape.  She just had to tape it for the first time because it was starting.


Q.  Was it bothering you on some of the long points?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  A little bit.  It is just on hard courts and it being hot, yeah, I felt it a little bit in like the previous match.  Just the more running I do, the worst it gets.  I especially was doing a lot of running.


Q.  Inspired a little bit by the fans?   Usually the Williams girls get on pretty well here.  You seemed to have a big turnout?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I remember even last year also they were very behind me and, you know, I mean, I definitely felt the support from them.  I think they definitely helped me today and got me pumped up and definitely helped me win today.


Q.  Do you feel like there is a lot of sympathy for you every tournament you go to and if so why?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I don't think it is like "Sympathy."  It is just more like support and they can just  maybe relate to me in some way and just, you know, they'd like to see underdogs and I guess people come back and win and do well and try and  -- maybe it helps them in their own lives, so.


Q.  How do you think they relate to you in that way?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  Everyone has gone through their fair share of stuff.  It is  -- maybe they can relate in that way, yeah.


Q.  That whole second set it seemed like it was uphill all the way, down 15-40, down 30-40.  Did you feel like there was a lot of fight that you to make in the second set just to get into the tiebreak?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  Well, I think I was playing so well in the first set and even the first two games and I just, you know, started to get thrown off there because I don't know, you know, just her injury and stuff she was taking more time and just, you know, certain  -- the wind picked up there and things like that, so just kind of got out of the rhythm there, I think.  It was tough.  She also started to play better.  She had an injury and she started to play better, though, so I think it was just definitely more difficult in the second set.


Q.  What kind of a self-talker are you?  Seemed like, girlfriend, you were sending every ball back.  Seemed like you had a resolve to not lose a point.  What kind of self-talker are you?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:   I am just very determined.  I guess it is because I put a lot of work in off the court and just basically, you know, that is what I am working for.  When I am out there I am not going to like let it go.  I am not going to waste it on the work I have been doing, so that is just what I have in my mind.  It is just a real like belief in myself.


Q.  Would it be safe to say that you have come more than full circle with the Australian Open win which makes you an amazing example of tenacity.  Andre Agassi quoted you as great example of human spirit.  If you had a group of kids that were going through a tough time what would your message be?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Basically just, I don't know, I am living proof that just when you think it is like the worst ever, it is not the worst.  There is always a light at the end of the tunnel and that you are in control of everything, just believe in yourself, yeah, you make or break yourself.


Q.  You took the balls back in the tiebreak, 4-5 had a very long rally breaking point.  Was that a very difficult point to win were there, a couple of shots in there that were particularly difficult for you to stay in that point?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No,  I mean, I think that that is just my level of fitness there that you know, that is what I have been working on.  Of course, anybody I think would get tired at the end of those long points, but really the difference is just being able to bounce back and play the next point.  So I mean, it is just  -- I enjoy it.  I thrive on those kind of points.


Q.  Did that point near the end of the match after an hour and a half, whatever it was you played, did that send a signal to you about the fitness that  -- the work you put in?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  I mean, yeah, it just proves to myself that  it does work and just, you know, just to keep going.  It pays there.  Really it is just kind of a natural thing.  That is what being in shape is, it is just automatic.


Q.  Anything dramatically different this time around than you did the first time around in terms of your workout?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  First time around.  Which first time around? 


Q.  Now that you are on a comeback, so have you changed how you work out?   Have you changed anything specifically about your workout?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No.  Well, I have like a trainer, a couple of trainers actually and I just -- they know their stuff and I just do what they tell me to do and it  consists of a lot of different things the way it is running.  All that kind of stuff.  Basically I also think, you know, I have gotten stronger just because I have grown and I am just, you know, not like this little, you know, baby-body anymore.  Just I am a lot stronger. 


Q.  If you should play Davenport next, you haven't had a lot of success against her.  You beat her at Australia.  Did you do something differently in Australia and what would you change from the other times?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think in that match I was just really focused and I was just in good shape and maybe other times that I have played her I haven't quite been in that shape.  I just was able to serve well and return well.  So I think those are the key things, but we will just wait to see how she does.


Q.  What happened at Scottsdale?   That was very close, yes?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yes.  It was a close match.  I think she played well that match.  I think she was definitely eager to get a revenge there.  So I think she played really well in that match.  It was close.


Q.  Can you also talk about Dementieva.  I know you haven't played her but what is her reputation on the court what kind of game?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I haven't played her in a match but I do practice with her a lot and I think she just is a powerful baseliner and she moves well.  So it is tough to say.  I have never played her, but from what I have seen her play in other matches -- I saw her beat Lindsay in Chase and she is just -- I think she is a strong girl that can move around the court. 


Q.  Are you using a new racket now?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No.  It is the same one still.  It is just principles.


Q.  Skyrocketed after the Seles win in Australia, is that where it started?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I was just, you know, the first time I beat her in a Grand Slam and I think, you know, I was really close to losing that match and just for me to come out the winner in that match I was like, wow, I couldn't believe it and I thought if I could beat her then I could beat Lindsay.  If could I beat Lindsay than I could beat Martina. 


Q.  Are you working on your mental fitness?   Any training for mental fitness?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, just myself.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT