TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 24, 2001
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 

Q.  Happy with that, Jennifer?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah.  I think I played well for it being the first match and playing someone that I haven't played. I just got the kinks out there in the beginning and I think by the second set I was playing really well.  So I'm happy overall. 
 

Q.  Going to pump up your first serve a little bit next round?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Pump it up? 
 

Q.  A higher percentage?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Oh, yeah, that.  I was going to say, I don't think I need to hit it harder.  I hit a couple 100 -- I hit a couple over my average. But I think, yeah, that's just all, yeah, getting used to the conditions and everything.  I mean, each match is different, so it was definitely, you know, I'll keep trying the same thing each time just to be consistent and be going for it, yeah.  
 

Q.  We knew you had this in you because you came here last year after a very good Australian Open a year ago.  You're showing us a lot of consistency right now.  It's not like that roller coaster.  Why so much more consistency?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I don't know.  Maybe I'm just really just focused on the tennis, and I got  -- I don't have any other distractions.  You know, I've just been consistent with my work habits and, you know, my goals and I'm keeping the same goals in mind. So I think that just makes me more consistent. 
 

Q.  What do you remember about the tournament here last year?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Last year that, I mean, I had a good win last year definitely, you know, against Serena.  I played a good match. I remember, you know, for that match I was fine, but not being in the greatest shape it was the next match that hurt me when I was like fatigued for the next one. So, you know, I think I'm in a lot better shape than last year and just playing a lot better. 
 

Q.  Can you go into some detail about your off-court training, what you like to do and how often?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Well, really, I mean, I just have my trainers and they just, you know, they tell me what to do.  And, you know, it's like I don't do that much weights or anything.  Just, you know, some running and, you know, quickness stuff and some weights.  So just different stuff.  
 

Q.  How many hours a day would you say you put in?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Well, I mean through the whole  -- just at least, you know, an hour to an hour and a half.  So it's not like that much, you know.  
 

Q.  It's interesting.  A lot of players start out with a particular coach, whether it be their father or somebody else then move on to other coaches.  A lot of them come back to their roots, the person that originally coached them.  Maybe it's a comfort zone.  That seems to be where you are right now. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah, comfort zone and also, you know, I trust my dad more than anybody, and, you know, maybe it's because, you know, people kind of say,  "Oh, you should just not stay with, you know, your family, that's kind of a bad combination." For some reason that gets into your head and you start trying other things. But really, I guess the thing that makes sense is just to stay with your coach, with your whatever, family, whoever's coaching you especially if it worked before.  So... 
 

Q.  Stefano drive you hard?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI: No.  No, I drive myself hard.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT