AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 27, 2001
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Has it sunk in yet?  Are you still kind of in a state of disbelief?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  State of disbelief, so not quite yet.  Haven't really had a chance to just have a quiet moment and just think about it.  I still actually  -- I mean, I just can't believe it. 

Q.  In the early days when you were winning everything, did you then expect to win Grand Slams?  Does that make it all the nicer now? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Back then, did I  --.

Q.  When you first started playing, getting to your semifinals, did you then think, "I'm going to win a Grand Slam"? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  You know, I think I was just too young to really think about it like that.  You know, then I just played every match, you know, took it match by match, and that was it.  The only time I really thought about it was just in that semifinal against Monica in The Open that I actually thought, "Wow, I could win a Grand Slam."  You know, after that, I didn't have more opportunities. 

Q.  A long, long journey to get here.  At that match point, you hit that winner down the line that surprised everybody, not most of all Martina.  What exactly was that feeling of emotion like?  What was the emotion? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  It was a winner down the line, but it was just the slowest winner (laughter).  It just kept, you know, going.  I mean, as soon as I saw that, you know, it was clean, I had done it, the reality just hit me then that, you know, "Oh, my God."  I just jumped for joy.  I mean, that was it.  I couldn't believe it just really happened. 

Q.  You started the match in a fantastic way, but there was a moment when you were 5-1 that you started not to hitting the ball as harder as during the first seven games, then Martina broke you, things became a bit closer.  Were you afraid at that moment that the set could go from your hands, something that was yours?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No.  I tried not to think about that because, you know, that could make that happen.  I knew maybe I just wasn't playing the same.  You know, I think because the way she started to play a little bit different, you know, she tried to start hitting the ball deeper, maybe a little bit higher, with more spin.  You know, it wasn't how short the ball is to be able to come and hit them hard anyway.  That was a strategy on her part.  Maybe I got a little bit tired from those points.  She was hitting deeper and more to the lines.  But just as soon as I would see an opportunity, she couldn't hit them all deep, so any short ball I could get, I tried to get on the offensive.  You know, I got away with the first set.  Then, you know, my confidence was just  -- was just riding so high, so I just kept it going. 

Q.  How do you plan to celebrate? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I don't know.  I'm just going to, you know, be with my friends and my family, you know, who's here, and just probably I'm going to be real tired later on after everything's kind of settled down.  You know, just get ready for the trip home tomorrow and then we'll see what I'm going to do when I get home. 

Q.  Martina Hingis said that you belonged to the Top  5.  Is it your feeling that you're one of the five best players in the world on the women's tour?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I mean, I think after today and after what's happened, I mean, definitely.  You know, I'm no longer going to doubt myself in anything.  Now I know anything's possible.  I mean, if I could come home with a Grand Slam, you know, then I know for sure that anything is possible. 

Q.  How much more special is it that you're going home with a Grand Slam after beating the No.  2 and No.  1 player in the world, which not too many women have actually done in Grand Slams? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, it's great.  It's tremendous.  You know, like I keep saying, I believe it, but then also I can't believe it at the same time.  You know, just from here on, I mean, I will always think, have the belief in myself that I can do anything.  I will never be afraid in any match that I go in.

Q.  We've witnessed some really great comebacks in tennis.  We saw Monica Seles' stabbing, her comeback after time off; Andre Agassi dropped to 140 something in the world, came back.  Do you view this, if you kind of objectify yourself, do you say this is one of the greatest or greatest comeback in tennis, and can you illustrate maybe how important that is for the sport?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I guess it's still  -- I mean, it's hard to say about a comeback because I've been back, you know, for a while now, even last year just getting to the semifinals.  I've had some good results.  So I think I've just been, you know, way past having a comeback at this point. 

Q.  Obviously, earlier in your career, sponsors just wanted a piece of the great success that you were.  Do you anticipate now that you are in the Grand Slam winners club, that that's going to start speeding up, a wild train ride to come?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I have no idea.  If it does, it does.  I'll just take each moment that comes.  You know, I'm not going to let anything change me, change what I do or who I am.  You know, I'm always just going to do what I want.  You know, no matter how many companies or whatever comes at me, you know, I'll just always stick with what makes me comfortable. 

Q.  Which day of the two weeks did you let yourself think you could win it?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Probably today (laughter).

Q.  What, this morning?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, of course I'm going to go out there and have the belief that I can win.  I mean, what's the point of going out there - right - if I'm just there to be somebody playing against the other player?  But I would say as that the match  -- you know, I had a good start, my good start, how the match went on, I really started to believe it more and more then, so.

Q.  Was there any talk of once you made the final of your mom and brother coming out here, or it's just too long?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Too long.  There was talk about it, but it would  -- by the time they got here, it would be over, so. 

Q.  Did you speak to your mother yet?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  To my mom, no.  I've spoken to everyone else, but not my mom yet. 

Q.  What did your brother tell you on the phone? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Just, you know "Wow, congratulations, couldn't believe it.  It was awesome, played great."  You know, that's all. 

Q.  Do you think this will be a tough year for you now?  Do you think you're the one that the girls will be out to look for, could make things harder for you? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I haven't thought about that, no.  I think it's going to be a great year.  You know, just keep doing what I'm doing, I'll be up for any of the challenge.  You know, it's always been like that anyways, I think.  You know, everyone seems to always play their best against me, I think, so. 

Q.  If any big Hollywood movie come would approach you to sell the rights of the history of your life, would you agree or would you say, "Leave me alone with the old stuff, let's just look forward"? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Never heard that question before (laughter).  That's interesting.  If I were to do something like that, I would never sell it for anything.  I don't know.  For now, no.  Maybe, who knows down the road in the future, but of course only on my terms, so. 

Q.  How precious was it having your father with you there every point? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, it was great.  I mean, I wouldn't be here if it wasn't for him really.  I don't know with any other coach or anybody else.  You know, he's helped me in my game so much.  He brought me to this poiint, you know, for my tennis. But I think today he was looking on more as my dad than as my coach.

Q.  What was the difference today between how you're playing today and your fitness, and ten years ago?  Why do you think you were able to win today than winning a Grand Slam ten years ago?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I guess just being older and wiser, you know.  Also I am, you know, stronger than ten years ago.  I think I just have more variety in my game now.  I guess now it's just about knowing more exactly what I want.  You know, just really had the desire.  I've had the desire, you know, to do something like this.  I don't think any career's complete until you actually win a Grand Slam. 

Q.  On the court during the speech, Martina said you were just too good.  It's one of your best matches ever?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, so?  It was one of my best matches, I think, you know, considering the circumstances and the moment and everything.  I think I definitely lived up to the moment, yeah. 

Q.  Your father says he's seen you play a lot better.  Would you say that's true?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I don't know.  I mean, I did play pretty good today, and I don't think there was much else I could have done today. 

Q.  When you were starting out, where did the Australian rank among the Grand Slams that you wanted to win?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  When I was starting out? 

Q.  Yes. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I mean, I just looked at it as a Grand Slam.  Any Grand Slam would have been great to win, you know.  But, of course, you know, the more famous ones kind of stuck out, you know, like Wimbledon.  But that was then, so.  Now, any Grand Slam, yeah. 

Q.  What is the next one you'd like to win?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  The next one? 

Q.  Yes. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, the next one that comes up (laughter). 

Q.  The US, would that be special?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Any one would be special.

Q.  Where do you think you have your best chance of winning another one? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I would have to say my game I think suits all the surfaces.  You know, I think I can play well on any surface.  I mean, in the Olympics, that was on red clay.  I always thought that was my worst surface.  I came out and won that.  I mean, I think my chances are as good at any of the Grand Slams. 

Q.  What do you think you have to do to stay as one of the Top-10 players in the future? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Just keep winning Grand Slams, I guess (laughter). 

Q.  How are you going to do that? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I don't know.  I mean, I'm just  -- somebody told me now what my ranking is going to be after this.  You know, I don't really look at the rankings, you know, I just look at winning tournaments and having the results.  You know, that automatically just, you know, brings you into the rankings, into the Top 10, Top  5, whatever.  So if I can just keep consistent, you know, keep at this level, I mean, I hope I can keep playing at this level.  You know, it will be hard.  I mean, from here on in, you know, I'll have to keep working as hard as I was working, just stay as focused and determined, keep working on my game, so that will be tough.  But, you know, hopefully with that I'll at least be able to have consistency. 

Q.  Does the reality of the moment surpass the dreams from childhood of wanting to win one of these? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, for sure, the reality, yeah.

Q.  Is it possible to compare this with the win at the Olympics, or just too far apart?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I was thinking about that.  But I think it's just too far apart.  I mean, that actually seems like another life.  So this is a new life, a different life.  It's actually winning something for the first time again. 

Q.  Was it just playing the game, or was it this moment that brought you back to tennis? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  This moment?  I mean, playing the game and trying to play for this moment is what brought me back, yeah.

Q.  Was that the motivation, though, the trophy that sits alongside you, a Grand Slam trophy? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I mean, deep down, yeah.  The motivation was just really just to live up to my potential or find what my potential was and just try to be, you know, the best I can be in tennis, whatever that is.  You know, I guess I believed that it was more than just winning good matches here and there, winning just a few titles or whatever.  You know, I wanted to go for the big ones. 

Q.  Did you have a good night's sleep last night?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  It was okay; not as soundly as I'd been sleeping, of course.

Q.  No dreams?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Some weird dreams (laughter).  I mean, I think I slept good enough, I guess.

Q.  You said, talking about your father, more than your coach today he was your dad.  I remember when you had the match point, you looked at him.  For me that was a very important moment, but I was afraid, "Is she going to make it?"  You were in the match all the time, and this link could be dangerous.  How it was in your mind?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I just looked at him at that moment like, you know, "This could be it, the moment of truth right now."  Just looked at him for support at that moment. 

Q.  For support?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  For support, yeah. 

Q.  It seems you got it. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  I've been getting it. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT