AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 25, 2001
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Has it been the best day in your tennis career in the last ten years? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  In the last ten years?  
 
Q.  Yes. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I've had lots of good moments.  Yeah, maybe in the last, you know, few years, yeah.  
 
Q.  Was today the best tennis you have played in the last years? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  You know, I think I've played a lot of good matches, you know, maybe not this good against a top player like I did.  I played good maybe not some other important matches.  I think this is the best I've played, especially being a semifinals of a Grand Slam.  I was real proud of myself for just, you know, not letting the moment get to me, and just being able to still focus and concentrate and play my game.  
 
Q.  It looked like you came with a strategy, and you followed it very well throughout the whole match. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I knew , I mean, I had to really jump on top of her early, especially on her serve.  Maybe I thought she was taking me a little bit lightly there.  So I got the early break.  I think that helped me a lot.  From the first point, you know, I just wanted to play a certain way.  I think I did the whole match.  
 
Q.  Is there anything you carried forward to help you from last year's semifinal in this match, anything you remembered from that one which told you either what you shouldn't do this time or what you should do? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think I've improved in a lot of ways since last year.  I mean, I was fit last year, but I think I'm maybe stronger now.  Maybe, you know, I was more aggressive this time.  I wasn't as aggressive the last time we played last year.  You know, maybe I was kind of intimidated by her and the whole moment, too.  
 
Q.  What sort of training have you done since the end of last year to get yourself ready for Australia?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I pretty much had started it even before the end of the year, you know, it's just not noticeable until the last couple weeks.  I mean, really the same thing that I've always done, you know, just work with trainers and do off-court training, the on-court stuff.  You know, as usual.  
 
Q.  You don't go on five-mile runs backwards or anything? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, not yet (laughter).  
 
Q.  You haven't tried to do anything different to speed yourself up, improve footwork, which players are always working on?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Maybe I just  -- you know, it's not like I need more strength, but maybe I did work more strength, not as far as like weights or whatever, but as far as being able to run back and forth and just not get tired.  You know, I mean, that's what it takes, I think, to play with these top players, is just to stay strong the whole time. 
 
Q.  Has your belief in yourself changed recently?  I mean, do you feel stronger mentally that you can do this than you have in the past?  Have you always had that and it's not come through?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think I've always had that and just not come through.  You know, I don't know what it is.  Just in this tournament, from the beginning, you know, it's like all of a sudden this confidence came over me, like this wave of confidence.  I just really felt good about my game and, you know, about everything.  I think it just has really shown.  You know, my confidence has been there already, especially now with these last two wins. 
 
Q.  After the three-year gap that you had, when did you believe that you could win a Grand Slam? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Till today (laughter).  I don't know.  I always kind of thought that inside anyways, you know, that I had a chance.  I never wanted to, like, think about it too much.  I mean, it's just such a long process.  I mean, it's just  -- it takes so much, you know, to get to this point.  So it's just something that, I don't know, you've got to take day by day, not really put that pressure on myself to just "I've got to win a Grand Slam."  Of course, I'm always going to believe it, I'm going to believe that I can win every match that I walk into.  
 
Q.  Is that one of the dreams that got you back into tennis, or was it tennis that got you back in?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Pretty much tennis is just what got me back in.  You know, I was happy  -- I guess I have to say yeah.  Starting out, I was just happy coming back and playing and even having a good couple wins here and there, getting my ranking up.  But now my expectations are going to be higher, now from here on in. 
 
Q.  Did you have a talk with your father after the match?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Actually, I haven't really  -- I've seen him, but not like a talk-talk. 
 
Q.  "Congratulations"?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Of course, yeah. 
 
Q.  Only that?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah. 
 
Q.  Did you say something to him?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I said, "Yeah, thanks.  Love you."  
 
Q.  To take you back to obviously those dark days when you really had some problems off court and all that sort of stuff, to get to where you are today, does that make that seem so long ago, and does it also make it much more worthwhile now knowing you've been through all those sorts of things?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  I mean, let's talk about the now and today, just the future.  I mean, that's just past history.  Definitely, you know, by my accomplishment now, you know, who knows what can happen on Saturday, but I think that monkey's been off my back for a while now.  
 
Q.  About the more recent past, not the distant past, since you started coming back, the early part of your comeback wasn't all that easy, it was a bit of a battle, it seemed.  Was there any period in this time when you wondered whether it was worth carrying on? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, of course those thoughts would, you know, go through my head when the going got really tough.  But, you know, I could have given up a long time ago then.  I just thought I got to that point, so why give up?  I'm talking about then, just the recent past.  You know, it's just  -- I guess it's not in my nature. 
 
Q.  Was there any one day, one match or one incident which reminded you, "Yes, I can still do it"? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I don't really remember right now.  I mean, I think maybe even the first time I got past the first round, you know, because there was a period there where I was just like losing first round.  My ranking was 140.  You know, I started winning matches, started pulling out tough three-set matches.  It started off with the lower-ranked players and just got better and better. 
 
Q.  It's all about confidence, isn't it?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Definitely, yeah.  
 
Q.  I wonder if you could explain to us the importance of your father's input into your career these days. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I mean, he's just been a tremendous force right now with my game.  I mean, I have so much confidence in him.  He has confidence in me, obviously.  I mean, he's the best coach that I've ever had, and he will always be the best coach.  I mean, you know, he started me playing tennis.  You know, my game is because of what he, you know, taught me.  You know, he's been traveling around with me more as my coach.  I mean, he's still my dad, but, you know, I trust him with everything.  Because he's my dad, you know, it's easier, you know, to have that trust.  You know, so it's  -- whatever he says I know is right, so...  
 
Q.  Is it easier now that he's your dad, but you're an adult, than when he was your dad, you were kind of a kid, he had more of a dad role?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I mean, definitely now I definitely have my own mind and I do whatever I want.  You know, he doesn't tell me what to do, you know, off the court, whatever.  He doesn't tell me what time to go to bed anymore (laughter).  Sometimes he does.  
 
Q.  Do you think that you've benefited from the breakthrough, living that kid-dad-coach, coming back as an adult, as well as a gifted tennis player, do you think that break really benefited your professional relationship with your dad, working with other coaches?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Oh, you mean working with other coaches?  
 
Q.  Yes. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  I think maybe we both learned some things from the other coaches.  I mean, even though when I had the other coaches, it wasn't like he was gone out of the picture anyways.  I mean, he was always there on the sidelines.  You know, we know how it works.  You know, there's no big mystery to it.  You know, it's very simple.  You know, it's not that I need that much coaching anyways, I think, you know.  It's just a few things here and there.  Mostly it's the mental and the physical, it's not really tennis. 
 
Q.  Can you talk a little bit about your two possible final opponents, Martina, Venus, what you know about them, how you get on with them?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I guess I haven't played Venus in a really long time.  I've watched her play a lot and I know the way she plays.  I mean, I think it's important with both of them that I just play my game, you know.  It would change a little bit on who I play.  I mean, with Martina I think I would have to be a bit more patient and be aggressive, not really let her dictate the points.  With Venus, I mean, with her power, you know, it's one thing to actually hit against somebody.  It's different just watching.  I think it's just almost like today, how I got to play, is just return well, serve well, be aggressive at the right time. 
 
Q.  You're only three, four years older than both of them.  It almost seems like you're from a different era.  Do you have a friendship, relationship, with either of them? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  I mean, I think as close as you can, you know, in this competitive place we're at.  It's difficult to be close friends with anybody.  But, yeah, of course.  We're all normal human beings.  We can get along, have conversations, chat. 
 
Q.  You mentioned before that you thought Lindsay perhaps took you a little lightly on the serve.  Do you think perhaps before today she wasn't the only one?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Maybe, yeah.  Maybe now it will be different, won't take me so lightly anymore.  Yeah, actually my mom told me what she said in an interview, what she was going to do, try to intimidate me on my serve.  You know, I used that as an incentive there, extra motivation.  
 
Q.  Can you sort of take us through maybe what your schedule's going to be for the rest of the day, going into the final as far as how do you relax, how do you prepare? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Actually, right now I feel really calm and collected.  You know, I'm not over-excited.  I really feel like I've put this one already to rest and am just looking forward to Saturday.  I'm just going to keep focusing like I have been up to this point.  
 
Q.  Do you eat a certain same thing every day for breakfast and go to sleep at the same time?  Is there any ritual that you have?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I do.  Yeah, I won't change what I've been doing (smiling). 
 
Q.  Can you tell us what it is? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  I have a certain meal for breakfast, wear certain clothes, you know, the same clothes, go to bed at the same time.  I don't want to go into too much because you'll think I'm crazy or something (laughter).  
 
Q.  Do you feel as though you are close to joining those elite players at the top of the game, or do you need more such results like today to convince yourself of that, that you belong there?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No.  I've always felt that I've belonged there.  I think maybe I should have had wins before this, but for some reason, you know, it just didn't happen; it wasn't the time yet.  Now I'm just very fortunate that now it is the time and I had, you know, such big wins against Monica, Lindsay today.  You know, I just feel very fortunate about it.  
 
Q.  Something you said about your mum, hearing what Lindsay said.  Was that on television in America?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yes. 
 
Q.  You have spies everywhere, have you?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, my mom's not a spy (winking).  
 
Q.  Did she ring you and tell you?  Was it a course of you ringing her normally anyway?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  It was just like talking.  We talked a few times.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT