AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 19, 2001
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  I can see you've done a lot of physical work in the last twelve months since I saw you last, and certainly in that twelve months your ranks really improved.  Now you're into the fourth round.  Do you link the two?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Oh, definitely.  That's a big part of my game, is being fit.  It always has been.  I mean, it always will be.  So, yeah, I have worked hard on that.  You know, I just had a few injuries there after this time last year and kind of got out of shape a little bit.  And so, you know, I just worked really hard to get back in shape and so I'm feeling good right now.  
 
Q.  What sort of physical training have you been doing?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Just the usual kind of stuff, you know, working with the trainer on the court, off the court.  
 
Q.  Sprints?  Weights?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah.  Running.  Yeah.  
 
Q.  How do you find balancing doing all that sort of off-court or on-court physical training when you're playing tournaments which are obviously fatiguing you themselves?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Well, obviously I don't do as much during the tournaments.  Just after doing this for a long time, I think you finally figure out the balance there, you know, what to do, what not to do, if you're doing too much or too little.  So I think I've got it down pretty good.  
 
Q.  It must have a real effect on your confidence, feeling very, very fit, especially having come through injuries and things?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah.  I think I'm fit.  I'm not like very, very fit yet, as I'd like to be still.  But, I mean, hey, in this day and age, in this game that's what you have to be, is fit to play with the top players. And so it adds to my confidence definitely.  
 
Q.  Does it also add to your concentration?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I guess maybe it would because I'm able to regroup and think about the next point instead of feeling so tired, you know.  And by that time the point's already done with.  So, you know, plus it's, you know, you don't maybe get as frustrated as easily if you can stay in there, rally the points and not miss easy shots because you're tired. 
 
Q.  Unfortunately you had to put up with a lot of crap off the court over the last few years.  Now you're playing with Jelena who's putting up with a lot of negative publicity that hasn't to do with her tennis game.  Do you think that's good that you now, as an older player, are still able to be on hand to just maybe give a bit of guidance on-and-off-court guidance?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I just really talk about stuff on the court, the court stuff.  I don't really have any comment about all the stuff off the court.  
 
Q.  Well, what about then on the court? Do you think even your maturity? She really looked like she was having a good time, was able to relax and play her tennis.  Do you think, being an on-court support, that was a help?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah, I guess.  I mean it was for me, too.  You know, I like her a lot and we play well together and, you know, she's a good player.  So I think it's just for both of us, you know.  We're just having fun and feeding off each other's energy and really just kind of thinking about the tennis and not wanting to think about anything else.  
 
Q.  Do you see a bit of a future for yourselves?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI: You mean in doubles? 
 
Q.  Yes. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI: It's tough to say.  I guess, you know, we're just taking it one at a time, see how this goes.  We've played in other tournaments before, so just see how it goes and, you know, I don't play that much doubles anyways.  So... She doesn't either, so it's kind of good, you know.  
 
Q.  How would you rate your game at the moment in singles?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I think it's  -- I'm playing well.  I think I've gotten better each match.  I guess the first round was a real test for me, and I'm happy to get through that one.  I had to really play well there.  And so hopefully it's made me tougher, I feel like it has.  And, you know, just one at a time and see the next round and, you know, just try to play my game, which I think I'm playing well, and, you know, still move well.  
 
Q.  Have your expectations changed now?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI: No, not really.  I mean I expect myself to do well.  I mean I want to do well, but I'm not thinking about it so much, you know, just to put pressure on myself.  So, you know, I just work on my game and as long as I'm feeling confident and fit, you know, I think that I'll always do well anyway.  So as long as, you know, I got that part down, you know, the rest is just whatever happens, happens.  
 
Q.  Have you looked ahead at the draw yet to see how it is in your section?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Well, yeah, I know who's in my draw and which part of the draw I'm in.  But I've just  -- I'm just trying to take it one round at a time.  
 
Q.  What do you do to relax when you're in Australia?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Well  --. 
 
Q.  Have you gone to the casino, shopping?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Well, a little bit of everything.  I laid out one time and I got fried, so won't be doing that anymore, especially how hot it's getting now.  I got to save it.  You know, just kind of going to dinners and just a little bit of shopping.  I'm in a great hotel, so it's fun.  
 
Q.  What do you think about teams, double teams like Hingis and Seles and the Williams sisters not being seeded?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Well, I haven't really given that much thought.  It's hard to say.  I think the Williamses, I don't know why they wouldn't have been seeded because I think they've played enough tournaments to get the ranking.  Maybe it was the next one, for sure.  I don't know.  But Hingis and Seles, they just played their first tournament.  I mean just because of the names, you can't, you know, just seed somebody for that.  So I mean they've got to prove themselves and just one tournament, I mean you never know in one tournament.  It could be a fluke, it could be anything.  
 
Q.  So the draw yesterday, they played the top seed, that's just because of the draw and the way it is?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah. 
 
Q.  What's your favorite Slam?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I like them all.  I mean, it's hard to say.  I always play well and have fun here, so I would have to say this is one of my favorites.  Not just 'cause I'm here right now, but, you know...  I mean I love them all.  They're all different. 
 
Q.  Where do you play after this? What's your next stop on the road?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I just go back home to the States and I think the next one is Oklahoma.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT