AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 15, 2001
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Jennifer, what did you make of your performance today?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI: It was definitely a tough one.  But I'm happy that I pulled it out.  Maybe it's not the best that I could have played, but I think I was tough when I had to be, you know, considering all the conditions and circumstances there.  Well, she was playing really well, and I had a slow start.  So, you know, I'm just very happy that I pulled it out. 
 
Q.  What do you make of the courts? You slipped at the end?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah, I fell and went over my ankle a little bit.  But I think the heat always makes the courts a little bit more sticky so it's, you know, you got to be careful for that. 
 
Q.  Are they different from how you remember them over previous years?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I think they slowed them down a little bit than last year, and also the balls, again, I mean they were pretty heavy.  So I guess they must resurface them every year so it seemed like a new court.  
 
Q.  Jennifer, I'm from Dutch television.  You're playing Oremans in the second round.  What do you think of that match?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I really haven't had a chance to think about it yet.  But, you know, it's going to be a different match than today.  You know, she comes to the net more often and has a good serve so hopefully, you know, since the conditions are slower maybe it will, you know, benefit me a little more.  So we'll see.  I'm really not thinking about it right now. 
 
Q.  Last time you two met she did win.  Do you remember that?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah, I remember that.  But that was, you know, a few years ago and, you know, every match is a new match.  So, you know, I'm not really going to think about that too much.  
 
Q.  Jennifer, Bruce Beck (Phonetic).  You said you felt your ankle was swelling.  Is it sore now and did you have any treatment?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI: The only thing I really did was just ice.  I haven't really had it evaluated yet.  I'm just kind of waiting until everything kind of calms down.  So, I mean, I don't think it's too bad.  You know, it's good I don't play tomorrow.  I think it should be  -- the same thing I did in Quebec but just the other ankle.  So I'm getting used to these little twists here and there. 
 
Q.  Which ankle was that?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Today, now? My right.   
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT