CHASE CHAMPIONSHIPS OF SANEX WTA TOUR
November 14, 2000
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Is that a case of principally a doublefault making a big difference? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:   No, I don't think so.  I think she just played well today, and it was just really close.  But I don't think it was  -- had anything to do with that.  I think she served a lot better and it was hard for me.  
 
Q.  But the double fault was -- (inaudible.)
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:   Whatever you say then. 
 
Q.  Describe the atmosphere of playing in Madison Square Garden; did you miss playing here?  Do you enjoy being back in this venue? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:   Yeah.  When I walked in, the memories just came back.  To go out, just for it to seem familiar again, I had just kind of forgotten what it was like.   So, yeah, it was good to be in there again. 
 
Q.  Do you think it is a loss for the Tour to not have a tournament here like they have for the last 28 years?  Do you think it is a loss for the Tour or a loss for this Garden event?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:   No.  I think it will definitely be missed, but, you know, where it is going to be next year, all of the players were consulted on it.  You know, everyone was okay with it, and, you know.  Also it cuts down the year a little bit, too.  So, I mean, it is better in that aspect.  It's just going to be less injuries and things like that.  You know, it will just take getting used to. 
 
Q.  How disappointing was this loss? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:   A little disappointing, because, you know, I wanted to play better.  You know, I felt good coming in to the match, just some things didn't go my way.  A couple close calls, a couple close lines, I think, and that's it.  I wish I would have just  -- the first time back, maybe just stayed around a little bit longer.  
 
Q.  What happens when that one play  -- after you hit it back and it almost hit Kournikova, when you hit it back to her after the play was over and it almost hit her?  It looked like she glared at you, from the stands?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:   I don't know.  That was just an accident.  I was just hitting it back and I guess it just went close to her.  I didn't mean anything by that.  
 
Q.  You were looking up at the ceiling early in the match, were the lights on you a little bit there? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:   No, there was a lot of flashes.   
 
Q.  Can you talk about what it was like to have such a successful year, your best year probably since 1993 and to be amongst the top Americans, to be part of such a great group of American players, and what you need to do as far as the next step to compete with Lindsay and the Williams sisters and have an even better year in 2001? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:   I think just go back now and take a little break and then, you know, just get back into working hard again and just to get more fit.  I think that's like really the key for me.  You know, and just try to stay injury free, also.  Just keep working on things in my game.  
 
Q.  Was it a special feeling to be part of that group, because it seemed like it was a big year for American tennis? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:   Yeah, I guess.  I mean, I didn't really think about it.  You know, I mean, I haven't like played on any of the team events or the Olympics or anything, so  -- I mean, just look at myself as me having a good year.  Not with anybody else.  
 
Q.  Do you feel you have it in you to win, moments like this, major tournaments? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:   Yeah, I think it is still definitely possible.  Just that's what I'm working for.  That's what I'm going for.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT