US OPEN
September 3, 2000
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Every time you guys play, the TV goes back to this '91 match between you.  What do you remember?  What do you think when it gets brought up every time?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I really don't think about that much anymore.  I mean, I think it's kind of annoying a little bit, to tell you the truth.  You know, we played last year, played a few times.  It's all part of the hype, the media's hype. 
 
Q.  The ball you seemed to be very angry at, to you was clearly wide.  Haven't seen you that angry. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  That angry?  I thought it was wide.  I mean, it wasn't because of that ball, you know, that I lost that game, you know, and then lost the match.  Of course, it's a little frustrating, yeah.  You've got to let it out a little bit. 
 
Q.  Why did you lose the match?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I think just from the beginning, she came out really strong, you know, just from the first ball.  She was just hitting them like full speed.  You know, she served really well.  It was tough for me to break every time.  Of course, that put a little more pressure on my serve.  I mean, I think it was pretty close.  We had a lot of close games there.  Could have gone either way.  You know, it just wasn't till the second set, I think, that I started just to get in a little bit of a groove.  I mean, the first set, I couldn't really even get a rhythm because it was either just like a winner, a mistake or a good serve or whatever.  You know, I just couldn't really get in a rhythm.  
 
Q.  Did you feel it was tough in the first set you were having trouble with your serves, getting those in, she kind of pounced on those a bit?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No.  I think I only got broken once in the first set, so. 
 
Q.  Even if you don't get broken, you felt you were going okay?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  I mean, if I just  -- I was up 40-Love in my service game the second game of the match.  You know, I was holding my serve pretty good there in the first set.  
 
Q.  Can you compare her court coverage from when you played her last year at this juncture to now?  Does she seem quicker to you at all?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No.  I mean, it's kind of really the same.  She always seems the same to me. 
 
Q.  Has she just been a thorn in your side through your career?  The last two years here, obviously, but just historically. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, not really.  There's lots of other players that are tough to play that are like thorns in my side, you know.  Nobody's easy.  I mean, that's part of the game.  
 
Q.  Are you pleased with your run here?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, yeah.  I felt like I was playing really well.  This match, I just didn't have any like time to really get into it and play I think the way I've been playing the last few rounds. 
 
Q.  And was that to her credit that you didn't have time to get into it?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  I mean, I think mostly, you know, the way she played.  And then also, you know, all the hype I think, you know, kind of revolving around this match, being a night match.  Of course, there's going to be more nerves.  I was just made to think about it more than maybe I usually would. 
 
Q.  What do you have left on your schedule for this year?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Playing in Europe. 
 
Q.  Which tournaments?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Probably Zurich and Filderstadt and Philadelphia, and maybe The Championships. 
 
Q.  If you thought about it, what were you thinking about?  What kind of things were on your mind about the match?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, you know, it's just kind of like everyone kind of expecting it to be like an epic match, you know, of '91.  I mean, that's history.  That's long ago.  Now it's a new day and age.  I mean, it's just completely different now.  Maybe in that sense, you know, I would think, "Oh, maybe it's not good enough now like it was back then."  Of course, it's just going to be automatically something that's blocking me.  Just those kind of things. 
 
Q.  What do you need to do to get your game back to the level that perhaps it was in Australia?  Are you searching for a full-time coach?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, I haven't really.  I'm perfectly happy with my dad.  I haven't really thought about it.  
 
Q.  And as far as making changes in your game so you can get to the quarterfinals in a Grand Slam, what do you need to do?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, I think I still just have to keep working hard.  I mean, no really changes in my game, that's for sure, you know, just doing a lot just to improve it.  Just being aggressive, serving good, better, returning.  
 
Q.  Is getting back to that level maybe a little tougher than you expected, coming back after a couple years, to get back to the level where you can make the quarterfinals of a couple Grand Slams?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I just did that this year.  It wasn't that long ago.  No, I don't really think it's difficult.  I think it's difficult when you've got a few injuries, to do it.  
 
Q.  At this point in your career, is being happy more important than being so result-oriented? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, I think of course, you know, happiness is better than focusing on scores and all that.  I think that would be for anybody.  That also makes me happy, too.  
 
Q.  What kind of chance does Monica have to win this whole thing?  Would you like to see it for old time's sake?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I haven't really seen her play against the other like top players, so I don't really know what happens then.  I mean, if she can serve well, like she did tonight, I mean, she has a good shot.  I can't really say much else.  Yeah, it would be nice to see her win it.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT