US OPEN
August 30, 2000
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







THE MODERATOR: Questions for Jennifer, please.

Q. Things rolling merrily along, Jennifer? You feel pretty good?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah, I was happy with the way I played today. I knew it would be a
tough match; she's a good player. So I was happy that I got through that.

Q. You've been here as such a young person and then in last year you had emotional
issues you were dealing with. Are you having more fun this year at the US Open?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I was having fun last year, too. I mean of course playing well and
doing good, that makes you have more fun also. So I mean I'm just, you know, having fun
all around anyways. So... I wouldn't say more.

Q. I think last year in Mahwah, New Jersey, you won that tournament. Few people
expected you to do that. Would you say that was a turning point? Do you look at that
tournament as a comeback?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Mahwah?

Q. Yeah.

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Not really. I mean I had won a tournament already before that in
Strasbourg. So I mean if you look at it as far as like tournament-wise, doing well, I mean
I would have to say it started there. Yeah, so I don't think it was just like Mahwah.

Q. I guess the fact it was in the United States, people said, "Hey, Capriati can
still play."

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah, but it was also an exhibition, too. So it didn't really count
also. I mean it was good, even though it is an exhibition. But it didn't start from there.

Q. How do you like Armstrong Stadium, the crowds?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: It's good. Last year I remember I was on that court a lot and so far
I've been on this court. I mean I'm really used to the court. And, you know, I still see
it as the real stadium sometimes.

Q. You can still see the upper deck?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah, yeah. If you can just picture that there. But I remember,
yeah, I mean they still crowd in and they're not quiet until like the first few points are
over from the changeover.

Q. Is it a distraction? The changeovers, people are coming, going, crowding the aisles.
Is it a distraction to you?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Not really. I'm pretty much used to it. So... I mean I guess the
tighter it would be, maybe. You know, I'd rather be the one receiving than serving at that
point.

Q. Do you hear what people are calling to you in that place? It's so crowded and
relatively intimate. Do you hear people calling to you and being supportive?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah.

Q. As opposed to other places?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: No. I mean if people want to call out, I'm gonna hear it. So it's
just maybe they call out a lot more here. I don't know.

Q. Jennifer, you've probably heard Jelena Dokic's dad was kicked out for the duration
of the tournament because of an incident. You know her a little bit. How much do you think
this series of control issues with the father is hampering her progress?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I have no comment about it.

Q. Was there talk about it in the locker room?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: No.

Q. George had mentioned the intimacy of the crowd here. Have you ever heard a fan say
something that broke you up laughing? You just thought it was kind of witty, it stood out
in your mind?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: No. I can't really think of anything. I mean just, you know, "I
love you," or something like that.

Q. Here?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Here? No, not here.

Q. Nice thing to yell out.

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I guess.

Q. They yell out a lot worse in this town.

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: (Laughing.) It's always a good feeling. At least they're not saying
something else.

Q. What do you think you need to work on over the next two weeks to really keep you
going into the second week? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Well, I'm still looking at it match-by-match, you know, one match at
a time. The next one is probably going to be Friday, and, you know, I think I've been
playing -- doing everything that I've been working on. I've been doing it well in these
last two matches, and hopefully, you know, it'll just get better as you get more into the
tournament, get some matches under your belt. So get out all the kinks and everything.
But, you know, if I can just, you know, maintain the consistency, you know, serve well and
return well.

Q. Is that what you've been specifically working on over the last...?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah. Well not specifically, that's part of what I've been working
on. I've been working on a lot of things.

Q. Were you following Lisa Raymond's battle at all to get on the Olympic team?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: To tell you the truth, no. I really had no idea what was going on
with that whole thing. So I can't really answer that.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT