US OPEN
August 28, 2000
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
 
Q. What was up with the sound system? It was pretty distracting, it seemed like. 
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah. I don't know. I thought it had to do something with the
umpire's mic or something. It's not all on one thing. They just pulled the plug
eventually, finally.  
 
Q. You were a little unfocused when you were serving because of that. It was so loud. 
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah, it was getting really bad. After that game, if it didn't rain,
we were going to wait until it was fixed anyway. 
 
Q. You came in here last year and had some issues on your mind that you wanted to lay
to rest. Do you feel more focused this year coming in, more positive about your position
among the women? 
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Oh, yeah, definitely. You know, that's a year ago already. I mean,
it's the past. Now it's just I feel totally different coming into this. I have no issues I
want to discuss or anything (laughter). I'm feeling good about my tennis also, so...  
 
Q. You look like you had a little bit of trouble in the first set, first couple of
games. She broke you once. In the second set, she didn't get a game out of you. Did it
take you a couple minutes to get into the groove?
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Maybe I was a little bit nervous, and plus she played really well in
the beginning. It took me a while. I mean, I really had to concentrate and focus on
playing better myself. Then, you know, I got in a good rhythm there. Then, you know, it
just started raining. It was okay for me. I guess for her, it just really threw her off
maybe. It's hard to come back after that. You know, I felt good all the way through. It
wasn't that long of a break. You know, that kind of helped, that it was not long.  
 
Q. Is it tough to get the first match of the tournament, the 11 a.m.? 
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: The first day of the tournament, yeah. I was a little bit nervous,
you know, playing in front of your home crowd, too. You know, you want to play well, of
course, and do well. All those things kind of make you a little bit, you know, nervous or
anxious.  
 
Q. Playing in a US Open, compared to the other majors, this is home turf, do you
approach it any differently emotionally, psychologically?
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I just try and not to put more pressure on myself because of that,
you know, like I'm really supposed to do well here because I'm American, playing in front
of the home crowd and everything. Really, I mean, I kind of treat all Grand Slams the
same. Every one is just as important. They all get that feeling, that you always want to
raise your level for this, you know, for the Grand Slams. I mean, it's tough, too. There's
a lot of distractions around. That's what makes it the US Open. If you win it, you're
pretty tough.  
 
Q. Were you happy with your finish at Wimbledon?
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: At Wimbledon?  
 
Q. Yes. 
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah. I mean, especially coming off, you know, not having a great
clay court season, I had some first round losses there. Yes, I'm happy that I was able to,
you know, at least get to the fourth round. I think I even played well against Lindsay. I
mean, she just played too good for me that match. So, yeah.  
 
Q. How hard do you think it's going to be to beat the Williams sisters?
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: You know what, I'm not even thinking about them or that. I'm just
taking it one match at a time for me. We'll see what happens, if I get far enough and they
get far enough, and I play one of them, that's when I'm going to start thinking about it.  
 
Q. At this stage of your career, what do you consider a good showing here? Do you still
have thoughts of winning it?
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: No, of course I have thoughts of winning it. I mean, that would be
the ultimate for me. I mean, that is my goal, of course. You know, I'm not just going to
be satisfied with winning a couple rounds. You know, I think I have a good chance, so...
Of course, it's going to make my own expectations a little higher.  
 
Q. The crowds have always embraced you here. That has to make it a special feeling for
you, as well. 
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah. It's great. You know, just even today, it was the first round,
early, there was quite a lot of people there, you know, supporting me. It really helps a
lot.  
 
Q. Is there any difference this year for you with your father as your coach, any mental
difference, things you're doing different at this Open compared to last year?
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: No, there's really no difference. I think maybe up to the last year
of the US Open, I didn't have as many matches and, you know, as many results as I have
this year already coming into this US Open. I think that's just a little bit, you know, to
my advantage that, you know, already I know what it's like to just get to like the semis
of a Grand Slam, having a good year in Australia, just beating some of the top players. So
that is a little bit of an advantage there. As far as mental, I mean, I'm not really
looking at it any different way or thinking any different way. I think my tennis has
improved also since last year's US Open.  
 
Q. Do you contribute that to coaching?
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Part of it. But part of it is just myself, just playing a lot of
tournaments, a lot of matches, kind of getting that edge back.  
 
Q. Last year some people were surprised when they saw you, "Wow, Jennifer Capriati
is back," this year, it's not like that. People are used to seeing you back, doing
well. Do you feel a difference in the way that people perceive you?
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah, I definitely feel that. I think I've just established my
presence for good, you know, hopefully. People still say, "Glad to have you
back." You know, it's not so much if I'm going to stay, you know, what am I going to
do. It's just, I'm here. Yeah, I came back, seeded this year. I mean, it's definitely
different, yeah. I like it better like this.  
 
Q. What does that seeding mean to you?
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: It means a lot. It just shows me the accomplishments that I've done,
how I've improved on my tennis, you know, to get seeded. Must be doing something good,
right (laughter)?  
 
Q. Is there a different buzz here compared to other Grand Slams? Does that get to you?
Does it kind of charge you up?
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I think each one is special in their own way, unique. I mean, I love
every Grand Slam. Here, I mean, maybe it's, yeah, a little bit more exciting being at this
one, just because there's, I think, so many more people; a lot of hype when it comes down
to the US Open and, of course, New York, staying in the city. It's not like any other
place, so...  
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT