WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2004
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Your first serve today, you got so many in with such consistency.  Can you get that many in against Serena and yet pump up the speed a little bit more to deal with her service return?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think I can.  I'm going to try, and it's not like I haven't done it before.  You know, things like that I think are just going to become more automatic for me. 

Q.  How did you turn the tide in this series?  I think she'd beaten you. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  With Serena? 

Q.  Yes. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  You know, we just kind of have been really close every time, you know.  And I guess just the last couple times, you know, took advantage maybe of her not playing that much tennis, and maybe not playing as well, me being more focused.  You know, just executing a game plan a little bit better, and probably just believing in myself a little bit more. 

Q.  Was there something that she had - people talk about an aura or mystique - that's been shattered for you?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  You know, I really -- it's just about me, you know, playing the ball out there.  It's never really been about the person.  It's just, you know, my tennis against the other person's tennis.  So I never really -- that kind of stuff with the aura and mystique and personality, I mean, I just never -- never really plays a part.

Q.  In Paris you said your strategy against Serena was to basically run a lot of balls down and let her make her mistakes.  What's going to be your game plan going in on grass? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, obviously I'm not going to like say my game plan.  But, you know, grass is a completely different surface.  Obviously, on clay you have a little bit more time.  So I think it's just a matter of really who gets the initiative first and really who's more aggressive first and takes control of the point, you know. Serving and returning will be a huge factor. 

Q.  Serena was in earlier, and she was dispelling the notion that there was ever any friction between the two of you, saying that was just some broadcaster's fantasy, that there never really has been any friction between you, and in fact the two of you have a great deal of high respect for each other.  Can you comment about that?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I think that's true.  I mean, obviously, you know, off the court, away from the court, everyone has their own lives, you know.  Just when we come to the same work environment, there's really -- we're seeing each other all the time, so there's really no need to be hostile or, you know, have animosity towards each other.  I mean, you know, it's just -- I think she respects my game, I respect her game, and that's basically it.  And as far as personality, I mean, we're not like the best of friends, but we're not like enemies either.  I mean, I get along with everybody. 

Q.  In terms of temperament and the way you play, could you have been a third Williams sister? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I don't know.  I guess that's your call.  I don't know.  You tell me. 

Q.  Yeah, maybe. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Okay. 

Q.  In today's match, what were you happy about with your game?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I think I really -- first, I served well and returned well enough, just solid.  I just played solid.  You know, I just tried to keep the balls long, deep.  And then also I did mix it up where she's having trouble with coming in and hitting, playing short balls.  But, you know, she's really good side to side.  And then, you know, I just -- I think I just hung in there pretty good and did everything just a little bit better and really was just more solid out there.  And maybe she was getting a little bit tired.  I mean, I was getting tired, too, because there was long rallies.  Kind of not used to having those rallies at this tournament.  Being a little bit hot out there, too. 

Q.  Sport is always looking for new faces.  Of course, so much has been written about the young Russian girls coming up.  Is it sort of reassuring you and Lindsay are still around, you've been here for years, still playing well?  Does it make you feel good? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, of course.  I mean, just for myself really, not for anything else.  You know, it's weird to me because it doesn't seem that long ago where I was just like the young one coming up.  So really, I mean, I guess I'm a lot older, but I don't feel that way.  I mean, it's only normal, I mean, because I hope there is going to be a lot of good talent and good players by the time I stop, because it's just good for the game. 

Q.  Do you think you and Serena are the best rivalry in tennis right now?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, we certainly played each other more than I think anybody else, you know.  And we always end up in the same part of the draw, whatever, always end up playing each other and having good matches.  So, I mean, there's a lot of different ones.  But maybe the most that people know of, I guess. 

Q.  In a game like in the first set there with all -- you had all of those breakpoints, one after another after another.  Is it almost as much of a mental challenge, not getting frustrated, "Gee, there's another lost opportunity," staying focused in the game like that? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I think just like if it was reversed where I had all breakpoints against me all the time, I think mentally it weighs on you.  So it's a good thing.  You've got to remember that eventually, you know, you're going to break and it's going to get in their head that they have to work so hard to basically hold service.  So, you know, it's just -- yeah, it's a fine line between getting to that point and not, you know, doing too much, but not doing enough, you know, to get that break.  Because you don't want to lose it, but then you don't want to just kind of play nonchalant.  So really just try not to think about it being breakpoints, just treat each point the same way. 

Q.  What sets Serena apart?  When you think of Serena's game, what do you think sets her apart from other players and what's most impressive to you?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I mean, obviously she has a good serve, great serve, one of the best and hardest in the women's game.  You know, and she hits the ball big off both sides - probably harder than most.  But just, you know, her physical presence out there.  You know, she's, you know, not going to -- you know, she's a tremendous athlete, so...

Q.  What are the biggest similarities and differences between your respective games, the way you play, how you execute? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I guess we just both have that aggressive style, you know. We just basically try to dictate points the same way, every opportunity we see, kind of just know that we have maybe that little bit extra that the other girls don't have to get that extra umpf basically on the shots.  You know, just good athleticism.

Q.  Was there ever a need to clear the air between you and Serena just because some comments may have been taken out of context or whatever?  Was there ever a point where y'all kind of got together away from the lights and just said, "Hey, I don't know what you've heard"? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No.  I mean, I think you just realize how stupid it is, how stupid it sounds.  Even if you like -- I'm not saying I've never said anything stupid - for sure I have - so it's like you realize it, and that's what, you know, you learn.  You learn from it.  Be like, that doesn't sound good.  Don't say anything, it's not worth it.  Really, it's just a game.  I mean, just leave it at that and just make sure you always show class out there. 

Q.  If there's a common denominator in the matches that you and Serena have played, there's a lot of winners, a lot of unforced errors because both of you are going to get about as close to the line as you can.  Have you ever gone into one of these wars with Serena and said, "I'd like to put a little more finesse into the game this time," and yet found, "What the heck, let's go back to what we've done for the last 10 or 11 matches," and it turns out to be the same way, just hitting the heck out of the ball every shot? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I can't like change my game, you know.  I mean that's my game and that's her game, and usually we're just feeding off each other like that.  But I think, you know, that's probably even the last few times, that's what's worked, is maybe I have changed it up a little bit.  You know, it's difficult, because if you're not used to playing that way, it's just very -- it's hard to just all of a sudden start kind of trying to play finesse, you know, when you're not really practicing doing that.  And then if you don't hit it the right way, then, you know, she usually puts you away.  Boom, it's a winner, or, you know, just hits a better shot.  So it's hard because, uhm, if it's not good enough, then, you know, you'll be punished for it. 

Q.  Can you talk about Gullikson's sort of approach?  I know it's early that you've been working together.  Can you describe his approach to coaching and how you guys are working together? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  You know, there's not much that he says.  I mean, basically he's just a real positive guy and real laid back, just keeps it relaxed.  You know, just basically when he's out there with me, just, you know, making sure that everything is in check, you know, basically what I'm doing.  And there's not a lot, you know, of different things that he's telling me, just anything major.  On the grass, you know, there's different strategies to play, for sure. 

Q.  What was behind the decision not to work with Heinz anymore? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, that was just kind of scheduling and, you know, him being in Europe, me being in the States.  I mean, it was just difficult.  Him having his family and all that.  So I just don't think it would have worked out. 

Q.  Serena put on a record serve today for Wimbledon, 126 miles an hour.  Is that the sort of statistic that interests you or does it just interest us?  Does it make any difference to you whether she does the record serve or is it a relevant statistic to you?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No.  I mean, it really doesn't matter.  Maybe the radar's off, I don't know (smiling). 

Q.  It seemed like you and Serena had a warm moment at the net at the French after the match.  Is that fair to say?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  Yeah.  I mean, it's like -- we're not like enemies and we're not like have this -- you know, people would love to think that.  But I'm not saying we're the best friends either and we're going to go and hang out after.  You know, it's just a mutual respect.  That's all. 

Q.  Was it a good match or was there more to it than that?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Just a good match thing.  It's just because we've played each other so many times, it's like, "You know, we're we go again."  We've walked up to each other at the net and shook hands like so many times.  So it's like, "Okay, I won this one." 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT