WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2000
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR: Jennifer Capriati, Ladies and Gentlemen. Could I have the first question,
please. 

Q. What was the problem with the leg?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: It wasn't the leg; it was more of the groin. But I haven't seen the
trainer again for a real evaluation, so I can't really tell you anything about it because
I don't know what it is. 

Q. Does it hurt?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Well, yeah, of course it hurts. But, you know, we deal with these
pains all the time. But I don't think it's anything like that serious - hopefully not.

Q. Coming off Roland Garros, this must feel like a pretty good win, to beat someone
like Dominique in the first round. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah, it feels great. You know, after the French, I played a few
warm-up tournaments on the grass, so I played two. I got some matches, won some matches
there. Already my confidence was getting back a little bit. You know, it showed today. I
got confidence from those last two tournaments. Also I'm feeling better about my game and
everything, my level of fitness.

Q. What do you think the key to the victory was today?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I think I just stayed really focused the whole match. You know, I
didn't make too many errors. I mean, I served well and returned well. It wasn't like I
gave too many free points there. You know, I think I just was a little bit tougher maybe
mentally today. You know, basically, I mean, all my shots I felt, you know, pretty on.

Q. When you did so well at the Australian, you credited Harold a lot, with helping you
out. How do you feel about him now? Are things okay with you two? You had a split as far
as a coach/player thing. How did that come about?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Well, that happens. I mean, just because we got together and had
that relationship, it doesn't -- it's not always going to last forever, be a forever
thing. Just one of those things that happened. We didn't see things, you know, on the same
terms in some areas. But other than that, you know, everything's fine, my relationship
with him, but I'm going to move on and he's going to move on also. 

Q. Did you get a lot out of that relationship while it was going on, though?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah, I did. You know, he helped me a lot with just getting my focus
and my confidence back, at the time when I really needed it. You know, he helped me to see
a lot of things about my game and everything. You know, I definitely got a lot out of it. 

Q. Have you had any trouble at all keeping it, not having somebody in your ear all the
time pushing you? Have you had to self-train yourself a little bit?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: A little bit of self-train. I think I just needed, you know, someone
to just kind of get me over that hump that I was kind of stuck at. You know, now I think
I've definitely had enough experience, you know, playing this game, playing on the tour.
Hopefully I'm, you know, strong-willed enough that I don't need somebody there all the
time. You know, I'm not like a little baby here. I'll just have to keep in mind, you know,
the things that, you know, I learned with him, you know, just carry it on. 

Q. Is your dad coaching you now or is he just with you?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: No, I've given him that title now.

Q. You have?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah.

Q. Officially he's coach again?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah (laughter).

Q. How is that working out?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: So far it's good. It's great, you know. Before it was just kind of
he was my dad, there kind of doing everything. But now, you know, just on the court and
stuff, I just let him, you know, say whatever, as any coach. I'm not paying him as my
coach, but it's fine (laughter). So far it's good. I mean, I've done well the last couple
weeks. Today I was really happy with my game. I'm sure he'll be happy with it, too. 

Q. Were you the one that went to him? Did you say, "Dad, I need you to come coach
me now"? Did he approach you?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: It was kind of both. It was kind of a mutual thing. It kind of
happened after the French. It was just like, "Forget this, I'm just going to have
somebody. I need somebody as my coach." I think my dad is the perfect person for
right now.

Q. What is his greatest strength as a coach?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: It's just that he's known my game ever since -- I mean, he started
me playing tennis. Really just he knows, I guess, the way to tell me things that I would
just understand them so I presume them in my game or just do it. He just can say the
little things here and there the simple way he knows that would make me really understand
it.

Q. Could you just point to one example of that?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: There's just many examples. I mean, I don't really want to say
because that's giving away a little of the coaching, you know. You know, there's many
things here and there. 

Q. Are you guys able to separate the father/daughter from the coach/pupil relationship,
or is that a day-to-day thing?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: No, I think he's getting better at it, especially now that I'm
older. It's going to be tough always I think to get a complete separation. I don't want
that anyways. I mean, it's fine for him, you know, to be my coach and act as my father,
too. It's just getting the balance there is the key. You know, I think we've got the right
balance. Now we're learning, too. Each day is a learning process. It helps that I'm older
and I kind of got my own things going. I have my boyfriend here. That makes it a little
bit easier.

Q. Does he coach you too?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Who, my boyfriend? 

Q. Yeah. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Actually, yeah, he did say one thing that really helped me that I
listened to. I noticed a difference.

Q. What was that?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Just something little, like that on my serve, he just said. Ever
since then I feel more comfortable.

Q. Something in your motion?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah, yeah. But I'm not going to say it (laughter).

Q. You're going to be hitting as hard as him pretty soon?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: That I don't know. Unless I take some steroids, I don't know. 

Q. Is it particularly alarming for you this recent downturn you've had since Miami
because of the way your career had the drop earlier?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I'm sorry? 

Q. Is this downturn that you've had since the Ericsson particularly alarming for you
because of the way your career went skyrocketing up at the beginning, then took a
downturn?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: No. You know, it really wasn't that much of a downturn anyways. I
got injured, then I had a few bad losses. I'm not going to let that bring me down. I'll
just bounce back from it. You know, that's one of the things I learned, how to come back
from feeling down or not so confident. I've learned that. Take it not so serious, you
know, that I can always get it back, you know.

Q. Does the contentment, like you seem to be in your personal life, does it make you
hungry or less hungry to win? If you feel so good off the court, does everything matter
about being on the court?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: No. Actually, it's a good thing, though, you know, because it's like
I won't take it as serious in a way that I either get more nervous or really get, you
know, depressed from losses, you know, get that way so it affects me for my next match or
my next tournament. It's good having the support in my personal life off the court. That,
you know, helps it -- you know, helps me cope with, you know, the tennis part more.

Q. You played Lisa Raymond a couple weeks ago in Birmingham on the grass. What about
her game makes her tough on this surface?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I mean, there's a few things. First, you know, she has a good serve,
a good serve-and-volley game also. She has a pretty severe slice backhand that's one of
the toughest shots to handle on grass. I mean, serve-and-volleying also, I think she mixes
that well. She also has a good baseline game.

Q. What's the one thing that you like the best about England?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: The best about England? Hmm? The people have always been very nice
to me. They've always been supportive of me, been my fans. I have to say the people. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT