TMS - FORO ITALICO
May 15, 2000
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Tough one, Jennifer, I'm sure. The serve seemed to be the key in many ways. What was
happening out there? 
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Well, it's been a while since I played a match so, you know, maybe I
just didn't feel as comfortable out there. You know, actually, it wasn't that bad, you
know. I was actually serving more double-faults before. I mean, I don't think that was the
key. The most important thing, I mean, she played really well. I have to give her a lot of
credit. She played really well. 
 
Q. Sorry for the ignorance, but why has it been such a while since you've played? Have
you been injured?
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah, I was injured since Miami and I had to skip Hilton Head, so I
hadn't played there for a couple of weeks. So I just started training, like about, I don't
know, a few weeks ago and not, you know, until recent like training hard. And so -- but I
mean I felt fine out there anyways, and physically I felt fine. There was no problems
there. 
 
Q. Jennifer, I was here for your debut ten years ago, you played here in '90. So what
memory do you have of this first tournament you played in Rome?
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Well, just coming here, and of course my dad's Italian so it was a
big deal to come and, you know, the first time I'd been here. And so, you know, just
everything, playing on center court, and I think I lost to Sabatini. 
 
Q. Yes, correct.
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah, so, I mean it was very exciting playing, I think a night
match, full crowd. So... You know, that's what I remember. 
 
Q. You were 14 at that time. Don't you think perhaps that it was too early? I don't
know, do you think that your career would have changed if you would have waited a little
bit more to get into the jungle?
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I mean, I think it's, you know, not really important to discuss, you
know, that kind of thing anymore. 
 
Q. No, no, no, not personal. I mean tennis. Just tennis.
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah. No, because I think I've come back. I mean who knows, you
know, what could have happened, where my career could have gone. I don't know, and I just
don't see any point to go back and think about it.  
 
Q. Jennifer, you and Harold did such good things together. Why the change now, and how
do you feel about that?
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Well, I needed a full-time coach, somebody who was going to be there
all the time, and that's what I wanted. And obviously, I mean, he can't really do that,
you know, unless I move down to where he is or he moves up to where I am. And, you know,
we just decided to part just because of that. And, you know, to possibly look for somebody
who could always be with me all the time because that's what I need. 
 
Q. How do you feel about it, just the fact that it happened?
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I mean it's fine. We parted on good terms. Everything's fine. You
know, I mean I still am confident about my tennis, about my game, just keep going on. 
 
Q. What is the name of the new coach, what was the injuries that you had in Miami, and
how do you feel, your form, physically right now?
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Well, no new coach. Just, I mean, my father's here with me and a few
people from Saddle Brook are with me. But I haven't hired, like, another coach, you know,
full-time coach. And I guess I had tendinitis in my Achilles. I mean now I've been able,
the last couple weeks, you know, to train normal. It's just sore more than anything, but
it's fine. I mean, I feel in good shape and still, you know, want to be in better shape.
So... You know. It's just the first tournament of the season so far, so it's all right. 
 
Q. Is Harold going to stay involved at all as a counselor in any way or helping you
out?
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: No, I don't know about that. Maybe. We haven't, like, discussed that
or anything. I don't know about that. 
 
Q. Are you worried that this leaves you a bit short of match practice going into Roland
Garros?
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Well, I still have a tournament next week, so, I mean at least -- I
mean, I don't know what I'm going to do right now. But at least I'm, you know, where other
players are and I can still get practice with other girls. But at least I have that
tournament next week. 
 
Q. Every athlete has his own perfect weight. Are you on your weight, or are you one
kilo more, one kilo less?
Q. Speak for yourself. (Laughter.)
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: You know, I don't measure my weight. (Laughing.) I don't know. I
just go by how I feel. Yeah, you know, there's, like I said, I think I have to work more
on my shape and physical because I haven't been able to train full. So I'm not there at
that point of being perfect, you know. 
 
Q. This is a pretty important choice to pick a coach at this stage in your career, I
would think. Are you going to make it soon, are you going to take your time, what kind of
person are you looking for when you pick somebody else?
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I mean, right now I think it's going to be difficult, I mean, I just
have to see who's out there, who's available. But right now, I mean, I think I have a
pretty good team, you know, for these upcoming tournaments or until I find somebody. And,
you know, it's just you want to wait until you find the right person, someone that you
click with and, you know, you're going to trust your game with and whatever. So, I mean,
that's the kind of person that I want, someone that I'm going to trust and, you know, is
going to be very knowledgeable and, you know, they're hard to come by. I mean especially
for me; I want somebody full, full-time. So that's hard to find. 
 
Q. What's your reservations still playing these tournaments? What are the sacrifices?
Do you like doing other tournaments? How do you feel about doing Rome tournaments?
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah, I still love to travel. You know, I've made a commitment to
playing because, you know, it's something that I really love to do and, you know, right
now at this point in my life this, you know, is what I just want to devote a lot of my
life to. Not everything, I still have a life off the court. But, you know, it can be a
very fun job, very easy, and, you know, and of course it's disappointing having losses
here and there, but you have to learn to take the bad along with the good. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT