TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 28, 2000
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







WTA: Questions for Jennifer. 

Q. How tough was that coming right back out after such a big match?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: It was tough. You know, when I just got out there, that's when I
kind of felt the fatigue. I mean, I knew I was tired today, but I thought I'd be okay. I
mean, I started out well in the match, but just she played -- I think she was really on
today. You know, she wasn't missing very much. You know, with the wind swirling around,
it's just tough. 

Q. Fatigue, you think may be more mental than physical? Maybe a little of both?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: A little bit of both. I mean, I really -- it was more my mind
telling my body to, "Come on, move." That just wasn't happening as well as I'd
like it to be, how it was just yesterday and in the previous matches I've played. 

Q. Do you think the fatigue took a toll on your serves and some of the unforced errors
you had?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I think definitely it had, you know, a lot to do with it, or some to
do with it at least, with the wind and everything. It was just a combination of
everything. You know, I felt myself maybe coming back there in the second, but I just
couldn't get any breaks there. Especially with line calls, I thought I was getting really
hooked a lot. You know, just those days happen. 

Q. Are you cognizant when you're out there playing like yesterday with the crowd behind
you? Today they were subdued, but it's so obvious that people are so behind you. Is that
something you're always aware of? It's got to feel pretty good. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah, it does. I mean, sometimes I feel like they want me to win so
bad, I don't know, if I'm not playing as well or not hitting winners on every shot, you
know, it's like, you know, letting them down or something. 

Q. In some way it could occasionally bug you a bit because you start worrying about it.


JENNIFER CAPRIATI: A little bit. I start to feel a little pressure. But, I mean, it's
still good. I mean, I still like it. You know, I think they could tell today that it maybe
wasn't going to happen. You know, it's just one of those days. But, I mean, I always love
the support from the crowd.

Q. How much did frustration set in? A lot of times, you'd miss a serve and just slam a
ball because you missed it. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Well, it's frustrating, especially when you're tired. The more tired
you are, the less tolerant you are of things. You know, just a combination of everything.
But, you know, I still held, tried to fight, tried to stay in there, tried to be tough
still because you never know what can happen, you know, just do the best that you can do. 

Q. A lot has been said about the way you're playing right now. Your effort, Harold has
been helping you. How much has Martina's moving right down the road, now you're out there
and able to hit with her, a motivational thing, that's added a little to you?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I'd have to say not really. 

Q. Not really?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I don't hit with her all that much. You know, after Australia, I
didn't hit with her at all. Really, I'm just there doing my thing and she's doing her
thing. That's it. You know, I get motivated in other ways. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT