TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 27, 2000
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







WTA: Questions for Jennifer.

Q. Was it strategic to throw her off to hit the first serve against the fence?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I wish I could say that, but no (laughter).

Q. Have you ever done that before?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Never. I've never done that. I think that was like the wind, the
wind shot there. That was kind of cool, though (laughter). 

Q. How big a win is this for you?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Oh, it's unbelievable. I mean, it is the first time I've beaten, I
mean, a player ranked so high in a tournament. So I'm just very excited because I think I
played really well, and of course you have to play well to beat someone like her. You
know, I'm just very happy because it shows I've really come a long way, you know, all the
hard work has paid off in my fitness, because I think I kept up with her pretty good.

Q. This may be your biggest win in Florida since the first tournament years ago down
here.

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: The biggest? 

Q. Biggest single win since long ago. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I wouldn't say that. 

Q. Just here in this state, in this tournament. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Well, I mean, I remember beating Monica, you know, way back to get
to the semis. One of the biggest. I would say next to that one. They're pretty equal.

Q. Excluding Florida, what was your last win of this stature?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Well, I mean, if you can count Hong Kong, but that's not -- it was
an exhibition. I mean, I beat Martina there. No, I guess for a long time, this is my
biggest win, yeah.

Q. Early on in your career, there were hundreds of us reporters running around. You
must have been really sick of us, didn't want to see another one of us. Now quite a few of
us here. Does that somehow give you a little bit of pleasure that so many of us are
interested in your story?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I think for a while everyone's been interested in my story, whether
I'm good, bad, whatever. You know, it's fine. I'm used to it. I'm used to seeing you guys.
I don't think really it's changed much. Yeah, it goes to show I must have done something
really good or really bad, I don't know (laughter).

Q. Does this feel like winning the tournament today or do you know there's more work to
do?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I know there's more work to do. It's definitely a big win. I'm going
to enjoy it, you know, for today, for a little while, then just, you know, forget about it
and go to the next one. I play tomorrow already.

Q. Why do you think you won this match?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Well, I think, you know, I played really tough. I played aggressive.
I hit big shots. But I didn't overhit, you know, which sometimes I could have a tendency
to do. You know, I think that's the way I have to hit to beat someone like Serena. So I
played within myself, and also I didn't underhit either. I mean, I was still going for my
shots and was aggressive even in the tight moments. You know, I was just able to move
well. I made some good gets. You know, maybe that threw her off a little bit. You know,
even though I made, you know, my double-faults, I still served well and I came up with big
serves. I think mentally I stayed tough.

Q. You played Venus here at night a few years ago. Are you playing exactly the same
game now or do you feel like it's a whole different look?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I think it's a whole different look. I mean, now I can say that, you
know, I've had definitely more matches, just more match experience - even just this year,
the last couple years. Now I feel back to my old self as far as just, you know, being
mentally tough out there. You know, maybe just that pressure situation. You know, when I
first came back, I maybe not would have been as tough and mmaybe would have broken down.
You know, I was able to stay in there, stay positive, and just keep fighting. And that
didn't happen against Venus in the first match.

Q. You served for it at 5-1, you have a match point, you lose it. You serve again for
the match, you double-fault twice, three breakpoints against you. Obviously, you stayed
mentally tough. You won, but how? How do you counteract that when you're out there, that
discouragement?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I mean, I just try to get back to playing how I was playing to get
up to 5-1, I mean, in my mind know that I've been winning the whole time, so why at this
point do I have to let the momentum change. I just kept going for it. Really I don't know.
Some of those things you just can't explain. You know, you just don't know. It's something
supernatural, I don't know, it seems like. 

Q. How did you turn it around from the second set to the third set? What was
difference?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I had a little bit of a letdown in the second, as far as energy-wise
I think also. You know, she played better. So I think it was important for me to get the
first game at least, you know, to kind of break that momentum that she had. So that was
good that, you know, I won the first game, then to get the break right away. You know, I
just felt like I started playing again like I did in the first set. You know, I think I
played really well in the first set, then I think she got just a little nervous, a little
tentative on some shots, and that helped, some free points there. So I just, you know, got
on a roll there. 

Q. Can you tell us what happened on the volley that she made that apparently was out?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: But the lady didn't call it. She didn't call it because the head
chair umpire had stopped play because I had stopped play because I thought it was let. I
had seen something out of the corner of my eye. I thought it was something blowing on the
court again. It turned out that it just was fuzz from the ball. Obviously it was a lot if
I saw it. I mean, it was something that distracted me. She heard me. No one else heard me.
Serena didn't even hear me. That's what happened, so I lost the point for that because I
had stopped play for nothing.

Q. Can you evaluate yourself to the last time you were playing at a high level? Can you
give us a thumbnail as to how you're different as a player both mentally and technically?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Different back from when I was a top player? 

Q. Yes, 1993. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Well, I think I'm getting pretty close to being that level, top
level, and maybe even just better now. I feel physically stronger. I mean, I feel myself
hitting shots that I could have never hit before. I think that's just strength-wise. I
mean, the game is different now. I mean, there's a lot more power. You know, she hit a
118-mile-an-hour serve. You didn't see those serves back then. It's different. I think
I've just -- definitely just gotten better and stronger than when I was in '92, '93, you
know, so it's almost like I'm better now.

Q. Do you think you're smarter now?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: And smarter, yeah, definitely smarter. You know, I think I'm able to
change my game if it needs to be changed, just to adapt to the way my opponent is. If I
need to, you know, a change strategy-wise. Just, you know, I've added a little more
variety in my game, too. I can come to the net, you know.

Q. How has Harold helped you in that aspect of the game?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Well, he's just helped me believe that I can do it. I mean, I knew
that I could do that. But we just worked on it. I mean, he just told me that, you know, I
can do those shots and I can come to the net, I have great volleys, and I should, you
know, mix that in my game. So we just worked on it and he gave me confidence on that, you
know.

Q. Were you glad to hear that foot fault call?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah, I was (laughter). I mean, I had been, you know, getting some
bad calls, I thought. So it was good that I got something to go my way, at least.

Q. Is that a personal best record for distance on a serve, the one you hit into the
stands in the third set?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I think so.

Q. A hundred feet anyway. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I don't know. Somebody caught it, whatever. 

Q. Do you also feel lucky? That last game, she had a breakpoint, you missed the first
serve, she broke her string, came a first serve again, you won the point immediately. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: You know, that was definitely to my advantage, too. I think it just
evens out both ways.

Q. Getting back to the point where the you were said you called a time-out for no
reason. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: The let. 

Q. Where were you at mentally? Seems like you were pretty upset. How did you regroup?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: No, I was fine. I mean, I saw something, then I called the let. I
saw what it was. I knew probably for that it wasn't going to go, I was going to lose the
point. 

Q. But she hit the ball out. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah, and then I saw that, too. So I thought maybe nobody would hear
me, but I guess she did hear me. Serena didn't hear me, I know that.

Q. In all your years playing, have you ever experienced as whacky a point as that?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: No, never.

Q. But then the crowd was booing. Seemed like they were really behind you. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Because they thought I think it was the call, because it was so
obvious that it was out. I don't think they knew what was going on. 

Q. A little ankle problem or just precautionary (referring to iced ankle)?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Just precaution. I'm really leaking right now (laughter). 

Q. Can you win the tournament?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I think I have a good chance to win it. You know, just take it one
at a time. I definitely believe in myself that I can win it. You know, I'll just take it
one at a time. 

Q. At one point during the match, the chair cautioned the crowd about cell phones. Are
they ever a distraction to you out on the court?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I think sometimes they definitely are, you know, for both players,
for each player. I don't know, there's so many of them now, you just kind of get used to
it. You're going to hear those rings, whatever. You know, when you're winning and it's
going good, you don't hear them as much. When you're losing, I mean, they're definitely
much louder.

Q. Should they be banned from the stands?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I never thought about that. Yeah, or at least make sure they're off
or something. I don't think that could be possible. How would they ban them? That would be
cool, though, yeah.

Q. Aside from banning cell phones at tennis matches, if you could get any wish in the
game, if you could change a rule or improve a stroke, win a tournament, what wish would
you want for yourself in tennis?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Well, I mean, right now everything is just going pretty good, seems
pretty good right now. Just wish that you were able to have more of a say in the line
calls and stuff, disputing those. Wish you could win one of those arguments one time.
That's pretty tough. 

Q. What about your new relationship, does that give you any extra power for your game,
too?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Which new relationship? 

Q. The young guy from Belgium. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah, I'm just very happy. That's all I'm going to say about that. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT