TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 25, 2000
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Another convincing win.  Just talk about how comfortable you feel about your game at this point. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah, I feel pretty comfortable.  I think my game feels solid, and I feel confident.  You know, I think in these matches, you know, it's important to just try not to lose focus, you know, if they're going my way to still like not lose my concentration and just stay focused.  And, you know, work on a lot of things that I think will be important, you know, in the next matches, especially if I play some other top players.  So...


Q.  Physically you've talked about you're in better shape this year.  How about mentally and emotionally? Do you think you're better prepared if something goes wrong in a match?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah.  I think definitely, and especially, I mean, coming off of Australia, that win there.  I mean, I'm definitely more confident and mentally tough.  You know, I just feel like I got maybe a little more of an edge there. But I mean, I think that's something that's improved even before that, you know, even before Australia.  So, you know, it's just when I'm in shape, you know it goes hand-in-hand.  So, it all just kind of ties together there. 


Q.  Having skipped Indian Wells, that probably gave you some time to get some good practice in.  Are you the kind of player that feels like maybe you benefit just as much from the added practice time as opposed to getting a lot of matches under your belt?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah, I mean just both.  I think just for playing already for so long, I just pretty much know what I like.  And what feels good to me and what feels more comfortable.  So I, you know, found that balance. You know, just with the practice and getting the rest and, you know, not avoiding that time change and everything.  So, you know, I think I do need equal time, though, on matches so, you know, you can only practice for so long before you start getting really eager to get out there and play matches.


Q.  You had to go kind of boom, boom here in a couple of matches in whatever it was, less than 24 hours.  Didn't seem to bother you at all here?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: No, I've really been here since Monday, Sunday or Monday, so that's kind of a long time.  That's like five days there without playing a match.  So I'm just ready to play.  Even if I have to play tomorrow again, I'll be ready to play. 


Q.  After the match, I saw you give out some racquets.  Is that part of a promotion or just a random thing?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Actually, they're just old racquets that I'm not going to really have any use for anymore.  So, you know, I thought what better way to get rid of them than just give them away to some kids or whoever wants them.


Q.  Can you talk about just your relationship with the fans over the years? It seems like you always had a lot of support regardless of where you've been in your career. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah.  And I mean, I've always felt that.  Now, I mean, I'm really feeling a lot of support but it's mostly like a genuine happiness that I'm feeling from fans and just that they're happy for me that, you know, that I won.  You know, they've just been behind me, you know, regardless of what's happened.  And, you know, it's just, you know, I mean that's  -- that really means a lot to me, so...


Q.  Kind of a weird one, you were 14 in that Newsweek cover with the puppy.  Do you still have that dog?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah. 


Q.  Is that  -- what's the dog's name?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Bianca.  Yeah, she's still alive.  She's here. 


Q.  Is that the dog that was waiting for you at the airport when you got back from Australia? Did your mom have the dog at the time?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah, but I have other dogs, too.  So, yeah.  So all of them. I just have two dogs, big dogs, yeah.  She lives with my mom mostly, yeah, Bianca. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT