TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 25, 2000
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







WTA: Questions for Jennifer. 

Q. You're up 4-1, what happened? She played better? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Well, after about a 20-minute break, you know, it was kind of
difficult to just not lose my concentration there a little bit. I guess that's just what
happened. She came back and raised her game up, her level. That kind of like threw me off.
I just kind of lost my groove there. I was able to get it back, get that set, then I just
kind of picked up my game and got on a roll there. 

Q. What was the break? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: She called the trainer just in the middle of the game, the first
point of my serve. I'm sitting there waiting for the trainer to come out about five
minutes. The trainer gets there, and it's another evaluation. It was all that kind of
stuff.

Q. What were they working on?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: It was her groin, I guess.

Q. Do you feel good about this tournament? Obviously you played good early in the year,
you had a rough time in Indian Wells. How is your form coming in here?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I feel good. I feel like I'm playing really well. Physically, you
know, I wasn't that good in Indian Wells. I didn't feel I was like in shape as in the
beginning; maybe lost a little bit there. Gotten sick a few times. Now I'm back working
with my trainer again, so I feel a little bit better physically. I think that has a lot to
do with my game. I feel confident and eager to play here.

Q. Harold still with you?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Uh-huh.

Q. It's been a year since you started working with him?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Uh-huh.

Q. How do you feel after a year about your progress?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I think I've come a long way since a year ago. I mean, I was almost
going to have to qualify for this tournament a year ago. I think I've made a lot of steps
to just get to where I am now, made a lot of improvements. I feel very good.

Q. Do you owe some of that to Harold?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah. I mean, of course it's a team. He's helped me with different
areas of my game. It's a team effort.

Q. Is Xavier Malisse part of that team now, having him around for support?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah, but of course I just want to talk about tennis, no personal
stuff. 

Q. Not even, were you at his match earlier today?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: No. 

Q. Why do you think there's so much interest in kind of the personal off-court lives of
some of the top players on the Women's Tour? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Because it makes the news, I guess, or makes the story. That's what
people want to read, it seems like. It's more interesting to write about the romances
than, you know, who's hitting their forehand great or something. I don't know. 

Q. Does it seem like there's more of those kind of stories on the tour now than when
you were first coming up, more personality?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Maybe a little bit because there's just so many like different kinds
of different personalities now than when I was playing. I mean, there wasn't like so much
hype with some of the different players. Some of the other players have quite a bit of
charisma, attraction there. It's maybe because of that a little bit, you know. Asking for
it more. I don't know.

Q. Speaking of the hype, when you look at that, do you think that's good for the game
or maybe there's too much of it at times?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I think personally it's too much. It would be nice to have it just
stick to the sport, the actual sport and what's going on, the game, not personal. It's
great when it's all good stories, but it's not so great when it's negative, you know, just
negative stories. If it was always good then, yeah, why not? Then it can turn into bad,
kind of hurt the person they're talking about, so. It's not maybe all factual, too, so. 

Q. Too much rumor?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah. I mean, I think there's a lot written that may be not a
hundred percent true. How would they know, you know, what's true or what's not? The people
really get the wrong idea and think one thing when it's really something else. 

Q. You might have a match down the road with Serena. Do you feel like you could stay
with anyone at this point?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah, I do feel confident. I'm happy to get this match out of the
way, get through it. Then also I play Chanda probably tomorrow. I think with each match,
hopefully I'll just get better and better as far as, you know, just my strokes and my
movement. If I come against Serena, hopefully I'll be prepared and ready, you know, feel
grooved in the tournament. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT