TMS - INDIAN WELLS, WOMEN
March 11, 2000
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







WTA: Questions for Jennifer. 

Q. What part of your game did you struggle with most?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Today? 

Q. Yes. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Well, I think kind of all around, my game, I just didn't feel the
ball as well. I guess I hit quite a lot of double-faults. You know, I didn't think my
return was that good today. I mean, just kind of everything.

Q. General?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: General.

Q. Did the abdominal injury affect you at all?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: No. 

Q. The second set, you're down 5-1, then you had a marathon game there. How much did
that take out of you when you lost that game?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: That really didn't do much. No, I was fine. I mean, just the whole
-- I mean, the whole time out there, it was pretty hot anyways. But we had a few long
games there. 

Q. Did it feel good to have the crowd behind you out there?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah, it was good. I mean, I wish I would have won so I could see
them a little more. But next time.

Q. Did she beat you today, or did you beat yourself?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Oh, I think she definitely beat me today. I mean, I think she played
very well. I mean, that's the best I've seen her play. You know, I really didn't play that
bad. I mean, she was just like a wall today.

Q. How disappointed are you with your performance?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I'm a little disappointed because, well, this is the first time I've
played here in a while, and I just wanted to do well. You know, like I said, I didn't
think I played that bad. I mean, I give her a lot of credit. I mean, there's not much you
can do.

Q. What did you think of the surface, the facility?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I liked it. I like everything. It's got a nice atmosphere to it. The
surface was good. It's a nice stadium.

Q. Did you feel nervous the last couple of days before the match?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: No, not really. Maybe just a little bit because I haven't played,
you know, in a little while, since Scottsdale. That was like a week and a half ago or
something. But just not any more than usual. 

Q. Seemed like you had a hard time getting your rhythm with your service game. Was it
your serve or her returns against you?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: A little bit of both. It was kind of, you know, frustrating, like
the whole time you keep pressuring and pressuring, and it doesn't seem like anything
works. It's hard to keep your concentration, just get like on a roll. So I just really
didn't have any good rhythm.

Q. Were the line judges having a little problem out there? Seems like both players got
a little upset. What would you care to say about that, if anything?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I thought I got a few bad calls. I mean, usually in every match,
there's a few here and there. I mean, some are on important points. You know, in a match
like this where every point counts, and it's close, you know, you can't afford to have bad
calls like that. 

Q. Do you have short-term and long-term goals right now as you look ahead toward the
season? Top 10? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah, I mean, I guess I'm looking at that to just improve, maybe get
into the Top 10, improve my ranking a little bit. I mean, I'm pretty close right now. But,
you know, I just take it match-by-match. That's how I look at it. Just try to play each
match well and, you know, do the things that I work on in practice, that my coach wants me
to do. You know, that's it. I mean, right now, I look a lot at the results of how I do
against the top players. I mean, everybody's tough, like you saw today.

Q. There's great depth in the women's game. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah, it's getting a lot better, I think.

Q. Do you see your situation still in the throes of a comeback, or do you feel you have
come back?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I think I've come back. I mean, after just reaching the semifinals,
you know, in a Grand Slam at the first of the year, you know, that's all right. Some
people don't ever do that. I mean, after that I would say I was back.

Q. Is the Olympics something you think about? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah. I would love to play it. I think I have a chance. You know, at
the same time, I'm really not going to think about it a lot because that's going to just
add more pressure - if I'm constantly thinking about improving my ranking so I can get
ahead to play that. You know, if it happens, it happens. If not, I mean, I'm going to do
my best. 

Q. With the cutoff for Olympic selection being straight after Wimbledon, at the moment
you don't really want to have it in the forefront of your mind. When do you think it would
get to the forefront of your mind? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I mean, one of the last -- I'll see what's my last chance if I'm not
there already when that time comes. If it's like my last opportunity, you know, I'll see
then. But, you know, I'll still just take it match-by-match. If I do well, then obviously
that's going to come, the ranking, so... 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT