WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2004
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Happy with how you played today?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I think it was a good win.  The first set was a little bit tough, but I stuck in there.  It was a little bit of a test.  Then I just really played well in the second set when I got going.  
 
Q.  Has your attitude toward tennis changed at all this year?  It seems like you're enjoying it more. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  You know, my attitude is always the same towards tennis, you know.  I just want to do the best out there.  You know, when I'm not feeling it, you know, then I don't even want to go out there and play.  I mean, usually, you know, I only go out there when I want to play well.  This year I haven't had much time to play.  So now is a good time for me to come back and catch up on a lot that I missed the beginning of the year.  So it feels good.  I feel fresher. 
 
Q.  What was different about being out there on People Sunday in an early match?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I was surprised that it was a little bit empty when I first went out there, but I guess it was just taking a while for them to get in.  You can definitely feel a difference in the atmosphere.  I mean, not that it's like they don't appreciate it on the other days, but they're like really feel honored to be there almost. 
 
Q.  What's the biggest challenge for you going into week two with respect to your game, not the opponents, but what you need to do to be at your top game?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, right now I think if I just keep doing whatever it is that I was doing.  It's hard with all the delays.  It kind of breaks up your rhythm.  I feel like I came in with a really good rhythm, just really sharp.  You know, with the rain and everything, you sit around, you start to get a little bit -- it's hard to not just get sluggish and just kind of, you know, lose that quickness.  That's one of the toughest things.  I know especially now, if I keep winning, it's going to be almost like every day.  I've played every day already.  That's usually not what happens in a Grand Slam.  But, you know, I mean, I hope I'm prepared for that physically.  
 
Q.  The foundation of your game pretty much remains the same, but today you showed backhand slice, backhand volley, coming up a little more, a some serves and volleys.  Is that the type of thing that's going to be important in the second week where you can mix it up a little, throw in some new stuff?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  I feel like I have all those things.  You know, I use them in practice.  I guess it's maybe a confidence issue or just, you know, not feeling so good physically.  If I'm, you know, there to the ball, then I feel like I have time to do all these different shots.  And that's the way I feel right now, just that, you know, I have time to kind of pick and choose.  I feel confident in trying all these kind of different varieties.  I think, yeah, it will help me not to just stick to the usual routine of just staying on the baseline, and just trying to, you know, get every ball back.  
 
Q.  I think you have Petrova next.  Do you remember the match at Roland Garros last year, the three-setter?  I think she went to net 12 times in the third set, you none.  She kind of took it from you.  When you go out and play her, how important is it for you not to let her dictate for you that way?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, it will be very important.  I think if I just keep doing what I've been doing, just to try to take the initiative right off the bat and use my power and my groundstrokes, just, you know, keep feeling confident to come to the net.  I think she'll be trying a lot of that, so, you know, it's important for to me just not let her do that, and to keep serving and returning well.  I mean, obviously on the grass, you know, as long as I can rely on my serve and hold my own serve, then I can concentrate more on trying to break her, too.  
 
Q.  How many of the Lightning playoff games were you able to get to?  Did you go to many of the finals games?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No.  I mean, I was in France, so I couldn't.  I went to the last game, final game.  
 
Q.  You've won the biggest tournaments.  What is it like to be in the stands watching other athletes win the biggest prize in their sport?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  It's great.  You know, because I know what it feels like almost.  It's just such a great feeling.  Just, you know, I get chills when I watch somebody else doing it, how much hard work it takes, all that goes into finally getting that prize.  I think the athletes can appreciate it a little more because they really know what it takes.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about going back to the Olympics.  Is that a big deal to you this summer?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  It is.  If it wasn't a big deal, I probably would have said no to playing it because scheduling-wise, it's not the best schedule.  Who knows, you know, with security and all that.  But I don't know if I'm taking a big risk to go.  You know, I think it's been so long for me that I've been there, to actually have another chance to go again, I mean, of course I'm going to take it.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about the decision not to have your family traveling with you this year. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I think just, you know, at this tournament, they've come with me other places, just sort of mixing it up.  You know, it's not that unusual.  I'm 28 years old.  It's not that unusual to kind of be on my own and, and think I can handle it.  You know, want to just try every possible option and give myself every chance to win a Grand Slam, another Grand Slam, to win Wimbledon.  It's just, you know, a personal thing for me, just to really try and do it totally on my own. 
 
Q.  Did that arise at all from the French Open?  Did you feel there was something more pressure having them there, because they were both there in Roland Garros. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, no, I mean, it's just kind of something that I've been maybe thinking about for a while.  I just thought, you know, who knows how many more years I have to go.  You know, for the past 28 years, I've been doing it one way, so why not maybe change it up a little bit.  
 
Q.  Does that mean if you have great success here, you'll stick with the new way of doing things?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I don't know.  Who knows.  I mean, if I'm like in the finals, I don't know, they have to come over and watch.  I mean, you know, so.  But we'll see.  
 
Q.  Can you elaborate about the Olympics.  What gives you the best feeling about being a part of the Olympic team?  What do you most look forward to?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I most look forward to being amongst the other athletes and just being in that atmosphere.  I remember last time it was just -- I really felt just all the history, all the great athletes.  I feel honored to be among them.  It was just a really fun, fun atmosphere also. 
 
Q.  Zina talked about meeting Michael Jordan.  If you could meet one Olympian, who would that be? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Probably would be -- well, I've met Carl Lewis, I've met Bruce Jenner.  I don't know, Greg Louganis.  I've met them.  So I don't know.  
 
Q.  We all mess up sometimes, but what's a bigger screw-up, the Tampa Bay paper printing a couple hundred thousand copies saying the Lightning lost the Stanley Cup or the chair umpire totally screwing up the call in the Venus tiebreak? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I don't know, because I guess they already won.  I don't know.  I guess those are big screw-ups.  
 
Q.  You had a rather short but successful time with Heinz Guenthardt.  Why didn't you go on working with him?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think it was just a scheduling thing.  You know, first he's over here in Europe, I'm over across in the States.  I think it's just maybe he had other commitments still with Swiss TV.  Probably just couldn't work it out where I would get what I need.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT