US OPEN
September 1, 1998
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Novotna seems to think that you are kind of back on the right track maybe, the way you are playing. How do you feel about your game?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I think I am playing a lot better, I think.  Definitely if I can just keep it up, hopefully soon I can have some good results.


Q.  It looked a little bit like you may have won there when you were coming off the court, people were chasing you down.

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I know.  I know, I mean, I guess -- I don't know, there was just -- felt like I won or something.


Q.  People still remember you, still want your autograph; does that surprise you?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I thought there would be like some people still, but I didn't like expect, you know, like the whole crowd kind of, you know, to be so into it and stuff.  I mean, yeah, so I was a little surprised, I think.  But I mean, it just makes me feel really good that they are still like that.


Q.  What are some of the things they say to you? Do you hear when you turn around and --

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Just, you know, we miss you; keep coming back, or trying to come back, and whatever, don't give up or stuff like that, you know, just they are happy to see me.  Things like that.


Q.  Is it hard on you?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  What do you mean hard on me?   Like --


Q.  Do you hear those kind of things as encouragement?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think it is like more encouraging, you know, I just -- I mean, it is just -- yeah, it makes me feel good.  I mean, sometimes, I don't know, it is a little sad in a way sometimes, but I mean, mostly it is good.


Q.  You have had big matches in that stadium.  Now it is a lot different.  Does it feel different?   Did it feel the same today?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Actually, not really.  I mean, it was like a completely different court, I was -- like I tried to keep looking around for something, you know, that would just like make me feel like I was still  like on that, you know, old stadium, but there was really nothing like -- just everything seemed different.  It is a good court, though.  It is good the way it is.


Q.  Are you finding your game more fun now and if so, why?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Actually I mean, it is just -- it is fun.  I mean, it has always like been fun, you know, I mean, it is -- yeah, except for like, you know, when I wasn't playing, of course, I wasn't playing, so you know, but every time that I have played, I have always had fun.


Q.  What was the most encouraging thing about your game today?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I guess that really, you know, I felt like she, you know, my chances and stuff and she really didn't overpower me or anything like that, you know, I just feel like I was just like pretty much with her, staying with her and stuff.  I think I almost could have taken control actually, you know, and -- so -- I mean, even though I lost, I think it was like still pretty positive.


Q.  Do you feel more confident, say a few weeks ago before the draw was announced, that you might have a pretty good tournament and what effect did it have to see that you had Novotna --

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Nothing, just that I mean, just a tough opponent, that is all.  But I am not going to go into any match and think I am going to lose or anything, you know, that -- yeah, I mean, I just have that positive attitude and you have got to play them sometimes so....


Q.  Do you have a favorite and/or most memorable match on that court, that just jumps out on you?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I think that is obvious kind of, the -- I mean, the semifinal US Open ---I don't know what year it was '90 --


Q.   '91.

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  '91.


Q.  Do you still feel pretty good about your chances of being one of the top players in the world and do you have a timetable for that?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, at this point, no, I have no timetable.  I am just going to take things one at a time and just keep going the way I have been going because I think I have just improved a lot and I mean, I have just -- I have -- I think I can only get better from here.  So I think I am definitely like, you know, there is still a lot of players that are still like older than me that are still like in the top, so it is  not like age has anything to do with it.  I mean, you know, I just think whatever you really put your mind to what you really want, you can do anything.


Q.  Do you still feel rusty?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Rusty?


Q.  On court.

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I mean, that is an interesting question.  I think it just has to come with like just confidence, more than anything.  Actually this match was the first time like I felt like I was actually pretty on, you know.  Only thing is just about playing these first rounds like someone like Novotna and stuff, usually in the first round you just -- it is more of a chance to really get like warmed up, you know, and get used to everything and stuff.


Q.  How would you define "On" ?   Is that a technical thing, things you were doing with your racket or a general thing?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Just a general feeling you probably wouldn't understand.  I don't know, if you play, it is like when everything is going well pretty much.


Q.  Do you remember a point in the match when you were feeling that way, a ball you hit or a particular point you played or a -- where you felt you were on?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, from the moment I got out there, the moment I started, you know, I felt just -- I felt pretty good the whole way and stuff.  I think in the second set it just went really quick and I rushed a little bit.  I think in those ways I am still rusty, you know, like I just -- before I would have really maybe taken more time and just really thought out -- work the points more and stuff.


Q.  Given the crowd and the tough opponent, did it feel more like a later match?   Did it feel not like a first-round match?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  It was almost like that, but -- yeah.


Q.  Anything you want to do after your tennis days are over; what is your career path?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I have a couple of things in mind, you know, that I would like to do maybe or just -- but, you know, actually right now this is just kind of what I want to do, devote myself to tennis.


Q.  Recently going into the US Open -- how do you mentally prepare yourself to change the up and downs?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  You have just got to keep on going, just try to have a positive attitude, you know, like I am just working on my game, that is all and, you know, eventually, hopefully, things will click  in.  And I will just start having some wins and stuff. I mean, I have had to qualify, you know, and that has been tough, but, I don't know.  See what happens.


Q.  If we were looking with the sound off on the TV when the match got over with, and it was the sound off and the scoreboard not there, it was hard to tell that you hadn't won the match.  You were smiling and the crowd was standing up and cheering.  Was that something that was a surprise to you or is that a different feeling that you have had after a loss that you have had in the past couple of years or so?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I think definitely it is just kind of because of the crowd, I think, you know, and the way they react to me and stuff.  I think, you know, that I just -- I don't know, I mean, I feel like I played well and so it is -- you know, like I said, it can only get better from here.  Overall, even though I lost it was a good experience, so -- I mean, the crowd was probably -- tonight or something, you know, I might be like going crazy or really -- it will really hit me or something, I don't know just --


Q.  Are you sure it can only get better or are there days you sit back and say, you know, I will never break the top 100 again?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No.  I mean, not really.  I just try to like think positive on everything. Actually, I mean, it is more of like, I know it is going to get better.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT