PILOT PEN INTERNATIONAL
August 23, 1998
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. What happened today? 
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: With what? 
 
Q. The match.
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: What happened with my leg? 
 
Q. Yes.
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I just -- I don't know, I guess as the match went on, you know,
started to feel something in my leg and just went on and just seemed to get worse and
worse. So I guess I got a little -- I mean, the trainers haven't evaluated it yet
completely. You have to talk to them lately if you want. 
 
Q. Did it feel like a cramp or something like a muscle pull?
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: More like a pull. 
 
Q. I would guess that your career isn't where you want it to be right now. But your
game, are you close to the game you want?
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Close. I think I am just, you know, obviously it is not quite 100%
there otherwise I think I would be doing better, but I mean, right now just really trying
not though look at results. 
 
Q. With that in mind you are not looking at -- reflect on what you saw from your game
today.
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Today well, I think I couldn't like give 100% like I did yesterday,
you know, not just running-wise I think -- but like I had my chances for sure like being
up 3-1 in the first and just -- but you know she was very consistent and she didn't make a
lot of errors and, you know, I just had to be more consistent and more aggressive.
Overall, though, I am not -- I mean, I am pretty pleased with the way I played, I guess.
But -- 
 
Q. Is this the only time you haven't managed to get through the qualifying?
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: No. 
 
Q. You have played several tournaments in qualifying.
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: One time before. Do you want to know where? 
 
Q. No, it is your secret.
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Okay. 
 
Q. What is it like playing in the qualifying for you? Is it very different?
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah, I would say it is just tough motivation-wise. I mean, it is
good in a lot of ways, but still it is like you give so much more the qualifying, I think,
you know. I mean, sometimes maybe they are easy, but like this is a strong qualifying
draw. Just it is like I haven't even started the tournament yet. 
 
Q. Do you find people out there, the players out there are maybe a little bit hungrier
to win?
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: What do you mean? 
 
Q. Because they want to get into the tournament?
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: No. I mean, I am just as hungry, I think, yeah. It is just hard, I
think. 
 
Q. Did you sense that the crowd was behind you today, too, very much?
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah. I think so. It is a good crowd here. 
 
Q. Is it a little bit more difficult to be in your position with a big crowd watching
you in the qualifying because they are expecting something? Is there some external
pressure other than the pressure you place on yourself to do well?
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: No. I really don't feel any pressure from them. I mean, I put enough
pressure on myself that I don't need to put, you know, think about those things and get
pressure from there. Basically I just think that like they just -- I felt like they wanted
me to do well and just wanted to see me get back and stuff. So they are just supporting me
so, I don't really feel pressure. I am wavy on that now, of what the expectations and all
that stuff are. I put myself through hell already with that. Pretty much don't make a
difference anymore. 
 
Q. Are you surprised at where you are now if you were to come into the beginning of the
year and looking at your ranking now, is it good, bad, kind of where you want it to be or
--
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I don't know. I mean, before, you know, when I was like lower ranked
-- when I was way back, I think I didn't want to be there for sure, but since I have been
playing better now and stuff, I just look at it as I made improvement from that. 
 
Q. Is it strictly consistency? Your best shots I thought were better than hers.
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah, thanks. Yeah, it is consistency. I mean, it is confidence. It
is just all about uncluttering my mind really. Just playing tennis. And -- I don't know, I
mean, -- I don't want to get into it or anything, but yeah. It is just -- not just
consistency. It is also a lack of matches, I guess too and stuff. 
 
Q. So if I were to ask what is cluttering your mind, I probably wouldn't get anywhere
with that question?
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Probably. 
 
Q. Will you go straight to New York from here?
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I don't know yet. I got to discuss that. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT