PILOT PEN INTERNATIONAL
August 22, 1998
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. That had to be a heck of a match. You staved off three matchpoints there in the
second set? 
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Three. Was that it? Yeah. 
 
Q. Did it seem like more?
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah, it did because I thought -- well, in the game and then in the
tiebreaker too, but I guess whatever, you know. (Laughs) It was just tough. I just was
able to play well. I was playing there -- I fought for everything and it just went my way.
It paid off. 
 
Q. Must be good for your confidence to be able to fight your way out of trouble like
that?
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah, it is. Finally I came out on top in one of the close matches.
It has been -- every match that has been close, I have always been the loser, so this
feels really good. 
 
Q. How much did it help you having the fans really behind you?
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Oh, they helped tremendously. I mean, they were great. I mean, they
really got me back into that match, yeah. They were great. 
 
Q. Why was it so tough?
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Well, I don't know. I mean, she came out on fire -- she was playing
really well. I never played this girl. I didn't really know anything about her and I
didn't know what to expect, but she played well and so, I mean, she kind of caught me off
guard and then I just-- I started playing better in the second set. I think I got more
groove, warmed up a little bit more. And then just winning that set, I mean, gave me so
much confidence that third set, you know I really played the way I like to play. 
 
Q. Any lapses of confidence today?
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: No, not really. Even in the first set, a lot of games I still had
game points and stuff like that and I was still, you know, I mean, I can't win those games
like as much as I would have, you know, the chances I had, but I don't think that is so
much lack of just concentration. 
 
Q. Having played a three-set match in the first round match of a qualifier, may be more
evidence of how strong this field is for the overall tournament?
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah, I mean, you know, it is not that big of a draw and the
tournament, obviously it is just going to be, you know, even the qualifying draw still a
lot of good players. 
 
Q. Do you really enjoy -- (Inaudible.)
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah, I do. Especially if I win. 
 
Q. In the match, as the match progressed seemed like you were getting stronger and
stronger mentally more than physically. You started to play more aggressive. One point you
won 12 straight points late in the third set. Can you try to recapitulate for us what was
going on in your head? Were you saying to yourself: I have got to play tougher, I have got
to be more aggressive or what?
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I just -- I knew kind of the whole match, I knew the way -- before
going into the match I knew the way I wanted to play. I mean, just the way I have been
practicing and everything just I have been practicing real aggressive and stuff and I felt
I have been moving better. I think I just had a little slow start and then after that
first set was over I was just like: Okay, forget about -- you know, the match will start
right now and I still had to fight pretty hard and so just after that second set I -- just
my confidence gained. I was just -- I felt more -- just everything was just starting to,
you know, be on for me. 
 
Q. How do you feel your game is now? Compare it with four years ago.
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I don't know. It is just -- I feel probably just I am stronger and
just because I have grown a little bit or just gotten stronger, you get strong with age, I
guess. Also I mean, I am able to work out the points a little more now. I think a little
better out there. 
 
Q. Is it a fact that you become stronger mentally? I mean, if this was a match you
played, say, twelve months ago, do you think you would have been able to come back and win
or because like you said you have grown and gotten stronger mentally that this was -- you
knew even down 6-0 you could come back and win it?
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah, I think I am a different player than like twelve months ago,
completely different. Really twelve months ago I just-- I really didn't know what was
going on on the court. Now I just -- I feel a lot better, stronger and just like I feel
like I have got a little bit of my tennis back. 
 
Q. What are you going to do to keep your head into the tennis for the next match?
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I just look forward to the next one and that is it, not going to
think, you know, it is only the second round of qualifying, I am just going to look at it
as just a match. Just try to play my best and do all the things that I have been working
on and stuff and just even if I lose or whatever the outcome is, just keep doing what I
have been practicing and training on. 
 
Q. Do you have any idea who you might be playing tomorrow yet or --
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: No. 
 
Q. It doesn't matter?
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: No, it does. I just don't know. 
 
Q. When you travel the circuit, do you travel by yourself now or do you take somebody
with you?
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Usually I take somebody with me. I am not by myself. My family
travels with me. My brother has been travelling with me a lot and, you know, my mom and my
mad or whatever, both or whatever. 
 
Q. It will stay that way for the time being?
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Sure. Yeah. I mean, I have gone to a few tournaments by myself, but
just right now I really like to have them around and I really like the support. 
 
Q. What is it like when you are on your own?
 
 JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Well, I mean, I haven't been to too many tournaments on my own
lately. But just it is kind of like boring. (Laughs) 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT