WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2004
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  That was quite a match.  Did she extend you more than you thought?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, actually.  I didn't expect her to play so well.  She hit a lot of balls back, and she hit a big serve.  I just kept looking at the radar.  I was blinking my eyes, "Are those really coming like 116, 118 there?"  
 
Q.  Had you known much about her?  Had you scouted her out beforehand?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, no.  Just the people that are here with me said they watched a little bit of her match, the previous match.  And I saw a couple highlights on TV.  But that's about it. 
 
Q.  You knew nothing about her problems with her health, how she's battled back and all that?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No.  
 
Q.  She is quite magnificent because she had this liver disease, it's incurable.  She still came back and played to that level. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  It's amazing.  Happy for her that she's able to come back.  I heard something about it, but I didn't know exactly what the disease was.  
 
Q.  A good prospect.  Do you think she can build on that?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yes.  I mean, I think, you know, she's got potential.  I think she has some talent there, especially on the serve.  You know, I think maybe on other surfaces, maybe on hard court also, you know, would be to her advantage.  She moves well.  You know, I don't even know how old she is.  I think she has potential, yeah.  
 
Q.  From your point of view, you look very comfortable.  Do you think you can win this now?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think I have a chance, yeah.  
 
Q.  Talk about going out there today.  You were swinging pretty hard.  Is it just the attitude you're bringing into the tournament, you need to be more aggressive, or are you feeling particularly good on the surface?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think that's like my game, that's just my game.  That's the way I've been practicing.  And I think especially you need to do that on the grass, if anywhere.  Anyway place to do it, it's here on grass court.  It goes a long way.  I think, you know, just the rallies are short.  And if you just can get one, two good shots, you know, right off the bat, I think that's what you've got to take advantage of.  
 
Q.  Your game changes a bit from clay to grass courts.  It's a completely different style.  Do you have to come in here with a bit of a different mentality, because you can't work the points as long as you can on clay?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I mean, I like it both ways.  I mean, I like it this way, too, because then, you know, the more my shots I think will just go through the court harder and become more winners than on clay.  You know, I feel confident to come in behind the shots also.  And that's  what I've been working on.  
 
Q.  How big is serving consistently well for you throughout the tournament going to be?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  It's going to be huge.  I mean, on grass court tennis, that's one of the most important things besides returning.  You know, it's not even just having to hit like humongous serves and just aces.  It's just about placing the ball and setting it up for the next shot.  
 
Q.  If you were confronted with a situation where your opponent got a free point due to an umpire's mistake, how do you think you'd handle it?  What goes through your mind in such a situation?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  You know, it's hard for me to comment because I just couldn't imagine being in that situation.  You know, I don't think -- I don't know.  To let that happen.  I know nobody in my box would have let that happen.  They would have been like, "Wrong score!"  But, you know, afterwards, I mean, I just can't comment on it because I don't know how I would feel in that situation.  It's never happened.  But it would just kind of be bizarre.  I don't know.  
 
Q.  Were you watching yesterday?  What went through your mind at the time if you were?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I was watching it live.  I was just like, you know, listening to the commentators on BBC.  They were like, you know, "What is going on?"  I was just like, "Oh, my gosh, this is really weird.  I can't believe this is happening."  Then, you know, just kept going.  And it just ended that way.  I was just like, "Wow."  You know, couldn't believe it. 
 
Q.  What were your observations of how Venus handled that?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think she handled it well.  You know, obviously it was -- they obviously were confused and probably just so intense on the match.  You know, that can happen.  Definitely you're just so into the playing that you're not paying attention to the score.  So I don't know.  I don't think the players can be really blamed for that, but...  
 
Q.  How long did it take you to mentally recover from the Myskina loss?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Not too long.  I mean, I guess I wasn't that devastated from it, you know.  I went home, and that did me a lot of good,  you know.  I just spent a few days at home.  That was really nice.  Was just able to really regroup and practice at home for like a good week and a half.  
 
Q.  So did you feel okay, it was just a one-off, "I just played terrible that day," or she just played great, probably not going to happen again?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  You know, it was just one of those days, and I can't really explain it.  You know, fortunately it hasn't happened too many times in my career.  You know, it just happened in the semifinals there.  But, you know, what can I do?  I mean, got to give credit to her.  For whatever reason, it was just not meant for me to win that.  
 
Q.  What's the reason of injuries?  Obviously, playing a part in the top of the women's game compared to the men's game, more changes due to injuries in the high rankings?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, the girls I think give a lot of effort day in and day out, to play a rigorous schedule like how it is.  Of course, you're going to get injured.  You know, I think it's a tough schedule on both sides really.  You know, maybe the reason, you know, the girls get more injured, I don't know, is they just, you know, play harder week in and week out.  But I really just -- I don't know.  It happens in any sport.  
 
Q.  Would you have suggestions what to do about it in order to change something?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, they've talked about revising the schedule a little bit, shortening it.  But I think, you know, not everyone always has access to the best, you know, physical therapists or trainers or fitness people, I mean, I guess.  You know, that couldn't even matter also.  It's kind of how your body is, how you're built.  
 
Q.  The age eligibility rule, since it has been introduced, it doesn't seem to have changed players from dropping out early, like Martina Hingis stopping with 23 or and Anna Kournikova dropping out.  What's the reason for that?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  For them dropping out? 
 
Q.  Yeah.  The age eligibility rule doesn't seem to have changed a lot. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, there you go.  Then why even have it exist?  
 
Q.  Would you like to have it abolished?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  To me I think it's kind of stupid, yeah, because then you're practicing, what, five hours a day.  Then that's not really good either.  You know, you come out and, you know, it's your first tournament, so there's more pressure on you that you have to do well, you know, than kind of slowing yourself, getting right into the groove.  It's just right away you get one or two, and all the pressure's on to win because you might not have another chance for a while.  
 
Q.  The last four years there's been discussion about the depth of women's tennis.  But at the slams, it was the Williams, Belgians, you and Lindsay pretty much.  But now with the French with Myskina breaking through and then even here Venus loses yesterday.  Myskina lost today.  Are we seeing that depth is really here?  Is women's tennis more wide open now than it's ever been?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I think so.  I think it's just, you know, a lot of it has also been like the luck of the draw, like the way the draw falls.  You know, maybe most of the good players are in one section, not the other.  That's why, you know, you just see kind of like the dominance.  But, you know, it still doesn't mean the depth is like every single player is just, you know, of high quality.  But I think you definitely have a lot more of it, for sure.  And I've always felt that, you know, I don't breeze through tournaments.  You know.  I don't breeze through Grand Slams.  For me it seems like there's a lot of depth.  
 
Q.  So with players like Sprem being ranked 30, is it going 30, 40, maybe even 50 players deep now?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I think so.  And I think just kind of the mentality and the attitude of these girls are just they have for fear, you know.  It's like, you know, they're young and feisty.  They come out and they don't care who's across the net.  And they just believe that they can win.  I think we're just seeing more of that.  And the more these other girls can beat the top players, you know, it gives the other girls,  you know, more hope and more confidence, too. 
 
Q.  In what way does it make it more difficult, for girls like those coming up now to play as long as you've been playing?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  To make it more difficult?  
 
Q.  That it's harder to be amongst the top players as long as you've achieved it. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, you know, I've had a few years' break, too.  It wasn't like constantly been going.  You know, I haven't overplayed, I think.  I think I've done it pretty well.  You know, I don't know.  Everyone's different.  I don't know what the lifespan of a tennis player is.  You know, but everyone's just I think is just different. 
 
Q.  Is the lifespan of a tennis player changing, do you think?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  You have like a variety, I think.  You know, there's, you know, over 30-year-olds playing in the draw, and I'm reaching that point.  I think it's just -- is just a number.  It doesn't matter.  You know, it's kind of how you feel mentally, feel inside.  I mean, look at Martina.  I mean, you know, she's probably in better shape than a lot of people here that are playing.  So I think it's just a number.  
 
Q.  What advice would you give to someone like Baltacha who obviously wants to be a champion so badly?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I think that's going to take her a long way, that drive.  She obviously does have a lot of determination.  You know, it's just -- I think that's half of it, just wanting it.  You know, the rest is, you know, obviously taking care of her health and making sure she doesn't overdo it, coming back from an illness.  But, you know, just to make the best of it now while she can and that might -- it's not going to last forever.  
 
Q.  Earlier this week Martina was criticizing locals for charging huge amounts of money for players to rent their homes around these championships.  Do you agree with her on that score?  Do you think some of the local residents are trying to profit far too much from your presence?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I have no comment about that.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT