US OPEN
August 26, 1997
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Can you talk about the fifth game of the first set where you were trying to break
back and went to deuce about six times and you lost. Was that an early turning point?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah. I mean, who knows what could have happened if I would have won
that game. But I think she had a lot of chances, a lot of games I was ahead. I probably
overdid a lot of shots. I mean, it was just, I think, definitely from just lack of play. I
mean, there was one ball that I let go and it landed like three feet in the court, you
know. So I think, you know, who knows, if I would have won that game. Yeah, it was a
pretty long game.

Q. Do you remember the last time you played in that stadium?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Uh-huh.

Q. Was it last year?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: No. It was the last time I was here before that, which was like, you
know, '93 I think.

Q. I was actually thinking of the Seles match. Were you comfortable? Were you
comfortable? Did it feel weird?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I mean, I felt really great being out there, especially, you know,
from the crowd. I mean, they were great. I mean, I got chills being out there, you know,
so it was pretty good.

Q. Jennifer, what is your program from now on?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I think I'm just going to keep working hard, just keep trying to get
my game back, you know, just train really hard and then try to play a lot more
tournaments.

Q. Do you know yet which tournaments you're hoping to play?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: No. I'm not sure about, you know, the upcoming tournaments, the
schedule, if I'm going to Europe or not. I mean, I think I'm pretty much going to go play
those tournaments.

Q. What were your thoughts when you saw the draw? I mean, I guess there's better people
to start with than somebody like Conchita. What did you think?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: It really didn't matter to me, either way, if I would have played
her or somebody else. I mean, got to play everyone eventually. I mean, I get more psyched
up when I play the top-ranked players. It's just like an extra incentive for me. 

Q. And did you like the idea of playing in that court? I mean, they've got the new one
and everything. That's the old Open. Did you like the idea of being there right away?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Oh, either way. I mean, just wherever I played, you know, was just
fine with me. I mean, that's still a great court. You know, that still holds a lot of
memories, that court.

Q. Jennifer, how much confidence do you still have in your game right now?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I mean, I don't think I'm just a hundred percent of where, you know,
I was when I was at the top of my game, you know, my confidence level. But I think I've
been getting better with it. Just also, I mean, I think I lacked in fitness and stamina a
lot. You know, that adds to not having like a lot of confidence, too. If you feel great
physically, I mean, you feel like you can just, you know, get to a lot more balls, you
know, play a lot longer points and stuff. I mean, that's something that I've got to work
on. But I really haven't -- I couldn't work out, you know, because of my injury and stuff.

Q. What do you think the crowd was saying to you with the response throughout the
match?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I think they were just glad I was back there and just it's been too
long that I haven't been back there. So I think they just, you know, I was like the major
underdog. New Yorkers like the underdog.

Q. Jennifer, there are a lot of young players out there, like Hingis, Kournikova. When
you watch them play, do you see bits of yourself in any of them, and if so, how?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Do I see myself?

Q. Do they remind you of yourself when you were that age?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Not really, no. I look at them and I just see them, you know. I
don't see myself. There's just a lot of them, you know, a lot of young players.

Q. What do you think of the new age rule?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: The new age rule?

Q. Yes.

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Really I'm not like that familiar with it, you know, so I don't
really know that much about it.

Q. Do you feel that there's an age that it's too young to be playing on The Tour?
That's essentially what they're saying.

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I mean, I think it just depends on the individual, you know. It's
just, you know, whatever, depends on the person. Everyone's different, so.

Q. Did being out there today make you feel like you used to feel out there, or did it
make you feel old?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Old?

Q. Yes.

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: No. It didn't really make me feel old. Everything was just like
positive. I was just like happy that I could be there. I mean, it's just taken a lot to
get there, so.

Q. How strong are your tennis dreams?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Well, you know, after everything's been going, like last night, I
saw that whole ceremony and everything, the opening, it just like -- it just -- I mean, it
was great to see. I wanted, like, so much to be part of something like that. You know, I'm
just going to strive to still try to do that, you know, if I can. You know, I just want to
reach my full potential and see where that takes me.

Q. But is there still a sort of burning ambition that "One day, I think I can be
No. 1, I want to be No. 1," or have you gotten to the point where you think it's
going to be a pretty hard battle to achieve what you might have achieved?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Well, I mean, I still think it's going to be hard, but I still think
in my mind that, I mean, I can do it. If you put your mind to anything, then I think
anything's possible. But it's still going to be hard.

Q. How difficult is the balance? You have a real good mind set of wanting to be patient
and returning to the top of your game. Then on the other hand, you're having first-run
exiting. How disheartening is that up against your patience level, I guess?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I mean, I think I've just got to still keep positive, don't get
discouraged, you know, hopefully if I just get myself in good shape and just, you know,
all areas, stay positive, hopefully I'll just get over that hump. Then, you know, if I win
one round, just winning one round is going to boost my confidence so much. I still think I
can do it, so.

Q. Who is coaching you right now?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Nobody. Just my father.

Q. Are you in Florida or California?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Florida.

Q. Jennifer, what was your strategy today against Conchita?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Well, you know, obviously I played here a few times. I know she's
got that heavy topspin, you know, that slice. The last time I played her was on clay.
That's, I think, more of her surface, you know, favors her more. So I thought, you know, I
would just be consistent. But, you know, since I'm on hardcourts, use that to my
advantage, really try to be aggressive, attack the ball, you know, not let her control me
with all that stuff, just be patient.

Q. Did you think you could attack her slice backhand?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah. I mean, that's what I tried. Overall, I think I played well.
It's just lack of stamina. I was overanxious on a few shots. If I would have just stayed
in there a little more, because the games were so close.

Q. Are you considering hiring a full-time coach?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah.

Q. You are?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: Yeah. I mean, I just -- I've just been kind of waiting for like the
right person, you know. To have a good relationship with someone, long commitment with
someone, someone that I feel comfortable with. Just that person hasn't come along.

Q. Besides your father, who coached you when you were younger?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI: I mean, I've had a few coaches. Tom Gullikson was obviously I think
the biggest coach that I had, for the longest. I had many good times with him as my coach.
Paul McNamee has coached me. There's been a few coaches.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT