THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 22, 1997
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 

Q.  Pretty high quality stuff out there?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  I mean, she hit the ball hard, and I think I played well except I wasn't as aggressive as I should have been in the third set.  I just kind of was like not really doing anything with the ball.  I mean, she hits the kind of ball, you can't get a lot of rhythm.  I don't know.  I think it was a good match. I had a lot of opportunity, especially in the first set.  I should have closed that out really.  I mean, she played well. 
 

Q.  Did you like at 5-1 that she picked up the level or did that you let down a little bit?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think she picked up the level.  I don't know, maybe that threw me off a little bit, then she got the momentum.  I don't know, it's hard when someone gets the momentum.  It was just going her way the first set.  I mean, I just had my opportunities, though. 
 

Q.  Was it fun for you?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, it was.  I mean, the outcome wasn't good, but it was.  I enjoyed being out there, just playing a good match. 
 

Q.  How important is it against a player like her to actually play her once to get a fix on what she does, what she does well, for the future?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think it's just as important as anyone, especially when you hear -- I haven't really seen her play at all -- when you hear good things about a player.  I mean, of course, you could use that one time just to get the feel, just know how they play.  It's different -- you know what you've got to do different for the next time, so you're a little more prepared for the next time. 
 

Q.  Does it help more against someone like her than just another girl on the Tour?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, it does.  I mean, in my case I'm finding it's the girls that I just don't know that I'm having trouble with.  I don't know.  The more I play, though, the better I feel I get. 
 

Q.  Were you curious about her?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Of course, like anyone would be, you know.  
 

Q.  Were you aware of all the hype, that there was a lot of hype around this match?  A lot of people were waiting for it.
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, of course.  I mean, I figured the time would come.  I don't really care about that stuff.  I don't really think about that stuff.  I just go out there and try to play, forget whatever else is going on. 
 

Q.  Other champions, used to remark on feeling more pressure against a Tracy Austin, rather than like another phenom.  Is that the case with you, when you face having been one yourself, then you face a similar case?  Is there any pressure in that situation?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think there can be pressure, if you let it get to you.  You can't put the pressure on yourself.  You could just start to get in the way of thinking, the way everybody else is thinking about it, this is an ex-phenom playing the current phenom.  I just try not to put the pressure on myself. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT