THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 25, 1996
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What happened to your feet? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Oh, my feet?  Not really blisters, just something with my toes.  
 

Q.  Did it bother you in the last of the game? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, you know, like everything, you have something, if it's too painful, you just don't play.  Other than that, you know, you just play with it, nothing bad, serious.  
 

Q.  What did it feel like to be back out there again, a big name player?  Must have felt pretty nice? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  Just like old times.  
 

Q.  Have a little trouble with the slice and spin out there today? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  A little bit.  You know, I haven't played her in a long time.  I mean, she hits it so well.  It was just a little difficult because she was just hitting it so well.  You know, I guess it makes me realize more things I have trouble with still; what to work on; how to adjust to that.  
 

Q.  Compared to previous matches, were you more nervous or exactly the same or less? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, every match is different, you know.  You know, I think I could have done a little bit better, but still I feel like I had a great tournament, a great time, so I'm very happy with myself and with everything.  
 

Q.  Where are you playing next? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, right now I haven't really made like a schedule to attend any upcoming tournaments.  I haven't done any of that yet, so I don't know.  
 

Q.  What are you considering? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, nothing right now.  I mean, I've played kind of like, you know, a few tournaments right in a row.  Right now I just want to -- I don't want to push it to go too many tournaments in a row.  We'll just have to see how it goes.  
 

Q.  Was it your idea to play a full schedule at some point?  What are your thoughts looking down the road?  What are you considering in terms of not playing that much or playing a lot? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  As far as right now, I feel like I'm back, so I'm back.  All the tournaments are coming back, I'm ready to play, so I'm go ahead and play.  
 

Q.  Do you see yourself playing any of the slams this year?  You don't know yet? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I don't -- I mean, I would love to, if all goes well.  
 

Q.  Have you received tons of wild cards from tournament organizers yet or not? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, you guys should know about that.  
 

Q.  Proposals or not?  Like playing Rome, have you been asked to play Rome, for instance? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, I haven't thought about that, had anything to do with that right now.  Right now I'm concentrating on my playing.  
 

Q.  What color are your nails? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Blue.  Not purple.  Blue.  
 

Q.  I thought you didn't read the articles. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Somebody told me.  
 

Q.  Jennifer, are you happy with your condition? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Sorry?  
 

Q.  Are you happy with your condition? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yes.  I mean, the more I play, match play, the better I'll get.  I did feel a little bit tired today, but I still feel like I'm in great shape.  
 

Q.  When you got back to 5-4 in the second set, did you start having a feeling that maybe you could get through and push it into a third set?  Were you having those thoughts? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  I felt like I started to really get into it, start to play better, but it just didn't work out that way.  
 

Q.  She had the three double-faults in the last game there.  Did you have the sense she was tightening up and maybe giving you an opening? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Maybe.  I wish I would have took more advantage of it, really tried to close it out from there, you know, maybe just win the second set.  
 

Q.  Jennifer, do you sense that you're as popular as you ever were with the fans, maybe even more so? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, I really feel their support a lot, you know.  I really feel that they're just happy to see me.  Yeah, so I guess they're happy for me.  
 

Q.  Does that surprise you, given all you've been through? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Surprise me?  
 

Q.  Yes.  Does that surprise you that, you know, maybe you expected some negative feedback after things you've been through or whatever?  Does it surprise you? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No., no, because -- I mean, well, I haven't had any bad relation to the public, you know, it's always been positive with them.  I've never gotten any negativeness from, you know, my fans and from the public.  
 

Q.  Will Wimbledon feature in your plans this year? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  I mean, you know, like I said before, if all goes well, you know, I'm ready to start playing.  I mean, I'm back, so......  
 

Q.  What do you think is missing?  I mean, you said this match showed you some things you have to work on.  What do you think's missing? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I think just matchplay; just experience just from, you know, when it gets to the top players, their level.  I mean, just all different kinds of games.  For me to be able to play well against them, you know.  
 

Q.  Jennifer, you've had to overcome a lot of obstacles.  What has been the hardest part of getting your personal life back together? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I haven't had any obstacles, it's just -- it's my personal life.  Right now, you know, I'm just back and this is what I want to do.  I'm just here to play tennis right now.  
 

Q.  What is the biggest problem now?  I mean, to face the press, to play tennis, depends on the opponents?  What is the most difficult part that you have to face, the one that you feel more? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, it's not -- as long as I have the support of my family and my friends close to me, that's all that counts.  I mean, really nothing's that difficult.  
 

Q.  Nothing worries you? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  You know, it's all part of it. You know, nothing's going to stop me from doing what I want to do, so.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT