THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 24, 1996
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  How happy are you tonight? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I'm very happy, very excited.  
 

Q.  Did you think it had slipped away in the second set? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No.  I never think that way on the court.  I just always take it point by point and, you know, never say, you know, you're out of it until you're out of it.  
 

Q.  You got off to such a quick start.  Were you surprised at all? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No.  I just, you know, wanted to keep it going that way.  
 

Q.  What was your impression of her before you played today?  I know you've played her before. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  Well, I know she's been playing well lately.  She's a very tough player because she's very quick.  I just knew that, you know, I had to be ready to go for every ball, just be ready to stay out there, you know, because she's a very consistent and solid player. I mean, she just doesn't give it to you, so --  
 

Q.  Is she a player you can benchmark your performance by, you can rate yourself? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, it just shows a lot to me that I'm just playing well, you know, I can do well enough to beat someone like her.  
 

Q.  How significant was it to beat the No. 10 player in a tournament of this stature?  Was this a pretty significant milestone in your comeback? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, it feels great, you know, to beat someone ranked like her.  I'm very happy that I could do it.  
 

Q.  Jennifer, Gaby is next.  Do you want to talk about that?  You haven't played her in a while, too.  What do you think you're going to do? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, I'm looking forward to it.  I haven't played her in a while.  
 

Q.  Any special game plan? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No.  I really haven't thought about it that much yet, that far.  
 

Q.  What did you feel like was clicking for you today? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, you know, I was making a lot of errors in the second set.  Really what you've got to do when you play someone like her is, you know, be willing to do whatever it takes, be willing to be out there all day.  You know, I have to know not when to go for it and know when to go for it.  You know, I just was able to just cut down on errors and just, you know, just play well when I needed to.  
 

Q.  Do you think the lapse, you also had one in your earlier match, is that, you know, just lack of match experience where your concentration might wander? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I don't know.  I can't really explain it.  I just do whatever it takes.  
 

Q.  Do you feel you're as fit as you've ever been or is it still coming back? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I mean, I feel like I am in the best shape that I've ever been, but it's different training and practice.  You can still work really hard in practice, but it's not the same intensity as it is playing a match, you know, because every point you're giving it all you've got.  Still in that sense, you know, I'm still getting back to that, being able to do that.  
 

Q.  The adrenaline takes a little more out of you? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Not when it's going, but afterwards.  
 

Q.  Unforced errors, what was your biggest problems there?  Was it hitting the ball long? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Just missing them, you know, just errors.  It was like a little bit difficult with the change of light and just, you know, the shade, got darker, lights had to come on.  
 

Q.  Did you do anything to adjust in the third? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I just stopped, you know, trying to make -- I mean, I stopped, you know, trying to make the errors and, you know, not go for it as much as I was because that was what was making me make the errors, I think.  
 

Q.  It seemed when you started going to the net early in the third, that was working. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  I think I wasn't doing that enough.  When you're doing something that's not working, you know, you've got to do something else that maybe is going to work for you.  
 

Q.  Off the game for a moment, Jennifer.  Have you been following the media coverage of you since your comeback, and if so, do you have any comments about it?  Answer, assuming you're among friends. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I just -- I don't read anything, I don't pay attention to anything.  So, no.  No comment.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT