THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 23, 1996
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  How did you feel out there today?  
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I feel pretty good.  
 

Q.  First set? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, it was pretty close, you know, I felt that I had to play well, you know, because she was playing well and, you know, I think at the important points, you know, I should have done more of that, concentrate on more of the close points and I didn't concentrate as well as I would have liked to, but, you know, I pulled it out.  
 

Q.  Do you think that comes with more match practice from being away for so long, just getting your concentration back? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I suppose.  
 

Q.  Jennifer, you gotta lot of support out there, particularly at the end there.  What kind of feeling does that give you? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  It was great, you know, it really lifted me up and, you know, just lifted my whole game up, you know, it just really helps me a lot in that way, you know, it just gets me up, gets me going, you know.  
 

Q.  Did you feel more comfortable today, not quite as nervous as you did in your first match the other night? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I mean it was a little different, I had to adjust because I played the night match and it was the day match, you know, it was a little different, but, you know, I wasn't as nervous.  
 

Q.  Going back to that crowd, do you let it sink in?  Do you kind of tune it out until the very end?  How does that affect you? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, I definitely hear them when they roar, I hear it, you know.  
 

Q.  But is it hard to tune it out, are you concentrating on your game? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I mean, I'm not -- I'm still concentrating on my game, it's just, you know, I hear them cheering instead of anything else.  You know, other than that, I don't hear anything.  
 

Q.  What about after the match when they gave you that big ovation, does that kind of give you chills, I mean, when you are standing there and hear that from the crowd? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, it felt really great.  It was great.  
 

Q.  Jennifer, when you first came in to play pro tennis, a lot of pressure was pinned on you being the next American hope.  Do you feel that now on your turn there are more American women who are breaking into the top ten and really -- 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I think there are a lot of players out there now, you know, a lot of upcoming players, you know, that are just --  
 

Q.  Do you feel there are more American women who are in the public eye than maybe before than when you were playing? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I feel there were a lot of American women, a lot more, definitely.  
 

Q.  When you first came in, did you feel like there was a lot of pressure on you to be the next American, you know, I mean -- because you were American and because there weren't American women dominating, a lot of them were retiring at that point? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, I really didn't put that pressure on myself, you know.  I just didn't think of that.  I just -- that's not the way I did it.  That's not the way I played, you know.  I was just playing for myself and just playing.  
 

Q.  Is it nice to know Chanda Rubin is there and Lindsay Davenport is coming up? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think there are a lot more.  I think there is depth in the game.  
 

Q.  What do you think your game is compared to when you were at the top before you left the tour?  I mean, how close are you, do you think? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, it is a little different.  I feel just like I'm -- it's not so much baby tennis any more, you know, I just feel like stronger, older and just, you know, I just feel, you know, really strong with my game, you know.  I don't know, I just feel like, you know, I'm really happy with the way I'm --  
 

Q.  Can you put a percentage on the action of this gentleman's question, percentage of where you are compared to where you were, 70, 80 percent of your form -- 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I think -- I think hopefully with more matchplay, you know, more experience being out there the better I'll get, but, you know, I think I'm at like, I don't know, at least 80, if you want a percentage, 80 percent of my game, I don't know.  100 percent, I don't know.  
 

Q.  Are there shots that you felt you would have gotten in the past that you aren't reaching yet because you are not, you know, haven't gotten to that level?  I might have been able to get that before, or is it -- is the past so much of a past that you are only thinking about -- 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, a little bit.  There are some shots, then there are also some shots that are better than then they were before.  
 

Q.  Which are?  What do you feel is better now? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I don't know, I mean, I'd say -- I feel more aggressive, I feel like I just can come -- I feel more comfortable coming to the net.  I remember I didn't -- I always wanted myself to do that more and I'm just, you know, I just feel more comfortable with that, just more of attacking style.  
 

Q.  It does seem like you actually are more comfortable coming in.  Did you work on that specifically or is it just something that came with strength and time?  I mean, when you were off and started thinking about coming back, did you actually work on that much? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I mean -- no, I just -- I just wanted to work on all parts of my game and really just have no fear, you know, have no fear and just be able to do anything, you know, whatever is the best way that is going to make you win.  
 

Q.  Are you looking for a coach to travel with you? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Right now, no.  I am not thinking of that.  
 

Q.  I might have missed one thing which was, in Indian Wells you were having a little problem with your ball toss; is that right, or no, I mean -- 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, it was just -- I think everything was just a little off and, you know, it is just all about getting the feeling back.  
 
Q.  It doesn't seem like you were having any problem -- 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  It is just getting the feeling back, you know, there's just -- I think serve and, you know, return, or, you know, you know, maybe the hardest to get back and so just because it's, you know, so technical, you know, after a long time, you know.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT