THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 21, 1996
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  What was going through your mind in the first set early? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I was just trying to concentrate about my game and just think about that and, you know, not rush into things and just take it slow and, you know, it was going -- I started missing, I just had to adjust a little bit.  I was just trying to stay focused. 


Q.  Were you nervous at all? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, yeah, I was a little nervous. 


Q.  How come? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, how come? 


Q.  Yes. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I haven't been playing and I haven't been playing in front of a lot of people and just, I mean, you can't just go right into that and, you know, like it is nothing.  I think every human has feelings and gets those jitters and I am only human. 


Q.  It is good to feel the jitters again, though, Jennifer? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, it was good.  It turned out to be good.  Yeah, I was having a great time out there. Especially the way the crowd was supporting me and just they were cheering for me and I liked it.  It felt good. 


Q.  It is any different being back here in South Florida? Could you tell that you were in South Florida, other than the temperature? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, yeah, I knew I was in South Florida.  It is Lipton. 


Q.  I mean, the crowd's reaction and all that? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I guess it is sort of my hometown, so, yeah, I guess they supported me more just because of that. 


Q.  Jennifer, what did you tell yourself when it was Love-5? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I was just like, all right, come on, you know, start -- stop missing and just go for it and just go for it.  Just let yourself go and that is it. 


Q.  How far is your game from where you'd like it to be? Do you feel like it is close or do you feel like you have a long way to go? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think all of it just has to do with playing more and getting back the feeling and the experience, you know, the situations where it is close and, you know, that takes, you know, getting used to again, but I am very pleased with my game.  I felt good.  I mean, I felt I was really on and I have been-- I played good, you know, when you are hitting the ball well, so I feel really good about it. 


Q.  Is there a reason -- was it important for you to play down here? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I just thought it would be a great time to start and I have been on, you know, I started in Germany -- I mean, in Europe, and then just decided to play California and this is where I wanted to play next, so..... 


Q.  When did it strike you that you wanted to be a tennis player again? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I mean, it never -- I mean, I have always had it in my head.  I mean, I never thought I was just done, completely done with tennis, and, you know, I just start feeling the desire again, you know, for some time and, you know, I just knew that it was inside me and it is what I do best and I wasn't -- I was looking ahead in my life and I wasn't real -- realized I wasn't ready like what am I doing, I am giving up tennis for the rest of my life or I am not ready to give it up and, you know, got a long ways to go. 


Q.  Jennifer, you are heading into your last week as a teenager, can you kind of reflect what the told adolescence was like? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I went through a lot of emotions and feelings and, you know, pretty fun, crazy time, I mean, just being a teenager. 


Q.  Do you feel more grown up now? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I am getting old, yeah (AUDIENCE LAUGHTER). 


Q.  Jennifer, can you remember the last time that you felt as happy and as good on the court as you did tonight? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  It was just -- I mean, of course there was the good times when I played the Olympics; when I won the gold medal and just when I had some -- I mean, that was just a great time. 


Q.  Was it watching TV, watching matches on TV or seeing Slams, is that -- is that what helped push you back or was there anything specific that pushed you back towards tennis? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, nothing specifically.  I just -- I just got to the point where I just -- it is what I wanted and I wanted to do what I do and come back and play tennis.  It feels great. 


Q.  Did you watch it when you were away? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Not a whole lot, no.  Just -- I mean, I wasn't like, you know, didn't watch every time it came on, just when I happened to see it. 


Q.  Jennifer, what do you get from tennis that you don't get from anything else? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  The satisfaction of working really hard at something and seeing the results of what you have been working at. You know, it is an expression.  It is a release of yourself.  It is just -- I mean, there is nothing like ripping a backhand down the line.  I mean, it is -- you know, it is-- I'm a competitive person.  It feels good to be in that competitive situation. 


Q.  Even though it is early, do you have any thoughts or hopes about possibly retaining your gold medal? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I am going -- it will be great to play and go for it.  If I play enough tournaments and I guess, you know, I need a ranking and all that.  If I do well and I would be able to play, I'd love to play. 


Q.  Was your father here tonight? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yes.  Of course. 


Q.  Do you think you are going to enjoy this more?  Do you think you can enjoy it now that you are older than when you were younger? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  This is just what I want to do now.  This is where I am at in my life.  This is the stage I am at, and, you know, I can have fun with anything I do and, of course, this can be a great life and very fun. 


Q.  Jennifer, were you always sure this is what you wanted to do? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  What do you mean?  Like, from -- 


Q.  When you were 15, 16, were you sure you wanted to be a tennis player?  Did you appreciate it as much as maybe you do now? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I mean, I can't really say. I mean, I didn't, you know, then -- I mean, now -- I don't know, just happy to be back and just -- 


Q.  Jennifer, if you to do it over, would you rather have started at 17 or 18 instead of 14? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, I don't know.  You can't always look back in the past.  I mean, you can't look at what you should have done or what would have been better.  Just got to live in the now. 


Q.  Jennifer, were you apprehensive at all how South Florida -- how the public received you out there? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No.  I was just, you know, I didn't really think about that.  I wasn't nervous about that or just, you know, I felt the vibes were good, so..... 


Q.  At Love-5, how sure were you, if you were sure at all, that could you win tonight? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I got to take it point by point and not look ahead really. 


Q.  You seemed a lot more guarded about what you tell the media now than when you were when you were 15, 16.  Are you a little more guarded about your private life now and talking to the media in general? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I think there is a private life and there is the side that you guys, you know, should know I should talk about.  So I mean, what is there to tell about my private life? 


Q.  Talk again -- initial feelings coming out on the court again tonight and the jitters and all that? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I was just nervous and just I just, you know, I was still wanted to stay confident and I was just pumped up and psyched to play and, you know, I knew that I could do it and that I can play.  Then I was just -- I was fine.  I just got into the groove. 


Q.  Who is here for you today, in your entourage, people, friends? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Just my family.  Family and friends. 


Q.  Mom, dad, brother? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, my whole family. 


Q.  Do you think the crowd was pulling for you?  Do you feel it was your crowd? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I felt, you know, the support from them a lot. 


Q.  Do you think that was just because of tennis Jennifer or do you think they are pulling you for a person or for other reasons as well? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I mean, it has to do all -- it is one, isn't it? 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT