WIMBLEDON
June 24, 2004
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Finally finished your first-round match. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Finally, I know.  
 
Q.  What did you do all day yesterday?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I just sat around, practiced indoors.  You know, they kept saying, "There's a window, there's a window."  You kept thinking maybe you were going to play.  I just was staying close by, so I actually went to where I'm staying.  
 
Q.  How many times has Tom Gullikson made you laugh this week?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  A lot.  
 
Q.  Is he a relaxing kind of guy to be around?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  He is very relaxing.  He's just mellow, you know, doesn't stress about things, just kind of keeps everything light and fun.  
 
Q.  Do you think in the final analysis that it's better for you, do you feel more comfortable with just bringing in somebody to help you through a Grand Slam or a couple weeks at a time rather than have a full-time coach? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I mean, I kind of just -- you know, I'm not -- to make no real plans with anyone.  I mean, it's like, because then, you know, with the commitment.  And then, you know, sometimes you're not really sure and you don't want to just commit with somebody, and you don't quite know.  You know, things change all the time.  But I think at this point, I mean, that wouldn't be such a bad idea, you know, to just at the big tournaments have somebody.  And, you know, when I'm home, I work out with my dad still.  I think, you know, more and more I'll probably be, you know, going to these tournaments by myself and jjust kind of trying that out. So, you know, at this point, it's not like I need a lot of coaching anyways.  And, you know, it's kind of just keeping someone there to be light, to keep things light and to keep things fun. 
 
Q.  What do you know about your next opponent?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Not a whole lot, yeah.  
 
Q.  Did you know anything about her first match?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  About this?  
 
Q.  About her first-round win. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Her first or my first?  
 
Q.  Her first-round win. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Oh, no.  Who did she beat?  
 
Q.  I'm trying to remember.  Marrero. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Actually, I did see a few of those points.  I wasn't sure.  
 
Q.  Have you played a Brit here before?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I don't know.  I'm not good with statistics.  I don't know.  
 
Q.  How's motivation for you?  It's 14 years since your debut.  Does this one still grab you?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  I mean, I think it's amazing that I'm still here and still playing, so I should be motivated for that, that I can still be here not only playing, but I think even in the runnings for maybe even winning it.  
 
Q.  Speaking of amazing as still being here, what are your thoughts on Martina Navratilova playing singles, and your thoughts in general on her at age 47 doing what she's doing. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, I think it's pretty remarkable that she's done that.  I mean, as long as -- you know, I've said this before about the future and youngsters coming up.  I think it's better to maybe give them a chance to play, you know.  I mean, she had her time.  But, I mean, that she's in it and she won especially, I mean, I think it's -- you know, she has a lot of respect from the players and from the fans still.  And I think it's just -- it's really -- it's still an honor for us to kind of watch her play still. 
 
Q.  Has she transformed your view?  Have you swung from your opinion from when you thought she should give others a chance?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, no, now that she's in it, just make the best of it and enjoy her playing, you know.  But, uhm, I haven't like talked to her about that.  I'm sure that it was a decision that probably that's the thought that went into it.  
 
Q.  What is your perspective on somebody being able to do what she's done?  What does it say about her?  Does it say anything about the tour, the level of depth?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No.  I think it's -- I mean, she's a great -- she's kind of been ahead, anyways, of her years, and the time, and always kind of set the standard, even, you know, when she was in another peak.  And now, you know, I think she's still a great example, and she's got a great game.  And, you know, it's just her -- it's amazing for her.  I don't know if anyone else could do it.  But, you know, that just goes to show what a great athlete and tennis player.  I don't think that just downgrades the level of women's tennis.  You know, she gives others hope, you know. 
 
Q.  What are her chances to get deep in this tournament, do you think?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I don't know.  I mean, it's just kind of like, you know, she plays someone she already played in the French.  It's a completely different surface.  I mean, I still think, you know, she'll have a hard time, you know, advancing.  But it will be interesting to see.  I mean, who knows.  
 
Q.  I quite understand you talk every time about, you know, one game at a time.  Are you looking forward with great enthusiasm to playing Serena if you both make it to the quarters okay, especially after Paris?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I look forward to all the matches.  Yeah, any kind of match like that, it's a real challenge and it's a real test and it should be very exciting.  But we both have to get there first.  
 
Q.  How did you feel your first match went?  Schaul seemed to (inaudible) pretty confidently?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I was pleased with the way I played today.  Considering the conditions and, you know, it was real windy out there.  And it was kind of -- you had to really concentrate and  move your feet.  You know, I felt like I hit a good, clean ball, you know, considering all the wind and everything and the waiting around.  So I came out and I think I was moving well also. 
 
Q.  What did you think about Schaul?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think she's a good little player.  I think she has a lot of potential.  I mean, I never heard much about her, and I just knew that, you know, I guess she's the one that beat Lindsay in Strasbourg.  I didn't know that.  You know, so I think she has a lot of potential.  You know, she's a good player.  
 
Q.  Do you firmly believe you can win this tournament?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  
 
Q.  How did the win over Serena in Paris sort of set you up confidence-wise for the rest of the summer?  It was a nice breakthrough.  Something to build on?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I mean, it's nice to definitely see the results.  You know, you always keep going at it and you always try to be positive.  Even though sometimes you come close and you can look at that and you say, "Well, I came close, maybe I should have won that match."  But obviously it's not the same as actually winning the match.  So, you know, for me it was just a lot of relief, you know, for myself that I finally was able to  really -- to go through all the way and not just come close.  You know, I did it twice.  But, you know, I was just kind of forget about those matches now because it all starts over every time you walk on the court. 
 
Q.  Not really something you can build on?  You just have to forget it, in a way?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, because then, you know, I might start putting pressure on myself again.  It's just kind of, you know, just take the match as it comes and, yeah, just stay in that moment and focus on my game because a lot of things can change. 
 
Q.  You were talking about Martina.  Can you imagine what you might be doing in 20 years?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I don't know.  I hope I can still run around and play.  But, uhm, sometimes it feels like I just struggle now.  Yeah, I mean, you know, it's like I would hope that, you know, if I won as much as she did, that I would come and ask for a wildcard into Wimbledon and they would give me one. 
 
Q.  But aside from tennis, do you hope to have a family or another career? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I mean, I think that's a long ways down the road to think.  You know, just hopefully have a family.  I mean, I have to get a boyfriend first.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT