U.S. OPEN
September 1, 1992
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.   Jennifer, what were your thoughts when Nicole was serving
for the first set?

 JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I didn't really want to think that
she was serving for the first set.  I just tried to take point
by point, you know, game by game, and maybe I could make a comeback
there, but I just -- really tried to pick up a level there, and
got more intense and I concentrated a little better.

 Q.   Didn't you have some slow starts, last week, also in
San Diego?

 JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  It is like the story of my life.

 Q.   Do you think it is maybe the same reason that it happened
today or is it just such a different tournament that it may be
different?

 JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think that it is different today because
I wasn't really used to the conditions.  It was real windy out
there; I am not really a wind player, you know.  It is the center
court and it is a little noisier than other stadiums.  It adjust
takes getting used to.

 Q.   What turned it around when it was 5-1? Could you describe
how things changed?

 JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I just got more intense, and just tried
to focus a little better, and you know, concentrate more.

 Q.   How much trouble did you feel like you were in, in that
first set?  Did you feel like at every point, well, I can still
come back and win it or did you ever think --

 JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, I thought I was in a lot of trouble,
you know.  Of course, I said to myself, you can come back. There
is still another set for you.  I just tried to take it slow and
concentrated on every point.

 Q.   You actually talk to yourself you tell yourself, like,
you know, concentrate on this point, or make sure about your forehand
or something or are you not talking to yourself?

 JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I do.  Sometimes I don't, outloud but
I am saying it to myself.

 Q.   What kind of stuff were you going through today?  Like
at 5-1, what was the thought there?  

 JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I was just thinking just to really
stay calm, and it is okay, just take it point by point, and concentrate
and not -- and cut down on the errors.  I didn't think I was going
for it as much, you know, the whole match; I didn't think I was
really going for it, because I thought I was missing a lot and
I didn't really feel that comfortable out there hitting out.

 Q.   Jennifer, could you help -- this year has been obviously
up and down for you.  I think you started with black nail polish,
there were stories about how she is having difficulty growing
up and things like that.  Can you put this year in perspective
as far as your development goes on and off the court?

 JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I am just a normal person and I think
everyone goes through, you know, sometimes, and you know, I am
fine, and I am really happy with the way things are going, about
my tennis right now, and especially these last two months, obviously
for the Olympics and stuff and I just think I am playing well.


 Q.   Was there a moment where things changed for you, this
year, where you can just look to a moment where things changed?

 JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I just think, after Rome, actually,
you know, I had a bad loss there, and then, after that, I just
really started working harder, and I improved in my fitness and
stuff and just casual process where I just started to play better.


 Q.   What did you do different in the second set?

 JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I just -- I think I cut down on the errors,
and also she started making more errors.  I think she just let
down a little.  But I think I played a little better the second.


 Q.   Jennifer, your summers seem to be the time you have played
well.  What factor does school have to do with it?

 JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I don't think it is school because up until
like two weeks ago, I was making up work.

 Q.   Really.

 JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  So, I don't know, maybe it is just
because it is summer, and you know, I don't have to go, or just
kind of have off, the summer, but I don't think it is really that.
 I don't know why.

 Q.   You have also talked about the effect that the Olympics
experience had on your career.  Has tennis been that fun in awhile,
the type of tennis you experienced at the Olympics?

 JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I mean, in my short career, I haven't
really experienced like being at the Olympics.  That was definitely
different than playing in a tournament.  It was just really something
really special for me, like I just had a great time there.

 Q.   How different?  I mean, since we don't play in tournaments,
we don't really know your experience.

 JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  It is very different.  First of all, it is
like you are representing your country there.  Even though as
an individual, the draw, the setup; still, I had that team feeling
there, and also it wasn't just tennis, it was you know, you are
there with the greatest athletes in the world, and from all over
the world, and in the village of course, and just, there.  I wasn't
just mingling or talking or socializing with other tennis players
like you do here in the lounge.  It was just, like swimmers and
rowers, and people who do track and field.

 Q.   Who were some of the people that you met that you wanted
to meet; that you went out of your way to meet?

 JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Really, you didn't have to go out of your
way because everyone is just there, and I would just be in the
cafeteria and sit down with some people and there will be somebody
great, you know, the greatest athlete.  I met a lot of the swimmers
like Summer St. Nicholls.  I met Jeanette Evans, really great.
 They are fun.

 Q.   Did the difficulty of this match today surprise you and
do you think it is better for the rest of the tournament for you
to have a first tough round match?

 JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I don't mind an easy match or a hard match.

      Maybe first couple of rounds, I'd like it a little easier,
but later on, I think a tough match is good.  Just kind of get
you in the mode, you know, really playing hard tennis and I mean,
I didn't know it takes-- I never think it is going to be easy.
 I always think everyone is good, so, I got to be ready.

 Q.   Do you approach this Open differently now? I mean, do
you feel that you can win this, or did you always believe that
you could win a Grand Slam?

 JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I don't always go in there believing
that I can win a Grand Slam or any tournament, but this year,
I expect more from myself this year; to get pretty far; not even
because of how it has been going lately about the Olympics or
the win last week; just on how I did last year.  You know, from
getting that far, last year, just I put it on myself to think,
well, if you can do that last year, then why can't you do it this
year again.

 Q.   Has the thought of becoming the youngest ever champion
here crossed your mind? 

 JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, when people ask me-- when people say
that to me, you know, I kind of just think about it, wow, but
I really don't think about it.

 Q.   I mean are you looking for the final?

 JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No.  I am looking for just a couple of more
rounds.  Yeah, of course I am.   

 End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT