TELECOM ITALIA MASTERS
May 16, 2004
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  You were part of something great.  I don't know if that's any consolation.  Did you feel you were part of something great, extraordinary? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I felt like we were both just playing really unbelievable tennis.  And, you know, I didn't lose; she had to win the match.  And, you know, I don't really feel that bad right now.  I just am pretty tired more than anything.  But, yeah, I think it was just a really fantastic match.  You know, that's what I thrive for and that's what I play for, these kind of matches.  You know, there's nothing more I could say.  Just really just by losing by a couple points really, so... two points, yeah.  So I guess in the end there's really no loser in the match, so... 
 
Q.  That's not quite like the match you two played a week ago, is it? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, not at all.  It was  -- well, I think it was a different player today than a week ago.  You know, I've just been on a roll all week long.  And last week she really played well, but I wasn't ready for her.  You know, you learn something from those kind of matches.  You know, that's what it takes to be a great player, is to come back and bounce back from those kind of losses.  And, you know, so I had something to prove to myself and to her that, you know, that was just basically a fluke, you know, for her to beat me like that, and, you know, I wasn't gonna let that happen again.  And, you know, I made her really earn it.  And I think, yeah, I was just a totally different player out there than last week, so... 
 
Q.  Any shot you'd like to take back in that match? The dropshot? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  You know, it's like...  No.  Every point, you know, did have a purpose, you know.  It wasn't like I just  -- you know, maybe one forehand or whatever, that dropshot.  But when she was serving, I had matchpoint in that game, you know, maybe just even the first return of serve where I hit the backhand out, you know, I mean, I could have from that first point just gone for it and not decided a point later or two points later I was gonna go for it.  But there wasn't too many, like, stupid shots that we hit, you know  - or I was hitting.  Every point, every shot had a purpose, I felt. 
 
Q.  Do you recall that matchpoint?  I thought you were gonna run right into the grandstand.  I heard you screaming.  I didn't know if you were hurt.
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, that was just the grunt, to try to get it over that little more extra, so...  Yeah, I guess that running forehand was really working for me today.  
 
Q.  Shot of the tournament. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah (laughing). 
 
Q.  Do you feel more Italian today after this match?  The crowd was all over you.  What are you feeling?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, I mean, I just felt like they were supporting me, you know.  I don't think it really had to do with nationality.  You know what I mean? 
 
Q.  Yes, yes. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  But, yeah, I mean, today was great.  I think they were just really appreciating the effort and the good tennis, you know.  Because I've had support like this, you know, last year and last couple years so... 
 
Q.  After this tournament, which Jennifer Capriati we have in tennis?  You beat Serena, you almost beat Mauresmo after last week.  Which sort of Jennifer you are now? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, the tennis, I think, just speaks for itself really.  You know, I think I could just get better and better.  And if I can just keep it going and keep working hard, you know, I still feel like I want to just really keep fighting and win, start winning these matches.  And yesterday was a big step for me  - even today, I mean, just the way, to come back after losing to her last week so easily.  So I feel like, you know, it's good things for the, you know, Grand Slam.  I mean, that's where the "real Jennifer" wants to come out anyways, you know, so... (Laughing). 
 
Q.  When you're playing a rally like that, like on the final point, where it seems to go on like forever, is it possible to describe what's going through your head in a rally like that, or, more importantly, what are you trying to keep out of your head? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Really, you're just like fighting, basically, for your life.  Basically, that's what it feels like.  And you're not just gonna, after such a long match, you know, you're just not gonna -- it wouldn't seem proper to just end it, you know, whatever, like on a double-fault.   So at that time it's almost like you're just doing everything possible to just not miss the ball.  Almost as if you had the same mentality when you're even up matchpoint, you know.  So it's just weird.  I don't know, for me, that's the way it happens.  Sometimes I almost play my best tennis when I'm down matchpoint.  
 
Q.  You had a costly double-fault  - it seemed to be costly; it wasn't.  Did the voices talk to you at all?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, that's right.  I just erased it and just went on to the next point and tried not to let the crowd, you know, kind of  -- you know, they were just like feeling for you.  Then, you know, everything can just kind of come at once, all these emotions.  I just went for it.  I just kept going for it, that's what I just kept saying to myself, so...  They weren't too bad, the voices.  
 
Q.  You had some very good volleys. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah. 
 
Q.  Seemed there were times when you hesitated.  Does that still have to become part of your nature? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  I mean, I think so.  Definitely it's not completely natural.  But most of the time when I came to the net, I won the point so...  Still, you know, that's like things to work on and still get better at.  
 
Q.  Yesterday you said something about the No. 1 in the world, which is not clear now because we don't play each other.  What is the situation, what do you think is the situation after Rome? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, it's really who's playing the best tennis on that day, is whoever's No. 1, you know. 
 
Q.  Between how many players - four, three? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I mean, I think you have Venus and Serena and Kim and Justine and Amelie.  I mean, those are the top five there, so...  You know, Lindsay is not playing either.  I mean, it's very difficult to say, so... 
 
Q.  What are your expectations going into the French? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, right now (smiling)... to just keep going and keep playing the same tennis and keep working hard and just get stronger and stronger, really.  So I'm not trying to focus on winning the matches, you know  - just one match at a time.  But just trying to focus on myself and my tennis.  
 
Q.  You were beaten so badly in Berlin.  Did that discourage you, or did it get you firing? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, it got me fired up.  I mean, it made me mad, of course, that, you know, it's like -- it shouldn't be like that.  Even though it wasn't like it was just a horrible match, you know, just the score said it like that and she played well.  But I just wasn't ready.  So I felt, you know, I learned something from it and definitely wanted to come back with a vengeance.  
 
Q.  You know the level you need to be at to win the French, having done it.  Where do you put yourself now compared to that level? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I'm pretty  -- I mean, this was really a great match.  I mean, I think, you know, I could have beaten the No. 1 player in the world - whoever the No. 1 is (laughing).  
 
Q.  Whoever shows up. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Whoever shows up, so...  I feel like I'm there, you know.  At least, you know, what I have is the experience of being in a Grand Slam and winning it.  So, you know, it's just if these players show up the way  -- playing like this, you know, I mean, I'm definitely gonna have to keep the same level or even raise it to actually win.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT