TELECOM ITALIA MASTERS
May 12, 2004
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  So how was that to settle into the Italian Open? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, no complaints.  You know, that's the kind of match that I want.  Yeah, so everything was working pretty well.  
 
Q.  Looking around at the moment, you look at the men's tournament in Hamburg, it's cold, quite slow there.  The conditions here, going into the French, how do these conditions compare to the French and your preparation? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, every year is different.  You don't know how it's gonna be.  You know, with France, it's kind of not too slow, but it's still quicker than let's say Germany or whatever.  Here, it seems pretty quick.  So, you know, that's why you get there a few days before and you just kind of adapt.  Maybe the balls are different.  But, you know, that's something that you just have to cope with and, as a tennis player, you just got to expect.  
 
Q.  In terms of a player of your caliber and with your expectations, when you look at this particular week - I know everybody wants to win - but how important is this in reference to Roland Garros? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, it's... I mean, you want to kind of get a base going.  It's more of just getting all the kinks out, basically, you know, in these kind of tournaments  - and if you're not playing 100 percent; you don't want to peak too early at these tournaments.  So, yeah, of course they'd be nice to win.  I don't think -- either way, I don't think it's like saying it's a jinx almost to win this kind of tournament, you know, or losing early, you know.  So it's just, you know, got to take it for what it is, which is just, you know, playing matches.   
 
Q.  Do you feel you're at the top of your game now?  Seemed to me you were playing fantastic today; in Berlin. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I think I'm getting there.  I'm feeling more like myself out there, you know, kind of the aggressive style that I play, and really going for my shots and moving well.  You know, but in this kind of match, played well but, you know, it's tough when you're also tested to see, you know, kind of the difference.  Just seemed like I just didn't have to do much.  But, you know, still I served well and, you know, kind of did those things, the basic things, well.  So, you know, gets tougher and tougher each match. 
 
Q.  Is there something in particular you are trying to work on, though? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Just trying to be aggressive when I can and move forward; even, you know, if I'm not going to the net, even kind of, you know, follow the shot through and to the net even if it's, whatever, a winner or not.  You know, those kind of things.  Trying to, you know, get some pace on my serve.  
 
Q.  Was it your choice to change your coach, or was it a family choice, a choice you made with your family? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, obviously, every decision I make I think comes from me, but it's a whole cooperation.  I mean, the goal is to have me playing the best tennis I can and being  -- feeling good on the road.  So they just will support me in anything that I do and whatever I choose.  
 
Q.  What exactly is the situation?  Is your father still working with you on the court, or is it just Heinz?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Right now it's just Heinz basically coming on the court, but, I mean, doesn't mean my dad can't say anything.  
 
Q.  Right. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Or, you know, obviously, he's not here so he's not saying anything, but he's definitely going to come to tournaments.  I mean, I've just been with my dad for so long that I basically know what he would say without him even being there.  So it's just basically just getting some different information maybe.  
 
Q.  Do you have other family members with you?  Your brother was here last year.
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  My mom is here.  My mom, and a fitness trainer is with me.  My brother is busy (smiling)... school.  
 
Q.  Heinz has a reputation of quite a strong work ethic, being sort of a sergeant major.  Is that something you feel you need, or is that something you take anyway, you deal with that quite happily?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think I always have a good work ethic.  And, you know, I mean, I'm doing this only for myself so it's not like, you know, I'm out there to please anybody.  So it's either I work hard, I get the results; I don't work hard, get the results.  And just maybe, you know, it's more of working hard but also in a way of even like just being disciplined as far as hitting, you know, just don't miss first balls or, you know, just kind of make every return or, you know, just the focus out there.  By yourself, sometimes you're not paying attention, but that kind of stuff carries over into matches.  So, you know, I think in the beginning  you have to find an understanding and, you know, see what works and what doesn't so... 
 
Q.  Did you get a chance to see Serena at all yesterday?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  (Shaking her head no).  No, I didn't.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT