TELECOM ITALIA MASTERS
May 10, 2004
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  What can you tell us about your memories of playing in Rome since the first time you played here?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  It was so long ago.  I just remember like these night matches that I would play here.  It was just such a wild experience for me and for the crowd, especially when I would play  -- I always played Sabatini at night here.  So that match sticks out.  Then when I played with Martina once also, and the crowd was going nuts.  You know, of course, I mean, my family and everybody was here and it was such a, you know, big deal for me to be here.  Those kind of things (smiling). 

Q.  Are you still getting the same kind of buzz, can you still get the same kind of buzz now from tennis? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I mean, in a different way.  I mean, of course you're only that age once and... But, yeah, it's still an honor for me to be here, and it's still a pleasure.  It's just amazing to me how time flies and how fast it goes by. 

Q.  Do you learn to appreciate those moments now, as you get older, in a slightly different way?  Are you getting more from tennis now than you were then? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, it's a little different.  I mean, I didn't have any experience whatsoever, and, you know, really no clue, you know, what was in store.  And now I'm here and I've made the accomplishments and I've, whatever, won three Grand Slams.  You know, I'm just kind of now, you know  -- maybe some other young player that's coming up is like kind of the same as me back then and then playing sort of like "the legend," you know.  So I can, you know, see it as that and be happy with that and proud of myself with that. 

Q.  You were talking a bit in Miami about having the hunger back after having that time away with an injury.  Is that hunger still there?  How excited are you about this time of the year with the French and Wimbledon and so on? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I'm looking forward to it.  I mean, this is the highlight, you know, of the year really.  I just feel like there's, you know  -- I'm on the rise and getting back to playing good tennis, and I just got to keep at it.  And, you know, I enjoy the challenges and look at this as another challenge.  You know, I wouldn't say it's another "comeback," because I really haven't gone anywhere (smiling).  But, you know, I'm sure people will call it again, "Can I make another comeback?"  So whatever, that's fine. 

Q.  I was late to arrive, so I apologize if you've been asked this.  But can you talk about the coaching change and how that came about. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I haven't talked about it.  This was just a few weeks old.  I think I've just been looking to just change things and kind of explore my options and, you know, just try  -- everyone has  -- there's a lot of people that know a lot about tennis and have good things to say.  And I think that, you know, I can just learn a lot and look to improve, you know, make the maybe little adjustments to really take me to the next level and to get maybe a different perspective on things.  I think Heinz  - we'll see , but I think he's a person that will be able to do that.  So we haven't made like a long-term commitment, but sort of these next run of tournaments I'm going to try.

Q.  Through to Wimbledon?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah. 

Q.  Did you get to know him much when he was with Steffi?  What did you appreciate of what he gave to Steffi's game? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I didn't know him that well.  Just a couple times when we would practice together, obviously, he was there.  And then, you know, I knew him from being around the last year or so, you know, when he was with Jelena.  He's interviewed me a couple times for Eurosport.  But, you know, I never talked to him or didn't listen to him on kind of things he would tell Steffi.  But, obviously, I think he was a good coach and, you know, a good coach is able to adapt to, you know, different players, too.  I'm not Steffi Graf anyways, for sure, and, you know...  So we're all different.  I think he was a player himself, so that makes him a little bit more understanding, I think, also, and kind of knows what's going on out there.  You know, it's not anything that's going to be too complicated, I think, you know.  It's a pretty simple game.  You know, whatever...  If he can say  -- maybe we'll just kind of "click," you know, for me, so...

Q.  Perhaps a painful moment for you was at the US Open last year.  You were two points away from winning against Justine.  Were you thinking, "There must be something extra I can add to get over things like this"?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, there's been a lot of matches like that where I've just been so close.  So it's like, you know, "What is missing?  What am I doing that's not helping me to get over that?"  And, you know, if someone can come in and just sort of like help you see things in a different way, in a perspective or, you know, just whatever, give you more confidence in those situations or just learn how to deal with it a little bit better, I mean...  Because if it's something I'm going through, a phase, just to kind of get through it, you know.  And it's hard to see things when you're close with your family, or to listen, because it's just like there's no separation.  So maybe, you know, for someone on the outside to give a clearer picture and be able to understand it better - even myself, you know.  So, you know, it's a good thing.  I think it's positive.  I've been in those matches, those close matches, and it's like if I'm that close, then, you know, I will get to the point eventually, I think, of where I'm just going to reach the full  -- the highest point from that, so...

Q.  Is this sort of a separation? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No.  I think I will, you know  -- to me, it looks more like a team, putting together a team.  And just, you know, my parents will always be there, my dad will always be there.  I mean, you know, they give me the support, the love that I need.  And, you know, it's just adding another dimension to the team just, you know, 'cause why not, you know?  If there are smart people out there that can, you know  -- you can ask for some help or a way to look at things, and better things... 

Q.  A question about Serena Williams.  For other players like you, has she lost some of the intimidation that she had at the time when she won four straight Grand Slams in a row after her recent pause, or is she still the same player? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think she's still the same player.  I mean, she still has a presence to me  - and I think among a lot of the other players, too. 

Q.  If this is the start of a mini-comeback, what did you learn last time that you can use this time? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  (Smiling).  I mean, I'm really not "coming back," you know...

Q.  Say if you were. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Oh, gosh.  I got to go (laughing).  I just, you know, I mean, use what I have learned, and that out there it's like  -- it is like another world playing out there.  It's just really  -- it's sometimes you make it more than what it actually is.  That's why maybe you feel too much pressure, nervous, and all this stuff.   And, really, like it's about you out there, and really it's just about playing tennis.  And just got to, you know, filter out all the stuff that's really not important and, you know, kind of if it weighs me down and not be able to play the best.   And just that I like coming from behind, I guess.  It's good (smiling). 

Q.  With all the injuries going on at the moment - Kim, Justine  - what's your take on the French Open and your chance at the French Open?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, it's kind of funny.  Last year, without the Williamses, you were asking me what the take was.  And now it's without the Belgian girls, "what the take is."  But they're there, so...  I think that there's a lot of good players still, I mean, that are left in the draw.  It will give someone else a chance (smiling). 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT