NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 28, 2004
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Can you just assess the match.  What do you think happened? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I just  -- I don't think I was just there today.  Just felt like I was off.  It just felt like she really couldn't miss, you know.  Just didn't play my game really.  Kind of got sucked in to, you know, her type of game and just, you know, from the beginning, as soon as I started, I missed some easy shots.  I just, I guess, got a bit negative after that.  She got confident and just from there, I just never really found my game. 

Q.  What was it about her style of play that seemed to throw you off? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, I played her many times before and I've always had a good record except the last time.  I guess now that without playing, you know, it's kind of  -- you lose that aggressiveness.  I was just not really stepping in and attacking her balls when I should have because, you know, she was kind of hitting a lot of shots that were short.  But they weren't really easy to hit, you know.  Slice.  She just mixed it up.  You know, one side was hard, the forehand, and then the other side is pretty soft.  You know, on her serve she kind of just, you know, would hit one soft and then one hard so just kind of didn't know what to expect.  But I just really just didn't play my game at all. 

Q.  Could you talk about this is a tournament that you played well at, I know you were looking forward to this year again, feeling fit and everything.  How disappointing is it? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Uhm... I mean, right now I'm just disappointed with the way I played.  I really felt like I was playing well coming into this tournament, so...

Q.  You said before the tournament that you did think it might take you a while to get back.  Are you working with the same trainer you were when you won the Aussie?  Doing something different? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, about the same. 

Q.  As the season moves along, will you be able to use this match, to see what you didn't do in this match, to help you in future tournaments?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I hope so, yeah. 

Q.  Do you kick yourself more because later in the match you were trying to get more aggressive, came to the net a couple times?  Is that a worse feeling, knowing you should have done that earlier than that? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  I mean, but, you know, that's why I started being aggressive, because it wasn't working the other way, so...  I don't know.  I mean, just in the beginning I really came out well, got 2-0 to a lead real quick, then missed a few easy shots and just, you know, just kind of like just scrambled my game around. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT