US OPEN
August 26, 2003
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  With the Williams sisters not in this tournament, how much of an opportunity is this for you? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  You know, it's disappointing not to have every top player, all the top players, playing.  As a competitor, that's what I want, is to have everyone playing.  The opportunity, I don't know.  You know, it's tough when every top player is not in the field.  And it would be the same, I think as like either Kim or Justine, let's say any of the top players wouldn't be in there; it would be the same thing.

Q.  The run in New Haven, was it nice to end up tonight real quickly?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  I mean, the first match is always tough, especially, you know, at a Grand Slam, just to get the nerves out, even though I've come off a win.  It's a night match, you know, just to get the nerves out.  It was a pretty easy match, so I couldn't really tell where I was.  But, you know, I still feel like I was hitting the ball well.  Just wasn't challenged at all.

Q.  What went well for you in New Haven?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think just my fitness was really good, I was moving really well.  I think what got me through was the first match, first two matches - especially the first one.  Just to pull a tight one out like that, it just gives me a lot of confidence.  I noticed right away in the next match that I felt more confident.  You know, also my fitness level.  I didn't come back and I wasn't tired or just fatigued physically or mentally.  That's a good sign. 

Q.  There seems to be a big momentum change since Roland Garros.  Justine was in here earlier, Clijsters.  First half of this year was all about the sisters, now it's Belgians, talk of you again after a victory.  Do you feel there has been a momentum shift on the tour?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Really, you know, I'm not even just thinking about who is talking about who, all this stuff.  I'm really not paying attention to it.  I mean, you see there are other improvements with the other players.  Just there's a little more depth.  You know, just everyone seems to be playing a little bit better this year. 

Q.  Quick as the match was, you showed quite a bit of confidence.  Are you feeling as confident as you have been in a while, because it's been a while since you had a victory?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  You know, regardless if I won or not, I think I was just feeling well.  Really hadn't been playing bad the last few months, you know.  I think I was just kind of getting back to where I was, you know, when I had the really good results.  You know, when I feel good physically and mentally, it's amazing how things turn around in my game for me.  I really just feel the ball and I feel more confident.

Q.  Is your shoulder a factor still?  Do you still feel it?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, no.  Knock on wood.  I mean, I haven't felt pain in a long time.  I mean, it gets stiff, and I really have to take care of it and work on it.  But nothing that's really painful. 

Q.  Is your game to the point where you feel it's as good as it was when you won the Australian and the French?  Is it at that level right now?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, I think it's  -- you always, as time goes on, just evolve in different ways as a player.  You know, maybe I'm a little bit different player now.  Maybe I'm more aggressive.  I think I'm serving better than I was back then.  So, you know, it's different.  It's kind of how the game is going, how you have to play the game, the players that are in it.  That's how you just kind of adapt your game.  And I think, you know, maybe experience.  I'm almost playing better, I think, now.

Q.  How much does it mean to you to finish your career with an Open title?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, it would be great.  But, I mean, it's not the thing that's going to make me or break me.  You know, I mean, it would be wonderful just to win a Grand Slam in your home country - any Grand Slam for that matter.  If I could get one more, that would be great.  I'm not going to emphasize my whole career, my whole life, on whether I win it or not. 

Q.  Still do you feel like your chances are as good this year, given how you feel about your game, coming off a win, the openness of the field?  Do you feel like your chances are as good as they've ever been this year?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  I mean, I just  -- weather, you know, the Williamses are here or not, I always feel like I'm confident and have a chance to win, you know.  You know, I think for all the players, they're probably feeling the same way.  Like whoever's going to take this title there's going to be an asterisk next to it saying, "Oh, but the Williams sisters weren't here."  You know, it's still a lot of depth.  I think it's still going to be a very difficult tournament to win.

Q.  You'll take the asterisk, even if it comes?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  No one's going to remember 10 years from now, that's for sure (smiling).

Q.  Inside your own thoughts, do you get a little bit of a feeling, "Let's go, there's a bit of an opening here"?  Does it give you an extra buzz?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No.

Q.  Talk about the dress.  Was it fun to go out there?  Did you help in the design? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I didn't help in the design.  But when I saw it, I thought it was great.  It was just very flairy but classy at the same time.  When I saw the shoes, I mean, I thought that was great, too, the matching shoes.  I don't know, hopefully people liked it.  I mean, everyone in my family, whatever, they all liked it.  I wouldn't wear it if I didn't think it was good, so... 

Q.  How would you describe this look?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Star spangled Jennifer.  I don't know (laughter). 

Q.  Are you going to be wearing it throughout the tournament?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No.  I'm still going to have the US Open collection to wear also.  Just kind of depends what night I want to wear it. 

Q.  Sometimes during Slams you do watch TV.  Did you see any of the Pete ceremony last night?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I watched all of it. 

Q.  What were your thoughts to see the American tennis community gather around? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think the whole ceremony was amazing and just wonderful and really special.  You know, he deserved it.  But it was sad, too.  You know, it's kind of sad watching it.  Really, it's the end.  You know, I'm going to miss watching him play.

Q.  Did you ever have any conversations with Pete over the years?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, not really, no. 

Q.  What would you do to get his serve?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  For his serve? 

Q.  Yes.  Would you kill for his serve?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Probably (laughter). 

Q.  You wouldn't kill a tennis writer, though? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Don't put ideas in my head (smiling). 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT