PILOT PEN TENNIS
August 22, 2003
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  No heat, only half a match tonight?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah. 

Q.  Got to like that. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Nice change (smiling).

Q.  Did you feel perhaps there was something wrong with her during the match?  Did you sense anything?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, I had no idea really.  I guess I was just so concentrated on myself and my own game, I didn't notice what was going on with her. 

Q.  Great serving, great forehand. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  I was able to hold on to my serve.  There was a couple times where I could have got broken and lost the lead there, but I held on.  I felt like I was really moving well.  I felt light out there.  I just felt on on my shots.  You know, I was even aggressive at the net certain points.  You know, I had a strategy to go out there and just try to move her around, you know, not hit in the same spot, just kind of try to make her tired.  But it helps when you're playing well yourself, then you can do that. 

Q.  When you're playing like that, do you feel hike you're pretty tough to beat by anybody?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I mean, that's, you know, just the confidence that I have.  You know, I definitely have to say that I do feel that.  I feel like the other one has to be playing also pretty well or just as well to beat me.  I mean, it's a good feeling to have.  I just try to really stay in the moment and stay in that sort of zone, not, you know, lose focus at all.

Q.  You said when you woke up this morning you were feeling a little sore.  Didn't show at all. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I know.  Well, I didn't practice that long.  I really, you know, had a pretty long nap, just kind of really stretched out a lot.  You know, I'm pretty happy that I came out and felt that way because I didn't know how I was going to feel.

Q.  Do you feel you're ahead of where you thought you might be as far as the level you're playing at this point?  Did you think you could come back this early and play as crisply as you have?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  You know, I'd been practicing well and I'd been feeling well.  I'd been working really hard.  It's a different situation when you come into a match, you get actually, you know, into a real match.  You know, I wasn't sure, you know, if I was going to be real rusty or whatever.  Just, you know, not as confident.  But, you know, so I'm a little surprised.  I think really just getting through that first helped a lot with my confidence.  You know, it's something that I'm just going out there and I'm not really thinking about what I have to do too much.  I just feel like, you know, I'm on and just have a good rhythm out there. 

Q.  How about Lindsay, facing her?  You haven't had the greatest success against her in the match-ups during your career.  What's been missing when you played her in the past?  What do you need to do tomorrow to beat her?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, she just hits so big off the ground.  Her groundstrokes are one of the best in the women's game.  You know, she's also got a great serve.  So, you know, it's a quick turnaround to come back tomorrow and play at 12.  I'm fortunate that it wasn't too long of a match tonight.  You know, so hopefully I'll be ready.  I think I just have to be moving well, which I think I am, you know, try to move her a lot.  I know it's going to be hot.  So hopefully, you know, I can use that to my advantage a little bit.  You know, just play like I did tonight. 

Q.  Did you hear about Venus Williams has withdrawn from The Open?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I did.

Q.  Does it matter to you at all? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, not really.  I mean, you know, it opens up -- you know, it's the most open Grand Slam there has been in a while.  But, you know, it's the same I think as any of the top players would be out.  You know, same thing if Kim was out or Justine or whatever.  You know, I'm just going to try to look at it match by match, take each round at a time, you know, go from there, not look ahead into the draw anyways. 

Q.  Being from Florida, weather like this, the weather you played in this week, do you go out there thinking you might have a mental edge on your opponent?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, if my opponent is not really used to these conditions, maybe a little bit, because they can be really brutal.  You know, I've just been training in that kind of heat all my life.  You know, I actually enjoy it when it's that hot.  I mean, I don't enjoy it; it just doesn't bother me as much.  I've never cramped or had anything like that, any serious problems like that.  So, you know, if it helps, it helps.  I mean, maybe I do have a little advantage in that way. 

Q.  Do you think that the kind of power game that the Williams sisters play opens them up to more injuries?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, not at all.  Because, I mean, I think I have a power game, and I don't think I'm open to more injuries because of that.  So, no. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT