WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2003
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  You seemed to be playing with a great deal of conviction at the end.  It seemed as though you had a surge of new belief.  Can you talk us through that phase of the game when you came back into it very well. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I tried to just draw in what in the first set, how I was playing.  I knew that I could get control back.  I could get, you know, control again of the match.  And, you know, I was just saying to myself, "This is, you know, Wimbledon, quarterfinals.  I've been playing a great match.  I'm just gonna give it my all, right here."  And, you know, the second set went by and got a little bit of a rest there, you know, the last game or two.  So I just came back with a little more energy.  I was just trying my hardest just to  -- just to break her back, so...

Q.  You had your chances.  Will you look back on this as one that you maybe should have won? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  You know, I think she really played well, and, you know, there's a lot that I couldn't do.  I mean, she was just serving  -- I got to give her all the credit for that.  I think she had to play her best tennis there to raise her game completely to beat me, because, you know, I don't think I really gave her the match.  You know, I held on to my serve great, except in the third set.  And, you know, she had to step it up and elevate her game, I feel.  And I was right there with her, except, you know, she just served well, especially on the ad side when I would have the breakpoints. 

Q.  It had to take Serena to get you out of this tournament. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Sorry? 

Q.  It had to be Serena to eliminate you from this tournament.  How do you fancy your chances from other players?  It didn't happen, but...

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, everyone's different to play against.  But, you know, I think the way I played today, I don't think anyone could have beat me.  I mean, I felt like that.  Even now, coming off the court, I feel like the only reason is just because, you know, she served the way she did, and no one else serves like that.  You know, couple serves 119 miles an hour.  So, you know, no one else could do that.  I felt like I would have been able to  -- the tennis I played today, I would have been able to really win and conquer, you know, in the match, and especially from the baseline. 

Q.  Do you think anyone can stop her winning again? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  You know, it's  -- I think there's some players that can.  I don't know, you know, Henin, obviously.  I mean, on grass it's tough because the serve is a little bit harder to return, especially out wide.  You know, she plays like she did today, and especially the way she served, I think it would be pretty hard for anyone to beat her. 

Q.  Is there an element of fun for that, for you out there?  When you're hitting the ball that hard and she's returning it that hard and you're going at it the way you were for the first set and third set for sure? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  Yeah, I mean, I think I smiled out there a couple times 'cause it was just  -- it was just funny, what was going on out there.  And, yeah, I'm really  -- I mean, I'm disappointed, but I'm not that upset.  I know I played well and I gave it my best.  You know, that's why she's No. 1.  You know, it's a little frustrating just on her serve.  That's really the only difference.  But, you know, I just got to keep working harder and working to break that and see what I could do to stop that.  But, yeah, I mean, I'm very optimistic after this match today. 

Q.  What do you think you can do in order to get back into Slam finals? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, I just  -- I think I just got to keep doing what I'm doing, and, I mean, if it happens, it happens.  If not, I know I'm doing my best and it's just there's, you know, a lot of great players out there.   You know, I feel my tennis definitely is right up there and definitely can be at the top.  And winning Grand Slams, I mean, you just  -- you have to be in the right state of mind, the right physical shape.  And, you know, I still think I can improve on different things.  You know, hopefully, I mean, that will be the difference.  But we just have to see.  I'll just keep trying.

Q.  You've had a bunch of matches where you lost the first set to Serena  -- pardon me, where you've won the first set and then lost the match.  Could you comment on that.

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I've commented on it every single time (laughing), because I get asked the same question every single time.  You know, maybe I just let up a little bit in the second set.  But, you know, got a little bit tired there because she started moving me around.  And after not playing really difficult matches, and when all of a sudden, you're just having to run side to side, of course you're not used to it, so it's gonna take the wind out of you a little bit.  I just think I didn't give it to her, though.  She really had to elevate her game.  And so that's why I give her all the credit for doing that, and, you know, just look forward to the next time.  Just try again.  That's what it's all about. 

Q.  Of all the players over your career, who do you consider the best player you've ever played against?  Is there any one? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, that's tough to say.  Just, like, an all-around great tennis player, I'd have to say maybe Steffi is one of them, and even Hingis.  I have a lot of respect for her, so...

Q.  Would you put Serena in that class yet, or is it  -- you're still playing her, so it's a little bit different?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, it's a little bit difficult because, you know, I don't think there's much difference.  I think it's just how big her serve is, is what gets her out of a lot of trouble and what makes her win a lot of these matches.  So as far as if you take away that, just from baseline to baseline, I think, you know, I've  -- I'm definitely up there.  There's been others, maybe, that are just  -- well, for sure that are, I think, better in that department.

Q.  There were some tremendous rallies today, particularly one in the second set which I think she won.  Was there any point in the game where you, you know, having made such a great start, you felt  it would be going away from you, that depressing thought?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, not really, no.  I felt that, of course, I know she's gonna play great points and we're gonna have great rallies like that, but I won some of them, too.  So it wasn't just, like, yeah, one-sided.

Q.  No big punches?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, because she would  -- the only thing is the serve, and then, you know, she came up with some big forehands.  But I think I came right back at her with some other great shots.  And, you know, that she didn't expect.  I don't know, maybe by now she expects, just like I expected, to be some great, great rallies and some great, you know...

Q.  Do you take anything new out of today's game relative to other matches that have followed this pattern?  Did you feel you got a bit closer, more into it today in some ways?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I would say this is the closest I've been to beating her and really felt like, you know, I should have won, and, you know, that I was playing better today. 

Q.  I was a little confused by your response to an earlier question.  You are saying that Steffi and Martina are of a slightly different level than Serena? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, no, I mean, it's just  -- it's hard, like, to say because, you know, she's still playing.  So if you just looked back in the history, I think she's, you know, got a lot more tennis to play and then probably, you know, over time, I mean, we'll see.  I mean, she doesn't have to prove much more, but it's different because you can  -- just she's got so much strength, too, and that's how she wins a lot, is her strength and her serve.  But as far as, you know, if you took away all that, just baseline to baseline, just as far as technique-wise and all that, I think, you know, Steffi was one of the best, and Martina. 

Q.  Who is your favorite to win this tournament? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I don't know.  Who's in it now? 

Q.  Who's your favorite to win it now? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I really don't know.  I mean, I really haven't been watching that much of the other girls, and really, it's very up in the air.  You never know what could happen from this point on, so...

Q.  You had a hell of a lot of supporters out there, including a rather famous actor.  What's going on there?  Is he a new member of your fan club?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, he's just a friend. 

Q.  Good supporter to have, I'm not knocking it. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I know.  I know (smiling).  No, he's been great.  I think he jumped out of his seat a few times quite high, there.

Q.  Have you been practicing with him?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No.  No, no, no.  My confidence, I don't want it to get down, playing with him, so... (Laughter). 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT