WIMBLEDON
June 26, 2003
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Showing off with your serve today?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Again?  Yeah, I felt I kept the momentum going today.  I served well when I needed to.  I really was having  -- like a breakpoint down, hit a big serve, you know, makes things a little bit easier when you can come up with big serves.  It just adds a whole 'nother level.  You know, it was tough conditions.  You know, No.  2 court, I haven't played on there in a long time.  A little bit windy, but I was able to concentrate the whole match. 

Q.  You mentioned Court  2.  Tell us what makes that place unique compared to the other courts?  What do you dread about some courts here; what do you like about some? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  The only thing I would dread is just if it's a noisy court, if there's a lot of people kind of walking around.  But this is a nice atmosphere, that court.  It's cozy.  It's not so big.  But I like it better than like the No.  18 court, because there's a little more room to move also.  But I guess over the years it's been called the Graveyard Court.  I don't really think about that.  I don't believe in that, so... 

Q.  How do you relax after matches?  Do you go out in the village and eat?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, I just have to get the press over with, then just basically go in the players' lounge.  I can basically, yeah, go back to my house and just relax.  I'm not playing doubles, so it's good. 

Q.  Not going to see any shows in London or anything like that?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I mean, I've gone to one.  But so far, I mean, I haven't really been into London.  It's kind of far away, I mean, with the traffic and everything.  It's not too often you go out there. 

Q.  Have you ever been around on the Underground in the London?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  You mean the subway? 

Q.  Yeah, the subway. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, I haven't. 

Q.  Would you be afraid of being recognized and sort of bothered or you just haven't bothered to do that?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I just haven't needed to do that.  But I just think I would just get totally lost, unless I was with someone who knew where they were going.  No, it wouldn't bother me.  Obviously, I wouldn't go alone. 

Q.  What is the atmosphere like in the women's dressing room?  There's been a couple of incidents over the last few days which have been quite striking.  One was that Ashley Harkleroad commented a lot of the girls were annoyed by the noises that Sharapova made on court.  The other was Daniela Hantuchova who was quite upset during her match.  Basically is there a camaraderie in the women's dressing room?  Do they rally around each other or does everyone just do their own thing?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think mostly everyone does their own thing.  I'm not going to commentate on what goes on.

Q.  Not the specifics, but just the actual atmosphere. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, it's really our own place to just get away and relax.  Some people like to just talk with each other, and some people just don't like to be bothered or just want to go in there and be by themselves.  That's all I'm going to say.

Q.  What camp are you in?  Do you like to go in and be by yourself?  You would be considered one of the senior people on the tour now, wouldn't you?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I guess, yeah (smiling).  I'm in the top-seeded locker room, so it's very nice.  It's not like your average locker room.  You know, there's like nice couches.  I mean, the ladies that work in there, you have like teas, little biscuits, and stuff like that.  It's a nice place to be, so I don't mind going in there.

Q.  Younger girls in that dressing room as well?  I don't know how it works. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  It's the top-seeded players.

Q.  Do they still run a bath for you there like they used to?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  If you ask, I guess, yeah.

Q.  Which show did you see in London?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Can we talk about tennis? 

Q.  Your eyesight, is there any residue at all from your surgery or is it completely fixed and fine?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  It's fine, completely fine, all healed.

Q.  Do you notice a marked difference now that it's completely healed from what it was before?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Actually, they don't get as irritated, yeah, especially at night, and as dry.  It's definitely better.  And they look a lot better, too.  Yeah, I still want to be careful with the bright sunlight.  Maybe that's the only thing, if it's really bright, I just have to wear my sunglasses, but I should anyway as a precaution.

Q.  When you say they look a lot better, were they discolored, red all the time?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, they were just red all the time.  I would be asked questions all the time, even in here, like why my eyes are always so red. 

Q.  Do you think another test will come when you have to play under the lights in the States?  You haven't done that in quite a while. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, I haven't.  I did in Dubai and Miami.  Really, if there's anything to get better, they will just keep getting better, yeah.  I'm not really going to be worried as much playing at night.

Q.  What kind of surgery?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I had pterygiums removed.

Q.  What are those?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  They're like sunspots that are from the sun.

Q.  Are they from like the inner point to the iris?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  (Nodding head.)

Q.  Do you think this tournament treats players different than the other Grand Slams do?  Do you feel more special because they serve tea in the locker rooms and things like that?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Not really.  It's just they like to have their traditions here.  I think, you know, there's just so much history behind it.  You know, try to maybe make it a more classy event.  But, you know, that's the only part of it.  I think at all the Grand Slams, I mean, they're very good to the players, and especially in the locker rooms, you know, around the grounds and stuff.  Although the tickets, it's pretty hard to still get tickets, even for players.  They're not too nice about that.

Q.  The top 16 seeds have that locker room or are there more than that? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Aren't there 32 seeds?  I'm not sure.  I know it's singles and doubles, too.

Q.  Do you miss the bowing or are you happy to see that gone?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I thought I saw that yesterday.

Q.  That somebody did it?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  Like I think it was Roddick and Rusedski. 

Q.  Roddick did it. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Roddick did it.  Is it your choice? 

Q.  I think it's optional now. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Oh, it's optional? 

Q.  Yeah. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I don't know.  It's kind of different.  It's kind of cool that you're like playing in front of Royalty, so I don't know.  I don't mind it either way.

Q.  Were you one of the people who actually practiced the curtsy prior to coming here, or once you got here, to get it right, the first time?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think just before I went out on the court, they would show you how to do it.  There would be a guy showing you how to do it.

Q.  Even in the locker room?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, the waiting room right before you go out and walk onto Centre Court.

Q.  Was the guy wearing a dress?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  He was wearing pants.

Q.  When was the first time you played on Centre Court here?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Back the first year I played here  - I don't know  - '90, was it?  I don't know. 

Q.  Did you pick up the curtseying pretty quickly, you figured out where to put your feet? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  Really, it's not that difficult.

Q.  Some players were saying they had little bit of difficulty. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think you're more nervous than anything.  You don't want to mess up.  Maybe you do it the wrong way, the wrong leg.  I don't think they would really care much anyways.  At least you're trying. 

Q.  When you came on the scene at 13, obviously you were promoted, there was lots of excitement about you.  Certainly in your time you've seen a lot of those other young players come out at a very young age.  Do you feel like the tour has learned its lessons and is doing things in a more positive way or do you feel they're really the same type of situations and they could do things better?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  It's hard to say.  I mean, I've always said everyone's an individual and everyone copes with it differently.  I don't think it's the tour's responsibility for the well-being, psychological well-being.  They're just the tour.  You're basically, I think, on your own, playing for yourself anyways.  So it's just basically your support group.  You know, seems like there's so many youngsters now anyways.  Not everyone makes it.  There's those special few out there.  You know, it's just so few of those special ones that, you know, you can't just like say the same rules for everyone. 

Q.  For the young girls who do come out, do you have any words of advice?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, uhm, you know, it's like I haven't really seen anybody that's been in my shoes.  I mean, maybe the closest one would be Martina.  Still a little bit different in a way.  She was still a little bit older, I think.  But, yeah, I mean, I would  -- if anyone ever wanted to come and talk to me, I definitely would.  I would offer my advice.  What I would say was just to  -- you know, it's only a game, and you can't let it influence the person you are and let it make you or break you basically.  You know, there's just going to be a lot of talk, the way the press is, you know, all the attention and the pressure and expectations, you know, it's going to be difficult.  But it's only a part of your life, and this part, and don't let it, you know, destroy you and destroy who you are as a person. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT