TELECOM ITALIA MASTERS
May 16, 2003
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Tough match, very tough physically.  Would you have gone a third just as strongly?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Oh, yeah.  If I would have gotten into the third set, I think I would have just gotten stronger because, you know, I would have had the momentum, you know, from the second and I just would have been so pumped up, I think, from coming back and winning the second. 

Q.  It's been so close the last three matches you played her.  What is the difference? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I think she's played really well against me.  You know, she always comes out to play pretty strong.  You know, in the US Open I was serving for the match and just, you know...  I've just got to do more on those opportunities and not, you know, let her dictate and come out from the start.  I tried today, but she got off to a better start.  I mean, you know, I was like down 3-love so quickly.  So I definitely could have done things a little bit differently  - been more aggressive which, you know, worked for me a couple times in the match, going to the net, just stepping up to the ball. 

Q.  Were you nervous in the second set, especially in the second set? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, at the end in the tiebreak maybe we both were a little bit tentative, a little bit shakier than most of the time.  But, no, not really.  I mean, of course I think there was a lot of tension in the match. 

Q.  Were you bothered by the crowd? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No. 

Q.  Do you feel extra pressure playing in Italy because you're considered half Italian or something like that, or just like another place?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  It's just like another place.  You know, maybe in the first set more than anything I maybe was a little bit tentative.  But then, you know, I got myself fired up and, you know, I got myself angry so I would just try to play with more force that way.  But, no, the crowd didn't bother me. 

Q.  I'm not speaking about today's match; generally speaking. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No. 

Q.  You're one of the few players who has no fear of the Williams sisters and doesn't think it's just their ball game now.  Do you think that's prevalent among many players? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  I think among other top players, for sure, and I think everyone's getting over it a little bit now, so...  You know, maybe more players think that when they go out there, they cannot win, but, you know, we'll have a chance.

Q.  You think you can win when you go out there, don't you?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, of course. 

Q.  You had a chance to look at Pennetta.  Do you think she can have a good career? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I watched her play a little bit the other day.  I think she has a nice game.  She's talented.  I've never seen her before, but I think with the right coaching she could do well. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT