TELECOM ITALIA MASTERS
May 15, 2003
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Jennifer, how well do you think you are hitting the ball right now? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I'm pleased with the way I'm playing.  Of course I feel like I can always play a little better, but I play some really good moments and then some moments maybe, you know, not as good as I'd like, hitting the ball a little bit short.  But, otherwise, I feel like I'm doing everything, playing good clay court tennis, just moving the ball around.  
 
Q.  She hits hard as well.  Do you think it was an interesting match for you?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, she played really well I thought.  It was difficult for me especially in the first set, I couldn't break her serve.  I think she has a lot of potential with her serve, of course.  I mean, she has a great service.  So I was just  -- had to hang in there.  Yeah, she was hitting the ball hard so, you know, I had to handle the pace pretty well.  It was a different kind of match for me because I hadn't played that kind of tennis on clay yet, someone just hitting hard so - mostly just clay courters.  
 
Q.  Have you been working hard before coming over to Europe? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yes.  Yeah, as usual.  But I think everything is just starting to show a little bit more for me, where I can feel it a little bit more.  Because, you know, it just doesn't come all of a sudden, you know, after training one, two weeks.  It takes a few months I think.  So I started after January and, I mean, I still even think I can do a little better.  But, yeah, I was training hard before here.  
 
Q.  Last year you beat Mauresmo I think in the quarters, three sets.  In the meantime, she beat you a couple times.  Are you looking forward to playing her again?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, yeah.  I think it will be an interesting match.  First, of course, she's got to win now.  But, you know, it's a new match, and I just start from the beginning.  I'm not going to have it in my head  - or try not to think that she beat me the last few times.  I will think of the time I beat her here last year, so... You know, I've just got to play my game and concentrate on the ball and not the opponent.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT