TELECOM ITALIA MASTERS
May 14, 2003
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Always good to get the first match under your belt on the way to a winning start?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Absolutely, especially against someone who you think you're going to have a tough match against and who's been playing well.  Yeah, to get the first match out of the way in a new tournament, new atmosphere, new court...It's always a little different everywhere you go.  I think I played pretty well. 

Q.  What is the aspect of your game which satisfies you most? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  In this match? 

Q.  Yes. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think I served pretty well.  I didn't give up too many double-faults.  Also, I was aggressive when I needed to be, especially on the forehand.  I just was consistent enough and basically just won the last point so...

Q.  Obviously, you're in Rome.  It seems like the player to beat is Serena Williams at the moment.  If you were to play against her, how do you think you would face this match?  What do you think would give her difficulty? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think I have a few matches before that I need to concentrate on first. 

Q.  You don't want to speculate, hypothetically? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No. 

Q.  For those of us who were here last week watching the men, how did you play in Berlin?  How do you feel you did?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I played really well, you know .  First red clay tournament, first few matches, I think I played really well.  Everything, you know, was going as I planned.  The last match even against Kim I played well  - maybe not as good as I had been the previous matches, but definitely it was a good experience for me to start off that way and get some confidence on the clay. 

Q.  How much better a player is she since your tremendous struggle in the French final, do you think? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think she's just playing with a lot more confidence these days, and she's definitely more consistent, not as erratic as she used to be.  She's definitely improved there.  You know, she's always been quick, getting a lot of balls back.  Maybe now she seems like even a bigger wall sometimes so...

Q.  How does the heat compare here to, say, an Australian Open when you had that long match?  Is it hotter or worse? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I don't think anything can match that type of heat that's like in Australia.  Even though it's, like, not very humid, it's just  -- I mean, you just can't even breathe in that kind of heat.  Here is more like it's hot, but it's not that hot, you know (smiling).  You can get used to it. 

Q.  We've seen your father.  How is your relationship?  A relationship with a father and a player normally ends up with quarrels.  Yours seems to be working quite well.  How is it? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think we have a good relationship.  He gives me my space when I need it and he's a good support.  He's just there to help me, and that's it.  You know, if it's not working out  -- I mean, he's there for me, so he's there to help me.  He's not someone who's, you know, trying to hurt me.  I have no reason to be in conflict with him. 

Q.  What do you like about this tournament and Rome? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Probably the food is good here (smiling), the shopping.  I love, you know, just the buildings, the way everything -- the architecture, they're so old and have so much history.  Very different.  It's a beautiful city.  The way they drive here (smiling)...

Q.  Is this a part of the year you enjoy?  The fact that you've got two Grand Slams coming up, back-to-back more or less, is this a good time for you to focus and really get into tennis?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I'd have to agree with that because the more time that kind of elapses, you know, you get kind of bored with just training all the time.  And, you know, you're playing to compete, you're practicing to compete.  That's where the real drive comes and, you know, the motivation.  That's what we live for.  So I look forward to this time because it's maybe all together, but it's one after the other and you have a real sense of purpose.

Q.  Would you like more crowd support? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think plenty will come later in the matches in the week.  It's enough.  I mean, there is still quite a good enough crowd.  To me, I am just trying to stay focused on the match and it doesn't matter how many people are there. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT