NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 29, 2003
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  You said yesterday you had to come out and try to play a perfect match.  That first set you only had three unforced errors.  Can you talk about your start, that first set in particular?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I came out playing great, just moving the ball around, not making many errors, going for my shots.  And I returned well, served well.  So, yeah, that was a great first set for me.  And, you know, for some reason, I guess instead of keeping up that kind of level or that kind of game, I just back away instead of move up.  So I don't know if it's not a matter of  -- if it's a matter of me not believing that I can do it consistently, you know, for whatever it takes, two in a row, two sets in a row or whatever.  You know, then she just got back into a good rhythm and, you know, she started playing a lot better.  You know, just got on the run a lot.  It was a tough match. 

Q.  Did you get tired at all in the third set? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I have to say that I did.  It was pretty hot out there.  You know, maybe just the week took its toll on me a little bit.  So, you know, I didn't rest as well as I would have liked to last night.  I got a little tired.  But, you know, it's tough chasing down her balls.  It's pretty hot. 

Q.  Did that questionable call at 15-40 in the second set, was that a turning point in the match? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I don't know.  It's tough to say.  You don't know what would happen if it would just go for you instead of against you.  But you can't just look at one point like that, and so I don't think so. 

Q.  Do you feel like physically you're just her equal and that right now, it's just, like you said, a matter of you having the  -- being able to make that mental breakthrough? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, definitely.  I mean, tennis-wise, I definitely can hang with her and, you know, match her shot for shot, definitely.  So, I mean, obviously, she's got a bigger serve.  But, you know, that doesn't affect me too much.  So it's just a matter of still getting in a little better shape and peaking.  But I think I'm definitely on the way up and, you know, hopefully I'll just get better and better.

Q.  There was a pretty active crowd out there today.  Did they help you? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, they were pretty good.  Quiet in between the points, for the most part.  You know, they were into it.  I guess that I just try to shut them out anyway, so...

Q.  You said you didn't get enough rest last night as you wanted to.  Were you restless?  Or did you try to sleep and you couldn't?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, a little bit of that.  Kind of had a racy mind.

Q.  What were you thinking about; this match? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, yeah.  One of the things, yeah. 

Q.  You said you try to shut the crowd out.  When someone yelled, "Jennifer, get mad," do you hear that?  

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I thought that was kind of funny, so...

Q.  How did you feel right before the 5-4 game in the second set?  At that point, did you feel there was a good chance you could pull it out?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, definitely.  You know, I just thought serve as well as I did to win the set in the first.  So, you know, it's tough.  It's hard to explain, you know.  When you're playing the points, there's just high anxiety and if you're off by a little bit, and just who takes control of the point first and, you know, she played tough.  I had my chances.  You know, I can look back now and say, "Oh, what would I have done differently?"  But when you're actually in the match, it's a tough scenario to try and plan out.

Q.  You must have felt good in the second set, though, when you were down and came back. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, definitely.  That's why, you know, I was able to break her a few times to get that back.  So her serve doesn't bother me too much.  So, you know, that was just a key game there that, you know, I'll just keep working on my serve, keep working on the mental part and just  -- so when I just get up there, I'm just strong as a nail.  So there's no room to get broken or there's no room for error or whatever.

Q.  How do you feel going into the clay court season?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I feel good.  I'm happy about getting on the clay.  I think it's going to be a little bit easier on the body.  I've always enjoyed playing on clay court, so I think I can adapt my game to it.  I'll have to get in better shape.  Just by playing on the clay, you just automatically get in better shape anyway.

Q.  Last couple of weeks give you extra confidence going in? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, yeah.  I've come off a good winning streak the last couple weeks and I'm motivated to definitely play on the clay.  It will be a nice change anyways. 

Q.  You mentioned a couple times about getting in better shape and your fitness.  Had you dropped off fitness-wise?  Do you feel you had reached a peak and now you've dropped?  Where do you feel you are with your fitness? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think I'm getting back to that peak. 

Q.  When did it fall off? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I took a lot of time off for my eye surgery, and before, in December, end of November and December. 

Q.  Can you talk about Serena's game?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, yeah, she goes for it.  You're going to make a lot of errors, but you're going to make a lot of winners, too.  You know, I think she played well, but I definitely  -- I could have done things differently.  I played well in the first set, but I don't think I played my best tennis in the second set and from there on.  You know, so it's just... That's it (smiling).

Q.  How did you feel about your movement?  It seemed like you were able to get to all of her balls?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  Definitely, I don't have a problem with my speed.  It's just endurance and not getting that tired feeling, which I still think, you know, there's room for improvement on that.  You know, it's tough conditions.  You know, maybe if I would play a little different and move closer to the baseline, you know, maybe I wouldn't get on the run so much.  So it's a combination of things. 

Q.  I have one question I'd like to ask.  I watched several Grand Slams.  What do you think should be done about spectators when they scream out?  Should they be exited immediately?  What would you like to see be done about that? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think every time a cell phone rings, they should take them out, but...  (Laughing).  Yeah, I mean, if they do it once, usually, it doesn't really happen a lot, like that one point when somebody yelled out like that.  So, I mean, that doesn't happen too much.  If it kept happening, I think they would probably try to get the person out.  But I think one thing that should be done is on the umpire's chair, they should definitely have like a TV, like a little monitor there, so you can see the replays of the points of the line calls.  Just like you're watching it at home on TV.  I don't understand why they don't do that; just have a replay there, but that's my say. 

Q.  You turn 27 today.  I think you and Lindsay are probably the oldest in the Top 10 by a few years. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, I think Seles is older. 

Q.  Is she still in the Top 10?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I think so. 

Q.  I'm wondering if a loss like this, it gives you more perspective, having been around as long as you have? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, some days I think, you know, I'm getting older, like, "How long am I going to be playing?  Is it the end of my time?"  But then, you know, I realize it's just  -- I mean, it's just in your mind.  I can keep playing as long as I want.  I think physically, I mean, if you talk to anyone who knows about training or whatever, that a woman reaches her peak anyways around this time, and physically, and even into the 30s.  So I shouldn't have any worries about that.  You know, now it's just a matter of just having fun and going with it, and of course, I'm taking it seriously.  I mean, I'm a competitor and I love to compete.  But, you know, I try not to think about the age and how old I am.  I still feel like sometimes I'm 14 anyway, so...  Doesn't matter. 

Q.  Would you ever consider developing your approach and volley game to be a player like Serena Williams? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, well, I wouldn't be like her then if she doesn't come to net that much. 

Q.  She could have come in and she didn't.  If you would do that, I think that would give you an edge. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I think you're right about that, for sure.  But it's kind of hard to, when you're so used to playing a certain kind of game, just get out of your element.  That's why, in the early matches, I think you should do it more often, so you get that confidence.  But, I mean, you know, like her, whoever, me, when we're just good off the baseline, it's like  -- it's pretty hard when you think you're going to get passed, so...


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT