US OPEN
September 10, 2004
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Is there any way to put it into words how you feel? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Uhm, not really.  I mean, especially right now.  You know, so soon after the match, it's kind of hard to really grasp kind of what happened out there. 

Q.  After the first set, battling back to the second, did you envision a third set being so close and so hard?  To me, it was like a championship fight out there.  You both did a great job battling.  How did you feel after going through all of that? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  You mean after the match, like...? 

Q.  Just after the match.  It was a great tennis match. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, well, for the conditions I guess it was okay.  I mean, really, that's got to be the hardest conditions to play in.  You can tell that, you know, both of us were probably not able to play our tennis.  She played the conditions better than me, you know.  She was smart with the wind.  No, I just, you know, I feel I got back into it.  I just was like, you know, I knew she was a fighter.  I knew she was not gonna give it up.  She's not there in the semis for nothing.  But the whole time, you know, I had confidence in myself that, you know, I thought I was gonna win, you know.  I felt like, you know, when I came back, I felt like I had the edge.  So, you know, it was just a matter of a few points here and there.  You know, I could think back all I want, you know, but it doesn't change the reality, so...

Q.  First set, just getting used to the conditions, were you surprised by how strong the wind was?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I mean, you know, it was like I'd been used to kind of playing at night.  Then to come out in the day match, you know, then it was really, really more gusty there than when I was even practicing.  So, you know, and then she came out playing, you know, better than me in the first set.  You know, I wasn't, I guess, warmed up yet, you know.  And so I was able to just work my way back into it. 

Q.  What was going through your mind as that set was unfolding?  That's obviously uncharacteristic of your style of tennis. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  What? 

Q.  Were you thinking, "Get it over with"? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  What's uncharacteristic? 

Q.  Just the first set.  Not being able to...

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Oh, well, I mean, it's two out of three sets.  That's why you don't give up after the first one.  You know, you just have to adjust, make the adjustments, because, I mean, there's obviously things you can't control.  You can't control your opponent.  You can't control Mother Nature, you know. I was just thinking, "Play the wind the best you can." And, I mean, I guess I waited for her maybe to make a few more errors.  I mean, I can't really -- I don't know. I was just basically just trying my hardest just to try to win the points, whichever -- any way I could, you know. 

Q.  Did you consider doing more chipping and charging against her second serve? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, no.  I mean, that's not my game, to chip and charge.  It's kind of difficult on the forehand, you know, kind of the way she was hitting it, to do that. 

Q.  What kind of strategies did you go through with returning her second serve?  What did you try?  What do you felt worked, didn't work? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, I felt like, you know, I mean, sometimes they were so short in the box that I had to be at net, you know, which worked with the wind.  But against the wind, I mean, you know, they're coming so slow.  You know, if you don't hit it -- I mean, nothing -- you weren't able to really time the shots at all out there.  So it's hard to even say.  I mean, because you're off balance, basically, all the time. And in those conditions, that kind of serve I guess works pretty well because you can't really hit it.  If you don't hit it good enough, she's good off the next shot, so...

Q.  Given the way you've played and given the way the tournament's unfolded, then Lindsay losing, were you thinking maybe destiny was on your side and it was meant to be for you? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Maybe there's no such thing. 

Q.  When you were serving for the match at 6-5, did you tense up a little bit?  You've been in that position before. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, no.  I didn't tense up at all.  I think she just played well and I just kept doing what I was doing, basically. But maybe she just played -- I mean, on that side against the wind, it was impossible, you know.  I mean, I felt like I was running with weights on, you know. 

Q.  You had chances at 5-4 in the third.  Does that influence you for the next game because you saw the chance slipping away?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I came back and held, so...

Q.  Then when it comes to a tiebreak, three times this year...

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I wasn't thinking about my past record, you know.  Really I was just in the moment playing every point.

Q.  Can you put words to the disappointment of being in a third-set tiebreaker, being in the US Open semifinal, being that close second time in two years and not getting there?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Not really.  But, I mean, of course it's disappointing.  But, you know, life goes on so... What can you do? 

Q.  Overall, should you have played more aggressive, especially with your forehand? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No.  I think I really, you know, was just trying to play in the wind as best as I could.  I think I did the best that I could as much as I could, you know. One side, you know, it was hard to hit it because then it would just, you know, fly out.  The other side I was hitting it.  I mean, I could have probably, you know, hit it and come in a few more times, you know. But I didn't really know what she was gonna do.  I mean, she would push sometimes, then she would come out and rip it.  Then, you know, in the wind, the slower they are, the more the ball -- it's able to take the ball more.  So when she would hit it, I actually would do better, so I don't know...

Q.  When you were serving at 6-5, did you tell yourself, "This is it, this is my chance, I'm going to do it right here."  What were your thoughts at that point? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I, you know, hit good serves, get first serves in, you know, just move her and try to -- I mean, of course I was thinking that, you know. 

Q.  I mean, you've been in this position before.  Did you allow yourself to think of what had happened prior?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, because I was just so concentrated on trying to win those points. 

Q.  Two Russians in the final for the second Grand Slam this year, what kind of observations can you make about Russian tennis, women's Russian tennis coming on to the scene? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, I guess they're just pretty hungry to play.  You know, there's just so many of them, so, you know... There's also a few good ones.  I mean, all of them are good.  You're bound to always have at least one Russian now in the semis I would say.

Q.  Given your year and given how you've rebounded here, can you walk out of here with your head held high and say you left everything on the court today?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I mean, I should.  Of course that might be difficult now because, you know, still it just really, you know, can't believe that it just kind of -- it's not really sunk in yet. But I will do my best to do that. 

Q.  Were you bothered or distracted at all that there was continuing controversy over the Serena match?  They apologized to her for that call.  I don't know how much attention you paid, if any at all.  Did that bother you?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I'd have to say it did.  I mean, because, you know, I really -- I couldn't sleep, you know, even a couple times after.  It was just like so much just emphasis on that.  Every time I would kind of turn on the TV, I was just starting to question even myself, you know, about it.  It was difficult and a lot of distraction maybe from that. 

Q.  Question yourself how? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, like, you know, like, you know, "Did I do something wrong?  Was it my fault?"  Whatever.  Just things like even just in the last game, you know, where they're going back -- if you check on every single ball, like probably it would just go both ways.  You can't do that.  But it made it seem like, you know, like I just got everything, you know.

Q.  Did you question that you should have given the point away?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, no, no. 

Q.  How did you feel when you heard they actually apologized?  That's unusual. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  That I didn't hear.  That I didn't know.

Q.  The USTA people called Serena and apologized for the overrule.  Only that call I'm talking about.  Do you think you deserve any further explanations, that your win was overshadowed or anything? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No.  I mean, I could see why they would do that, you know, for the Wimbledon -- they're trying to like basically save face, I think. But, you know, then they should do that for everybody, for every single call. 

Q.  Did you carry any of that into today's match, do you think, the lack of sleep or distraction?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, I don't think so.  No.

Q.  Was this match on your racquet, or did she seize it from you in the end? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  You know, I think it was just we both played the best that we could.  We both played a great match, I mean, as best as you could in these conditions. So, I mean, I didn't give it away, you know.  I think she played just better on those points. 

Q.  (Inaudible question regarding umpire's calls.)  Did anyone apologize to you?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No.

Q.  What did you say?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I just said you can't keep depending on the players to fix your mistakes.  That's not our job.  Our job is to play out there.  So it's looking pretty embarrassing for them. 

Q.  Should they have apologized to you?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, for other matches, yeah. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT