US OPEN
September 7, 2004
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  You've had a little bit of time to think about it.  What are your emotions?  Must have been one of the bravest wins of your career?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I mean, I feel great - of course.  I'm thrilled about it.  I just fought hard and, you know, I prevailed because of that, because I was just fighting.  I think I played smartly at times and mixed up my shots, and I just believed in myself, you know.  So it went my way.  
 
Q.  Serena said that the chair umpire went temporarily insane and that she was robbed.  Could you comment on that, please. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, that's what happens in tennis matches.  I mean, I can't recall how many times that, you know, things have gone that way either against me or, you know...  That's the way it goes.  It was just, you know, one point of the match.  But I think that I had some bad calls also at some point.  So, really, it's just for one point, I don't think changed the match like so early on especially in the match.  
 
Q.  When you stood up to serve in that final game, three matchpoints, what was there any moment where you thought back to the dramatic match last year on that same court?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, there was actually a couple times there where that went through my mind.  I was like, "I'm not gonna let this happen again."   I think it was a good thing to think about it.  I was like, "No, this is not going to happen again.  I'm just going to, you know, go for it this time the best I can," you know.  
 
Q.  What did you see on the overrule in the first game of the third set? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I didn't really see anything.  I mean, I was just like, you know, it was close.  It was close,  I thought.  To me, it looked like it was close, so... 
 
Q.  Do you understand Serena feeling the way she does?  She was in here saying, "I got robbed.  I got cheated." 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think if you look back on the tape, I'm sure I was robbed a couple times on some baseline shots.  You know, I came back and, I mean, I lost my service game on the next game, so it was completely even after that.  So, I mean, yeah, I can understand.  I mean, when you feel like you've been wronged and, you know, the umpire and you're just at war with the umpire basically. 
 
Q.  Did you hear the overrule? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Uhm, yeah.  Well, yeah, yeah.  
 
Q.  On TV, watching the TV replays, it looked like -- well, I couldn't hear it myself -- but the only time it came clear was when the point --
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I guess the umpire, I looked at her, and she said that was her call. 
 
Q.  Do you think more and more players will call for a Shot Spot on the umpire's screen?  You mentioned that you thought it was a good idea early in the tournament.  Do you think other players will start to think that?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I'm sure they already do.  I mean, I don't know what has to be done to actually make that possible.  
 
Q.  She thought that your strategy was to get every single ball back, and she said that she thought she played like an "idiot" to play into that.  Is that your strategy?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Of course I'm going to try to get every ball back.  Of course (laughter).  I mean, Wimbledon, it's grass.  It's a completely different game.  I was just trying to move it around as best I could.  And change-up the pace.  Yeah, I mean, the way Serena plays, you're put on defense quite a bit.  I think that, you know, even playing like defense - which usually that is not my game, my style is to play on offense - that I even was able to win at this point.  So, really, maybe I was the one playing like an idiot.  But, you know, I still won, so... 
 
Q.  Where would you rank this in terms of how proud you are of how you played?  Is this up there with your Slams?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, every Slam that I've won, I mean, I've had to fight my heart out.  You know, this is also another match, you know, where I've had to do that.  And that's -- like I can recall in the other ones that I really just believed in myself and believed in the hard work that I put in and, you know, really just fought for every ball and really did try to get every single ball back.  
 
Q.  After that heart-wrenching loss last year, night match, packed house, is it particularly sweet in somewhat similar circumstances to come back and hear people cheer for you?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I mean, it just goes to show you how amazing it is that I can have this chance to come back a year later and really be in the same position again.  I mean, I haven't won the tournament.  There's still two more matches to go. So, really, I'm not going to dwell on it too much and just kind of put it away.  
 
Q.  Are Ashe night matches your favorite atmosphere in this sport? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I have to say it's really -- you can't describe it.  You know, the position, it can be a hard position because, you know, you feel so much tension and so many emotions going on out there, you know, but I love it at the same time.  I mean, I wouldn't trade it for anything.  There's no place I'd rather be no matter how hard it can actually be.  You feel like you want to cry out there because you want to win so bad. 
 
Q.  Can you possibly try and describe just the intensity of the arena and the intensity of the crowd, possibly try to put words to that. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I just -- I mean, it's just like you're just like in this huge arena and just so many people just are just basically -- sometimes you feel like they're on top of you, watching you, which basically they are.  But you're just two warriors out there, fighting.  
 
Q.  Coming into this tournament, did you have any doubts that you'd be able to find the level you showed in the last three sets? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No.  And as soon as -- I mean, if I did feel some of those doubts creeping in, I'd just try to just put them away as fast as possible and know that, you know, whatever happens, happens.  But I believe that I can win this tournament.  
 
Q.  You're pumped up now.  You beat Serena Williams.  What is your game plan for the next match? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Right, well, enjoy it now, for the moment.  But, you know, I have two days off, so I think it's just really just go through the exact same routine that I've been doing - you know, the same practice times, the same workouts.  Really, you know, not answer a lot of questions about this and, you know, about the press and all this stuff and just think about my next opponent.  Really not -- I mean, just think about my game, too.  Just don't change anything. 
 
Q.  Have you had a chance to see Dementieva play this tournament?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  You know what, I've watched a little bit of her play Mauresmo and that's it. 
 
Q.  She's obviously advanced pretty far again with a serve that is perplexing to a lot of people who watch it, including a lot of us.  It seems like you should be able to sit back on that second serve and just hit a winner, yet no one seems to be able to do it. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, it's tough because it comes in with a lot of slice and I think you're, you know, watching her do the motion.  By the time the ball comes, it's too late.  You're like watching how kind of awkward it looks, I mean not even watching the ball anymore.  And, I mean, it's just -- it is tough, but it goes to show you, I mean, you can have that serve and you can have a 118-mile-an-hour serve, too. But, I mean, as soon as the point starts, though, she's a machine off the baseline, so... 
 
Q.  Any possible way to prepare for that?  Will you watch tape?  Is there any way anyone can try to assimilate that, a hitting partner, anything?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  You know what, I think I've been playing long enough to know how to return serves like that, whether they're easy or hard, and I just basically can adjust. The first intention is to go for it and attack the serve.  You know, if you're missing, it's tricky to either -- to try not to overhit it.  But I think, you know, basically, I've been playing long enough to know how to adjust.  
 
Q.  You think you've become a better fighter as you've gone along, as you've come through your career, with perhaps some of the experience you've had like perhaps Henin-Hardenne last year?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, it seems like I've been fighting against something since the start of playing tennis, so that is -- I've gotten pretty good at it, yeah.  
 
Q.  What about the fans here?  Serena specifically said sometimes the fans are against her.  Do you think that fans are fair?  In the match tonight, it seems they will swing back and forth. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think it was kind of evened out, you know.  I mean, you know, the fans are known to root for the underdog here, and I think they feel like that, you know, I'm the underdog and, you know, maybe they just want to see me win this one.  You know, she's already won it and she's won so much, you know.  And they love fighters, too, so... 
 
Q.  I think so many people have a connection and feeling for you because they know you've struggled so much.  What has been the one or two toughest struggles in your career? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  It's kind of hard to say.  I think that, you know, to come -- to kind of come back and play at the top level again, I mean, that's been a struggle.  You know, kind of fighting, I feel like, you know, outside forces or inside forces.  And, you know, to really just try to balance, you know, me having a life and also being a professional tennis -- kind of like separating and drawing the line of, you know, when one thing is that and the other is just, you know, being a normal human being after and, you know, respect myself in that way.  
 
Q.  Your serving, you were having a difficult time serving in the first set.  Suddenly in the second set you began to defend your serve much better.  With the exception of a burp early in the third set, you were constantly bailing yourself out of trouble by serving well.  Did you change the pattern in which you served to her?  Did you make some adjustments in the second and third set?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think in the beginning I just came out and I was just tight, you know.  And just not only in my serve, it just was affecting all parts of my game. In the second I just loosened up a bit and just started going for it.  I felt like my timing was good with it.  
 
Q.  This point in your career, would anything less than winning a title be satisfactory here? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, yeah.  I mean, just to be at this point, I'm very happy about it.  And, you know, at the end of the day, I think I can be happy with what I've done and achieved.  And even win or not win, you know, I mean, I should just be thankful that I'm here.  And it would be great to win but, you know, if I don't, life goes on, you know.  
 
Q.  You are one of the most powerful women players out here.  I think tonight in this game you have shown a lot of precision and consistency.  How are you going to keep that up?  How are you going to stay focused on your next match? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  That's a good question, you know.  The last time maybe this happened at the French, you know, I kind of maybe lost my focus after I beat her, and then came out and played a horrible match. You know, but this is the Open, the last Grand Slam, and really I just -- I've had a game plan coming into the tournament the whole time, and I'm just going to stick with it.  I feel really focused.  So I don't think that there's anything that can take it away.  
 
Q.  This is the 17th time you two have played.  12 of these matches have gone three sets.  Does it feel like there's a sameness to the way all these matches that evolve?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think the last match we had probably broke it up a little bit, right (smiling). Other than that, I think that was a good one and so, I mean, yeah, it's fun.  No, it's not the sameness.  You never know what's going to happen.  
 
Q.  All sort of come down to like a slug-fest of who's going to hit the ball harder and make the big shots.  There's always unforced errors because you're both going for so much in all these matches?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I don't think it was really a slug-fest out there, especially in the third set.  I think really I was mixing my shots up a lot.  I don't think I was hitting it enough, hard enough, so... 
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT