PACIFIC LIFE  OPEN
March 14, 2003
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  You were up 4-3, third set, just talk about what happened from there on. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I mean, the whole match, it was really so close.  You know, we were both playing some really good tennis.  You know, she just stepped it up I think at that point a little more than I did.  She got some good opportunities.  She took advantage of them, you know, the whole night.  You know, it was a little bit gusty out there on one side.  We'd always get broken, you know, on one side it was blowing against.  I think, you know, at 4-3, I was kind of on that side.  You know, it was just really hard at that point.  She played some unbelievable tennis. 

Q.  What was the injury on the injury time-out?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I guess it's like a high hamstring strain.

Q.  When did you get injured, do you think?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I've kind of been feeling it the last couple days.  I think just tonight with me running so hard, you know.  I was fine the whole match, and just sort of at the end, it sort of started bothering me because I think I was just, you know, running around so much.  With it being a little bit chilly and everything, finally it gave way a little bit.

Q.  Right or left?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Left.

Q.  You were moving to the right really well.  She could hardly get the ball past you moving to the right.  Moving to the left, she hurt you a bit more.  Is that a common thing for you?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  You mean on the forehand side? 

Q.  When she was going down the backhand side, down the line, you were having a harder time getting the ball.  Is that because her shot was so good or you moved a little bit slower to the left?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, if she's hitting the backhand down the line, then that's moving to my right, isn't it? 

Q.  She's hitting a forehand down the line to your backhand, sorry. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, well, I don't know.  I think it's easier to move when you're sort of freer on that side anyway.  You know, when you have two hands, it's harder to get over and get across and hit it with both hands.  I think you have a little more reach on the other side.

Q.  I thought you played well.  Do you feel you're playing well?  You look awfully strong. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I do.  I feel like it was a good match.  Definitely shouldn't put my head down from it.  Take a lot of positive things from it.  You know, it was very close.  You know, Lindsay, she played well.  I played well.  But she just played a little bit better.

Q.  Would you study a tape of a match like this or do you just kind of learn from it, talk about it with Steve?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I mean, I pretty much have it in my head.  I don't need to look at it.  But, yeah, I mean, definitely with Steve and my dad, who is at home.  But I pretty much know.  I don't have to look at it.

Q.  Statistically it looks like the one thing that's really separating you guys is you're having to defend too much on your second serve.  You only won 34% of those points.  That is one thing you're going to have to improve against the big hitters?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Usually, I mean, my second serve is not so attacked like Lindsay was doing it tonight.  But obviously I think that was her game plan.  You know, I mean, she was just hitting everything huge.  You know, she's one of the best returners, so she returns well anyways.  And when she's on  -- you know, I mean, I'm not hitting like puff ball serves.  They're up in the 80s.  You know, I think of course it could get a little better.  But, you know, when she's putting the pressure on like that, it's difficult.  But, you know, I would say for the most part that wasn't maybe  -- I don't think that was like the difference in tonight's match.

Q.  Do you and your family ever think of drawing on advice from other coaches or experts or do you feel you pretty much have a good clarity about what makes your game succeed, what you need to do?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, definitely, you know, you know the ones that know the game, who you can trust, who knows what they're talking about.  Sure, I mean, I'm not going to say specifically who.

Q.  You mean, you have thought of other people?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I mean, you know, you just kind of talk with people and they, you know, have their input.  You're not going to just listen to anybody.  No one's just going to come up to you and start saying  -- I mean, they will, but those are the quacks (laughter).  You know the ones that you know what they're talking about and you listen to.  Sure.  It's just like if you don't like the water, you can try it, and if you don't like it, just spit it out (smiling).  That's one of my dad's sayings. 

Q.  Is the family water the best kind?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  So far, yeah (smiling).

Q.  The only kind?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No.  Different kinds that, a little more flavor, some have bubbles (smiling). 

Q.  In the past you said you skipped this tournament for different reasons.  Anything this week that happened that maybe changed your mind about this tournament?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No.  I mean, yeah, it's like I will come back to it.  It's definitely been a better week last two weeks here.  Today I was playing Lindsay.  I mean, she's from this area, so the crowd was a little bit more on her side.  But this won't stop me from coming back. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT