PACIFIC LIFE  OPEN
March 12, 2003
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  She was giving you it looked like some nice pace tonight, hitting the ball kind of in your wheelhouse.  Is that the kind of ball you like to hit against?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I guess for the most part I would say.  But, you know, I'm just not looking to play well against one type of game.  But, I mean, even though she's hitting it hard or the opponent's hitting it hard, if it's too hard, it's too hard.  Doesn't matter if I like it or not.  I got into a good rhythm because she didn't really change it up at all.  She was just kind of very predictable.  But she's a good player.  I think she has a potential. 
 
Q.  Where do you think your level is now?  You're going into a pretty big match with Lindsay, who has given you problems in the past. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I mean, I'm just going to, you know, stay focused, try to just play the way I've been playing, you know, not really think about the match against Lindsay, semifinals or whatever.  Just kind of just go into it looking, you know, like it's another match.  You know, that's it, just play my game. 
 
Q.  She said in the past she thinks maybe she's gotten the better of you more often because you haven't served necessarily well against her, that's where she tries to attack you. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I mean, she's probably right on that.  But, you know, she hits well off the ground, too.  But, you know, we haven't played in a while, so it will be interesting to see how it goes. 
 
Q.  Are you in a good frame of mind overall?  Do you like how you performed your last few matches?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I do.  I haven't really let up.  I don't think I've let up my concentration at all.  I think I've gotten better and more aggressive.  You know, hopefully  -- this is getting to the point where it starts to count.  But, like I said, I try just not to get into that thinking too much, get into that moment.  I just kind of go out there and play my game.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT