PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 10, 2003
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  The second set, what happened there?  Did she just step it up a little bit?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think she definitely played better in the second.  Maybe I relaxed a little bit too much there when I was up 3-0.  I had 40-Love or something at one point, and I lost that game.  You know, she definitely played better.  I sort of let her play and kind of, you know, maybe got tired there a little bit because I think I was just letting her run me around everywhere.  You know, I went in the third set back to my tactic, which was being aggressive and moving her around.

Q.  How would you sum up the way you played today?  Did you hit the ball well?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I think I played really well.  I think it was a good match.  I mean, she's a tough competitor.  I think she had a little problem with her serve.  I don't know if she's injured.  You know, she doesn't usually serve like that.  You know, I think that was maybe forcing her to hit her groundstrokes so hard.  You know, it was tough because she's able to rip the ball.  Yeah, I think I played well to get past that.

Q.  You spent some time here briefly a good number of years ago.  What's it like to come back here and be here in the area and play the tournament?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I haven't had good results here in the past.  You know, it's a different year, a new year.  I come with a fresh head.  I mean, I haven't played the last few years.  Yeah, I'm a different person, different player now.  It's one of the biggest tournaments.  You know, usually maybe I don't play as well in this part of the country.  But, you know, I feel like I'm really getting a good rhythm here.  You know, the crowd has really been supportive.  It's a beautiful stadium to play in.  It's nice.

Q.  Key Biscayne is obviously sort of a home-type tournament for you.  Why do you think there are the problems playing in this part of the country?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I don't know.  You know, it's a weather change, a time change, it's an adjustment.  You know, maybe the balls fly a little bit here.  You know, I haven't had like bad results, just not like, you know, in other places where I've had great results.

Q.  When you say you're a different person, different player than you were here in the past, can you be more specific?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, definitely, I mean, I'm older, have a lot of experience under my belt.  Last time I played here, I didn't have a couple Grand Slams.  This time I do.  You know, whatever things about this place that bothered me before, I think I can get past that and I'm more of a mature person to not let anyplace dictate what I'm going to do.

Q.  Is it hard for you, after you've had such a spectacular comeback, with the competition being as tough as it is, to keep up the work ethic?  Do you feel like relaxing once in a while?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I mean, definitely.  It's a grind all year through.  You know, maybe I got a little bit tired of it and sort of took a break  - even though I was playing, still not having my best results.  Maybe I wasn't working as hard as I usually do.  But I think that helps that you do take the break or you realize, you know, that you start missing it and you start missing playing well, having the results.  So that's the motivation that gets me back to working hard.  It's sort of a cycle up and down.  I think everyone goes through it.

Q.  It would be better like if tennis had a season?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think it would help, yeah, definitely.

Q.  Martina just 22 and retiring.  Were you surprised by that?  What are your thoughts about her retiring?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Is it official?  It's not looking good? 

Q.  She says it's highly unlikely she'll ever come back.  Who's to say. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Never say never.  Yeah, I mean, I've had some pretty epic battles against her.  She's a fine player.  I've enjoyed playing her and even watching her over the years.  You know, it's unfortunate that we have to lose such a great champion and competitor, just tennis player.

Q.  As a fabulous athlete who emerged so early in your mid teens, does someone like that hit a wall after a while where the magic goes away?  Is there kind of a second breath after that? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I mean, you have to think that I guess her main reason for stopping is her injury.  I mean, there's not much you can do about that.  Believe me, I know, and a lot of other players will know, it's hard enough when you're feeling fine out there to just go out and play and deal with everything.  If you're struggling and in pain and you don't feel a hundred percent, I mean, it's mentally very draining.  You know, I'm sure it's just that in combination with other things, sort of like a snowball effect.  I mean, who knows?  She's still young.  She might come back. 

Q.  If you could say one thing, you obviously had a period where you were off the tour  - I know the situation is different with an injury  - but what would you say?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I mean, it's very different circumstances, you know. She's played all the way through.  She's won more Grand Slams than I have.  I mean, she's made tons of money.  I mean, it's a little different.  She did have a great career.  It's almost like, yeah, she fulfilled everything that she was supposed to do, and maybe in my case it wasn't, so I didn't.  That's why I came back.  I feel like I have more to do.  You can't win much more than she has. 

Q.  Her victories were all in that early run.  She had real troubles after that. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, you know, that's destiny. 

Q.  Speaking of destiny, I know you followed some Arizona tennis.  Is Arizona basketball part of your world these days?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I don't watch much basketball.  Yeah, definitely it's on every time in the house, you know, something going on, or I know what the results are.  You know, it's fun to watch.  I'm not like a fan, keeping track and everything like that.  I'm happy that he's happy.

Q.  What do you know about Zvonareva?  What do you know about her?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Not a lot.  I've never played her before.  I practiced with her a long time ago, but I think she's definitely improved since then.  I haven't even had a chance to watch her play.  It's kind of a surprise that she's in there.  You know, I think she's just like a typical, you know, baseliner, good off the ground.  I can just play my game and do all the right things  - serve well, be aggressive, you know, keep moving well.  I should feel pretty confident still.

Q.  Do you feel your game is where it needs to be to win this tournament?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  My game? 

Q.  Yes. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think every match I'm getting better, and today was a good test.  It was a more difficult match.  Yeah, I feel like since the first match I played well, I really felt like my strokes have been there and I've been moving well.  I think my chances are good if I just keep, you know, doing what I'm doing and stay positive. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT