PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 8, 2003
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  How do you feel you played?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think I played pretty well.  I think I played confidently and relaxed.  You know, she's a difficult opponent to play.  She's sort of, you know, got her own rhythm so you have to go along with it, sort of up and down.  But I think I just concentrated on my own game and played my own shots.  So I think I executed everything pretty well.  I mean, I had maybe one or two little lapses, just very little ones, and the rest was pretty good.  
 
Q.  Must be nice to win a couple matches in the desert.  It's never really been your best locale. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Right.  I mean, I haven't played here that many times.  But it's nice to get a few matches under my belt, for sure. 
 
Q.  The weather, how the ball flies, the court, all that is okay with you?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  I mean, I got here a few days early, so I got pretty used to everything.  Yeah, when you're feeling good  - feel like you're playing good, feel like you're in good shape, all that stuff  - it's not quite there as much as if you weren't feeling that good.  So they're just a little bit easier to cope with, I think, when you're feeling strong in other parts of your game. 
 
Q.  First game of the second set there was a call you thought was in, they called it out, she aces you, you double-fault the serve.  Did you really have to fight in that second game of the second set?  It almost looked like you were upset, then pulled it back near the end.  Is that what happened?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  I mean, maybe I lost my concentration there for like a second.  I got it back right away.  You know, I'm not going to let things like that bother me, you know, and start making me lose points here and there, and start making me lose concentration.  You know, it's not worth it.  I was playing well the whole time.  I just got it right back and continued on my game. 
 
Q.  Earlier in your career something like that would have stayed with you a little longer, wouldn't it?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  It depends on what point of my earlier career.  I mean, I've had different times, so (laughter).  
 
Q.  Casting ahead to the grass, for preview purposes.  Do you think anybody that wants to win on the grass is going to have to get by the Williams sisters?  If so, why? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I think people who have the most advantage are ones who have a good net game, serve and volley game, have a good serve.  There's not that many players out there.  I don't know, is it like Els Callens gave Serena like a very tough match that one year.  I think players like that.  You know, but the grass makes everything faster.  I mean, so it's a big advantage.  It's hard to get by.  But you also think it's adding to your own game, too.  If you can learn how to play the grass well, you know, you never know what can happen.  So maybe it's almost easier, maybe it's better on that kind of surface. 
 
Q.  Do you think that might be the one place, even though they've both won it, that somebody else could sneak up on the Williams?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think at any tournament, at any time, anybody could sneak up on anyone, so...  
 
Q.  How do you rate your chances on the grass, given that we're three or more months away?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, I'm not even thinking about it.  
 
Q.  What are your thoughts on what the WTA needs to do when they select someone in the next few weeks?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, it's something that I haven't been thinking about too much.  I mean, I've just been really kind of concentrating on my own stuff and my own game, what I need to do to get back to playing well.  Obviously, someone who is not too passive, who's determined, believes in his cause, you know, I think is strong-minded, strong-willed person and can get things done.  Definitely somebody who has a good business sense and knows how to talk to people.  Definitely someone who is going to listen to the players.  
 
Q.  What do you need to do to get back to playing well?  What were you working on in preparation for this season?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Just everything.  Just my whole training habits, getting back to working on my fitness a lot, you know, just kind of going out there and, in a way, not expecting too much, but just kind of going along with what my game is and not really holding back.  So every match I think I'm trying to do that.  I think in maybe the earlier rounds, that's the best opportunity for me.  You know, I can have that chance to sort of work on things that maybe I wouldn't do before, you know, take more chances, take more risks, try that kind of play, so if it doesn't work, I have confidence that I can just go back to my other game and win that.  That's what I think it's going to take to beat the other top players. 
 
Q.  If you're not winning titles, are you playing up to your capability? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, it's tough to say really because there's just so many good players out there.  You know, I'd like to say if I'm playing my best that I'll be, you know, winning everything  - when I'm playing my best.  But, you know, I can't say that nowadays.  I think I should be pretty darn close.  So, yeah, I mean, when I'm playing my best tennis, I mean, there's definitely a better chance for me to win some titles. 
 
Q.  Are you still having fun out there?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  You know, that's what I do.  It's what I enjoy.  Definitely, you know, it's nice to go out there, and when you hit a good shot, you hear people's moans and groans, like, "Ooh."  I'm competitive, I like working that hard, running around the court.  You know, yeah, I get a thrill from it.  
 
Q.  Do you feel you're in good shape now?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, definitely a big improvement from the beginning of the year.  And I think I can get a little bit better.  So far, I mean, I haven't really been tested to the max.  But, you know, I had a pretty tough match in Dubai, so I think from there, you know, I've kept my level.  
 
Q.  You have a great down-the-line backhand, big inside out forehand, lots of shots that work for you.  What are one or two shots that you don't own that you feel you need?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  That I don't own?  Well, my backhand down the line is good for the most part, but I could maybe take more chances on that and nail that better.  But what I think I could be a lot better on is definitely my net court game.  You know, I don't have maybe quite as much confidence in there as I should.  You know, I shouldn't be surprised when I come to the net and I win the points, you know.  
 
Q.  And you're still surprised when you're winning points at the net? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Not as much now, but you know (smiling).  That's something else I've been working on.  You know, it's tough because the girls are so good at the baseline.  You know, it's like they could hit a passing shot in their sleep.  That's one of the things, yeah, mostly the transition game.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT