AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 13, 2003
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  You never played her before.  Did she do something that you didn't expect or weren't looking for? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I guess -- I've never played her before?  Are you sure?  I feel like I've played her somewhere. 
 
Q.  Oh, yes.  You played her once. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I mean, I know the kind of player she is.  I just kind of never know what to expect, you know.  And she was just hitting some great shots there.  
 
Q.  How are your eyes? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  You know, they felt okay out there.  But, I mean, I would have to say the recovery time wasn't enough, and I feel like I just didn't give myself enough chance to fully prepare.  Probably if I wasn't the defending champion, I wouldn't have showed up, and I probably should have considered that.  
 
Q.  You did look to be cruising in the first and second set.  What changed from there? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  She played well, but, I mean, that's the match toughness, the mental toughness.  Maybe physically I felt like I was getting a bit tired, but, you know, she just got on a roll there.  I just felt the momentum swing, and mentally and physically I wasn't strong enough I guess.  
 
Q.  Given the problems you had with your eyes and conditioning, et cetera, does that lessen the disappointment of being defending champion going out?  Do you actually allow for that? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I mean, in a lot of ways it's disappointing - of course, you know.  But I guess I got to look on the positive side that, you know, I came here as a defending champion and, you know, maybe it didn't feel like I was at my best but I put myself on the line and, you know, took that risk.  I guess I have to give myself credit for being strong enough to just come and, I think, you know, still be here and give my best and try to fight no matter what happens  - even if I go out the loser.  
 
Q.  How much time do you think it's going to take before you're 100 percent? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, from my eyes, the part about just my eyes, I think they're okay now.  It's just basically, you know, I'm now getting back to feeling normal again.  So it's just kind of starting from that.  I would say, you know, a few weeks, maybe a month or so.  
 
Q.  When did you have the procedure done?  What sort of things lingered afterwards? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I had the procedure done a week after I played in LA, and I had pterygiums removed in both eyes and I had stitches in both eyes.  For two weeks, I mean, basically I was in the dark because I couldn't be in the sunlight because my eyes were too sensitive.  Then by, you know  -- I'm having late practices.  By the time I'm already on the practice court, it's like four weeks already, so...  You know, I'm not trying to make excuses, that's for sure.  But, no, I have to say it had a lot to do with my preparation for coming here. 
 
Q.  What difference would a longer stay in the Sydney tournament have made? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I'm not sure if it would have made any difference, or maybe just  -- I mean, I was fine when I went out tonight.  I wasn't really nervous  - I mean just a little bit nervous at the beginning.  But I don't think it would have made too much difference.  
 
Q.  What caused you to have the procedure?  Was it pain in the eye?  Was it because you couldn't see properly?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Because I couldn't see properly, and I guess they were getting worse.  If I would have  -- really the only time I can do it is in the off-season.  I think waiting another year would have been too late. 
 
Q.  What's the name of the condition? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  It's called a pterygium.  It's not spelled how its sounds. 
 
Q.  A pterygium?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, from the sun.  A lot of people do have it, but, you know, I had both eyes done at the same time so... 
 
Q.  Do you think playing under the floodlights made it more difficult for your eyes?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Under the lights?  
 
Q.  Yeah. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  You know, it's just  -- the glare, either it's sunlight or those kind of bright lights, they're still a little bit bothersome.  So either way, you know, it wouldn't have made a difference.  
 
Q.  So you say your eyes were okay, but it's the time that you couldn't prepare that probably was the difference? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, well, I mean, the glare I think probably affects me more than most people.  But definitely the preparation.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT