US OPEN
September 5, 2004
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Can you just talk about what happened at 3-5 in the first set.  You got down and then you reel off four games in a row. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I wasn't happy with the game that I played to lose my serve.  I feel like I just didn't concentrate well and I just decided to try to concentrate a little better and step it up.  Kind of, you know, knew what she was trying to do a little bit.  You know, just tried to keep the ball deep and really, you know, not let her -- give her a chance to come to net and try to be aggressive on her part. I think I served well to get out of it then.  So I just played solid tennis, you know, and concentrated really well. 
 
Q.  Did that give you a lot of confidence going into the second set?  It seemed like you really picked it up after that. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I think between that and then also she started missing a little bit more.  I think maybe she lost a little bit of the juice that she came out with.  So that helped me, because she made a few more mistakes.  But I was, you know, I felt like I was playing good, I was moving well, I was being aggressive so... 
 
Q.  What impression did you have of Ai's playing?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Ai, the way she plays?  
 
Q.  Yes. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  You know, every time I play her, it's always going to be a difficult match.  I mean, she plays -- she's very quick.  You know, she just plays with a lot of energy.  She doesn't give too many points away.  So really, you can't have a bad day against her. So, you know, Ai is pretty much the same player all the time, which is what makes her, you know, who she is, the player she is.  
 
Q.  How do you feel now going up against Serena?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I feel great.  I mean, I feel like I'm playing well and my chances are very good.  
 
Q.  Can you get a sense of how she's playing just from these matches?  It seems she's had a year where you're not really sure what level she's at right now. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I mean, I'm just gonna go out there and I expect the best from her.  We've played each other so many times.  I've played her at her best, I've played her at her worst.  I've played her at my best, me at my worst.  So it's just kind of like I can just only worry about myself, really... 
 
Q.  Do you feel like you have enough confidence right now that you don't really feel like, you know, doesn't matter who you're playing at this point, you feel strong enough that...
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, absolutely.  
 
Q.  Do you ever dream about the match you played against Justine here last year? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No.  
 
Q.  You never think back on it, when you first stepped on the court here this year, did you think back on how wonderful a match that was? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Uhm, I've thought about that before, yeah, but not -- I mean, it's kind of, you know, history for me now.  Right now, this is a new time so it's, you know, I'm just trying to think about the present right now. 
 
Q.  But when you do think back, what do you think about? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I really -- I don't really think about it that much, you know.  I just think that, I mean, I had the match, I probably should have won, but, you know, it was a great match for women's tennis and, you know, next time just close it out and that's that.  
 
Q.  Serena is dealing with a knee injury.  She says that doctors told her not to play here, but she's playing because it's the Open, all that.  Do you go into the match, do you play her like you played her at Roland Garros, try to wear her down, or are you concerned she might come out like she did at Wimbledon, play quick, straight tennis and you'd be out of there pretty fast?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I believe that from now on I don't believe what anybody says, and I just believe (laughter)... I just expect them to be 100 percent at their game.  Because I really don't think anybody would be playing if they really didn't feel 100 percent.  And that goes for me, too.  So I will just expect the best.  Really, like I just can only worry about myself, my game, and just don't do a lot of things different.  
 
Q.  Do either of you guys have the advantage because you know each other's game so well?  Does it help you or her one way or the other? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Uhm, I mean, you try not -- I mean, you want to mix it up.  You don't want to try to, like, come out with the same type of game plan every single time, you know. So it's just really kind of when you go out there, it's almost like you can change it right when you're out there, too.  You know, you kind of feel what's working, what's not working so... 
 
Q.  You feel like maybe you have the capacity to mix it up and throw a few different things at her more than she does to you; that she pretty much is what she is and that's that?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Straightforward?  Yeah, but I think I want to stick to my -- what my main game plan is, too, because when I start to do things different, that's kind of what messes things up. From her, yeah, you pretty much expect the same thing.  Just feel like either it's going to be like a bulldozer effect or, you know, it's just gonna be like, you know, a lot of errors or whatever so... 
 
Q.  Does it mean any more at all to play her here than anywhere else? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I mean, this is the first time we've played here.  So I guess for the crowd, you know, it will be exciting.  
 
Q.  Not so much for you?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, it really doesn't matter.  
 
Q.  Who is the crowd going to root for? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  (Shrugging her shoulders). 
 
Q.  She said it would be for you, you have a longer history here. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Maybe I haven't won this yet.  I don't know, I'm sure it will be pretty equal.  Maybe I'll have my fans, she'll have her fans. 
 
Q.  Match her outfit for outfit? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  (Smiling).  I mean, she probably won in that department, as being most... whatever. But, yeah, I don't have any more comments on that.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT