adidas International
January 7, 2003
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Tough way to start the year again.
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, so...  But it is the start of the year, my first match back.  So it's to be expected that I'm not going to play the greatest my first match.  
 
Q.  Is she a tough opponent as a first match?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I think in these conditions it's tough because she gets a lot of balls back, and, you know, she's consistent.  So, you know, it's the first match and you're trying to find your rhythm, find your groove.  She's difficult to play because she doesn't give you many chances.  
 
Q.  You don't seem overly concerned.  You're not?  Are you concerned? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, I mean... 
 
Q.  Go on. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I mean, what can I do?  I mean, I've just got to forget about it and think about next week. 
 
Q.  How much does this set you back for next week? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, it doesn't really set me back at all.  I mean, I just  got a good match in, and just have more time to practice now and get used to the conditions over there.  
 
Q.  Would you have preferred to have more matches? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  It really doesn't matter either way.  I think I will still feel comfortable.  
 
Q.  Did you have trouble with your eyes out there, with the glare?  You've had eye surgery recently? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  
 
Q.  How's it going?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  It's fine.  I mean, I think it's pretty difficult for anyone to kind of see out there with the glare.  You can't really wear glasses.  So it's something that I tried, and it works.  
 
Q.  You weren't missing by too far on your groundstrokes.  Are you happy with where your game is at, despite the loss?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  I mean, it's tough to really gauge, you know, with the wind and the conditions.  I mean, it's like impossible to see where your game's really at.  I mean, everything's just going all over the place out there.  It's just the conditions are really tough.  And I, you know, have trouble with this tournament every year, so that's why I don't let it get me down too much.  Because at least, you know, I know that this is the toughest.  If I can get through this, I can get through anything, so... 
 
Q.  Are you happy to be out of the sun now?  You're going to get a lot during the Australian Open, hopefully, as you progress.  Are you happy to not be subjected to the extreme heat down here? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I think I'll still have some workouts, some workouts and practice and try to run outside and try to get used to the conditions.  I came from home, and usually it's really hot around this time and this year it was pretty cold.  So I'm not really as used to the heat as I usually am, so... 
 
Q.  Does Serena saying she wants to go through the season unbeaten spur you on more?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I just answer questions about my game.  I have no comment about that.  
 
Q.  What part of your game do you think needs to improve between now and the beginning of the Australian Open? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, I think that was  -- I was hitting out on my shots.  I had a lot of opportunities to maybe come to net some more, but I wasn't as confident.  And the wind, it didn't feel like I could gauge my game that well with the conditions.  So overall, I feel like I'm striking the ball well, and I just got to, you know, be more consistent and get the rust out a little bit.  
 
Q.  Are you able to compare your preparation this year to last year?  Do you remember where you were last year compared to this year?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I feel about the same.  
 
Q.  Does that mean you're confident of defending your title again?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, of course I'm confident.  Last year I had a loss here also.  So, you know, you could ask me the same question, Does it set me back?  Does it this, that, whatever?  But no.  I mean, it starts  -- for me, it starts over in a Grand Slam.  I think I raise my level automatically.  
 
Q.  Would you say you're actually in better condition this year?  You were coming off a slight injury at this stage last year going into the Open.
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, more or less about the same.  Maybe the only thing is just the heat.  Maybe I got a little more tired out there just 'cause I'm not used to it completely. But I think a few more days.  And still, I mean, the time change, I haven't been sleeping that well since I got here.  I just arrived about, you know, three days ago.  
 
Q.  Do you feel any more or less pressure going in to Melbourne after winning the last two years? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Either way, I don't feel anything - more, less.  I'm just going in to play my game.  I mean, the only pressure I feel is the pressure I put on myself.  Last year I was quite nervous going into it, and, you know, I crossed that battle.  This year I'm defending, but still, it's like I've done that already so I'm not as nervous going into it.  
 
Q.  So in a way, if you're superstitious, it's good news today?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I don't know. 
 
Q.  Are you? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Not really.  I'd rather lose here than there, that's for sure, yeah.  
 
Q.  What was under your eyes?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Just some zinc oxide.  It's supposed to be for the glare, I don't know.  You've probably seen a lot of baseball players, people like that, football players, wearing it.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT