US OPEN
August 31, 2002
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  How difficult is it to play when it's so cold, you have to sit down for the changeover?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, when it goes from one condition to the other, I mean, it's been pretty hot and humid all week, then all of a sudden such a change, it's difficult.  It being late at night also makes it worse.  That's why at the end I didn't even want to sit down too long because it just seemed to be getting colder.

Q.  Did you worry about cramping?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Just getting stiff.  I mean, you never know, that's when you can injure.  I don't think cramp, but maybe something would get so tight and you could just injure something.

Q.  I remember Wimbledon you had the rain.  A couple days ago you had the intermittent rain. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Hopefully it's not going to be cold.

Q.  Are you feeling good about your tennis tonight?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  I think I played well.  Shaughnessy, she's a tough opponent.  I felt I played so well I didn't let her play at all.  I was pretty consistent.  I served great, except for the last game.  You know, I did everything.  I came in on some good shots, some good opportunities.  I moved well considering the weather and everything. 

Q.  Preparing yourself for the next match, what do you think you need to bring to your game now? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think if I can just keep going the same way, still play the same tennis I'm playing, I should be all right.  I mean, we'll see.  I haven't really been tested.  When it gets physically tougher and mentally when it gets tougher, that's a different thing.  As far as now, I'm playing great.  Hopefully when I'm put to the test, I can continue the same level.

Q.  Isn't part of the reason you haven't been tested because you have been playing so very well?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, I guess I could look at it that way also.  It's fine if I can get through the tournament without being tested at all, I'd be happy.  That's part of it also.

Q.  Does history help when you come into a match like that, you haven't lost. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I don't remember. 

Q.  Does it help you psychologically?  Does it hurt her psychologically?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, it could work both ways.  Someone that I've lost to over and over, I mean, it just makes me more motivated to try to win.  You never know.  It's a Grand Slam.  It's a big night.  Night match at the US Open.  You know, they could think to themselves, "This is it, this is the time I've been waiting for."  It could work both ways. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT