US OPEN
September 3, 2004
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  She looked a little nervous in the first set.  Second set she kind of showed a bit of her game.  You came around in the third set. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I mean, it was a combination of me coming out really pouncing on her.  Yeah, she didn't -- she made quite a few mistakes - probably nerves.  So, you know, the second set, she definitely played a lot better, a lot better.  She came up with some really good shots.  And I think I just sort of, you know, let up a little bit or just, you know, started getting into her game a little bit.  And then the third set, I just really took it up a notch and just basically played more aggressive, how I did in the first.

Q.  Are you surprised, I guess since you've been around long enough now maybe you wouldn't be, that almost every single elite women's player is being pushed in the early rounds? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, I'm not that surprised.  I mean, you know, the girls are getting better, they're getting stronger.  You know, just more consistent and able to hit bigger shots now.  So I think that, you know, you should feel lucky when it's really easy.  You know, basically it's not that way any more, you know, unless someone's just really having a bad day.  But most of the time, I think it's competitive. 

Q.  Were you aware before the match that she could play as well as she did?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No.  I've never even seen her play before.  I'd heard some things about her, but obviously it's still not the same as when you go up against them.  But, you know, I think -- I mean, she's good off the baseline, got an unbelievable backhand.  But, you know, she's a good little player. 

Q.  Are you happy that you were forced to three sets?  You said the other day you didn't want to go to three sets, show anybody that you might be vulnerable, yet it happened today. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I mean, but it shows that when I go to a third set, I'm even tougher (smiling).  So, you know, you got to give the girls credit.  You know, it's a game.  That's the name of the game, is to win.  And it really doesn't matter how you win or how many sets it takes, just win.

Q.  Is there any way it can be a positive to go three in the first two matches to prepare you for tougher ones ahead?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I mean, you know, it's a good chance to really get out there and get a good rhythm - especially if you haven't been playing many matches.  I think it's fine.  I mean, at a Grand Slam you have a day off, so it's not like it's, you know, going to be too tiring to play, you know, a third set.  It's not like you're playing back to back.  So, you know, I'm not thinking about the sets.  I'm not thinking about the score.  I'm thinking about how I'm playing each point, you know, on to the next point, however long it takes or doesn't take, you know.

Q.  Is this the deepest women's tennis has - I don't want to say ever been - but in your playing experience, is this as deep as it's been?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  It's tough to say.  Maybe it's a different sort of tennis.  It was tough then, and it's tough now.  But it's more -- you know, it's pretty one-dimensional now.  Everyone's pretty much solid off the ground, so much power off the ground.  Maybe you had more different styles of play back then.  But, you know, I think each generation has had its, you know, few top players that have been really, really good.  And now, you know, below the Top 20, you'll still have tough matches.  But, I mean, there still is a gap, I would say. 

Q.  You mentioned the one-dimensional aspect of it.  How does that play into it?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I mean, you know, when everybody is getting stronger, the way everybody's training, which I still -- I mean, I think that will be over any kind of style of play.  You can do it, I can definitely do it.  I think it's exciting for the fans also.  But, you know, it makes it harder for you to come to the net and kind of mix it up because, you know, you can't get to the net as much, you'll be passed more easily, things like that. 

Q.  In that third set, it was still very close.  You got up to a 3-2 lead.  Did you think the key was in the sixth game she missed her first serves and you started to crush her second serves?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  I mean, I should have been doing that, you know, really in the second set.  Just like I said, I took my foot off the gas a little bit, you know, and I just was saying to myself, "Just go for it, whatever the result is."  I'm just trying to, no matter what the score is, keep telling myself to like move forward and hit out on the ball.  Because I think in the end, in the long run, it's going to help me win these big matches, if I can just really do it in the beginning matches, just no matter what, you know, just kind of hit out on the ball. 

Q.  Concerned about some of the calls?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  You know, even from watching other matches, they haven't been too good.  I mean, I really think they should look into having the Hawk-Eye on the umpire's chair.  I mean, I don't see why not.  I mean, this level of the game, you know, when it's so close, and one or two shots can make a difference, I mean, I don't think it's fair. 

Q.  Is there talk among you and some of the players, instant replay is such a large factor, are you saying, "What are we waiting for?" 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I don't know.  I'd like to know what we're waiting for.  I don't see why they don't start at least trying it. 

Q.  What do you hear are the reasons for not doing it?  Delays? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Money maybe.  I don't know.  I don't see like this tournament being short on money, you know.

Q.  You played so many slams.  You're going to be going into the fourth round, third Slam in a row.  What's your mentality?  Do you know where you are playing-wise?  Do you know if you're capable of going further?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I'm feeling good.  I'm feeling confident.  I'm feeling strong out there.  I feel like, you know, my shots are penetrating like they usually do.  And I feel like I really am moving well, you know.  So those are all important factors.  I think the last one I said is the biggest one for me.  Once that feels good, you know, I feel like I am more free to play my game.

Q.  Do you expect, though, that generally at the slams every player has a bad match, do you think you've had the match where you might just have to fight through, a Myskina type of match at the French or Serena at Wimbledon, you have to find a way when you're not playing your best but still win?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I mean, I think I can draw on those experiences, you know, learn from them.  You know, obviously it's a clean slate, it's a new tournament.  You know, so not really like, you know, thinking about it too much because...  It's a different time.  But I think I'm not going to let those things happen or let those kind of matches happen.  I'll do my best not to.  You know, hopefully with the crowd and being here in New York, I mean, I'll just be more pumped up, won't have the nerves, all those things.  It will be more positive. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT