WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2002
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  It would appear to be an ice bag on your left shoulder.  Can you take us through what happened, how it affected your play today, if it did. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I felt it at the start of the second set, like a little strain.  I guess it's from my neck.  But it was just kind of one of those nagging feelings right there (pointing to shoulder).  It was just really bothering.  I called the trainer, tried to warm it up or something.  I think because it was just so cold, didn't really get a good warm-up.  But I don't think it had anything to do with my loss today.

Q.  You think you might have jerked your neck or something real quick, affected something in there?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, my neck was a little bit stiff waking up this morning.  That and plus the cold, not really having a good warm-up, or any warm-up really, probably jerked it, yeah. 

Q.  How disappointing is it?  You planned for Wimbledon, all that stuff, you have a first set where you go on and off three times.  Hard to get going when it's that kind of situation. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  It's very hard.  But it's the same for everyone.  You know, everyone's got to go through it.  You just have to know that this is Wimbledon.  I mean, it didn't help to be playing an opponent today that was playing I think the best she's played in a long, long time.  So, you know, that factor, and all the other factors.  I mean, it's disappointing.  It's a little bit of bad luck, I think.  But I've really got to hand it to her.  I mean, she played unbelievable.

Q.  What wasn't working in your game today? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I don't think I really had a chance to play out there.  The first set there was just no rhythm at all because we had to go on and off however many times.  You know, when you're playing against someone that's playing so well, just puts more pressure on you.  So I think it forces the errors a little more  - you know, came double-faults, a few unforced errors, easy misses.  So just really never got into the match. 

Q.  She volleyed so great today.  Do you think that affected your shot selection at all?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think she did everything great.  The most important thing she did I think was serve unbelievable.  I mean, I didn't have  -- maybe one game I had a chance to break.  And, you know, she just kept throwing out great serves.  She did everything well.  My passing shots -- she volleyed so well, I think on a couple passing shots, I mean, I hit to the fence just because, you know, I was trying too hard because she was just playing so well.

Q.  The way she played today, do you think she can stop the Williams sisters, one of them?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Sure, I think so.  I mean, I think she has a pretty good chance if she plays like she did today, yeah.

Q.  You beat her at The Open.  I'm paraphrasing, but you sort of suggested she can get a little shaky.  Were you surprised that you didn't see much of that today, mentally?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  Well, I played her also in  -- where did I play her?  In Rome, I think it was, yeah.  I just played her there, too.  You know, she's never been as consistent as she was today.  Usually, you know, if you can just stay in there with her, she can make a few unforced errors and kind of give you the opportunity.  Just, yeah, like streaky.  But today there was none of that.  You know, I wasn't waiting for that to happen.  I was just trying to, you know, play my tennis, try to get into it, try to change different things, you know, to try to stop her. 

Q.  How did the injury affect you when you tried to get a shoulder turn?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think that's what happened in the first game.  I mean, as soon as I tried to pass on my backhand, I think that's when I first felt it.  Then it just got worse.  I mean, I was even, you know, feeling it just, you know, on my serve, just throwing the ball up.

Q.  You commented about this before.  How do you feel about your overall performance now?  Do you think you're worn down, tired?  Are you playing too much?  You've talked a lot about the rigors of the tour.  There's some players like the Williams sisters who played two-thirds of what you play.  How much of a factor is that at this stage?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, I probably play two-thirds of what some of the other players play, too.  But I don't think I play all that much.  I think I space it out pretty well.  When I think it's getting to be too much, you know, I try to take a break.  And now, for instance, I'll have like about three weeks to take off, get ready for the hard court season.  I mean, that's what it's all about.  I mean, I try to be in the best physical shape I can be so, you know, it doesn't wear me down.  But I'm definitely not the 16-year-old body anymore (smiling).  That makes a difference. 

Q.  With Mauresmo's talent and power, should she have won a Grand Slam by now?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I think it's very tough to win a Grand Slam.  I mean, yeah, talent and power - but you've got to have the whole package, mentally be there, physically, you know, just be consistent.  I think she's got lots of time.  I think she can only get better, still even improve from now.  So there's definitely a possibility. 

Q.  There seemed to be two crucial moments in the match where you seemed to be distracted or kind of exchanged glances with the umpire.  One was when the rain started to fall and delay wasn't immediately called.  Two was when he overruled two serves in a row to make them aces.  Did that throw you at all?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, the first time I probably should have stopped.  I mean, I could have stopped.  That was a key time because that's when I got broken.  I think I had two double-faults.  I mean, I'm serving right into the way the rain is coming down on me.  I should have probably stopped it, and I could have.  But the second time, I mean, at that point I just  -- I mean, I realized things weren't going my way.  There was no point in really arguing with it. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT