WIMBLEDON
June 24, 2002
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Quite a tough workout today. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, it was a good match, especially in the second set.  It was very close.  She really started playing better.  I'm glad to have gotten a match like that where it wasn't too easy.  You know, it was good to have some rallies.  I really had to concentrate.  I think it was really a good match. 
 
Q.  She seemed to loop a lot of backhands, plenty of dropshots.  That is going to help you going for the title this year, mixing up the game a little bit?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, yeah.  Not too many players play like her.  You don't know what to expect.  She kind of plays like that dinky kind of tennis.  You never know, then she can come and hit hard.  It's not the usual game, how the other players play.  Sure, I mean, if you can handle that type of game, I think that makes it better, makes it easier for, then, playing against the other types of games that are just kind of straight on.  
 
Q.  Do you think you're better prepared this year to go to the final? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I want to take it match by match.  I'm feeling well.  Physically I feel well.  I've been playing well the last two weeks, I think in my practices.  Yeah, maybe I have  -- my game's a little better this year.  I've had better preparation maybe.  
 
Q.  Have you had a chance to talk to Billie Jean about the Fed Cup situation?  Is there any desire on your part to get that smoothed over so you can possibly play again?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, I haven't talked to her.  Right now, my career is more important.  So right now it's not even something I'm thinking about. 
 
Q.  No regrets about that situation or how it's kind of played out?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, I think it's pretty much put to rest.  I mean, it was something that happened just in a couple days, and kind of, you know, got blown out of proportion, and then it just died down.  So really, I'm fine with moving on.  I mean, I have no regrets.  I totally believe I, you know, did the right thing.  Basically I didn't do anything wrong.  I mean, I have no regrets.  I think anyone that should have regrets is their side, so...  You know, they lost one of their top players.  That's all I have to say.  
 
Q.  Do you agree with most pundits that the title is between yourself and the Williams sisters? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, I can't agree with that.  As a tennis player, you can't ever agree, because you never know what's going to happen.  You know, they can look on the outside, but on the inside, you know, we just know that anything can happen, especially on this surface.  You know, we're just favored to win.  But I think there's a lot of other good players that have a chance and that are  -- you know, especially are going to be more determined.  And they don't want to see the Williams sisters or me up there just dominating the sport.  So I think, you know, we're not even close to that.  You know, so I think there's a lot of players that are just very determined out there, and you've got to watch out for everybody.  
 
Q.  Do you think it's good for the sport or not good for the sport to have the same couple players winning all the tournaments?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I don't think it's good.  I think it would just get boring, especially I think for the public to watch the same players over and over.  But I don't think it's been the same players.  It hasn't gotten to that.  Maybe, you know, the last couple tournaments.  But really it's just been  -- at least in the Top 10, you know, there's still a number of players that have won tournaments.  You know, it's been different winners here and there.  Really, it's not dominating to  -- dominating to me is like Steffi in her days and Hingis was there dominating for a while.  It's not that anymore, for sure. 
 
Q.  How would you describe your relationship with the Williams sisters off the court?  Is it cordial?  Friendly?  How would you describe it? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, I think we just respect each other in a professional atmosphere, and that's it.  I mean, that's all I know them as.  No, we don't go and have tea together, that's for sure.  But there's not too many players that are friends with each other.  There's only a few.  There's only a few that I know, that I'm friends with.  So the rest, it's a mutual respect, I think, and that's it. 
 
Q.  Is it a genuine rivalry between you and them? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I mean, I think so.  You know, we've had very close matches.  I haven't played Venus too much.  But definitely I've played Serena a lot, and it's all been close matches.  You know, I was winning before, now she's winning.  So I think we're just going back and forth.  So, I mean, that's a good rivalry.  You know, but I still think there's other players out there. 
 
Q.  Any bad blood between you and them?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, I wouldn't say that at all.  I mean, I just play them, that's all.  Other than that, I mean, I have nothing to say. 
 
Q.  Your commercial for Florida Tourism Industry is airing back home.  You've been selective with endorsements.  Do you anticipate doing more things along those lines?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  It depends on what it is.  I mean, that was for a good cause, for my home state, didn't take too much of my time.  So as long as it's easy and I don't have to talk a lot on the commercial, then it's fine.  I don't mind (laughter).  
 
Q.  You say there's other players out there.  Who are you nominating?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Oh, well the Belgian girls, Lindsay, she's yet to come back.  I know when she'll come back, she'll be very eager since she's been out of the game.  You know, there's still  -- Monica you have to watch out for.  There's just, you know, a lot of different players.  Hantuchova, when she really comes into her own.  All these girls are young.  I think the older they get, the more experience and the better they're going to get.  
 
Q.  Where would you place Jelena Dokic about the girls, most likely?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  She's definitely a threat also.  You never know, you know, what can come out of her.  When she's playing really well and she's on a roll, she's very difficult to beat.  
 
Q.  Do you take pride in the fact that American women have won the last eight Grand Slam titles?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Sure. 
 
Q.  Is this something you pay attention to, kind of look at it as an American takeover of women's tennis right now?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I don't really look at it like that.  I mean, I guess it's a good thing since I'm happy that I'm part of the group.  Other than that, I mean, I think the States has always been the strongest in that regard.  You know, even the men.  I don't know, maybe not so much the men anymore.  But there's just a lot more players coming from the States.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT