TENNIS MASTERS SERIES - ROMA
May 18, 2002
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Jennifer, do you feel that that fourth game of the final set, when you had three break points for a 4-love lead, do you think that was a turning point for Serena?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I don't know if I would say that was like the turning point.  I think if I would have won that game, I would have, I think, definitely had a better chance.  But, I mean, who knows?  You know.  It was a very important game.  But, you know, kind of things turned around.  You know, she took the injury timeout and, you know, things kind of shifted a little bit after that. 

Q.  Did the timeout bother you in some ways?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I guess I stiffened up a little bit also.  And, you know, things just  -- I had a momentum going.  And maybe, you know, that kind of shifted it a little bit.  I mean, you know, but mainly for me, I guess, you know, it's -- especially the time of the day and everything, it's getting cold.  I just maybe stiffened up a little bit.   But, I mean, it was close anyways.  I mean, I still came back and was able to break at  - what was it  - I was up 5-4.  So it was, you know, pretty much until the end.  It wasn't like it changed things dramatically. 

Q.  Even if you lost, were you pleased to have a match with such intensity?  Are you pleased with the quality of your game? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I would say that I didn't play nearly as well today as I have been playing, especially the way I came out in the first set.  I mean, I struggled to get going, you know?  Just get moving.  And in the end I did play a lot better.  So I think it's good for me that, you know, to know I still wasn't playing my best tennis and I still had a good chance of winning.  And, you know, I don't want to peak too early now.  I mean, everything is for next week.  So, you know, it's good in a way to, you know  -- now I can have the extra time to work harder and go into the French. 

Q.  Do you think it is a surprise that Serena is playing two finals in a row on clay? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No.  I mean, it's not a lot of difference in the women's game, I mean, like men.  So I think it maybe changes it a little bit.   But basically, I mean, she's a good player and she can adapt on any surface - I mean, on the clay.  And she moved well.  I think she plays a lot better now than like let's say last year or other times I've played her on clay or seen her play on clay. 

Q.  Injury timeouts are a part of the game.  But would you say that was a strategic injury timeout, to get things slowed down?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I can't say.  I don't know, I mean, if she's really injured, but you want to give people the benefit of the doubt.  You have to take the timeout.  If I'm really injured and need it, you need it.  I mean, one has to make the personal choice the time they want to do it.  You know, if it's a real emergency, then, you know, you have to do it.  But if it's not so bad, then maybe, you know, you have to think about the time and when it's the best time to do it. 

Q.  Did you change your racquet after the first set?  

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No.  Just a little tension difference and, you know... 

Q.  More tense, less tense? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Less tense.  Because the balls were a little bit heavier today, so... I guess it worked a little bit. 

Q.  Do you go to Paris from here? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No.  I am going to Spain for a few days before there. 

Q.  Not playing? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No. 

Q.  After playing a couple of tournaments on red clay, do you think that now you are at the same level as last year? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, just about.  This week, you know, I have - like last year  - I took the week off and I just  -- I worked really hard.  You know, my trainer came over, so she's here.  And did the same thing last year.  So I think it will give me a little extra edge - hopefully.  But as far as the clay, I think, yeah, I'm playing just about the same.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT