TENNIS MASTERS SERIES - ROMA
May 17, 2002
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Was there something in her behavior that disturbed you on court? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, not at all.  Just there was something at that  -- a little mix-up when I was serving and I didn't know she was ready.  The, you know, whatever...  Just that happened, that little thing there.  
 
Q.  Roger just said that you got back to the No. 1 ranking.  What does that mean to you?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  That's great.  I mean, of course I'm happy about it.  And, I mean, I didn't know  - I thought maybe I had to win here or something to get to No. 1.  So, you know, I knew that I really had nothing to defend here, so this would be a good time.  But, you know, I wasn't paying attention to it.  But of course I'm very happy about it because, I mean, it means going into the French being the No. 1 seed.  And, you know, that's a good feeling.  
 
Q.  How can you sum up this match? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Sum it up?  Well, I played really well throughout the whole match.  Maybe I could have won in two sets.  But it was a good test for me.  You know, she played well in the second set.  And that third set, I think I played the important points probably better.  And, you know, at 2-love, when I was down 2-love, I really played well there to get it back.  After that, you know, maybe I gained the momentum back.  So it was a little bit streaky, you know.  Like I would have the momentum and maybe then she.  But in the end, I was more consistent.  
 
Q.  Did you feel a head drop when the umpire overruled the point that could have made it 3-1 for her in the final set? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No.  I mean, I don't remember that point.  
 
Q.  Your ball was called out.  It would have been 3-1 to Amelie.  Then the umpire overruled.  You eventually made it 2-2.  Did you see that as a key moment in the match? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No.  I mean, the ball's in, the ball's in, you know?  She didn't, like, lose the point.  So, I mean, I had overrules also.  And, I mean, it wasn't like that close of a time where, you know, that would happen.  And I could understand maybe another time but, you know...  She was the one that was ahead, so... 
 
Q.  You've been coming here a long time, since age 14, I believe, when much was made of your Italian heritage.  Is this a particularly good feeling to be finally doing so well in the tournament? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  I mean, it's like living up to all the hype now, finally  - about twelve years later (smiling).  No, I had some good memories in the beginning.  And just I haven't played so well here in the last couple years.   But it's not about that, you know, because of this particular tournament.  I'm just happy with the way I'm playing and, you know, just glad to go through and definitely be in this form, you know, going into the French.  
 
Q.  Is it true that you understand when the public cheers in Italian? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Some, yeah.  
 
Q.  Like what? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  (Laughing).  
 
Q.  Give us one or two in Italian.
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  "Forza," "Vai," "Brava." 
 
Q.  "Bella ragazza"?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, good play?  Is that "good play?"  
 
Q.  No, that means beautiful girl.
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Oh, (laughing).  Sorry.  
 
Q.  This week we saw you at least once in each match hitting a backhand and jumping and hitting it in the air.  Is that a new shot for you? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  I mean, a lot of the guys do it, I think.  And, yeah, I learned it from someone else, too.  But it's  - I don't know  - it feels natural for me.  And sometimes on certain shots, it's easier when the ball comes high.   Plus I, you know, my back.  I have a little  -- it's tightness.  So it helps.  I don't have to use my back so much.  So sometimes...  I definitely don't want to do it all the time.  But if I can do it, sure.   Plus, it's fun hitting it that way.  
 
Q.  After this victory, what are you going to do tonight?  Will you practice or rest?  How do you prepare for tomorrow? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I get a massage and go eat and have no trouble sleeping, I don't think.  And, you know, get ready for practice tomorrow, warm up.  
 
Q.  Your opponent tomorrow, your feelings on tomorrow's match? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, well, we don't know yet who I play.  They play tonight.  Until I know for sure, I'm not going to think about it or think of a game plan.  But my game plan is just to play my game and to play aggressive, keep playing aggressive.  I think I'm, you know, mixing it up well and attacking well and even coming to the net or thinking about coming to the net.  So, you know, I just play my game.  
 
Q.  Do you feel you play your best when you're threatened, as you did in Australia?  She had enough points in that third set. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  
 
Q.  Did something happen within you, do you think? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I think I try to raise it up a level, for sure.  You know, I figure, "Can't get much worse, I'm about to lose."  So my mentality's to go for it.  And sometimes it doesn't work.  But, you know, I guess I do play better that way, when I realize I have to really -- it's like all or nothing now.  And, you know, I'm trying to work on that from the get-go, to try to play that kind of way.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT