TENNIS MASTERS SERIES - ROMA
May 14, 2002
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Jennifer, you see these new faces all the time when you play first- and second-round matches.  As new faces go, how would you describe her today? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  She's a new face for me  - well, I've seen her around.  
 
Q.  Have you?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  I mean, I know who she is.  I just never played her before.  I actually have never seen her play, I've just seen her around.  And, you know, you never know what these girls are going to come in with and what they're going to play like.  So I just try to make sure that I'm playing my best and that I am, you know...  That's the way I practice against all kinds of players, just so I'm prepared against someone who might play a different kind of tennis.  
 
Q.  How shocked were you when she broke you to love in the opening game? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I don't know.  That's happened to me before, so...  It's, I mean, the first game.  It's kind of early in the day so I'm not quite maybe warmed up.  And, you know, I just wasn't worried too much about it.  I just know I can rely on my return game also, so that's why I try to come back stronger the next game  - not get down too much.  
 
Q.  This is your first win here for nine years, would you believe?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I know.  Yeah.  
 
Q.  Do those kind of things go into your mind at all or not?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Actually, that's probably why I played so well, because I did not expect anything - like to win or anything.  Because I thought, you know, nine years already, I'm, you know... Would be a miracle if I won, so... (Laughing).  
 
Q.  What has traditionally been the problem for you here?  Has it been something specific about the courts, the environment? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I don't know.  The first few years, I was just coming back.  So that's, you know, it wasn't just this tournament, it was many tournaments.  Then last year, whatever, you know, played at night.  And sometimes, you know, the balls are heavy.  And depends who I play.  It just doesn't suit my game, everything slows down.  I mean, I think I play better on the faster surfaces.  So it's just been the conditions and my opponent.  I mean, last year, you know, Kuti Kis played well.  I think it was Sidot the year before.  So these are good players.  
 
Q.  Having defended a title once in Australia, is it a bit easier now going into the French, since you've been through it once? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  I mean, in a way I know that, I mean, I can do it; I've done it before.  So it's not like, you know, an impossible task.  But the more I look at it as being difficult, I mean, I think the better I play.  Because I really, you know, from the get-go I know that I have to play well and I've got a lot at stake and I want to defend.  And I really like that feeling  - especially this year, the way I was able to come back.  And so although I just  -- I have to forget that, too.  And this is a new tournament, a new time.  I mean, different surface and everything.  There's a lot of girls that have a lot of chances to win it.  So, I mean, I know it's just going to be very tough whether I'm defending or not.  
 
Q.  Andre said the other day that Rome, out of the four Slams, is the tournament with the most tradition, a lot of history, the one he'd like to win. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Who, Andre?  
 
Q.  Andre Agassi, yes.  Do you agree with him on this answer to Rome or no? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  (Laughing)... I don't know, maybe he's trying to be nice because he's here.  I don't know (laughing).  I could say the same thing now, yeah...  I mean, for me, this tournament is special, you know, because I think my heritage a little bit.  But also, I mean, there's others besides the Grand Slams.  I mean, winning in my hometown  - my hometown, let's say for instance at the NASDAQ  - you know, that's an  important tournament for me.  So there's different ones, you know.  But this is among them (smiling).  
 
Q.  I apologize if you already talked about this, but do you want to talk about the Billie Jean King affair? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I've already talked about it  - not here.  But, I mean, I released, you know, in my statement mostly everything I wanted to say.  
 
Q.  That's okay.  What actually happened?  She confronted you? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  (Smiling)... I mean, the details, I really don't want to get into the details.  But pretty much, you know, everything that I said in the statement.  I mean, I think it's just something that I'm going to be quiet on and not really say.  There's just no need to talk about it.  It's something, I think, stupid that happened, and I'd just like to forget about it as soon as possible.  And no matter who was right, who was wrong, whatever, it's just important now, and my career's important now and the future's important, so... 
 
Q.  You were very motivated to come back and to win the first Slam, then to do it again.  Now what is your next motivation?  Do you want to win Roland Garros again, or you have in your mind another goal? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Uhm... I mean, before I retire, for sure I'd like to say I'd won all the Grand Slams - Wimbledon, the US Open.  But, you know, every one is important for me.  And, you know, I'm not going to forget about this one just because I want the other ones.  I mean, who knows what could happen.  
 
Q.  If you could pick one, your next one? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, I don't want to say because it's just  -- I don't want to have a letdown, you know, if I say and then I don't do it.  So, I mean, I think Wimbledon, you know.  The ones that I haven't won would be very special for me.  
 
Q.  You've been in tennis for a few years.  Now you just mention the word "retire."  You said, "when I will retire," I guess that's a long time.  But do you see yourself still playing tennis at 32 years old like Andre Agassi, or you think it would be a nightmare?  What would you like?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, now, I mean, I can tell you that now it's probably going to be pretty tough for me to keep playing, I mean, that long.  I don't know how he does it, it's pretty incredible.  You know, just because of the physical parts, you know.  And my body  -- and I don't know if  -- it's all in the head, too.  But, I mean, it's tough, it's hard work.  So, you know, who knows what could happen.  But I don't want to think about it.  I mean, just keep going.  And, who knows, maybe I'll be 32 sitting here and saying the same thing (smiling).  So I don't know.  
 
Q.  You were talking on TV about the race for No. 1 and the constant pressure.  Is there part of you that gets a kick out of that, of being driven on like that?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, sure.  That's constantly being talked about.  It means that, you know, I'm there and it's so close.  But I really  -- I mean, I don't pay attention to the ranking.  I mean, of course it's in my mind somewhere.  But, me, I'm just trying to play and win the tournaments.  And, you know, I mean, I hardly ever look at the points and see who's ahead and how far she's ahead of me, or I'm ahead of her and this tournament, you know...  I let everyone else do that because that would just, I mean, make me crazy I think.  You know, every match, this and that.  So I just play and then whatever happens, happens.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT