US OPEN
September 1, 2004
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  What was it like for you in the first set tonight versus the first set in your first-round match?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  You know, it's the first round, first round of a big Grand Slam, a big tournament, so it's kind of a lot of things going into it, a little bit of nerves.  You're just kind of feeling the opponent out.  Besides the opponent coming out and playing really well in the first set, I mean, it wasn't just all my fault, you know.  And tonight I just felt I was a little bit into it a little more as far as the kinks, you know, a lot of the kinks out.  And just felt more comfortable out there moving.  You know, I know Magui, too, can be a really tough, tricky player.  I just was more concentrated.


Q.  What were you most pleased about in your game?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Tonight?


Q.  Yeah.

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, actually, I think I hit a couple of good backhands that I was like pretty happy with.  Then, you know, my serve, I popped a good one, few good ones in.  And, you know, pretty much all around.  You know, being able to handle her slice pretty good, because that's, you know, it can be tricky.


Q.  Do you like kind of the feeling you're gaining momentum as you move along in a tournament?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I mean, you want to play, you want to come out and play hard because you're playing for those big matches when they come.  And you can't just all of a sudden expect to just turn it on when you want.  I think if you just play every match, you know, from the beginning like that, you know, then you just get into that mental focus and into that frame of mind of just, you know, so it's like you're just used to playing like that, not all of a sudden coming out playing a big player like Serena or something, you can't just do that, you know, pull it out of your pocket.


Q.  As a follow-up question to that, tonight you seemed so focus on the match even when it looked like you were going to win.  How do you maintain the high intensity level throughout the match?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  It's something I've worked on a lot, you know, I've been working on for the last year or so, or even couple years.  It's not an easy task.  I think it's something that you do, every player has to work on.  You know, it starts from, you know, the practices, you know, just maintaining the focus.  I mean, even just, you know, you don't want to play loose shots I mean because you practice what you want to play like.  So, you know, I think today was a good step for me to -- I was better at it, for sure, tonight.


Q.  You're not looking at all in the future towards Venus coming up at all?  Is that on your mind at all?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  You mean Serena?


Q.  I mean Serena, sorry.

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, I'm really not.  Just one at a time, you know.  I'm just, like I said before, just playing every match like it's how I want to play, you know, in the big matches to come.  And, you know, hopefully that will help me if I get there.


Q.  So even with Serena in your quarter, you don't start sizing her up at this point and looking at her matches and that sort of thing?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I mean, I look at how everybody's playing, you know.  It's not just one specific person so... But, you know, the focus right now is just on how I'm playing and the rest I, you know, I really can't control so...


Q.  You didn't even sneak a peek at what she was wearing today?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, not really.  I mean of course I saw what it looked like, but...


Q.  Is there any talk about her outfits in the locker room at all, what she's wearing?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No.


Q.  This tournament now has been very formful, very few of the seeds, either the men or the women, have lost.  How much of that do you attribute to having 32 seeds rather than 16?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I mean, you still have your upsets here and there.  So it's just like, I mean, as far as a tournament, I mean, you have to, you know, maybe give advantage to the players that have been playing well all year long and, you know, deserve to be, you know, have a better draw than others.  So, you know, it's tough in the first few rounds.  I mean, that's the whole idea of, you know, it's just you can't come out right off the bat, and you need those matches.  So I think it's good.


Q.  Are you comfortable with the level you're at right now, or do you feel you have to pick it up to go deep into the draw or are you playing good enough right now to make a run?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think I'm playing good enough.  I mean, I'm a bit of a perfectionist, especially lately.  I mean, just -- I mean, I can't expect to not make any errors or just hit every shot perfect.  But realistically, probably I am playing good enough.  So maybe if I don't even think so, if I still, you know, have a little level to get up there, I think, you know, that's what I'll just keep working on for the next match.


Q.  You may have already addressed this.  The greatest difference, did you feel that way two days ago, I mean, the level of your play seems to have...?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, well, I mean, I don't want to go three sets and I want to come out and, you know, play as good as I can and save as much energy as I can out there.  And, you know, mentally, for the other players, too, not let them see that I'm vulnerable.  So I think just -- bunch of things.  I think it was a good match, actually, the first one.  Because I spent some time out there and I was able to get a good rhythm, and I felt like that tonight, that I had a good rhythm out there.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT