NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 30, 2002
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  How much do you think the schedule hurt you?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, maybe it made a little difference, I don't know.  Probably, maybe would have been a bit fresher.  I would have  -- it would have helped on those important points.  But I really, I mean, I can't say whether it made a difference or not.  Because I was still fighting pretty hard, and then still felt pretty good out there.  I mean, maybe just losing the first set and had a little bit of a letdown.  But I came back pretty strong.  I feel like I was kind of ahead, and pretty much in control the whole match.  So, you know, it's a little disappointing. 
 
Q.  That compounds the frustration then, does it, to feel like you're ahead so much? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  I mean, you know, if I would have, you know, won the first set, and I could have held in the second, who knows.  Maybe it could have been me who won in two sets, you know?  But it was just really close, and she played really well on those points, on the important points.  It's not like I gave it away.  I mean, she really earned it I think.  
 
Q.  Was the crowd or were the calls more of a distraction for you? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Can you stop that flash, please?  It's pretty bright.  What was that?  Sorry.  
 
Q.  Was the crowd more of a distraction or were the calls more of a distraction? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Nothing really was, like, a distraction.  I mean, the crowd a little bit.  They were just really into the match.  And there was a lot of screaming and yelling going on.  But for both of us, you know, I think it was the same.  You know, just, you know, before we were serving and stuff like that.  Just, it's hard to maybe keep concentrated.  
 
Q.  How difficult is it to pick up your game when your opponent is making a lot of mistakes and then cracking some winners. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Sorry, when my opponent is?  
 
Q.  Making a lot of mistakes and cracking some winners.  How difficult is it to pick up your game in that situation? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  If she is or I am?  
 
Q.  For you. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Me?  
 
Q.  No, she is. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  I think it's a little difficult to get a rhythm, you know, because, I mean, that's the hardest part about playing her.  You just never know what's going to happen.  And, you know, it's just  -- it's not consistent.  It's not like, you know, you can get a real groove or anything.  It's either like a few mistakes and then a few winners, or sometimes she's pushing it or sometimes she's hitting it really hard.  So it's difficult.  
 
Q.  3-3 in the first set.  Serena's serving.  30-love on you.  Share with us what you asked the woman in the chair. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I don't remember. 
 
Q.  You don't remember going up to the chair umpire and complaining about the call at 30-love? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I don't know.  Maybe it was the serve or something I complained about.  I don't recall.  I don't remember.  I'm sorry.  
 
Q.  You went over and pointed to some mark just behind the baseline. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I don't remember.  I'm sorry.  
 
Q.  What was the problem in the first set, you took all of your racquets out of the bag.  Suddenly you seemed disappointed because of something. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, well, it was very humid today.  And I was used to playing night matches, so I guess the tension in the strings, you know, loses a lot of tension.  There were some old racquets, and they weren't freshly strung yet, so I had to wait for the freshly strung ones.  
 
Q.  If you got into a third set after two hours in that kind of heat, how would you feel about your chances?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think I would have been so pumped up to be in the third, you know, that I would have just been going on adrenaline I think.  I would have just been, you know, I'd have thought to myself, "I'm in a third set, this is it, so I might as well..."  Can take a break after this.  
 
Q.  What was the most important thing that you learned today playing?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean... I don't really know yet.  I haven't thought about it just yet.  I'll probably go back and think about it and see what I could have done different.  
 
Q.  Is it very different to play Venus or Serena? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  It's different because Serena is more erratic and maybe Venus can get a little more of a rhythm going.  But, I mean, they both move incredibly well, and that's  -- there's a lot of similarities but there's some differences, too. 
 
Q.  Is it frustrating to keep getting a deuce, deuce, deuce? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, of course it is.  Especially when it's your ad, then it's frustrating.  
 
Q.  Were there shades of last year when you had all those matchpoints and this time all those set points?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, that didn't come into my mind at all.  I don't think it was even  -- it was similar.  
 
Q.  How do you account  -- now last year, you had all those matchpoints.  Yet some people wouldn't have slept for months, but you came back and played better.  How do you account for that? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, I look at it as, you know, it was that close that next time, you know, I could  -- just a point, that I could definitely win next time.  Or what do I have to do next time?  You know, and plus my mom, I remember she got the hip replacement.  So there was a lot of stuff going on that really was more important than crying over a  --. 
 
Q.  Spilled matchpoints. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Right.  
 
Q.  Serena says that her goal for this year is to become No. 1.  Do you think she has the potential? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Sure.  I mean, if she keeps winning and is consistent and, you know, to be No. 1 you have to play a lot.  And you have to do well in every tournament.  We'll have to see.  
 
Q.  Is this lost a little harder to take because it's Key Biscayne in Miami, your backyard?  Or it doesn't matter? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, it doesn't matter.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT