NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 28, 2002
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Jennifer talk about the match.  Unbelievable. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I mean, it was definitely a thriller for the crowd and for us, too.  I think we both played well.  We gave it all we got, and some of our best tennis came out.  The key was for me to be aggressive on some points, but I think I served well and it was very important that I didn't get broken in that third set - at all.  And, you know, we were point for point.  And, you know, it was just a matter of a couple points.  And that was it. 

Q.  Think you faced a couple matchpoints.  Could you talk about turning that around, the last tiebreaker. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, I just go for it, and it seems to work my way.  Not all the time does it work my way, but, you know, it was like it was tough that there had to be a loser tonight because I think we both, you know, should have won, if there is a possible way for that.  But, you know, I went for it and I guess the Gods were on my side tonight. 

Q.  A lot of people predicting Saturday's final.  Can you talk about what you expect Saturday. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I mean, hopefully, you know, I'll come out and not be flat-footed.  I mean, you know, I've had some really tough matches, and especially playing twice the second night match in a semifinal.  And, you know, we're both giving it our all, and, you know, the way they scheduled it, I mean, not even the whole crowd was even there to witness this match.  And, you know, but we'll see.  I just have to come out and give it all I got.  I mean, whatever happens, happens. 

Q.  Jennifer, congratulations.  It was a big match.  After Australia, I remember your father said you won that match against Hingis with your heart.  What can we say tonight?  It was really extraordinary. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, well, it wasn't given to me; that's for sure.  I mean, I had to work for it.  I mean, we were both so close and it could have gone either way.  I went for it, and it paid off.  I think we were both winners tonight. 

Q.  But how your mind works in those moments, any moment you were able to lose and any moment to win.  How do you keep going like that? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, I can't really explain it.  It's just a natural  --.

Q.  Do you tell yourself, "Next point I will make it," something?  What is your inside telling you while you were defending or attacking? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, well, the way I played the points looked like I was attacking 'cause, you know, I made winners on one  -- I made a winner on one.  I just say to myself, "Just go for it."  And I really don't want to think about it, no time to think.  I missed a few easy shots, and I probably thought about it too much.  But on those matchpoints, it's like, you know, there's no time to think.  And I feel like I really have to make it.  So I do. 

Q.  What was the feeling once the battle was over?  It was a real battle. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Relief.  You know, I just can't believe that I won, you know.  And it was such a close match, difficult match.  You know, I just was fighting for two hours or whatever, over two hours.  Then all of a sudden it's over, so...

Q.  From outside, one thought that both of you found inspiration watching the guys before you because they always gave a big performance for the spectators.  You, you reached the highest level as well, no?  Did you see something of the Safin match against Hewitt? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, not at all.  I mean, I was more pissed off that they were going three sets because I wanted to get on the court (laughter). 

Q.  So there was no inspiration on that?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No. 

Q.  Jennifer, do you feel because you've been tested in a few matches you really feel like you're ready for a final? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I don't think I can get more ready than this.  Maybe, you know, hopefully I won't come out and be drained.  You know, it's a pretty early final.  So, you know, that's why I just got to rest and probably won't even do anything tomorrow.  So...

Q.  What are your thoughts about facing Serena and the problems that her game will pose? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Uhm... Well, I mean, it's, in a way it's sort of similar to Monica.  But, you know, I feel like I have a tougher time against Monica than almost Serena.  I mean, if Serena's just having an incredibly on day, then it's tough.  But Monica keeps the pressure on.  And with Serena, if you can get the balls back, you know, she can  -- she'll make a mistake.  She makes more mistakes.  But obviously, the biggest thing is her serve and returning well. 

Q.  Jennifer, would you have preferred to play first tonight? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Oh, yeah.  Absolutely.  Or at least, I mean, I think they could have started it earlier.  I mean, it's a semifinals, you know.  What time is it?  One o'clock? 

Q.  12:30. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Okay, well... Whatever. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT