NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 27, 2002
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  After this match, how do you feel for the final game on Saturday? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, first is the semifinals so I have to go one at a time.  So, for the next match I feel pretty good.  I think I played well today. 

Q.  You are hitting the ball harder.  What do you do in practice? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Today? 

Q.  Yeah, today.  Practice before.  I saw you here. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I felt better today, more fresh and stronger, because yesterday I had a day off.  So I felt like I wasn't tired today. 

Q.  Overall how do you feel like you've been playing in this tournament? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Good.  I'm happy with the way I've been playing.  You know, it's showing now.  I was able to get through the first three matches that were pretty difficult.  My opponents played well.  You know, I was able to fight through.   Then today it shows that I'm playing a lot better and I'm getting into a better rhythm. 

Q.  You and Serena kind of have  -- this is kind of separate, but you and Serena are kind of similar in that you play "go for it" tennis.  She seems to have more errors.  Is that from going for it, hitting hard all the time?  If you try to play more conservative, would you have as many errors? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I don't think it's just about that.  I mean, I don't know, I don't know Serena's game.  I cannot comment on that.  But, you know, it has to do with technique, a lot of things.  So, you know, there's a right moment to go for it.  And, I mean, I don't just go for it on just anything.  I mean, I just go with my instincts basically.  But, yeah, you could say that in a small way we maybe play the same. 

Q.  I know it's looking ahead, but in the event you would play Venus in the finals, is that something on your mind from last year, something you would look forward to, getting a chance to play her again? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I don't want to comment unless that happens (smiling). 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT