NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 24, 2002
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  What was happening with your serve?  You obviously were struggling? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I don't think  -- yeah, I had some double-faults, but I had some good serves also.  And, you know, she was returning well and that was putting a little pressure.  But, you know, I wasn't missing by much.  It was just, you know, sort of like how my game was in the beginning, just kind of on everything.  I was just missing by just a little bit.  And I think it was just probably on the second serve didn't have a good rhythm on it.  But I think overall, I mean, that shouldn't stand out.  Because it was a great match, and I think I played pretty well. 
 
Q.  Down 5-4 in the second, did you think she had you?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I never think that.  I never give up till the last point.  I thought I'd been  -- both of us had been returning better than serving.  And I felt pretty confident still, that I would be able to break and just apply the pressure and, you know, I had been playing well.  I thought I'd just go for it.  And if she's going to beat me, she has to keep playing like she had been playing.  I was just playing really well.  She wasn't missing anything.  I have to give full credit to her. 
 
Q.  What do you think turned the match your way in the last five games?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Last five games, well, I think I wasn't missing very much.  Maybe I could sense that maybe she was getting a little bit tired also so she started missing a little bit more than what she had been.  And I was just maybe a little more aggressive at that point.  
 
Q.  Is this what you can expect being No. 1, getting everybody's best tennis coming at you? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  It's not only now that I'm No. 1, I mean it's always  -- I've always kind of felt that before, that everyone sort of steps it up against me.  I don't know, I sort of make them play better.  You know, it's the first time I played her, so she's obviously a good player.  And, you know, I guess maybe it's the consistency that she can play good matches and then have, you know  -- play worse.  I don't know her ranking, but I think she should be ranked a lot higher than she is.  She's definitely a good player. 
 
Q.  Off of the tennis, do you happen to recall how you heard about the September 11th stuff, where you were?  How did you hear? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I was in New York, like, two days before that for the US Open.  Everyone was there.  So I just heard it, I was home.  
 
Q.  Do you think that a lot of things have changed in terms of what you see out there in the world? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I think maybe here, in home territory, the Americans are trying to come together a little bit more.  But maybe not as much as you would think, because something like this happened.  
 
Q.  You said you felt even before you were No. 1 you were getting everybody's best tennis.  Why do you suppose that is?  Why is everybody coming for you? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, maybe it's just the kind of game I play.  Like you just, you know, it kind of makes people play better against me because I, you know, if they can handle, like, a hard-hitting ball, it's like I give good rhythm, I think, to the other players. So it's like, just get into a good rhythm and get psyched up and I don't know... They just do (smiling).  
 
Q.  How much did the crowd help you today? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  They helped a little bit.  But, you know, I was kind of trying to block everything out.  Because in a way, too, you know, it's like every time I just missed a ball, I heard the moan from the crowd.  You know, that's frustrating, too, to kind of hear that.  So I just try to, like, block everything out, whether it be good or bad.  And, you know, I just wanted to stay  -- I had to be really concentrated today out there.  
 
Q.  Martina and Serena had easy matches today.  What are the positives for you, if any, to have a difficult match like this so early in the tournament? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, well, hopefully I'm in good shape that I can just recover.  It wasn't like it was just a really difficult match, so I think I should be okay.  And, you know, just the court time.  Just to get out there and, you know, definitely I feel like I have a good rhythm now and am used to the center court and being out there.  So physically, I mean, I don't think it will bother me at all.  
 
Q.  You rode with the dolphins at the Sea Aquarium, you got a new Ferrari, it's been a pretty good week. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  So it's time to play some tennis now.  
 
Q.  Was that Matthew Perry sitting with your folks? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Uh-huh.  
 
Q.  Is that coincidence, or...? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, we've been hanging out a little.  He's just a friend.  Yeah, "Friend" (smiling).  
 
Q.  Does he come to a lot of your tournaments?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No.  This is just the first one.  
 
Q.  How did you meet him? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Okay.  This is just the last question that I'm going to answer about that.  He came and presented me the award, the Sports Illustrated award.  So that's how I kind of  -- I met him.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT