NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 23, 2002
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  So, what do you think of today from your side?  Your thoughts on the match? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think I played very well today considering it's the first match and I played a tough opponent.  I really concentrated well, and I think I moved well and I've been training pretty hard.  I took the week off to not play in Indian Wells, took that week to really train hard.  And I felt good coming in to this match.  I'm pleased with the way I played. 

Q.  Jennifer, you hear a lot about match toughness.  Are you the kind of player that feels that you get as much out of your practice time as you do out of matches in some situations? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, they are completely different.  But I've been doing this so long that I pretty much know, you know, what it's like, the difference is going to be like from practice to playing matches.  And, you know, I know how to set it up where even my practices, I can try to get in that mode and that concentration mode.  And it's not like I wait too long anyways.  I try not to wait.  And sometimes, you know, just at the year-end break, that's really the longest I'll go without playing a match.  Of course then it takes a little while, but it's such a short time, there's not really much to lose. 

Q.  You seem to play at a faster pace than most of the players.  Are you always in a hurry? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I just can't wait to play the next point.  So...

Q.  If you think you're playing well now, what would you want to work on as you head toward the later rounds?  What do you think could be better?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, so far for what I had to play, the kind of game I had to play and that level that was played today, I think I played well.  And I think if I was, you know, playing someone who's higher ranked or who is a better player, I think also there's a lot left that I could have risen my level.  So, I mean, it was just a good match.  Overall, I still had like a good feeling.  I mean, it's hard to say because I really wasn't put to the test that much.  So I don't know.  But, you know, I feel like, you know, there's not much. 

Q.  Did you want a harder match to come right in?  Obviously, it's nice to...? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  It wasn't as easy as it looked.  You know, the points were long, there was a lot of good rallies, it was pretty hot out there.  So, no, I didn't really want, like, a really difficult match.  I want to save my energy, of course, til the end of the week. 

Q.  Did last year's loss stick with you a little longer than most do? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Not really.  I don't know if you remember, my mom got a hip replacement right, like, the next day, the next few days.  So I just forgot about the match really, because there's something more important to think about and to be upset about - or worried about. 

Q.  How is daddy?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  How is daddy?  He's doing good, thanks (smiling). 

Q.  What is it like to drive that Ferrari around?  It seems like it stops everybody in their tracks.

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I'm really not noticing what's going on around me at all.  I'm just so oblivious to everything.  I'm in my own world when I'm driving it.  I don't know, it's  -- I didn't think I would get so excited ever about a car.  But once you get used to it, you kind of forget that you're just really in a car like that, because it's pretty normal to drive.  I mean, the inside looks like every other car.  You know, it's really not like, you know, you're getting into the same cars that are on the tracks.  It's practical on the inside still. 

Q.  Do you still have to stop yourself from going to the back to pick up  -- to get your stuff out, you know, with the trunk being in the front? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I'm sort of used to that because the Porsches are the same way, so I've had one of those before, so...  Usually I don't put anything in the car anyway. 

Q.  The red, was that a new twist?  The red outfit?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  The outfit today? 

Q.  Yeah. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  That was something for Fila, me and Fila agreed upon, and for Ferrari.  Fila owns Ferrari, so it's an advertisement for them.  I probably won't be wearing that all the time.  It was just kind of a special thing.  That's what, you know, makes it so unique, is just to wear it once.

Q.  Would you ever have considered buying a Ferrari just on your own if this opportunity hadn't come up? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Maybe before I actually got it, I wouldn't.  But now that I have it and see what a great car it is and how it's really not that difficult to drive, I would consider it, yeah. 

Q.  Are you getting any kidding about that in the locker room?  It seems to be the talk of the place, at least among the media?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, it's a big deal.  I think it's something different, you know, than the usual.  So, yeah, I mean, the players are just asking me, you know, for rides (smiling).   You know... Even the guy players now are just talking to me more.  I guess because they think I'm cool now or something; I don't know (laughing). 

Q.  So three Grand Slams, but it takes a Ferrari?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Right, right.  Whatever.  It's a male thing I guess, I don't know (smiling). 


End of FastScripts…

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT