SANEX CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 2, 2001
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  You fought very hard.  She played very well.  Were you a bit under the weather?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I'm not going to lie and say I wasn't.  Last few days have been sort of tough.  Yeah, it was just a combination of not the opponent I wanted to play when I'm not feeling a hundred percent.  But I felt like I was okay to go out there and play, and I did.  So, you know, I've got to give the credit to her.

Q.  You had a lot of breakpoints through that match, didn't you?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I did.  You know, I had a lot of chances, different kinds of chances.  The second set, you know, I really gave it a lot.  You know, just kind of had different times where I would go up and kind of like fall down a little bit, you know, just in the third set especially.

Q.  What was the problem exactly?  You had some flu or something?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I had a sore throat infection and fever.  I mean, that's all I can say.  I mean, I had the doctors here look at me.  But, you know, I didn't have it really diagnosed.  It could have been Strep throat.

Q.  Was it tougher mentally or physically when you were on the court?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  A little bit of both.  It was hard for me to like really concentrate because I just felt kind of light-headed out there.  You know, I've just been taking a lot of medicine, so...

Q.  So how disappointing is that for the last tournament of this season?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  It's bad luck, unfortunately.  I feel like I just couldn't go a hundred percent, you know, and give it my best.  But, you know, that's probably any other tournament I probably wouldn't have played.  But since it was the last tournament of the year, you know, I don't want to just pull out.  You know, but still I think I fought well.  Now I can just rest.

Q.  So you deserve a good rest now?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, for sure now.

Q.  If you had to play yesterday, would you have had to pull out?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Probably.

Q.  Was it clearly affecting your mobility and your strength, did you find, as well?  I know you don't want to make excuses. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, I think I was just getting winded a little bit out there more than I usually do.  I felt out of it.  Just in the first set, I mean, I didn't even know the score at one point.  I was just kind of delirious out there.  I mean, I was just in bed all day, two days ago, whenever that was.  A little bit, yeah. 

Q.  Were you influenced by the expectations that have been turned around during the last few days, that you felt some pressure to keep No.  1?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  You mean did that have anything to do with me getting sick? 

Q.  No.  Did it affect you mentally on the court?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No.  I mean it didn't really have anything to do with that out there today.  You know, I was just mainly trying to, you know, feel better out there and try to concentrate and focus on running and playing, you know, just trying to concentrate.  But, you know, I guess that was in the back of my mind because I didn't feel so great.  I wasn't thinking about that at all.

Q.  So how do you cope in general with being the favorite in a match?  No one expected Sandrine to win. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I mean, they're wrong.  Anything can happen.  Sandrine is a good player.  She beat me a couple weeks ago.  You know, she played well.  Today wasn't my best day. 

Q.  Since the US Open, it's been a little up and down.  You haven't had the same kind of consistent results you had before.  Is there any reason for that?  Do you feel fresh now, aside from being ill, as you did before The Open?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I only played three tournaments.  You know, the first tournament I guess was really the only one.  Just that was the semis.  Well, I guess every match now that I lose because I'm No.  1, it's like a bad result.  You know, it's no reason.  I mean, end of the year.  I sort of maybe  -- you know, it's not the same kind of energy, of course.  It's like the end of a long year.  You know, maybe once I did get to the No.  1, I sort of relaxed a little bit.  You know, of course that makes everyone play better, I think.

Q.  Against you, you mean?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  I mean, maybe my intensity is not like the beginning, you know, the beginning of the year, but not on purpose.  It's just kind of natural, you know, kind of a little bit of a letdown.

Q.  Lindsay was saying the other day, it should be The Majors who decides who gets the No. 1, but she'll take it if she gets it.  How would you feel if she were to pass you?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, doesn't really matter.  I mean, everyone's so close, you know, between 1 and 2 and 3.  Yeah, I mean, she was saying she doesn't deserve it, maybe Venus deserves it, and Venus is not playing.  I mean, it doesn't really matter to me.  I know I've gotten there at least, I've been No.  1.  You know, next year start over again. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT