US OPEN
September 7, 2001
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Did she upgrade her game in the first set or something slide from yours?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think she cut down a little bit on the mistakes.  But I think I definitely ran out of gas there a little bit.  You know, it's just the first match that I really had to, you know, run down a lot of balls, you know, work the point so much, every point.  I mean, the wind was on one side, was so hard to get the ball over the net, then the other side you just didn't want to hit the fence.  You know, fighting through that.  I think it all just took its toll.  I mean, she played great.  I think she, you know, was making some unbelievable gets. 

Q.  A lot of very close calls late in the first set.  Did that strike you at all going into the second?  You seemed a little frustrated for a while still. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I just  -- no, it wasn't because of that.  You know, I was just a little mad at myself because I felt that the first set was mine.  You know, I was just a little mad about that.  And then I just knew I was just running out of gas.  To go like another two long sets like that.  You know, I feel like I'm in good shape.  But, you know, I guess within two weeks, it's tough to maintain that level of fitness, especially when you're not really doing anything, especially waiting around, you know, to play doubles and such.  So you lose a little bit of that edge.  Especially, you know, it really being the first match, you know, at this level, you know, I could definitely feel it. 

Q.  What are the signs that you were running out of gas?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Just that, I mean, I could just feel it in my legs.  I was making errors that I usually don't make.  Those errors, I think a lot of it came from a little bit of fatigue.

Q.  Did you have a chance to watch on TV the first match?  If so, do you have a feeling either way about who the favorite would be in the finals?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I watched a little bit.  But, you know, I just played Serena anyways.  She's been playing well.  And Venus played well today.  I mean, it's a tough call, I guess, who's going to win between the both of them. 

Q.  Can you sum up the season?  You won two out of the four majors, became a factor again. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, it's been a great season.  I'm glad I ended it the way I did.  You know, I'm just a little tired right now.  You know, the year's not over yet.  Obviously, the most important ones are over with.  You know, it just gives me still an incentive to come back next year and try to win the ones that I haven't won.  So that's still a goal that I have.  You know, I'm definitely going to look back on this year.  It's going to be one of the greatest ones of my life.

Q.  Is there anything about the US Open that would leave you or any player (inaudible) the commuting, the courts, anything else that we don't understand?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I guess maybe a little bit of the commuting.  It's tough.  I mean, you never know what it's going to be in the traffic.  You know, that's tough to gear up.  The long days, just means you can't just go back and forth, you know, to your hotel.  You know, when you're playing doubles and stuff, you know, just waiting around.  You know, I mean, it's pretty crazy around the grounds, a lot of people.  But it also, you know, adds to it.

Q.  You had a number of chances.  One of the last ones may have been at 4-2, you were down.  Flat footed at the center of the court, the volley that went wide.  Can you talk about how you felt at that moment, not after the ball went out, but physically at that juncture?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Like I said before, you know, balls that I just normally don't miss, you know, I was missing.  That shot was just a tired shot.  I mean, it was just hard anyways.  Because, like I said, the wind was pretty strong out there. 

Q.  Had a factor in that point?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think pretty much in every point it was a factor. 

Q.  How much is not getting to No.  1 because you lost today adding to the disappointment?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I'm pretty close.  I'm not too disappointed about it.  You know, the ranking really is not something I've been really thinking about anyways.  I'm just happy that I am where I am.  You know, I just would have liked to have done better this match, you know, played better, felt better out there.  But still, the year's not over, so...

Q.  You came out so strong in those first few games, very aggressive.  Is it possible that you expended maybe more energy than you thought and that's why the reserve wasn't there in the second set?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think definitely that's definitely what happened.  I mean, like I just was pushing so hard just to come out and get a lead.  I guess I didn't realize, you know, how much energy I was actually using in that wind also.  I had nothing in reserve.  I just feel like I used it all.  You know, she just started playing better, too. 

Q.  This is such a big stage.  It's such an emotional and long ride through a tournament.  As someone who has a sibling, can you imagine what it might be like to play your sibling in the final of this kind of event?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, I can't even like really think about it.  I mean, I have no idea what that would be like.  You know, it's not something I would like.  I mean, I'm very close with my brother.  You know, I don't know the relationship.  I guess it's just a different story.  Just try to keep it professional.  You know, I have no idea what that would be like.  I probably wouldn't like it.

Q.  Do you think, having played against Venus and Serena, do you think they each have what it takes physically and are they mentally ready to play against each other in this kind of event?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I mean, I don't know what their attitude is going into it or mental thinking, if they're just thinking another opponent or what.  I mean, I would imagine it's not that difficult because, either way, the family wins anyways.  It's not that bad.

Q.  I know you would have wanted to see a Capriati-Williams final.  I know you're disappointed.  If you could describe what you think it means tomorrow night to have this on prime time for your sport, women's sports, to have it be such an attraction? 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think it's very good.  You know, it's only good for what's to come.  I mean, there's more to come, I think.  It's just a beginning for it.  You know, we'll see what kind of effect it has.  You know, it's all hyped up to be in the prime time.  I don't know how many people are actually going to be watching.  I'm sure a lot.  I'm sure it's going to be all worth it, so...

Q.  Did you mean that in particular because it's the Williams final or because it's the prime time final?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I just meant because it's a prime time final.

Q.  What do you think the all-Williams final does for the sport?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I have no idea. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT