US OPEN
September 5, 2001
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Looked like you hit the ball as well as you have tonight. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  It feels great, because especially this tournament, I think I've been able to play really well throughout in each round.  And this round, this match, I really knew how to step it up and play some of my best tennis, and I did. So, it shows to me that I'm just getting better each round.  You know, I feel like I'm ready for the next match.  
 
Q.  You played Venus, I guess, two times this year.  Each time you guys have played three-set matches.  What are you going to do that's a little different this time?  You're facing her again.  What are your thoughts?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Last time actually was two sets I think, in New Haven.  Yeah. But, I mean, you know, this will be the first time in a Grand Slam, so, you know, that will be a little bit different.  And it's gonna be a big crowd, crazy crowd.  And, you know, hopefully if I get into the situation that I was in like at the Ericsson, you know, hopefully, I would have learned from that experience, from that match and, you know, take advantage of my chances there. And really, I'm just going to try to play within myself, not play too hard or feel like I have to overdo it because I'm playing her.  So really just play my game and, you know, whatever happens, happens.  
 
Q.  This is the first time you'll be back in the semifinals for a decade, obviously.  It's a match the people are referring to.  Do you look back to that match?  Do you think how far you have come in that decade? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, I really haven't thought about it.  But now that you mention it, I'm just thinking about how everything's kind of changed.  Look how far the Open has come.  You have a brand new, huge stadium.  I mean, it's just an amazing event here, it's really blown up a lot.  Just tennis in general, I think, is so popular.  Women's tennis. So, it's just  -- I'm glad that still, ten years later, I'm able to be part of it.  
 
Q.  You made a reference in the stadium interview that you wanted to play quick because people wanted to see Pete and Andre.  It looked like you were really playing fast. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  I mean, it really wasn't for that (smiling).  But I just  -- really I just wanted to stay on top of her and not let her back in the match.  That's also something I've been working on, is just stay on top of them and try to bury them, you know, while I'm on top and not, you know, keep the high intensity through the whole match and not have lapses.   
 
Q.  Was that as confident as you've been the whole time?  It looked like you picked it up more and more as the match progressed?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I think I've been pretty confident like that throughout the tournament from the first match.  Maybe it was just being quarterfinals and really my chance to be in the semifinals again and, you know, just the crowd.  It was a big crowd.  It was really electric there, and I was just feeding off the crowd and the energy there.  So... 
 
Q.  Will you stay to watch Pete and Andre? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Probably, yeah.  See if it's a good match.  If it's good, I'll stay.  But it will be a lot of hype (laughing).  
 
Q.  Have you noticed, was there any other people in the tournament, men or women, who enjoy themselves as genuinely as you seem to out there? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, thanks. 
 
Q.  Do you notice anything like that, or don't you have time? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I don't really notice.  I mean, you can tell definitely in some people they're really enjoying themselves out there.  You know, I think for instance my doubles partner, Martina Hingis, like I think she loves being out there and she loves playing.  She wouldn't rather be anywhere else, so... Some, I can tell.  Others look really miserable out there, too (smiling).  
 
Q.  We in Russia love you.  When will you arrive in Moscow for our Kremlin Cup (placing tape recorder near Jennifer)? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I've never been to Russia and Moscow.  It's someplace I'd really love to go, it's just a very tough schedule in the fall there.  It's, you know, I already committed to a few tournaments.  Maybe playing there would be too much.  So maybe we have to talk about a little schedule change for the next year and maybe I'll go (smiling).  
 
Q.  Would you say Amelie was less confident than when she beat you in Berlin in May? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think maybe a little bit, I could notice.  I mean, she played really well in Berlin.  I mean, but also that's her surface, too, is the clay I think.  You know, so maybe she didn't feel as comfortable on this surface. And I think as the match went on, maybe, you know, her confidence level went down because I think I was playing well and she saw that I was playing well, and it was  -- you know, I wasn't gonna give her many chances. So maybe she started off the match playing okay, then after it just, you know, she started making more mistakes.  
 
Q.  Her forehand especially? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  She missed a lot of mistakes.  You know, I think it's just because I was just keeping the pressure on a lot.  So, I mean, that's what I wanted to do.  That was my intention. 
 
Q.  Since the draw came out, everyone's really been looking forward to you playing Venus, it's such explosive tennis when you play her.  Does it excite you to play her?  Do you enjoy playing her?  
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I mean I think that's what we live for, the players, is just to get in that moment and really have a challenge there and be challenged to just see if we can live up to it and play some good tennis.  And, yeah, I mean I always look forward to playing her.  I look forward to playing all the top players just because it's just a real test.  I know it's difficult.  And, I mean, that is the fun part also.  
 
Q.  After the French Open, you haven't won a title since then.  Losing the semifinals at Wimbledon, does that make you more motivated to end your Grand Slam year with a victory here? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  That and just also just being the US Open right now, the last Grand Slam of the year and, you know, being on my home turf.  It's just I really want to do well here.  I think I've already done well, but it would be great to win this one.  
 
Q.  You talked about you're glad that ten years later you're still part of it.  Is glad  -- is there another word to describe what you have done and accomplished this year?  Is it perhaps more than feelings of gladness?  What else is there? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I'm very happy, joyous, ecstatic (smiling).  It's a great sense of satisfaction, and I'm very grateful also.  
 
Q.  When is the last time you felt sorry for someone you were beating? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  (Smiling).  
 
Q.  Or did you ever? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, not anymore.  Maybe I used to when I was like 14 or something, you know, but not anymore.  Because just I know when people are beating me, they're not feeling sorry, so... (Smiling).  
 
Q.  You talked earlier about how ten years later it's your power game, that's what you've done.  And mentally, is that also a hallmark of your game right now, to have done what you did this year? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I think I'm mentally very strong.  You know, I think I've always been like that anyways, even when I was younger.  It's sort of just leaped into now.  Everything else has even developed into being stronger  - my tennis, the mental part.  And it's just, you know, I've graduated to being, you know, just a well-rounded tennis player and, yeah, in all areas of the game.  
 
Q.  Are you going to watch the Sampras-Agassi match? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, I think so.  Yeah.  
 
Q.  Are you staying? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think so, yeah.  I really want to watch it.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT