WIMBLEDON
July 2, 2001
Jennifer Capriati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Pleased with your performance today?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yes, very pleased.  I don't think there's much to be unhappy about today.  I think I did everything well.  So far this is the best I've played in the tournament yet.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about the confidence you have at the moment after what you've done in the Slams so far this year. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  There's nothing to it.  I just have confidence.  It helps with winning, especially winning two Grand Slams.  But really for me it's just winning matches over and over.  I just feel like I just am going for it more and not afraid to take chances.  You know, just aggressive overall.  And that comes from playing lots of matches and winning tough matches and just gaining confidence that way.  
 
Q.  It seems to me that the last time you got maybe even a little bit tight on the court was towards the end of the match with Serena in Paris.  After that, you then beat Martina and then the final.  You seem to have got rid of any sort of nerves you have. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think there's always going to be some nerves.  I mean, I don't think you're human if you don't have anything that comes up.  But I've learned how to deal with them when they come up.  I mean, I just sort of talk myself out of it.  You know, as long as  -- it's almost like not happening, it doesn't happen the day of the match.  It's already happening from the day before, before the tournament starts.  Just, you know, a certain mind frame that I try to go in.  And I think just, you know, certain things that stick in my mind.  You know, that helps me to be unnervous (sic), so... 
 
Q.  How do you talk yourself out when you feel those nerves?  What's the process of talking to yourself?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, I don't want to say exactly like what I say to myself (smiling).  It's just little things like, you know, "You've come this far.  It's just a game.  You know, there's nothing to be nervous about.  There's worse situations.  You know, just go out there, go for it, have fun.  Really, you've done well already."  You know, stuff like that that just keep me in the positive frame of mind.  You know, I think  -- the things I think about when I'm getting nervous, it's like out there, just a crazy person, some of the things that I'm thinking, so... It's better now. 
 
Q.  Did you find that happening to you in the final at the French, in Paris, or were you beyond it?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  What, being nervous and stuff?  
 
Q.  Yeah, feeling nervous, having to talk yourself out of it. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I guess I came out a little rattled about some things.  You know, just because I knew that I wasn't playing my best tennis in the beginning, and she was playing really well.  And the crowd, I wasn't used to, you know, the loud  -- certain things were just making me get a little bit edgy there.  That's when I talked to myself.  I said, "You're in the finals of the Grand Slam here.  You're not going to let these stupid things bother you and make you lose this match."  So after the first set, I just kind of calmed down, settled down, and I beared down and just tried to zone in on what I'm doing. 
 
Q.  The first couple days or last couple days Goran has been talking about his inner and outer Goran.  Everybody has had a great laugh over it.  Do you sort of understand what he's talking about?  You really have to work on yourself, calm yourself down?  Or does anyone understand what Goran is talking about?  I guess what I'm sort of saying is he's sort of battling with himself. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think everyone's different.  There's a lot of players that are actually like him, too, there's a lot going on inside.  You know, from the outside tennis is very quiet, looks very, you know, calm and everything, but inside just sometimes there's just a volcano waiting to erupt there.  I think we're just maybe too complex sometimes and make it more complicated than it is.  Really, it's not that tough.  It's just keep it simple.  I mean, you have to be a strong person to go out there and handle these situations and not let the pressure get to you.  You know, people don't realise how tough it actually is out there, so... 
 
Q.  You're making it look pretty easy, though. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No.  I mean, it's just whatever you get used to.  You know, when you're doing something for so long, I mean, I couldn't go in your position and do what you could.  
 
Q.  Yes, you could.  Yes, you could. 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Maybe some people I could (laughter).  But you know what I mean.  
 
Q.  Just how tough will your next match be? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think it's going to be extremely tough.  I haven't watched Serena play at all this tournament.  I mean, I assume she's playing really well because, I mean, all her scores; she hasn't really had difficult matches.  And I think she's probably going to be pretty eager, especially against me since I just beat her twice.  She probably wants to get revenge.  So it's just important for me to concentrate on my own game and just think about what I'm doing, and that's it.  See what happens. 
 
Q.  Will those wins give you extra confidence, that you can beat her again?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah.  But, I mean, I'm not going to think about those wins too much because every match is a new match.  It doesn't matter what you've done before.  It's just a totally different circumstance.  I mean, the grass makes it different.  So it's just knowing that I know how to play her and know how to beat her. 
 
Q.  Is there anything to having just beaten her in Paris in the sense of just simply having beaten her?  Does that give you an edge over her and give you a confidence?  Conversely, does she come in, simply because you've beaten her in a tight match, and not feel as good against you as she might?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  You know, I think I'm not even looking at Paris and that match.  She says she didn't have a lot of match practise.  I'm definitely not making any excuses for her.  You know, I'm sure she's been working harder since then and determined now to do well and do well in a Grand Slam.  So I'm expecting a better player this match, for sure.  So, you know, just because I won last time, I mean, I'm not going to get overconfident, which can happen if I think about that too much.  
 
Q.  You were talking about your mental state, convincing yourself not to get worried or upset about stupid things.  Is that something that you gradually had to learn?  Was there a turning point with that anytime this year?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No.  I mean, that's something I had to learn and just figure out that some of the things are just ridiculous.  Like, you know, when I'm wasting energy, you know, maybe even that's why I would just get more tired before, is just because I'm wasting so much energy on the mental side.  Really I just thought, "It's not worth it."  You know, it just comes from everything, on and off the court, just being more peaceful, more settled with yourself. 
 
Q.  At what point, though, do you think that you got that?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I don't know.  It's hard to say exactly when.  I mean, even maybe it started the end of last year. 
 
Q.  Given the form that both you and Serena have found particularly here, but you further back, does this feel maybe more like than a quarterfinal to you, something maybe deeper?  Secondly, better that this is a next-day thing or not so good?  Would you rather have another day?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I mean, I have no choice.  I have to play tomorrow, and that's it.  Right now, no, I mean, being in the quarterfinals of Wimbledon already is deep enough for me.  You know, I'm just trying to focus on the match, the next match, and we'll see what happens out there.  
 
Q.  From out here that cross around your neck is very striking.  Can you talk about that and possibly the influence that God has had in your life, or not?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, my mom gave this to me.  She had it made out of an old ring she had.  I think it's definitely I'm very spiritual, and there's a greater purpose here than what we're doing.  I just believe in that higher power, and I know that it's going to take care of me as long as I'm a good person.  So basically I have a faith, yeah.  
 
Q.  Has that been more a presence in your life over the last few years?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  The last few years.  I mean, it's always been kind of something that I always thought about, and that's the whole part about just trying to find yourself, the whole meaning of what we're doing here in life and all that.  That's a part that is definitely an influence in my life, and influences how I live. 
 
Q.  When did she give you the cross? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  A couple years ago.  
 
Q.  Do you think five years from now we're going to see any more touch-and-finesse players left in the women's game or do you think pretty much the game has down to power at this point? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I think it's just gone to power.  I mean, it's good to still mix it up.  I don't think it's just going to be all power because you can't just win points just doing that.  I mean, even I like to mix it up, come to the net or just hit dropshots once in while or change the pace.  I mean, there's still going to be variety in the game.  It's just when you hit the power shots, it's going to be more powerful than what it is now. 
 
Q.  How much do you think in any given match would you have to use touch?  Four, five, ten times? 
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yeah, it just depends.  I mean, if it's an easier match for me, that's when I'll do it and change my game, try to experiment with something different.  But when it's usually tough and tight, I'm going to stick to my weapons, so... 
 
Q.  A lot of players these days talk about Grand Slam tournaments as being two tournaments, the first week and then the second week.  Given how you played today, did you make a conscious effort to step up your game, it being the start of the second week, or was that just how it turned out?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Maybe it helped because I had two days off, so it feels like it ended, and I just had a little break, now I'll come back again and start again. 
 
Q.  Do you pace yourself through a tournament like this, though?  Or do you play pretty much flat out from the start?
 
JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Oh, I want to play flat out from the start.  It's not like I'm trying to take it easy out there in the beginning or I'm trying to miss shots, whatever.  It's just getting the kinks out.  I think on grass, it's just difficult because you don't have that much time to prepare.  So maybe almost if you can make it through the first week, that's like a preparation tournament.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT