U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2013
LaRue Temple
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  LaRUE TEMPLE  
  
   
 Q.   How much of a difference is it for you to walk out there for the first time and see the massive amount of crowds?  
LaRUE TEMPLE:   It's a little bit different, but it's not that bad.   I still see the same familiar faces.   I still see the caddies, they're still out here, they're spectating.   I'm seeing them.   It's just like walking around as a member guest.   There's just a lot more people walking.   I thought I was going to be really nervous, but I'm surprised at how comfortable I was with the whole situation.   It's a U.S. Open.   
The joke with us is when people are playing and they're playing slow, and they're like grinding every shot.   We say, come on, dude, this is the U.S. Open, here.   Wow, this is the U.S. Open.   (Laughter).  
   
 Q.   Is your phone blowing up a little bit this week, old friends?  
LaRUE TEMPLE:   My Facebook page.   And just my mom.   Just talking to my mom back and forth.   She's really excited, just to see us on the TV and see pictures on the TV.   That's pretty good.   But I'm representing Merion.   But I'm rocking the bucket hat.   All us Merion caddies, not all of us, but a select few are wearing the bucket hats, we're the bucket boys over there.   I've been wearing my Merion bucket all summer.   I'm sticking with the bucket all week.  
   
 Q.   When they found you, what was the chance, one out of what?  
LaRUE TEMPLE:   They have about 60 caddies here.   We have another caddie Jim Kamp, he got in.   Jack Hopkins, he walked around.   One of the caddies, he used to caddie here, he walked with Bubba for a few practice rounds.   There are some of the caddies who were selected for their knowledge and see what they had to offer some golfers.   But just being in the right place at the right time.   Me not wanting to work The Open or work the carts or the bag room or anything kind of led me to the job.   I had tickets for the week, no, I'm going to watch, I'm going to see Tiger, I'm going to hang out and have fun.   I have a friend of mine, we got tickets last August.   But I can't go up to The Open with you, I have to work.   But I'll bale him for a bag.  
   
 Q.   How special is this?  
LaRUE TEMPLE:   It's really special.   It's really cool.   It's cool to be able to represent the course, it really is.   This course has meant a lot to me for a long time.   I've been hearing my name yelled out.   
Walking down the first tee, Mike's, like, wow, you're getting more cheers than me.   It means a lot.   Plus I bartend at a bar and a lot of people that are from the bar are here.   I've seen a lot of new faces.   A lot of old caddies.   It's very sweet.   But I want to represent for Merion.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT