TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 23, 2015
Jared Kaster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Jared, you guys are already farther into the week than you normally would be with the accelerated schedule.
JARED KASTER: Yeah, I feel like we're doing great.  We're getting the game plan in.  We got it in earlier than we usually would.  Coach Kingsbury and the coaches have done a phenomenal job getting us prepared mentally and physically for this great opportunity that we have.
Yeah, I feel great about it.  So it's a great opportunity for us.  It's going to be a fun game on Thanksgiving, that's for sure.
Q. What's this game mean to you personally?
JARED KASTER: It's just another game.  I'm taking one game at a time.  This being my last year, it's a great opportunity for this football team.  Texas is a great team.  You know, especially up front for us big guys, they have a very good defensive line, very solid guys up there.  Just for this program in general, playing on Thanksgiving in front of how many people are going to be watching this on TV, you know, you don't take these games for granted because they don't come along very often.
It's going to be a fun game, fun atmosphere down there in Austin.  It's going to be a fun game to play in.
Q. Some weather expected down in the Austin area.  It will be messy down there.  Does that change anything for what you guys like to do offensively?
JARED KASTER: No, not really.  Yesterday in practice they were kind of wetting the ball for me a little bit just to get used to it.  But it's nothing big.  Just run, do our job and just run the game plan that Coach Kingsbury put in, and I think we'll be fine.
Q. How physical a game is it against UT?
JARED KASTER: It's physical.  It's probably one of the most physical games you play all year.  Like I said earlier, they're big up front.  They're going to come after you and try to hit you right in the face.  Ever since I've been here playing, they've always done that and they've done a good job at it.  They play us really hard.  We don't expect anything less, and like I said, it's going to be a great opportunity for us, especially with us up front.
Q. I know it's not anyone's fault.  Obviously it's a group, but with the way things happened with Pat last year, does it almost give you an added intensive to be the most physical team on the field?
JARED KASTER: For sure.  We want to keep Pat as clean as possible.  We're really kind of taking what happened last year, like we can't let this happen again.  It's a physical game.  It's a physical game for physical men.  This is the way it is.  To go out there and this extra time that we've had has really kind of helped us out with getting ready.  Yeah, you've got to go out there.  Whoever is the most physical team is going to win that football game.
Q. What's your favorite part of the Thanksgiving meal?
JARED KASTER: You know, being a big boy myself, I usually don't shy away from anything.  Everything on my plate, I pick and choose what goes on there.  It's usually everything.  But I like the stuffing.  Can't go wrong with a couple pieces of pie.  I'm getting hungry right now.  It's lunchtime now.
Yeah, there's really no favorite part.  It's all good.  I usually eat it all until I get in a food coma.
Q. Any of your mom's favorite recipes?
JARED KASTER: She can cook anything.  Like I said, I don't have favorites.  I just eat it all.  I'm in there eating everything until I can't eat anymore, and I just pass out in a food coma.
Q. Given the fact that you guys haven't won at Texas in a long time, is that something you feel they're going to overlook you guys for?
JARED KASTER: I don't think so.  They're going to come out and play us like they always do, just hard and physical.  I really don't look at records of where we've won, where we haven't won.  I think they're still trying to look to go to a bowl game too.  They're sitting at a tough position.  They're going to give it their best.  We don't expect anything less.  We're going to have to come out there and play our best game against a very good Texas football team.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT