TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 9, 2015
Jared Kaster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What are some of the challenges that they had?  
JARED KASTER: They come out and they're a very good disciplined team.  Coach Snyder does a tremendous job of getting those guys mentally prepared each week.  You know where they're going to be.  If they need to be in a gap, they're going to be in that gap.  That's something that we're really going to have to bring our A-game up front, and that's something that they're very good at.  They're a very fundamentally sound football team.   
 Q.  Do you feel like it's going to be (Indiscernible)?  
JARED KASTER: Yes, sir.  That's one thing that we, us up front, we're going to really take pride in this week is getting the run game going good, because they do have a very good, solid front.  And that's something that we're going to have to work on this week and get better.   
 Q.  Speaking of taking pride in the run game, what does it mean for you guys as a line to see DeAndre?  
JARED KASTER: Yeah, that's great.  It just goes to show his hard work that he's had all this off-season and this season going in, leading into the games.  It's tremendous.  You're happy for the guy.   
I mean, seeing him put all that work in and actually showing and getting another thousand yards, we take pride in that just to see him doing that.  I mean, if there's one guy on this team that's going to get an accomplishment like that, it's going to be him.  You're happy for the guy.  I know he's eager to get more, but really just get a win, so that's good for him.   
 Q.  Saturday is Senior Day.  Your last day to put them on here.  How does that feel knowing it's your last go around?  
JARED KASTER: Yeah, it's my last go around.  It's my last time to put on the red and black in the stadium.  It's a little bitter sweet moment.  It hasn't hit me yet.  It probably will after the game.  But, yeah, it's been a phenomenal experience and a roller coaster here.  It's been fun.  I mean, there is no other place than Lubbock, Texas, and the Jones to play at in college football.  That is the reason I came here to play in that stadium, and it's going to be fun.  I'm looking forward to it.  I'm looking forward to the opportunity to go out there with my teammates and have that one last game there in that stadium.   
 Q.  How important is it for you personally to get a win in your last game at the Jones?  
JARED KASTER: I mean, it's something you'll remember for sure.  It's something you'll look back on and say on Senior Day we got a win.  But still, I mean, this is going against a very good Kansas State football team.  We're really going to have to bring it in order to get that win.  But, yeah, that's something that I'll look back 20 years from now and really remember the experiences that I had.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) to stay away from the fouls?  
JARED KASTER: Yeah, you go back and we have each other's back.  It was the heat of the moment.  It's something that happens, but that didn't cost us the game.  What happened, I mean, there were multiple opportunities for the offense to go down there and score, but we have their backs no matter what.  No matter what happens to everybody, we're always going to ride it out for each other.   
 Q.  Obviously, being a senior with at least two guaranteed games left and you need one to make a bowl game, as a collective group, what's going through your mind to be able to get that guaranteed third game at this point?  
JARED KASTER: Yeah, just bring in our best.  Going out there and giving it our all.  Really be able to lead this team and get that done.  I mean, that's something that you look back at last year, just as a group before the season started, we did not want that to happen to us.  That's something that we got two great opportunities against two very good football teams.   
You want to go to a bowl game.  I mean, I would love to go to a bowl game.  Everybody here would love to go to a bowl game.  That's something you dream about is going to a bowl game.  But, yeah, we're going to have to bring our best and play our best football game at Tech.  We're going to have to start today at practice.   
 Q.  Why do you think you do so much better as an offense at home?  
JARED KASTER: I don't know.  I don't know.  I've gotten that question a lot.  It's probably just playing here in front of all of our fans.  Like I said earlier, there is no better place than playing up there.  I mean, I don't know.  Who knows.  I don't really have an answer for it.   
 Q.  One moment kind of stick out to you as you're starting to go through the motions of Senior Day?  
JARED KASTER: Man, it's hard to really put a finger on it.  I mean, just all of it.  The whole experience, the recruiting process, going to school and just playing football in general with this great university.  It's all been an emotional and crazy experience for me.  It's been amazing.   
I think everybody that's been here with me through this time, they really can't put a finger on all of it.  The whole experience all together has been tremendous.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT