TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 19, 2015
Jared Kaster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Jared, tough game last week.  From your perspective, what happened?
JARED KASTER: We came out, and we focused, and we executed the game plan.  You know what happens.  It's just something we're going to have to go back and really watch all the game film and really fix it and come out fired up for this opportunity we have this weekend.
Q. Your coach was pretty critical of you guys in terms of how you came out and didn't want to play and didn't show much effort.  Hit you pretty hard at halftime, and nobody responded.  How do you guys respond to that?
JARED KASTER: We've just got to come out better.  We've got to come out more enthused and act like we want to play football, and that's something we didn't do.  I'll take responsibility for it being an older guy.  We can't do that.  With all these opportunities getting limited as the season goes on, it's something that we can't do.
We just have to come out and bounce back this weekend.
Q. Why do you think that happened?
JARED KASTER: I don't know.  I don't know.  There's a lot of things that can go into it.  I really don't know.  I'm going to try to find out and fix it where it won't happen again.
Q. Did you sense that at all last week, getting ready for this game?
JARED KASTER: I thought we had a great week of practice.  It's -- I don't know.  I really don't have any words for it.  It's just something that moving forward, we just can't do again.  We can't have it.
Q. Kind of took you off guard a little bit?  Kind of came out with something you weren't really expecting?
JARED KASTER: No.  We just didn't execute.  That's the main thing.  We were flat.  We didn't execute.  And that's something that we can't do.  Give credit to Kansas.  They're a heck of a football team.  The record surely does not show because they came out and hit us in the face, and we didn't respond.
Q. What's the challenge like for you guys when you lose the guys that you lost up front?  Especially late in the second quarter when you lose somebody like Le'Raven?
JARED KASTER: We've just got to come out and step up.  When you lose somebody like that, the guys that come in, there has to be that time where they can't bounce back.  It just has to keep moving.  The train has to keep rolling.  That's something that we'll work on and get better this week.
Q. When a guy like DeAndre steps up and has the kind of game he did, do you guys as an offensive line take pride in that or, you know what, that's his whole deal?
JARED KASTER: No, we all work together.  We're happy to see -- Dre is the type of guy that his work is starting to show.  He's put in a lot of work during the off-season and is still putting in work as the season goes on.  It's good to see him do that because the guy is a tremendous athlete.  Yeah, we take pride in it when he gets those yards like he does.  We're all working towards the same goal.
Q. Jared, tell us about your relationship with Baker when he was here.  You and he are pretty good friends, all right to say?
JARED KASTER: Yeah, I mean, hope he does great the rest of this season and not so great this Saturday.  Good luck to him.  He's off doing good things.  He's not my quarterback anymore.
Q. How do you feel about that?
JARED KASTER: That's his own deal.  That's between him and his decision.  I'm worried about this football team here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT