TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 12, 2015
Jared Kaster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
An interview with:   
JARED KASTER   
 Q.  You guys put up the most yards in school history on Saturday.  So what's that feel like?  
JARED KASTER: It's good.  It shows what our hard work is going towards and it's paying off.  Whatever it takes to win a football game.  I mean, we can put up 20 yards as long as the defense does something good.  It doesn't matter.  As long as we win football games.   
But that's good.  It just goes to show all the hard work that we're putting in during the week, it is paying off.   
 Q.  Do you think that record meant something to the team?  Doesn't seem like you're ecstatic about it.  
JARED KASTER: What, the 700 yards?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
JARED KASTER: It's great.  It's great to put up that many yards.  But right now we're taking one game at a time.  W's are a little bit more exciting than 700 yards.  Which, don't get me wrong, it's pretty impressive to be able to do that against a great Iowa State football team like that.  But, yeah, it's fun, exciting, and it's all in next week.   
 Q.  Have you noticed how the receivers this year have done a better job blocking down field?  
JARED KASTER: Yeah, they're doing a tremendous job.  That's what it takes.  That's what a receiver has to do in this type of offense.  And they're doing a great job.  We're kind of -- I told -- I forgot what game it was, but I had a little competition, big guys versus little guys, who was going to get the most knock downs.  They were a little eager to hear that.   
But it's fun to see that.  Give it that effort to go down there and put somebody on their back or extend the play by the blocking.  But, yeah, in this type of offense, receivers are going to have to do that.   
 Q.  Do you ever have some of the younger receivers come up to you after practice and try to (off microphone)?  
JARED KASTER: No, not really.  They seem like they've got it under control.  They know what they're doing out there.  They do drills, blocking up drills during practice.  But, yeah, not yet.  They haven't asked us.   
 Q.  Coach talked about how difficult it is to block when you have Pat moving around.  For you guys, how difficult is it to do that?  
JARED KASTER: It's something we have to do.  We just have to finish our block until the whistle blows.  We don't know where he's at because he's able to do that.  But it just goes to show when you're able to do that, he throws the ball a mile down the field to Jakeem and scores a touchdown.   
He's able to do stuff like that.  That's why you have to keep your block going until the whistle blows.   
 Q.  What goes through your mind when you hear the crowd and it's loud, and you think it might be another one of those plays that he makes?  What's that moment like where this could be a good play, I don't want to mess this up?  
JARED KASTER: For us, it's trying to find somebody to hit because you really don't know where he's at.  Yeah, it's exciting.  One second you're blocking somebody and the crowd goes crazy, and you're wondering where's the ball at?  Where's Pat at first?  Let's find out where he's at, and then let's block somebody else so he can make a play.  But it's exciting to block for somebody like that, yeah.   
 Q.  Where have you seen the biggest improvement from the defense you face every day in practice?  
JARED KASTER: I think just sticking together.  Sticking together.  They've gone through adversity, and so have we.  Just being able to be together and really work on their craft as individuals.  I think they've got great leaders on that side of the ball with Pete, B. Jack, and Micah.  You hear them every day in practice, and the young guys start to step up and to see that.  It's great to see that, and it shows up on Saturdays.   
 Q.  Where have you seen improvement from the offensive line?  
JARED KASTER: There's a lot of things we've still got to work on.  I think effort.  My effort individually, I need to pick that up.  Communication is a big key.  We kind of have guys shuffled in around there.  And us all staying on the same path and same page is a good thing.   
We've just got to keep growing at that and getting better at that.   
 Q.  How do you feel it went with Tony in there at right guard?  
JARED KASTER: He got his mind right.  He was prepared, and he went out and did a great job.  That's the type of player Tony is.  He's going to give it his all.  He's been through everything.  The only thing he wants to do is go out and have fun and play football.  You root for a guy like that.  It's exciting to see him out there really give it his all for the game that he loves.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT