TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 27, 2014
Jared Kaster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q.   What was the feeling like for you guys as players on Saturday walking off that field against TCU after they put up 82?
JARED KASTER:   It was hard.   Going in and having the week that we had and got prepared like we did, I think we had one of our best weeks in practice so far, and I mean, it was disappointing to come out losing like that at all. 
It hurt, that's for sure.   But it's just something that we're going to have to bounce back and really find out who the men are and who really cares about this team and see what we can do for the rest of the season. 

Q.   It seemed like a really good game, especially against a defense like that, you guys were able to move the ball really well.   Are you able to take some things from that and move forward?
JARED KASTER:   Yeah, Coach Kingsbury put in a good plan for us as an offense.   At the beginning we did; we started to move the ball.   Just towards the middle and towards the end, we just couldn't ever get it going back, little mistakes that we had that we've got to clear up. 
Yeah, it was a positive note, that's for sure. 

Q.   What do you think it is as far as you guys start fast but just don't finish strong?   What is it that maybe is hindering that at this point? 
JARED KASTER:   You know, everything.   You can take little pieces of it.   If it's mental, if guys aren't doing the right things, little things right, if it's assignment‑wise, if it's the momentum shift.   I mean, there's so many possibilities that can go into it.   But I think when you score and you go back off, you can't accept the fact that, oh, we just scored, and lay down.   You've got to keep on their throat, you've got to keep pushing and keep pushing.   I think that's something we can work on as an offense. 

Q.   Why do you keep doing that?
JARED KASTER:   I don't know.   As me being one of the veteran guys, I try to figure that out because I want to be successful, and right now it's kind of hard the way the season is going, but we're trying to‑‑ me personally, I'm trying to figure that out. 

Q.   Given the struggles this program has had against Texas, only winning one game since Coach Kingsbury did it back in 2002, how big would it be from a confidence standpoint to be able to knock off a team like Texas?
JARED KASTER:   Well, it's good.   Texas has always been a prestigious university that has always been around and had a good program.   Growing up you always see Texas in the limelight.   The university has always been a big school, a big football team that's always been in the talk, and for us kids growing up, that's all you see, and I think that would be a big thing for us to kind of kick back our season, to finish out strong. 
We still have an opportunity to go to a bowl game if we win out.   This is where we start off if we can get that win, but it'll be big, that's for sure.

Q.   Would it be less special because they are 3‑5 this season?
JARED KASTER:   No.   You look at every team, they're just as strong as any other team.   You can't go in just as a record‑wise, that's for sure.   You go in with each team just playing your best game you can play.   You never underestimate a team just by their record.

Q.   I know you guys haven't gotten a chance to dig really deep into the film, but you've got to like this match‑up, right?
JARED KASTER:   Yeah, it's good.   Texas, they've always had talent, they've always had good players, good guys, and good Coach Strong has come in there and is starting to do a good job with their program.   But they always play us hard, that's for sure. 
It'll be a fun experience, fun atmosphere, fun game. 

Q.   Did you watch the game in '08?
JARED KASTER:   I did.   I was pretty young back in '08, but I did watch that game, and it was fun seeing everybody, them pull that game off.   I was too young to think about going somewhere to play football.   I had it in my mind I always wanted to play college football, but I kind of put Tech‑‑ who's Texas Tech, you know.   But yeah, it was a fun game, that's for sure.

Q.   Have you talked to Davis? 
JARED KASTER:   Well, yeah, I have talked to him to see how he's doing.   He's doing fine, but I haven't heard anything about what's going on.

Q.   Is he still feeling a bunch of pain in that foot?
JARED KASTER:   I don't know.   I don't know anything about that. 

Q.   The Kansas State game it seemed like he wanted to come back in, it seemed like he was able to come back in.   Is that fair to say?   When he got hurt against Kansas State, his shoulder, it seemed like he was able to come back in that game?
JARED KASTER:   Yeah.   I know he wanted to, that's for sure, yeah. 

Q.   What's the communication level between the offensive line and Patrick if Patrick is the guy that's going to start and how do you game plan to protect him?
JARED KASTER:   We take it just every week, no matter who's back there.   I think Coach Kingsbury does a good job of getting everybody ready, so whoever it is, I don't know.   I mean, whatever the decision is, I don't know.   I just worry about the guys to the left or the right of me. 

Q.   Does it make it difficult for you guys as an offensive line when you have a quarterback that will move around a little bit but you never really know where he is back there?   Does it make it more difficult to block the guys up front?
JARED KASTER:   No, not really.   That's just our effort, trying to finish a block.   You don't really think about that.   If you finish your block to the point where he's not going to be anywhere near the quarterback, then you don't have to worry about that.

Q.   As a player, playing a night game in the Jones, how different is it particularly against a school like Texas coming in here at night?
JARED KASTER:   It's fun.   All the fans are rowdy, that's for sure.   It's Halloween weekend, so that's going to be pretty fun to see what the costumes are going to be like at the stadium. 
It's fun.   Playing night games in the Jones is always exciting.   That's one of the reasons I came here is for that experience, but yeah, it should be fun. 

Q.   Your offensive line against their defensive line would appear to be strength on strength.   What does their defensive line do to stand out? 
JARED KASTER:   Their effort.   I think that the guys that they have in there right now, I think they're playing for the team.   They want the team to do good.   They always come out and play us hard.   They gave us trouble last year, that's for sure, and going back and watching that game, it was tough. 
We want to try to limit that as much as possible this game, but they're very solid up front.   They've got a bunch of D‑tackles and D‑ends.   But it'll be another challenge for us, that's for sure. 

Q.   During the spring did you think about that game with Texas? 
JARED KASTER:   Yeah, you know, we get motivated for every game.   It's just another game that we try to go out and prove ourselves to everybody else who we are.   But you do keep it in the back of your mind that they do go‑‑ we went there and they did that to us.   You don't want that to happen again.   Overall we just worry about getting better every day. 

Q.   Their interior guys, they give you more trouble with their quickness or their strength or a combination?
JARED KASTER:   A little bit of both.   They're big up front, and they're quick.   But you know, just a little bit of both.   It always gives us trouble.

Q.   82‑27, you're never going to forget that number, but talk about this week.   Are you guys going to do anything different?   Do you as a leader dress up, make some things fun around here, loosen up the atmosphere?
JARED KASTER:   Yeah, I think that's needed right now at the moment.   You know, you think about it, I kind of go by the 24‑hour rule.   You think about it, let it soak in, let it hit you, and then you've got another game this next week.   We're looking at this game, it's going to be a fun atmosphere and these guys will get an opportunity to show what they have against a team that they've probably been recruited by, a bunch of the kids from Texas. 
You know, we'll probably joke around, try to loosen up the atmosphere, whatever that might be, but try to get everybody back together is probably the main thing right now.

Q.   What are you going to be for Halloween?
JARED KASTER:   Oh, man, I don't know.   My roommate, Trey Keenan, we try to do something together.   We don't know quite yet.   It might be a surprise.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT