NBA DRAFT
June 28, 2007
Jeff Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Jeff, can you talk about your thoughts on this trade, linking up with Kevin out there and just how that whole deal feels to you right now? 
 JEFF GREEN:  Well, first, it was long.  I was waiting as soon as I've been picked. 
 I'm happy it happened but I had no control over it.  I'm happy to be in Seattle with Kevin.  I know it's going to be a great fit and a lot of young players, so I'm looking forward to it. 

 Q.  Could you just talk about your relationship with Kevin?  I know you said you were good friends but yesterday you said you had not played with him? 
 JEFF GREEN:  Yeah, and now I've got the chance to play with him. 
 I've known him since I was younger, played on the D.C. Blue Devils.  I never got the chance to play with him but now I do and it's under the NBA microscope.  It's going to be fun.  Looking forward to it and he's a great talent.  Just to connect with Wilcox who is already on the team, it's going to be a fun upcoming season. 

 Q.  Did you know Delonte at all? 
 JEFF GREEN:  No, I did not.  I know he went to Roosevelt; a lot of Maryland players are going to be on this team. 

 Q.  Do you think that will make the transition easier, being so far from home? 
 JEFF GREEN:  Yeah, him being from the Maryland area, going to Roosevelt which is like five minutes from where I live and him being in the NBA for awhile, he can really help me and Kevin out and show us the ropes. 

 Q.  With Kevin playing the 3 and you playing the 3 and Rashard potentially coming back, how do you see yourself matching when you're playing the same position? 
 JEFF GREEN:  Yeah, we're going to be tough to guard, three 6'9" guys who can do everything; shoot, pass, defend; it's going to be tough for teams to defend.  It's going to make things easier for each other so I'm really looking forward to it. 

 Q.  When did you find out about the trade and that you were heading out there? 
 JEFF GREEN:  I think when they announced it -- I think they announced it before Kevin was picked, I believe.  That's the word but I didn't realize that I was going to be that pick until maybe after the third pick.  I think Andy Katz said it in interviews. 
 I've been looking forward to it ever since the trade was mentioned, so it's going to be a good ride. 

 Q.  Did you work out for Seattle at all?  I know you did some work with Boston; did you do anything with Seattle? 
 JEFF GREEN:  I didn't, because nobody knew I was going to be in this position to make that trade. 
 But I've been in college three years.  They have seen me play.  So hopefully they note things that I'm capable of doing and hopefully I can make this thing work. 

 Q.  It's a done deal obviously, but how would you have liked the situation in Boston? 
 JEFF GREEN:  It would have been nice with Doc Rivers being the coach and the coach has seen me a lot and it will be nice.  Things happen for a reason and hopefully this is the best situation for me. 

 Q.  Did you get a chance to speak with Sam Presti and how did that conversation go? 
 JEFF GREEN:  I have not.  I just came out of the sitting room.  I've been waiting for there about two and a half hours to just finalize the trade and this is my first interview.  I'm just getting situated with the interview part and hopefully I get a chance before the night is over to have a conversation with him. 

 Q.  How emotional was the moment for you your mother certainly looked like it -- 
 JEFF GREEN:  My, mom, yeah.  My mom cried her heart out.  She's been waiting for this for a long time.  She's happy for me. 
 But I didn't want to shed a tear.  I tried to hold it back and did the best I can but they almost came out.  It's very emotional.  It's something I've been wanting to happen since I was young and finally for it to be here is a blessing.  I'm very excited and ready to get it started. 

 Q.  What exactly have you been doing for the last three hours? 
 JEFF GREEN:  Sitting and watching other players come in who have been drafted.  You know, just telling them congratulations and good luck.  You know, just complimenting them on their seasons and being drafted.  So I've just been hanging out. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT