KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 28, 2002
Lisolette Neumann
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 NEAL REID:  Obviously, kind of a challenge today with the wind.  Everybody was talking about that today.
LISELOTTE NEUMANN:   Yeah, very challenging. 
NEAL REID: If you could just talk about that.
LISELOTTE NEUMANN:   I just think we've been in the wind all year.  I think it probably helped me today, just, you know every tournament we've played so far this year has been really windy.  Tried to just hit a lot of punch shots, just keeping it low in the wind.  And you just don't want to hit any high shots and let the wind get a hold of the ball.  So just putting it back in the sands, keeping it low, and turned out really well today.  Just pretty solid golf.  I'm very happy with my round.
NEAL REID:  So you putted well today?  Every aspect was pretty strong?
LISELOTTE NEUMANN:   Yeah, I putted good and hit it well.  I think I only missed two greens today.  One was a bunker shot I failed to get up-and-down.  The other one was on 17 just off the fringe and I chipped it up.  Other than that, I've been able to hit every green and putted well, had lot of putts, got the speed down and I putted really well.  Just a nice, solid day. 
My birdies, I had a birdie on No.  4.  Birdied an 8-iron to about 18 feet. 
Then I birdied No.  9.  That was a sand wedge, about 20 feet. 
A birdie on 12, and that was an 8-iron to 50 feet. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
LISELOTTE NEUMANN:   I had a pretty good birdie chance on No. 8.  I had about ten feet that I missed. 
And then I had about a 6-footer on 11 that I missed a little 360, almost like a 380, just went in and came out the other way.  It was amazing.  I haven't had one of those putts in a long time. 
At least I came back and made it on the next hole.  So kind of made up for it. 
NEAL REID:  Did you have any holes where you had great pars? 
LISELOTTE NEUMANN:   I had a great par on No. 7.  I missed my shot into the green.  I ended up in the left bunker and actually had a really tough bunker shot.  It was one of those, I would be happy if I could get it within ten feet and hit absolutely perfect shot.  It just carried on the fringe and rolled down to two feet from the hole.  Just a great save there.
Like I said earlier, I saved a par on 17 where I missed the green just to the right of the hole.  I chipped it up to four feet and made that putt. 

Q.  Anything you worked on in the off-season that you think is benefitting you, as far as playing well recently?
LISELOTTE NEUMANN:   Actually, one thing that I did, I came out here and played this golf course about ten times.  I played it under some tough conditions.  I was here in January almost every weekend, and I think  -- I mean, like the way the wind was blowing and how cold it was on the last hole, that's pretty much how it was a lot of times when I came out to practice.  So I got a benefit a little bit on my play after that.  I think it definitely helped me, playing this course in the wind before. 
You know, it's the first major of the year and I just love being out here in Palm Springs.  It's a great place to practice.  I actually had a membership  -- I'm actually a member here at the club.  So very thankful to the people here at the club that gave me an honorary membership.  So I've been able to take advantage of that in coming out and playing this golf course.  So it's been great. 
You want to play?  (Laughter.) I'll play with you. 

Q.  Do you feel overall that your game is well-suited for windy conditions? 
LISELOTTE NEUMANN:   Yeah, I usually play pretty good in the wind.  I don't have a really long swing.  So maybe just kind of keep it pretty compact and just able to hit a lot of really low shots.  So actually my caddie asked me today, he said, "Are you sure you don't have a little British blood in you?"  -- being able to keep all the shots so low. 

Q.  How long have you had the membership?
LISELOTTE NEUMANN:   About four years.

Q.  Do you normally come out and spend a lot of time in January?
LISELOTTE NEUMANN:   Not as much as I did this winter.  Obviously, we had such a long break.  It was a little bit unusual because normally we start up again in January in Florida and never really gave me good time to come out here and this year, when we didn't have the tournaments in Florida,  I just took my chance and come out here to California instead of practice. 

Q.  Do you have a home here?
LISELOTTE NEUMANN:   I've got a place out here, yeah. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
LISELOTTE NEUMANN:   It was just really windy and really, really cold.  It was one of those days where I only played nine holes because it was so bad.  So, yeah, it was a lot cooler in January here.  We had turtlenecks and sweaters and all that, also. 

Q.  How long have you had a place here? 
LISELOTTE NEUMANN:   I've had a place here for a long time, over  -- close to ten years, I think.  Eight years. 

Q.  Why? 
LISELOTTE NEUMANN:   Just because Palm Springs is beautiful.  Who didn't want to live here?  (Laughs) it's a good spot. 

Q.  You'll be on city council before long. 
LISELOTTE NEUMANN:   (Laughs). 

Q.  I was looking at your results in the majors and you've done well here, but out of the four majors this is probably the fourth best out of the four.  Has that been maybe frustrating? 
LISELOTTE NEUMANN:   I guess I don't really look at it as I play that bad here.  I had a couple of good weeks when I've been playing well, and I think about  '98, I think I finished fourth or fifth here. 
So, I mean, of course you always want to do better.  Doesn't matter how you play.  I'm pretty pleased with the way I performed on this golf course.

Q.  Inaudible?
LISELOTTE NEUMANN:   No, I haven't.  No, I haven't. 





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT