THE SOLHEIM CUP
August 18, 2013
Lisolette Neumann
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Try and describe the sense of achievement.   You made history today.   
LISELOTTE NEUMANN:   It's a fantastic feeling.   I just can't tell you how proud I am of all of them.   They all really played so well.   It was all, it was really great this week.  
Everybody has done something great for the team, including Annika and Carin.   They really helped out with putting our pairings together, and just being out here, being on the golf course.   Just being there for the players.   And also our staff, the whole tour, everybody, it's just been fantastic.   Just everything.   We just wanted the players to be out there and just focus on their game and they have been able to do that.   And they just played brilliant.  
   
 Q.   What was your best decision of the week?  
LISELOTTE NEUMANN:   I think probably to rest some of the girls yesterday, putting Charley and Jodi out there.   We felt like it was a good move and to play Caroline Hedwall five times.   To play her, she's the only player that we played in every match.   And she managed to win all five matches.   
   
 Q.   You made history with six rookies on the team.   How do you explain that?  
LISELOTTE NEUMANN:   When I was over in England doing my captain's picks, I was really looking at if I picked this player, who would I pair her with.   And I was pretty much set on Caroline Hedwall and Jodi.   And when I picked Jodi it sort of made it automatic to pick Charley.   So I already then, had a few of the pairings sort of in my mind.   And it was just amazing, both those girls are playing so well.  
(Singing in the background, audio unintelligible.)  
Q.You're a very modest lady, but everybody is saying what a fantastic job that you've done.   Where does this rank for you?  
LISELOTTE NEUMANN:   Oh, it's definitely one of the highlights for me.   Obviously, being on the team and as a player and winning, it's, it ranks right up there with that.   
   
 Q.   How are you going to celebrate this win?  
LISELOTTE NEUMANN:   We'll see.   I'm sure we'll go have a drink or two and maybe some good food and do some dancing and singing tonight.   
   
 Q.   What a moment for you.   
LISELOTTE NEUMANN:   Yeah, Solheim Cup, so proud of these girls.   It's amazing.   
   
 Q.   What's it like to finish on the 18th green with all the European fans all around.   A special moment?  
LISELOTTE NEUMANN:   Yeah and it was really fun to see Caroline get her fifth point this week, making some history on the team.   Winning here for the first time, making more history.   
   
 Q.   And a word for your rookies.   Talk about them.   
LISELOTTE NEUMANN:   Oh, absolutely, they made me proud.   All of them.   It was just a total team effort.   Everybody's been playing well, everybody's been really helpful.   We have had a great effort from Carin and Annika as well, and everybody on our staff.   
   
 Q.   Give your self a pat on the back as well, because yesterday your pairings‑‑ some would have questioned them, but they turned out to be perfect.   
LISELOTTE NEUMANN:   Yeah, I had a gut feeling about it and I stuck with it.   And I thought it was important to rest some of the players for today's singles, and it really worked out and I'm so happy.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT