THE SOLHEIM CUP
August 17, 2013
Lisolette Neumann
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Delighted to have with us European team captain Liselotte Neumann.   Obviously a fantastic afternoon, a clean sweep in the four‑ball.  
CAPTAIN LISELOTTE NEUMANN:   Yeah, I know.   Of course it was just a wonderful afternoon to walk away with those four points.   We could only have dreamt about that.   
And I'm just extremely happy and just extremely proud of how they all handled them self and how good they played.   
So just very happy.   
THE MODERATOR:   Take questions.   
   
 Q.   Meg said she was in shock.   How would you describe your emotion?   
CAPTAIN LISELOTTE NEUMANN:   Just happy.   
(Laughter.)  
   
 Q.   When ‑‑ would you have settled given the way the afternoon had gone, would you have been okay if that last match had ended in a halve and how much of a boost was it when that putt dropped into the cup?  
CAPTAIN LISELOTTE NEUMANN:   Oh, yeah, that was just absolutely amazing.   With Cristie hitting such a great shot up there.   I mean I think that, I mean obviously getting away with the four points in the afternoon, it was just over our expectations.   I think I would have been pretty happy with a tie in the afternoon.   
   
 Q.   The last match or for the whole afternoon?   
CAPTAIN LISELOTTE NEUMANN:   Talking about the afternoon matches.   I mean if we would have come away with a tie, like a 2‑2 in the afternoon matches I think that would have been a pretty good goal for us, since I rested all our experienced players.   We wanted to rest them for the sink he will matches, so I mean to come out with 4‑0 in the afternoon was just over our expectations.  
   
 Q.   Did Suzann ask to be sit down?   
CAPTAIN LISELOTTE NEUMANN:   Suzann sat, Anna sat and Catriona Matthew sat out.  
   
 Q.   Did Suzann ask?  
CAPTAIN LISELOTTE NEUMANN:   And Suzann.   Yeah, she was sitting out.  
   
 Q.   Did she ask to be sitting out?  
CAPTAIN LISELOTTE NEUMANN:   Yeah.   But most of them were, I mean, most of them were like, if you really need us, yeah, we can go, but, yeah, we'll, we would prefer to sit out and rest for tomorrow.   Both Anna and Catriona and everybody.   So I just figured that I it just feels like it's really important to keep some energy for single matches.   So that's what we wanted to do.   It's a big day tomorrow, it's 12 points out there, so it's not over yet.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the gutsy pairing of putting two rookies together and how did it just come to you like that that was a good idea?   
CAPTAIN LISELOTTE NEUMANN:   No.   I had that dreamt up from the beginning since I picked Charley at the British, actually.   I already then chatted with Jodi and was kind of checking how good of a friends are you, could you imagine playing with her in a best ball.   And they were like, yeah, we're good friends, I can totally see playing with Charley.   And that actually came down to one of the captain's picks that was already in the works way back in the British when I did my picks.   I don't know, it's just, I just had this gut feeling and I went with it.   
   
 Q.   It worked.   So how many gut feelings did you have about tomorrow?   
CAPTAIN LISELOTTE NEUMANN:   
(Laughter.)   I got some good ones.   
   
 Q.   Talk about tomorrow.   Your lineup and your setting.   
CAPTAIN LISELOTTE NEUMANN:   Yeah, you obviously have seen it, right, so, yeah, you know what it is.   
I think that Anna has been in that first position before and we just figured, we call her numero uno now, since she had her hole‑in‑one, so we figure we'll put her in the first spot.   
And I like playing Charley early.   She's, she did so well today going out in that first pairing and I don't know, she just has that about her.   She just kind of pops around.   And she asked me the other day, Lotta, when am I going to get nervous?   And I was like, I don't know, now?   
(Laughter.)   So I mean she's, you know, she was so cute today.   She's just like, this is like the best day of my life today when she played so well.   So we're like, we're sending her out early, she's got good energy, she's playing well.   
Azahara, Carlota, the Spanish connection there.   We'll keep them close together.   And they both wanted to go early, so it feels good.   
Then Caroline Hedwall has played so well, she's won all her matches so far.   She feels like she's in a good spot there, covered up with Catriona Matthew and Suzann Pettersen, just a really lot of strength in those three matches there.   
Giulia sat out this afternoon, so she will have some good energy tomorrow.   Caroline has played well.   Jodi played well.   And then coming down to the last matches in case it will come that far then putting Karine Icher in the end there she just really stepped up to the plate today and making that putt it just feels like a perfect finish there for us, so looking at the paper on our lineup, it looks really good, I think.   
   
 Q.   Carlota Ciganda was so solid this afternoon and obviously there's a reason why she won the money title last year.   She struggled so much yesterday, was that an aberration of the way she plays?   
CAPTAIN LISELOTTE NEUMANN:   She struggled yesterday and up to just about an hour before we decided who was going to play this afternoon I wasn't even quite sure we were going to play her, actually.   But her coach/teacher is here and Annika, they actually went up on the driving range about 10, 10:30 today and had a little bit of a session and just worked on her setup and her tempo and the ball position.   And they just figured out a couple little things that just made a difference I think.   And after that session.   I think they were up there for about 30 minutes and Annika called in and said, she's ready to go.   So that's when we put her in.   So, and she did really, really well.   
   
 Q.   There was an incident on the 7th over conceding a putt, when Paula had a meaningless putt to give Lexi a read.   Which I'm sure you're aware of.   But Meg had said that Annika had been the one to recommend that they concede and there was a discussion about assistants giving advice.   Do you have any thoughts on that?  
CAPTAIN LISELOTTE NEUMANN:   I think Annika just sort of felt like this is sort of what you do in the game.   You give someone a putt that was short enough.   And I think putting out, Charley and Jodi, I think they weren't quite sure, should we give this putt to them or not.   And I think that it sounded like someone had turned around and said what do we do?   And she said, yeah, you give the putt.   It's like don't make them putt the short little putt or something.   
I wasn't there, so I'm not a hundred percent sure how it all worked out, but I guess she was sort of you know that's something you do, you give them the putt.   So I guess that's what happened.   
   
 Q.   How do you keep your team from celebrating too early?   
CAPTAIN LISELOTTE NEUMANN:   I don't know.   I don't know where they are right now.   They're on the bus back going crazy probably.   No, but no, it's obviously a long ways to go, so just kidding.   They are going back to the hotel now and obviously having some dinner and Annika and Karin is with them and as soon as we're done here we'll head back and I think we just really just got to realize that stranger things have happened.   We watched the Ryder Cup last year, I have been part of the team back in '96 when it didn't go so well.   I think that there's been other times too.   So I think now is the time to just really sit down and for everybody just to really look at their own match and everybody's got to go out and try to win their point tomorrow and don't spend a whole lot of time looking at that board and thinking that my teammate will get the point, so they need to go out and just focus on their game tomorrow and keep doing what they have been doing, just hitting the fairways and greens and just putting some pressure on the U.S. team.   
   
 Q.   How meaningful would it be to be the first captain of a European victory in America?   
CAPTAIN LISELOTTE NEUMANN:   You know, it would just be amazing feeling.   I know when I took on this job, I think I said it before, and it was our goal, it's obviously my dream, to be able to win this cup over here for the first time.   So to make some history it will be amazing.   
THE MODERATOR:   Okay, thank you, Lotta.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT