LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 26, 2006
Lisolette Neumann
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAM WARNER:  Liselotte, thank you for coming in and joining us today.  You played well.  You're still up there in contention going into the weekend.  Talk about where you're at right now and your day.
LISELOTTE NEUMANN:  I started out, I played really well on the front nine.  I was really hitting the ball well, putted well.  And for some reason on the back nine I couldn't get anything going.  I was a little disappointed with the finish.
PAM WARNER:  Let's go over your scorecard.
LISELOTTE NEUMANN:  I had a birdie on No. 2, the short par 5.  I hit a 5-iron.  I ended up short of the green and chipped it up to 5 feet and made the putt.

Then I had a birdie on 5.  That was also a 5-iron into 5 feet.  And I actually missed the eagle putt there and tapped in for birdie.

Birdie on 8, pitching wedge, six feet from the hole.

Birdie on 9.  It was an 8-iron to about 12 feet.

Just a bogey on 18.  I missed my tee shot left behind this big Christmas tree.  I had to chip it out and get it on the green and 2-putted from about 18 feet.
PAM WARNER:  Questions?
Q.  Is the course playing like it did yesterday?
LISELOTTE NEUMANN:  I think so, pretty similar, yes.
Q.  After a good start and then a little bit of a struggle at the finish, going into tomorrow, do you have to put that out of your head?  How do you emotionally prepare knowing you could be a stroke or two better?
LISELOTTE NEUMANN:  I think you just sort of -- yeah, I'll go hit a few shots after this.  I just missed a couple of tee shots.  Actually, on 17 today, even though I saved par on that hole, but missed the tee shot right on that hole, missed it left from -- on 18.  So I'll just probably go and work that out on the driving range.

Other than that, I played solid.  I had a lot of birdie chances on the back nine, I just didn't make any of the putts.  That's when you're even more disappointed, when you know you had a lot of chances to get it to 10 or 11 and you go backwards and come in at 8.
Q.  Do you feel confident?  There are a lot of players in there but you're close.
LISELOTTE NEUMANN:  Yes.  There's still the afternoon group left, but I think the scores are going to be pretty low, especially some of the Par 5s you can reach in two where you have eagle chances and birdie chances out there.  I don't know where 8 will put me when the day is over.  I'm sure leading will be closer to 11 or 12, I'm guessing.
Q.  The birdies at 2 and 5, do you feel you're losing ground if you don't make birdie on those holes?
LISELOTTE NEUMANN:  Pretty much, yes.  You just feel like you have to make birdies or eagles.  Like I say, if you walked away with a par, it's maybe not a hole shot lost, but at least a half a shot, I think.
Q.  How has your game been so far this year?
LISELOTTE NEUMANN:  I don't feel like I've played that much.  Playing one week and having a week off and then playing a week.  I've had a couple of good weeks, like Vegas.  I think I finished like 12th, 17th.  But I haven't really gotten anything going.  I think more short game than anything, and this week it seems like I've been putting better.  My chipping has been good.  That gives me a little more confidence for my shots into the green.
Q.  Is this one of your favorite places to come and play?
LISELOTTE NEUMANN:  I took a couple of years off or so and then I came back last year, and I asked myself, Why haven't I been to Corning more often.  I love it here.  It's a fun course to play.  The thing with this course, you know the scores are going to be low; they are every year.  So you have to come in with the attitude that I'm going to go out and try to shoot 20-under par.

I love being here.  It's a great little town.  It's fun to walk down Market Street, both in the mornings and evenings.  It's a great place.  I'm glad I'm back.
Q.  You've been in this position before here.  Talk about the confidence level when you come here.  Do you feel comfortable coming here?
LISELOTTE NEUMANN:  I finished fifth here last year, so I think when you come back to a place where you play well, you definitely come back with confidence.  It's always a good feeling.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT