PUERTO RICO TIP-OFF MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 7, 2012
Cuonzo Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q.   Can you talk a little about your preseason and how it's gone so far? 
CUONZO MARTIN:   So far, so good.   We have got an injury, Jeronne, one of our key guys and so he's out for a while.   But other than that, the guys are playing well.   We had a closed scrimmage and an exhibition game last Monday and I thought the guys played hard.

Q.   Any players that have stood out for you so far in the preseason?
CUONZO MARTIN:   I would like to think all of the guys have gotten better, and that's always a good sign.   I think Kenny Hall, a big guy, 6‑9, he's really expanded his game, shooting the ball from the perimeter. 
I think Trae Golden is doing a really good job as a point guard, running our team, still able to score the ball, great assist ratio, and the scrimmage in the exhibition game.   And I think our guys have gotten bigger and stronger and our perimeter guys are really making shots at this point.   Jarnell Stokes is playing well for us around the rim. 

Q.   What's the strengths for your team?
CUONZO MARTIN:   I think talking strengths, with Jeronne ‑‑ indiscernible ‑‑ I think play physical guys, but also skill guys that can play on the perimeter as well as make plays off the bounce, get passes.   I think for us Trae Golden as a point guard with his ability to score the basketball, but also run a team and make decisions, and he's really improved on the defensive side of the ball, as well.
I think our biggest concern last season, moving forward into this season, making perimeter shots, I think our guys are doing a good shot with that right now.

Q.   Talk about the tournament format where you play two games, off a day and then play on Sunday and then also speak a little about your first round opponent, UNC Asheville. 
CUONZO MARTIN:   I think the tournament format is fine.   I think this is good for you guys to go into a tournament setting to get into a feel for a game, not a lot of time for scouting reports or turnaround time.   We didn't do a scouting report or break down, just allowed our guys to play and I thought they did a good job of making adjustments.   That party think we'll be okay.
Every team has to go through the same thing as far as limited time to prepare and get ready for a game.   First opponent, UNC Asheville, well coached ballclub, great history.   Coach has done a tremendous job with his players and they have a lot of new guys, talented young freshmen. 
So it will be a good game for us because once you get into tournament settings, neutral courts, which comes down to who has the ability to run the team, solid on the offense and defense and make plays in the end. 

Q.   Last year you had a pretty good game, 72‑68, talk about that game and did you learn anything from it to carry over for this year?
CUONZO MARTIN:   The thing we learned, we didn't want to play them again if we didn't have to.   They are very talented team.   Once again, if you are coached at the level they are coached at, and they have been in big games, big environments.   Last year had a tough game against North Carolina when they played them at their place. 
This is a talented team, and when you have the coaching they have, the calibre of coaching, they will always be in ballgames and they find ways to scheme and game plan and be successful. 

Q.   Your conference is the defending champion; do you feel any pressure? 
CUONZO MARTIN:   Not at all.   As a player, you put the pressure on yourself to be successful and compete and play as hard and you can play.   Alabama did a great job, beat my alma mater last year in the tournament.   I thought last year Alabama played really well.   I watched that game.   For us it's one game at a time and play as hard as we can play and execute at both ends of the floor. 

Q.   Can you go over the travel schedule? 
CUONZO MARTIN:   We leave on the 13th if I'm not mistaken at 5:00AM and I think we land at Puerto Rico at about 2:30, then we'll practice around 5:30, 6:00, then have dinner at 8:00 and then we go from there. 

Q.   This is your second year at Tennessee.   Do you feel that the program is in the right direction?   Has it improved over what you had the first year? 
CUONZO MARTIN:   Right direction, yes.   Improved, we will see.   I think our guys essentially have improved their skills. 
Every year is different because what happens, you have success last year as opposed to what was expected of us and you go into season two, you have to maintain egos and make sure the egos are channeled in the right directions; that guys are continuing to get better and play for Tennessee, as opposed to the name on the back. 
When you understand who you are playing for, I think that's the most important thing and we have to continue to do that play as a family (ph).   I think when you do those things on a consistent basis, but also understand and know that anybody can beat you at any given time; I think your preparation will be what it needs to be in order for it to be successful.

Q.   In August you played overseas, has that helped you much? 
CUONZO MARTIN:   I think so.   We went to Italy and it was a great experience for our guys to be outside of the country.   We thank the university for allowing us to do that first and foremost.   The dean and his wife went with us and it was a great experience.
I think more importantly outside of what took place on the basketball floor was the relationships that were built and genuine relationships off the court.   Our baseball coach and his wife went.   So I thought it was great.   We had about 30 alumni that went with us, and so it was a fun trip for everybody, my mom's first time ever leaving the country.   So for they it was a great experience as well. 

Q.   With Kentucky be the defending national champion, how is the Southeastern Conference stacking up for you? 
CUONZO MARTIN:   It's a great league.   I was very surprised, somewhat sad, that we only got four teams in the tournament last year; with this calibre of talent, this calibre of coaching in this league, just unfortunate.
So I really think this year, you talk about certain teams, if your key guys stay healthy across the board in the league, you are probably talking about 17 with the addition of Missoula and very talented teams, well coached teams.   I think you are looking at a great league and once you have this calibre of talent in the league, it's going to be a grind and anything can happen. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT