DAVIS CUP BY BNP PARIBAS WORLD GROUP FIRST ROUND: BRAZIL v USA
January 29, 2013
Thiago Alves
Thomaz Bellucci
Marcelo Melo
Bruno Soares
Joao Zwetsch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We'll take questions for the Brazil team.   
   
 Q.   Marcelo and Bruno, can you talk about playing the Bryans.   Talk about what makes them difficult to play and what is your game plan going in.   You're 2‑1 against them.   What do you think the keys will be?   
    BRUNO SOARES:   Playing the Bryans is always an honor for us.   They're the best team in the world right now.   They just won a slam.   They're playing in their home country.   
    It's going to be tough like always.   Even though we have a positive record against them playing together, we lost a few other times with different partners.   
    I think the key to the match is try to be aggressive.   Doubles right now is a fast game.   We're going to try to play our game the way we've been playing.   
    We also had a great start.   Marcelo won his first tournament.   I won also my first tournament.   We're feeling good.   The court is very nice.   We like playing indoors.   We're just looking forward for a great match.   
   
 Q.   Thomaz, you only played Isner twice, once in qualifying, once in a main draw, and never against Sam.   How do you assess the matchups against those two players?   
    THOMAZ BELLUCCI:   Yeah, anyway, I know Sam Querrey very well.   I practice sometimes with him.   He's a very good player, especially in this kind of surface.   He has a very good serve, very good forehand.   It will be very tough to play against both players.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the surface, how you found it, how it plays so far in practice?   
    CAPTAIN ZWETSCH:   Surface is a little fast, as we were expecting, not too slow.   We also used to play in this kind of surface.   Our players are much more used to this kind of surface.   
    We improving every day, in every practice.   We expecting a great performance on the weekend.   
   
 Q.   Thomaz, could you talk about what it's going to be like to have the crowd pulling for the U.S. team?   How much of an advantage is that?   
    THOMAZ BELLUCCI:   Yeah, always is a good advantage when you play in your own country with all the crowd.   Don't know how it's going to be for the match, if it's going to be a full stadium or not.   
    Anyway, we need to be very focused on the match and try not to think about the crowd, just think about the match.   
    THIAGO ALVES:   I think is going to be like Thomaz told.   When you play in your country, you have that advantage.   But we have our team here, too, so we have our stuff.   We can stay together.   We're going to fight with our weapons.   
    MARCELO MELO:   For me, as Thomaz said, when you play out of home, a big difference.   But it's good.   I think you need to see how to get energy from them, not against you.   
    Here probably is going to be the same.   I think is going to be full because they are playing good, as well as we do.   I hope to get positive energy against them.   
    BRUNO SOARES:   I like to play away, I think it's nice.   It's a good advantage to play at home, especially in Brazil, because they're loud.   I don't know how loud they're going to be.   I think it's nice to play away, it's just a different feeling.   
    There's going to be a lot of Brazilians here and I'm sure it's going to be loud.   We're going to have something to look for and cheer us up.   I think it's going to be a great weekend.   
   
 Q.   You really think there are going to be a lot of people from your country higher?   
    BRUNO SOARES:   I don't know a lot in terms of numbers.   But I know in terms of being loud, for sure, 'cause they like to be involved in the match and usually like to scream and go with the team.   
    So for sure you guys going to hear them a lot.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT