PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2018
Ben Kern
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So coming off 18 huge birdie puts you at even on the tournament so far.  That's right now putting you in the projected cut line.  What does that mean to you as a club pro going into the weekend potentially.  
BEN KERN: It's a blast.  Obviously, birdieing the last hole was just making the week even better.  It's been a blast so far and enjoyed every minute of it.   
 Q.  You're playing at the level of Tiger and Rickie and Koepka and huge names out here.  What does that mean to you?  You usually are playing at the club pro level and now you're out here playing with big-time names.  
BEN KERN: Yeah, I know deep down I've got a little bit of game left and obviously this week it's definitely shining through a little bit.  Great tournament last week, which kind of gave me some momentum into this week, and it's just been making the most of it.   
 Q.  What's your overall feeling right now going into the weekend?  Are you nervous, are you pumped or are you just kind of relaxing?  
BEN KERN: I've been telling a lot of people that I'm surprised that I'm not as nervous as I thought I would be.  Which is kind of throwing me off, which is actually kind of keeping me in the moment, which, it's been nice.   
 Q.  So what's been the highlight of the week for you?  Kind of rephrase it for me, the highlight of the week so far this week in your mind.  
BEN KERN: Highlight of the week is definitely just playing in front of all these people.  It's a blast seeing the grand stands up, people cheering when you make a putt.  That's not something I get week-in and week-out.   
 Q.  What do you feel like this opportunity will give you now?  Do you think it's going to be a game changer?  Are you going to play the weekend, have some fun?  Or do you think it's going to be like a huge momentum change for you?  
BEN KERN: It's just, I'm just getting two more days of awesome golf that's all it is.  I'm just enjoying this week.   
 Q.  First of all, talk about the putt on 18.  
BEN KERN: I left myself a pretty good putt, just straight up the hill left center.  And I could hit it firm, I didn't have to be delicate with it and it was a perfect spot.   
 Q.  And what's it like to represent your section, your hometown?  
BEN KERN: It's awesome.  I've gotten so much response and enthusiasm and texts, just a lot of support.  Which has been, it's been a lot of fun going through that and replying to that and seeing everybody from, not only my section, but even friends in all sections across the country.   
 Q.  Obviously, everybody wants to be here on Saturday and Sunday.  You got a legitimate shot to be here on Saturday and Sunday.  What will your feelings be on Saturday and Sunday?  
BEN KERN: It's bonus golf to me.  So I'm just going to make the most of it, have fun.  My main goal is to have fun this week.  I knew if I had fun I would play well and so far it's working out great.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT