ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 1, 2010
Colin Montgomerie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Good start?  
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I just need to get working at it with Power Plates and the blood flow, that's all, because the blood is the best healer in the body. I've torn a couple of calf muscles and it's bad. There's lesions and tears in a few muscles. I'm delighted they actually found a muscle. Somebody said I had a six-pack, too, it's just well hidden. I've got one.   
  
  Q. Any question of you not playing here?  
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Oh, yes, big question. I didn't play yesterday and woke up this morning; early start, and it's not the best to have an early start. But I'll be able to rest this afternoon and have some treatment now. No injections in France, so I'll wait for Scotland. Not that I don't trust the French.   
  
  Q. And you played Monday, too.   
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Yes, I won a tournament, another win, first win in eight years. The Schüco Open, winner. You are talking to the Schüco Open winner. I had to chip-in from 20 yards to win. Somebody said, "Okay, you've got to hole this Monty, 20 yards away."   
 I said, "Okay, well, we'll do that then."   
  
  Q. Good field.   
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: It was a good field with Martin and Bernhard and Geoff. I have a good group of players, Miguel Jiménez. They have a good group of players, yes, they do. Delighted. It's my major. I'm treating it as such.   
  
  Q. It will go in the media book.   
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: "Major winner." Eventually.   
  
  Q. So are you going to speak with Ollie this weekend?   
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Yes, I'm going to have a chat with him. I'm having a chat with a few people this week to see what's happening. You're probably aware of his announcement on the Tuesday after the Open, the 21st -- you don't know that? Well, I'm telling you.   
  
  Q. Whereabouts?   
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Wentworth, and I'll announce the vice captains then. I said I was going to do that after the Open and I'll do that.   
  
  Q. Three or four?   
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Oh, three or four. You'll find out on Tuesday.   
  
  Q. You would still hope that Ollie might?   
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I'm hoping that he's healthy enough and gives me an okay to be healthy enough. I'm concerned, obviously, and so is he, mostly him, about his health because he has not played and he has not been out there and he's not that healthy.  
 His joints are very poor as we know, so just glad he's here. We go way back, obviously back to the '84 Amateur final at Formby. It's a long time ago, and we've been battling together a long time and I'm sorry he's not as well as he can be. I'll be having a chat with him, as well as a few other guys here. I'll be chatting to a few other guys, as well here.   
  
  Q. Paul said yesterday if asked he would accept it, is that good for you? He said, "It's likely I would consider it" was his exact quote. Thomas Björn said he would definitely do it.   
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Oh, well, thank you. That's fine then. (Laughter).  
  
  Q. If he were to win here or next week?   
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Oh, no, this is why I've left this late, okay. This is why I've left it late, for one reason and one reason alone, to give everyone a chance to qualify, right. Everybody needed the chance to qualify. What I didn't want, and after The Open I'll have a much better idea, almost a 99 per cent idea, but I wanted to wait until after The Open to give everybody a chance to qualify for the team.   
 And if not, well, then, I'll make the decision. I think it was -- you can make these decisions too early and then you get resignations and you get all sorts of stuff. So I just left it until this time. I think that was, hate to say it myself, but wise.   
  
  Q. Even Paul said that.   
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Bloody hell. There you go. You see? I've done something right.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT