BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 25, 2010
Colin Montgomerie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q. Good scoring? 
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: It's okay. There's nothing winning in that. At the same time, it's nice to be playing at the weekend and be playing a lot better. My 62 has given me confidence at the Sunningdale New Course to qualify for the Open. I have got four important weeks and it's nice to start off with a half-decent total of 6-under halfway here.

 Q. What has been the difference for you for the last couple of weeks and before? 
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Just the opportunities fall on you through the round and you have to take them I suppose, which means holing the odd putt. 
 You know, out here, we all know out here ourselves, if we don't putt well, we don't score. I had two or 3-putts early on today, the first hole I played, the 10th and the 14th hole, my fifth hole, 3-putts, and disappointing to get off to that start. Then I had five birdies from then on and that was good. Managed to play at the weekend, and I look forward to possibly playing with Paul Casey again tomorrow.

 Q. Is it a case of, it's hard to do two jobs at once, being a Ryder Cup Captain and a professional golfer? 
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: It is, it's very, very difficult. I'd love to use that as an excuse why I haven't played well the last year and a half. 

 Q. You could. 
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I could, and I would be believed, but I can't, unfortunately. It is difficult. There's always two competitions from now on going within these tournaments. We've got more money to be playing for in the next month than we have all year, so it's a very big month for these guys and there's always two tournaments going on at the same time, one is, of course, the BMW International and the next is who is on the fringe of The Ryder Cup and who is doing well of that group. So it is quite interesting for everybody to see and to be a part of. 

 Q. And with that Ryder Cup hat on, there's two other captains that were playing out there this morning. Have you had a chance or will you get a chance to speak to either Nick or Bernhard?
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Yes, I hope to. I think Nick has missed out here, so I don't know what he's doing but I'll certainly have an opportunity of talking to Bernhard just about, really. It's easy if the whole thing goes well, but the thing we must prepare for is to be flexible and to have contingency plans afoot. He didn't actually need his because everything was going well. 
 But the problems arise when you don't and that's when we have to have flexibility and we have to have contingency plans and it will be interesting to find out what his were and we didn't know we had any because we didn't need him. It will be interesting to find out from him what was in his mind just in case things didn't go right. 

 Q. Is that a tear?
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Yeah, a complete mess, it links to my lower back, which I had a problem five years ago and I've always had a problem down my left side and now I've found a torn a calf muscle which has gone into my Achilles tendon which has swollen up, and that was very painful. 
 So I'm going back to the physio now, I was there all night, I got back to the hotel about half eight last night and the doctor here, the under 21 German football doctor is amazing. His boss, of course, is in South Africa for but the under 21 doctor has been fantastic and a real help. So I'm back there again.

 Q. Are you on painkillers? 
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Oh, God, yeah, I had a load of injections yesterday around my calf and Achilles tendon which is bloody sore, believe me. 

 Q. The last thing you want?
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: This is the thing and I've got to be careful with the Achilles tendon, especially. But being a football doctor, if you like, he's very experienced at dealing with Achilles and calf injuries that happen to footballers all the time.

 Q. Is this the first occasion? 
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: This is the first occasion this has happened and it's really -- I'm just getting around. If you saw me getting into the hotel last night, you would say, this guy is not playing golf at all tomorrow, and he's done a marvellous job and all credit to him. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT