THE CELTIC MANOR WALES OPEN
June 3, 2010
Colin Montgomerie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Your thoughts, please, on a round of 70.   
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: It's okay. Anything under par around here is good. The golf course has matured. It's playing long, and playing very well. So I think there's a bit of breeze sprung up, as well, and overall, conditions are lovely, mind you, and anything under par is okay, yeah.  
  
  Q. First competitive round you've played since you tweaked the golf course. Is it playing the way you hoped it would?  
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I think it is, yes. The odd run-off has come into play. The pins are in positions where it brings them in on the corners and the backs of the greens, so it's playing -- it's playing as well as I would expect it to play at this time of year.   
 We've had a very cold spring, ice and snow on the course, and we are very happy with the course as it is, yeah, very happy.  
  
  Q. You played today with Alvaro Quiros, obviously one of the longest hitters on The European Tour and currently in The Ryder Cup team; what are your impressions of him as a player?  
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: He's a fun guy and good guy. He was 3-over par earlier on and you wouldn't have known it. He could have been 4-under at the time. He was 3-over and not a care in the world, and got it back.   
 Great shot at third obviously, shot of the day, hole-in-one he had with us today at the third, which is super for him. I hit 4-iron there, he was deciding between a 7 and a 6. Eventually hit the 6; I was glad. Still went in, though.   
 But a real potential, a real European potential. There's a few of them out there right now, Martin Kaymer and Rory McIlroy, and I'll have to put Alvaro in the same context, a real potential of the future. And someone who hits the ball that far, what an asset that is.  
  
  Q. Clear up your comments for us yesterday about people playing at Gleneagles, potential wild-card picks; if someone doesn't play, are they going to damage themselves?  
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Not at all, no. They are not going to damage themselves, but at the same time I would expect them to be playing at Gleneagles. If there's no reason why they aren't play at again eagles, I would like to know about it before they don't play, if you know what I mean.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT