THE CELTIC MANOR WALES OPEN
June 2, 2010
Colin Montgomerie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   SCOTT CROCKETT: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your attendance today on this special afternoon. It's my great pleasure to welcome you all here today on the eve of The Celtic Manor Wales Open, and of course as we continue the down the to this year's Ryder Cup. 
 Before we talk to the man on my right here who will be central to that occasion, of course, I would like to acknowledge some special guests in the audience who are delighted to be here with us today. From The European Tour we have our Chief Executive, George O'Grady. We have Ross McMurray from European Golf Design who has done a lot of work on the Twenty Ten Golf Course; and so yes, you are all welcome.
 Those of us who were at the dinner last night, who were privileged to be at dinner, and a wonderful occasion it was, Sir Terry Matthews spoke of team work and how a team effort is important in everything he does. And now, a man who will be central to the European Team at Celtic Manor in four months' time, it wasn't that long ago we sat next to one another in Dubai and you were announced as captain, and time is flying by and we are now only four month away from the first tee shot. Can you give us your thoughts as The Ryder Cup gets ever closer? 
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: First of all welcome everybody and thank you for your attendance. Yeah, it was, it was a long way away, The Ryder Cup, back in February 2009, and here we are, 120 days away and in four months, and it will happen very quickly. 
 A lot will take place in that four months. We have three major championships to go. We have a World event to play, as well, so there's a number of events to be played for for the team's sake but as far as I'm concerned everything is shaping up extremely well, and I just look forward to the next four months of European success on the golf course before we come here and hopefully regain The Ryder Cup. 
 SCOTT CROCKETT: You had a number of questions over the last 18 months, but it's picking up and everybody wants to talk about the Ryder Cup now Colin, that's the case, isn't it.
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Well, yes, it's building up, of course. This year has been busier, and now this next four months will be very busy leading up to The Ryder Cup. 
 But I'm enjoying the position. I love the position I'm in. I suppose if you enjoy something, you're usually quite good at it and hopefully I am, and everything is going well. The team is shaping up extremely well, and we have a depth of talent here in European golf that I've never seen in my 24 years out here, and I just look forward to the honour of captaining that talent in four months' time. 
 SCOTT CROCKETT:             
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT