OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 4, 2010
Colin Montgomerie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Monty, a round of 71, but a hint of frustration not to birdie the last?  
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Yeah, not just that. I had a number of chances out there and I played quite well. I got my swing back together and I'm playing okay.   
 It's a shame I never took advantage of that, especially at the last. That was a rubbish lie there but a drain and a sprinkler head, and of course the sprinkler head causes more growth, of course, with the water coming through. So it was a worse lie than anticipated.   
 But apart from that, it was a solid round of golf. Only one bogey and I missed a fairway at the ninth, and just two birdies. Not enough birdies. The greens were not at their best this afternoon, so hopefully tomorrow morning we will have them a little bit better, and the scoring should be better in the morning.   
  
  Q. You've won here and you know this golf course very well; have you ever seen the rough more brutal?  
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: No, the rough is as high as it's ever been, and of course the wind today was a struggle. This course isn't straight out and straight back; you go round and round, and so you're forever different winds on different holes. And it was beginning to gust, as well, at the end there.   
 So it was quite difficult to get the right club and the right distance.  
  
  Q. Your opposite number, Corey Pavin, has chosen his vice captains: Lehman, Love, Sluman, Goydos. Your thoughts?  
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I don't have any thoughts. I wasn't ever going to have any thoughts on that at all. That's up to him and the American Team, and I wish them well.   
  
  Q. Your vice captains, I know you have some guys you are hoping to have as vice captains if they don't qualify; will you announce earlier or late?  
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: They will not be announced on Europe's part until at least after the British Open this year. So that is the third week in July, at least, before an announcement is made on our part, because I want to give everybody an opportunity of qualifying for the team. And I'll know more about what the qualifying situation is around that time.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT