PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 2008
Colin Montgomerie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. (Inaudible.)
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: It's very difficult obviously. I made it more so. But we'll see. 

 Q. What was so difficult out there today?
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Well I think everyone's coming in having stories and I've got my own story, but -- make that your last laugh, okay? 
 I have a couple stories. And I got off to a bad start and kept it going, unfortunately. When you get on a bogey run around here it's very difficult to get off it. The course is very, very severe. It's setup as extremely difficult as any course I've ever played. And nothing like the place that we came and did so well at four years ago. 
 Although I holed the same putt as I did four years ago there, that was good on the last green. 
 But very, very difficult. Most difficult. Some of the pin positions and the wind directs are most difficult. 

 Q. Too difficult?
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: No, I said most difficult. 

 Q. (Inaudible). 
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: No worries.

 Q. Let me ask you this question. Number 17, after many many difficult holes out here today --
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: That's one of them, sure, you have to hit it 35, 40 yards left of the pin and hope to 2-putt. That's your only shot, really. 

 Q. Were you disappointed with the way they set this up after the way they set it up for the Ryder Cup?
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: The U.S. Open was the best setup of the year for the Majors this year. And there wasn't many great scores during the Ryder Cup, it was a more of a match play situation where I think we all sort of enjoyed the setup more then than we did now. 
 But they have added 450, 500 yards to the setup of that course and with most severe conditions, but it's just very, very severe. The U.S. Open in my opinion of the four Majors this year had it right, yeah. We all feel that. 

 Q. What are you going to play before Gleneagles?
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Nothing. 

 Q. You said everybody's coming off with stories and you have yours, is there one particularly horrifying story out there today for you?
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I think when you score what I scored I think most of it was that way, unfortunately. But there you go. That's one of these things and you go away and you regroup and you come back again and try your best next time. 

 Q. Was it deservedly so, the 84?
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: What do you mean, sorry? 

 Q. Do you feel like that that was the score you deserved today the way you played?
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I think the conditions added to the score. But I wasn't playing very well, no. 

 Q. Do you think that it requires nothing less than a win at Gleneagles for you this season?
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: That's furthest from my mind right now. Just let me get home this evening and I'll think about it later on.

 Q. Is that the most difficult day you've had on the course?
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Most difficult day since my poor score at Muirfield in 2002, yeah, but the conditions added to that one. Unfortunately, it was a reasonably good day today. 

 Q. Are you conscious of that score? Were you conscious of that score from your last hole that you --
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: No, no, no, I wasn't. No. No. I wasn't conscious of much, really. 
 (Laughter.) I couldn't have been. 

 Q. In terms of the Ryder Cup, how disappointing is it to have finished this way?
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I'm not -- I'm not, I wasn't thinking about the Ryder Cup out there, I'm thinking about trying to play as well as I can around here.

 Q. But you wouldn't think that people -- there's an awful lot of people that want you to be on the team. 
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: So I'm not on the team, am I? Sorry, I didn't realize you looked like Nick Faldo, I apologize. I'm sorry. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT