THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 17, 2008
Colin Montgomerie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I've missed Boo. He's over there. He's a great guy. He had his support there, Boo, out there. I had my Monte supporters and it was all right. But he had his fan club. I wanted to join them. They're having a beer and having a good time, a better time than we were having, I can tell you.
 That wasn't easy this morning. I'm not the first person to come in to you and say that I'm sure. The early starters this morning I feel have had the worst of the weather, there's no question. You pray that the Open is fair at least when you start, so let's hope tomorrow is of similar proportion, because we start at 2:42 tomorrow, which is very late. So let's hope we can get a decent run at it tomorrow. But 73 today is safe, it's not great, it's not wonderful, but it's enough to have a good score tomorrow to get me contending for the weekend, and that's what I want to do.
 I'm not 76 or 77 where you're feeling a little bit out of things, so 73 is well in touch, yes.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I was always due. There's always shots left out there, but at the same time I got quite fortunate sometimes in missing the odd bunker that the drives could have gone in or what have you. You take what you're given. But it was most miserable out there this morning. I hit ten shots on the range, realised that was a bigger roar, came in, it was horrendous on the range, just a waste of time going out there.
 And pouring down on the first tee, so 73, I would have taken -- put it this way: On the first tee if you would have said 73 I would have gone down to the clubhouse and had another coffee. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Well, it was. It was also going a bit, as well. I didn't fancy the one coming back (laughter) for a bogey. That was very encouraging to have worked hard on the putting and then to actually hole one at the 1st hole in miserable conditions. That was encouraging.

 Q. What was the most extreme example of a shot going into the wind? 
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Well, I hit a -- at the 2nd hole I hit a good 3-iron and we were trying to clear the bunker at 170, and nowhere near cleared, never reached the bunker. That went 160 yards with a well hit 3-iron, and that usually goes 210, 215 in the air, so you're talking 45 yards of difference. It's guesswork, really. And with the rain and the cold -- it was cold because of the rain, you know? But anyway, 73 is okay. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: No, well, I've never been asked. You're asking other people. I'll answer any questions if asked (laughter). But no, you know what I've come here to do and I'll do this -- I'll say the same thing again at the Bridgestone and the same thing at the U.S. PGA. I want to get in the Ryder Cup team. I've played eight in a row and I want to make it nine. I don't want to stop playing in the Ryder Cup. I want to perform there. This has given me a good opportunity to gain some more points, world points, what have you, if I don't get in, to show sufficient form to be playing. 

 Q. Would you pick yourself given the Luke Donald situation? He was ahead of you --
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I would never pick myself, unless it was someone else. We'll just have to wait and see what happens.

 Q. The situation two weeks ago was you've said you weren't in the position you said you should have been. 
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Luke might come back in a few weeks and win the U.S. PGA and then it might change. So very hypothetical.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: If I didn't think of winning, I wouldn't come here. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Is anyone going to break par around here? Possibly not today. Only three back or a couple back, it's not -- yes, of course. Of course I feel that I can win here, definitely, yeah. I felt I could win in 2005, the same thing. Of course I feel like I can win here, yes. I'm swinging the club okay, I'm getting the putting a little bit better. And I'll practise this afternoon, make up for lack of practise this morning. I've played the course now once under these conditions which are going to be similar through the week. Now I can feel the shots that I have to hit now on the course, so I'll do that in practise this afternoon.

 Q. What was the most disappointing shot out there? 
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I three-putted the -- there was a bad three-putt at the -- I doubled the 10th. It was a bad three-putt there at the 10th where I was -- I had a terrible drive and I got back in position to make a possible 4 and ended up with a 6. That was the most disappointing. 
 But from then on to be 1-under from the 11th tee onwards was disappointing. That could have been 76 or 77 easily. To make it 73 was a good effort, yeah. 

 Q. Did you have to work harder for a 73 in terms of --
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: You know, 3-over par, I don't think any of us have worked as hard. We're all working hard out there, we are, to battle around here. It's very, very difficult, extremely difficult.

 Q. Is it fair?
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Yes, it's fair. It's just, unfortunately, He's in charge, but the golf course is very fair. A great golf course, but unfortunately He's in charge, and He messed up today (laughter). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT