SEVE TROPHY
September 27, 2007
Colin Montgomerie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  We played well but they played very well. I knew that was a strong team. Peter Hanson is a very strong player, very under-rated and holed nearly everything and Robert backed him up. They dovetailed well. That's what you need to do. They did do it and that was that.   
  
  Q.  Is it difficult to get yourself up?   
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  The Ploughing Championships have to finish. The sooner they finish the better and they can come round and support us. I get that size of crowd in a practice round in the evening and it is a shame. I think the atmosphere is limited and we need to get the Ploughing Championship over - I'm serious - and all the farmers can come over and support us.   
  
  Q. Has the lack of an Irishman had a detrimental effect?   
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  I think it's had a slight effect but there would be 10,000 watching the Irishman play and still 24 watching me! At the same time, I mean, Gary Player picked Mike Weir but it was a sell-out before that. It's a lovely place. There are some super games. It's a high standard and this is going to be another very close contest between the two teams and I think there is a lot of good golf to be played. It's a great golf course, good facilities and just a pity it's an hour and a bit from Dublin. I don't know if it's expensive. It's good quality golf but we need the farmers to bring their wellies and get over here. This event has all the potential provided everyone shows up. Eleven alternates is clearly far too many. Two or three you can get away with.   
  
  Q.  And McGinley resigning?   
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I thought his timing was unfortunate but I don't think it will have any effect on team spirit for next year's match. At the end of the day, maybe we're better picking a vice-captain a month before the event rather than so far in advance. Look at Thomas Bjorn, picked by Bernhard Langer for Oakland Hills a month before that event, and what an inspired decision that was.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT