WGC BARBADOS WORLD CUP
December 10, 2006
Colin Montgomerie
Marc Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
 MARC WARREN: Yeah, we did.  Again today, no bogeys, no dropped shot.  In that format, that was one of our keys at start of the week. Unfortunately we only made two birdies. The putts just wouldn't go in. Both of us played really well again today and  unfortunately got pipped at the post there.  
  
 MARC WARREN: It's the first time he hasn't made a putt in  ten feet; every time, he's holed every single putt. It's been an honour to play alongside with  him this week.  
I  
 MARC WARREN: Yeah, that's the first time I ever lost a  playoff in my life. Now I know how the other  guy feels. It's not nice.   
  
 MARC WARREN: No.  I've never been beaten in playoff amateur golf either.   
 It's not a nice feeling, especially  such a beautiful trophy.   
  
  Q.  Looked like you were seeing quite a few people miss that sort of put on  the 18th, is it a particularly difficult one?   
 MARC WARREN: Yeah, Carl Pettersson, he missed one slightly  longer than Monty's was. It's just one  of those things. A tough chip, he made a  tough putt and they played a better chip.  He did leave himself an easier putt and that's just the way it goes.   
 I think Monty had a good putt, it's  just so fast, downgrain, so much break, you're going to miss a lot of these  putts. Unfortunately that's the way it  goes.  
  
  Q.  Were you in very similar spots after the tee shots?   
 MARC WARREN: I actually thought mine was sitting down a  little bit more. I just thought through  the grass you have to be real aggressive to get the ball out. Just popped it out and I thought I played a  good shot and I was trying to hole it, but not trying to leave Monty a downhill  putt at the same time.   
  
  Q.  Were you hopeful that it would be an advantage, I don't know exact  times, but the Germans had been sitting idle for an hour, where you were just  coming off 18, did you think that would be in your favour?   
 MARC WARREN: I didn't really think of that to be  honest. They had time to relax and chill  out. They were on the range the whole  time I think. There's no real advantage  either way I think. I had that the  situation personally in Sweden, and we had a bit of time to wait  on the range, and I felt that was good for me, calmed me down before the  playoff.  
 Myself and Marcel Siem were playing  alongside two of the most experienced golfers in the world, so it doesn't  really matter what situation they are in.  They are going to perform anyway.   
  
  Q.  Can you just speak a little bit about what it was like playing with  Monty? You mentioned a few times already  what it's been like this week.   
 MARC WARREN: Just really seeing why he's won eight Order  of Merit titles. He's an incredible  golfer tee-to-green. He's just  relentless. Every shot is almost exactly  where Alastair, his caddie, tells him to put it. Looks absolutely effortless at times as  well. It's a joy to watch, and putting,  his holing out is incredible, especially under pressure. He's there every time to hole a putt.  
  
 MARC WARREN: Yeah, it would have been a great chance to  win and that was the primary goal to win but unfortunately that didn't  happen. It's a shame for Scottish golf  in general it never happened, but hopefully this will give them a boost anyway,  finishing second, beaten in a playoff.   
 Monty, I can't say enough about how  good he is and as you said, I've got a lot of work ahead of me to get to that  level of golf, that's for sure.  
  
  Q.  What did he say to you at the end?   
 MARC WARREN: He just said great effort. Nothing more we could have done, we gave  every shot 150 per cent and he's just as disappointed as I am. I don't think we need to say much to each  other, other than unlucky, really. It's  just one of those things.   
  
 MARC WARREN: Wasn't really -- couldn't think of  numbers. I didn't look at score board at  all, which is unusual for me for the last few holes.   
 But I knew obviously we were tied  with Sweden and Germany, and we knew Germany had finished. We were trying to birdie one of the last two,  unfortunately it didn't happen. I'm sure  hopefully both teams will be back and have a chance to win next year. But that's a long way off.   
 We've had a great week this  week. It was a great effort, we came  close, but there's not a lot more we could have done.  
  
  Q.  It's been an extraordinary rookie season, hopefully more and bigger  things for you, too?   
 MARC WARREN: A World Golf Championships to finish second  in your first attempt, although aided by Monty, there's some pride to that as  well. To be in this tournament, if  you're Top-50 in the world, it means you're playing well wherever you're  playing. Just to get into these events;  it was great to qualify and it was great to be here and hopefully we'll be  playing a lot more in the future, that's for sure.   
  
   
  End  of FastScripts…  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT