WGC BARBADOS WORLD CUP
December 8, 2006
Colin Montgomerie
Marc Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 MARC WARREN: Yeah, I've loved it. He's a great player and so solid tee-to-green  and holing out, I feel there's definitely one or two shots up at the start, you  have so much confidence in your partner and that in a way gives you confidence  as well.

 MARC WARREN: I think Switzerland was the first time I heard I had  qualified and that was a few months ago and I've been looking forward to it  ever since, just to get the opportunity to play with him and learn from him is  great for me.

 MARC WARREN: I holed a few putts. I think it was -- the whole day, I think we  only missed two greens all day, so we gave ourselves a lot of chances. If we were not that close to the hole, which  when it's windy it's tough to get it close.  Overall it was a good, solid round on the front nine.

 Q.  Do you feel that you're still right there with two days to go, right in  contention? 
 MARC WARREN: I don't think anybody is running away with it  at all. 11-under is leading, so three  back is nothing. Especially four-balls  tomorrow, get off to a quick start, you can shoot any number tomorrow. It's going to be tough which will keep it  bunched up in the conditions, as windy as it is, if you're missing greens, it's  tough. There's a lot of birdies and  still two days to go.

 Q.  Have you played with Colin prior to this week? 
 MARC WARREN: Yeah, I played twice. Played two rounds in Holland and played at Valderrama, last  round, I think it was. This is different  though, you're rooting each other on a bit more than you normally do.

 Q.  He's got a reputation of sometimes he doesn't look too happy on the  course in solo events, but I presume it's a different kettle of fish in this  thing. 
 MARC WARREN: Yeah, even in solo events, as well, I've only  known him to be kind of great with me, you know, good company. On the course he's been fine. 
 But this is slightly different. It makes you feel good, even if you have a  bad shot or miss a putt or something, he's always right there telling you, it's  okay, don't worry about it; we'll get it back.  He's been good support to me and that's given me confidence as  well. Just looking forward to a good  weekend. 

 Q.  The short one on 10, did the wind play a factor? 
 MARC WARREN: I think the wind is a factor on every par  here, the wind is so strong all the time.  I think that was a short putt, should have holed it, it was into the  grain and just popped a little bit right and horse-shoed unfortunately. 
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Yeah, it was all his fault.

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Well, we had six birdies today and he holed  them all so, that was good. It was many  I job to get as close as possible on the par 3s which we did, we birdied three  of them out of the five and that was the idea.  And we did very well today. We'd  have taken a 67 before we started, 4-under, and we're looking forward now to  the weekend. 

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Yeah, Sweden have just birdied the 16th there  but that's okay, we're in with a shot and we'll go for it at the weekend.

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Yeah, Scotland has. We finished second at Kiawah Island way back in 1997, was it, when I  played with Raymond Russell when it was an individual thing as well and I did  quite well there. 
 So we finished second so we look forward  to beating that by one. But we're both  playing okay, apart from my tee shot at the last was terrible. 
 MARC WARREN: And my putting. One each. 
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: We're even. 

 Q.  What happened at the last there, Colin? 
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I don't know what happened. I just sort of tried to hold up a 4-iron and  came over the top of it and pulled it left. 
 You know, we just made four, simple  as that and the Irish did the same. It's  a very difficult hole to finish, 17, 18 are very strong finishing holes and we  dropped one. 
 But, hey, that happens. 

 Q.  From the sounds of what Marc was saying, it might have been the only  truly bad shot of the day. 
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Yes, I think between the two of us, there was  a short putt missed but that can happen in the wind of course, but that was the  one bad shot that we hit between us and it's the first sort of real bogey that  we made in two days. So that all goes  well. 
 We dovetailed fairly well yesterday  and we did okay today. 

 Q.  The 6th was a particularly nice bonus birdie, wasn't it? 
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Yes, it was.  We were in a bit of a mess off the tee and the second shot and we  managed to get it on the green and Marc managed to hole a putt again after  great putts at the 4th and the 5th, holed another good putt at the 6th and the  8th. The iron shots were coming in by me  which was okay but you still have to finish them off. I never made a putt for a birdie today but  that doesn't matter; it's a team game. 

 Q.  This is his first year playing on The European Tour, are you surprised  how mature he is and how well he played? 
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Well, if he leaves the room, I can talk about  him. (Laughter).
 MARC WARREN: Save that for Sunday. 
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: No, I knew we had a good chance this year  with Marc. You win The Challenge Tour,  that's very tough to do, very tough to do in the whole year. Then coming on Tour first and winning his  first tournament against a Swede in Sweden, a Ryder Cup player in Sweden was obviously a proof that Marc can  handle himself under that type of pressure.  And he's proved himself again this week, you know, so there was no  surprise that we're doing well here. We  have a very good team. If I can just  keep going the next two rounds and help him, we'll be okay. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT