SMURFIT KAPPA EUROPEAN OPEN
July 6, 2006
Colin Montgomerie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
Four bogeys on the card.
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  Yeah, you know, five birdies and an eagle, yeah, you know, the bonus obviously to hole out from 102 yards, that helps.

But at the same time, you know, I don't know how I missed the 17th, hit the base of the pin, sort of ricocheted off and missed, I don't know how that missed, so I made a 2 there.

On the last had to retee it.  Put it right back in the position I was in and three off the tee, so that was good, a very good 6 I made there, because 6 always beats 7; I've always been a great believer in that.
Q.  How are the new irons?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  17 was a 5 iron, yeah, fantastic.  Yonex has these new prototype clubs, they are fantastic.

It pitched and the second bounces right of the hole and sort of hit the base at the back of the hole and jumped out and managed to hole that one.
Q.  Inaudible?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  That's fine, 3 under, I'm safe, nothing wrong with that at all and hopefully if the weather is as staid as it was today, and we'll have better conditions in the morning.
Q.  What did you hit in?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  Sand wedge, yeah, 102 yards.
Q.  Good pairing today?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  Yes, we had a good group, Michael, obviously played a lot of golf with Michael Campbell, and Tom (Lehman), very good.  Still plays very, very well.  I think he was 2 under today.  So excellent score.
Q.  Inaudible?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  I can't carry the ball 296.  294 it went, but not enough.
Q.  I know you're there to actually study
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  It's interesting when I watch other professional sport, I watch how quick they get and what happens under pressure and what happens with a line call that might be dubious and how people react to it and how they will react to the next shot and the next occasion.  It's interesting how others react to situations.  It's not always perfect.
Q.  What have you learned?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  I've learned that generally, generally if you react to a situation, the next shot's not good.  There's a definite Björn Borg situation where you accept the call and get on with it, and it's amazing how the next shot seems to be better and I'm learning that as I go along.  That shot doesn't have to mean it's two bad shots.

By all means, get a yellow card, all right, don't make it a red one, as opposed to Graham Paul.  (Laughter.)  By all means get a yellow card.  There's nothing wrong with making a mistake, but don't compound the issue and make it a red one, yeah, and a lot of people still do that.  That was like the last hole.  By all means, okay, three off the yeah, right, come on, don't get red and make 7; and let's try and make 6, and I did, that could win me the tournament, you never know.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT