U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2006
Colin Montgomerie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Talk about the round if you could.
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  17 pars and a bogey.  Assess the round?  That's good.  That's very good.  17 pars and a bogey, I'm delighted with that.  One mistake is good.  No birdies isn't, but at the same time it's very difficult to get the ball close to the hole.  The greens were very, very tricky, and you want to hit the ball hard enough to go in and yet you don't, so it doesn't.

You can hit the ball too hard and it goes on.  To scramble at the end, 17 pars is good because the afternoon, we all know how difficult it gets in the afternoon when the course dries out, it gets difficult, and this is no exception.  I'm glad I got in at 71.
Q.  Is the course playing more difficult than yesterday?
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  Yes, the course is difficult.  It's drying out.  Any course that dries out, especially when they put the pins at the front of the greens, you bounce through.  I hit a great 6 iron at the 9th and it pitched a foot on the green and it's gone 30 feet.  It is very difficult to get the ball close.
Q.  Luke Donald said in his press conference earlier this week that there are no courses like this in Europe, and yet you look at the leaderboard, Kenneth, Graeme, lots of European players
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  Padraig, too, he can't be left out.  We're doing okay this week.  I can't put my finger on why a European hasn't won this since Tony Jacklin did in 1970.  Pure coincidence that it hasn't happened, I'm afraid.  There's a few of us attempting to do that this week.  I'm glad I'm one of them.
Q.  While this may not be like anything played in Europe, is there something about this course setup that favors the type of player that plays on the European Tour?
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  I think it's different for everybody, so therefore it doesn't favor anybody.  A normal U.S. Tour event would probably favor the U.S. Tour player, but this is different for everybody, so everybody is in the same boat this week, this particular week, than it is otherwise.
Q.  Talk about Duval's round.
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  Duval played very well.  I respect him.  He's had a rough time, there's no question about that, and I'm glad that the support he had out there was helping him on.  He was 4 under for the round, which is a terrific effort.  He holed some great putts.  I wish him well for the weekend, but not that well (laughter).


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT