ABU DHABI GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 22, 2006
Colin Montgomerie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  No worries at all.  Back into the swing of things.  More Ryder Cup points and more World points and satisfactory overall.
Q.  Inaudible?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  I think he possibly well if he wins, yeah, there's a lot of points.  Made a couple of mistakes on 14    15 and 16 which was crazy but finished okay.  Nothing untoward.
Q.  Where do you go from here?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  I'll be at the clubhouse tomorrow, go home tomorrow night, get in Tuesday morning, and come back for Dubai.

It's all good, especially when your name is above the door, very good.  On my best behavior tomorrow night, definitely.
Q.  Make a difference to start the year, the first inaugural tournament have such a big aura about it?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  You're dead right, because we're lucky in some ways that they were the first on the calendar.  An inaugural tournament in May or June or something it would not have the same aura about it.

But because it's the first tournament of the year, first tournament of the Ryder Cup year, if you like, calendar year, the expectation is high about the tournament.  I think it's been very, very positive, the whole thing.  There's a five year deal here as you're probably aware and I think we're all looking forward to coming back here.
Q.  You'll be back next year?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  Definitely.
Q.  Even though the year is starting earlier than normal?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  Yeah, but I think everything is earlier this year, Dubai is earlier as well and because of that 24 people are not playing.  Usually there's 144 at Dubai and that's unfortunate, but at the same time it's starting earlier.  So what are you going to do, start later and get the chance or start now and have more chances?
Q.  Do you have something in the works in Dubai?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  No, nothing in Dubai.  But yes, there's opportunities arising around.
Q.  There is talk there may be four or five weeks next here next year.
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  The Far East seems to be the next goal.  I think it's great, it's giving opportunities to the members.  I sound like George O'Grady now, but Ken Schofield, that was his goal, wasn't it, give an opportunity to the playing members, and this is what we're doing.  And if we start early, we start early, but bugger it, tennis has started, the tennis, they have the first major; the U.S. Tour started, they are in the third week already as well.  So we cannot    no, no, we mustn't worry about giving opportunities to members.  This is what George O'Grady's job is and we're doing a marvelous thing at it.

I've been taken care of, hospitality is great, service is great, we feel very safe, and if we have five weeks starting off here, great, fabulous.
Q.  Inaudible?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  There's a big cycle, first event in or outside of majors and World events, yes, if you think about there's a Top 5 in America with Toms and DiMarco after Mickelson, Furyk and woods, so yes, of course they do, yeah.
Q.  Inaudible?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  There's a definite awareness going on here.  They don't want the to lose the Ryder Cup three times in a row, we know that.  We have to be aware and we have to prepare.  We have to be ready for that.
Q.  Good feelings about coming back to Dubai?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  That would be lovely, like the course, like the place, you feel comfortable, you tend to do well.
Q.  We're hearing stories of a co sanctioned event in Dubai, supposedly on your course, have you heard that?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  I haven't heard that firstly.  Secondly, my course is ready for that.
Q.  Vijay wanted it on his course, too, a before Christmas tournament.
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  Well, I don't know, it's great, great, fantastic, any opportunity to play a co sanctioned with the U.S. Tour, that sounds marvelous.  That would be a first.



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT