WGC AMERICAN EXPRESS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 9, 2005
Colin Montgomerie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  I played great on the back nine, got nothing out of it.  I hit some great shots in there.  11, 12, 13, 14, them all, and didn't get anything from it.  I played level par.  I missed a putt there at the last, disappointing really, but never mind.  3rd, I'd have taken 3rd before we came, so that's okay.
Q.  After the birdie on 17 you had a shot.
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  Of course I did, birdied the last, but that hole is dead against me.  If I was to build a golf hole, I would build it the other way.  That's a hooker's hole and I'm a fader.  Anyway, I played it 1 over for the week.  It's better than some.
Q.  After the emotions of last week and the rest, this has got to be a pretty darn good week.
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  Yeah, I'm tired now, very.  I've done okay.  I came here to try and do a few things, and I achieved them.  I'm coming away very positive and can take it on next week into Madrid.
Q.  Did you feel like the crowd got behind you more as the tournament went on?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  Yes, the crowd were great today, as they have been all week.  Obviously they're going to cheer more for John, that's understandable.  They were very fair all week.  They're a super crowd.  I do wish, because I played with John the last two days, I wish him luck in the next 20 minutes.  He'll need it (laughter).
Q.  How does it feel?  Any consolation?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  None at all, thank you.  It feels fantastic, thank you.  I had a goal at the start of the week.  I had a goal and I had to try and overtake Michael Campbell and also get some more Ryder Cup points, which I achieved, and some more Ryder Cup world points, Ryder Cup money points.  There's over a million euro already on the Ryder Cup list, so we should be okay.
Q.  We've got two more weeks left, two tournaments left, Madrid and the Volvo Masters.  This is going to be an exciting couple of weeks ahead in terms of the races.
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  The advantage I have is I don't think Michael is playing the next two weeks.  I am in Madrid, and I also feel that I've got somehow a little bit of advantage at Valderrama.  I know the place very well, and I'm playing well.  It's just a matter of keeping going.  I tried every shot here, and that's all I can do.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT