WGC AMERICAN EXPRESS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 8, 2005
Colin Montgomerie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








RODDY WILLIAMS:  Okay, Colin, some day out there, but it's shaping up for quite an exciting final round tomorrow.
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  Yeah.  It was okay.  It was interesting for me.  John and I come from different ends of the scale (laughter) in a lot of ways.  He's a good lad and he did very well today, from 3 over par after 3 to 3 under.  He drove the ball magnificent today and it was a matter of everyone else just hanging on, really.  I did particularly well to par the last ten holes, so I'm quite proud of what I did out there to beat par and to stay in contention.

That's what one always does come Saturday night, is to give oneself an opportunity to win, and I've done that, and we'll see what happens tomorrow.  It's very noisy out there, very noisy, but it's all good fun and it's good to see their heroes, but it's an event and a half.  We'll see what happens.
Q.  Did you get at all frustrated on the first nine given how well you were hitting the ball?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  By missing a few putts.  Yeah, the greens    being last off, of course the greens aren't as good as they are starting off, but I just didn't have the feel with the putter the first few holes.  I should have been under par but wasn't.  But there you go.  I'd have taken 69 before we started, so that's fine.  I hit the ball well through the week, really.  I've hit the ball well the last month, and I look forward to trying to do the same tomorrow.
Q.  You had another weather pattern today.  Can you describe the wind, the challenge, the conditions?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  Yeah, it was very difficult out there today, very difficult.  Quite cold in places, as well.  But that's okay, that's part of the game.  It didn't really affect it either way.  I was just glad in more difficult conditions to shoot under par.  I played my best golf today.  I played the best golf that I have over three days today.  So we'll see what happens tomorrow.
Q.  You said it was all in good fun, the noise of the crowd, but is it difficult while you're trying to concentrate on your own game?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  Well, that's part of the game, I'm afraid.  It's like, you know, playing slightly away from home, if you know what I mean, and that's just part of the game.  If this was in Scotland it might be different, but it's not, it's a long way from Scotland, and it's all good fun.  I'm enjoying it.  I'm enjoying the whole scene, having won last week, to relax with nothing to lose, going out there and enjoying myself, so I look forward to playing tomorrow.
Q.  Can you talk about    with everybody bunched together, the finishing holes stand to be fairly interesting with how different they are, can you just talk about how those things can change over the last few holes?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  Yes, the last five holes in particular are playing into the wind and they're particularly difficult, and a lot of scores were ruined today.  I saw one of our European colleagues, Graeme McDowell, was 6 under for the day, a remarkable score after 17 holes, and I hear he finished with an 8.  Anything can happen on these particular holes.  They are particularly difficult.  I was just delighted to get in to play them at level par.  And John to play them at 2 under was a great performance.
Q.  The noise you're talking about is mostly for John, and I'm curious, having played with him, tomorrow    you're obviously playing with him again tomorrow, anything you learned today that will help you going into tomorrow?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  No, not really learned anything, I suppose.  You just are aware of the fact now that the crowd are a very boisterous one, which is positive in every way.  They get into the golf.  I believe that San Francisco doesn't have a Tour event anymore here in this region, and this is their only golf that they have for some time, and you understand the support, which is great.
Q.  How did you play the 18th hole today?  A lot of guys are having a hard time holding the fairway.  It seems like you've played the hole pretty well every day.
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  Well, I'm level par for the hole.  I wouldn't say I've played it very well.  I've been off to the right on two occasions.  Yesterday I bogeyed the hole just, but today I hit it well right off the tee, trying to hit a high one and came off it.  And then I managed to get a very good up and down, had an awful lie on the right but made sure I missed it on the right side there, so I gave myself a bit of room to chip and putt.  You've got to think your way around that hole.  That's a card wrecker, that one.
Q.  You had said in reference to the crowd that if it were in Scotland it might have been a little different.  Do you mean people would be quieter there?  And the second part of the question is, is the noise an impediment?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  Not necessarily quieter.  If you attended the British Open this year it was very noisy for me.  So yeah, I mean, I understand the situation.  The crowd are very fair.  They're very fair for everybody out there, but they're just noisy, which is fine, which I'm sure John gets everywhere he plays.  He does very well considering where his    the way he hits the ball and the way they want to see it be hit.  From the 7th hole onwards it was hit remarkably straight and remarkably long (smiling).
Q.  Two parter:  One, John said he had a chat with you around the course.  Did you talk at all?  Secondly, how would you define different ends of the scale?  Are you just kidding about
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  No, I don't mean that way.  I mean that I hit it 250 yards and he hits it 400 yards.  That to me is two ends of the different scale.  But we weren't talking that much today.  It gets quite serious towards the end, but we weren't talking that much because he's that far ahead or waiting on the tee and I've begun forward.  So we never really were near each other.  It's actually quite good fun.  I look forward to playing with Sergio tomorrow and John, and we'll have a bit of fun tomorrow.

FastScripts by ASAP Sports....


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT