WGC AMERICAN EXPRESS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 6, 2005
Colin Montgomerie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  You were the best round out there today.  What were the keys?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  I didn't make any mistakes, lack of bogeys, and that's how I have played for the last    when I was No. 1 there for a while, it was the lack of bogeys.  That's key for me today.  I had a couple of chances of making bogeys at the 5th and 6th and managed to hole good par putts, but that was key, lack of bogeys.  You're going to make a few birdies and obviously birdies counteract that.
Q.  Were you curious to see how this course would represent today, kind of the first time with the pros?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  I think it came out on top, to be honest.  The scoring started off okay, then the course sort of bit back, if you like.  The course is firm.  Whenever a course is firm, it plays more difficult.  And I'm just glad I'm in today, because tomorrow is to be quite poor, 15 degrees cooler and quite windy.  It's going to be very tough tomorrow.  I'm glad I'm in safely today.
Q.  It might be a little like Sunday when you won not long ago?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  Yeah, eight hours different.  It's tiring when you have won and you come over to America to try it again.  But yes, I don't mind if the conditions turn, as long as it's the same for everybody, which of course it will be, and it'll be tougher out there today, very hard.  So I'm just glad.  I'll relax tonight and catch up on some sleep that I've lost.
Q.  Can you speak to the momentum of what was a terrific week and good finish for you last week?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  It was a good week last week obviously.  It was a fabulous week for any Scot, to hole a winning putt at St. Andrews is very special.  After having been there just two months previous in the Open Championship, having finished 2nd to Tiger and then coming back and winning was very special for me, and it was my first win for 19 months.

Somehow, you know, you feel is it going to happen or not and have I had my last win.  You never know.  And it's nice when it does happen again and it gives you some self confidence and something to go forward with.  That's what I took out of that last week.
Q.  Sergio called it a pretty simple 6 under par for you today.  Was it simple?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  They're never simple, very hard, very demanding.  I drove the ball well.  If you put the ball in the fairway, you can score, and that's what I did today.  I put the ball in the fairway 90 percent of the time and then I could hit any irons on the greens and then you have a chance.
Q.  Bradley Dredge birdied the first three holes today.  How well do you know him?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  I don't know him.  I played with him on the Seve Trophy team two weeks ago.  That was the first time I was introduced to him.  I don't know how he finished the round, but he'll be challenging for a W in the Ryder Cup, I'm sure.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT