BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2005
Colin Montgomerie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Well, here we are at Wentworth again, new sponsor, do you think it's been racked up a notch or two?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  I can't    it's difficult to rack up, because what are you going to do?  Done Volvo?  No, no, because Volvo did a great job and still does a great job at Andalucia.  So I think what we do is welcome a new partner, and we're delighted to have such a fantastic partner in BMW take over.  That's what you want to say, and they have done a very, very good job initially.  You know, it will work out over the years but they have done a fantastic job already.
Q.  It has the feel of a very big tournament.
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  A very big tournament this year, very, very good.
Q.  And does that bring the juices flowing?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  I think it does.  I think it's the sense of occasion and the sense of where we are.

I just look forward to it tomorrow, look forward to it tomorrow morning.  I have a good draw with Nick and Luke Donald.  We all play a similar type of game, not really bombing or anything; it's placement, and that's what this course is good about.  You should find one of us to do very well this week.
Q.  You all put a premium on accuracy.
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  All three of us do.
Q.  How about coming in here, because last week you said last week was a strange and unique week for you?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  A very strange week and I'm glad it's out of the way to be honest, because I was almost concerned for my playing partners for the first time, especially Michael Campbell getting into trouble early on, and I thought, "Oh, God, is it my fault" then.  I had all sorts of new middle names you know, but that's fine.  I make no apology for making it tough.  I don't think that the guys were ready for that type of test of golf outside a major.
Q.  Well, I think the course stood up to it brilliantly, lots of positive vibes.
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  Oh, terrifically, I'm having all sorts of positive words to me.  David Probin did a great job with me to set up the course, and John Plummer, the greens superintendent, did a fantastic job.  The greens were super.  So, I mean, I guess the only part of it was I don't think the Tour were ready to play a normal    normal Tour event of that difficulty and that severity in mental test of golf outside a major.  They weren't ready for it.  When they come back next year, they will understand that this is what it's about, yeah.
Q.  I hear the greens are good here.  How do they compare pace wise?  Lee said maybe not as true but a bit faster?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  Maybe not as true?  A bit quicker, which makes the job very, very difficult, doesn't it, at this time of year.  So we just, as I say, we look forward to it.  I'm looking forward to tomorrow.
Q.  And you need, what is it, to qualify?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  I don't know what it is.  Hey, if I get in this way, it will be great if I don't, there's still two options to go.  There is an invite situation and Walton Heath, as well.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT