DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
March 5, 2005
Colin Montgomerie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  I had four glorious chances at the last four holes and not one went in, but there you go.  Golf, I suppose.  But two hit the lip and two were dead on-line.  Anyway that's four shots.

But 66, I can't feel bad about that.  I hit the ball as fantastic as I have for the last two months since I went to the Target World Challenge at Sherwood before Christmas.  I started to play well there, really well.  This is continuing.  Four Top-10s in a row and it seems that I might do the same again tomorrow which is good.

It's exciting for me to get back to a ranking where I truly believe that I should be, and it's difficult.  It not easy.  It's very difficult to try and move yourself up bit by bit.  It's like trying to eat an elephant, for God's sake.  I can do it; it's just I have to have it bite by bite, you know.
GORDON SIMPSON:  That's an interesting one.
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  Well, it's possible.  You can eat an elephant, but you have to do it bite by bite.  You can't do it all in one go.

So I'm just trying to do that.  I'm just trying to chip away, chip away, and I'm trying to get back to a ranking that I feel comfortable with.  I'm 63rd right now; I'm not comfortable in that position and I've got to try and get forward from it.  It's not easy.  It's not easy.  But, you know, the standard is improving all the time, and I've got to try to get back into that.  There's not many can do that, and I feel I've got a real challenge ahead of me, and I do look forward to it.

The Target World Challenge tournament gave me a lot of confidence to start the season, and started off Singapore with 65, and boom, I was back again and that's great.  Missing last four putts, that's fine.  It's nice to see.  I spent most of last year not really bothering, and this year I am, very, very bothered.  It's a whole different thing, so it's fantastic.

I really feel good about everything and I'll good off tomorrow and see what I can do.  I need minimum, minimum, 66 or 65 or something like that to have a chance.  I've got to either -- I think it was Mark Garrod that said I have to finish in the top to or second in my own to get in the Top-50 tomorrow, and I've got to beat either Ernie or JimÃƒ ©nez.  And they have got their game on and I've got to go out and start well and then keep going with it, as well.  So it's a challenge and I'll look forward to it tomorrow.
GORDON SIMPSON:  Questions, please.
Q.  Those four putts looked really good.
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  Yes, thank you.
Q.  But when you hit those kind of putts and they don't go in, at the end of it, how bad do you feel or how good do you feel that you really made a good attempt but it didn't go in?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  You obviously don't know me well enough.  (Laughter.) I never really feel great when it doesn't go in, okay.

So, you know, I don't mind mis-hitting it, if it goes in, I don't care, I don't mind, but they were reasonable putts and didn't go in, but that's the game.  And if we holed every putt, we'd all be doing it.  It's one of these things but we'll try again tomorrow.
Q.  How did you get the bogey in the morning at the first turn?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  Yes I hit the fairway, a good drive.  I pushed a 6-iron right of the green, a bad shot, really and chipped up to about six-foot and I missed it, and that was that.

But to get seven birdies from then on in was good when I fell back to 6-under.
Q.  Did you get jabbed signing an autograph?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  Yesterday I did, yes, a bit of a scrum after I finished, but there's pens and things flying around and I got jabbed in the arm, so that was enough of that.
GORDON SIMPSON:  Thank you very much.
Q.  How long big of an elephant?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  Oh, I don't care, the bigger better.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT