VOLVO PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2004
Colin Montgomerie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  So you did well today to get it back to 2 under; pleased with that?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:   Yeah, you know, 2 over after four, to make 6 in the middle of a fairway with a 6 iron in your hand on the fourth was a bit of a hard one to take, and then I thought, okay, we'll get a goal here, I've got a goal, I need goals now, I need to focus on things, and I needed to focus and say, okay, we'll try and get back to level par for the day and that was my goal.  Obviously, I must achieve that, so that's quite satisfying from then on in.

You know, there's nothing wrong with the swing.  As Vijay was watching on the last tee there.  He said, "Well, there's nothing wrong with your swing.  That hasn't gone."  It's just if the brain decides to link in with the rest of the body it will be fine.  But it hasn't quite achieved that yet.  But 70 is okay.  As you say, it     it's okay, I think.  Nothing untoward.
Q.  Any negative thoughts creeping in or intruding when you're playing?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:   Well, of course, yes.  Every hour of the day, you know, and it's difficult sometimes to concentrate fully in a five hour round.  But at the same time, you know, very fortunate to what I do, putting my heart and soul into my golf.

I'm very fortunate to have this job right now, unfortunate in some ways that it's in the public, but I'm very fortunate to have the job.  99 percent of men watching today would love to do what I do.  So I'm very lucky in a way to have this job, if you like, business, work, play, whatever you like to call it and get on with it.
Q.  Obviously big support from the galleries.
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:   Yeah, fantastic.  Fantastic.
Q.  Biggest galleries in the history of the tournament.
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:   Is it?  That's super.  This tournament has grown from strength to strength over the years and it is our flagship event.  It is nice that Ernie and Vijay have come over and done very well.  Both, to be 14 under between them, I believe, for the day is a good effort.  It's nice not having just traveled for the sake of it; they traveled to win. It's super.
Q.  Because of injuries, Seve may have played in his last tournament.  Do you have any favorite memories of Seve over the years?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:   I haven't been reading much written or spoken word right now, but at the same time, it is a shame, because, you know, there's few, few players that in this game look uncomfortable without a club in their hands, and he's one of them.  The club just sat in his hands beautifully, and it was a joy to watch.

Of course, I had a good go with him here in  '91 and he beat me; terrific.  And it's a shame that's what happened to Seve.  I think we all agree, that it has been a shame to see someone with that amount of talent suffer the way he has.  But, let's hope that if he does stop, that he might come back in a few months or years, we'll see.  We'll see.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT