DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
March 5, 2004
Colin Montgomerie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Thoughts on the day?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE: That was a good day -- to be level par yesterday and then come today and shoot five under for 22 holes is good because the course is tough. I think there are a couple of shots out there that are more difficult than in previous years. The rough is very big  and the greens look quick but they are not on the surface and it's difficult to score -- always around here, so 70-69 is good and I'm very safe for the weekend.
Q. Everything seems to be coming together, and your putting has been good -- especially on the ones coming back?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I've always holed out quite well -- I always have. I've never lost my nerve or got nervous over anything and always holed out pretty good, so I'm not worried in that sense. It's quite good now when I chip up to seven or eight feet and they are going in. The eagle putt on the third was vital and then to hole good putts at six and seven for pars and then to come in parring eight and nine -- which are never easy -- was very good.
Q. The old you used to get into a good position on the leaderboard on a Saturday night and almost frighten everybody -- will we see that again tomorrow?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Well, it's been a few years since I frightened anybody, but at the same time, that's my job now. It's very easy to slide down a list or rankings and it's very difficult to get it back again and I'm clawing my way back again. My worst finish in the last six tournaments is 16th and that's what I used to pride myself on. I played a round of golf round here in the wind without dropping a shot -- I pride myself on that and we're just trying to get it back. But it's a long way back and to let it slip badly last year but now I'm trying to claw it back.
Q. What's the secret to that?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Well, that's the thing. When I won here in 1996 I hardly saw the range, I didn't understand my golf swing -- I just came out and played golf and now it's harder than that because the competition has improved dramatically and I have to try and improve accordingly. Yes. It's a mixture of relaxation and hard work -- if you know how to do it then tell me please because I don't!
Q. This week the media is focused on Woods and Els which frees you up, but does that hurt a little bit as well?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE: No, I've had ten years of me scoring 75 or 65 and making the headlines and that's enough in anyone's lifetime. So it's great that Els and Woods are here and it's great that they are not leading to be honest. Hopefully we are in for a great weekend. It's a great tournament this one -- it has to be one of our best stops. They say the weather is guaranteed  but it hasn't been this week with the fog, but that's just the time of year I'm afraid but we're all set for a good weekend and I'm glad I'm part of it.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT