VOLVO PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2001
Colin Montgomerie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:   I think I putted the last six greens, which is like six birdies to me, two of which were pars and four were birdies, but I shouldn't have been in that position in the first place.  I hit just missed two very, very short putts on 11 and 12.  One was three foot at 11 and one was four foot on 12; that didn't help.  So, just one of those things.  And 3-putted the third, as well.  So, just disappointing for a 6.  I was short on 2 and missed the fairway on the right  -- never mind.  Got off to a fine start to birdie the first, a real bonus.  And then hit the wrong club on the second.  I hit an 8-iron and it spun off the front of the green and I made bogey there.  But I'm playing very well.  It's just that it's very close to being very, very good.  I just keep on producing some silly, silly performances on the greens, and, you know it doesn't help.  But six putts on the last six holes helps, I suppose, and even if you get four birdies  -- the longest one, there they were 13, 16, 17 were all about 12 feet, and then the last hole, I missed that one. But it's a 69 in a way  -- okay.  If you think a 69 is fine, good, solves the problem, but you know as well as I do that it's not really good enough  -- stopping me from going 65, which is on  -- which is on.  You start, birdieing the first hole, you think:  "Great, come on," because that's a real bonus.  It's a four and a half hole and you make two 3's on it already, a real bonus. 
 
Q.  Two holes, really and you're only five away?
 
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:   You know, there's five and a half shots, six shots, and it's just silly, really.  Just things I wasn't doing, obviously, two, three years ago, and they have crept in.  You make mistakes.  And I'm making too many mistakes. You know, I had seven birdies today, and I only shot 3-under, and that's not really -- usually seven birdies meant 6- or 7-under, you know.  So that's the problem.  But, never mind.  Never mind.  There's no worries.  It's just a matter of negating the mistakes and we'll be fine.  
 
Q.  Very unfortunate, but does it take the pressure off you in any way, maybe after the first you probably thought you had a chance in the tournament?
 
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:   Birdie the first, 3-under, I'm looking like a very low score, obviously.  On the second tee and I made a mistake on the second and the third, and then suddenly played the first three holes 2-over and you birdied the first.  I mean, heavens, you know  -- never mind.  Never mind.  
 
Q.  Have you been following what's going on with Wales and Ryder Cup -- 
 
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:   I read something last night, I was just whittling through and it said that Monty's defense seems to be over and done with, and I read underneath that apparently Ken Schofield has declined that it has actually gone to Wales yet.  I never thought there was  -- anyway, it seems I've been I've been following it, of course I have, because I've been heavily involved in trying to get it to Scotland.  But, I don't know.  
 
Q.  So you have not been privy to anything? 
 
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:   That's the first I heard about it.  I thought the decision was being made around the time of the Ryder Cup, so I can't say why he's having to deny rumours that it's already gone to Wales.  So, you know, we're a few months away here, four months away, so I don't understand that.  That's for you to ask him.  I don't understand.  
 
Q.  After the result of the yesterday  -- he says as time goes on, they will be visiting all of the venues over the next couple of months and the decision won't be made until September.  Is that what you understood? 
 
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:   Well, I understand that's the first I've heard of it, having to deny that it has not gone to Wales, as if something has.  It seems a bit  -- 
 
Q.  At some time did he not suggest  -- who was it that suggested to you that you could be captain in 2009 in Scotland?  Where did that come from? 
 
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:   Me.  (Laughter.)  It would, wouldn't it  -- 
 
Q.  You wouldn't be so keen if it were at Celtic Manor? 
 
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:   Well, I'd be interested, but, personally, if I'm going to be captain in 2009, which seems to be my time , I'll be 46, I would prefer it to be Scotland.  But you can't start making  -- I suppose it was for Seve, I suppose, but he's a bit different than I am.  You can't make venues for:  Okay, you'll be captain.  What if you're not around?  The way I think about the Irish situation, whether it is going to go to Smith or whether we should give it to whoever, that's the next type of idea.  And obviously, if it goes to Scotland, well, then yes; afterwards, you would think about me.  But it has to go to the country first and not think about the captain, then the country.  No, no, you can't start that. 
 
Q.  Are you fond of Celtic Manor? 
 
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:   I've never been there.  I hear the facilities are very good, but I've never played the course.  I've heard some remarks on the golf course and that's all I've heard.  I haven't been there.  I haven't played there. Obviously something was out then to have to say that, wasn't there.  Why say:  No, it hasn't gone to Wales, when nobody has said that it was?  I don't know.  It's the first I've heard of it.  I just read it last night and that's the first I heard of it.  So, I can't really comment, you know, without speaking to him or whatever.  I haven't spoken to any of the Ryder Cup committee.  Like as I say, I've always been  -- I have to qualify.  May have to be picked.  I just hope I play if they pick me this time  -- (Laughter.) 
 
Q.  You had a look at Henrik Stenson for the first time?
 
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:   He's a charming lad, for starters.  Forget his golf.  Nice guy.  And obviously done very well.  Good luck to him, you know.  He's doing very well. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT