WGC AMERICAN EXPRESS CHAMPIONSHIP
November 12, 2000
Colin Montgomerie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Can we bring up the subject of the Order of Merit?  Get it out of the way?
 
COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Yes, you can. 
 
Q.  What do you think?
 
COLIN MONTGOMERIE: What do you mean, what do I think? 
 
Q.  What are your feelings?
 
COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Well, on my part, yeah, I mean, it's nice it came down to the last tournament again and I gave myself a chance.  I've played particularly poorly for the last few months, since the Open, really, I suppose.  I haven't really competed the way I would have liked to.  I putted very poorly throughout that time.  I haven't given myself the best chances, the chances I have had to win  -- the British Masters and also  -- where else was I in contention?  Somewhere else.  I didn't take these opportunities like I would normally. But at the same time, it's, you know, I suppose these things come to an end eventually, and it's been very, very good, a very good time I've had.  It looks like Lee Westwood is going to pit down, which I suppose is only fair.  He's won six times this year.  He might well make it seven today. I suppose, you know, Darren got off to a flying start, 600,000 ahead of anybody by the time we started this Tour.  And Lee's done the best to play catchup and overtake.  And I think the way things are going, I think he's going to do that.  And all credit to him.  All credit to him. I've held him off for a while now; and, you know, they've come through, both of them, and all credit to both of them.  
 
Q.  Are you slightly disappointed that Lee doesn't play up winning the Order of Merit?
 
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  Excuse me? 
 
Q.  Is it slightly disappointing for you, having placed pride in winning the Order of Merit, that Lee seems to (inaudible)?
 
COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Yeah, he does care.  Don't be silly.  Of course he cares.  Don't ever think that.  Of course he cares.  
 
Q.  That's not what he's been saying. 
 
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  Well, he might not be saying that, but he cares.  Right?  I don't care what he's saying.  Don't ask me what he says, you know?  Don't ask me what he says and then ask me to repeat  -- you know. I don't  -- he cares.  Believe me, he cares, whether he says it or not.  
 
Q.  Are you still losing weight?
 
COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Yeah, I am; yeah.  
 
Q.  What are you down to now?
 
COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I think I'm under 14 stones the first time since I passed it when I was about 18.  (Laughter.) 
 
Q.  Are you going to stop?
 
COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I don't know.  That's just the way it's going. 
 
Q.  What are your plans over the winter?
 
COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I'll practice putting, I think.  Really, I've got to really practice this very, very hard, and do it and get it right, because I don't putt well enough.  I went 20, 22 holes there in the middle of the round from yesterday through today without a single putt.  22 holes in a row without a single putt, I mean, you can't compete doing that.  It's just very, very difficult.  So, unfortunately, that's the reason, and has been, as I said, for a major part of the year.  And it's difficult, really.  
 
Q.  Without taking anything away from your achievement of winning seven Order of Merits, which you said and we will most probably agree, will never be repeated, is there now sort of some sense of slight relief that it's over?
 
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  No, no.  
 
Q.  This season?
 
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  No, not at all.  Not at all.  You think Steve Redgrave would win a silver medal in Sydney and say,  "Thank God.  Haven't won a gold"?  No.  
 
Q.  We won't be bringing it up to you.  (Inaudible). 
 
COLIN MONTGOMERIE: No, no, no.  I've enjoyed every comment you've made in the Order of Merit the last eight years, believe me.  (Laughter.)  I've enjoyed it.  And, believe me, I've enjoyed every comment you've made about it.  Yeah, I have enjoyed my time, believe me.  And it's a time that no one else has had, and I really enjoy that time very much so, very much so.  And now, my goal is next year to win it back again.  That would mean more to me than anything, if I can win it back in that ninth year.  That would mean more to anybody.  That's more to me than anything.  That's my goal now.  I have to go away and find a way of getting back on top again.  That's what I'm going to do this winter.  
 
Q.  What tournaments are playing?
 
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  I'm playing  -- I got a Lexus thing to do next weekend, I'm off to a Skins Game in America, then straight from there down to Johannesburg for Sun City.  And that will do me, I think.  
 
Q.  You've said you'll celebrate the seventh that you've won at some stage?
 
COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Some time.  Some time I'd like to, yeah.  Some time. 
 
Q.  Any ideas about that?
 
COLIN MONTGOMERIE: No, not yet.  Not yet.  
 
Q.  What specifically will you work on, on your putting?
 
COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I don't know.  I don't know yet.  I'll have to figure it out.  I don't hole enough putts.  I don't  -- miss far too many opportunities given to me.  I don't take them, and it's disappointing, really.  My golf's always been sort of a regular standard, but just whether I putt well or not.  If I putt well, I'm usually in contention.  If I don't, well, I'm not.  It's as simple as that really.  
 
Q.  You have a green at home?
 
COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I do, indeed.  Yeah.  
 
Q.  Good enough to practice?
 
COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Oh, yes.  Oh, yes.  Plenty good enough to practice.  And we'll see about doing that, certainly.  Certainly, yeah.  
 
Q.  This time last year I think you were saying you were going to go and see Paul Marchand?
 
COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Yes.  Yes, I did.  And it was working for a while.  The PGA victory was great for me, again.  That was super.  I look forrward to that again next year.  But I've got to find it more consistent than I have over this year.  
 
Q.  Might there be a Peltz moment?
 
COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Yes, yes.  Sure.  There's no reason why not.  Yeah.  No reason why not.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible.)  You're not going to run your whole life around it?
 
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  No, I'm not going to run my life around it.  I've run my life around it too long, to be honest with you.  There's other things in life apart from Order of Merits.  As I said, I've done that.  I've been there and I've done that.  I think we all realize that that might not happen again.  You know?  So I'm not running my life around that at all.  If I play well, it will happen.  
 
Q.  Will you stay around and congratulate Lee?
 
COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I've got his mobile number on my phone personally, but I will call him when I know the result, definitely.  Or if it's Darren, I know his number as well, and I'll call him.  Yeah.  Yeah, I think that's only right that I should do that.  
 
Q.  It's a difficult balancing act next year.  You're going to spend more time in America preparing for the Majors. 
 
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  Sure.  
 
Q.  If you really do want to win another Order of Merit over here, you conceivably have to play more  --?
 
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  It's winning these type of events that do it.  You know?  That does help, sure.  And the bigger events in Europe, certainly.   But I'll be playing in all of them, so there's no  -- it's just a matter of getting better to win these type of tournaments.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT