U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 12, 1997
Colin Montgomerie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LES UNGER: Congratulations on a terrific opening round.

COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Thank you.

LES UNGER: Six 3s on the back 9. I wonder if in your wildest
aspirations, you expected this on the first day?

COLIN MONTGOMERIE: As I said, when I came here the other day,
that obviously I was confident with what I was doing. And, it's
just nice to come to such a big event as this, and my favorite
event, and prove it. But, obviously, this is the first round of
four, and it's just nice to have 5-under in the bank already,
because I'm sure I'll need them all as the week progresses.

LES UNGER: I wonder if you wouldn't mind, please, going through
the card so we can get the birdies and the distances and the details
of that.

COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Yeah, sure. I set off and hit an 8-iron to
8 foot of the first and missed it. Then a 2-iron to 6 foot at
the second and missed it, and a 5-iron to 4 foot at third and
missed it. And, so, when I missed the fairway at the 6th hole
and had to hack out with a sand wedge and very important 8-iron,
that was the most important shot of the day. I hit an 8-iron 157
and hit it stiff. That kept the momentum going so I could birdie
7. Hit a 7-iron to 3 foot. And then on 9, hit a 3-wood, sand wedge
to 8 foot, missed it. Then 9, hit a sand wedge to 6 foot and holed
that, so that kept the momentum going. 10 was a 3-wood, 4-iron
to 10 feet. 11 was a 3-wood wedge to 15 feet. 13 was a 3-wood
7-iron to 4 feet. 16 was a 3-wood 8-iron to 4 feet. And, if there
was one shot I suppose I'd like to have back again, it was the
second shot on 17 from the middle of the fairway. But, to say
that you only have one shot back or require one shot back again
is quite nice to say, and I pushed it right in the bunker, didn't
get up-and-down. Hit a good putt from about 15 foot, but it missed.
Then I played safe the last with a 6-iron into the middle of the
green. I wasn't going for any heroics at that stage. I just wanted
off with a 3. Delighted, obviously, with a 65. As I said, I might
need them all as the week progresses.

LES UNGER: Was it the 10th hole, the one a lot of fellows didn't
think could be birdied?

COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Well, I mean, yeah, 6 and 10 are probably the
toughest par 4s on the course. But, it makes a big difference
when you're on the fairway as I am -- mostly I can hit good iron
shots. My distance control today with my iron shots was as good
as I've ever seen it. If I hit it 158 to the pin, I hit it 158.
If I had 178, I hit it 178. That makes a difference. Let's hope
that continues. If I can continue to hit the fairways and iron
shots the right distance, which is vital around here, because
the greens are very sloping and very fast, I'll be okay.

Q. Colin, you were cruising along at even par for 6 holes.
What got you started on your birdie ride there and were you pleased
with the way you were playing because you were certainly so patient
and was that also the key to the round?

COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Yeah, sure. I mean, any player that comes here
needs the word "patience" to score today. But, 6 was
vital for me today. After missing three opening birdie chances,
6 was the most vital hole of the day. And, that kept it going
to enable me to hit a good shot in at 7. If I'd missed that par
attempt at 6, for instance, if I'd made 5, which was on the cards,
to go to 1-over, I possibly wouldn't have birdied 7 and therefore
not 9 and 10 and 11 and, what have you, so 6 was the most important
par I've made for a long time.

Q. Colin, two-part question. You've been one of the top players
the last few years. You've been so close. A: Do you feel like
the majors kind of owe you one? And, B: How much do you attribute
your weight loss to your good play in the last, you know, many
months and couple of years?

COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Well, firstly, no tournament owes me anything.
I have to go out and earn it. Yes, I've been close a couple of
times at this event. It doesn't owe me anything. I have to earn
whatever I achieve here. And, my weight loss was doing quite well.
It's not what it was. But, we'll see about the weight loss. I
don't want to talk about the weight loss too much.

Q. I mean, has that helped your game? 

COLIN MONTGOMERIE: It did throughout last year, but I've been
-- I don't know, I haven't worked out as much or haven't spent
as much attention on it as I possibly should.

Q. Would you tell us why the U.S. Open is your favorite tournament?
Weren't you at odds a little bit with the gallery last year at
Oakland Hills?

COLIN MONTGOMERIE: That's a question. I don't remember me being
at odds with any galleries at the U.S. Open. I love it here. I'm
as happy playing in the U.S. Open as Tiger Woods is playing The
Masters. This is a tournament where I'm very, very comfortable.
I'm very -- sort of look forward to any round of golf and any
shot I hit. I tend to drive the ball as straight as anybody. And,
that is a great advantage here. And, my iron shots off good lies
are usually quite good. And, if I can hole some putts and keep
them below the hole, and what have you, I can score. So, I'm very
happy playing U.S. Opens. I just wish there were more tournaments
set up this way. I have to say, for starters, this course is as
good a conditioned course as you will find anywhere, to mow the
fairways with the green mowers back and forth is tremendous. And,
I went out there this morning. My caddie was out trying to get
the pins at six o'clock and they're out mowing the fairways, 30
of them, or something this morning. All credit to them for making
such a fantastic course to enable me to hit the fairways and have
such great, great lies to enable yourself to hit such good iron
shots. But, I'm comfortable here because I hit so many fairways,
and that's why I'm comfortable here.

Q. I just heard what you said about the Open. But, you've called
it your favorite event. I would think that maybe that term next
month would be more important in your mind?

COLIN MONTGOMERIE: No, it's not. The British Open at Royal Troon,
obviously, is something I've looked forward to since it was announced
that it was '97, and I don't have to qualify for the thing. But,
this, to me is my favorite tournament of the year. I look forward
to this. I've said that many times, and to start out with a 65
only gives me more confidence of what I'm doing. And, it is a
very, very demanding golf course. And, as I say, I'm glad I've
got that in the bank and hopefully I don't need them. But, possibly,
I will.

Q. Colin, you missed several putts early and then started making
them. Did you make a specific adjustment or what did you do differently?

COLIN MONTGOMERIE: No, I didn't. No, actually, I hit reasonable
putts on 1, 2, and 3. I saw Tiger Woods on the third, especially
have my putt. I had it for birdie. He had it for par. And, we
both missed it in the same place. It just tended to break or not
break as much as we thought. But, no, there was no difference.
Just trying to be patient and trying to say, okay, well, this
one might go in; this one might go in, and, they eventually started
dropping.

Q. Colin, two questions: The first one is how do you rate this
round in your career, particularly a major championship? I know
that the 65 a couple of years ago was your best to date. How do
you rate this with that? The other thing is can you talk a bit
about the snake at the 18th.

COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Yeah, this round -- although this round was
one -- I mean, I was 6-under round Oakmont the second day, shot
65 round there. But, this -- I believe it is a tougher test of
golf than Oakmont, and I hit the ball certainly better today through
the green ball-strikingwise than I ever have. This is possibly
in major golf the best round of golf I've ever put together. The
snake at the last, these things happen. It came out of the water,
I believe, and that was that. The crowd seemed more intent on
watching the snake than me trying to putt for 64, which was fine.
It took the pressure off a bit. So, that was fine. But, these
things happen. It was right in the walkway from the bridge to
the green.

Q. Was it wearing a press badge?

LES UNGER: No press badge.

Q. Colin, you talked about having this round in the bank. Can
you talk about what this round does to set you as far as your
mental approach and how you feel going into Round 2?

COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Yeah, I've often said especially major golf
and especially this type of tournament that you never win -- you
never win the tournament the first two days. You can only lose
it. And, that's important for me to keep in there. It's one of
these courses where you can't really attack and come back into
things very easily. You've got to have it. And that's what I meant
by having a 5-under on the board and safely in there, that it's
nice that I can go out tomorrow with a different feeling as opposed
to have to attack or to make cuts or to get back into contention.
That's what I meant by that.

Q. You know, for driving the ball so straightly, can you talk
about your decision to hit so many 3-woods today and how many
times have you used the driver?

COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Very easy to answer that. I didn't use my driver
once today. It stayed in the bag. I used my 3-wood 15 times, three
par 3s. I used it 15 times. I just stood up at the first tee today,
hit the first fairway, and then the third, and felt quite comfortable
with it and the length it was going. I just kept going with it.
I never changed. I didn't bother hitting a driver at all. There's
possibly a myth about this course where you need length. You need
accuracy much more than you do need length. And, I'm long enough
lucky enough to be able to hit my 3-wood. That's what I did, I
hit it every hole.

LES UNGER: Was that a change in the strategy that you had earlier?

COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I was planning on hitting my driver on holes
like No. 6 and holes like No. 17, but I just felt comfortable
with what I'm doing and I kept going with it. I'm one of these
people that don't like to mess around too much, if it's going
that way, I'll stick with it.

Q. How far --

LES UNGER: Distance, please, approximate distance on your 3-wood.

COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Well, yeah, I mean, I can -- I mean, there
was a couple of -- hole 16, for instance, that, I was just short
of the bank. It was a 296 run out -- I hit it from 285 to 265
and that's ample, ample length for any course, I hope.

Q. Colin, do you go into a tournament like this with an expectation
of a score it might take and then when you have a score like you
had today, you talk about being able to not be as aggressive over
the next three rounds; do you worry about getting defensive?

COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Yeah, not particularly. I don't think of winning
scores because the USGA have a knack of dictating how we can score
by setting up the course differently. But, no, I feel that you
just try your best and take one shot at a time and put the best
swing on or the best putt on or try to think properly and the
course management on every shot, different shot and not think
-- not get ahead of yourself and think of 68 or 67, whatever the
case may be. You try your best and think of one shot at a time
and that's what I'm thinking of. I'm not thinking about the 18th
hole or 17 and how difficult it might be. I'm trying to think,
a long 15, I'm trying to hit the fairway with a tee shot and course
strategy at that 15th hole, so I'm not thinking about winning
scores at all. I know if I play well from now on, I have a good
chance and that 65 has aided that chance of winning. But, that's
all it is. It's only a good start and there's an awful long way
to go.

Q. Colin, within that context, the beginning of the golf course
has played level par for most of the names on the leaderboard
and then they moved into red numbers about halfway through the
front 9. Is that a particularly difficult stretch of the golf
course?

COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Sorry, the front -- the first six holes are
difficult. Yeah, they are. It's like any major, I suppose, the
first hole is possibly as easy as it gets as a par 4, but because
it's the first hole, very difficult hole to birdie. Yeah, 2nd,
3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th are very difficult par 4s, they all are. It
doesn't matter how long they are. You still have to hit the fairways,
still have to hit the greens. But 8, 9 give as much of a chance
as there is a chance and then you get hit with the 10th which
is very difficult. Then you've got 13, 14. There's not many chances
at all. But, yes, it seems to work that way.

Q. Colin, we've been hearing all week about how long the course
is and how the long hitters are going to dominate. Did you never
buy into that?

COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Not particularly. As I said, I'm long enough
to cope, but I'm accurate enough to cope. That's No. 1 in any
U.S. Open course is the accuracy that you attain. And, I was fortunate
today, I hit 14 out of 15 fairways. And, if I can do that for
the rest of the week, well, I won't be far away, but, I've got
to do that. I've got to keep doing that. You can't compete from
the rough here. It doesn't matter how long you hit it, you just
can't compete if you're in the rough.

Q. Colin, you were applauded for skipping a tournament recently
to help with the kids while your wife was a little under the weather.
Would you speak to your priorities and where golf stacks up and
so forth in your life?

COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Yeah, golf is very much a job for me. And,
I have a lovely wife and two lovely daughters. And, they're one,
two and three in my life, and golf is very much secondary to that.
And, yeah, my wife was ill and I took the week off, the Hamburg
week off, the TPC, and decided to play the next week which was
fortunate. I happened to win it coming here, and I'll do that
again and again. And, golf is very secondary when it comes to
family. Family is No. 1 in my life and always will be.

Q. I believe you said that you were happy to get off the 18th
hole. Is that a reflection of your feeling of the hole or just
the way you felt today?

COLIN MONTGOMERIE: It's a reflection of the hole. I think anybody
that makes 3 there is quite satisfied. Especially when you're
5-under U.S. Open and you have a 3 for 65, you'll take it, and
I took that 3 and got off. The putt had a chance with a couple
yards to go but broke a little bit left, but I was delighted to
sneak it up there quite close that I could tap it in.

Q. Colin, just to clarify. I think you said you hit 15 3-woods
and you hit 14 out of 15 fairways, but isn't there only 14 fairways
and did you maybe hit 3-wood on No. 2?

COLIN MONTGOMERIE: You'll find on this course, there's only three
par 3s. Is there four par 3s?

Q. There are four par 3s and two par 5s.

COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Well, there you go. You're right. 13 out of
14. There's 14, okay?

Q. And then you hit 14 3-woods today and not 15, right? 

COLIN MONTGOMERIE: That would be correct.

Q. What did you hit on No. 2?

COLIN MONTGOMERIE: A 2-iron. Well done.

LES UNGER: Likewise. Any more?


Q. Colin, you seemed to walk up to your ball and you were playing
very briskly. You looked like you were brimming with confidence
with what you've got going. Would that reflect your state of mind?

COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Definitely. I don't like to dwell on things
when I'm trying to play out there. You have to think as positive
as possible, and the longer I feel I take over the shot, I can
start thinking about a negative point in the shot or something,
and I don't want that to happen. So I would rather hit it quicker
than slower. The slower I tend to hit the ball, things -- I start
thinking negatively, and I don't like that. I've always been quite
brisk when I'm over the ball. My putting, as well. I like to think
of confident things and not dwell too long on the shot. 

Q. Colin, have you won on golf courses that you haven't liked
or are you the sort of player you have to go to courses and tournaments
that you really enjoy and your chances increase?

COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I think anybody -- you know, my schedule in
Europe is based around courses now where I do enjoy and do like
playing, and generally the sort of tougher the course, the better
I tend to do. And like the Irish Open last year was a very tough
examination, and I managed to win there. But, yeah, I like --
I like the way that this course is set up, as I said, and I like
the toughness of it, and I'll always like it, whether I do well
here or not. I look forward to 1998's U.S. Open already. 

Q. Colin, can I ask, what is your first memory of a U.S. Open
as a lad, and what would it mean to you if you did get the monkey
off your back on Sunday and you won and you lost that Tiger being
the best player not to win a major?

COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I remember watching Tom Watson at Pebble Beach
whenever that was, early '80s, I think when he chipped in at 17,
and I remember looking at the rough and thinking how difficult
that was. And I honestly felt when I finished that round of golf
in 1992, when I finished level par and things were happening on
the course, I thought I've done the same. I thought I was going
to win at Pebble Beach, but it wasn't to be, and -- but, no, I
think I just love this course and this tradition of it and the
way that the courses are set up. 

Q. You're one of the best players in the world. I wonder where
you would put winning a major, how complete that would make your
career or how incomplete you would feel if you never won a major?

COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I -- people - you media - tend to make out
that it's a bigger thing than it actually is. If I never hit a
golf ball again, I'll always be proud of what I've achieved already
within the European game especially. And I've lost two playoffs
in majors. I think you have to be quite fortunate to win one.
You have to be in the right position at the right time and play
well and you have to have fortune on your side, as well. Obviously,
it would complete a career, but it wouldn't be the end of it hopefully.
Hopefully if I could do well here and take it forward, then it
would give me confidence to know that I'm capable eventually of
doing that and take it forward in a month's time which, again,
is a very important week for me.

LES UNGER: Okay. Those of you who would like to talk a little
bit more I'll ask Colin to stay right here.


End of FastScripts.....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT