THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 31, 1996
Colin Montgomerie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 WES SEELEY: Colin Montgomerie, 71, 69, 66, 68, 274, 14-under-par,
and a third, second place finish on the shores.

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Thank you for reminding me of the fact.  Very
kind.

 WES SEELEY: There are many worse finishes we had.

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: It beats third.

 WES SEELEY: There is one that beats it.  Tell us about the
day.

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Front 9 went well.  When I chipped in from
the back edge of 2, that got me going, then I birdied, hit a good
3-iron to four foot at 5, and then good 4-iron, seven to ten foot.
 A good five, 6-footer at 9, so that was me, 5-under at the turn.
 I was off then, then the back 9 sort of stuck a wee bit.  I didn't
birdie 11 or 12.  Had my chances 13, hit a good shot, stopped
in the bank, didn't roll down to the pin.  And 14 hit a good 4-iron
and to 10 foot,  holed that.  That had me 6-under.  It all hinged
on 16.  I heard Freddy's cheer; one hit in the green and then
too the roar must have been his eagle. I knew he got to 17.  I
was at 16, so I had to go for the shot. You don't get many opportunities
in these tournaments - these type of tournaments, Majors, if you
like to win, and I took it on and I got wet, unfortunately.  I
just pushed it slightly - about two, three yards right than where
it should have been, and it was wet.  And that was "tournament
over," I am afraid.

 Q.   What was the club?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE:  3-wood.  I hit it -- I was in between a 2-iron,
3-wood, the distance was 230. To get close I, tried to cut in
a 3-wood and overdid it.  I was going to win at that stage, I
had to get to 7, 8-under for the day.  I knew that's what it would
take.  As I say, you don't have many opportunities.  I had to
take it.  It worked at Dubai.  Here, it didn't. At least I started
the day fifth and finished second, I suppose isn't too bad.  But
it was a lot closer than the four shots that Freddy won by, I
suppose, at the end of the day to finish the way he did, I mean,
you just got to bow to that and say "well played, very well
played."  I mean, to finish 3, 2, 4, terrific stuff. He doesn't
get much of a gallery following him either. (AUDIENCE LAUGHTER.)
You know exactly what is happening ahead of him.

 Q.   The shot into the 16th looked like it was going into
the woods.  The rough and the sleeper bounced over the green?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Did it?

 Q.   Yes.

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Thanks again. (AUDIENCE LAUGHTER.) Anymore
good news you have got for me. (AUDIENCE LAUGHTER.)

 Q.   Had he not eagled 16, would you have hit a different
club or would you have hit the same club anyway?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I would have hit the same club anyway I was
in a position where I could get close and I tried to get as close
as I possibly could.  And of course, you  bring 6 into the equation,
unfortunately that is what happened.

 Q.   Shouldn't have done anything to dampen your sort of confidence
at all?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: None at all.  Second here, that is confidence
boosting, totally.  I had just got in a position to win and didn't
take it, unfortunately, but I mean, you know, I got to bow to
Freddy if someone goes out and shoots 64.  I knew I had to shoot
something of that order and I got it to 6-under through 14 and
I said I would take two 66s at the weekend and I was going for
that and still wouldn't have won, so you have got to say "well
played" to Freddy, definitely.

 Q.   Where to from here, please, Colin?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I am going to drive up to Atlanta tomorrow
morning and try again and then over to Augusta and then to Hilton
Head and that is my four. Then I will come over for two more Majors
over here and that is it.  I will play six here this year.

 Q.   I guess it is almost better maybe not to win before Augusta,
because it would be too much of a --

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: No. (AUDIENCE LAUGHTER.)

 Q.   But recent history indicates not many people win in Florida
win at August?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Okay, well, yeah, I am playing well enough
to win.  I am playing well enough to win anywhere including Augusta,
I know that.  It is just a matter of being fortunate and being
lucky at the right time and a little bit of fortune going your
way  and Freddy had that today and good luck to him.

 Q.   I guess a first and a second out of the blocks are two
good starts?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I am not complaining, yeah.  I am not complaining,
sure.  Sure.

 Q.   Does it give validation to everything that you have done
in the off-season?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: It does indeed.  Yeah, I have almost wanted
to play this game a little bit fitter than I was before and it
is proving its worth already, yeah.

 Q.   We asked a lot of the U.S. players early in the week
about, you know, winning this kind of money and what it does to
the money list, and when you start your career if someone said
you were going to finish second and still take home almost $300,000,
is that all good or --

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: It is not all bad, is it? (AUDIENCE LAUGHTER.)
Aye??  I don't know.  That takes care of itself.  I know if I
play well enough, that should take care of itself.  I don't think
about that so much nowadays.  I enter tournaments to try and win
them and with that, obviously comes the financial reward, but
I am not playing golf for a financial  reward.  I am playing golf
for the competition and the competitiveness of it, and to try
and win.  But, yes, I mean, it is very nice, thank you.

 Q.   You just seem so much more relaxed and comfortable. 
Is that a part of your physical fitness has changed?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Possibly.  Possibly. Yes.  I am not probably
as intense as I was.  I am more relaxed with myself and it seems
to show in my golf, as well.  I am more relaxed about the way
I look when I approach greens and you know, this sort of business
and I am happy with myself.  It hasn't hurt my golf either.  I
am playing as well as I have, so that is key as well.

 Q.   Aside from the shot at 16, is there any other one that
you look back on that you'd like to have over?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Just that one.

 Q.   That is it?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: No other.  I played the front 9 as well as
I could.  Not really.  No.  16 was first time being in the water
this week and first bogey I had made since the 6th hole on Friday,
so disappointed in that way, but that is the way it goes.  Just
that shot.

 Q.   Did you know when you had hit it or how soon  after you
had hit it did you suspect it might be not what you intended?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: About -- well as soon as you make contact
you know.  You know the feel off the club head.  You know the
flight of the ball; you know exactly where it is going.  There
wasn't enough wind out there, unfortunately, to do anything about
it.  So as soon as you make contact, you realize there is something
awry here.

 Q.   Were you aware of where, I guess, when Freddy  -- when
there was a three-way tie for the lead before Freddy made eagle,
did you know where you stood?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Exactly.  Oh, exactly. You can't miss them.
 I am always looking at scoreboards to find out exactly what I
need and what I don't need.  I think it is always foolish, I feel,
not to look at them.  Because around this type of course there
is a bail out and if you are two ahead, you bail out.  You know?
 But tied for the lead, and sort of the type of quality and exemptions
and everything that goes with this tournament, you try to win
it when you get in a position when you are leading, but anyway,
it has been a satisfactory week and I'm looking forward to the
next one.

 WES SEELEY: Can you fill in just going  through the round,
what you hit in on 2 and how long was the chip.

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I hit 2 drivers just through the back and
chipped in with my 16th green wedge.  I went through the other
holes --

 WES SEELEY: On 9 what did you hit in?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: 9 was 2 drivers and my L-wedge my lobber wedge
and 14 was a driver 4-iron to 10 foot.

 WES SEELEY: Thank you.  Anything else.


 Q.   Where were you when Fred made eagle?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I was just finished.  I had just holed my
par-putt on 15 walking to the 16th tee.  You didn't have to tell
me who hold it or what it was for.  It was loud enough.  Honestly
I thought someone made one on 17, the racket that was going on
there, I thought someone had holed it.  It was just his putt for
2, so.....

 WES SEELEY: Anything else?  Okay.

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Thank you.

 End of FastScripts.....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT