THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 27, 1996
Colin Montgomerie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 WES SEELEY: Colin Montgomery, the leading money winner on
the European Tour the last three years, and the winner of the
Dubai Desert Classic two weeks ago, and glad to have you here.
 How is your game this week?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Obviously having not played last week, when
I take a week off, I take a week off, and haven't played, so came
out here on Sunday and practiced Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, now,
and obviously very confident.  I just played one tournament this
year and won it.  I have taken the best part of three months off,
and I feel very confident with what is going on.

 Q.   How much had you practiced before Dubai?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Nothing.  I have done a clinic for Callaway
in the rain for half an hour, and that is what I had done before,
so...

 Q.   Until you got there you mean?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Yeah. I didn't play at all.  Didn't play for
three months since Jamaica, so I  am one those people that doesn't
need to play, not when I am not around the golf tournament.  I
put my clubs away and leave them there, don't play at all.  And
came out had 18 under and was quite happy with that, and obviously
I've come to America this month, I've got four tournaments here,
and I am obviously as confident as I have ever been with my game
right now.

 Q.   What are the four tournaments?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Well, just four in a row through the Heritage.


 Q.   What were your expectation in Dubai?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: My expectations were to get into contention.
 I didn't realize, actually, that to get into contention as quick
not having played, I'd thought I was more rusty than I was, and
it turned out a lot better than even I expected there.

 Q.   I guess much had been made of your new conditioning program.

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Yeah.

 Q.   How have you lost the weight?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Dropping -- dropping fatty foods, really;
things -- everything that I like I can't have. (AUDIENCE LAUGHTER).
And that is really what it  has been.  I have drank a lot of water
and low fat stuff, and I have been working out.  I have a personal
trainer at home now.  I have got a gym at home, and I have to
go down to some serious fitness as well, and that has accelerated
it. That made me stronger as result of it.

 Q.   What food do you miss the most?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Most of it now.  All the wrong stuff.  I miss
my French fries and I miss my burgers, and all the stuff that
is bad for you, but tasty at the same time.

 Q.   Who is your personal trainer?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: He is a guy from Riverside Club in Chiswick.
 He is just a personal trainer who comes to the house.  He came
to the house every day for two hours with me, and we worked very
hard.  And he has been good for me.  I have got him for the rest
of the year.  It is a year plan.  I started on January the 3rd
and it is a year plan, so I sort of haven't finished yet.  I want
to tone up what is left and be a lot fitter than I am even now.


 Q.   Do you enjoy working out?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I have got to the stage of enjoying it now.
 The first couple of months was hard work, yeah, I couldn't say
I enjoyed myself at all.  But I knew I was doing something constructive
during my time off, so I kept going with it.

 Q.   How much do you weigh now?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: About 210 something.

 Q.   Down from what?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: More. (AUDIENCE LAUGHTER).

 Q.   What is your goal, Colin; how far down do you want to
go?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I want to get about to around about 200 --
200 mark or so now. I am just under 6' 1", so around about
the 200 mark I will be happier with and fitter.  200 would be
fine.  I will be much happier around that weight.  205, something
like that.

 Q.   Do you feel more energized or has it translated into
your game at all?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I have got to be careful out on the course
because I tend not to eat enough and getting to the end of a round
is when the mental side of it takes over more than the golf. 
And I have got to be careful, I have got to eat on the course.
 But yes, I feel better because of it, sure.

 Q.   What is the specific day's workout for you, can you run
through it?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Yeah. I mean, I do sort of  20 minutes on
a bike to warm up.  When I started, that was the workout.  Now
it is just me warming up now.  So we have improved.  20 minutes
warm-up; then I go about a 40 minute run, which includes squats
and all sorts of push-ups and sit-ups on the run, and then back
in to do some weight training on my legs and backside, and then
sort of stretching out as well.  So it is a full total workout.


 Q.   How long does this last, this workout, can you tell us?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Best part of two hours.

 Q.   You said he comes every day.  You mean five days a week?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Sometimes on the weekends as well when I haven't
-- five or six days a week he has been coming.  Sometimes I have
had other things to do with the family, so come the weekends as
well.

 Q.   What do you do then on the Tour when you are not at home?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: It is obviously more difficult, but the hotels
that we tend to stay in have facilities there so you can bike
around somewhere and a rowing machine, or whatever I have been
doing down here.

 Q.   So at least you get a partial -- 

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Yeah.  I can partially do it.  It is much
easier when you are at home.

 Q.   Did you have to throw out a bunch of pairs of pants?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I did.  These are all new clothes.  I have
gone down at least a size in everything, and so it has caused
some problems with the clothes thing with the Pringle clothing,
especially, and stuff like that.  But, yeah, I am quite delighted
to do so.

 Q.   What do you think about the long-term for you from a
career standpoint?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Well, I didn't actually do it to improve my
golf.  I felt that my golf was okay. I wasn't suffering.  I just
felt that watching videos of myself, I just wasn't looking so
much like an athlete, I suppose.  And I haven't done it for my
golf, I have done it for my myself, really.  It wasn't sort of
a career move.  It was just something that I wanted to do; to
do something constructive in that three months off, and that is
what I decided to do.  But in saying that, I mean, since I only
played one tournament since then and won it, so I can't say it
has done me any harm.

 Q.   Did it not worry you?  I mean, a lot of  people either
start working out or lose a lot of weight, and it takes time for
them to adjust with the swing.  Did that worry you?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: No.  We have done it professionally.  I have
left my upper body alone so it doesn't get tight, or it doesn't
affect my swing.  But the legs, the legs are stronger than they
ever were. And we have done it professionally.  It wasn't just
a haphazard thing.  You can get into trouble if you do it on your
own and you lose weight and strength and what have you.  So there
is nothing wrong with the game at all.  It is as good as it ever
was; if not better.

 Q.   Do you feel more alert mentally?  Do you think that will
help you?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Yes.  Yes, I do. I just feel fitter myself,
and feel better about myself walking around the place.

 Q.   Is your whole family eating this way?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: No, I was the only one that was overweight
in my family.  No, no, my wife has always been quite fit, so I
have never -- no, I am the only one.

 Q.   Didn't you play team games at school?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I didn't play team games?

 Q.   Well, did you -- 

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I did.  The Courage team. I was away at school,
and golf wasn't encouraged.  So I did play team games, yes.

 Q.   I guess the last few years we have been always asking
about your American breakthrough and not winning a tournament.

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Sure.

 Q.   Is it getting frustrated?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Just when you mention it. Yeah, obviously
to get as close as I have, I only come over here in brief occasions,
so it is obviously more difficult for me.  We are not playing
full-time here to actually win.  I come over for these tournaments
and the Majors, obviously, they are the strongest fields of the
year, so I make it hard for myself, but at the same time, I am
still learning and have come close in two Majors to lose in two
playoffs within the years that I have been coming here.  I am
actually quite happy with that.  If that breakthrough comes this
year or whenever it might come, I will be ready for it.

 Q.   Have you thought about Augusta, changing a game plan
there?  Sometimes I know the golf course itself has frustrated
you.

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Yeah, a little bit.  It is not suited to my
style of game, U.S. Open and US PGA is  not my favorite Majors
if you like the British Open and the Masters is different in that
way.  I have just got to step (sic) on some putts at the Masters.
 That's what keeps you and gets you into contention is actually
the putting.  I haven't putted well there in the five times I
have been there.  Let us hope this year I can get going.  I feel
I am putting as well, if not better than I ever had so it just
a matter of getting some in, and keeping it going.

 Q.   A lot of people would like to be able to play as well
as they can; not to say as well you do without practicing.  Why
are you able to play so well on so little practice?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I think I don't -- the less practice I have,
the less chance I have of any negative thoughts coming into the
game.  I don't tend to overdo it.  I try and keep as fresh as
I possibly can.  I don't get stale.  And avoids me overhearing
people --  other peoples' problems on the range; avoids me tinkering
with other equipment:  Shafts and clubs and all sorts.  And I
have brought 14 clubs with me this tournament.  That is what I
am going to stick to, been caught out before here with the amount
of amount of the equipment and talk about the game and what have
you, you can get too involved in the whole thing and I  try and
keep away from that and keep the whole thing as simple and straightforward
as possible.  It has been to my benefit.

 Q.   Technique too?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Technique is a similar as simple as Bill Ferguson
and I can keep it that way. Very few things go wrong.  He hasn't
said much at all out there the last three days which is encouraging.
 So it is just a matter of going out there and playing the game,
and -- I am very fortunate to be able to say that that I just
go out there and play.  I am not thinking about anything in the
swing apart from where the ball is going to go.

 Q.   All the time you have worked with Bill, what is the longest
you have spent on the practice ground?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: We spent an hour once, I think. (AUDIENCE
LAUGHTER).

 Q.   Really?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Which was at Dubai, first time Dubai we went
about an hour before we went onto the course and started playing.
 And I felt good then. That was on Sunday morning.  I got to it
Saturday; I felt obviously a bit of rust in there and I had four
days practice and by Wednesday, I was sort of not doing  much
at all.  I was ready to go.  We don't spend much time.

 Q.   Have you been out with Bill?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Not that long here, no. No.  Sort of just
half an hour before we go and play.  Once I have got what I am
doing and once I have got the grip right or the stance right,
whatever we are thinking about, well, then we leave.  We don't
--

 Q.   How old were you when he first trained you, eight years
old?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I used to caddie for him when I was about
8, yeah, I used to caddie for him.  He has been teaching me since
I was about 10.  We have been together 22 years about, together.


 Q.   No videotapes?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Never. (LAUGHTER). Video.  Frightening, video
tapes, scary.  No.

 Q.   Your regime is in stark contrast to the men you admire
in golf.

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I mean, we have different methods.  There
is always different methods about anything in sport.  I am sure
you'd say the same about  some tennis players.  Some work for
10 hours a day and some that don't, and I am just fortunate to
say that I have got to the position now in golf that I am glad
about and happy about and it is not bust and I am not in any rush
to fix it, you know, and I just -- it is going okay and I am going
to keep that method of playing golf the way I do and it is going
well right now.  So I am in no rush to go out and try and change
anything.

 Q.   You did once say a couple of years ago when you were
weighing more than you are now, that you -- you'd often wondered
what it was like to play golf feeling fit.

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Well, I have played one tournament feeling
fit and I have won it. (AUDIENCE LAUGHTER). So can't say more
than that, can I?

 Q.   It is a good feeling?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Yes.

 Q.   Rest of your American schedule for the year; do you know?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I am just coming over here six times in America
this year.  I have got the other two Majors and I have got this
four week trip that is  six tournaments I am playing in the states
this year.

 Q.   Nothing before the Open U.S. Open?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: No, I am playing in Europe then, yeah, because
I have started late in Europe.  I feel like I have got to make
up ground.  I am still playing 20 tournaments in Europe and six
over here; that is about the same I did last year.

 Q.   I guess does that make it more difficult just coming
in for one week not really getting acclimated at all?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Yes, it does, I suppose, but you know, I have
got so close doing it that way before to winning one of them,
I feel I just do the same thing.  I flew into Los Angeles on a
Monday and did okay there and I flew into Oakmont on a Monday
as well and did okay there, so it is not as if I feel I have to
play there three our four weeks beforehand leading up to it. 
This particular trip here is important to start off with such
a big event as this one.  It is a great event; then it leads up
to Atlanta in through The Masters so it is a perfect run.

 Q.   You had the Heritage this year after the Masters was
won.  You are obviously here for the Heritage-- 

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I heard so much about the Heritage being such
a good tournament and good course tight course with small greens
and that possibly will favor me, and this year I decided just
to stay an extra week, really.  There is nothing not a lot happening
in Europe at that stage, and I just felt that I would stay over
and play one more.

 Q.   How is this event thought of in Europe?  I mean, obviously
it is not a major, but how close is it to being --

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: It is the next thing to it, isn't it?

 Q.   Yes.

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: As a winning point of view, I am sure the
winner on Sunday would feel he has almost won a major, you know,
it is a shame it almost doesn't carry that status, because as
the course goes and as the field goes you will find no better.
 Golf is, isn't it, after all, beating the world's best; that
proves yourself, so the world's best are here this week, and I
think it is good.

 Q.   Do you like this golf course?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I do indeed.  Yeah, I think it is a very good
golf course, very good golf course. 

 Q.   What do you like about it?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: It is just sort of a total golf package that
the U.S. Open, you have to play around there and US PGA the same,
you can't get away with any shots at all.  You got to hit golf
shots around here.  You can't -- there is no wayward driving.
 There is no huge greens.  It is just a very good overall 18 hole
golf course.

 Q.   If you could be so charming and relaxed and engaging
and sometimes we see the other side of you when you get agitated
and mad, quick tempered.  Is that side of you good, bad, have
you tried to work on that as well, just as you look at your career
up to this point and in the future how does that play up?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I think I am maturing at the same time.  There
is no self doubt anymore.  None at all.  I think I am maturing
as a person and a player, and you see less and less of that possibly.
 I still have got to have a fire and desire and ambition to win.
 That is why I am here.  So I need that at the same time.  But
possibly more inwardly than in recent years, possibly.

 Q.   Is winning the order of merit again a top priority and
is that why you are playing in Europe so much? 

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: You say playing in Europe so much.  20 tournaments
isn't excessive, I don't think, really.  Is it a priority?  If
I get into a position where I can win, I suppose it becomes a
priority after the US PGA we will look have a look at the situation
and see how we are doing.  But the priority is up and to including
the US PGA.  That is the priority this year. Having won it three
times now, the fourth time doesn't mean as much as the first time,
but it would be nice to achieve obviously.

 Q.   Would you like to beat Ooster's five in a row?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: He won four in a row, I suppose, records are
there -- I am not into records as much as that, but it would be
nice to achieve.  I have never gone down in the order of merit
in Europe in my eight years, and why start now?

 Q.   Can you just reiterate the reasons why you play Europe
as opposed to -- I guess Faldo is here now and Ernie has based
himself here.  Have you reconsidered it at all?

 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Ernie didn't really have a home, so that made
a lot of sense.  Nick is over here for, I don't know how long.
 I am actually -- I  actually thought about it five years ago
to trying to think about coming over here, got married and settled
down in London and I am with two small children now that are school
age and I am very happy with where I am, the house I am and my
wife is very happy and as long as she is happy and I am happy.
 And she is happy there, so that is where we are.  And I enjoy
Europe as well.  But I enjoy my six or seven weeks that I come
over here as well.  I have got the best of both worlds.

 WES SEELEY: Anything else for Colin Montgomerie?


 End of FastScripts.....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT