THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 27, 2014
Colin Montgomerie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How pleased with your day's work?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:   Very pleased, very pleased with my day's work.   After starting badly again, I 3‑putted the second and third, and made a mess of them.   So to come back with 4‑under from then on in was a good effort, real good effort because this wasn't easy today. 
This was a brute of a golf course with no wind, never mind with the wind.   But what I would like to say is that Bernhard Langer's performance here is one of the golfing performances of all‑time. 
And I'd like to say, Rory McIlroy and his group of friends, bring it on here.   17‑under around here and he hasn't finished yet; that is remarkable, remarkable play, and all credit to him. 

Q.   You've played five senior majors‑‑
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:   I'm playing six majors this year, it's amazing, isn't it.     Five seniors and of course I've qualified for the US PGA which is great, and I look forward to going there to Valhalla.   Different style of golf course, of course. 
Tom Watson, Bernhard, myself, all have a better opportunity of playing on these type of courses because the ball is going a tremendous distance off the tee.   The Valhalla‑type courses are up Rory's street, whereby we tend to struggle with the distance because it's much softer. 
But I'll do my best and hope to do the champions tour proud, but at the same time, I'm glad for this performance today. 
To be 4‑under from the fourth hole onwards, is Bernhard Langer‑esque, which I'm proud of. 

Q.   Satisfaction at this position? 
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:   There is satisfaction in this position here today.   The rest of us were playing for second place, and I feel that I won.   I won the battle,   144 starters here.   I beat 142 of them, just him, but that him is awfully good, I must admit.
All credit to him.   I'll stay for the prize giving here and hopefully say a few words because I want to say to everybody, that I played well here, I've played well here, and I've lost by 12.   I'm 12 behind; if he birdies the last, I'll be 13 shots behind, which is ridiculous.   All credit to him.

Q.   Hard to find the words, ridiculous, remarkable‑‑
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:   It is, it's amazing.   To be three under early on there, you thought, well, okay, if I can get to seven or eight sort of thing; I got to five, but if I get to seven or eight and he has a complete disaster, well you never know.   But then he's 3‑under par after seven himself on the hardest holes you've ever seen.   Amazing.   All credit to him.

Q.   One of the best‑ever performances I heard you saying?
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:   I did.   I said that to Tim Barter on SKY Sports, one of the best‑ever performances.   And I said to Rory McIlroy and his band of men, if they want to bring this on, good luck to them.   You never know, of course you don't, but if they got to 17‑under around here, they would be doing very, very well.

Q.   Your record in senior majors was something to shout about. 
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:   The last six weeks has been remarkable for me to win two of them and to possibly finish second here is a delight.   If you had said to me six weeks ago that was going to happen‑‑ I'd have put a hand up.   It's fantastic and I'm going back to America now to try to finish off a good year and get as close to Bernhard Langer as I can. 
But there's a big gap. 

Q.   And with eight Orders of Merit under your belt in the regular scheme of things, you have one at the senior tour level coming your way potentially. 
COLIN MONTGOMERIE:   Potentially if Bernhard doesn't enter any tournaments.   He's amazing, isn't he.   He's clinical, he's methodical, he's ambassadorial, he's diplomatic.   He's everything.   He's an asset to any tour that Bernhard Langer plays on. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT