U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 2014
Colin Montgomerie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Monty, how was your round today?   COLIN MONTGOMERIE: It was a good effort, to be honest.  It's never easy leading.  You know, I think that the effort was made from the seventh hole onwards.  I was 2-over after six and got back it back to level for the day. It was a good effort.  It was very easy to let that go today.  I did well there today. The heat was okay.  I wasn't suffering at all, so that stands in good stead for the next two days.  Still leading. Delighted with my position and delighted with the comeback from the sixth hole to birdie 7, and to birdie 17 was a good effort.   Q.  I guess there shouldn't be any questions about the heat, the fitness, because you almost made a hole-in-one on 17 and you par 18.  COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Yeah, I mean, there is no -- I should have birdied 16, as well.  No, there is no worries at all.  I'm delighted it was only 90-odd today.  We'll see about tomorrow. But delighted with getting back into things.  And just staying a couple ahead of our German friend is always good.  You know who I'm talking about (smiling).   Q.  Does it feel like a U.S. Open?  COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Very much so.  The nerves are there, the course setup is as good as you could play a proper U.S. Open on this course, never mind the Senior Open.  It's a fantastic setup, run superbly well.  Yeah, it feels like a major, it really does. You know, for people that say that these aren't real major championships, well, you come and compete then.  You come and try it, you know?  You come and try this.  It's bloody difficult, I tell you. I'm just delighted to be in this position on Friday evening.   Q.  Yesterday you did the math and you got to 14-under.  I think you were joking, saying you'd love to be there.  COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Well, of course you'd win if you were there.   Q.  But what are you thinking now a number would be?  COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Well, I'm not.  I just stay ahead of the field and do as well as I can.  If I can play anything under par tomorrow, I'll be there and thereabouts for Sunday, and that's what you want to do.  You put yourself in the position Saturday evening.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT