U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 10, 2014
Colin Montgomerie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  COLIN MONTGOMERIE: At the same time it's great.  It's only a day.  It's going to be very difficult over the next three days.  It's going to be very warm.  So, thank God, I'm finally tuned, you know.  It's very fortunate for me. It's going to be hot, it's going to be demanding for concentration levels more than anything, you know, over the next three days.  This was the coolest day we're going to have and I'm glad I've got that 6-under under my belt because it's going to be difficult the next few days, there's no question.   Q.  I was wondering if you do anything in terms of hydration or anything different now because this is a four day event compared to three.  You know, as you stated, the conditions will get hot.  COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Just having turned 51, I'm still used to four, four day events than I am three.  Three is more of a marathon.  Four is more -- sorry, three is more of a marathon, four is more of a sprint, or vice versa.  You know what I'm trying to say.  I'm warm.  Just wait till Sunday. But, at the same time, yes, it's hydration and concentration.  That's what it is.  If you don't hydrate, you are going to lose concentration out there and so being hydrated is very important starting with breakfast in the morning. If you're thirty or got a headache you're too late.  We're fortunate this morning, it was cool, it was windy.  We'll take that around here other than the intense heat we're about to have over the next three days.  I just look forward to trying to battle through and I'm playing well enough so I look forward to the challenge of it.   Q.  Did the course change at all for you from when you teed off till when the sun came out?  COLIN MONTGOMERIE: It's amazing how it has dried out.  We had a real storm this morning and it's amazing how dry it is already.  The afternoon starters will be playing a softer golf course because it's running on the fairways more but that doesn't actually mean it's going to be easier. You can start running into difficulties.  But, the course is set-up fantastically fair.  I think they've done a good job the USGA by getting it just right.  The tees on certain holes that had to be, were moved forward and they did a good job today.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT