THE RYDER CUP
October 4, 2010
Colin Montgomerie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Talk about what it means to lead your team to victory?
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I'm so proud, very proud moment for us all here in Europe. We all played to a man magnificently, we all gave a 110 per cent, and that's all I could ask. Obviously one game came down to a lot of, and they will want to talk about it, but every player, playing how well they did they played magnificent, all 12. I knew I had a great 12, I knew I did. 
 I just had to rely on certain people at certain times, and all credit to Eddie Molinari, to be up 3-up in the first place was fantastic, and the way Rickie Fowler finished, and Graeme McDowell was put there for a good reason, he's full of confidence and that showed. That birdie on 16 was just quite unbelievable, quite unbelievable. 

 Q. Describe your emotions as the afternoon unfolded because they came at you very hard. 
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Well, 9 1/2 - 6 1/2 we got off to a flyer, at one stage it was eight blue names on the board but we weren't 2-up, 3-up, they were 1-up and that was dangerous position to be in. They came back extremely well. Tiger showed why he was No. 1 in the world today and Phil Mickelson played brilliantly. All credit to the American Team, you played magnificently today. The three-point deficit was the reason why we won. 

 Q. And your vice captains? 
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I had five in the end. I simply would not have won out them. That's as simple as that. That putts that into context.

 Q. What does this mean for the players, the Tour, everyone involved in the European game? 
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: It means the world to us, and I'm sure you'll talk to George O'Grady shortly but it means the world to European golf. As I said in the press room many, many times, it means nothing to me. I just did this for European Tour and I'm so, so glad that we won.

 Q. Where does it rank in your list of achievements captaining this side? 
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: I didn't hit a shot so it wasn't much of an achievement but at the same time it's a proud, proud moment for me personally. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT