THE RYDER CUP
October 2, 2010
Colin Montgomerie
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Your thoughts on getting the first point on the board?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: It's important to get the first point on the board. I think that's why Colin sent us out as his lead to get momentum going and we have done that this morning.  
  
  Q. How difficult was the start after the delays last night?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: It was very difficult. It was very stop/start. We had a lot of momentum going it on early on, and the Americans picked up and got some momentum going. So it was important to stop that and try and finish our match up as soon as possible.   
 It's going to be a long day and it's nice to have these little breaks in between.  
  
  Q. You played awesome in practise; must be nice to carry on into the real thing.   
 LEE WESTWOOD: It was great. A little apprehensive, didn't know what to expect not having played competitively since The Open Championship. I played at the Bridgestone only a couple of rounds and I was struggling there. I came into it a little bit sort of unsure, but played well in the practise rounds and got straight into it.   
 I get on really well with Martin and he's a fantastic player and he's got a lot of bottle, you can see why he's won a major championship already. When he was needed in the middle of the round today he holed some good putts and some good birdies.   
 Hopefully the couple of lads behind can turn their matches around and get out of this level, that would be a good result and America are leading three and only 1-up in a couple of them. A lot can happen, it's going to be a long day and a lot of points to play for today and hopefully we can come out in front.   
  
  Q. Unusual day, big day?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, unusual. Nobody knows what to expects, a lot of foursomes games and a bizarre situation with foursomes and fourballs. It's interesting for the captains as well as the teams, trying to formulate partnerships.   
  
  Q. Leg holding up all right?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I'm going to go and have a little bit of treatment. I'm not feeling it at all, but you know, it's just nice to have these little breaks.   
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Rory's game and McDowell's game was most important, 2 1/21 1/2 is okay, it's a fraction, it's a fraction. If we get a good start here and we win the first couple of games here, we get the lead now and we get this crowd going, this crowd are ready to go now and it's up to us to do it, right. Fantastic to have Olazábal on call here now, fantastic to have him.   
  
  Q. Going to be a big afternoon?  
 COLIN MONTGOMERIE: Yeah, yeah, very big afternoon, yeah.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT