MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 29, 2009
Trevor Anderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. Trevor, everyone knows how you like to talk and talk some smack. Being from the D, have you talked to any guys on the other team and maybe fired them up a little bit?
 TREVOR ANDERSON: Not really. I mean, it's pretty much you have to really be set for this game because it's the most important game in the season. Thank God it's coming off a time we're coming off three losses. We'll have no problem getting motivated for this game. 
 This game can actually start the roll into a big season, what we still look to having. I'll probably be motivated, but I have not talked to anybody on our team about how important this game is. But if you're from Detroit, you know.

 Q. Whenever you're reminded of Michigan's dominance in this series, the fact that you haven't won back to back against them in 42 years, the losing streaks, going back in the series, all that, what kind of emotions does that strike up for you, just given how dominant they've been and how long it's been since there's been consistent winning on this end? 
 TREVOR ANDERSON: Well, they have been dominating this series for years. But actually last year we got a chance to -- one of the people, honorary captain was serving, and he said he never lost to Michigan. I look forward to saying I've never lost to Michigan, either.

 Q. Growing up did you have a side on this rivalry?
 TREVOR ANDERSON: I never liked Michigan at all, never. I never liked Michigan at all, period.

 Q. Why? And then also, do you think -- you just said you guys have no problem getting motivated for this game. Do you think you would have had a problem if you were playing someone else this week considering the three straight losses?
 TREVOR ANDERSON: After three straight losses we shouldn't have a problem getting motivated for any game. This game right here is going to salvage -- turn our season around. But as far as like why I don't like them, there's many reasons. I just can't really say right now. So I won't comment on that.

 Q. You said you grew up hating Michigan, but how much does that step up once you get out there on the field and you actually play in the game?
 TREVOR ANDERSON: Well, my first time playing in the game last year, Coach D, he told us that if you haven't played Michigan within 30 seconds you'll realize why we don't like them. And after about 15 seconds I realized why I didn't like them, just the total lack of respect that they have for our school in general, not just the program, but just in general the lack of respect for us. 
 As an athlete you go out there -- we're always taught as Spartans to respect our opponent. And just the lack of respect they have, period, is just sickening.

 Q. I wanted to ask why, but because you grew up in Detroit, that pretty much is very pro-Michigan, so how did you become different, because it seems like everybody kind of follows that?
 TREVOR ANDERSON: Actually it was my uncle. He's always been a Spartan fan. So me wanting to be like him so much, I was like, I hate Michigan too, and everything like that. And actually going to my high school, my high school coach, he went to Michigan. Two of my teammates committed to Michigan and played for Michigan. 
 It's just kind of a chip on my shoulder because the way they really feel about -- like I said, about the school in general. They just think we're beneath them. And I never really liked that. I always like the underdog anyway.

 Q. You told me in the fall when camp started that the 5:00 a.m. workouts, the fifth quarters, are all for this game. Do you remind those younger guys, this is why we get up at 5:00 a.m. in the winter, this game?
 TREVOR ANDERSON: If they weren't reminded on Sunday why we had to practice on Sunday, they're probably going to do a couple things different in practice for this game, because this is a special game. It's a lot of people. 
 On Sunday Coach made a comment about that's the reason why he doesn't go out and recruit so refly from states like California, Utah and recruit J.C.s so much because they wouldn't understand unless you lived in the Midwest or knew about this rivalry, you wouldn't understand how important it is. So I really believe that, yeah, that's the reason why.

 Q. Everybody seemed to find a way to find out what's wrong where the secondary, from us, the junket fans, posted on the internet, everybody. When you're out there on the field with them, do you ever wonder that yourself, and can you put your finger on it and can you do maybe some confidence building this week to maybe help them out, or how do you see that playing out?
 TREVOR ANDERSON: First things first, I never question any calls that a coach makes or anything like that. As a player you have to go out there and do what you're told to do. 
 Second, I have confidence in the people behind me that they're going to knock down the balls when they're up in the air they're going to pick them off. And if they're not, they're not going to let them score. Couple things, pass interference calls, they haven't really gone our way this year, as opposed to last year we had a couple one point game, as with Wisconsin, a lot of things went our way. 
 Hopefully as we get to the start of this game things will go our way. We will get those calls. I have a lot of faith in our DBs that they are going to step it up. We have talent back there that's undeniable, even if it's up front, we're to blame up there. We're supposed to be able to put pressure on the quarterback and not let them sit back and be covering for like eight seconds. 
 But we've progressed, we've tried to step that up, and we'll continue to do those little things. But as far as our DBs I'm not going to question what's going on back there. They're going to play the coverage that's called, they're going to tackle when it's time to make a tackle, if the ball goes up in the air, which hopefully this week it won't, they're going to knock it down and pick it off. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT