KITCHENAID SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2019
Scott Parel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You make back-to-back doubles, but to be still in this position, you've got to feel kind of good about that, right?  
SCOTT PAREL: Yeah, I'd feel really good if I would've made that putt for par on the last hole.  Yeah, that comeback from making two 6s, you know, I know it's playing hard, so it wasn't, you know -- I didn't think I'd go around here without a 6 all week.  So unfortunately I made two of them.  But I'm in a good spot so...   
 Q.  What happened on -- I saw 17.  What happened on 18?  
SCOTT PAREL: Oh, you know, both -- 18 I hit it in the rough and then hit it up in front of the green on the upslope, and the ball was actually sitting up too good, and I kind of went under it and didn't get it on the green, and then, you know, had like 10, 12 feet for bogey.  I missed it, so...   
 Q.  So, I mean, again, we talked to Paul earlier, and he said you guys caught a break with the weather.  
SCOTT PAREL: Oh.   
 Q.  You really caught the right part of the draw?  
SCOTT PAREL: Yeah, a hundred percent.  I mean, anybody that is, you know, in the top 20 from that other way has played some unbelievable golf.  I mean, I know we -- I was telling my caddie, you know, I can't remember on this Tour there ever being this big of a discrepancy.  Because we don't play that many tournaments where we have a morning and an afternoon.  We're always in the same.  So, yeah, I was definitely on the good end of that.   
 Q.  You hit the ball pretty well today outside of a couple mistakes?  You feel (indiscernible) --  
SCOTT PAREL: Not as --   
 Q.  Wasn't as good as yesterday --  
SCOTT PAREL: Not as good as yesterday, but I had a chance.  I made no -- I made one putt today over three feet probably.  So, I mean, I made no -- made nothing.  And I had some decent chances.  So got to get the ball in the fairway a little more.  I didn't do quite as good a job of that today.   
 Q.  What's your mindset going to the 1st -- 10th tee this morning, I guess?  
SCOTT PAREL: Was my mindset?  Try to get the ball on the fairway.  I mean, I wasn't nervous.  It was only one day.  I know there's four days.  So I knew I didn't win the golf tournament yesterday, but fortunately for me I didn't lose it today.  So not really -- you know, it's a four-day deal, so...   
 Q.  Where tomorrow -- I'm not sure who you're playing with yet, but if the second pair, pretty high profile.  How does that compare to other tournaments where you've played with some big names?  
SCOTT PAREL: Yeah, I mean, I've played in quite a few big -- with a lot of big names in my three years, four years out here.  So played in the last group in a major before with some good names.  So it doesn't really make any difference.  We're all competing against the golf course really this week more than anything.  It's not -- you can't really pay too much attention to what anybody else is doing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT