KITCHENAID SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2019
Scott Parel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Birdie, birdie to finish your round.  Especially with the wind picking up, just how proud are you of how you finished the first round today?
SCOTT PAREL: Oh, yeah, I mean, if you make two 3s on those, you'll take two 4s there every day.  So, yeah, I got fortunate and got a good lie in the rough on 17 and then hit two really good shots on 18.
Q. The weather delay, how did that impact your mentality coming out, it was an hour and a half, two hours?
SCOTT PAREL: Not really.  We've done this every week, so we're all used to its by now.  It's the same mentality out here.  You hit the ball in the fairway and try to make pars.  I was just fortunate to hit a couple of shots close enough to have some good looks for burden.
Q. Jay won this event 7-over par.  You are 4-under.  I mean, just what worked for you today, especially on a course that we're already seeing a lot of pretty high scores?
SCOTT PAREL: Like I said, number one, hitting the ball, hit the ball on the fairway.  I hit my driver pretty good.  A few loose once here and there.  Even though they -- I think because of the winds that were coming in, they maybe were -- I don't want to say they were easy, but they might have been a little kind to us with some of the pins because they knew some high wind was coming.
So if you're in the fairway, you had some decent chances to maybe get the ball close.  I had some really good looks the first two holes and didn't make them.  So I was proud of how I stayed patient.  I really felt like I should have been 4-under after three holes with where I hit the ball the first three holes.  So I'll take anything under par out here, that's for sure.
Q. How have you been playing coming into this?
SCOTT PAREL: I've been playing well.  I had a second place in Houston a couple weeks ago.  Played okay in Birmingham, not so good on the last day.  But I've been hitting the ball real well, and I think that's obviously a key for out here, is you got to -- like I said, you got to be in the fairway.  If you're playing out of the rough, you're scrambling for par most of the time.
Q. So other players this week when we've asked them (indiscernible) the course it is compared to the courses that you're used to playing on the Champions Tour.  What sort of challenges are presented?  How much do you think players enjoy a challenge of a golf course?
SCOTT PAREL: I enjoy it.  I can't speak for anyone else.  But, yeah, it's unusual for our Tour to think that par is a good score.  Normally on our Tour you're trying to shoot 5- or 6-under every day and hope that somebody doesn't shoot 9- or 10-under.  So it is a different mentality.
But these guys have played a lot of majors.  They know how to play golf courses like this.  It is a little different maybe strategy or mentally to think about maybe not this early trying to get the ball right pin high every time out here.  I think you're better off being 20 feet below the hole than you are 10 feet a little past the hole.
And that's definitely different from this Tour.  Normally we're trying to fly the ball right to the hole, get it pin high right next to it.  We've all played enough golf to know.
Q. (Indiscernible)?
SCOTT PAREL: I have never played Oak Hill, no.
Q. (Indiscernible)?
SCOTT PAREL: Well, the challenges were to try to -- like I said, try to maybe judge the wind.  It seems like there were maybe a lot of crosswinds, so off the tees trying to figure out maybe it's a little different line you had to take than what you had written in your book to make sure you get in the fairway.  And then like I said, trying to do the best you can in keeping your ball below the hole.
Q. Could you describe two birdies (indiscernible)?
SCOTT PAREL: Well, 17 and 18 are playing mostly down, a little off the left.  So I didn't -- I hit a 56-degree wedge into 18, which I never a million years imagine that I would have.  So they had moved the tee up there and I was able to -- I hit a good drive and take a little different line.  So normally not going to have that kind of a club.  And like I said, I drew a good lie on 17, and fortunately the pin was in the back.
So coming out of the rough, I knew I could chase it back there.  There's a lot of luck involved in that.  You have to get lucky, and the ball has to come out like you think it's going to come out.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT