CONSTELLATION SENIOR PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
July 13, 2018
Scott Parel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great round today; what was working for you?  Seemed like the putter was pretty hot.  
SCOTT PAREL: I putted well today.  I actually -- I didn't hit the ball nearly as well today as I did yesterday.  My driver was a little bit off target for me, but I got some lucky breaks.  That's what it takes.   
 Q.  Was the driver off target, do you feel, due to the narrow fairways here at all?  
SCOTT PAREL: No, actually I got a little bit of tightness in my back that I need to go get worked on that I had all day today and never really quite felt comfortable, as comfortable as I did yesterday anyway.  But it really only bothered me with the driver.  All the other clubs it was fine for some reason.  Just the driver seemed to catch a little bit on the downswing, so hopefully I can get that worked on.   
 Q.  It was a little warmer today, too, the conditions out there?  
SCOTT PAREL: Yeah, it was a little warmer, but we were lucky.  Being second off, for the first probably five or six holes it was comfortable.  Yeah, by the time we got to walking up that hill on 8, it started to get a little toasty.   
 Q.  Seeing yourself at the top of the leaderboard right now, how does that feel?  
SCOTT PAREL: Well, we've got two days left, and I'd be surprised if it's leading when everybody is done today anyway.  You know, I think if the conditions stay the same, you're going to have to shoot the same kind of scores that I've shot the last two days to have a chance to win.  The course is in perfect shape.  The greens are perfect, makeable speed and smooth.  So guys are going to make a lot of birdies out here.   
 Q.  Do you feel the depth of the field here?  There's 49 of the top 50 Charles Schwab Cup leaders out.  
SCOTT PAREL: For sure.  Everybody playing here has got a chance to win.  There's nobody playing here that's just kind of biding their time.  Everybody that started this week thought they had a chance to win, and there's surely 40 or 50 guys that probably right now still think they can win.   
 Q.  You didn't golf in college, right?  
SCOTT PAREL: That's correct.   
 Q.  You worked in computers for 10 years?  
SCOTT PAREL: I did.   
 Q.  Before you got on the TOUR?  
SCOTT PAREL: Before I started playing professional golf.  I never was on the PGA TOUR.  Yeah, I didn't turn pro until I was 31, so yeah.   
 Q.  How has your season been going so far?  
SCOTT PAREL: Yeah, it's been good.  I've played pretty darned consistent, and here lately, the past I don't know how many events, I've been playing good golf, right there in contention a lot of times.  And that helps.  The more you're up there, the more comfortable you are.  If you do it once every few weeks, then maybe you get a little bit uncomfortable.  But I feel good right now, as long as I can get my back kind of worked out here.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT