DIAMOND RESORTS INVITATIONAL
January 13, 2018
Scott Parel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. So you got off to a slow start, but you really picked it up on the back nine. What flipped? 
SCOTT PAREL: You know what, I don't know. It was very similar to yesterday. I just started on the back yesterday. I think the back sets up better for me‑‑ three par 5s, a somewhat drivable par 4, tee shots are more comfortable. I'm a little bit indecisive on some of the lines on the front side's tee shots maybe, not quite as comfortable on that side. 
So it was very similar to yesterday. I just didn't‑‑ probably didn't‑‑ you know, obviously didn't make as many putts and maybe didn't hit it quite as good on the front side, but very similar.

Q. How nice is it ending that way, though? 
SCOTT PAREL: Yeah, definitely very, very nice. You don't expect to make a 2 there. I expected to two‑putt 17 for birdie. So I kind of got to the number I thought I would get to, but I didn't expect to make a 2 on 18.

Q. So you three‑putted 17? 
SCOTT PAREL: Yeah, for par.

Q. So you were steaming a little bit and came back and‑‑
SCOTT PAREL: I wouldn't say I was steaming. It wasn't an easy two‑putt. I was down on the lower level, going up the hill, and then it runs away from you pretty good. I knocked it a little too hard. Knocked it probably 10, 12 feet by.

Q. What did you hit on 18? 
SCOTT PAREL: 5 iron. 

Q. Pretty clutch. 
SCOTT PAREL: Yeah, you know, it was just a good full, solid shot for me. There was no indecision whatsoever. That was the only club that I could see hitting there. So that has a lot to do with how you hit, the quality of shots you hit when you're completely committed to it. Generally, you're going to hit most of those better than when you're a little wishy‑washy.

Q. So how does‑‑ incredible is this kind of career Renaissance for you that's gone on the last couple of years? 
SCOTT PAREL: Yeah, it's hard to describe. I can't really‑‑ sometimes it doesn't even really still seem real to me. Especially now this week, it's a whole different thing playing with superstars in the other sports venues. 
Yeah, obviously, when I got in my late 40s, this is kind of what I envisioned, hoping that I would have a chance to do this, but you never really know until you get out here. It's been amazing. Honestly, it's a dream come true to be able to do this for a living.

Q. Yeah, in the sake of full disclosure, I was like I'm somewhat unfamiliar with you, and I'm a fantasy golf nut. I've had like every guy you could ever hear of on my teams over the years. So he told me how you Monday qualified, et cetera, et cetera. 
SCOTT PAREL: It's unusual. 

Q. I guess bottom line, how did it come about? 
SCOTT PAREL: I've been a professional for 21 years now. It's not like I just all of a sudden turned pro when I got 50. I struggled very early when I turned pro, but every year I felt like I got a little better and a little better. Then I was lucky enough to win on the Web.com when I was 48, and that was against all those youngsters, so at that point, I'm like, if I could just stay healthy until I'm 50, I feel like, if I can get on this Tour, that I can be somewhat successful because my game, I think, matches up pretty well on this Tour. 
It wasn't completely out‑of‑the‑blue Cinderella story. I was a decent, accomplished golfer on the Web.com Tour, but certainly I never played the PGA TOUR. I played in a few events, played in some U.S. Opens. 
Lucky for me, I've stayed healthy, and as I've gotten older, I think I've really become a better player. When you're playing on the Champions Tour, PGA TOUR Champions, that's what you've got to do. If you can keep getting better when you're in you're 50s, you're going to have some success out here.

Q. That's unbelievable. How old are you? 
SCOTT PAREL: I'm 52.

Q. I mean, we're contemporaries. I think that's awesome. That's a great story. 
SCOTT PAREL: I never played‑‑ I didn't play golf in college. The guys always ask me, like Mardy asked me today where I went to school and who I played college golf with, and I said, well, I didn't play college golf. You've got to be kidding me. How did you not play college golf? I just had a different path. 
I wanted to get a degree in computer science. I worked in the software industry for ten years and was just fortunate enough to have my game kind of pick up and a wife that was encouraging for me to try it, and here I am. It's pretty unbelievable.

Q. Where did you go to school? 
SCOTT PAREL: University of Georgia.

Q. Oh, you did? 
SCOTT PAREL: Yeah.

Q. Heartbreaking week, but you might make up for it tomorrow. 
SCOTT PAREL: I don't know that anything can make up for that. I'm pretty in love with my Bulldogs. My son and I were there. It was gut‑wrenching. It really was. But things, I think, are going in the right direction. Hopefully, we'll get one someday before I die, I hope. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT