NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v BULLS
May 17, 2011
Taj Gibson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		   TAJ GIBSON: (Indiscernible) we just come out and do our job. 

 Q. How has that changed the mentality (Indiscernible)?
 TAJ GIBSON: It's not really hard. Not make a mistake, make an easy pass to help our team. (Indiscernible) it shows you -- we all hang out. All around the league guys usually say they hang around with each other. They usually don't. We just want to win. We have winners on our team. 

 Q. How do you like the nickname? 
 TAJ GIBSON: What nickname?

 Q. Bench Mob.
  TAJ GIBSON: C.J. made that up. It's been great. We stick together. No matter what happens, we always stick together through thick and thin. 

 Q. How many people texted you about the dunk the other night? 
 TAJ GIBSON: Too many. I turned my phone off. I just wanted to move on. That's one thing about this league. You can (Indiscernible) knock back on your heels. I wanted to forget about it. 

 Q. Were you surprised by all that attention? 
 TAJ GIBSON: No. This is playoff basketball. That's what the playoffs are about. Every single minute you have to bring it. 

 Q. What has the support been like from the starters towards you guys? They are standing up at the end when you guys are in. They are not just sitting down. 
 TAJ GIBSON: It's been great. (Indiscernible) We do the same thing when they're out there. It's great for team camaraderie. It's only going to get better. (Indiscernible) We'll walk through the fire together. 

 Q. They are all big games in the best of seven series. Can you talk about the importance of being able to win tomorrow and put them down 2-0? 
 TAJ GIBSON: We understand it's going to be a dogfight. We understand it's going to come down to (Indiscernible) we're just focused right now. We're going to go into battle. 

 Q. Are you anticipating a desperate Miami team tomorrow? Much more intensity? 
 TAJ GIBSON: We've seen it all year long. We know they're going to come out with a lot of fire. It's the playoffs. It's going to be a dogfight. 

 Q. (Indiscernible)
 TAJ GIBSON: Good. I'm going to keep going out there and making aggressive plays. I'm not going to shy away from it. I like to play with intensity. It's playoff basketball. It's not going to stop the way I play. 

 Q. How do you feel about Oprah holding up the schedule? 
 TAJ GIBSON: It's her last show. We just have to deal with it. Oprah is a legend. She's going to do her show, and we're going to play again tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT