U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 31, 2008
Morris Hatalsky
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 FULLAUDIOINTERVIEW

  
Q. 3-under, birdies on 8 and 9. Can you give us the  
details of that? 
 MORRIS HATALSKY: Yeah, No. 8 was a back-center pin, and it has a ridge running diagonally into the green, and it's a tough little shot. You have to really go at it. You really don't want to go right of the pin. I went and pulled it a couple yards left of the pin and it didn't stay up and it went down into the little hollow there that runs along the edge of the left side of the green, and I had about, I guess it was about a 35-, 40-footer that I made. It had about four feet of break.
  
So that was nice. I was looking for a 2-putt but I hit a good  
putt and made that. 
 9  
is probably one of the most difficult fairways to hit because of the  
left-to-right tilt. I hit a pretty good drive but I still put it  
in the right rough. So I had to lay up and laid up and pitched  
it up there about six feet past and made that for birdie. So it  
was a very nice way to finish the round.
 
  
Q. 3-under, leader in the clubhouse, give a quick assessment of  
how you played and if that's going to stand up, do you think, for this  
afternoon. 
 MORRIS HATALSKY: I really don't know whether it will stand up or not. I'm just pleased about the way I played, mostly the way I putted. I putted very good today. It was better than good; it was very good. I made some long putts. A couple times I put myself in situations where, very difficult up-and-downs and recovered with good come-back putts.
  
Started on the back side, I think it was on 12, or it might have been  
11, dogleg-left up the hill there, and I hit it long, right. So  
I had it down the hill and the pin was tucked. I hit a good  
chip, but I couldn't hold it on to the tier there. Anyway,  
knocked it past about 25 feet and I made it coming back for par.
  
No. 7, I made about a 15 footer for par there. So I made some  
very good recovery putts. 
 I  
did hit some good irons out there, and I drove it reasonably  
well. And like any U.S. Open, Senior U.S. Open venue, one of the  
big keys is putting it in the fairway. 
 
  
Q. Could you over go over your other birdies and bogeys? 
 MORRIS HATALSKY: First birdie was 15. I hit a nice iron shot in there. I hit an 8-iron in there about 12 feet and made that for birdie.
  
Made a bogey on 17. 17, I've yet to hit the fairway or the  
green, practice round or today. I just haven't figured that one  
out yet. So I'm hoping things will turn around on 17. 
  
Then I hit a wedge into 1 about seven feet, made that for birdie. 
  
And No. 3, the par 5, actually I hit an errant drive and got a good  
break there. I hit a tree and kicked back. I laid up and I  
hit a very so-so wedge shot in there about 25 feet right of the pin  
and made that. 
  
As you can tell, I made some long putts today. 
 
  
Q. Do you subscribe to the theory of the difference in the golf  
course between the morning and the afternoon? 
 MORRIS HATALSKY: I would think so. I notice that the greens were releasing more as the day went on, and so you're having to make more of an allowance in terms of the undulation shots going into greens.
  
The putts, the greens were picking up a little more speed. The  
morning round, I mean, it was benign from the standpoint of the  
wind. The greens were receptive to good, solid shots. 
  
These greens here are absolutely championship greens. There's a  
lot of movement. You've got to put the ball in the right spot in  
order to feel confident about knocking putts in. Because of the  
terrain that we have around here, everything running away from the  
mountains here, any time you get that ball between the pin and the  
mountain there, you are probably going to have a very extremely fast  
putt. 
 I  
had some putts where I barely took the putter back for short  
downhillers. So in any which case, I think these greens, they  
require some good imagination and some deft touch.
 
  
Q. What's your assessment on how pace of play might come into  
account when you have heat and altitude and four rounds? Do you  
feel you have any advantage?
 MORRIS HATALSKY: No, I don't feel I have any advantage from that standpoint. I feel the majority of the players are in it good enough shape to play four rounds around here. It's a non-issue. 


 End of FastScripts 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT