MLB WORLD SERIES: YANKEES v BRAVES
October 23, 1999
Paul O'Neill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Can you talk about the at-bat: Rocker jumps ahead of you with the strike, but you
stay patient, then Cone said you might have swung at ball 4. Can you go back
pitch-by-pitch and tell us about the at-bat.

PAUL O'NEILL: We didn't have too many opportunities obviously. I feel like the big run
to score is the one that ties it. Jeter came through and got a big run there. With bases
loaded, the pitcher gets behind, obviously, you know, you're in a good position to hit.
But, you know, left-handers aren't going to make their living off of Rocker, no doubt
about it. He throws too hard, throws too well. We got a break. I put the ball in play and
found a hole. That's the way I look at it. It was a game of pitching. We got a couple
breaks. You know, when you score with those breaks as well as we pitched tonight, you're
going to win. The bunt play was, you know, misplayed and Strawberry comes in with a walk.
That doesn't seem like a big walk. That's a huge play, Maddux didn't walk anybody. He took
some pitches, got another runner on. Once you get a few guys on, you know something can
happen. It did tonight. As soon as you get Mariano in there, it's usually good news.

Q. What made Greg Maddux so tough tonight?

PAUL O'NEILL: Well he's always tough. Obviously his control is the one thing. For some
reason, he gets you guessing with him. And as a hitter, you don't want to do that. You
want to look for the ball but you start leaning in or looking away, he had a really good
change-up he threw to me tonight. That's what gave me the most problems. But I talked to a
lot of players. After four or five days off, it's, you know, you're kind of rusty. You're
jumpy, jittery because it's the first game of the World Series, obviously. He's going to
use that against us, too. He's that good a pitcher. I've never enjoyed facing him. He's
good. To be patient and get a good pitch, you can't really slow the game down on him.
Everything happens so fast, he just keeps pitching ahead, ahead, ahead. Even if you step
out, the next pitch is a strike and you're right back where he wants you. He's a tough guy
to face, no doubt about it.

Q. You've talked about how the regular season is obviously not important -- you said
the regular season is out once the post-season starts. As you're batting against Rocker,
are you able to cancel out all your --

PAUL O'NEILL: Believe me, in that situation and during the game, no at-bat during the
season enters your mind, you do what you can to put the ball in play. The breaks are part
of the game. If the ball finds a hole like it did tonight, we win. If they turn two, we
still might be playing, it might be tied. So, you know, we're not -- this isn't an unusual
game for us. We're used to playing close games. We're used to being in one-run games. When
you win enough of them, then you feel like you're going to win it again somehow. Again,
once we tied it up, somehow we're going to go ahead and win another one. That's the way
our team feels. This isn't an unusual game for us, to be in a close game.

Q. You've won nine World Series games in a row. Is the key to this team that you guys
just don't beat yourselves?

PAUL O'NEILL: Well, I mean that's the key to any team to win. No doubt about it. You
can't get extra outs. The way our pitching has been, obviously all through the playoffs,
if we score a couple runs here or there or get a break or somebody gives us a couple runs,
we're going to win the game. Playing behind our pitching and knowing that, I mean it's
great to know. I mean you can't wait to -- on a night like this, for example, it's cold
out there. I mean we didn't stand out there more than five or ten minutes, every inning
we're back in there trying to get some runs. Those things make a difference. You can't say
enough about what El Duque did tonight. He pitched great again. He gives up a home run, a
lot of pitchers can end up giving a hit after that or a walk, he settled down, got the
next two guys out and we were back at them again. So this was a game of pitching tonight,
and our pitching, I guess, was just a little bit better.

Q. Can you talk about the rib injury? Is it still bothering you?

PAUL O'NEILL: No, I feel pretty good. I really do. I've had some time, like in the
Texas series, where I felt it. But for the most part, it's feeling better day by day. And
right now, I don't think it's changing anything I do on the field. So I'm kind of sick and
tired of talking about it, to tell you the truth.

Q. Your national reputation, people who saw this tonight, you're notoriously hard on
yourself. You pulled a 97-mile-per-hour fastball, you say I put the bat on the ball. Do
you take satisfaction from tonight?

PAUL O'NEILL: I'm as happy as anybody, believe me. I'm as happy as anybody out there.
Your job as a hitter there is to put the ball in play. I did the job. But they don't
always find holes like that. I mean obviously you'd like to drive a ball out in the gap,
but at 3-1 you don't want to give away a swing and swing and foul it off or something.
'cause he's that good and can strike you out. You put the ball in play and hope good
things can happen and it did tonight.

Q. When you grounded out against Maddux, it seemed like you shoved him off. What
happened?

PAUL O'NEILL: No, he went to tag me. I'm not trying to run him over or anything. He
made a good pitch and got me out. There's nothing to that. I don't really remember, but I
don't remember, you know, trying to shove him or anything.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT