AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: RED SOX v YANKEES
October 14, 1999
Paul O'Neill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How do you feel, Paul?
 
 PAUL O'NEILL: I mean, two great games. I am tired. Everybody is. We are exhausted.
One-run games, they are pretty gut wrenching, but I feel great. It was a great game. Both
games could have gone either way. We got some breaks tonight. They hit the top of the wall
a couple of times. We ended up getting a bloop hit. Pitching has been the name of the
series so far both for us and them. Obviously when you are up two games to nothing you
feel good about the team. 
 
Q. Have you ever seen balls hit that close to home runs and not go out twice in a game
like that?
 
 PAUL O'NEILL: Sure, a lot of people don't realize Yankee Stadium is always known for
home runs -- if you don't pull the ball down the lines, Yankee Stadium is one of the
bigger parks in baseball. It is cold, the ball is not carrying real well. Those guys get
on base, then you have to credit your pitching because they don't score. That is the big
story. You get guys on, bases loaded, guys on third with one out, they don't score, I mean
that is our pitching. That -- as a player playing behind that, I mean, you can't -- it is
huge. 
 
Q. Talking about the weather factor tonight, the change from yesterday to today. How
did it affect the game?
 
 PAUL O'NEILL: I don't know if it affected the game. I thought it was a pretty
well-played game. Obviously it is cold and windy, but I don't know what effect it had on
the game. Going into the game you wonder maybe what effect it will have on Cone because he
usually pitches the ball better when it is warm, he feels the ball better. What can you
say. He threw a big game for us in a big situation. 
 
Q. Did this game kind of remind you of what a great competitor David Cone is?
 
 PAUL O'NEILL: I don't think you need to be reminded. Cone has thrown big game after big
game for us, but coming into the game, he hasn't thrown in -- I don't know, ten days, two
weeks. A lot of people don't understand how hard that is to do, then go out in this type
of atmosphere in a playoff situation and throw the way he did and get out of some jams and
give us an opportunity to score a run here or there. Believe me, we would love to go out
and score, 4, 5 runs early and just watch him mow them down. You got to credit their
pitching. They are pitching well too. We did get some breaks tonight, but that is part of
the game sometimes. But our pitching was the name of the game today. 
 
Q. Talk about the big hit in the 7th. Seems like every series they bring a lefty in.
 
 PAUL O'NEILL: Obviously he is 0-2. As a hitter, you are just trying to put the ball in
play. He is not making mistakes. He is on the corners on both sides of the plate. I
watched him pitch Tino from when I was on second base with bases loaded. He is making good
pitches. To put the ball in play and have it fall in that situation, sure, it looks great
in the paper, but I am as happy as anybody, believe me. But that was pretty much a big
break for us. 
 
Q. Does facing Cormier in the regular season help you in the postseason?
 
 PAUL O'NEILL: Obviously the more you face a pitcher, the more you can track his release
point or whatever. But I mean you can throw everything out from the season in my book, in
my mind. When you get out in the Playoffs you just try to focus in on hitting the ball
hard and hope good things happen. The postseason and regular season are so different that
it is hard to bring all the computer statistics in here or there, you know. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT