CHRYSLER CLASSIC OF GREENSBORO
October 5, 2006
Brent Geiberger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOE CHEMYCZ:  We welcome Brent Geiberger in, 2004 champion.  Brent, nice playing today, started a little slow and then caught fire and finished with an 8 under par 64.

Maybe just a couple of quick comments about your round and then we'll open it up for questions.
BRENT GEIBERGER:  Yeah.  That was a nice way to start off the tournament for sure.  Played solid today.  I think I missed a little birdie putt on the third hole from four feet and I got a little pissed off and made sure I made some the rest of the way and so it was nice to be able to put in a round like that today.

Perfect weather and, you know, sometimes you won't notice a 3 under or something like that out there today but you have to shoot pretty low to keep up with everybody else.

Want me to go through the holes?
JOE CHEMYCZ:  We'll get to that.  Questions?

Q    It's a lot like in '04 when you came in here scrambling to keep the card and everything.  Did you think about that at all?  I know you talked earlier in the week about that.
BRENT GEIBERGER:  Little bit.  I haven't really been thinking about it.  I feel pretty comfortable out there playing.  It's very similar where I was in '04, but, you know, I feel    I'd love    the equipment and stuff I have and the way I'm playing right now, I would love to start out the year right now because it would be a completely different story.

I've been searching to try to find the right combo with a lot of clubs and feel like I've got something in my bag right now that give me a chance to win or contend each week.

I just haven't    I made a string of cuts now.  I just haven't made any putts and just hadn't gotten it going.

It was nice to be able to put up a round like that today.

Q    You talk about your equipment, how much you've gone through this year?
BRENT GEIBERGER:  Well, it's just going through certain shafts.  I'm using the same driver, the head but just going through shafts trying to find the right combo and I had one I used for a couple years but I kept trying and switching out with another head and trying different shafts and just wasn't seemed to be working much this year.

I'd have one day I would hit it pretty good with it but then another day I would hit a couple loose shots and just cost me.

And so going through the process, sometimes it takes, you know, a few months for you to find something that you really feel comfortable with.

I feel decent    actually I went to the factory last week and picked up a driver    two drivers, one with the same shaft I have right now that I've been playing with the last few weeks and a different one that I have in my 3 wood.

I ended up using that driver today and I tried it yesterday in the Pro Am and I liked it on Tuesday and Wednesday and I put it in play today and it felt real good.

I mean those little things, all of a sudden you stand on the tee with a lot more confidence to be able to hit shots instead of worrying about what's left and what's right, where do you want to miss the shot if you miss it.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Questions?

Q    With the weather maybe coming in tomorrow, how key was to it get a nice round like this?
BRENT GEIBERGER:  It was nice.  Very similar to '04, actually.  I played I think in the morning and shot 6 under two years ago and I think there was a 7 under ended up leading but the wind came through here on Friday and Saturday in '04 and the course plays tough.  We see all kinds of weather all year.  You do the best you can.

Q    Can you talk a little about last year and the struggle you're having with the injuries, trying to find your game and how that is on you mentally?
BRENT GEIBERGER:  Kind of pretty much used to it.  You just kind of roll with the punches.

I was out for I think about three months last year and came back at the end of the year and tried out some different equipment, just kind of tinker because I knew I didn't have to get to a certain spot on the money list or, you know, try to keep my card.

Just kind of lingered into this year with my equipment trying to find a good combo for me and it doesn't seem to    I think I'm kind of used to a lot of things.

Some days my back is a little tight and you just    I've kind of been able to    keep a heating pad with me and I'll lay on it back in my room sometimes when I'm feeling a little stiff to try to get myself loosened up in the morning and try to stretch out properly.

I just kind of learned to deal with it that way and I kind of hit a poor tee shot on 18.  The last five holes we hit the wall with the groups.  We waited for five minutes in between each shot, I think, and my back started tightening up.

Didn't hurt but it affected my last shot.  Just hit a little low thin one.  It worked out okay.

It's just    you get used to certain things out here and you know how to deal with them.

Q    So after shooting a 64, do you practice anymore today or are you good to go?
BRENT GEIBERGER:  I'm going to go hit a few balls, not too many.  I usually don't hit    I don't sit out there for an hour or so or two and beat balls.

I'll go hit 20, 30 balls, hit some chips, handful of 8 irons and 6 irons, few 3 woods and drivers, kind of picturing maybe some holes I'll go through my round and think about what maybe I didn't like this shot or why I hit it over there and just kind of reinforce my swing and just feel    try to feel comfortable with some shots.  Hit a few putts.

Q    Can you go over your round?
BRENT GEIBERGER:  Yeah.  Want me to do it?

My first birdie was on 7.  7, yeah.  I hit a little utility club, not so good but straight on 7, and I had    I think I had about 160 yards, pin was back right and hit an 8 iron about 15 feet short left of the hole.  Had a putt that broke about a foot left to right, made that.

9, I hit a pretty good drive down the right side of the fairway.  You always try to pin it down the left side so you try to get there in two.

I had about 260 something to the front edge.  There's a little cross bunker out there about 25 yards short of the green and I just caught the lip of that.

I had about a 20 yard bunker shot and hit a great    it's probably one of the toughest shots you usually have to play out there.  I hit a great bunker shot up there about three feet and made by birdie there.

10, driver.  Had about    high 60s, mid 60s in there.  Hit a 7 iron about    no, I'm sorry.  I had 9 iron in there.  I hit    had about 139, 40    138 or 9 yards and hit a 9 iron right behind the hole about six feet.  Left pin there, pretty tough pin to about 6 feet.  Left edge putt, made that.

12, par 3, 199 yards, little downhill back left pin, tough pin especially with the greens firming up pretty good.  You land it anywhere near the hole it's releasing through the back.  Hit a 6 iron.  Hit a good shot to back left pin, landed up top there.  Released to the back fringe.  Had about 14 feet and had about a foot of fringe to get through and little right to left breaker, made that.

Par 5, hit a 3 wood off the tee there in the fairway.  Hit utility club probably about 20, 24 feet underneath the hole straight up short of the pin and rolled it up there about a couple inches, just missed it for eagle and tapped in birdie.

14, driver, good drive there and had about I think 159 yards right in there, 152 to the front edge.  The pin was right on the front left which is tough pin to get to the way the greens sloped up in front.  There's a false front.  You land short it's coming back off.  And hit an 8 iron in there about a foot.  Hit a great shot.

Par 5, 14 is where we started waiting awhile.  15, we waited on the tee for about ten minutes seemed like and hit a good drive there.

Got right in between clubs with a 3 wood and utility club and I think I had about 240 some yards, and hit a nice 3 wood up to the green, just through.  I chipped.

Tough chip, broke about 8, 10 feet left down the hill and rolled it up there about five feet left of the hole and lipped it in.  Kind of fortunate to keep it in the hole there.

And 17, good hole, playing almost 230 I think today.  Hit a 3 iron about 15 feet left of the hole and broke about a cup, cup and a half left to right, made that.  Made a nice 2 putt on the last hole, tough front left pin to get to there, 2 putted.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Couple other notes, 13 of 14 fairways, 16 of 18 greens.  Brent's career low round in this event and it's his low round of 2006.

Any other questions?  Alright.  Brent, thank you.  Play well.
BRENT GEIBERGER:  Thanks guys.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT