CANON GREATER HARTFORD OPEN
July 2, 1998
Brent Geiberger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  All right, everybody.  We have Brent Geiberger with us this morning, shot 34, 33 for 67, three under par.  Brent, if you could start off by maybe give us a general thought about your round and go over your birdies? 
 
BRENT GEIBERGER:  Ah, not, too bad.  It seemed like I hit a lot of quality shots out there, pretty good, gave myself a lot of opportunities.  Real bad thing today, I guess, was ten, my first hole.  I bogied that one.  I hit it off the right, got it right behind a tree and punched out, hit on it a two-putter for a bogie.  Other than that, let's see.  
 

Q.  What did you do on 13? 
 
BRENT GEIBERGER:  13, I hit a drive two-iron.  It rolled around the lake just on the other side of it.  So I had a little chip up there.  I chipped it up about two feet, tapped in for birdie.   
 

Q.  17? 
 
BRENT GEIBERGER:  17, 16.  Birdied 16.   
 

Q.  Excuse me -- yes, 16.  
 
BRENT GEIBERGER:  Seven iron, about 12 feet left of the hole right up the hill, perfect angle and made that.   
 

Q.  Par two birdie four?  
 
BRENT GEIBERGER:  That was a good one.  That was a bonus there; good drive and a five iron, about 18 feet, I guess, pretty good swing on it; foot and a half, two-foot break from left to right.  I got a good read off Blaine McCallister.  He putted before me.  Almost on the same line, a little off to the side.  But I got to see his line and speed.  It was a little low slower than I expected, hit a good put there.  Six, good drive and a three iron lay-up and sand wedge about 12 feet, short right of the hole, little right to left break.  That was kind of a tough one to read.  Hit a good put there.  Kind of had good couple opportunities coming in on seven, hit a driver and a seven iron about three feet right behind the hole.  I guess I misread right center.  I thought I hit a perfect putt.  It broke right on me, a little out.  And on nine I hit it about eight feet below the hit.  Left to right break.  A little too much break and left it on the left lip.   
 

Q.  Any questions for Brent?  Being in the second group, was it soft from all the rain still? 
 
BRENT GEIBERGER:  It was pretty soft out there.  Pretty lucky how much rain we've gotten.  The ball wasn't muddying up.  I played yesterday morning.  We played -- I had a little bit of mud, but today it was pretty good.  I don't remember getting any kind of a mud ball out there.  I had to think about it a little bit, nothing where it was going to affect it.  So the course is in good shape for how much rain we got, that's for sure.   
 

Q.  Guess we have to ask the obligatory gag question, where did he get you started? 
 
BRENT GEIBERGER:  I was probably about five, six years old; five years old pretty much, whacking the ball around, ball going all over the place, doing whatever I could to mess around.   
 

Q.  And you spent a lot of time out on the tour with them? 
 
BRENT GEIBERGER:  Summertimes I would.  I guess when I was about eight to about 12 years old, I was out summertimes a lot.  That was a lot of fun; seven, six, Greensboro when he won there.  He took me back to Colonial a couple years after he shot 59 there.  And I was nine years old, but I still -- at that point I could tell, you know, I how good that was.  I keep hearing from all these guys out here.  How tough that course was, I never got to play it, but how impressive that was.   
 

Q.  Did you ever come here with him? 
 
BRENT GEIBERGER:  Actually, I did.  I think he finished second, either '76 or '77, '78 right in there.   
 

Q.  '76? 
 
BRENT GEIBERGER:  '76?  Yeah, I remember that I was amazed he shot like 18 under and lost.  I remember.  I couldn't believe it.  That was at the other course, wasn't it?   
 

Q.  Whethersfield.  That was the only year you were here? 
 
BRENT GEIBERGER:  I think so.   
 

Q.  Did he encourage you into golf, or did you just kind of -- 
 
BRENT GEIBERGER:  Kind of let me do -- do whatever I want to.  I played a lot of basketball when I was younger.  I even played junior colleges, basketball up to a few years ago, three or four years ago.  And well, messing around junior college basketball, longer than that, through high school I played both sports.  He never really said you just try and focus on your golf.  He let me do whatever I wanted to do, which is nice, not putting any pressure on me.  So I kind of just fell into golf a little easier.  I liked it a lot more, especially playing basketball during the off-season of golf, I was always ready and wanting to play golf, enjoyed it a lot more.   
 

Q.  To what point did golf overtake basketball? 
 
BRENT GEIBERGER:  Probably after high school.  I was a decent player in high school, but during junior college, I had a lot more success and I kind of figured out that I could play this game, I might have a living at it if I stuck with it.   
 

Q.  Not the too many elbows? 
 
BRENT GEIBERGER:  No.  Funny you say that, almost one of the last games I played basketball I was playing a Rec league.  This was about four years ago, near the end of the game, free-throw line, free throw, went up.  The guy's elbow came down on the side of my head.  I remember I had a seat, I was dizzy.  My head was spinning around.  I think I caught a mild concussion there, two days.  Whenever I looked fast, it was spinning.  I said, well, I might be done now.  I've had enough of this.  I love playing, but --   
 

Q.  Did the thought, there's a lot more successful six-three golfers and basketball players come -- 
 
BRENT GEIBERGER:  Yeah, I'm in no man's land in basketball.  I was like playing for the other competitive side of it.  It's a lot different than golf.  Golf, a lot of guys keep themselves inside a little more.  Basketball, you can let it out and run, good exercise also.   
 

Q.  What was the pressure of the tour school that year?  
 
BRENT GEIBERGER:  The Nike tour, finished 11th on the money list, passed by three guys last week in the tour championship.  Missed by 100, something like that.  That was pretty tough.  Should be in for two years.  You play all year, I was probably top ten for the money list for the whole year, I think, that last tournament; just barely finish outside, it was tough.  It was hard for the first couple of days.  I knew he was still going back to cue school and had a chance there.  Especially the course I was going to.  I grew up close by.   
 

Q.  Anymore questions?  What is your best score? 
 
BRENT GEIBERGER:  My best score.   
 

Q.  Competitively? 
 
BRENT GEIBERGER:  Competitively like on a tournament?   
 

Q.  Yes.  
 
BRENT GEIBERGER:  Nike, six-five.  Greenville, Greenville, earlier this year, I think I shot a six-five, bogied the last hole.   
 

Q.  Did you ever envision a 59? 
 
BRENT GEIBERGER:  Everybody always says that I say yeah.  I say I have three goals to go whenever I get there.  That's tough.  That's some good plan, your odds are very slim.   
 

Q.  During the Nike tour pretty regularly? 
 
BRENT GEIBERGER:  That's amazing, I think I've seen both of those courses.  I think Richmond and Dayton.  Of those courses, you know a couple par fives on those courses you hit an iron and make a few eagles, they're not that easy though.  Those courses, Dayton was a good course off the tee, I was surprised to see a 59 there.  The wind always blows at Richmond.   
 

Q.  The guy hit a 20-footer for seven.  That was in Dayton? 
 
BRENT GEIBERGER:  That was in Dayton.  Yeah.  Pretty good stuff.   
 

Q.  All right, Brent, sir.  That's a scramble.   


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT