CHRYSLER CLASSIC OF GREENSBORO
October 16, 2004
Brent Geiberger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CHRIS REIMER:  Want to thank our co-leader, Brent Geiberger for joining us and also congratulate him as being our co-winner of the Crestor Charity Challenge for leading the event after three rounds.  Brent, for your performance AstraZeneca, on behalf of the Crestor product, and the Chrysler Classic of Greensboro will donate $50,000 to the Brenner Children's Hospital locally, 25,000 is also going to be donated to the health care related charity of your choice.  Do you want to start off by talking about what it means to give back and how that's part of the PGA TOUR?
BRENT GEIBERGER:  It's always great for us to give back.  I mean, we're not really doing too much, it's great that the association we have with the TOUR with the charities to be able to give back.  Especially with Crestor.  And maybe I should get some cough lozenges also.

(Laughter.)  But no, it's always great to give back to charity.  There's more people that need the help out there than us and a lot of other people.
CHRIS REIMER:  Start off by talking about your round today.
BRENT GEIBERGER:  Let's see, more wind.  It was two straight days of that and feeling crummy.  So I was just trying to keep my head up straight out there.  I battled to make as many pars as I could, because I knew if I could get through today and tomorrow is not quite as much wind -- today was the day you would really fall back if you weren't careful.  I did a pretty good job of it.  A little unlucky on a few shots.  I didn't miss too many shots the first six or seven holes but then I missed look three or four greens.  It was kind of odd.  I was just coming off the false front, the edge of the green and playing the wind and didn't hit it or whatever.

I went in there and made some birdies on the back nine to get myself back in.  I started feeling bad about halfway through the back nine.  I think it kind of helped me miss that putt on 17.  About a three footer there for par.  Do you want to go through holes or anything?
CHRIS REIMER:  Sure.
BRENT GEIBERGER:  Want me to go over my bogey on five?  I decided to get my bogey out of the way for the tournament, hopefully.  I got two of them now, actually.  Number 5, I hit a solid 3-wood and it's one of those holes you got to hit something out there about 250 off the tee and had a sand wedge in and the wind carried me a little bit more than I thought.  And I got in the right bunker and got up close to the lip.  I had to try and catch it just right.  And I caught a piece of lip I think and it came out about 40 yards short of the green.  I hit a decent chip shot out there out of the rough.  I had about 12, about 15 feet behind the hole and it was a putt that just slipped by the lip.

I birdied 11.  Tough hole.  Left-to-right wind.  Hit a good drive.  About 160 yards to a back right pin.  One good thing about that is the wind was going left-to-right so getting it in the middle of the green and let the ball swing back towards the flag.  Hit a 7-iron in there about three feet.  And I made that putt.

13, I hit good 3-wood and I only had about 216 to the front.  There's a false front on the green there and greens are soft and you almost need to fly it on top or it's not going to get up there.  So I hit my little utility club again and landed right at the crest and over the top and rolled up.  I had about 20 feet would I say for eagle.  Left it a little short left and tapped in for birdie.

15, pushed a drive a little bit to the right.  I thought the wind was going to hold it up a little bit.  I got a little more right than I wanted to.  Chipped out with a 9-iron down to about a hundred yards.  I had 95 yards to the hole.  Hit a sand wedge about 10 feet behind the hole and spun it back to about I want to say about six or eight feet.  A little left-to-right breaker.  I made that.

17, I was running on fumes right about there.  I hit a 3-iron pushed a 3-iron in the right trap.  Hit a pretty good bunker shot.  Jeff Brehaut was on the other side, his putt swung by and it looked like mine was a little left center, I think I pushed it a hair to the edge and it broke on me or I pushed it.  I don't know.  But it broke right pretty good.  That was about it.  I lipped that last one.  Almost got one back.
Q.  What's the mindset going into tomorrow?  You have a lot of guys bunched up and it should be a pretty nice day, I think.
BRENT GEIBERGER:  Yeah, that's what I hear.  Sounds like it's going to be pretty good.
Q.  Do you just keep attacking?
BRENT GEIBERGER:  Yeah, it looks like, you know, I think somebody's going to come out of the top, you know, within I don't know how many guys are within 12-under.
Q.  15 within three shots.
BRENT GEIBERGER:  15 within 3 shots.  Somebody's coming out with a 65 there and get that to 17-under.  I think that's -- I feel like I need to shoot at least 5-under tomorrow to have a chance to win.  Especially if there's not going to be much wind.  But there was a little bit of wind the first day and I shot 66 and I think I was tied for awhile.  Jason shot 65.  The greens are still soft enough.  They're starting to firm up a little bit in spots.  Couple greens today.  I think you need to shoot at least 5-under tomorrow to have a chance.
Q.  Is that a good thing?  Not to go out and try to protect something or shoot for par that you know have you to go attack?
BRENT GEIBERGER:  I don't know.  I'm not really -- I'm going to go out there with a mindset of going through my routine going through each shot and hit the best quality shot I can.  I don't know if I can go out with the mindset I got to shoot 3- or 4-under the front nine.  I don't want to limit myself or put that kind of pressure on myself.  I would rather go out there and stick with my routine and take one hole at a time and because all of a sudden you start thinking I got to hit a good tee shot here, you just trying to cut the corner a little bit and you're in the rough now you're trying to make par.  You just got to, for me, I need to go out there one hole at a time and give myself as many opportunities as I can.
Q.  You and Tom obviously in the last pairing, neither one has won in a while.  Just kind of talk about that maybe comparing win less streaks out there.  Both you guys trying to get back in the winners circle?
BRENT GEIBERGER:  I haven't won in a while.  He hasn't won in a while, but he's got a nice little list there, I think.

(Laughter.)  So he's a great guy.  Always enjoyed playing with him.  It's going to be fun.  He's a great guy.  Really nice.  Polite guy.  So it's going to be a fun day.  I'm looking forward to it.  Looking forward to the challenge.  I felt it pretty good this afternoon on the back nine, making a few birdies and felt like I was up there, I think I saw the board somewhere in there and I thought I was tied and I took the lead I think at about 15.  So I felt pretty comfortable there and I was hitting the shots I wanted to and just ran out of gas a little bit coming in.  The last two holes were tough.
Q.  Have you talked to your dad at all?
BRENT GEIBERGER:  I haven't.  He's probably afraid to call me.  He still thinks he's going to get me scared or something.  I don't know or he's going to make me nervous or something like that.  No, he's -- for awhile he wouldn't even come out and see me on TOUR.  Well down in the desert where we live, and playing Bob Hope and I'm like, come on out.  And I go, come on, it is okay.  So he came out and watched the last five holes I think I went 4-under the last five that day.  So I said you need to come out more often.

(Laughter.)
Q.  What's your feeling about winning this tournament and being a father son champion of this tournament?
BRENT GEIBERGER:  I that would be pretty special.  I know we both played it the PGA together one of the first father/son to do that.  The same tournament together.  I made a bet with him, I was on the Nike TOUR at the time, in '96, and we were at a week off and I played a practice round with -- we just played a round with Jeff Gove and my dad at Sahalee, because my dad had lived up there at the time.  I met -- they just announced that the PGA was going to be there in '98 so I said, okay, dad, if I make it on TOUR and I get in the PGA, in '98, you're going to play.  He says, okay, that's a deal.  And I held him to it.  I got on TOUR in '97, I made enough money in '97, '98 to get in.  And he played.  And we had a good time.  A fun time.  Actually I was paired with Payne Stewart and Olin Browne.  But, you know, winning here would be really neat.  Especially to be able to put my name up next to my dad's at any tournament that's really special.  Especially this one.
Q.  You talk about the bogey there.  You finally made a bogey.  But that kind of really dropped you down in the leaderboard then you worked your way back up.  Is that almost something you could take into tomorrow that you obviously were kind of falling down and climbed your way back up?
BRENT GEIBERGER:  Yeah, I knew on a day like today it wasn't -- guys were going to make some bogeys out here.  So just limit yourself to one or two and you can make a couple birdies and you're doing all right.  And just when you start missing a few more greens and start making four or five bogeys, there's your 74, 75, and then you really got to do a lot of work.  I just didn't want to have to give myself, I didn't want to get myself too far out of touch going into the last round.  I wanted to keep myself in touch.  And I had a nice back nine today to keep myself right in there.
Q.  How's the hip?
BRENT GEIBERGER:  Doing okay.  It was doing fine today.
Q.  Did you wear the wrap again?
BRENT GEIBERGER:  I didn't.  I didn't today.  I didn't -- it felt okay this morning when I woke up and when I stretched out today and I swung a few clubs in the trailer.  The fitness trailer.  It felt pretty good there.  Just didn't feel like I had too much energy out there today.  I took a little energy drink with my water just to give myself a little zip out there.  To get something.  To get back to normal.  And I felt a little better about halfway through my round, but nothing very good.  So that's just the only thing I'm really battling right now.
Q.  So basically with the wind, with your feeling poorly, you're pleased with being at the top of the leaderboard?
BRENT GEIBERGER:  Sure.  At the start of the week or after the first round, if they told me I was tied going into the last day, you can ask for too much more.  It would be nice -- when I won Hartford I had a three shot lead, but it's kind of hard to -- I shot 67 on a day like this yesterday and it's kind of hard to keep that up.  It's easy to kind of fall back in those kind of situations with a 74 or something like that, so I'm pleased.
Q.  It is significant that you're the only player in the field whose had three rounds in the 60s.
BRENT GEIBERGER:  Today I shot 71 though.
Q.  Oh, 71.
BRENT GEIBERGER:  I didn't get to use my mulligans.

(Laughter.)  Two shots there.  I wish.  That would be nice.
CHRIS REIMER:  Any other questions?  Well, lots of Vitamin C tonight then and we'll see you tomorrow.
BRENT GEIBERGER:  Start off right now.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT