CHRYSLER CLASSIC OF GREENSBORO
October 15, 2004
Brent Geiberger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CHRIS REIMER:  Brent Geiberger follows up a first round 66 with a second round 67.  11-under par.  Bogey-free for the tournament so far.  You go out, you birdie the par-5s and then sink a birdie on 18.  Does it feel as simple as it sounds?
BRENT GEIBERGER:  No, today was a lot tougher than yesterday, that's for sure.  67 today is probably better than 3 shots harder today.  Especially this afternoon.  I don't know what the guys had this morning.  But I know that it wasn't quite like this.  And it's tough.  Pretty proud of not having any bogeys yet.  That was one of my goals today was that if I could get around with no bogeys I would be happy with that.
CHRIS REIMER:  Take some questions.
Q.  How is the hip?
BRENT GEIBERGER:  It is okay.  I actually got a heat wrap on there today.  And I had it on the whole day and didn't have any problems.
Q.  Is that the first time you tried that, the heat wrap during the play?
BRENT GEIBERGER:  Used one for my back before.  This is the first time I used one of the smaller ones that fits right on the side of your hip.  I put it on before I got out here today and to get it nice and warmed up.  Obviously it did the trick.
Q.  Birdie on 18, you seemed to have a pretty good reaction to that.
BRENT GEIBERGER:  Yeah, that was a tough hole today.  It was straight across, a little bit in.  And it was actually really hard, on our second shots we were having a hard time figuring out if it was just across or maybe it was hurting us a little bit.  Couple guys went before me and the wind seemed to be hurting the ball pretty good and it laid down just enough, it was still across and into us, but I knew that I had to hit what I had to hit good.  Timing is everything out there today.  You get some really big gusts, and I knew my time was to go out and hit so I got up there pretty quick and hit the shot.  Hit it where I wanted to.  Just a little short and left of the hole.  Made a nice little uphill putt.
Q.  You went off today with the goal of no bogeys, is that often, do you do that kind of in your head often?
BRENT GEIBERGER:  No, that will probably be one of the things that was holding me back is I might have three or four birdies and then three or four bogeys.  Instead of having a nice round you have a little sub par round.  1-under or even where everybody else is shooting three or four under.  So any time you can go around without any bogeys out here is a big bonus.
Q.  What do you think you'll need on the weekend?
BRENT GEIBERGER:  I don't know.  Just depends on the wind.  The only reason we were able to shoot under par today with the way the wind was is the rain that we have had, the greens have been soft enough to hold the ball on the greens.  You wouldn't see too many under par if the greens were normal or a little firm.  The greens being soft, I think we had some rain last night maybe a little bit this morning, but that was a big difference for being able to shoot 67.  You can't shoot 67 in this weather on this course without the greens being a little bit soft.
Q.  Getting it to 11-under are you surprised at how tightly it's bunched behind you at this point?
BRENT GEIBERGER:  Yeah, the scores are pretty good.  That shows that the greens are soft enough that there's some pretty good scores out there.  There's a lot of wind and the course has been lengthened, the greens were rolling really good also.  I was happy to see that they were still rolling really good this afternoon.  I didn't see any -- actually my putt on 18 was the first time I saw it really bounce all day and it bounced about halfway there and almost lost all of its speed to get there.
Q.  Is it special at all to have a chance to win at a place where your father won 28 years ago?
BRENT GEIBERGER:  Oh, sure.  I would like to win any of the tournaments he's won.  He's got a pretty good list of PGA Tournament of Champions, TPC, here.  So any time you win it's special, but it's kind of neat to have won a place your dad has.  I don't know if that's ever been done, but that's something that's pretty tough to do.
Q.  Did you ever pack a peanut butter and jelly sandwich?
BRENT GEIBERGER:  Oh, yeah, peanut butter crackers today.
Q.  Had you been here as a kid when he won?
BRENT GEIBERGER:  I came back here -- not when he won.  I was back here, I want to say when Trevino won.  I'm not sure what year that was.  My dad played with him and Trevino won here.
Q.  Your dad won the last at Sedgefield.
BRENT GEIBERGER:  Did he?  Maybe it was the first year out here.  I don't know.  He did win at Sedgefield.
Q.  Did you know that you were right there at 10-under.  Did you want to make that birdie on 11?  Was that in your thoughts at all?
BRENT GEIBERGER:  I think I saw the last few holes, I think I saw Tom at 11-under and I think I saw Jeff Brehaut at 10 and I mean I just took peeks at it.  I really didn't -- it's only Friday.  It's one of those things you just don't get too caught up in especially with the holes coming in on this course with this weather, you start thinking about other things you can make a 6 and a 7 out here in a hurry out here.  If you get in those thoughts.
Q.  When you're playing this good you mentioned yesterday you can't really practice a lot.  Do you go to the range now or what do you do?
BRENT GEIBERGER:  Like said, I told you earlier, for some reason after I left here yesterday I came down with something and I felt like a truck had rolled over me and I slept about two hours in the afternoon and then until about 6 or 7 o'clock.  Ate something.  I went back to bed about 9 o'clock.  Took some medicine.  I felt somewhat better today, but it was tough.  Trying to -- I think it put me a little bit at ease the way the wind is, it's always a little better to swing a little smoother when you get in the wind.  Sometimes you start trying to force the ball back there and hit a little harder, create more spin, the ball gets off line more easier.

I was trying to stay within myself and get some 90, 80 percent shots out there today and I think it definitely helped me.
Q.  When was the last time you played in the last group on a weekend?
BRENT GEIBERGER:  Not sure if it was Hartford or not, I don't know.  I guess you'll have to look that up.  I'm not sure.  It's been a little while though.
CHRIS REIMER:  Anything else?  Good luck this weekend.
BRENT GEIBERGER:  All right.  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT