CHRYSLER CLASSIC OF GREENSBORO
October 14, 2004
Brent Geiberger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CHRIS REIMER:  Brent Geiberger, 6-under par.  Finished with a birdie on nine there.  That's a bogey-free round.  Talk about going through the round without any bogeys.  Just kind of staying consistent.
BRENT GEIBERGER:  Yeah, it was nice.  I didn't have to -- I was telling the guys outside I didn't have to work too hard at that round, which was real nice.  Meaning I didn't have too many long par putts.  If I did, if I missed the birdie putt, it was going up to the hole just by it.  I think I made a couple of three footers, somewhere early on in my round for pars.  That's always nice to have a stress free round like that.
CHRIS REIMER:  Take some questions for Brent.
Q.  The difference today?  This has not been your best of years.
BRENT GEIBERGER:  I hit it good off the tee.  I put it in the fairway when I had to.  I'm not sure what my stats were.  I might have -- I missed one fairway coming in.  I know that was on number 7.  I'm not sure if I missed any other fairways out there.  And I hit some nice solid iron shots.  I didn't try and do too much with the irons.  I took what was given to me and didn't try and get too much out of a shot.  It was just a steady round.  I gave myself some good opportunities.  Especially this is a course where if you put it in the fairway off the tee, you're doing yourself a big advantage.  Because you get some pretty nasty lies.
Q.  Had you -- where had you been on the bubble the last couple of years going down the stretch?  Had you been inside?  Or had you been on the outside going in like you are now or what?
BRENT GEIBERGER:  No, I haven't had to -- I'm not sure when the last time I --
Q.  Did you finish 111, 113th last couple years?
BRENT GEIBERGER:  Well, 111 last year, but the last tournament after like Colonial.
Q.  Oh, okay.
BRENT GEIBERGER:  I was hurt last year.  I was like 60th when I stopped playing.  And so I'm not sure.  My first year I'm not sure what I finished, but I know like in '98 I finished second and that was at Phoenix.  Tied for second with a few guys.  I always had pretty good west coast swing.  Last couple years hasn't been so well.  Last couple years I've been fighting with my equipment a little bit.  I was changing things up a little bit too much.  But I felt like I had to.  I couldn't go with what I had in the bag at the time.  So I've been searching and finally the past couple months I've had almost 14 of the same clubs for a month and a half or so.  Which is nice.  I think last week was the first cut I missed in two months which, two and a half months.
Q.  Course pretty easy conditions this morning?  Carl was saying no wind and everything.
BRENT GEIBERGER:  Not much wind.  I wouldn't say it was easy because we had to adjust for the ball not going quite so far and it was softer.  But it changed some since Tuesday, that's for sure.  The ball was bouncing down the fairways a little better.  Sometimes that's, that helps you a little bit to not roll quite so far into the rough or the first cut.  And but actually my hip was a bit a problem.  I had to pull out of the Canadian Open there in the first round and I've been playing through it the past month.  Four five weeks or so.  Today it decided to flare up on me and I had a couple tough shots out there trying to stretch it out as much as I could.
Q.  So what will you do now?  Will you go get therapy or rehab or something?
BRENT GEIBERGER:  Yeah, I might go hit a couple balls, see how I feel.  But, yeah, I pretty much go in the trailer twice a day.  Just to stretch out and keep that hip loose.
Q.  Is that just a stress injury?
BRENT GEIBERGER:  Yeah, they didn't say it was anything -- I had a couple guys check me out the week after, right around that time and he didn't say there was anything really bad going on.  I just kind of strained something across the side, back side and front side of my hip.  It just affects me when I swing a club.  When I walk or do anything else, it doesn't really hurt.  But just when I swing, try and clear out on my left side it locks up on me sometimes and I can't get all the way through and it hurts.
Q.  Have you had to make any adjustments in your swing for that?
BRENT GEIBERGER:  No, I just wait for the pain.  Sometimes it grabs me, sometimes it doesn't.  It's not a good feeling to have.  When you're trying to put a certain shot on it.  Which is pretty tough on some of these tease.  And you try not to swing differently or adjust for it.  You try to stick with your same swing, same routine and all of a sudden it grabs you right after you hit the ball.
Q.  That's the kind of injury I would guess that could lead to a shoulder injury or something else.
BRENT GEIBERGER:  Yeah, I mean left side of your body, left side of our body is pretty important to us.  Your left foot or your left shoulder or stuff like that.  Right side you can kind of get away with it a little bit more because it's just kind of going back and you're going at the ball and you're putting a lot more pressure on your left side.  So it's a lot more important, I think.
Q.  If you were fiftieth on the Money List, would you be letting it rest and heal up?
BRENT GEIBERGER:  I probably wouldn't be playing.  I probably wouldn't have been playing the past month.  But you do what you have to do.
CHRIS REIMER:  Brent, you want to take us through your club selection on your birdies here.  Starting on the back nine.  So you started with a birdie on 13.
BRENT GEIBERGER:  Yeah, I hit a 3-wood off the tee, right down the middle.  I hit another 3-wood, I only had 230 something to the front but apparently it was playing really long there and I hit a shot just short of the green.  Had about a 30 yard chip.  Chipped it by about I want to say about 10, 12, about 12 feet.  Got by a little further than I expected and a little left-to-right breaker.  Made that.
CHRIS REIMER:  17.
BRENT GEIBERGER:  That was a good birdie there.  Probably had a skin there for awhile.
CHRIS REIMER:  Until Justin Rose came along.
BRENT GEIBERGER:  And I had to hit one of those little utility clubs.  I think I was about 230 something hole.  And I hit a mine is a little Mizuno it's called a Mizuno Hi-Fly.  I hit that in there about 15 feet no more.  And about a left edge putt.  Made that.
CHRIS REIMER:  Coming in on the next nine you par-5 the second hole.
BRENT GEIBERGER:  Second hole I hit driver, right down the middle.  I had a chance to reach.  I was about 255, I want to say.  But that pin's front left and I knew I didn't want to go left there.

So I hit it, just leaked it a little bit right.  Just short right of the green and chipped it up there about six feet short.  A little right-to-left breaker.  You get some interesting putts out here at times.  Not so much the break, but that was one that has a little more break than others.  So you got to play about a half a cup or a can you have out, six feet.  Which isn't too easy.  You got to get the right speed and right line.  I made that one.

5, I hit 3-wood off the tee.  Right down the middle.  Hit sand wedge in there.  I think I had 97 yards.  The wind was coming out of the left.  I had to hit it pretty good to get it there.  So I brought it back and it was about 8, 10 feet short of the hole after I spun it back.  A little right-to-left breaker.

6, that was a good birdie also today.  Ranks up there with almost up there with 17.  Driver and right down the middle and I hit a 6-iron to about 172.  Wind started picking up there.  Coming back in our case.  So it was a 6-iron about 15 feet short.  A little left-to-right breaker.
CHRIS REIMER:  The last hole then, the ninth hole.
BRENT GEIBERGER:  Hit a good drive down the right center and thought I might have a chance to go for it.  But if you don't get down the left side there the way the hole is now, you get a lot longer shot and I hit I ended up laying up with a 4-iron to about, I think I had about 85 yard which is a perfect L wedge for me.  And I hit it just past the hole and it spun back about 10 or 12 feet.  So I had about that.  About 12 foot left.  Left-to-right breaker and made a nice putt there.
CHRIS REIMER:  Good round.  Good luck the rest of the week.
BRENT GEIBERGER:  Thanks.  Appreciate it.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT