INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY QWEST
August 2, 2001
Brent Geiberger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BRENT GEIBERGER:   Yes, I did.  
 
BRENT GEIBERGER:   I played pretty solid for the most part.  Like you were saying, I had a couple interesting stretches in there where I started off with a birdie and then 3-putted 11 and had a bad hole on 13.  Thank God I kept myself patient and calm and knew there was a lot of holes left.  I was able to get some back, especially I eagled 17.  So, that really gets you back into it, or back on track, actually, for me.  
 
Q.  You mentioned a slow start.  What was it out there that you were able to do to kind of turn it around? 
 
BRENT GEIBERGER:   Well, I birdied 10, with a driver and a 5-iron about ten feet and made a birdie there.  But 11, I 3-putted there.  I picked the wrong club.  Hit a 7 and should have hit 8 probably.  We were not sure about the wind and how far it was carrying that early.  I had about a 30-footer to 3-putt.  And then on 13, I had a backup shot on one.  And then hit it over the bunker and hit it over the green and made a 6.  So, that's negative three, so all of the sudden going from 2 points to negative two points, in a span of three holes.  I birdied 14 and made a nice up-and-down there.  Good opportunity on 15.  I just missed.  I birdied 16, which is always nice to birdie a hole out here before a par 5, you can get a nice little stretch of a couple of holes.  Hit a driver and a 5-wood about 12 feet behind the hole there and hit a nice putt.  Made eagle.  So, all of the sudden I am backup to  -- negative 2 points to plus 7, so I tried to make sure I didn't do that again.   One bad hole.  I had to take an unplayable on No.  6.  I hit a driver right there, into a bush, and almost made par, but playing bogey there.  Made a nice putt on the next hole, from about almost 20 feet behind the hole, 7, the p-a-r  3 down the hill.  Almost made another eagle on 1.  Hit a driver and 5-wood about 20 feet pin-high right.  I made birdie there.  Nice par on the last hole.  
 
Q.  How much did the lift, clean and place contribute to your round? 
 
BRENT GEIBERGER:   Well, if we didn't do it  -- I didn't see much mud on it, actually.  A little bit.  There were not any big clumps, which can normally happen, and then you are really guessing what the ball is going to do.  But it would be a little bit.  You can definitely put it on a decent spot and give yourself a really good lie.  But for the most part, like in the practice round, our lies were always pretty good.  Some weeks, it gets a little dicey where it is sitting down a little bit, but the grass is real nice and sitting up.  I would say just a little bit.  
 
Q.  A birdie-bogey exchange in this tournament helps you out more than on a normal weekend.  Now, with you kind of being a little bit up-and-down all day long, does that, you know, play into your mind, those conditions, in a round like you had today?
 
BRENT GEIBERGER:   A little bit.  I mean, you don't like making bogeys, but you don't mind it as much, as long as you are making birdies.  And I thought about it when I was going up  -- I think I was going up 17, and I was pretty much even par, but I had like plus a couple points and making eagle, was like and a half birdies.  David Gossett told me, "Nice two and a half birdies there."  You've got to make a lot of birdies here.  This is my fourth time, I think, playing, and you've got to make at least four birdies if you want to make a difference.  You're going to make a bogey or two.  But, you know, eagles are huge out here, and as long as you can make four or five birdies a round, you're doing okay.  You get some of those guys that just bomb it, hitting every par 5 with an iron.  I don't hit it that high.  Scrape it around and see what I can get out of it.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT