FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 30, 2016
Michael Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MICHAEL KIM: It was the Greenbrier in 2013, back when he won the Haskins Award.  It was good to see him again and had a blast weather was pretty nice.  A little cloudy.  But played fairly well today.
Q. All that happening, how does that lead you into tomorrow?
MICHAEL KIM: Yeah, I'm excited.  To have a chance on Sunday to win the golf tournament, it's one of the tournaments that I've been dreaming about winning since I was a kid watching guys like Tiger and Phil win out here.  So, excited, hopefully the weather kind of stays put and let's us get out there.  But it will be a nice fun challenge tomorrow.
Q. With your experience here, do you feel like you played kind of loose and kind of helped you knowing the course?
MICHAEL KIM: Yeah, definitely on the greens.  I'm hitting it a lot longer than when I was 14 or 15, but on the greens, the greens are pretty similar and I felt really good on the greens.
Q. You talked before about how much you would want to make the cut for this event.  What was it like waking up this morning and looking at this opportunity to play the weekend and then to come out and play so well?
MICHAEL KIM: Yeah, I was definitely excited to make the cut.  You got to play a pretty tough golf course of Torrey South, but was looking forward to the challenge and glad I was able to put up a decent round out there.
Q. How do you think you played so far this season?
MICHAEL KIM: A little up-and-down.  Had a decent finish at Vegas, but really I was in good shape after third rounds at Sea Island and Frys, but wasn't able to make much of that.  So, hopefully I can put up a good score tomorrow and see what happens.
Q. Is there a learning curve as a TOUR rookie?
MICHAEL KIM: I think so.  I think with most courses you're seeing the course for the first time, same as it was kind of on the WEB.COM.  Obviously, here I played it a bunch, more than most guys playing here, so I feel like maybe that's a little less difficult for me here, but definitely just learning how to close and finishing out tournaments is definitely a learning curve.
Q. How many times have you played out here would you say?
MICHAEL KIM: A lot.  I was telling guys that I think it was Monday through Thursday after 1 o'clock it was like 10.50 a month.  And I wasn't a member at a private club or anything, so I got out here pretty often.
Q. This wasn't the high school's home course?
MICHAEL KIM: No, it actually wasn't.  We played, Torrey Pines played at Rancho Sante Fe Country Club.  We never played a high school tournament here.  It was just only myself, I guess, after school.
Q. How much fan support are you getting, recognition?
MICHAEL KIM: Decent amount.  I'm seeing some old faces I haven't seen in years, it seems like.  I forgot some of their names, but it's really nice to see and I'm looking forward to hopefully more support tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT