U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 13, 2013
Michael Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
MICHAEL KIM:   2, 4, 5.   
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
MICHAEL KIM:   I parred 2, 4, 5, 6, 7.   7 is the short one.   8, 9, no; 10, no; 11, no; 12.   13's a par‑3.   14, what's 14?   14, no.   16.   
I hit quite a few drivers.   The thing was, it's a little different wind today.   Seven drivers, seven drivers.   
A little different ‑‑ I think it was the opposite wind.   It came out of the southeast and it changed a little bit.   But that's probably about the same amount of drivers that I'll hit during the entire week, even if it is normal wind for me from the northwest.   So, yeah, seven drivers.  
   
 Q.   Did you have any moment this week where it sort of reminded you you're at the U.S. Open?  
MICHAEL KIM:   Yeah, when I was playing a practice round with K.J., John Hahn, and also Sang Moon Bae, that was pretty cool.   I was actually more nervous hitting the first tee shot then than actually hitting the first tee shot on 1 today.   
   
 Q.   You played with Padraig the first day?  
MICHAEL KIM:   Also Padraig, yeah.   I didn't know I was playing with him until he showed up on the first tee, and I was like, oh, Padraig Harrington, three‑time Major champion, casually decided to join us.   But it was awesome.  
   
 Q.   He's a great guy, though?  
MICHAEL KIM:   Yeah, a real nice guy.  
   
 Q.   What did you talk about?  
MICHAEL KIM:   Not too much.   He doesn't talk too much.   He just kind of minded his own business.   I was kind of like the guy just following everybody around, just hitting some of the same shots they were hitting.   But it was fun.  
   
 Q.   Do nerves come into play at all to be this young and come to a Major like this?  
MICHAEL KIM:   I didn't really feel too nervous out there, other than maybe a couple moments.   And I just tried to have fun.   Tried not to expect too much.   And I felt pretty good the entire day.  
   
 Q.   What expectations did you bring here?  
MICHAEL KIM:   Not too many.   I just was happy I qualified and I play better when I don't have a target score or expectations.   
   
 Q.   Did you ignore the people out there?   (Inaudible)  
MICHAEL KIM:   I just tried to ignore it.   Put it a little bit to the side a little bit.   No, but I'm sure he'll call me in a little bit and talk about it.   I'm just surprised ‑‑ usually goes to the golf course, I'm surprised that he didn't bring ‑‑ let's go through every single hole with the shots.   But, no, yeah, I mean he's out here today.   I'm sure he'll come out today.   
   
 Q.   He said he was going to walk with you on the back nine?  
MICHAEL KIM:   I don't know.   I didn't see him.   
   
 Q.   I didn't see him either.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT