JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 15, 2018
Michael Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. (In progress.)
MICHAEL KIM: Yeah, you know, last night was a pretty long night.  Didn't get that much sleep.  Probably went through a million different scenarios through my head even though I was trying not to think about it.
But one of those scenarios was if I get off to just a great start on the first two, really show those guys not much to look at, would be great.  Just got off to a fantastic start.  The putter was hot again today.
Just to be able to finish with no bogeys today, so proud of myself really.
Q. And talk about that.  It felt like grinding to not make bogey was what really kept you going when you had the big lead?
MICHAEL KIM: Yeah.  No, you know, the front nine I told myself, You got to make birdies.  You got to be aggressive.  You can't just make pars because these guys can make birdies on every hole.
I told myself I wouldn't look at the leaderboard until at least the 12th or 13th hole, but on the 9th hole I just accidentally kind of took a peek.  I think I had an eight- or nine-shot lead at that point.
From that point on I just ended up playing a little tentative; you know, just had a few tricky par putts.  Just was able to make those and keep the momentum going.
The one on 18 felt really special.
Q. The floodgates opened for you this week.  I know the results haven't been there since you got out here on the PGA TOUR.  Can you even put into perspective how it all came together this week to have a record-setting performance like this?
MICHAEL KIM: I don't know.  I wish I had the answer.  I don't know.  I've been working hard at it.  You know, the season has been up and down, to say the least.  A lot of down, especially leading up to this event.  To be able to hit a high like this is pretty special.
Q. I feel like this has to be what you hope is the first of many, to finally get in the winners' circle.  I know you're only; another member of that class.  You've seen some of your buddies win.  I know this has to be really sweet for you.
MICHAEL KIM: Yeah.  I mean, this is the longest 18 holes of my life, tell you.  You know, I hope that walk up 18 was not my last, and what an incredible feeling that was walking up 18 knowing I had it in the bag.
It's going to make me hungry and work harder.  Hopefully get a few more.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT