JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 13, 2018
Michael Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Michael, thanks for taking the time.  Didn't quite get your round finished, but what you did out there was pretty impressive:  no bogeys; eight birdies.
Talk about the round and the heat and how you kept it going today.
MICHAEL KIM: Yeah, it was really hot out there.  I think that front nine was kind of almost in survival mode just trying to get through the day.
On the back nine the cloud coverage and the delay kind of cooled everything off.  It was much better after the nine.
But obviously really happy with the round, or still continuing the round, so -- I don't remember where I got my first birdie.  Let me think.  Oh, 2nd hole.  So got off to a good start.
You know, was trying to not focus too much on the score.  Just take it one shot at time, and I think I did a good job of that.
THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. What's been the difference this week?  You're at the top of the leaderboard obviously, but you're not squeaking by.
MICHAEL KIM: Yeah, last couple weeks it's felt pretty close.  You know, just felt like if I could get the putter going and get some good momentum I could shoot some good scores.
You know, just the putter has been really hot; hitting my irons great; driving it pretty good.  So just kind of coming together at a great time this week.
Q. Has the TOUR been about what you expected or has this come a little slower than you expected or you have no expectations?
MICHAEL KIM: You know, you have expectations obviously playing with your heros, my heros growing up.  To be alongside them is really cool.  It's a lot more golf than I expected.  Last couple years I think I've played about 30 tournaments, so that's been kind of unexpected.
But otherwise it's been a cool run so far.
Q. 17 birdies in 35 holes.  Have you had runs like that before?  If you had and when you do, how do you keep it going?
MICHAEL KIM: Maybe in college a couple times, but obviously not at this level.
Just at the end of the day it's still golf.  Just going to try and do my best on each shot and just keep going.
Q. Have you done anything with your putting stance or alignment?
MICHAEL KIM: I think it's more of a mental thing for me.  If I feel like I'm rolling it on my line, then I feel like I'm a good green reader, so if I can just kind of roll it on my line, that's when I feel the most confident.
You know, Thursday morning just warming up kind of found a little mental note with me, and it's been working for me so far.
Q. You said you have to go back to college to remember such a great performance.  When you tell people about yourself, introduce yourself a little bit, because you're a fairly new guy.
MICHAEL KIM: Right.
Q. Another young gun on the TOUR.  What would you like people to know about you other than your game speaking for itself?
MICHAEL KIM: You know, just an ordinary guy.  Part of the 2011 class.  It's been pretty well-documented I feel like with Jordan, Justin, Berger, CT pan, Xander Schauffele.  I mean, the list goes on and on.
I had a great run in college at Cal for two and a half years.  Went to the Web after Q-School, end of my junior year, and spent a couple years on the Web.
Came out here and this is my third year.  Other than that, just an ordinary kid from San Diego, California.
Q. Might've taken you by surprise, but the question that comes to mind is that this tournament is known for helping guys establish themselves.
MICHAEL KIM: Yeah.
Q. What does it mean to be here and be performing so splendidly?
MICHAEL KIM: Yeah, obviously Bryson had his -- I think it was his breakout win last year.  If I can follow along that route it would be awesome.
You know, I've been really comfortable on the course the last couple years, and if you look at kind of the guys that have done well here going back, guys like Steve Stricker, Zach Johnson, Jordan Spieth, you know, guys that don't necessarily bomb the ball, but with good wedge game and putting they can do good out here.
So kind of along that same mold, so.
Q. You know that low scores win here.  You're going to have to stay aggressive, even though your lead is somewhat substantial.
MICHAEL KIM: Uh-huh.
Q. How do you try to maintain that aggressiveness despite knowing that all weekend you could be seeing more start/stop conditions like you are.
MICHAEL KIM: Right, uh-huh.
Q. You might battling unplanned stoppages.  How do you try to keep your focus and that aggressiveness?
MICHAEL KIM: You know, you just stick to the game plan.  Just because you have a lead I don't think you should change anything.  I'm going to kind of have to think through tonight just to see what my game plan is just mentally.
For the start and stop, I've always liked having a delay here and there; kind of refresh.  You know, get maybe like a second warmup or something like that.
Just on the Web.com and PGA TOUR there has been plenty of stopping and going throughout the year, so I feel comfortable with at least the weather part.
Q. You have to wait overnight and you have to wait two more hours to start another round.  Talk about the approach.
MICHAEL KIM: Yeah, I think really just ignore the leaderboard as much as you can, ignore the scores.  Just me and the golf course.  I think that's how I'm going to take it for the next two days.
Q. You mentioned San Diego.  Xander went to San Diego State.  You ever run into Phil or Xander?
MICHAEL KIM: Right.  I've known Xander since probably I was 12 years old.  Known Xander for a long time.  Played a lot of junior golf against him, college golf.  So I've known Xander a lot.
Phil, I haven't run into Phil as much.  Just seen him out here in tournaments here and there.
Q. How cool to see a guy like that who you know you can beat and you've beat before have the success he's had?  Does it tell you, Okay, look, if this guy can do what he's doing, I definitely can get it done out here?
MICHAEL KIM: Yeah.  Like I said, all the guys I played against in the 2011 class, I felt like I was just as good as those guys.
You know, seeing them do those things, win majors, win tournaments, is really motivating trying to keep up with them.  It's just been added motivation for sure.
Q. I think you celebrate a birthday tomorrow, right?
MICHAEL KIM: Yeah, tomorrow.
Q. You're what, 25?
MICHAEL KIM: 25, yep.
Q. Starting to feel a little old?
MICHAEL KIM: I don't know.  Yeah, played with Ken Duke last couple days, so I don't know about feeling that old.  (Laughter.)
But, you know, there is a great mix of younger guys and old guys.  The trend has been kind of going younger with even guys like Joaquin Niemann.  I think he's 19 or something like that.
I play with guys like him and I feel like a little more of a veteran.  Play with guys like Ken Duke and just the complete opposite.
So just it is what it is.  I'm 25; enjoying it out here.
Q. What has been the biggest adjustment out here for you?
MICHAEL KIM: Just the PGA TOUR, TOUR life?
Q. Yeah.
MICHAEL KIM: You know, like I said, just the amount of golf, amount of traveling.  I thought I played a busy summer schedule when I was a busy college golfer, but that's for month and a half, two months, not for the whole year.
With the fall you really don't get too much of a break other than maybe end of November and December.
So just not having a full off-season sometimes.  That's been kind of a change.  But other than that, it's been great.
THE MODERATOR: Okay.  Thanks for joining us for your time.  Good luck tomorrow.
MICHAEL KIM: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT