ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 28, 2018
Michael Kim
Andrew Putnam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Andrew, how would you describe today's round?  Pretty good.
ANDREW PUTNAM: Yeah, overall pretty good.  We started off couple birdies, and then kind of lagged a little bit in the middle part.
Picked it up in the end.
Q. You played well at the end, especially you did.  Mike, what's the strategy tomorrow?  Alternate shot.  You change anything?
MICHAEL KIM: No.  You know, I think we did a pretty good job on Friday, so looking to do a lot of the same things.
Q. You guys can accomplish a lot with a win tomorrow.  Andrew, I know you're excited about the possibilities.
ANDREW PUTNAM: Yeah, this is exciting to be in this opportunity and have a guy next to you rooting you on.
We'll see what tomorrow brings.
Q. Any pressure tomorrow, Michael?
MICHAEL KIM: Yeah, I'm sure there will be a little pressure, but we'll be relying on each other, and hopefully have a good time there tomorrow.
Q. How would you characterize your out there today?
MICHAEL KIM: Andrew played great.  I just tried to help out a few holes getting there.  But he played great.
Be looking forward to some more tomorrow.
Q. What was the biggest challenge out there that you guys had to overcome, do you think, Andrew?
ANDREW PUTNAM: I just think we got a little sluggish in the middle of the round.  I feel like it got warm out there and it was a long day.
I mean, it wasn't -- we didn't really have many opportunities to make bogeys.  It was pretty simple.  He was chipping close, making pars, and I was able to roll a couple birdies in.
We were both feeding off each other and he was allowing me to play good golf.
Q. Now we move back to alternate shot for tomorrow, a format a lot of players say they really love it being the last day for the drama and the challenge.  What do you guys need to do?  What did you learn as a team on Friday that will help you on Sunday?  Andrew, start with you.
ANDREW PUTNAM: I think we just got to keep our heads down and keep grinding.  We're both playing pretty good golf, so just shoot the best score we can.
Q. Michael, what did you learn in alternate shot with your partner that you'll apply tomorrow?
MICHAEL KIM: Just some steady golf, fairways and greens.  Put as less stress on him as possible.  I think it'll be good tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT