MLB WORLD SERIES: MARLINS v YANKEES
October 23, 2003
Derrek Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Obviously, now with last night's win, you get to go back to Yankee Stadium.  Two questions.  The weather forecast is between 50 and 60 degrees.  Is it good news the weather's gonna be warmer there than it was last weekend?  No. 2, what is your impression of Yankee Stadium?  Is it as intimidating and will it be as intimidating second time around?

DERREK LEE:  For your first question, it's definitely nicer that it will be a little bit warmer.  Especially that second game there in New York, it was freezing cold.  Us being down here from Miami, we like the warm weather.  It will be nice it will be a little warmer.  Part two, we enjoy playing Yankee Stadium.  Just the tradition and history behind it, just feels right the World Series being there.  Obviously, the crowd gets into it.  That place can really be rocking.  We enjoy it and we're looking forward to getting back there. 

Q.  A follow-up to that.  Sixty degrees didn't sound warm to me.  Do you think the season goes too long?  It starts in the cold, it was snowing in Baltimore.  Ends in the cold.  But you play for the pennant in August when it's 100 degrees?

DERREK LEE:  I can't really say the season is too long.  We've been playing this many games for a long time now.  You can't really say it's too long.  I mean, obviously, whatever you got to do to get to the World Series, you'll do it.  It's a long season.  It's a marathon.  You grind it out.  It is what it is. 

Q.  Is there anything that Cabrera can't do?  If so, what is it? 

DERREK LEE:  Yeah, man, he's the natural, you know?  Nothing bothers that guy.  He just comes out, has fun.  From day one, he made an impression, his very first day here, hits a game-winning home run.  He's been doing it ever since.  Seems like every time we need a big hit, he gets it.   The guy can play every position; he's played left, third, short, right.  He's learned them all in the playoffs.  He's flawless at every position.  He's just a natural.  He makes everything look so easy.  I just enjoy watching him play.  I really believe he's gonna be a superstar in a couple of years. 

Q.  I know you've beaten some good pitchers to get here.  Is it different facing the Yankees starters with their experience both in 10, 15 years in the league and also their postseason experience?

DERREK LEE:  Yeah, you face a staff like Chicago Cubs and, you know, they're definitely power pitchers.  Their stuff is electric.  Then you face a staff like the Yankees, who's just as successful but they kind of come at you with different stuff.  They have the knowledge and experience, the postseason experience.  They know how to pitch.  They understand what they're trying to do to you. It's kind of two different type of styles but they're both very successful. 

Q.  Game 6, Andy Pettitte.  Second time you've seen him.  Second time that he's seen you.  Where do you think the advantage may be?  And, personally, how do you look at it from facing Pettitte? 

DERREK LEE:  Well, I'm sure he feels like he has an advantage, but we feel like we have the advantage.  It's always nicer to see a guy second time around.  He's a great pitcher, so he's gonna make adjustments.  But the hitters, we're ready to make the adjustments we feel we need to make.  He's been a big-game pitcher for them for a long time and I'm sure he'll be ready for the challenge, but we'll be ready, too. 

Q.  You want to be locked in, you're in the World Series, a place you dreamed of since you were in little league.  How do you find a balance between being able to enjoy it and being locked in and focused?

DERREK LEE:  It is tough to kind of find that balance.  You want to enjoy it, you want to kind of experience it all.  At the same time, you've got to be focused for the game, be ready to play.  You know, you have people calling you, family, friends, wanting tickets, wanting to do this and that.  You want to accommodate everyone, people asking for autographs.  You want to accommodate everyone, enjoy the experience.  At the same time, you have to kind of find that balance so you are ready to go out there and play and be focused. As an adjustment, that's where a team like the Yankees, they have that experience.  They've been through it.  I'm sure they found out the balancing act it takes to be successful. 

Q.  When you have a guy like Alex struggling through the postseason until he hit that home run, did teammates take it upon themselves to constantly encourage him?  Do you more or less leave him alone and try to let him work through it?

DERREK LEE:  Well, you just try to encourage him, you know.  Every player goes through it at some point in the season.  Like you said, it's a long season.  It's not always gonna be good.  You're gonna go through those low points, but you got to stay behind him.  He helps us in so many ways, especially in his defense.  So he's a huge part of this team.  Even when he's not hitting, he can help us out.  But he's gotten big hits for us all year.  He had a great season for us, I believe he had 18 home runs, drove in a lot of runs.  It's not surprising he comes up with another big hit right there. 

Q.  One thing you don't see very often in the World Series is the players on one team applauding for the other guy's pitcher.  How did that all happen last night?  What did that feel like to you? 

DERREK LEE:  Well, I was just proud to be a part of it.  I really believe the fans started it.  They understood the moment.  They recognized that was gonna be his last pitch.  He got the acknowledgment he deserved.  We just kind of followed the fans' lead, basically just showing respect for what he's done in this game.  It's hard to believe a guy with his stuff is actually retiring, because he looked pretty good out there to me.  But just shows you, we just wanted to show our respect for what he's done for the game. 

Q.  Is there a certain sense of relief or a sense of confidence that you get when the Yankees go to their bullpen and it's somebody other than Mariano Rivera? 

DERREK LEE:  (Laughing).  Yeah, you know, that guy's probably the best ever at that closer position.  But they have some other guys there that are tough.  Contreras last night, that was the first time I've seen him in person.  He was lights-out.  I didn't realize he threw that hard.  I didn't realize he had such a good split.  So they have a tough bullpen as well as good starters.  But, obviously, Mariano Rivera, you want to have the lead so you don't have to get to him.  They have the lead in the eighth, you got to go to him, you're facing a tough comeback. 

Q.  I believe you were born in Japan, until you were 10 or 11 years old; is that right?

DERREK LEE:  I wasn't born there, but when I was two, I went over there.

Q.  I wonder what your take is on the Matsui situation and all the media from Japan and the coverage of that situation, just having that kind of background?

DERREK LEE:  Well, I mean, that guy, I'm sure every single move he's making is being followed over in Japan right now.  I was actually over there last November on the All-Star tour and he's the biggest thing they have over there.  They love him and he's having a great World Series so I'm sure everything he's doing right now is under a microscope.  The Japanese, they love the game of baseball.  I'm sure they're happy for Matsui right now. 

Q.  Do you feel like a lot of the things you guys do now are under a microscope?  What is that like after having months of kind of being off everyone's radar? 

DERREK LEE:  Yeah, we don't normally get a lot of media or attention from the fans.  But it's nice.  We finally kind of get to showcase what we're able to do, play on the biggest stage of the world, the World Series, against the Yankees.  So it's nice.  A lot of people probably never heard of most of us, but now we get an opportunity to show the world what we can do. 

Q.  Can you talk about Conine's contribution?  He's come in and obviously made a big impact and is having a terrific postseason.  What can you say about what he's done for you? 

DERREK LEE:  Well, he's a consummate pro.  You hardly know he's in the clubhouse.  Once he gets out on that field, he's a true professional.  He never gives an at-bat away, plays hard in the outfield.  He's gotten  -- I can't even count how many big hits he's gotten for us, especially late in the season when we're trying to get into the postseason.  You can just learn a lot just by watching the way he goes about his business.  You can tell he's been through this before.  He's having a great postseason.  I think the front office did a great job getting him over here when Mike Lowell went down. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT