NASCAR HALL-OF-FAME INDUCTION CEREMONY
January 23, 2016
Bryson Byrnes
Kelli Stavast
Krista Voda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  KRISTA VODA: Three years ago NASCAR introduced an award that honors a group whose role is vitally important to the growth of the sport, the motorsports media. This award is named after two broadcasting giants, Ken Squier and Barney Hall. Earlier this afternoon, Bryson Byrnes accepted the Squier‑Hall Award for NASCAR Media Excellence on behalf of his father, Steve Byrnes, and just like his dad, he owned the room. Steve entertained and informed race fans on television with both charisma and a sharp reporting style for more than 30 years, including the last decade and a half with NASCAR on FOX. This day is about those who paved the way in our sport. Each of us has a person, the one who guided us, who gave us a blueprint. Steve Byrnes was my person, my mentor, my friend.   
In April Steve lost his courageous battle with cancer but not before serving as an inspiration to the entire NASCAR community.   
(Video shown.)  
Steve had a saying: "Be present, present in whatever moment you're in." Well, present today with us, his parents, his brother, sister, niece, nephews, and his two greatest loves: His wife Karen, and his son Bryson. Karen and Bryson, will you please stand?   
Ladies and gentlemen, please join me in welcoming the family of the 2016 Squire‑Hall Award winner. He is now in the Hall of Fame as he should be, Steve Byrnes.   
KELLI STAVAST: We have Karen and Bryson. Bryson, you did a phenomenal job yesterday accepting that award. So many people say that you remind them of your father. What lessons do you think he taught you that make you so much like your dad?   
BRYSON BYRNES: That's such a tough question. Well, just be nice to others. You know, just enjoy what you do, have a great attitude while doing it, and just always going full out when you do do something, and do what you love, and when you do do it, just do it with a heart and a passion of doing it.   
KELLI STAVAST: We saw so many tributes to him throughout the season last year. What does it mean to you to see him honored again here at the NASCAR Hall of Fame?   
BRYSON BYRNES: It's just awesome. It's just really great to see. It's just great to be here today, and it's just been awesome. It's just outstanding, and it's really‑‑ it seems like he's really lived out his legacy today.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT