AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: TIGERS v RANGERS
October 10, 2011
Doug Fister
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Let's take a few questions for Doug.   
  
  Q. Doug, last game in New York, two runs right off the bat in the first. How much does that help settle you when you get early run support like that?   
     DOUG FISTER: Obviously, it's always a good thing to have run support from the very beginning. But it can't change the approach for the pitcher at all. It doesn't change the mindset, it doesn't change how you attack hitters. It's a matter of okay, the score is still 0-0. We still need to go out there and play.   
     Especially with teams right now, you can't let off your game, you can't back down at all. The lineup 1 through 9 is always a quality lineup. You have to be on your toes and be ready for anything. It's definitely nice to receive run support from the get-go.   
  
  Q. You were the earliest draft pick in '04, '03.   
     DOUG FISTER: I got drafted in '06.   
  
  Q. Pardon me. Only off three years. You were the earliest draft pick not to have signed that year. And I think you knew it might cost you money. And I think it probably did. Can you talk a little bit about that decision since it really was against the grain?   
     DOUG FISTER: Yeah, it was kind of against the grain at that time. I spent a lot of time thinking about it and talking to a few different people.   
     But it really came down to me. It came down to I wasn't ready to make that step yet. I was still in college, and physically, mentally, emotionally, I wasn't ready. Especially looking back on it, there isn't a dollar sign on the experiences that I got my senior year in college that I would ever take back.   
  
  Q. You have really excelled since you've been with the Tigers. What have you liked the most about pitching maybe at Comerica, the fans, your teammates and the clubhouse? What have you liked the most about Detroit?   
     DOUG FISTER: Obviously, there's a huge fan base in Detroit, which is terrific to play in front of. It's been very prevalent, especially in the postseason. We sit back, we watch everybody standing on their feet waving the white towels. It's something that gives you chills to be a part of.   
     The most part -- the best part for me is the teammates. The coaching staff, the teammates. That's always the most important for me, is being a teammate, being a part of the camaraderie that you get to enjoy the scenery, we get to enjoy the fans and everything that goes along with it.  
  
  Q. Are you heading back early today? Are you staying?   
     DOUG FISTER: Definitely staying here for all day.   
  
  Q. Was that presented to you as an option?   
     DOUG FISTER: No, this is definitely a team thing, and everybody has got to be here through it all.   
  
  Q. You've pitched against Texas quite a bit. Does that help you to just have that in the back?   
     DOUG FISTER: Yes and no. It's one of those things just like in New York. They've seen us, we've seen them. So everybody is very well acquainted. You've got to be willing to change your game plan when it comes down to it, being on the fly you have to be able to roll with the punches, per se.   
     So that's how we're going to attack it. We're going to attack it with our best stuff and come in and do the things we do. If we need to change things up or mix things a little differently, we're willing to do that too.   
  
  Q. Doug, for those of us who weren't with you, around you at the time, can you talk about what those days were like for you in July when the trade deadline was coming up? Did you hear a whole lot of rumors about yourself? Were you wondering what team it was going to be? Where you were going to go? Can you describe at that time what that time of your life was like?   
     DOUG FISTER: That time, obviously, I was still with Seattle, hanging out with some of the brothers that I had there. I still talk to them to this day. People I rely on.   
     But at that point, there was a lot of -- a lot of rumors going around. But really have tried to focus on playing the game. I took the mindset I wasn't going to listen to any rumors. If something happened, I would take it and take it one step at a time.   
     But trying to figure out who is going to do what, it was just going to be too overwhelming. I have no control over any of it at that time. So I just took the mindset, hey, I'm going to come into the ballpark ready to play, and if something happens, they'll let me know.   
  
  Q. Just a follow up, what was the transition like once you joined the Tigers? Was it immediately you felt a part of the team? Or did it take you getting on the mound and kind of getting that energy to get there? What was it?   
     DOUG FISTER: You know, it was definitely a whirl of emotions obviously leaving the family that I had in Seattle. The first time I walked in the clubhouse in Detroit was -- I was welcomed with open arms. I had guys coming up and David and I had guys coming up and hugging us, very excited to see us. It was almost a funny comedy show to watch a couple of the guys get on me and have some fun.   
     One of them was Miggy. It was very warm welcoming for us to walk in. They made it very easy for the transition.   
  
  Q. Hey, Doug, the records were so diametrically different from Seattle to Detroit and Dave and Jim have specifically said in a lot of these press conferences that they think you just didn't get enough run support in Seattle. Was that the case?   
     DOUG FISTER: I feel like I'm pitching the same. I feel like I'm taking the same approach, same mindset, same everything. Different personnel around me, different things click. Playing different teams and whatnot.     Fortunately the ball has rolled our way a little bit, had some momentum. I would say that the run support obviously is a little bit better, but things just kind of worked out that way.   
     THE MODERATOR: Okay, thank you very much.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT