MLB WORLD SERIES: TIGERS v GIANTS
October 24, 2012
Doug Fister
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   People talk about hitting being contagious.   The way you guys pitched in the last series, was pitching contagious, too?
DOUG FISTER:   I think so.   I definitely think so.   I think you feed off your teammates no matter what you do.   It's an attitude, it's something that you can control.   It's a part of the game that you really have to take a conscious awareness of it and be able to take it and run with it. 
I mean, good energy, good feelings between one player and another, being able to pick one another up is a big part of the game, and I think it's one of those human elements that you really have to put forth an effort in.   Even when times are tough, that's when it's really time to pick up one another and say it's all right.   If you didn't get the job done, the next guy is, and you've got to have faith and trust in your teammates. 

Q.   Is it special being from this part of the world to be playing in a World Series in this setting?
DOUG FISTER:   Absolutely.   Growing up, don't tell anybody, I was a Giants fan, and being able to come to a couple games when I was little, it's always been a dream and a goal for me, and now it's happening. 
It's definitely special being able to come into the ballpark and play in a World Series is something that obviously is a moment that will never be forgotten.   It holds a little bit more special place in my heart, I would say, but it doesn't change what we do on the field. 

Q.   Do you look forward to getting the chance to hit, or would you prefer‑‑ do you prefer‑‑
DOUG FISTER:   No, absolutely.   That's a part of the game that us in the American League, we don't get a chance to do very often, only during Interleague and now during the World Series.   It's a necessity that everybody kind of has fun with, but at the same time it's one of those parts of the game that you really have to focus. 
As a pitcher we definitely have to be able to put the bunt down and execute what we're called upon to do.   If that's a hit‑and‑run, we need to make some contact; if it's a bunt, we need to make sure we get that runner over. 

Q.   When you look at the Giants, it's obviously a different type of offense than you saw last year with the Yankees.   Does that play into your preparation or do you just pitch to your strength?
DOUG FISTER:   I think the biggest thing for us is we play to our strengths.   Yes, we're aware of what the other team does and their tendencies, but at the same time we don't want to work away from our strengths.   We want to go at people with our best stuff whether a pitcher or a hitter and don't waver from it.   As soon as you start wavering from that, you start changing your game plan and kind of get off kilter.   We really just want to stay within ourselves, play the same game that we've played all year and go take it to them. 

Q.   How does Jim Leyland differ from other managers you've played for?
DOUG FISTER:   I mean, Jim obviously has been around for a long time and knows the game inside and out.   He's one of those guys that never wavers.   He's got our back, we've got his back the whole time.   He sets a precedent for us. 
It's a team atmosphere; it's a family atmosphere out there in the clubhouse and on the field, and that's what he shows from first pitch to last pitch.   He's always constantly thinking about what can we do to gain an edge and be able to play the best ball that we can, and so I think he really just leads us and that sheds off for us. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT