MOTEL 6 CACTUS BOWL: BAYLOR VS BOISE STATE
December 26, 2016
Thomas Sperbeck
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THOMAS SPERBECK: Yeah, I think it's very exciting, every time we play a Power Five school.  And it's exciting for our whole team and program.  I wouldn't say we treat it any differently than any other game.  But it is on a bigger stage and it's an opportunity for us to kind of prove how good we are.  So it's definitely exciting.   
 Q.  Talk about the speed of Baylor defense.  This year they're plagued by injuries and now they're at full health.  But do you expect to see kind of the defense -- at the beginning of the season they were one of the best defenses in the country.  But do you expect to see that similar defense that happened earlier in the season as opposed to later during their six-game losing streak?  
THOMAS SPERBECK: Yeah, definitely.  We expect to see that early Baylor defense early on in their games, the one you are talking about and how good they were.  If you expect the best out of them you'll play your best.  I think it's pretty critical that we don't underestimate them.   
 Q.  What are some of the challenges you can present to them offensively?  What do you guys do well that you think you can challenge their defense?  
THOMAS SPERBECK: One thing we talked about is our shifts and motions.  We get guys moving around and kind of get them communicating and make sure they stay true to their assignments.  I think that will be a big part of it.   
 Q.  Have you ever played football on a baseball field before?  
THOMAS SPERBECK: I never played football on a baseball field, no.  But I'm assuming the outfield's hopefully like the grass that we get to play on.  So hopefully it won't be too much of a curveball.   
 Q.  In terms of receivers and things like that, how have you guys been able to use this month off to prep for this game?  
THOMAS SPERBECK: We definitely are getting back to our fundamentals, doing a lot of footwork drills, things like that.  Just kind of getting back to the basic and everything that comes off it and working our route endings, things like that.  But it's definitely been a big month for the wide receiver group.   
 Q.  How would you describe them as a whole, your playmakers, the wide receivers?  
THOMAS SPERBECK: The wide receivers, it's definitely an explosive group.  I feel like we kind of feed off each other.  When we see Cedric make a big play, it makes me and Chaz want to do good and make a big play.   
I think our whole offense feeds off each other like that.  But for the wide receiver group specifically I think we're always making each other better.   
 Q.  And I know you guys have a few Arizona guys, a little bit younger.  But in that group, in terms of Austin and that sort of thing, do you see any kind of common characteristics and how would you describe those two players?  
THOMAS SPERBECK: They're definitely two hardworking guys.  It's exciting to see Austin play.  And Julian right now is kind of injured with his shoulder.  But A.C. on special teams, him running down the field, he's definitely a hard worker, and he's a fearless guy.  He throws his body in there and does anything that the team needs from him, especially special teams-wise.   
 Q.  You have those two guys, Austin and Jay, plenty of Arizona guys.  Do you see any common personality traits or kind of any commonality between those four or five guys?  
THOMAS SPERBECK: It's actually funny you say that, sometimes when they're talking and they kind of almost, like, sound the same.  It's funny.  But I don't know, that's what I think, at least.   
But other than that, I wouldn't say the same characteristics or anything like that, yeah.   
 Q.  When you say they sound the same, like voice or lingo?  
THOMAS SPERBECK: Yeah, it's almost like they have their own accent.  It's almost like -- that's what I think, at least.  But I don't think a lot of people see it like I see it.  But, yeah.   
 Q.  Obviously you had a big game here a couple of years ago.  What's your mindset going into a game like this now?  
THOMAS SPERBECK: My mindset is just kind of like every other game.  I don't think we're treating it any differently, just like Coach Harsin said.  But prepare the best we can.  We've had a big month of conditioning and strength and kind of getting our game plan down for these guys, and I think it should be fun.   
 Q.  Think it's going to be a high-scoring game?  
THOMAS SPERBECK: Hopefully on our end it will be.  But who knows.  It's hard to tell.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT