DESERT CLASSIC
January 19, 2019
Charlie Reiter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Well, I don't know if you knew it or not but 63 is the course record for this tournament on that golf course.
CHARLIE REITER: That's nice.  That was nice.  I'm just trying to make the cut.
Q. It looks like you missed the cut by one.
CHARLIE REITER: Yeah, maybe, we'll see how it goes at the end.
Q. So it's really, really good news, really, really maybe disappointing news in that regard, but what's it feel like to have set a course record?
CHARLIE REITER: It's pretty good, I was just trying to makes a many birdies as I could.  Every time I made a birdie I was just trying to make one more and get closer and closer to the cut.  So it worked out.
Q. Clearly you must have done pretty much everything well today, but was there one thing that kind of got the round to where it was?
CHARLIE REITER: I don't know.  My putting was really good.  I hit every shot really close, so my putting was good enough to make the putts.  But everything was just steady.
Q. What about the eagle on the par-5 5th.  That was pretty sweet.
CHARLIE REITER: Yeah, I had like 227, I hit a 5-iron to like 12 feet.  I made that one.  So that was good.
Q. When you started the round was the cut even in the back of your mind?
CHARLIE REITER: Kind of.  Yeah.  I mean I figured I would just have to go out and makes a many birdies as I could and we'll see what happens at the end.  Close.  But we'll see how it goes.
Q. Technically it's the same missed cut you had last year at this point, but it's got to feel a lot different.
CHARLIE REITER: Yeah, I mean going out here and shooting 63 on the Stadium Course is not too bad.
Q. And at this point you've played in two PGA TOUR events, the experience, what have you, what did you learn this year that maybe you didn't learn last year?  That you can shoot 63, right?
CHARLIE REITER: Yeah, pretty much.  Just playing it better, that's it, I guess.  Just finding a groove and going out and making as many birdies as you can.
Q. Are you somebody who thinks about how low you are during the round?  Are you saying, oh, I'm 6-under, that's 7-under?
CHARLIE REITER: Sometimes, but no, I try not to.  It's not that big of a deal to think about the score, but I was just trying to make one birdie and every hole.
Q. What's your next tournament?
CHARLIE REITER: Hawaii.  I go for SC.  Waikoloa first weekend of February.
Q. That's going a feel a little different than this.
CHARLIE REITER: Yeah, yeah, it will be a little cooler, nice beach weather.
Q. Again, last time I'll ask you this question, it must be nice to be here playing the way you played and having your dad here.
CHARLIE REITER: Yeah, yeah, it's awesome.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT