CAREERBUILDER CHALLENGE
January 18, 2018
Charlie Reiter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Your first round on a PGA TOUR, 18 years old, tell us what the galleries were like following you being the local high school kid out here.  
CHARLIE REITER: Yeah, there was a lot of people I knew, a couple of my teachers were out here, the whole golf team pretty much was out here on the first tee, we got a little photo in.  My mom and dad and a lot of people I knew were out here.   
 Q.  Your coach was on your bag and I know that helped you settle the nerves a little bit.  What was your game plan going into this round after you shot a 68?  
CHARLIE REITER: From the beginning I kind of was just trying to have fun.  I was trying to settle my nerves on the first tee, took a little slow start and then I kind of got settled in and had a lot of fun out there.   
 Q.  How did you balance the excitement with the nerves and the gallery following you?  
CHARLIE REITER: Just I accepted it on the first tee and it kind of took over me on the third or fourth hole, but after that I kind of just was playing my game and had a lot of fun out there.   
 Q.  I know yesterday you were getting familiar with La Quinta, a course that you weren't as familiar as compared to the other two courses.  How does your game suit this course?  
CHARLIE REITER: It's a little different, I kind of, it's more of a precise, precision golf course.  You have to hit a lot of straight shots.  And I hit it pretty long and I kind of hit it all over the place, but today I hit it really straight, which was very nice I had a couple crazy shots from through the trees that I had to pull off which were very nice.   
 Q.  I was on the range yesterday and there were some PGA TOUR players that were buzzing about you, particularly your driving.  Explain where that came from and how long you've been working on getting that to where it is now?  
CHARLIE REITER: I kind of -- well actually the first time that I got a lesson with Dave I told him, I don't hit it very far, so I need to work on my putting.  And that was when I was 10.  And then I grew a little bit and I just started swinging as hard as I could.  One of my coaches told me, just swing as hard as you can and the speed will come and it did.   
 Q.  Game plan for tomorrow?  What's it going to be like?  
CHARLIE REITER: Just have fun and try to shoot as low as I can.  Just mostly having fun though.   
 Q.  How do you feel about how it went today?  
CHARLIE REITER: It was just a little slow in the first four holes and then on the fifth hole it was a par-5 and I had to hit a little low hook around a tree and I got it and I hit it to a foot and made eagle on that hole and then it just kind of jump started my round.   
 Q.  Obviously that second shot on the first par-5 was amazing, like you said.  Did you have to kind of work it around the tree?  Was it a 5-iron?  
CHARLIE REITER: Yeah, it was a little down in the rough and I just closed the face and trusted my swing and it worked out perfectly.   
 Q.  How did getting that eagle sort of like pump you up?  
CHARLIE REITER: It just calmed me down and it was like, all right, we're good, we're free, let's just keep on making more birdies.   
 Q.  Did you get a kick out of the galleries today?  
CHARLIE REITER: Yeah, it was a lot of fun.  A lot of people I knew were out there.   
 Q.  Was it, now that you've actually done it was it as hard as you thought?  
CHARLIE REITER: I just kind of, I mean I played in one before, so I kind of knew how to handle myself in a certain way.  But definitely it was a little more, it was a little more different playing with everybody I knew watching me, so.   
 Q.  And then what about tomorrow?  Is it going to be hard to recreate that adrenaline?  
CHARLIE REITER: No, it's always going to be there, because my nerves are going through the roof, but I just got to accept it and just go have some fun.   
 Q.  You had fun out there today?  
CHARLIE REITER: Yeah, I had a lot of fun, I really enjoyed it.  Playing with Maverick, he's a great guy, so.   
 Q.  Your coach Dave, Junior said earlier that walking from the car to the range you felt like you were going to throw up.  
CHARLIE REITER: Yeah, yeah, we went over to the Mountains Course because I can't hit driver here because the range is too short.  So we went over there and I hit a couple drives and my legs were like wobbly and I was like getting light headed and I said, I think I'm going to throw up.  And then I got to the course and I kind of settled down a little bit.   
 Q.  Is it going to be hard to, now that you've reached this level, to kind of go back to any other type of adrenaline type of golf tournaments?  
CHARLIE REITER: Every time I go on a course it's always fun, so I always love being out here, it's always the same, no matter where I play.   
 Q.  What's your goal for tomorrow?  
CHARLIE REITER: Just go out and have fun, that's it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT