PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2010
Mark Sheftic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Take me through today's round, things you did well, things that you might look to improve upon next time you're out?  
 MARK SHEFTIC: I had fun. I had fun. I finally got myself comfortable and the last nine holes I shot even par. I got off to a really, really -- oh, I was nervous. I was nervous out of my element, my comfort zone. And I couldn't have played with two better guys. They made me feel good. It took me long enough to get myself settled down, but I started to really hit some good shots coming in and I had a good finish. So again it's, I, for what it's worth, it's a little bit of a success in my opinion that could have got ugly, but I got it together the last nine and I played really good. I hit a lot of really good quality shots once I got myself settled down a little more.   
  
  Q. How were the weather and course conditions today compared to Thursday and Friday?  
 MARK SHEFTIC: I always wanted to make it to the weekend.  
 (Laughter.)  
 No, it was interesting. Yesterday teeing off at 6 o'clock, the fog, it was hot, it was windy, it was kind of all over, but you know what, everyone else has to play in it, it's kind of luck of the draw, so yesterday was a weird day, teeing off at 6 o'clock and only getting five holes in, but it is what it is.  
  
  Q. This is your second consecutive PGA Championship, correct?  
 MARK SHEFTIC: Yes, it is. My second one.   
  
  Q. Does this time around this year feel any different than last year?  
 MARK SHEFTIC: Feels the same. It always is incredibly special to be here. I don't know how else to put it. Play in a PGA TOUR event once a year, last year and this year. And you look at most people's records, I think that again the more you do it, the better you get at it, and then yeah, from a club pro perspective I feel pretty comfortable. You look on the board and see Tiger and you see Ben Crane, you see, you know, a lot of the names that you watch on TV all the time and I think you have to find a way to get over that and actually play golf and that's kind of where I got myself caught up on, and but every time, every time I'm here to compete at a major. A great thing was I got to see a lot of my club pro, I saw Jim Remy, Allen, Byron Nelson, Ted Bishop, all the officers and it's always, I got to know them very well and one thing I like is the PGA's in good hands. They're great, a great group of guys and even after I got off to, I shot 82 the first round and Allen comes up to me and he gives me a big hug and says go get 'em and it keeps me wanting to play harder.   
 So I get to see all my club pros, I get to see the officers, I get to play with the best players in the world and at an amazing facility at Whistling Straits. The staff here is amazing, how they treat us is amazing, so I look at it as a successful tournament. One of these days I'll, you never know.   
  
  Q. Anything can you take away from this weekend?  
 MARK SHEFTIC: Just great memories. I'm not going to dwell on the scores that I shot but what I'm going to dwell on is the experience that I gained and that was nice. There was 20 club pros that work very hard doing our job and we don't get to play a lot of golf, but we know that coming into it so we have to keep things in perspective, but just the memories and making friends, playing with the best players, you can't put a price tag on that, and it's just a thrill.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT