PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2009
Mark Sheftic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MARK SHEFTIC: For everything that happened today, I mean, I wasn't sure how I was going to play today. But I hit the ball. I didn't hit the ball very well, but I scored pretty well. And then ended up shooting 4-over for my first PGA TOUR major. Part of me is, okay, he did okay. But I left a lot of shots out there. I'm a little disappointed in that. 
And going after more than just trying to make the cut. So I'm trying to play my best golf. And I think with the nerve factor, I think that sort of got me off to a little bit of a very defensive start. But as the round progressed, I thought, okay, I was 2-over most of the day. Get a couple of birdies, get it back to even and try to do something. Like I said, overall we'll go out and get them tomorrow.

 Q. What is the biggest thing you want to work on between tonight and tomorrow?
 MARK SHEFTIC: Completing my backswing. Getting -- my tendency with my swing is I get short and quick. I get nervous and hands get tight. I get a little short. Upper body dominant. Get the club trapped behind me. And that's where that hook comes in. I want to get out there, and goal for tomorrow, better width at this moment, finish the backswing. That's what I'm going to go for tomorrow. I'll go to the range and hit some shots, try to get into a rhythm. For the first time I've ever played -- I'm repeating myself -- when I've played in this kind of event, I did okay. 

 Q. Is this the longest course you've ever played?
 MARK SHEFTIC: Yeah, by far. Absolutely. It's a bear. There's some holes out there, No. 12, 518. It's borderline a par 5. I haven't played too many par 4s over 500 yards in my life. 
 But, again, everyone has to play it. It is what it is. And you gotta accept it and whatever happens happens. So I look at it this way. If you make bogey on a couple holes here, I don't think you lose too much. I don't think you really lose a shot in the field. I know other guys are out there making bogey. Like I said, it's a fun challenge. That's how you have to look at it. Keep a positive attitude and keep looking at it that way. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT