BIG 12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 7, 2007
Kelsey Griffin
Kiera Hardy
Connie Yori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR: We're now being joined by Nebraska.  Coach, your thoughts about this afternoon's game. 
 COACH CONNIE YORI:  My leading thought is I wish we would have gotten it done.  I'll tell you what, Iowa State is a good basketball team.  Highly competitive game.  I thought the two teams competed very hard.  Made a lot of plays.  Get 70 at the regulation, you know you've got two teams that are making a lot of offensive plays but I thought two teams that competed very hard on their defensive ends. 
 Bottom line is in the regulation, Lyndsey just hits huge shots.  And she's a senior who she's broken my heart on numerous occasions.  And that was a big shot.  We had a chance to go to do some things in overtime, and we had our opportunities.  And I thought we got tired.  And they made some mental mistakes defensively and they capitalized on them.  I think when you're playing Iowa State, if you make mental mistakes, I think they make you pay for it. 
 And the point guard that they have, I just think Lyndsey, I think she's awesome.  I think she's a great player.  I think she's -- she just makes that team go and she makes great decisions and she did it in regulation and she did it in overtime. 

 Q.  Coach, when did you see the fatigue set in? 
 COACH CONNIE YORI:  Well, we had some mental lapses, I thought, in the second half in defending their stats, in defending the ball screen.  We had a mental lapse in helping off the ball side post or helping down off of a guard on the ball side and gave up a wide open 3. 
 But I do think that we -- I just think that says a lot about Iowa State.  They're really well conditioned.  They're tough.  We should have been the more fresh team, and I thought they showed great toughness. 
 But I thought we showed good toughness, too.  Don't get me wrong.  I think we competed very hard.  They just made a few more plays.  When we broke down, they made us pay. 

 Q.  That was a tough shot she hit at the end of regulation.  Do you think you had it defended pretty well? 
 COACH CONNIE YORI:  Not really.  We didn't execute defensively.  We should have got out on her.  You know she's going to shoot it.  And we didn't switch the ball screen.  She knocked it down. 

 Q.  For coach and the players, you shot 64% in the first half.  28% in the second.  What happened there? 
 COACH CONNIE YORI:  Well, law of averages, I think in part.  We really had it going in the first half.  But they doubled the post in the second half and took some things away from us there.  We didn't have as many easy opportunities on the low block as we did.  We expected that. 
 We made them pay a couple times on the weak side.  And Kelsey had three assists off of basically of double teams.  But I just -- it was a case where I thought their double teams bothered us. 
 Their zone bothered us some.  Just a case where I didn't think our shot selection was really that much different in the first half as the second half.  I think sometimes they go down. 

 Q.  Kiera, after a tough loss like this how confident are you in this team's ability to regroup and kind of refocus for what you have ahead? 
 KIERA HARDY:  I'm very confident.  We still have a lot of season left.  Now is not the time to go into the tank.  I mean you're playing for possibly going to the NCAA tournament, somewhere where we haven't been.  I'm disappointed about this loss, but I think our team is going to do pretty well in a tournament. 

 Q.  Kelsey, could you kind of answer the same question about this team, how you think this team will rebound for the NCAA tournament? 
 KELSEY GRIFFIN:  I think the team's worked very hard to be where we are now.  We've had some hard losses but the one thing about the team is how resilient we are.  So if anything hopefully this loss will motivate us, and I think it potentially can.  So I'm not too worried about it.  It's disappointing, but I think we'll overcome it. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT