NCAA MEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: DALLAS
March 15, 2018
Scott Nagy
Loudon Love
Everett Winchester
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Tennessee - 73, Wright State - 47.   
SCOTT NAGY: Well, I think it's kind of the obvious.  You just can't play as poorly as we did offensively and win an NCAA game, not against a game like Tennessee.  We talked about this, that we were going to have to play great on both ends.  And we struggled offensively this year.   
We haven't been a great offensive team.  We've had some ups and downs.  We've been in some games like this where we've played this poor offensively and won, but when you're playing Tennessee, that just isn't going to happen.   
Pleased with the kids, how hard they played.  We got good shots.  We did everything we needed to do.  And then it just puts so much pressure on your defense.  I thought defensively we were really good.  Now, we didn't rebound the ball as well as we should have.  And when you miss as many shots as we did, you're going to get beat on the glass.   
I've got nothing to complain about with how hard our players played.   
 Q.  Loudon, you're only ten minutes in the first half, how frustrating was that sitting there, you waited all this time to play in a game like this, and to have to watch it from the bench?  
LOUDON LOVE: It's tough from a personal standpoint, not just because I'm sitting there, because I can't contribute for the team for at least those ten minutes.  And it really stopped me from going in the first half with those fouls.  You've got to be smarter.  We knew that.  We knew they were physical, and you just can't make stupid fouls, but definitely difficult.   
 Q.  Did you feel they were coming at you, or was that just kind of in the flow of the offense?  
LOUDON LOVE: I think it was in the flow.  The first one was not ideal for me when I wait for it, just catch and post at 15 feet.  There's no reason to push him down.  And I think it was just in the flow of the offense, not getting through screens and such.   
 Q.  Everett, you were really the only offense that they had there in the first half.  It looked like the stage wasn't too big for you.  What did that feel like getting out there and attack being early on?  
EVERETT WINCHESTER: For me, it felt good, of course, because if it wasn't for my teammates and my coaches believing in me, none of that would have happened.  I don't know.  It's just hard because I know we have some great offensive pieces, and shots didn't fall for us.  I made some shots that I just wish we all as a team would have made shots together.   
 Q.  Tennessee defensively, did they do anything that gave you particular trouble today?  
EVERETT WINCHESTER: Tennessee, they're really physical on defense.  They're in the lanes.  They attack the ball.  And they just pressure a lot.  I think we have some pretty good looks out there.  We just couldn't knock down the shots.  That's just how I feel.   
LOUDON LOVE: Yeah, like Everett said, they're definitely a physical group, but I found myself out of control and stuff due to own pace, and it was tough getting gauged at the beginning of the game to what it was like, and them being physical like they are and athletic, it just made it more difficult.   
 Q.  How unsettling was it for you guys to see Grant struggle like that?  I know he kind of gives you guys a spark, and he couldn't buy a basket.  
LOUDON LOVE: I mean, whether it was emotionally shooting the ball or whatever, he carried this team almost all year.  Both the seniors, him and Trey, even Trey on practice squad.  It's hard to see him play his last college career game like that.  You wish both of them would drop, but we know he was trying to make each one, so we can't blame him for anything.   
EVERETT WINCHESTER: Although he wasn't hitting shots, he was the first one, the main one out there with a smile on his face still.  I know he missed one, and he said, the next one has to fall, with a smile on his face.  He's a very important piece to this time.  Without him, we're not here.  It was hard seeing him miss shots, but it kept us motivated.   
 Q.  Just how would you kind of sum up your NCAA Tournament experience?  
LOUDON LOVE: It was neat.  Shorter than I would have liked.   
EVERETT WINCHESTER: I agree with Loudon.  It was really a great experience, but of course, we wish we could have advanced.   
 Q.  How tough was that to have Loudon on the bench with foul trouble almost the whole first half?  
RICK BARNES: You know, it was more frustrating than anything.  His third foul was his fault, just because he was standing straight up and got screened.  And he's obviously an important part of our offense.   
But you know, I don't think it impacted us that much.  You know, I think when we go back and look at this, two things:  Tennessee has been good defensively all year, and so it's to be expected a little bit.  And we got some great shots.  We flat-out got great shots, particularly in the second half, we got great shots and just didn't make them.   
You know, you're not going to be able to play with Tennessee if you don't play well offensively, and we didn't.  And too, honestly, the first two fouls Loudon got were not good fouls for him.  He just wasn't -- early in the game, he just wasn't in a good spot.   
 Q.  Just a little bit on Benzinger's struggles today and also I think he banged himself up diving on the floor?  
RICK BARNES: Yeah, I mean, you're going to have games like that.  You are.  Grant has had people sticking to him all year, and so I don't think that was any different for him.  I mean, he's had the kind of defensive players that Tennessee has guarding him all year, and so I don't think -- I'm not knocking Tennessee.  I'm just saying I don't think that necessarily was the impact, and Grant has had some tough offensive games.   
Sometimes he takes some tough shots, but we've asked him to do that because he can make tough shots, and he's put the time in, so we live with it.  It's just -- I don't know what to tell you.  He just had a tough game offensively.  You know, then when he dove on the floor there, he's had basically a hole in his hip.  When I went down and looked at it, it was probably two inches wide, and I'm sure they're going to have to stitch him up before we go home, but I mean, he's had a hole in his hip because he dives on the floor like that all the time, and he reopened it when he dove on the floor.   
 Q.  2 of 15, 5 minutes left in a blowout and he's diving on the floor, does that kind of sum up his career?  
RICK BARNES: Yeah, it wouldn't matter what the score is, that's the way he plays.  That's the way he plays in practice.  I've said that several times, I've had to ask him to stop doing stuff like that in practice because we have to keep him healthy.  But it isn't going to matter to him what the score is.  He's been -- he has been the heartbeat of our team all year.   
 Q.  What was the message in the locker room afterwards, to kind of look at the broad picture as opposed to today?  
RICK BARNES: Yeah, and it's hard.  I've had to give that speech 23 times now because I've ended every one of my seasons with a loss.  It's hard for the kids to hear it right there.  Doesn't matter what you say to try to make them feel better.  They don't feel better at that point.  I think as time goes on, they'll be able to look back and see what a special season this was.  But one thing I told them, I haven't enjoyed every team that I've coached.  I wish I could say that I have, but I have really enjoyed these guys.  This team has been a joy to coach, and for as thin as we were and as young as we are, having accomplished so much.  And the key now is to make it a habit.  And it's hard.  It's hard for teams at our level to get back here.  But if you can get in here and have players that have been to it two or three times, then these kind of things change.   
 Q.  I know everything starts at 0-0 next year, but what kind of carryover can there be for like a freshman like Everett, the way he came out and attacked early?  
RICK BARNES: I mean, for everybody, the expectations for our whole team should change in terms of how we prepare for next year and what they think.  We primarily lose one guy that has played for us, and we're adding six, six good players.  So our depth is going to change a lot.  It's going to be very competitive.  But the guys that are coming back understand what it takes, they understand the culture that's needed, and they'll be able to teach the new guys, and so we're obviously very excited about the future.  Just it's hard to think about those things today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT