VIVENDI CUP 2010
September 23, 2010
Johan Edfors
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Minus 11, how good is that?   
 JOHAN EDFORS: That is pretty good. I played really solid today actually. I holed a couple of good putts, but still a little bit disappointed. I don't think I'll ever get a better chance to shoot 59 than I had today. I was 10-under with five to go and I had 80 metres left on 14 in the middle of the fairway and I bogeyed that one and then I birdied 17 and 18 coming in.   
 So felt a little bit better but had a really good chance for a 59 there. I was playing really nice.  
  
  Q. And you were obviously thinking of that at that time?  
 JOHAN EDFORS: Oh, definitely. I lipped my eagle tryout on 9 and I missed the return coming back so I 3-putted that one, but then birdied 10 and eagled 11, birdied 12 and then I holed a good birdie putt on 14 after a poor second shot.   
 So I really felt that I had a good chance there. I mean, I was stroking the putter really good, but unfortunately 3-putted 14 there, still nice, but the good finish with birdie on 17 and 18.   
  
  Q. You've obviously had your moments across this season but it's been a little while since you've shot that low, hasn't it?  
 JOHAN EDFORS: It's been a little while, definitely. I felt it's been pretty close, I hit my driver good for a long time but I've been struggling a little bit with my approach shots. Distance control has been a bit off, but this week I've been hitting really solid shots and holing a few putts, as well. So that's always key.  
  
  Q. Is there something about the nature of the course that particularly appeals, as well?  
 JOHAN EDFORS: Well, it sets up pretty good for me. I can get a lot of use from my driving here. It's pretty wide out there and not very much rough, so I mean, I can give it a little extra bash and leave myself a wedge on most of the par 4s, and I'm hitting mid-irons into all of the par 5s. So of course you're going to have a lot of birdie chances.  
  
  Q. It's not all about you this week, it's a team effort, I imagine your partner was thrilled.   
 JOHAN EDFORS: Oh, definitely. It's one of my best friends and a sponsor, as well. We were having a lot of fun. We have a little birdie bet, as well. He gets 300 USD for each birdie and I get a hundred, and I managed to get a hundred off him today and he was playing pretty good, as well.   
  
  Q. Does it help playing with a friend and sponsor like this, just to aid in the relaxation, the state of mind even going out there?  
 JOHAN EDFORS: Oh, definitely. Especially when you play with fourball, it always has a lot of energy, so it's going to rub off on you, as well. It's always fun playing with him.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT