3 IRISH OPEN
July 29, 2010
Johan Edfors
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOHAN EDFORS: Played solid in the beginning and didn't hole any putts the first couple of holes and then made a bogey on 6. 
 But after that, really took advantage of all my chances and made some nice birdies and made a great up-and-down, hit it in the water on 18, and still managed to make a par. That was a nice finish. 

 Q. It could have gone off the rails and your mood changes, but that's a fine position to be in. 
 JOHAN EDFORS: Oh, definitely. I'm really happy with my game today, and try to keep on playing like this for the rest of the week. 

 Q. I take it it's good to say, as we always say, play with somebody else who is shooting well, and Marcel Siem shooting low. 
 JOHAN EDFORS: Oh, definitely. Both Marcel and Greg, I thought Greg played better today than his score, but we all played pretty solid and I just tried to hang on to Marcel today. He was always a shot ahead of me it seemed like. He played nicely.

 Q. We haven't spoken for a little while. 
 JOHAN EDFORS: We should have more chats. 

 Q. Has that been frustrating, your scoring of late?
 JOHAN EDFORS: Oh, of course it has. I showed a little bit of form in Loch Lomond there, but I mean, last year was a big disappointment, of course. It's always a bit tricky I think to play on home turf. It's a lot of things around it and you really almost want a little bit too much. So got in my own way really last week. 
 It was nice to have a few days to reflect on that and come back today and shoot this number. 

 Q. Beautiful track last week and this is a lovely one this week?
 JOHAN EDFORS: This is fantastic. Exceptional conditions today. Barely no wind and nice and warm and sunny. So I'll be surprised if it's going to stay like this for the rest of the week, and the course is going to get a lot trickier if we get a little bit of wind. The scoring is good today, but I don't think it's going to stay as good. 

 Q. Richard Green was saying there was a sense of relief and relaxation coming to this one after last week where you had to really fight the elements at time on a very long course?
 JOHAN EDFORS: Definitely, here, you quite often have a bail-outside. So if you don't feel 100 per cent sure of your long game, you can always aim it to a little bit right of the fairway and still get away with it because there's almost no rough, and you didn't have that at Bro Hof, you had to be firing on all cylinders to have a decent round.
 This is a little bit easier that way, but for the wind, it's going to get really tricky around here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT