BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 23, 2010
Johan Edfors
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOHAN EDFORS: I've been playing really nicely, giving myself quite a few chances to be honest. Made a couple of errors that resulted in some bogeys but overall I'm really happy with the game. 

 Q. You seemed to bounce back, which you have to do. 
 JOHAN EDFORS: Yeah, I made a couple of really good birdies there on 4, 5 and 7. So that was really good. Unfortunately I made a bogey on 8, sort of spoiled the day and I had a really good chance on the last hole, my ninth. 
 But anyway, I'm still in it, so hopefully it's going to be windy tomorrow, as well, otherwise it's going to be tough to have a chance to win I guess but if it's windy tomorrow, I'll have a chance. 

 Q. I guess the feeling is that it might be a little less windy and they have got a later start, all that sort of stuff; you've had a long day?
 JOHAN EDFORS: Yeah, it's been a long day, 35 holes today but I mean, it happens like that sometimes. Hopefully next time I'm on the other side of the draw. If it's windy tomorrow, it not going to be all that unfair. 

 Q. What are your feelings to a 54-hole event?
 JOHAN EDFORS: Well, I mean, considering the flight situation in Europe, I can see why, because if you don't get finished on time on Sunday, it's going to be big, big trouble to get to the next event. 
 So I guess they have to do it. They almost could have announced it already yesterday I would have thought and maybe put us -- I don't know. It's tough for us to play 35 holes in one day and the other guys get one day of rest and play the first round in perfect conditions. We don't know what their second round is going to be but that's the way it is. 

 Q. Is there a benefit having that day off? It would be very strange not playing on Saturday especially after building up a head of steam; after so many holes on the field you have to have a break?
 JOHAN EDFORS: Yeah, I'm sure I'm doing pretty good on my side of the draw. I rather would have played tomorrow, of course, but the way is like it is, so there's not much we can do about it. Just hopefully it's windy tomorrow and then I'll still have a chance.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT