THE 3 IRISH OPEN
May 16, 2009
Johan Edfors
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOHAN EDFORS: I probably would rate this one a bit high. The conditions were tough today which I can check and I played a really solid round of golf. I played pretty conservatively on the tougher holes, just tried to hit the fat part of the green and 2-putt from a pretty long distance, and seemed to pay off and I managed a couple of birdies on the par 5s and hit it up close on a few occasions.

 Q. Give us an example of how tough it was conditions-wise out there. 
 JOHAN EDFORS: Oh, it's at least a four- or almost five-club wind. I mean, yesterday on, was it 5, the par 5 there, I hit driver, driver, and I had 60 metres left. Today I hit driver and a little pitching wedge, so that just shows you how much the wind is blowing. 

 Q. Sounds ridiculous, but there are times when you actually say that to yourself or get frustrated, or do you just accept it and get on with it? 
 JOHAN EDFORS: No, I mean, I got off to a pretty good start there. We only played two holes in the really bad conditions, when it was raining, as well, and all you can do is laugh. That's what I think. I mean, it was just ridiculous to see how the ball is flying and I was hitting at irons from 60 metres and stuff like that, so you have to really invent new shots.

 Q. You're good at the invention and you've played on these kind of courses plenty of times in the past?
 JOHAN EDFORS: Yeah, I find it easier when they are a bit softer. When they get really firm, I think it's much, much tougher. So now you can quite often hit it up to the hole anyway but you still have to hit a low shot. I'm not all that good on the long chip-and-runs, as you see some of the Scottish guys use every now and then.

 Q. What are your thoughts going into the final day given your position and your experience, you'll probably be the man who comes out as favorite, albeit a shame Lowry is playing as well as this?
 JOHAN EDFORS: He's playing fantastic golf and if he keeps on doing that, it's going to be tough to catch him but I'm going to do my best to give him a run for the title. 

 Q. Do you feel competitive? 
 JOHAN EDFORS: Of course I do. 

 Q. The word "amateur," doesn't mean much anymore, does it?
 JOHAN EDFORS: They are so good nowadays, it's amazing to see someone, I think he's 22 years old and he's already such a good player. I just wish I was that good when I was 22. 

 Q. Couldn't have done it? 
 JOHAN EDFORS: Not when I was 22, not even close, no, no. 

 Q. What were you doing at 22? 
 JOHAN EDFORS: I would have missed the cut by 15 shots there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT