THE ABU DHABI GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 15, 2009
Johan Edfors
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Your assessment? 
 JOHAN EDFORS: I made nicely today and gave myself a lot of good birdie opportunities and made a few good putts. Unfortunately a couple of 3-putts there on the back nine, but I'm hitting my driver really good and irons, as well, so pretty friendly conditions out there, as well, with not very much wind. 

 Q. Last week help you get back in the swing of things?
 JOHAN EDFORS: I didn't have that big of a break actually. I only had a week off over Christmas, but then started practicing before New Year's. I had five or six days of practise before going down to Bangkok. 
 I'm really happy with the way I'm playing. Played good at the end of last year, as well. So it feels good. 

 Q. I take it you didn't practise at home?
 JOHAN EDFORS: No, I was down in Dubai. But that is home. 

 Q. Are you living there now?
 JOHAN EDFORS: Yeah. 

 Q. How many of you are there? 
 JOHAN EDFORS: I think there are four or five Swedes. Haeggman is living down there as well, but I think he might be moving back to Sweden and Stephen and Michael Vargas is moving down there as we speak, as well. So a few of us. 

 Q. Is this because of the collapse of Swedish society? 
 JOHAN EDFORS: The collapse of Swedish society? Well, I haven't noticed much of that. (Laughter).

 Q. You said it's not the golden era, the socialist golden era that was planned so beautifully in the 60s and 70s. 
 JOHAN EDFORS: Yeah. 

 Q. Give us more golf. 
 JOHAN EDFORS: Politics isn't my strong side. (Laughter).

 Q. It would be great to do something good here, wouldn't it?
 JOHAN EDFORS: Oh, definitely. It would be nice to get off to a good start of the year. I'm really looking forward to the season. I think I did a lot of good job the last couple of years, and worked hard. Hopefully it's going to pay off this year.

 Q. You talked at Loch Lomond a couple of years ago, the changes that were going to be long term, are they coming to fruition? 
 JOHAN EDFORS: It's something I noticed, at the end of last year, I'm striking the ball really consistently now and hitting quite a lot of fairways and hitting my irons really good nowadays, as well. 
 So I give myself lots of birdie chances, and if I just hole a few putts, it's going to be a good score. 

 Q. Is this a driver's golf course, would you say? 
 JOHAN EDFORS: Yeah, it's really important since the rough is up. If you miss a fairway, you're going to be struggling and I think I missed three fairways today and I was 4-up ahead, so I was lucky to get it on the green. I think it's important to hit a lot of fairways, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT