BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
March 14, 2008
Johan Edfors
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Well done on two accounts?   
 JOHAN EDFORS:  Yeah, I was really happy with that.   
  
  Q.  Mad rush at the end?   
 JOHAN EDFORS:  It was a little bit.  I didn't get too happy with two groups, both 16th and 17th tee, so a little bit in the rush but we managed to get it done so it's great.   
  
  Q.  Getting from 16 to 17, there was a lot of delay?   
 JOHAN EDFORS:  Yeah, we had probably almost 15 minutes on the 16th tee and then bed to wait on the second shot for another ten minutes and then a 15-minute wait on 17, as well so, it was looking very good then.  But as I said before, we got finished, so really happy with that.   
  
  Q.  Were you tempted to run between shots?   
 JOHAN EDFORS:  I was asking if we could hit it up on the green when they were on the green on the 17th but we made it through so it was good.   
  
  Q.  But you did come with an arrangement to the group behind you to play the last?   
 JOHAN EDFORS:  We were waiting for our second shot and they were getting finished so that was good.   
  
  Q.  You must be delighted with the score?   
 JOHAN EDFORS:  Definitely.  It was pretty tricky conditions.  The wind switched 180 degrees probably six or seven times, so it was really tricky, not clear what the wind was doing.  I played some really good golf and gave myself a lot of good chances.  Got some pretty easy ones, hit the par 5s in two and knocked it up close on a couple of occasions and chipped it in for an eagle on 10.  It was all happening.   
  
  Q.  I know you say the tricky conditions, but I daresay you were here this morning with the gusts, you'll be pretty relieved with the conditions you had.   
 JOHAN EDFORS:  Actually when I looked out from my hotel this morning, it looked like it was great and didn't look like it was windy at all so I was surprised they had suspended play.  I guess we had the last nine holes now with not very much wind.  So that was really nice to have a lot of good chanceness on the back nine, so it was nice to get off to a good finish.  It will be nice to sleep in tomorrow, that's good.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT