COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
January 26, 2008
Johan Edfors
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   RODDY WILLIAMS:  Johan, thanks for joining us, very well played today.  Taking a one-shot lead into the final round tomorrow.  How are you feeling at the moment?   
 JOHAN EDFORS:  Well, I feel pretty happy with my game.  I've played pretty solid on the front nine today and then had a little slump there at the end and really sort of crawled into the scorer's hut.  But I'm happy with the way I played, and I will need a low score tomorrow to come back here.   
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  How are you feeling out here?  It has been a little while since you were in contention.  How do you approach the day?   
 JOHAN EDFORS:  I felt very calm before I was going to tee off, but then going down the first hole, I was really nervous coming up to the green and I missed a two-and-a-half-footer or something for birdie, so it wasn't the best of starts.   
 Bounced back with birdie on the second and after that hit some really nice iron shots and gave myself a lot of good birdie opportunities but I couldn't quite take advantage of those chances and made a birdie there on 7, but unfortunately a bogey on 8.   
 I was pretty happy the last couple holes.   
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  We were just talking outside about the 15th, you had an interesting shot there.  Can you talk us through that one?   
 JOHAN EDFORS:  Yeah, I hit a poor drive out to the right.  Didn't get a very good lie.  I was actually in a little hole in the wasteland.  I needed to hit it 120 metres to get over the water, and it was borderline if it was possible.  I couldn't help thinking about just hitting the shot - one of the most difficult I had ever taken and I was wondering if it was actually possible and somehow I pulled it off and hit a fantastic shot and gave myself a good chance for birdie actually.  It was really a turning point I think to be able to make that there.   
  
  Q.  How frustrated were you that you couldn't do as well last year as you did in 2006, a difficult one for you.   
 JOHAN EDFORS:  Of course it was tough and I was very unsatisfied with my results last year, but I really wanted to take the next step.  I worked really hard on my game for the first six, seven months of the year and I over did it.  I was working just a bit too hard.   
 So I got really tired during the events and when I had a week off, I was so tired, I couldn't get any decent practise in there.  So I was trying a bit too much.   
 But hopefully the practise, it won't show state away but hopefully it will show this year, and I took two months off and I'm enjoying myself on the course and I'm really happy with the start of the season so far.   
  
  Q.  You talked about being nervous on the first today.  How do you think you're going to be tomorrow?  With the quality of the field tomorrow and the conditions, you know you'll have to shoot a decent number.   
 JOHAN EDFORS:  Well, going into Sunday with a one-shot lead, I think I'll be less nervous tomorrow because sort of the Saturdays have been a little bit of my weak days in the past.  So I'm just happy to get around in 69 without playing as good as I can.  I know if I can to get up to a decent standard tomorrow I'm going to be hard to beat.   
  
  Q. what do you think you will have to shoot tomorrow ?   
 JOHAN EDFORS:  Well, I mean, you never know.  If the conditions are like today, you could shoot 7-, 8- , 9-under out there.  So it needs to be low to have a chance to win I think.   
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  Good luck tomorrow.  Play well.  Thanks very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT