COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
January 25, 2008
Johan Edfors
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOHAN EDFORS:  Played really solid round and gave myself a bunch of good birdie opportunities and made a couple of pretty ease-birdies on the three other par 5s, tap-in birdies and the short par 4, as well.  Gave myself a bunch of chances from within 20 feet and holed a couple, as well so, it was really nice. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  You were saying outside you've had a couple of months off and pretty intensive ten days in the training camp, if you could elaborate on that a little bit. 
 JOHAN EDFORS:  Yeah, I took two months off after last year.  Had a good think about what I did last year.  I wasn't very happy with the way I was playing last year and how I was feeling on the course.  I wasn't enjoying myself as much as I usually do, and changed some aspects especially during tournament week so now I think I'm getting back into the shape that I want to be. 

 Q.  How much time did you take off? 
 JOHAN EDFORS:  I didn't touch the clubs for almost eight or nine weeks. 

 Q.  Is that the longest stretch you've ever had off? 
 JOHAN EDFORS:  No, I used to do that when I was playing on the Swedish tour and also the Challenge Tour a couple years back, I had almost three months off in the wintertime and had to try to raise some money for charity.  As I said I wasn't enjoying myself on the course last year and I think I was trying a bit too hard.  So I was a bit over ambitious at the start of the year and really worked hard during tournament weeks. 
 I learned from that and after not playing for two months, I was really eager to get back into the game again and really been enjoying myself the last couple of weeks.  Last week playing Abu Dhabi and the week before, I was practising. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  What did you do for those two months if you weren't playing golf? 
 JOHAN EDFORS:  I had a couple of weeks in Sweden and then I had a month here down in Dubai with my family and my girlfriend was here, so some nice, relaxing days and doing some sight-seeing in Dubai, actually. 

 Q.  You dropped a shot on the 13th again today? 
 JOHAN EDFORS:  Yeah, the two bogeys there, but I'll improve on that tomorrow, I promise. 

 Q.  How have you tried to change things this year after what you say was a disappointing 2007? 
 JOHAN EDFORS:  Well, mostly I mean, to have fun on the course and to bring the fun side of golf back again and so trying to be a little more flexible with my practise.  I got a little too serious last year and was trying to do too much work through the tournaments.  Hopefully that will help me this year this year is more about having fun and playing golf again. 

 Q.  The year before when you had multiple wins, and won the Scottish Open was that fun? 
 JOHAN EDFORS:  I was having lots of fun then but I wanted to take my game to the next level, and I thought to do that, I had to practise even harder and really practised as hard as I ever, ever have the first four or five months of last year, and didn't get any proper results at the end of the year.  I lost energy in the middle of the summer, and I was also having a little bit of problem with my shoulder so that's partly why I decided to take almost 2 1/2 months off from tournament play. 

 Q.  You played the first two rounds with Andrew Coltart who lost his card - are you at all surprised to see him up there after he lost his card last year? 
 JOHAN EDFORS:  Last year was one year off and I wouldn't be surprised to see this year -- he's been out here for, I don't know, how many years, 16 or something like that and it was just one year off for him last year, so he's going to get his card back.  
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  Thank you very much and good luck over the weekend. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT