ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 5, 2006
Johan Edfors
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








GORDON SIMPSON:  Okay, Johan, thanks for coming down from Kingsbarns.  It's been a long day, but you must be very happy with your start considering you've won three times this year and going for number four hopefully.
JOHAN EDFORS:  Oh, yeah, definitely.  It's been a great year.  I put together a good round, nice start to this tournament.
GORDON SIMPSON:  What was the story of today's round, what was the key?
JOHAN EDFORS:  My putting was really good today.  I've been struggling a little bit lately with my putting and my short game, but today my putting was excellent.  I holed a lot of putts between six and ten feet, so that was fun.
GORDON SIMPSON:  Overall how would you assess the season?
JOHAN EDFORS:  Good.
GORDON SIMPSON:  But maybe disappointing not to make the team at The K Club?
JOHAN EDFORS:  Well, it was never part of my goal.  Of course it was a little bit disappointing, as close as I was.  But it was not a goal at the beginning of the season.  I'm really happy with my season, and I can't be sad about not getting on the Ryder Cup team.
Q.  What is it about the Scottish air? The last time we saw you here, you were winning the Scottish Open?
JOHAN EDFORS:  I don't know.  The golf course was very nice to me.  I don't know, it was just fun to be at such a great location, and here there is just so much tradition.  Walking around here at St. Andrews, it's wonderful, and it motivates me a little bit extra, I guess.
Q.  Do you like playing links golf?
JOHAN EDFORS:  I do, yeah.  I haven't played very much links golf, but I do like it.  I mean, that's where golf came from, I think, and I wish we could play a little bit more on links type courses.
Q.  When you won at Loch Lomond someone swapped shirts with you?
JOHAN EDFORS:  Yeah, I changed shirts.  I think he was a footballer.  I think he was pretty famous, so some guys came up to him.  I didn't know his name actually.  He was a footballer.
Q.  You got his shirt, did you?
JOHAN EDFORS:  Yeah, I did.
Q.  What is it about St Andrews that inspires you?
JOHAN EDFORS:  No, I mean, come up here and you see the clubhouse, and if you're down in the new clubhouse down there and you see up 18 and you know the Swilken Burn and the Bridge and everything, there's so much tradition.  I haven't actually walked around there yet, but I did that a couple years ago.  I did all the tourist stuff here, I guess.  So it's nice when you drive through here and you see the old ruins of the church up there, as well.  It just brings a lot of good memories from childhood, I think, coming here to play at St. Andrews.  It was a big dream when I was a kid watching the British Open and everything.  It's nice to play a tournament here.
GORDON SIMPSON:  What was your first experience of St. Andrews, which event?
JOHAN EDFORS:  The first time I played a tournament here was two years ago, same tournament.  But I was here probably like '87 or '89 with my parents and played a round here.  It was nice memories.
Q.  It was a holiday?
JOHAN EDFORS:  Holiday, yeah.
Q.  Did you play the Old Course?
JOHAN EDFORS:  Yeah, we did, actually.
Q.  Did you visit all the tourist areas?
JOHAN EDFORS:  Actually I did all the tourist stuff a couple years later.  I was here with two friends coming over from the States that I went to college with, and then we came here and played a round, as well.  I think that was in '95 just after Daly won it.  So then we were here for a couple days watching, having a look at the city and everything.
Q.  Did you keep a score?
JOHAN EDFORS:  Yeah, I only played one tournament round here at St. Andrews before.
Q.  When you were a young lad?
JOHAN EDFORS:  Oh, actually I played pretty good.  I can't really remember.  I think I was like a 3 handicap or something like that, and I probably shot 3  or 4 over or something.
Q.  You won't be looking for 3  or 4 over tomorrow I presume?
JOHAN EDFORS:  Yeah (laughing).
Q.  Does this tournament have a different feel to it?
JOHAN EDFORS:  Yeah, it does have a little different feel.  It's spread out on three different courses so it's not very big crowds.  I was playing with Henrik Stenson and we started talking, sometimes it seems like it's not a real tournament, it's more like you're doing a company day or something.  But actually we had a couple of great playing partners in my guys, they were scratch, and it was actually a friend of Henrik Stenson, so it was fun that we got luck of the draw together.  We had a really good time out there today.

Henrik's partner, they won last year, and he's a 2 handicapper.  They're doing pretty good.
Q.  What were the highlights today?
JOHAN EDFORS:  I made an eagle there on No. 3.  I mean, that was really good.  I birdied    I started on 10, made a couple birdies there in the beginning, made the turn in 3 under, and then I birdied No. 1, then an eagle on 3, and then I made a birdie on 5 and then a birdie on 9.
Q.  What were the shots for the eagle?
JOHAN EDFORS:  I hit a pretty good drive and a 7 iron to five feet and I holed it, pretty slick downhiller for an eagle.
Q.  What did you do on 17?
JOHAN EDFORS:  17, I hit 9 iron into that one.  It was helping there.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT