BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 13, 2006
Johan Edfors
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MICHAEL GIBBONS:  Tell us about today.
JOHAN EDFORS:  Well, I got off to a great start this morning.  I got it pretty close on 1 and 2 and made the putts for birdies there.  Then had chances for birdies on 4 and 5 as well, so a great start.

I had a bad 3 putt there on 6.  Made another birdie on 8, and missed a pretty short one on 9.  Made a good putt on 10 for birdie.

I was at 5 under on the turn and made a bogey there on 12.  My second shot was left, and I made a great up and down for birdie on 13.  Then 14, I hit a bad drive right.  Didn't hit a good shot from there to save my par.  Made another birdie on 16.  Nice birdie on 18.
Q.  what have you been doing since the British Masters?
JOHAN EDFORS:  Well, I went straight to Ireland and played there and played really well for 16 holes and then after that, I kind of went backwards.  I've had the last six weeks off now, trying to start a new season now and play well in a couple of really big events coming up.  So I'm trying to get ready for those and the game is getting back in good shape.
Q.  did you forget about golf completely for the time you were off?
JOHAN EDFORS:  For the first four weeks, I only played two rounds of golf the whole time.  Then I went down to Paris and I missed the cut there.  Last week, I did a lot of practice with my coach and on my own, as well, and it's paid off.
Q.  Inaudible?
JOHAN EDFORS:  I was really tired after that second win.  I played in Ireland, which was a really tough week condition wise, and looking back, I probably shouldn't have gone there.  I was really tired going in there.  I needed a break to be fresh for the big events coming up now.
Q.  What did you do with your time off?
JOHAN EDFORS:  I spent some time with my family back in Sweden.  It was nice to be back in Sweden, I haven't been in Sweden very much and spent time with my girlfriend and my family.  The weather has been nice and swimming and stuff, so it was good.
Q.  Can you tell us about that amazing finish from your playing partner?
JOHAN EDFORS:  He hit the ball was so nice all day.  He's getting a bit short off the tee but everything went straight at the flag.  He played really solid all day and really got himself in position on the back nine.
Q.  Did you know he was 61?
JOHAN EDFORS:  I heard after the round that's what age he is, which is amazing because he can still win this tournament.
Q.  How much further back off the tee was he compared to you
JOHAN EDFORS:  About 40 metres.
Q.  what did you make of Hoylake when you played it last Monday?
JOHAN EDFORS:  I think it is going to be  great test. I don't get to play links golf very often so I wanted to get a feel of playing the course.  It's going to be interesting.  Pretty tough to know what to do.  A lot of if holes you hit a 2 iron and 8 iron into really hard greens, it's going to be hard to stop it.  I'm not sure if it's better to hit the driver up there and take your chances of getting onto the greens from the rough.
Q.  What was the rough like?
JOHAN EDFORS:  It was pretty high but I thought it was really fair.  A lot of times the rough is really thick outside the fairway.  But it was the same all around.  You can always get it out, you can always hit a shot 130 metres, but if you're in the rough, you're not going to be able to control the ball.
Q.  Have you played here before?
JOHAN EDFORS:  I've only been there once before and  I missed the cut.  I really like the course. And I think it suits my game. The landing areas are really generous and I am usually pretty good with my driver so it sets up well for me.
Q.  Have you ever seen a better display of long iron play?
JOHAN EDFORS:  I don't think so. He was hitting everything straight at the flags on the back nine. Even with his three wood he was going straight at it. When the wind was right to left he would just cut a three wood into it to make sure it landed soft on the green.
Q.  Why have you become so good this year with your two wins?
JOHAN EDFORS:  I worked really, really hard last year with my coaches and I've been working on the right things, and now I find that on the course more and more.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT