BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2011
Johan Edfors
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOHAN EDFORS: I holed a couple of key putts, but it was tough out there. The winds were really gusty, and so really happy with 5-under. 

 Q. Take me through the one you birdied from the trees?
 JOHAN EDFORS: I played really good in the beginning and made a bogey on 9 and missed a pretty short one on 10, and that pushed my driver into the trees on 11, and somehow managed to hit a low slicer there that almost went in the hole, so hit it up to four feet and then made that one for birdie and then came up with a brilliant 4-iron on the next one and almost holed that 4-iron for a really easy three on the next one. Really made the best of those two.

 Q. You sound surprised, but you're a creative player. You come up with the shots?
 JOHAN EDFORS: I've spent a lot of time in the woods in the past, but I'm a little bit straighter now so I don't get to practise them as often.

 Q. But there are a lot of woods to be avoided here. I take it that down the years you have not avoided them nearly as much because you have not played particularly well, have you?
 JOHAN EDFORS: No, I've always struggled here but I think it's a bit easier with the new greens. I struggled on the greens the first couple of years I was here, but still, it's a really tough golf course. There's trouble left and right on almost every hole so you have to keep it in the middle of the fairway and keep hitting good iron shots, otherwise it's going to come back and bite you. 

 Q. You've seen it bite in the past with the wind, the way it affects it around the trees, but today, blustery winds, horrible rains and great sunshine?
 JOHAN EDFORS: I must have had my rain jacket off and on 15 times today, you get some really nice spells and you get the biggest gusts and pouring rains, so it was tough out there, I managed to play well the whole way and nice with two finishing birdies, as well. 

 Q. Particularly the 8th and 18th, because they are being revised once again, what are your thoughts?
 JOHAN EDFORS: So much better. 18 is a really good hole. I think if you hit a good tee shot there, you can actually go for it in 2000, which you really couldn't last year. [] I pushed my tee shot a little bit so I was knocked out by the trees, so I just had to lay it up but still made a 4 so I'm happy.

 Q. It would be texting on another day in different conditions []?
 JOHAN EDFORS: On another day, I would go for it. 

 Q. Give us your escape shots. Nose are the things that happen when you win tournaments, aren't they?
 JOHAN EDFORS: Definitely. I mean, if things are not going your way, you might be behind a tree, you don't have a shot, and now suddenly can have a shot and then pull it off and make a birdie instead of a bogey or maybe even a double-bogey. So I mean, you need a few of those breaks to win tournaments, so hopefully I can keep that going.

 Q. Good vibes for that this week?
 JOHAN EDFORS: I've been playing pretty nicely. I'm struggling a little bit with the putter. I have a new putter this week and worked really well today. If I can keep putting like I did today, I'll be really dangerous.

 Q. What did you switch to?
 JOHAN EDFORS: A different Odyssey putter and went back to my two-thumb grip, so really happy with that switch today.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT