PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 14, 2010
Johan Edfors
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Well, tell us about this round today, because that's exceptional scoring, isn't it?   
 JOHAN EDFORS: Yeah, I mean, it was really up for grabs, the course, today. Barely no wind and it's playing really soft. Played decent on the front nine, I had a little slow start. I had a couple good chances that I missed but then after that, I holed really every chance I got there, and the putting was just fantastic. I didn't hit it all that close actually today but I holed a lot of 15-, 20-footers for birdie.   
 So it was fun out there.  
  
  Q. Looked like you were going to hole a monster at the last, as well?  
 JOHAN EDFORS: Yeah, closing hole, just as long a putt for eagle on 17, as well. So I with as happy with the 2-putt I have to say.  
  
  Q. You were looking for that 59 at the Vivendi.   
 JOHAN EDFORS: Yeah, definitely, big difference is I'm starting to roll the putter a lot better and starting to see a few lines. Takes such a big pressure off of both your long game and your short game when you're putting nicely, because I know if I get within 20 feet, it's a really good chance. You can play conservatively when you have to and aggressive when it's a little bit easier.   
 So it's just a huge difference to have a good putter in the bag.   
  
  Q. I know that 59 was on at the Vivendi, but is there any chance here? We've had 61,62 in the past?  
 JOHAN EDFORS: Oh, definitely. Could have a chance here. If the wind stays down, this is one of the courses you can shoot, especially now when the rough is down, as well. So without wind, the 59 is possible.  
  
  Q. Are you conscious of that, not the 59 as such but the needing to shoot low because everybody is going to have a raft of birdies?  
 JOHAN EDFORS: Definitely. I holed a nice one on the second for a birdie and missed short ones on 3 and 4 and holed a good one on 5. So feels like you really have to shoot -- I said to a friend yesterday, I mean, 25-under, that's my target for the week, and looking at it right now, if the wind stays down, it's easily going to be there I think.   
  
  Q. I know it's fading into the distance, when we last spoke you were looking forward to Ryder Cup, how did you watch?  
 JOHAN EDFORS: At home in Sweden. I was going to watch it on the Saturday there, but my friends threw me a bachelor party, so I missed that day. But I saw a little bit on Monday before going to Scotland.   
  
  Q. Threw you a bachelor party? So you're getting married, too?  
 JOHAN EDFORS: I'm getting married in December, so I'm looking forward to that.  
  
  Q. Where?   
 JOHAN EDFORS: Back home in Sweden on the 4th of December, so right after Dubai.   
  
  Q. Making an honest man of you?  
 JOHAN EDFORS: Yeah, I'm trying.  
  
  Q. What was the score in Vivendi you had again that you were talking about?  
 JOHAN EDFORS: I had a 61 there in the one round.   
  
  Q. So you were wearing them in the first round?  
 JOHAN EDFORS: Yeah, lucky trousers, I should wear them all week.  
  
  Q. You said your putting has been coming on, have you done anything in particular to do that?   
 JOHAN EDFORS: I've been working on putting for quite a long time but I felt like it's been pretty close. I've been hitting some nice putts but they haven't really seen the lines. If I can't see the line, I get a little bit cautious in the putting, as well. So just seeing the line really nicely right now and I changed putter, as well, Paris and last week in Scotland, I wouldn't have made the cut with the way I was playing really. But my putting was really good and I finished 11th.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT