AMERICAN CENTURY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2015
Eric Gagne
Josh Scobee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







THE MODERATOR:   We've got Josh Scobee and Eric Gagne in the media room.   Josh, a couple of quick things before we turn it over to the media.   You had a five‑point lead going into today.   How was your comfort level when you went to bed last night.
  JOSH SCOBEE:   It was great.   I felt fine last night.   I had a good night's sleep.   I came out prepared, ready for today.   I wasn't nervous.
  Just didn't go exactly the way I wanted.   I had 22 points today, which if you told me I'd score 22 points and lose by three points, or how many however I lost by, two or three, I would have said you're crazy.   But Mark played amazing today.
Q.   You've seen these guys play.   So you knew there was danger?
  JOSH SCOBEE:   I played with Eric yesterday.   I played with Mark quite a few times.   So I knew that it was going to take more than what I was going to plan on scoring. 
  But I'm not even upset about it, because if you told me before the week that I was going to score 79 points, I would have said I'll take it.   But obviously it didn't take that to win.
Q.   Eric, you charged late.   Did you think you had a shot to do the whole thing?
  ERIC GAGNE:   Yeah, you never know, in a way the last three, four holes are pretty reachable for me.   And I think anything can happen.   The water on the left on 18, you can always‑‑ but I think Mark was just so locked.   I don't think there was anything we could have done. 
  I mean, that lead‑‑ I don't know what he shot, but it felt like 18‑under.   He was making everything.   And it was beautiful to watch.   You didn't lose it.   Mark won that one, I think.   It's pretty cool to watch.
  JOSH SCOBEE:   Yup.
Q.   Josh, last year you weren't in contention, but what made the difference for you this year to be right in there and have a chance to win today?
  JOSH SCOBEE:   Last year I got in one practice round beforehand, and I'm the type of golfer that likes to know green complexes and to feel comfortable with approach shots. 
  And so I didn't feel comfortable last year.   The first round it was just kind of hit and hope.   And after that I just didn't play well. 
  But this year we did a lot of, not research, but just practice beforehand this week, getting ready for it and trying to get a more comfortable feel with the greens.   So that was the big difference.
  And having a better game plan this year‑‑ not making too many big mistakes. 
Q.   Josh, you looked like you lost the lead there starting the back nine.   And No. 11, where you guys had to wait a long time before you hit your drive, and then you went into the bushes, and Eric hit a great shot, was on, made a long putt.   Do you think that was the turning point for you? 
  JOSH SCOBEE:   That was a pretty good turning point for Mark and I because I ended up with bogey there.   He had birdie, so that was a big three‑point swing.   And that ends up being the difference in it.   I'm not going to blame it on waiting like that.   You just have to understand that that's just how this tournament is.
  You have to wait and sometimes you have to force yourself to walk a little bit slower so you're not waiting on the next tee.   But I just happened to pull that ball.   It was nothing other than that.
Q.   Josh, this is your second tournament?
  JOSH SCOBEE:   Yes.
Q.   Eric? 
  ERIC GAGNE:   Third, I think.   If I remember right.
Q.   Do you guys recognize or do you feel‑‑ can you feel that or do you think that there's a changing of the guard with Rick obviously is getting older, but he's won seven times, and Billy Joe four and Mark twice.   And now these guys weren't in contention today.   Do you feel there's a changing of the guard?
  ERIC GAGNE:   I mean, everything changes all the time.   I think for me it's just so cool just to be here, just to have the chance to be here and these guys have won seven, eight times, that's incredible.   And they're not as young anymore, of course.   And I think the course for me, I'm younger.   I can hit it longer, it's a little bit easier I think.   I think for them you got 70‑some points, Mark, I think.   They're really good.   They know the course a lot.   They can really putt.   They have really good short games. 
  I think this week we just scored a lot.   I shot 67 two days in a row and I didn't finish [sic] second.   And I think it was just a really good year. 
  I think Mark played amazing.   Josh played amazing.   I played good.   And I think never know any year ‑‑ there's a lot more better players, I think, than it used to be.   But I think it's up for grabs.   Call them old, experienced is a better word, I think.
Q.   Josh, changing of the guard mentality. 
  JOSH SCOBEE:   Not necessarily.   Rhoden is still capable of winning this tournament at any point.   But Eric is right.   Obviously when you get older you're not going to hit the ball as far, especially when you get up your 50s and 60s.   But there's a lot of guys now, some of the younger guys that are newer to this tournament that can hit the ball a long way and really overpower this course from the tees that we play and take advantage of the long game that we have. 
  And it will be something to look forward to in the future.   And the half a dozen to dozen guys that can really contend here.
Q.   Have you guys ever seen‑‑ Mulder seemed to lay back and hit less club off the tee than you guys, but he seemed to be throwing darts most of the day inside five or six feet.   Have you ever seen a performance like that?
  JOSH SCOBEE:   No, not in a tournament.   Absolutely not.   It was impressive to watch, because he and I, like I said, we're trying to overpower the course.   And Mark would lay back and stick it closer. 
  And sometimes that's a good strategy, because you're the first person hitting out of the fairway and you can throw one in there and put some pressure on the other two.   And whether or not that was his strategy, it obviously worked.   And maybe it's something that we could possibly do in the future. 
  But for the most part I'll just stick to my game and see what happens.
  THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT