BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 23, 2010
Rhys Davies
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   RHYS DAVIES: A little frustrating, we had an incident last night where we were on the 17th green and looked like the t was about to go and Rick who I was playing with putted out on 17 and it was about to run up to the last and hit off, because if we hit off, we could finish, but the hooter went as he was running up to the tee. We had to come back at 7:00 this morning.   
  
  Q. Which means an incredibly early alarm call to play one hole and do nothing for the rest of the day?  
 RHYS DAVIES: Yeah, that's pretty accurate. We may get one or two holes in this evening, we're told, but can't be sure. So, yeah, just got to wait around to see. Maybe go back to bed hopefully.   
  
  Q. Some score, particularly to hold it together over what was a long day?  
 RHYS DAVIES: Yeah, it was a long day. It did take a long type, but you know, same for everybody, and I suppose in a way we don't have to play 36 holes today so, that might be a bonus. But having said that, no, I switched off when I wasn't playing and when I got out there, I felt pretty fresh and ready so I think that was important.   
  
  Q. You could genuinely switch off that little bit without too much hassle.   
 RHYS DAVIES: Yeah, not too bad. I had a little sleep actually in the locker room. Yeah, a good chat with some of the boys, nothing too strenuous and then just wait for the fog to go. You never know what it's going to do or how it's going but it's the same for the rest.   
  
  Q. Were you forced to play any shots blind?   
 RHYS DAVIES: No, was perfectly fine. When we went back out, it was good playing conditions to be honest. It was a surprise we went off a second time, because we could see the green on the par 3. But obviously it was on the other parts of the course and I think that was frustrate being for some of the officials.  
  
  Q. The course is in amazingly good condition, isn't it, considering the rain?  
 RHYS DAVIES: Yeah, in advance, I haven't really seen much rain since I've been here thank goodness, but yeah, it is in great shape. The fairways and greens are immaculate and yeah, full credit to all the staff who put a top effort into getting it ready.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT