PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 14, 2011
Rhys Davies
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Well played today, 67, looked pretty good for me out there; how did it feel for you?   
 RHYS DAVIES: It felt good as well. I probably played a little bit better yesterday if I'm honest, but hung in there really when I wasn't hitting it so well and reaped some rewards later on in the round and it was good.  
  
  Q. We have spoken about this course being a bomber's golf course, and I would not describe you as a bomber; I would put you more as a player who whacks it down the middle and gets on the green and rolls your potato for fun. Do you feel as though it's a bomber golf course, or do you think this golf course sets up well for you?   
 RHYS DAVIES: I think most golf courses set up well for me. I don't analyse them too much. I mean, obviously length is an advantage whatever course you play, but no different this one: If you hit the ball in the fairway, you have a much better lie.   
 The rough is quite thick in places and you can control your spin and control your wedge shots into the greens. So hitting in the fairway, making putts is what it's about out here.  
  
  Q. Looks like a low scoring week, about 24, what do you do mentally tonight to sort of achieve a very, very low golf score this weekend?   
 RHYS DAVIES: You just go out there and I know I've got 36 holes to play and there's 36 opportunities to make a birdie. My philosophy doesn't change much from course to course. I would say that is pretty much my philosophy every week. So although this might be rewarding a few more birdies, then you've still got to go out there and get them, and there's 36 chances to do that.  
  
  Q. So when you beat France tomorrow and we beat the All Blacks and we beat you in the final, will you be depressed?  
 RHYS DAVIES: I think you're getting ahead of yourself, Radar. I'm focussed on the French tomorrow. I think you should do the same.  
  
  Q. When was the last time you shot a good low round like that?  
 RHYS DAVIES: Yesterday.   
  
  Q. More of the same today?   
 RHYS DAVIES: Yeah, probably wasn't quite as good if I'm honest. Especially early on I was a little bit scrappy but I really hung in there quite well. I had a good mind-set from the off, and maintained it throughout the day. I hit a few loose shots but generally I kept the ball pretty much in play and made quite a few birdies. That was good.  
  
  Q. When you did bogey, you bounced back immediately.   
 RHYS DAVIES: I think that shows my mind was in a good place. I didn't get flustered or bothered by a bogey. Although you've got to try to keep going forwards on this course, golf is still tough and you are still going to make mistakes from time to time. So I just accepted that and tried to move on and birdie the next hole.  
  
  Q. Did it make difference playing in the morning than the slight wind of the afternoon?  
 RHYS DAVIES: If anything, especially towards the end it was a tiny bit firmer but there was less wind; so that made it probably a little shorter and easier to hit a lot of the fairways.   
 But it was, I wouldn't say -- I would say the course is getting firmer, which it's hard to say how it will play over the weekend. But you might find that if you get a bit of wind, and the hot weather continues to dry out, it will be a little bit tougher.  
  
  Q. And the greens a bit more bounce on them, faster putts?   
 RHYS DAVIES: Yeah, that's right. There were some quick putts on my last half a dozen holes. I kept having downhill, downgrain putts, and that was noticeable. But the greens are rolling beautifully, so no reason why you can't knock them in.  
  
  Q. So now you can have a lazy start and a nice early viewing in front of the TV?  
 RHYS DAVIES: Yeah, that's right. Hopefully the Tour won't send us off too early tomorrow. But it's good motivation, try and get in, get some birdies under the belt, and wake up and watch the rugby tomorrow.  
  
  Q. You told us yesterday, but what are your thoughts on the rugby?   
 RHYS DAVIES: I think we have a great chance. We have a really tough team to play against, there's no doubt about it. I think the French are quite unpredictable. I think Thomas Levet was trying to tell me how dominant they were earlier, but I'm having none of it. I back my boys and I think they are great stuff. They have a really great team chemistry going it seems, and they are playing some really good rugby. So, yeah, we are fully confident on the weekend, turn them over tomorrow.  
  
  Q. A good bit of rivalry, you mentioned Thomas Levet, and Gregory Havret looking forward to it.   
 RHYS DAVIES: I haven't seen Greg but Thomas was playing behind me. So I saw him in the morning, and we are counting the hours down, put it that way.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT