PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 13, 2011
Rhys Davies
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How was it?  
 RHYS DAVIES: Good fun, yeah. A lot of birdies in our group. Just a case of tagging along and making as many putts as you can.   
  
  Q. And then exceeding them?  
 RHYS DAVIES: I guess in the end, yeah. Sneaky little eagle at the last, on 17 rather, managed that. I hit a decent tee shot, not my best, but just up the list side and had a very good yardage for a 3-wood.   
 Aimed it to the middle of the green and just drifted just to the right and went straight on the flag and managed to hole about a 25-footer coming back. It was a good three to make there.   
  
  Q. And this is the lowest round for how long?   
 RHYS DAVIES: I shot 64 at Kingsbarns two weeks ago.   
  
  Q. Which is superb.   
 RHYS DAVIES: So actually only a week ago.   
  
  Q. So it's been coming obviously.   
 RHYS DAVIES: I've been playing well for a while. I think my results have been quite consistent if not spectacular, and yeah, just keep doing what I'm doing, playing really good golf, I know I am, and if I keep shooting scores like that, I can hopefully contend sooner or later.  
  
  Q. There was a period where you were contending once again and you fell back into the shadows for a little while?  
 RHYS DAVIES: Perhaps a little bit. But like I said I've had quite a few finishes where I've been sort of Top-25 and things like that, which don't necessarily put you in the massive limelight.   
 But they are taken over as good performances so I was actually quite positive and in my evaluation of my play, at times, I wasn't always as positive as I would like but for the most part I was -- I was very realistic in my performance.  
  
  Q. Do you tell yourself kick on, because you have to play soon, Dubai World Championship to secure?  
 RHYS DAVIES: No, that doesn't come into it at all. I'm here to win a golf tournament and if I do, that I think I'll get to Dubai.  
  
  Q. To win this one, you have to shoot low every day?  
 RHYS DAVIES: A course like this, it depends a lot on the wind. We had a good bit for most of the round but it did die at the end. But having said that there are a lot of birdie opportunities, the greens roll well, the fairways are in fantastic shape and you can hit a lot of short irons out there. So, yeah, definitely put the PEDAL down and keep going.   
 We play a lot of tough courses on Tour, and this has still got some very challenging holes out there but you do get highly rewarded for good shots. And because of that, then I think the guys can capitalise and the weather is a big asset at that, too.   
  
  Q. Are you excited about the Rugby World Cup on Saturday?  
 RHYS DAVIES: Very excited. I think Wales have played some really good rugby. They are lucky to be undefeated, only one point defeat, or we'd have a perfect record now. The boys are playing great stuff, really seem to have a great team chemistry going and I don't see why we can't beat France on Saturday.  
  
  Q. Such an integral part of Wales, and has not been the highest level of late, and you can now feel it coming again?  
 RHYS DAVIES: Definitely. I think it's been all right in the last few years. We won the Six Nations a couple of times and definitely had a lull in the 90s and early 2000s but it's been on the way up all the time.   
 And we have had some really good young players come through and not only come through, but perform really well on the big stage immediately, and because of that, then we have had some success in this tournament. I think this is a really strong team and there's no reason why you can't go all the way.  
  
  Q. But this has given you a good start so hopefully you'll have a late tee time on Saturday and be in front a television?  
 RHYS DAVIES: Yeah, you're right, try to get the leading groups on Saturday, and watch the game on Saturday morning.   
  
  Q. And then the mere challenge of the All Blacks in the final the following week?  
 RHYS DAVIES: I think that's one step ahead. We have a tough game against the French. I think they are very unpredictable so hopefully we can overcome them, play some good, smart rugby and then whether it's Australia or New Zealand, well, we'll take either.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT