THE CELTIC MANOR WALES OPEN
June 6, 2010
Rhys Davies
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Course record 62 in front of your home fans, an incredible round of golf to watch, tell us what it was like to compile?  
 RHYS DAVIES: It was exactly that. Enjoyed every second of it. I went out this morning very relaxed. I tried to push a little too hard yesterday and I was mindful of that, and so I went out today, really relaxed attitude and was going to accept anything that came my way and felt quite comfortable as a result I think. But no, I really enjoyed it obviously.  
  
  Q. You had a spell where you were 10-under par for 12 holes. What are you thinking and feeling at that stage?  
 RHYS DAVIES: Go 11-under. Go, I didn't realise that, but the difficult thing on the finish was it was straight into the wind and 16 and 17 are playing so long that they were tough pars, let alone birdies.   
 Then I made eagle on 15, I really wanted to push for another one on 16, but it was just not practical to go for it. Unfortunately I made a bogey, but I tied my best to do the last two and it just didn't quite happen.  
  
  Q. You told us earlier in the week you worked really hard on staying in the present, and you wouldn't worry about winning until it's done; do you know that 59 was on possibly?  
 RHYS DAVIES: I put it aside very quickly, so yes and no to that answer. I knew the wind was picking up a little bit; and therefore, if Graeme wasn't continuing to make birdies, then, you know, I adjust my strategy accordingly so I continued to make birdies and kept my head down and tried to do the same.  
  
  Q. You posted 12-under as a clubhouse target, any chance of Graeme making mistakes coming in?   
 RHYS DAVIES: It's possible. I mean, the holes are tricky enough. The last three are playing tough. 18 is not so bad, but 16 and 17, you've got to hit -- you've got to hit some good shots to make pars on those holes, so it's not over yet.   
 Would I expect him to mess up? No, because he's a world-class player, but it's not quite over yet.  
  
  Q. What will you do now?   
 RHYS DAVIES: Just chill out in the clubhouse and probably get something to eat. Missed lunch today so I'll get something down me. I'll just wait. I'm not too stressed out about anything. I'll just chill out and see what happens.   
  
  Q. Quite a reception in the players' lounge, they were whooping and hollering and could not believe what you were doing. Great playing. Well done.   
 RHYS DAVIES: Thank you. It was great.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT