THE CELTIC MANOR WALES OPEN
June 4, 2010
Rhys Davies
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Not the morning you would have hoped for. 
 RHYS DAVIES: Probably not, but I finished with two birdies, so that's got to be a good sign. 
 No, I wasn't at my best today, definitely not the case, but really pleased with the way I hung in there. I was a bit all over the shot to start with and couldn't quite find my rhythm. I stuck in there; I had a lot of good putts that didn't go in and it really wasn't my day. 
 But to get two birdies back in the end was pleasing, and hopefully it will keep me in with a shout come the next to days.

 Q. Can you put your start down to anything in particular?
 RHYS DAVIES: I felt quite tired this morning. There's been quite a lot of golf of late, and although it's especially exciting to play The Wales Open, it's another early morning call. But I'm learning from that and I got into it quickly. Just unfortunately it took a little while this morning.

 Q. And you talked about being in the now and thinking about positives; you overcame that setback and went on a little bit of a run?
 RHYS DAVIES: Yeah, that's right. Yeah, I made a very good birdie on 13. That was important, just to steady things, and a good par save on 14. Although I was a little scrappy around the turn, I played quite nicely on the incoming holes. Gave myself two really good chances on the last two and made them both. They could be quite important come the end of the week. 

 Q. They certainly make your score look better than it may have been at the start of the round, yeah, perhaps. 
 RHYS DAVIES: Yeah, perhaps. I mean, I started 6, 6. I laughed last night, I had not made a bogey in 36 holes before today, and unfortunately something was going to give. I wasn't afraid of it. I just was ready to make birdies in return. Unfortunately didn't get as many as I would like and I made a few errors, but you know, golf comes in stages, and as I say, I just played the last round of Madrid and the first round this week, and I had -- I was bogey-free. I just wasn't today, and as I said, doesn't always correlate to the specific round you're playing.

 Q. You've had some crazy scores coming in, 11 and 8; are the pins in some dodgy positions today? 
 RHYS DAVIES: You'd never say dodgy. There are some tough pins. There's a few quite close to the water edge certainly on the front nine. Yeah, there's some difficult positions, but that's to be expected. The greens have got a little cornersome, which you can hide the pins away, and also, the greens are getting a little bit firmer, although they are holding a shot nicely. It just means that if you are in a position, then it's that much more difficult to get it close. 

 Q. So just recovery and recuperation now then?
 RHYS DAVIES: That's right. I might do a little practise this afternoon because I really haven't done a whole lot of practise over the last couple of weeks, but not working on anything in particular. Just finding my rhythm back and getting ready for a good weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT