NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP: FIRST ROUND - RUTGERS VS CLEMSON
March 19, 2021
Steve Pikiell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
  Rutgers 60, Clemson 56
 STEVE PIKIELL:   First I'd just like to quickly mention our radio announcer, Coach Joe Boylan.  Our prayers are with him.  He's in the hospital.  We're thinking about you, coach.  We miss you on the radio.  We had a good game for you today.  I hope you got to enjoy it.  But our prayers are with you.  Speedy recovery.
 Obviously excited about the outcome of the game.  We respect Clemson a great deal.  Brad is one of the best coaches in the country.  We knew it would be one of these games.  They defend at an elite level.  I really liked our poise down the stretch.
 Caleb McConnell came off the bench, did some great things.  Everybody that checked into the game, again, do some unbelievable things.  Especially Brandin Knight had the scout for this game, my assistant coach, he does a great job.  Tip of the hat to the prep that was done for this game.
 Excited for Rutgers Nation.  Excited to get to live another 40 minutes.  We're looking forward to the next huge challenge, which is Coach Sampson and Houston.
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions.
 Q. What are you most proud of when you look back at this ballgame?  There were ebbs and flows throughout.
 STEVE PIKIELL:   Yeah, we knew it would be that kind of game.  Watching all the tapes, that's how they play.  We out-rebounded them, that was a huge key for us.  In the second half we really settled down, didn't turn the basketball over.  It was another huge key.
 We figured out a way to win.  Hold a team to 56 points.  Our defense and rebounding stepped up, and they we made some really big and timely baskets.  Four guys in double figures.  It was a good thing we moved the ball in the second half, got guys some open looks.
 Again, excited.  You survive and advance in these situations.
 Q. What was your message to the team afterwards?
 STEVE PIKIELL:   Yeah, I mean, just proud of them.  We got another game coming up here.  We don't have a lot of time.  Enjoy it for a little bit, then we'll get ready and prep for the next one.
 But certainly for the first time these guys being on this stage, they were locked in from the beginning.  We've had great practices this whole week.  I like how they played with that swagger.  Jacob, Ron, Caleb, all those guys, Myles had some big rebounds for us.  All the guys that came in, too.  Paul always does what he does.  Montez always gives us great energy.  We're going to need them all.  We got a big one coming up with a quick turnaround.
 Q. Can you summarize what this moment is like for you and everyone in the program?
 STEVE PIKIELL:   It was great.  Rutgers Nation came out, whatever tickets were available.  They were loud.  That helps.  Our guys are excited to have some fans.  It's been a long year with no fans, so it was great.  Hopefully we can get some more out here in the next couple days.
 But big step for our program to win a game against a really good team in the ACC, a well-coached club that really, really are elite defenders, really good players.  Simms is a problem, as you could see tonight.  I thought we did a good job in the second half of settling down with him.  But good team win.
 Q. Is it sort of fitting after waiting that long for an NCAA tournament game that it would be this type of game?  What was it like for you watching the final seconds?
 STEVE PIKIELL:   Yeah, I thought the last 3:50 I think we held them to one point.  I told guys coming out of that timeout, we have enough points to win, you just got to hold on and keep defending.  Geo makes obviously a big play.  Made a big out-of-bounds under play, too, where hit the three.  Everyone made some big plays, big rebounds, kept balls alive.  I liked our energy the whole time.
 They stuck together even when things weren't going our way.  They're a good group.  They're resilient.  We've been through a lot.  It's been a two-year journey, too.  I like the toughness.  We toughed out a win, old fashion, keep them to 56 points is a really good sign.
 Q. You mentioned Caleb.  How big was it to have this type of night, make some of the plays he did, especially in a game like this?
 STEVE PIKIELL:   I mean, huge.  He came in, he had great energy right off the bat.  I mean, to get 13 points and 10 rebounds, three assists, too, a steal.  I mean, very involved.
 He's a really good defender, too.  Those are his offensive numbers.  I know when I go through the tape, the defense that he played, too, you'll really see some more things.
 Really excited about his minutes.  All the guys.  Paul chipped in, hit some big threes for us.  They all did great things.  But to have a double-double on this stage, I know he played great defense, because you can count on him for that every night.  Tip of the hat to Caleb.
 Q. You had losing seasons each of your first three years here, then a 20-win season last year, the tournament canceled because of COVID.  Was there a point in the past where you were worried tonight would never happen?  Was there a point in the past that you knew tonight would happen?
 STEVE PIKIELL:   I was always confident that it would happen.  Last year it was supposed to happen.  Obviously because of COVID, it cut our season short.  But we had to fight back this year and prove it again.  Our guys did.
 I know they weren't happy and satisfied just being here.  I know they want to keep playing.  They kind of took that approach.  Again, great week of practice, great energy before the game.  Even at halftime when we were down, they stayed the course, got rewarded, so...
 Excited for them.  And they're excited.  It's a resilient group.
 Q. The fact that those last four minutes, it was all about Geo scores your last five points, defense holding them to one point, two things that have been the mainstays of your team for the last two years.
 STEVE PIKIELL:   We made some timely baskets, too.  Important.  In a game like this, too, I looked at all their scores.  My God, if you go through the scores, 38 points, they give up 40 points, 41.  They've beaten some elite teams.  When I watched them beat Alabama, Purdue, Maryland, hold those teams to season lows, I knew we were facing an elite defensive team.  I said to our group we can win games by scoring well.  We've had to win games all kinds of different ways this year.
 I have confidence in our defense.  I knew rebounding would be a huge key, if we were able to be plus nine on the glass.  That was huge for us.  But we can win games in the 60s, too.  We don't mind that.  They dictate the tempo, too.  They get you running late-clock situations because their defense is so good.  We were able to do the same thing to them.
 But timely baskets down the end.  We executed and got some good looks.  Even the ones we didn't make I thought were the looks we wanted, although they made it difficult for us, for sure.
 Q. The last stretch where Myles hobbled out, Ron had to pick up Simms on that possession, the job he did.  How did the team keep their composure when they had to face adversity like that?
 STEVE PIKIELL:   We had adversity all year long, so I was glad they responded.  Myles has been in foul trouble, too.  We've been in that situation before.
 Ron can guard multiple players.  We were confident that he did.  I just wanted to have another ball handler in the game, too, with Paul.  Was able to make those adjustments.  Those guys are big enough and strong enough to guard forwards if they have to.  Thought Ron did a pretty good job.  The guy stayed the course, got a couple big stops down the stretch.
 Q. Every game is like this in the Big Ten.  Do you feel you're equipped for this type of bowl game because of the character your club has developed and the experience of these nail-biters?
 STEVE PIKIELL:   Yeah, we've been in them before.  We've had our backs against the wall.  We've had to win games on the road or wherever it may be.  We are experienced.  Even our younger players have played and logged a lot of minutes.
 When we stay focused and are together, we can do some good things.  Excited we get to play another day.  Look forward to the next challenge.  That's Houston.
 Q. Really fresh off this win, but any thoughts on Houston?
 STEVE PIKIELL:   They're really good.  I mean, obviously they're a 2 seed.  They got a great Hall of Fame caliber coach.  We'll get to work.  My assistants have done an unbelievable job.  Huge challenge for us.  Talented team.  Player of the Year, Defensive Player of the Year, most improved player.  I think they got every single award in that conference.
 Really good, big challenge for us.
 Q. Jacob Young, he was the only player on this team who had past tournament experience.  He came through when the guys really needed something.  How important was that experience tonight?
 STEVE PIKIELL:   Yeah, he's tough.  He likes these kind of games, too, first and foremost.  I love the job he did in the second half.  He settled down, didn't have any turnovers.  He's really good defensively.  He brings a swagger to our team, too.  He's an elite defensive guard.  He's one of the fastest guys in the country.
 Yeah, his experience, his work ethic, he's in the gym all the time.  And it paid off.  He shot the ball really well tonight.  Making three threes was really huge for us.  But he's continuing to have a really good senior year.
 Q. Is Myles okay?  Looked like he got banged up a little bit.
 STEVE PIKIELL:   Yeah, we'll figure that out.  He's with Rich right now.  I don't have any updates on him.  Yeah, he came out of the game.  Couldn't finish the game.  We'll figure that out and hopefully he'll be okay.
 Q. In the media notes it said that Geo is known for his late-game heroics.  He's done that all season.  At this point does it just kind of become expected?
 STEVE PIKIELL:   I mean, he's done it a lot throughout his whole career.  Even his freshman year on, he's made big plays for us, big baskets.  He's very confident.  We're confident in him, too.  I think the players are confident.
 But he can also make the right pass, too.  When you have the ball in his hands, good things can happen.  He certainly never shies away from taking a big one.  Thankful to have a guy like that.  He's made a lot of them for us.
 THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, coach.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT