LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 15, 2016
Su Hyun Oh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Congratulations on your hole in one.  Walk us through it and the club you used and the yardage.  
SU HYUN OH: I still work in meters, so it was like 140 meters to the pin.  We weren't sure whether to pitch it with a good 7 or 8 because that green has been releasing so much.  We just thought we would hit a really good 8 and just go a little bit right and see what happens.   
I hit it really good.  It took a bounce left, which I didn't know it was going to do.  Yeah, it took a bounce left.  I was like, Oh, it looks pretty good.  Then there was just like a massive roar.  Not massive, but there were a few people around.   
Yeah, we couldn't quite see because it wasn't very clear today, but by the sound of it I was like -- I celebrated, then after I was like, Well, I hope it went in now, because would've been kind of awkward if it wasn't.   
Yeah, went in.   
 Q.  Did you have a good feeling coming up to the tee on that hole?  
SU HYUN OH: No, because I just missed like an 11-foot putt for birdie.  I didn't have a great feeling, but, yeah, but I hit it really good.   
 Q.  How many holes in ones have you had in your career?  
SU HYUN OH: This is my first one as a professional in a professional tournament.  I think I've had five or six.  This is my sixth one, I think.  Yeah.   
But it's been a while since I've had one, like five years.   
 Q.  Overall how have you been feeling this tournament?  Playing in Korea, is it any different than some of the other tournaments on the Asian swing this year?  
SU HYUN OH: I've actually never played golf in Korea, so this is my very first time playing -- first time to a golf course actually in Korea.   
So that was a little different.  I think on the first day I was a little nervous and I wasn't sure what to expect so I didn't play very good.  Now I feel pretty good.   
 Q.  How do you think the golf courses and tournaments in Korea are different from other countries or elsewhere?  What's unique about it, the energy of the fan?  
SU HYUN OH: Oh, yeah, I mean, the energy of the fans is very different.  The atmosphere is great.  There are a lot people around.  Yeah, that's very different to all the other events I've played.   
Yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT