UL INTERNATIONAL CROWN
July 21, 2016
Su Hyun Oh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I guess it's your first UL International Crown.  Talk about the experience today and playing with Webby?
SU OH: Yeah, Webby is the veteran all the time.  We teed off first, and I teed off first, and I didn't know how much like -- it was really different because we have to be there 15 minutes before, and then you kind of -- they raise the flag.  Usually if we're on the tee, we get on the tee and tee it up and go, but it was a bit different.  It was pretty cool, though.  It was like really -- like a surreal moment, I guess.  And Webby just knew what she was doing on the golf course, as normal.  I think she knew how to play match play.  I didn't have a good day out there, so she pretty much did a lot of the work.  I think I hit a few good shots but not too many.
It was a rough day out there, but it's all a good experience.  When she was doing match play, even if I was further out and she had a putt to put the pressure on the other two, then she knew what to do from there.  Like she would go first and she would hole the putt, so she would actually execute it.  Yeah, that was something she knew.
Q. Now that you have a round and a match under your belt, do you have a little bit more confidence going into the next two days?
SU OH: Yeah, I think we are going to come back stronger.  I don't know if it's out yet, but we've changed the teams, pairings.  Obviously we didn't get any points today, so something different tomorrow.  We're going to come back stronger.
Q. Going back to the first tee, I know you said it was a little bit different, but what emotions were going through your mind when you see the Australian flag being raised, the anthem being played?  How exciting was that for you?
SU OH: Well, I mean, it was kind of like you hit a bad shot but then it's not really like your bad shot.  Like the whole country is like, you're representing the entire country.  That was a little bit more pressure, I think, a bit more nerves.  But always a first time for everything, so that was a very good experience.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT