NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: NUGGETS v LAKERS
May 28, 2009
Kenyon Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   KENYON MARTIN: Staying in his lane. That's what I'm focusing on.  
  
  Q. Can you continue to double Kobe when everybody else is contributing?  
 KENYON MARTIN: We've definitely got to make it difficult. Score a lot of points in this series so far in the game. So kind of went our way a little bit, I guess. We have to do what we have to do. He scored a lot of points, both in our favor, when he doesn't, they seem to win.   
 But it's a difficult thing but you gotta adjust.  
  
  Q. What does being home do for you guys?  
 KENYON MARTIN: Well, I think it kind of relaxes us a little bit, just going home, home court. Just trying to relax with everybody and get your fans behind you. We gotta come out with that effort. These guys are going to try to close it out. We know that. But we're not going to let that happen.   
 Start the game, I think it changes throughout the game. But we should do our best on the fly. I know it's easier said than done at times. But certainly capable of doing it as in the past.  
  
  Q. Doesn't matter how good the game is officiated, just hard work?  
 KENYON MARTIN: Say it again.  
  
  Q. It's not really a matter of how the game's going to be officiated; it's how you guys do on your execution?  
 KENYON MARTIN: Still gotta put the ball in the basket and get stops, ultimately. But you just gotta go out and play, come out and bring your A game and get behind it 110 percent. Whatever the outcome is you can live with.  
  
  Q. Your backs are up against the wall in this case?  
 KENYON MARTIN: Yeah. Gotta come out swinging. Nothing more, nothing less. We know we can beat this team. We feel we're better than this team. We didn't do that as times. It's a game in front of us that we can go get. And it's the task at home. Go home and get the win and see what happens in 7.  
  
  Q. Have you guys been able to be as physical as you were in New Orleans and the Dallas series?  
 KENYON MARTIN: At times. At times. These games are different. Just gotta go out and play.  
  
  Q. The officiating, in your estimation, huge differences?  
 KENYON MARTIN: I'm not going to get caught up in the way they call the games and all that. Just gotta go out and play basketball.  
  
  Q. Is it better at home than --  
 KENYON MARTIN: It goes both ways. I'm not going to get caught up in going back and forth the way the game is getting called because other people complain and all that. I'm just going to go out and play basketball.  
  
  Q. How do you get Chauncey untrapped in the fourth quarter?   
 KENYON MARTIN: Just gotta do a better job get moving, throw better screens for him, a couple sets for him. Collective effort. He's a point guard but he still needs help getting those guys from the line, putting two or three guys around him at all times.   
  
  Q. I know he wants to be a little unselfish and facilitate a lot in the fourth quarter, but are there points in time where he just needs to --  
 KENYON MARTIN: Needs to be aggressive. We'll definitely be at our best. We all know that. But I'm saying at times they've been doing a decent job getting the ball out of his hands because they know that. So gotta take up the effort. We gotta do a better job as well.  
  
  Q. I know you don't want to speak directly on the officiating --  
 KENYON MARTIN: I'm done talking about it.  
  
  Q. Somebody in your locker room made a pretty serious allegation that basically the Lakers bought that game and fines and trying to affect the series?  
 KENYON MARTIN: I don't know, man. Honestly, I'm not going to keep going back and forth with this thing, man. It's basketball. I'm not going to get caught up in talking about who is calling what, who is not calling this. Still gotta go out and play.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT