NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: NUGGETS v LAKERS
May 26, 2009
Kenyon Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Can you talk about tomorrow night?
 KENYON MARTIN: We'll be playing aggressive. We just came out with a different mindset that we need to do a better job on the glass, and we did. But we expect the whole team to come out with a different mindset. They want us to come in and get one and we needed to get one. So it will be a great game.

 Q. Seemed like you out-hustled heir rebounding and shots last night. Do you think you're getting the respect, or are you getting the respect that --
 KENYON MARTIN: We're not worried about that. We're just trying to win games. We're just trying to win as many games as we can. We're trying to get the wins before anybody else. That's what we're trying to do.

 Q. Seems like outside local media a lot of hype about Kobe and LeBron?
 KENYON MARTIN: Say it again.

 Q. A lot of hype about Kobe and LeBron and people are still looking past this series. What do you think about that?
 KENYON MARTIN: I don't think nothing of it. That's the media. Those people hyping it up and whatnot. But we got something to say about that. Orlando got something to say about that series as well. 
 So if it's meant to be, then they've got their hands full in the meantime. But we're going and trying to win as many games as we can. You get the 16 wins before anybody else. So that's what it's about.

 Q. You kind of look like your guys work is just starting because you still have to win in LA. 
 KENYON MARTIN: Yeah, we still gotta win. We've got to win a game out there and no better game 10 the 5th one. That's the next one. It's the next task at hand. So we've got to focus in and be prepared to play. We know they're going to come with their A game we have to do so as well.

 Q. Birdman called tomorrow's game enormous. How big is it?
 KENYON MARTIN: It's a big game. Gotta look at every game you play like it's a must-win. It's the best of three now. So gotta be on point. And it starts tomorrow.

 Q. How do you guys contain the backboards like you did last night, can you do it again in Game 5?
 KENYON MARTIN: Just gotta be aggressive and be aggressive on both ends, attacking glass no matter what. It will be the same results. So we just gotta want to do it like we did. Just realize the results of what happened, those great results. So not worry about anything else but doing our job.

 Q. How much banging do you think is going to happen tomorrow, because it seems like it's getting more physical each game?
 KENYON MARTIN: I don't know. I haven't noticed. It's been the same way every series for me. You know? So I'm not worried. I don't know. You know what I'm saying? We'll see when the game starts. I have no idea. 

 Q. Can you talk about the rebounding last night, how much was it your guys being aggressive and maybe a little bit of fatigue on their part?
 KENYON MARTIN: I don't know. I know we went to the glass hard. That's all I know, myself. Bird and Nene, they went to the glass hard. So I can't speak on nothing else but that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT