NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: NUGGETS v LAKERS
May 24, 2009
Kenyon Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Are you doing anything special to prepare?
 KENYON MARTIN: No.

 Q. After last night's game, you guys, both teams played so hard. You gave out -- so much energy got exerted. How does this team get energy back for Game 4?
 KENYON MARTIN: The same thing they did I believe in Game 2. All three games have took -- they find a way to make a lot of energy, go in get a W. So now someone else has come out, at their home. Tough shots when they needed to.

 Q. How important is?
 KENYON MARTIN: It's a must-win. Definitely a must-win. Don't want to go back down 3-1. Finishing one game out there so we're at home. We're going to take business. It's very important for us.

 Q. Tell us about the (indiscernible) maybe mentioned it.
 KENYON MARTIN: That's a great thing there. (Laughter).

 Q. But tell me what you did in terms of energy?
 KENYON MARTIN: Chauncey and me been there. We've had some classic battles out there. You go to one of those, if you go through one of those, then you're all right. 
 But it's been all right. It had its times. It's been like every play, every possession. But it's had its times, though. But it's fine. 

 Q. (Indiscernible)?
 KENYON MARTIN: Probably something that's hurting them. But it's mind over matter. 

 Q. How much of that has affected your game?
 KENYON MARTIN: I can't feel the ball. When I was getting numb, I was getting numb before the game so I can go out and play. But it's frustrating, but just gotta do what I can do. When I go out and play I'm not going to just adjust anything.

 Q. What's the confidence of the team going like into Game 4?
 KENYON MARTIN: It's fine. A set-back. And we've been playing wheelchair adversity all year long, staying positive. And the guys, the standard things we did right and things we did wrong is very correctible. Gotta come out and do it.

 Q. How much (indiscernible)?
 KENYON MARTIN: None. None. The series is not over. You all wouldn't be talking to us right now, right? 

 Q. George talked about -- I think it was George, maybe it was Chauncey, when you're at home you're more comfortable taking shots. You take maybe more?
 KENYON MARTIN: Yeah, more chances.

 Q. Why is that?
 KENYON MARTIN: We shot 27 3s last night. I thought that was like wow. We try to put them away. We'll go with seven, eight, nine points, whatever the case may be, and trying to get the building up. We've done that so much during the season and during the playoffs. So we figured that's the way it was going to be. It's not always going to be that way. You gotta grind it out sometimes, take the tough 2 or get to the line and score points that way. But we're fine. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT