NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: NUGGETS v LAKERS
May 22, 2009
Kenyon Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   KENYON MARTIN: It was a bad day. Not making it out of the first round, things like that. People bad mouthing and such. But it's been better at our level, and it came by these playoffs.

 Q. Is there a fair comparison looking in the past at Duane [phonetic] in the playoffs, always pretty good in the playoffs and that one year he kind of ascended, and lead his team, see a similar thing this season?
 KENYON MARTIN: Yeah. I'd say he played great all year. But right now if I was, I would be watching him right now.

 Q. What does it mean when he decides to take on Kobe in the fourth quarter?
 KENYON MARTIN: That's where he came from. For him, being a defender or whatever the case may be, he plays zone, whatever the case may be. But he take another challenge. And it says a lot of his team, that he's willing to do whatever just in order to help us win. That also says a lot about him being team captain and all.

 Q. Did it prove something to you, did you guys need to win against a close type team like the Lakers on their home court in the finals?
 KENYON MARTIN: We're doing it in the season. We had some close games on the road during the season that we pulled out. I think that helped us especially late winning in Dallas late in the year and New Orleans and those close games. So I think that learning experience has helped us.

 Q. Playing them shot for shot in both games at the Staple Center, what does that do you for guys now going home to Denver?
 KENYON MARTIN: We've been playing well, but we wanted to get very tenacious every night when we step on the court. Going home, with it in sight, like I said, we feel like we let Game 1 get away by not making some plays late in the game. We want to go home and continue to get better and not relax. This is a good team. They can come in our building and both games show up and play, and we have to be on our A game.

 Q. You came into the series confident. Can you have more confidence now after having played them?
 KENYON MARTIN: We don't want to get ahead of ourselves. We just want to stay humble, stay on response. It's a great win. We enjoyed it, but there's still work that needs to be done.

 Q. How is your hand?
 KENYON MARTIN: Fine.

 Q. Could you even feel the pain during the game?
 KENYON MARTIN: No. I had none before the game. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT