ROLAND GARROS
May 28, 2017
Ivo Karlovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








I. KARLOVIC/S. Tsitsipas
7-6, 7-5, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. Congratulations.  How do you feel?  Because he's a young player coming up.  How it was for you to go through such a close match?
IVO KARLOVIC: Yeah.  Well, it was difficult first of all.  I didn't know anything about him, so I was trying to look around a little bit Internet, YouTube, you know.  And so I didn't really know what to expect.
And he can hit really hard with his forehands, also with the backhands, but I didn't really give him chance to hit a lot.  So, I mean, it was -- all in all, it was a really difficult match.  It was here and there.  Couple of points that I won with my experience maybe, or I don't know.  But, yeah, in the end, I'm pretty happy that I got through.
Q. Now, I don't know if you know, but it's Horacio Zeballos your next opponent.  So I don't know if you are thinking Oh, my God, not again, or you're thinking, well, I got through that one as well so...
IVO KARLOVIC: Yeah.  Well, it was unbelievable match in Australia this year.  It was difficult.  It could have gone either way, that match.  And I mean, you know, I like those kind of matches because this is what you remember.  You know, this is what I will always remember.  It was longest match in Australia, or I don't know when.  But I was losing and then, in the end, I was able to win.
So I like those kind of matches and that's what I will remember.  So hopefully not like this long match, but if it's another epic match, I am all in.
Q. I don't know if anyone has already asked, but how does it feel to play with someone 20 years less than you?  Do you feel more relaxed because he's got no experience at all or you feel like you want to give him a lesson because you're older?
IVO KARLOVIC: No, no.  I mean, I'm a nice guy.  I don't want to give lessons to young guys.  I just -- you know, it's like every other match.  I was trying to do anything I could to win.  And, you know, I mean, for sure he is a little bit unexperienced, but I think that he will have a really good career, you know.  So yeah.  I don't know.  That's about it.
Q. The careers of tennis players get longer and longer, and you're 38 now.  What do you think -- how many more years do you still have in you?
IVO KARLOVIC: Yeah.  Well, hopefully long.  You know, because this is what I like to do.  This is what I know how to do.  This is what I was doing all my life.  So if, like, it would end at tomorrow, I don't know what I would do.  No.  I'm just joking.
But, yeah, I mean, the career is getting longer because everybody is doing a lot more work.  Everybody is every day in the gym and they are trying to do everything they can to have less injuries and to be overall better athletes.
And that's what the difference from now and if you look back in the '80s, '90s, you know, when the players maybe didn't do as much of the all-around work.  So that's why the careers has gotten longer and longer.
Q. Can you tell us a few words about your opponent today?  About his game?  About your opinion about him?
IVO KARLOVIC: Yeah.  He's really good.  He's obviously young and he have unbelievable forehand and good first serve.  I think that he can improve on his second serve a lot.  And the overall really good game.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT