WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2012
Ivo Karlovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/I. Karlovic
  7‑5, 6‑7, 6‑2, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What do you feel made the difference?  
IVO KARLOVIC:   Foot‑faults.   I don't know what to say, but it was a little bit outrageous.   In my whole life, ever since I was eight years old, whole life I didn't do this many foot‑fault.   It was like 11.   
It was never called when it was like 30‑Love or 40‑Love.   It was always when it was 30‑All or in a tiebreak.   I mean, what is this?   Is it Davis Cup or is it Wimbledon?   
After this match, the whole credibility of this tournament went down for me.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel the fact you're playing the home favorite was a factor in the decision?  
IVO KARLOVIC:   Definitely, because it was 11 or I don't know how many.   But I don't do them, foot‑faults.   
And, I don't know, like always usually the linesmen, they always (indiscernible).   I don't know, in this match they didn't.   
   
 Q.   You had a discussion with the umpire during the tiebreak.   What did you say?   
IVO KARLOVIC:   No, then like after I don't know how many, I stand a little bit back so they cannot call.   They still did it, called.   So it was outrageous, outrageous.   It's Wimbledon, Centre Court, and they do this.   I mean, this is BS.   
   
 Q.   You're clearly upset about it.   Do you think you would have won without the foot‑faults?  
IVO KARLOVIC:   You do the calculation.   If these 10 points, I win?   Who would have win?   I don't know.   You do the math.   
   
 Q.   Obviously it must also get into your head when you're preparing to serve.   
IVO KARLOVIC:   That's why I went back.   I don't know, like normally my left leg is on the line, but I went back and they still did it.   
Maybe I did it, but I don't usually do it.   In my whole life I didn't do 11.   
   
 Q.   Did you ask the umpire why?  
IVO KARLOVIC:   I didn't.   It is not my job.   But, you know, I was focused on the match.   I didn't want to get too crazy over it because I would lose it.   So I was trying to be focused.   
I feel cheated.   On a Grand Slam, Centre Court, I don't know what to say.   
   
 Q.   You said you've never done 11.   What's the most you've ever been called for and when was that?   
IVO KARLOVIC:   One or two.   I don't even remember the last one.   Yesterday was one also in a tiebreak.  
   
 Q.   Will you complain, take this further now?  
IVO KARLOVIC:   I don't know if there is anything I can do about it.   Only if there should also be like Hawk‑Eye also looking at it so I could challenge it.   But I don't see how I can do anything about it.   
Obviously if they can do it here, then my whole‑‑ I don't know what to say.   It's like, I don't know, future events, I don't know what to say.  
   
 Q.   You see people blow up about individual line calls.   You kept calm about it on court really.   
IVO KARLOVIC:   Yeah, because I don't know, I am a calm guy.   But if I lose it, then I lose it.   I go off the court.   
   
 Q.   You're obviously upset because you thought you had a chance to win.   
IVO KARLOVIC:   I had a chance definitely, definitely.   But this 11 foot‑faults, it cannot go unwritten because this is outrageous.   
   
 Q.   Will you look back at the film of the recording of the match and see if it was properly done?  
IVO KARLOVIC:   Maybe.   I don't know.   I don't know what I'm going to do.   Right now I'm angry about it, little bit pissed, because I don't expect it here.   Even though it is against English guy who they always want to win, but I don't expect it here.   
   
 Q.   But you don't think Murray was in any way involved in that?  
IVO KARLOVIC:   I don't know.  
   
 Q.   You think Wimbledon are so desperate for Andy Murray to win, that's what happened today?  
IVO KARLOVIC:   Not Wimbledon, but whole England ‑ or UK, sorry.   
   
 Q.   You think they were biased?  
IVO KARLOVIC:   Definitely.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT