BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 17, 2011
Ivo Karlovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. NADAL/I. Karlovic
  5-7, 6-1, 7-6 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. It was so close. What is your feeling right now?  
 IVO KARLOVIC: Right now? Well, right now I'm a little bit, you know, disappointed, because it was close, you know. It was only about two points.  
 So it could have also went other way, you know, my way. But it didn't, so...   
 But all in all, it was good week, you know, for me, so I am happy.  
  
  Q. You won a lot of fans here tonight. Your game looked very elevated, like you played much better than you played all week. Is that accurate or inaccurate?  
 IVO KARLOVIC: Well, I mean, this week I was playing really well. I think also from the back volleying was really good.   
 Today it was a little bit different match, because he's, I mean, better than all the others, you know. But it was close. I could have also won, so I don't know what to say.  
  
  Q. Congratulations. Great match, by the way.   
 IVO KARLOVIC: Thank you. Thanks.  
  
  Q. It seems you are very close to your best level. What do you think?  
 IVO KARLOVIC: Well, yeah, I mean, I was injured last year for eight months all in all, so it was not easy this year. But this week I am really satisfied with the way I was playing matches, the way I was moving on the court, I mean, finally.  
  So I think from now it should only can get better.   
   
  Q. Your first serve percentage was quite a bit higher in the third. I think it was 83%. Was that just kind of feeding off the energy and refocusing for that set?  
 IVO KARLOVIC: Well, I mean, in the second set I didn't serve as well. I don't know. But in the third set I begin to serve well again. Yeah, it was also the whole crowd, you know, so maybe that's why. I don't know.  
  
  Q. Do you serve better when there is more pressure, third set, deciding set, big crowd?  
 IVO KARLOVIC: I don't know. I guess.  
  
  Q. You had a surgery?  
 IVO KARLOVIC: Yes.  
  
  Q. How was it difficult to come back after eight months when you were 31 or 32 years old?  
 IVO KARLOVIC: Yeah, it was not easy because I could not run, you know, because it was healing, so I could not run; I could not even walk.   
 So my physical went down, yeah, so I had to do all over, you know, from the beginning, like walking first and running a little bit more and more. So it was not easy, you know.  
 After, when I begin to play, then also it is not easy, because your eyes just lose the reaction and you don't know sometimes what to do on the court. Because when you are out for so long, it's not easy to come back.  
 But this week it was good, you know, so hopefully from now on it will only stay like this or better. I don't know.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT