WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 1, 2008
Ivo Karlovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  I. KARLOVIC/P. Kohlschreiber  
7-6, 7-6  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. You been doing very well in tiebreakers. Does that give you confidence when you get into these situations?  
 IVO KARLOVIC: Well, I mean, of course in a tiebreak it's most important to serve well and to use your chances.   
 I was playing well these last -- actually this week, so I'm happy about that.   
  
  Q. How important it was to follow up from yesterday's win today after beating Roger?   
 IVO KARLOVIC: Well, I mean, it was important because I felt like I can win, that I have my chances, but I was trying not to put pressure on myself after yesterday's win.   
  
  Q. You had a great year last year. I think this is going to be your first Masters Series semifinal.   
 IVO KARLOVIC: Yes.  
  
  Q. So you're excited about that as well, I guess.   
 IVO KARLOVIC: Yes.  
  
  Q. How big of an opportunity is this for you? Do you feel like you can win this tournament?  
 IVO KARLOVIC: Well, I mean, I'm in the semis now. I mean, obviously I was playing well this week, so anything can happen from this moment on.   
  
  Q. After Wimbledon or at Wimbledon, you lost there then lost two other first rounders. What's the turnaround?  
 IVO KARLOVIC: Well, I mean, after Umag I just took one week off. I didn't even practice anything. I came here and I played unbelievable, so I don't know.   
  
  Q. How about Andy tomorrow? You've played twice before, two very close matches.   
 IVO KARLOVIC: Yeah, I mean, it was always close. In the first match last year in San Jose I was a set and a break up and I lost, but I think that I'm going to have a chance to win tomorrow.   
  
  Q. When you get into tiebreakers now, how much confidence do you have?   
 IVO KARLOVIC: Well, I mean, this year I don't know if I'm even, you know. I think I lost more than I won, but this week I played well. I feel comfortable, yeah.  
  
  Q. I'm from Television Switzerland and I didn't have a chance to talk to you yesterday. I would like to ask a question about the match yesterday. What was different or how Roger played you differently than the last six matches you played against him?   
 IVO KARLOVIC: Well, I mean, honestly, he played the same. He had very little unforced errors. He was playing well from the baseline. Maybe in the tiebreak he missed one forehand which he normally doesn't miss, but I think everything else was at the same level.  
  
  Q. Did you approach the match differently since you know that he was struggling lately?   
 IVO KARLOVIC: I mean, struggling lately, I mean, if he beat Nadal in the Wimbledon I don't think that anybody would say that he was struggling lately.   
 I mean, he played the final French Open, final Wimbledon, so I think that everybody else except Nadal would like to have that result. I mean, so...  
  
  Q. If you were to go on to win this tournament, how much would that mean to you?  
 IVO KARLOVIC: Well, it would mean a lot because it's a Super 9 event. It would mean a lot for sure.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT