COUPE ROGERS
August 11, 2015
Ivo Karlovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







I. KARLOVIC/M. Raonic
  7‑6, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR: Ivo becomes the second player in the 10,000 Aces Club, joining his countryman Goran Ivanisevic. Also Ivo's third top‑10 win of the season. Questions, please. 

Q. How does it feel to score such a big win here in Canada, upsetting the local hero?
IVO KARLOVIC: Yeah, I mean, it is unbelievable, you know. He's top 10. Obviously it means a lot to me. 
I was moving unbelievable this evening. Everything was going my way. So I'm really, really happy with my performance tonight. 

Q. You play particularly well in tiebreaks. Do you do anything different during the tiebreak?
IVO KARLOVIC: I mean, I was really focused and aggressive. I was hitting forehands unbelievable. I was running around. I mean, everything was going my way. 
That's why it was this score in the tiebreaks. 

Q. You're 36 now. You're probably playing like better than you ever played. Do you feel like you're good wine, improving with age?
IVO KARLOVIC: Yes, yes, I don't feel any less strong or fast than when I was younger. I feel really good. Also, I don't know if it's the reason, I begin later a little bit. I didn't reach top 100 when I was 18, 19. I reached little bit later. That's why I'm not like used up. 
I feel good. As long as I will be healthy and my ranking will be up like this, there is no reason to stop. 

Q. You just hit your 10 thousandth ace. Are you aiming to beat Goran's record?
IVO KARLOVIC: Yeah, I mean, of course, that is my goal. I would hope that it will be this year. If not, it's okay also if it's next year. Hopefully I will be able to do it, be healthy enough, and hopefully it will be soon. 

Q. When playing someone like Milos, it's more or less like playing against yourself. You have similar styles of play. You serve very hard. Do you do something different when you prepare to play someone that is playing more or less like you?
IVO KARLOVIC: Yeah, I need to be aggressive. I need to use every little opportunity that I have because there will not be a lot of them. 
I had opportunities today to end earlier, but he just did unbelievable on those breakpoints. I had maybe one chance. Every other ball he hit was ace or hit winner forehand, so I didn't really have opportunities there. 
Yeah, I mean, you just have to be like really into it, focused, and try to use every little opportunity that you get. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT