WIMBLEDON
July 6, 2015
Ivo Karlovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/I. Karlovic
  7‑6, 6‑4, 5‑7, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Did you feel that you were close to making that a very tight match and possibly a fifth set?
IVO KARLOVIC:   Yeah, of course.   I had the opportunities, had a few break points but I didn't make them.   I think he played really well, like passing shots, lobs, unbelievable.
I don't know if he ever did this good, I mean, that part of the game.   He was playing unbelievable.   I was also doing really good, tough, and in the end I was a little bit unlucky.
But I'm confident if I continue like this I will have a great year.

Q.   How was the atmosphere for you out there?   Because of course he's British.   He got more support than you.   Was it still okay for you, everything? 
IVO KARLOVIC:   Yeah, it was unbelievable atmosphere.   It is always unbelievable here at this court.
I mean, of course he's from here, so of course everybody is going to be for him.   But all in all, it was unbelievable atmosphere.

Q.   A key point obviously in the seventh game of the fourth set with that volley, the sequence seemed to be that it dropped in, Andy played it, you volleyed it back in, and there was a challenge.   Did you think that was right that the challenge was allowed or... 
IVO KARLOVIC:   Well, I don't know if it's right or not.   In the end, Hawk‑Eye showed that it was out and it was up to the umpire to make that call.   So it's up to him.

Q.   Were you happy with the officiating?
IVO KARLOVIC:   Yeah, yeah.   Everything was good.

Q.   How would you rate your serve today?   Was it on a normal base or a bit lower?
IVO KARLOVIC:   It was only 29 aces.   (Smiling.)   So, yeah.   You decide.

Q.   Is that a tribute to his returning or that you weren't quite as good as you had been in the first three rounds?
IVO KARLOVIC:   I think I did good.   I did great.   Tactically everything was great.   I was hitting forehands.   I was going on the net and all was great. 
I was a little bit unlucky, but again, if I do this all the year, it will be unbelievable year for me.

Q.   What did you think of his lob today?
IVO KARLOVIC:   It was great.   It was great lobbing.   I was not as quick, you know, to go back. 
But I don't know.   It was good lobbing.

Q.   Have you been lobbed many times like that?
IVO KARLOVIC:   Never. 

Q.   Never?
IVO KARLOVIC:   No.

Q.   Are you saying then that the umpire‑‑ you clearly thought your eyes told you that the ball was on the line.   Do you think the umpire maybe should have intervened and perhaps disputed the Hawk‑Eye call?   Is that what you're saying? 
IVO KARLOVIC:   I don't know.   Where did you hear that? 

Q.   No, I thought that's what you were suggesting possibly. 
IVO KARLOVIC:   Not at all.   Hawk‑Eye is the last call.   There is no after that anybody can do that.   So I didn't say nothing like that. 
I don't know.   How did you hear ‑‑where did you hear that?   I didn't say ‑‑ I don't know. 

Q.   How proud are you in particular to be the oldest man to have reached this stage since another Croat has won?   It's a historic Wimbledon for you. 
IVO KARLOVIC:   I'm the oldest one.   I don't know if that's good or not.   That should be something, you know, that I am proud of.   But no, I mean, of course it's unbelievable that in my age, you know, I am still doing this.   I could have almost won, you know, against one of the best athletes in the game.   It's unbelievable.

Q.   You had a tremendous introduction on Centre Court when you beat Hewitt all those years ago.   How do you look back on yourself then and where you are now?
IVO KARLOVIC:   Yeah, that was 12 years ago, I believe?   I was ranked maybe 250th?   I don't know.   I qualified and I had an opportunity to play against No. 1, Lleyton Hewitt, and I was happy that I am on the same court with him.
I remember when I got out there, I was looking around.   I didn't even look at the ball, and then he was beating me like easy 6‑1, but then I got into it and I began to believe, you know, that I can hang in there, hang in there.
And the next thing I knew, it was that I won against him.   That was unbelievable.   That was unbelievable, yeah, feeling. 
Actually, that was moment when my career changed.   After that, I began to play better and got into top 100 also that year after US Open.   I mean, that was definitely the turning point of my career.

Q.   Could you imagine then everything you have done since then?
IVO KARLOVIC:   No, no.   I was 24.   I was ranked like 200‑something, like, years.   I didn't go the step up, and then‑‑ so no, that was the turning point of my career, definitely. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT