WIMBLEDON
July 4, 2015
Ivo Karlovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 I. KARLOVIC/J. Tsonga
  7‑6, 4‑6, 7‑6, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   I believe that's 136 aces in three matches so far.   I mean, how much form do you think you're taking into ‑‑ looks like it will be Andy Murray at the moment in the next round.   How do you feel you're playing?  
IVO KARLOVIC:   Yeah.   Always, when you win, it is always good form.   I feel good.   It will not be easy if it's him next round, but if I continue serving like this, I will definitely have opportunity.  
   
 Q.   When you've got your service going like that, you must feel almost like no one can beat you because you're never going to get broken.   
IVO KARLOVIC:   I know every game is different, each game, you know.   So I always try to begin good, and if it's a lot of aces like this, then of course it is easier.  
Each point, it's a new one, so I don't feel like nobody can beat me.   I just always go on to the next one, next points.  
   
 Q.   You've never beaten Murray, have you?  
IVO KARLOVIC:   No.   So now it's opportunity to.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel confident?  
IVO KARLOVIC:   I feel good.   I like what I do.   I'm having fun.   So I don't know how it's gonna be.   I have chance, for sure.  
   
 Q.   In the fourth set today, you were set point down at 6‑7.   You appeared to hit the ball twice with your volley winner.   I mean, were you aware that you hit it twice at the time?  
IVO KARLOVIC:   Yes.   I knew it, but it was one motion, and then if it's one motion it's allowed.  
   
 Q.   I mean, the replays make it look like it's not one motion.   
IVO KARLOVIC:   Yeah, because it's really slow down.  
   
 Q.   Can you describe the play exactly what happened on it?  
IVO KARLOVIC:   I was going to the net and he hit a crosscourt, and I just, like, stretched my arm.   Then the ball hit like down on my racquet, and then because it hit down, my racquet went like this, and then it hit like here, and then boom, boom.   But it was one motion so that is legal.  
   
 Q.   He didn't say anything to Tsonga about it.   Did he query it?  
IVO KARLOVIC:   No.   I didn't even know that he was asking anything about it.  
   
 Q.   What did you think at the time when that happened?  
IVO KARLOVIC:   That I was extremely lucky.   I liked it a lot (smiling).   
   
 Q.   What is the feeling for you at your age to be into the second week of Wimbledon and be the oldest man still in the competition?  
IVO KARLOVIC:   It's a great feeling, you know.   I really like what I do.   I'm just having fun.   So if I'm able to do this at my age, it is unbelievable still.  
And I don't know for how much longer I can do this, but right now I don't have an issue with injuries a lot.   And I am healthy, motivated.   So I will go on.   
   
 Q.   It's a fair chance you play Murray in the next round on Centre Court.   Will it worry you to go out and basically upset a whole nation by beating a Brit?  
IVO KARLOVIC:   Yeah, that could be not nice, I guess, but that's what I try to do.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   How do you explain your longevity in the game?   Is it partly your style of play that you're able to save some energy because there aren't a lot of long rallies?   Or is there something else behind it?  
IVO KARLOVIC:   I think it's because I begin late.   I begin a lot later than everybody else in this professional ATP, you know.   Because I, when I was young, I didn't have a lot of opportunities to develop earlier, so I begin later.  
That's why I don't feel that I'm used up, like, still.   
   
 Q.   What do you think about the fifth‑set tiebreaker?   Do you think it's a good idea?  
IVO KARLOVIC:   It is good idea if you...   
   
 Q.   In the slams.   
IVO KARLOVIC:   If you win it.   But if you lose, then why it is not longer (smiling)?   
No, I think the fans like that there is no tiebreak, that it can go on and on, and they like to look who is gonna die first on the court (laughter).  
So it is good.   Yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT