QATAR EXXONMOBILE OPEN
January 8, 2015
Ivo Karlovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 I. KARLOVIC/N. Djokovic
  6‑7, 7‑6, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Very well done, Ivo.   You handled both the world's best player and the conditions very well.   
IVO KARLOVIC:   Yeah, I mean, it was really difficult out there because it was windy.   It was difficult.   But I was just trying to be calm always and to focus on my game.   
In the end I was a little bit luckier than him.   So I am happy that I won.  
   
 Q.   Why do you say you were luckier?   Because the way you broke serve near the end was with an amazing forehand running pass.   You played pretty well, didn't you?   
IVO KARLOVIC:   Yeah, I know, but it can always go out a little bit.   So I was lucky that it was in.   
   
 Q.   Did you feel he was getting frustrated at some stage?  
IVO KARLOVIC:   Yeah.   I looked at him when he throw the racquet and when he smashed the ball, so I knew that he was a little bit frustrated.   So I was just trying to stay calm.  
   
 Q.   Did that help you to see him like that?  
IVO KARLOVIC:   Yeah.   I mean, he's No. 1, so in today's game he's really best.   So I was just trying to stay calm.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel that you're playing better now than you were, say, four or five years ago?   Your ranking is higher and your serving is even better than before.   
IVO KARLOVIC:   Yes, definitely.   I had a lot of injuries since 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, so now I was almost one‑and‑a‑half years without injury, so I was able to practice a lot and I guess that also helps.  
   
 Q.   You had a 73% first‑serve percentage overall, and in the third set 85%.   That's pretty impressive for a guy who has a big serve, but it can be erratic at times, I guess, because it's so big.   
IVO KARLOVIC:   Yeah, I mean, it's always good when the percentage is high, because then it is easier obviously for me.   So I was happy about that game.   
   
 Q.   How difficult was it out there?   Did you feel like there was sand swirling or just wind?  
IVO KARLOVIC:   Yeah, it was difficult, but it was actually little bit less than earlier in the day when I was warming up.   Then it was really hard.   
But then, as the game was going on, the wind was less and less.  
   
 Q.   And David Ferrer next.   Your thoughts?   
IVO KARLOVIC:   Yeah.   He is what he is.   You know, he's really good player.   It will not be easy, but hopefully I will continue with my level.   So it will be interesting match.   
   
 Q.   Did Novak say anything to you at the end?  
IVO KARLOVIC:   Yeah, he congratulated me, and he said that it was really good serving from me.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT