BAYLOR UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
April 21, 2018
Jamie Jacobs
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JAMIE JACOBS: General idea but I had no idea that Coach Rhule was going to give me that, but I appreciate it.   
 Q.  You were a defensive guy when you got here, now winning offensive awards.  Talk about that transition, what's that been like?  
JAMIE JACOBS: Been great, having people like Coach McGuire and Coach Rhule on my side.  Like you said, it started last fall after a game, he told me to come run some routes.  I caught every ball.   
He said I looked good and he was going to try me there.  From there just excelled.  I feel like a lot of my skills on the defensive end and defensive player translate to being a tight end which is like hands and feet and all this.  So it came into play.   
 Q.  How do you feel like today went for you guys?  
JAMIE JACOBS: I think the offense did good.  We had a lot of people banged up.  So a lot of people weren't there that we really needed.   
But the young guys stepped up.  We got Gerry in there.  Preston did good.  Charlie is more comfortable in the pocket I think they did good.   
 Q.  Coach Rhule said he didn't care if you all played this game at all it was more for you guys and the fans for you to go out and have fun did you have fun out there?  
JAMIE JACOBS: Yes, so much fun.  Just being around my brothers every day, every practice, we have fun.  Even if we're not doing much, just being around each other helps a lot.   
 Q.  Did you play much offense in high school at all?  
JAMIE JACOBS: None, none at all.  Last time I played offense I think it was Pee Wee, fullback or offensive line, but I never really ran the ball.   
 Q.  Is it something you've wanted to do?  
JAMIE JACOBS: Oh, yeah, every big guy wants to score touchdowns.  And I believe in Coach Rhule and what he saw in me and I took it from there.   
 Q.  He mentioned before the game about going to a bowl game this year, Coach Rhule did.  What about this team makes you think that you all could get there?  
JAMIE JACOBS: I think our senior leadership.  Not knocking any of the guys last year, but I think we're a close collective group as seniors and I think we can lead the way for the young guys.   
 Q.  After spring that you all had how important is this next time period over the summer and getting ready for fall camp?  
JAMIE JACOBS: Very important.  This is the time we build up our bodies because you know it's going to be a long stretch down the road.  We go to Oklahoma.  We go to Texas.  We go to Morgantown.  So games like that we need our body in tip top shape.  This is the time to do it.   
 Q.  Coach Rhule said it's something about you physically would be a better tight end than a defensive end.  Maybe because you're angular or something.  What was that discussion about?  
JAMIE JACOBS: Yes, so he basically compared me to a lot of NFL guys he coached in the past and basically said my size being, like, 6'4", 6'3", and being able to move laterally and be quick on my feet and good hands, he felt like the tight end position would be very well.   
And he knows that I come from a basketball background because in high school I only played two years of varsity football before translating to -- I was a basketball player for the longest time.  I can go up and get balls, that came into play.   
 Q.  Do you get the idea that especially in the Big 12 it's always known for this up tempo lots of throwing but the tight end is making a comeback?  
JAMIE JACOBS: For sure.   
 Q.  And probably nationally as well.  Was it that much of a twist of your arm to get you to move?  
JAMIE JACOBS: For sure, for sure.   
 Q.  It wasn't much of a twist of your arm, though.  
JAMIE JACOBS: No, I was all for it.  No, just I mean I study a lot of guys that we play against, Mark Andrews, tight end from Oklahoma, he just won the best tight end award.  About to make millions.  And to see that and hopefully I could do the same, a lot of motivation.   
 Q.  Which defense do you think you may still play, at times situational?  
JAMIE JACOBS: During the spring they had me moving back and forth.  So I go and do pass rush one-on-ones but I never really got in any team situations.   
But Coach, the new defensive line coach told me to stick by his side.  Every time I come off the field I have to be by him because I might go in on third and long situations or maybe first -- it doesn't matter.   
 Q.  May throw Tyler in there a little bit?  
JAMIE JACOBS: Yeah.   
 Q.  One-on-one type stuff?  
JAMIE JACOBS: Me and Tyler switched, I'll go to seven-on-seven and he'll go to one-on-one.  They might switch us both, but for sure I'll be there third and long.   
 Q.  Tight end or defensive end?  
JAMIE JACOBS: More of a tight end.   
 Q.  You can be like that Iowa State guy, the quarterback who went to middle linebacker.  
JAMIE JACOBS: I know that.  I love that.  But right now I'm more tight end.  I've been getting my reps at tight end.  If they need me to come in on defense, get a stop, I'm more than happy.  For sure.   
 Q.  Did you mentally commit when you asked for the jersey change, is that when you --  
JAMIE JACOBS: For sure.   
 Q.  Was that something you thought about one night or --  
JAMIE JACOBS: I think I came to my locker room the first day of spring and saw the 43.  I thought they were going to give me a new number.  I feel like I'm a new player, new person -- new person.  This position change gave me a lot of opportunities.  And I feel like I just needed a new kind of demeanor about myself.  So I wanted to move to an 80 number and really transition.   
 Q.  You're 86 now?  
JAMIE JACOBS: 86.  It might change.   
 Q.  You weren't on the roster today, by the way?  
JAMIE JACOBS: I know it.  I was kind of upset about that.  (Laughter).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT