CANON GREATER HARTFORD OPEN
June 25, 2001
Ted Kroll
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 TED KROLL: I think it is very nice, Bob, in order to be here. I have a lot of friends
here. I did have a lot of friends and I'm meeting more friends. Pretty soon I'll be
crowded. 
 
 TED KROLL: Well, it rained a little bit in the morning, that sort of stuff, but it
wasn't bad. We played. Toward the late afternoon, trees were starting to buckle and
everything like that. And so we had to stop -- stop playing, so we waited and waited and
they said it was okay to come back. Some wanted to cancel the tournament, that round, and
you can't do that because some of them were finished, so there were only a few groups
left. I was playing the last round with Julius Boros . I played the last hole par and that
was good enough to win. Shot 67 that round and so that was it. 
 
 TED KROLL: Oh, if you're standing on one of the greens and you just stood there without
spikes, you would slide down the hill. First prize I think was $12,000 winning the
tournament. Now for a tournament now, not all of them, but quite a few of them, half a
million. 
 
 TED KROLL: Oh, sure. Nice to dig into that pile, wouldn't it? 
 
 TED KROLL: Yeah, loaned him a putter. I don't understand, I must be a hell of a nice
guy. 
 
 TED KROLL: Well, Arnie is a good fellow, really.  
 
Q. Did the War interrupt your golf career at all?
 
 TED KROLL: I played in a couple of tournaments, not too many. I played in the '41 U.S.
Open. I was leading that for 25 holes or something and somebody says the score on the
board -- you know, "Hey, sonny, do you know who is leading the tournament?"
"I don't know. I don't care who is playing." P. "You are." I don't
know what the hell I shot the last -- 
 
 TED KROLL: Ruined everything. 
 
 TED KROLL: Everything. They have better maintenance than we used to have. You're not
going to have any bad lies. Once in awhile, you're liable to. But it's cleaner. It's
cleaner. More of the greens are steady. In other words, you don't have it flowing and all
that sort of stuff.  
 
Q. How much tougher would it be on today's kids playing on the conditions that you guys
played under? 
 
 TED KROLL: I think that you take at least a stroke, or roughly that, maybe a point. And
you have more people. So playing good one week, bad the next week or something like that.
Now when they get going, the greens are all the same, and they just mow all over the
greens. 
 
 TED KROLL: See, when you hit a ball off a good fairway, you can stop it, shoot it right
at the flag and all that sort of stuff. When we played, you shoot it at the flag, you're
down there in the swamps.  
 
Q. Big business now, it seems so much more informal than when you and Arnold and those
guys were playing. Do you think it was a lot more fun?
 
 TED KROLL: Oh, sure we had a lot more fun. We didn't work as hard, either. It wasn't a
matter of life and death when we played because you weren't going to make that much money
anyway. We didn't carry a briefcase with us because we didn't need it. Now they need a
briefcase with them and all the contracts and everything like that, how much stock they
have left. I don't have much stock left, either. (Laughter.) 
 
Q. What memories do you take out of the fact that you played in this tournament? 
 
 TED KROLL: Well, I think the people made it. The golf course wasn't that difficult. The
layout wasn't that difficult. But the people wanted you to come back. And it was good to
see Lee Trevino is here, Sam Snead, Arnie. All of them. 
 
 TED KROLL: You've got to have something going for you. You can't be straight and
narrow. You've got to wide it -- wider -- it's good. Of course, only thing is don't lie
too much, because when they get you next time you'll forget what lie you did and they have
got you covered. 
 
 TED KROLL: Well, I have some good ones. I was going to tell you a good one -- I'm
talking about a woman. (Laughter.) Well, Sam beat me in a couple tournaments and he says,
"Ted, can't you win anymore." And now Sam and I are playing each other in a PGA
and as we are playing the 14th hole, I'm all up on sand. I had a 4-wood and I put it a
couple feet off the green and Sam hit a 1-iron and I think he put it on the green but he
-- oh, longer than that. So, I went up and I putted about from here to here and I made it
-- Sam putted from about here to here. I was going to give him the putt and -- but he was
on the side hill and so he missed it. Well, what happened, somebody caught him on his
backstroke and now there's no way that they can make this -- sorry, Sammy couldn't help
it. Look here, you son of a gun. So, now we are going and we're going off the edge of the
green and I dug a little one and he says, "What's so funny?" And I says,
"Sam, that's the first time in your life you ever lost a little." That's a true
story -- inaudible -- pine tree in Florida and we're playing the 50th -- Sam Snead he was
on TOUR and that sort of stuff, and so I told that story at dinner time with a woman there
and Sam went up and he told the same thing -- he says: "And that dirty rat cost me
the PGA." (Laughter.) 
 
 TED KROLL: Oh, yeah, I won the match. It was match play, yeah. 
 
Q. How come golfers have such great memories about their golf shots from 50 years ago
when most of us can't remember what we had for dinner last night? 
 
 TED KROLL: I don't know, because I think the interest is so deep that -- well, that's
what they think about golf. Yeah, I hit a good shot -- how close was it, well about that
close. There's no question about it, I thought I made it, but I didn't. I was close. We'll
see. What happens is that I get to play with the fellas and all that sort of stuff, and
you're trying to compare how you did against him. If he was a better player than you; you
want to watch him. If he's a worse player than you look the other way. Like Sam Snead
says, he couldn't watch Hogan too much because Hogan was so fast, you know, swinging fast,
flatter swing. He was a fast swinger. And Sam said he can't watch the man play. His swing
is so slow that I think he falls asleep while he's swinging. That's the sort of stuff I
told them that yesterday. I says, "First time I played with you was somewhere in
Florida. You just came out of the Amateur." So, we're playing and I says -- Gee, how
plays I -- I didn't say so lazy. But he says because I'm so lazy. But I tell you
something, he could play. He could play, I tell you that. But he took it back slow, start
slow, and slow running it through, and the ball is on the fairway and he takes an iron
shot slow, slow and a little bit over there -- on the green. I says, hell, if you do that
with a putter -- (Laughter.) But I enjoy coming here, because it's the people that make
the tournament. That's what makes the tournament. You just look around. How many
spectators -- spectators in the country right here. That's because you people support it.
You get support from the people. You're going to have something that's good, you may have
a couple of people that aren't that good, but the majority of them, and that's what
counts.  
 
Q. Do you remember the bad moments more vividly than the good moments? 
 
 TED KROLL: I think of the good shots I hit, and I remember the bad shots that cost me
the Open, the PGA and all that sort of stuff. I was always thinking about how good it was,
I mean, how close the shot went. Playing Sam Snead, I mean, it, was because it was fun. 
 
Q. So you remember the good shots and the bad ones equally, or the important ones
anyway?
 
 TED KROLL: The bad ones I remember, too. There's quite a few bad ones, I'll tell you
that. It's nice to be with you, but I've got to go. Have fun and enjoy.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT