CFP NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP: OHIO STATE VS ALABAMA
January 11, 2021
Dylan Moses
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Alabama - 52, Ohio State - 24
 Q. Dylan, with Christian playing in front of you, how have you seen him progress as the season's gone on?  He was the defensive MVP tonight.  How has he gotten better as the year's gone on?
 DYLAN MOSES:   He's progressed a lot.  I'm so proud of him, me and him being close and growing up together and knowing him since we was kids.  Like I said, it's a blessing to be in this position and I was, and I'm proud to be able to play beside him and I'm sure he's feels the same way with me.
 Q. Coach Saban now has seven national championships, more than any other coach in history.  What has he meant to you, as a player?
 DYLAN MOSES:   He's meant everything to me.  Like he changed my life.  I don't know if you guys remember, but he offered me a scholarship out of the 8th grade.  I've been knowing him since I was 14 years old, personally.  So the relationship everyone else has with him and the relationship I have with him is completely different.
 So for him to be the greatest of all time and to surpass seven titles, to make seven titles and surpass all the other coaches, I congratulate him for that and I'm proud of him.  I'm sure he's proud of his team for accomplishing his great task.
 But as far as Coach Saban, man, he will always be the great coach, the greatest coach I've ever played for.
 Q. How rewarding is this victory after such a challenging season?
 DYLAN MOSES:   It's like a weight off our backs after going through all the adversity we went through, not knowing whether or not we would play.  And as far as like my personal things that I've went through just as far as life and all that, it's definitely a weight off our shoulders and this was our main goal.  This is what we wanted to do.  This is what I came back for, and I kept my word and we won the title.  So I'm happy.
 Q. For someone who's been through a knee injury, what was it like to watch Landon come in for the final snap there and be able to be on the field for this game?
 DYLAN MOSES:   It was motivating, it reminded me of what I did last year whenever we played LSU, back in 2019, whenever I dressed full pads and all that.  So that gave a lot of motivation to a lot of guys, along with seeing Jalen playing after getting hurt against Tennessee a couple, well, yeah, several weeks ago.  So we just wanted to play for our guys, play for our team and that's how we came out on top.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT