CFP SEMIFINAL AT THE ROSE BOWL GAME PRESENTED BY CAPITAL ONE: ALABAMA VS NOTRE DAME
December 28, 2020
Dylan Moses
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Dylan Moses.
 Q. How do you feel about going up against Kyren Williams?
 DYLAN MOSES:   I feel really good.  Like I said, I looked over their entire offense.  They have a really explosive and strong offense as far as how good they run the ball and how efficient the quarterback distributes the ball throughout to their receiver.  So I'm really up for the challenge.
 Q. Deciding to come back, is this the big payoff, playing in games like this?
 DYLAN MOSES:   Oh, yeah.  This is something I really look forward to.  This is something throughout the entire year, from beginning to end, that's something that our guys really talked about.  And that was our main goal, was just getting to this point.  It was the driving force coming back.
 Q. I'm just curious what is required of you from a communication standpoint on each play, what are you looking for, how are you communicating to the rest of your team?
 DYLAN MOSES:   The main job for me is just get the plays to the rest of the defense, looking at Coach Golding and distributing the plays throughout the -- from one side of the field to the other.  And that's really pretty much my job.
 The main thing I'm looking for is just to set up the defensive linemen, and then Christian pretty much communicates with the defensive backs to set up -- you know, to give them the plays.
 Q. In this strange year with all the protocols and restrictions, what was life like away from football practice and the football facility?  Did you have much of a life away from everything football related?
 DYLAN MOSES:   During quarantine or like when we --
 Q. Well, even during the season, when you guys are trying to just get through a season with all the testing, but begin distancing, not having classes in person, things like that?
 DYLAN MOSES:   It was really stressful, but the main thing was keep a level mind and do the things we needed to do in order to succeed.  Just like with testing and all that, like I say, it can weigh on you, having to do that every day and having to persevere through all those challenges.
 But like I said, for the most part, our team is handling it well.  And like I said, we're just ready for our next great challenge.
 Q. When you look back on your 2017 recruiting class, you've got Mac and Tua, you got the Rideouts (phonetic) and yourself and Jedrick, Alex and Xavier -- so many guys playing in the NFL now and will be playing in the NFL.  When that class was coming together, did you have any sense of how special it could be?
 DYLAN MOSES:   Of course, that was one of the main reasons I committed to Alabama.  I wanted to be part of a great team and be surrounded by great competition.  That was something that I looked at before I committed.  And I knew that us all coming together would be something would be beneficial later on down the road.
 Q. There's been a lot of questions today about the tight ends you guys have played in the past and the tight ends that Notre Dame has right now.  What about the current Notre Dame group of tight ends stands out to you when you watch them on tape?
 DYLAN MOSES:   They're really versatile.  They can stay in the core and block or be flexed out and play as a receiver and catch the ball.
 So I feel like with that, we really have to be on our Ps and Qs and make sure we're disciplined in our pass drops and making sure that we're doing everything we can to put everything on Rex.  But it's going to be very tough.  They're a really experienced group.  And like I say, we expect the most from them.
 Q. I hope you could speak to the Notre Dame offense.  Overall, just give me a scouting report of what you have seen out of the Notre Dame offense, study and film?
 DYLAN MOSES:   Watching them, they have a really strong running attack.  And, like I said, throughout watching their film, their offensive line is really aggressive.  And their running back, he's really quick and he picks his hole pretty well.
 And their quarterback, he keeps his eyes on the field.  No matter what's going on in front of him, he always tries to extend plays.
 And for us, we have to stay on all the receivers or the guys that we're covering in order to keep him contained and also to put pressure on him as well.
 Like I say, with his guy, he's very versatile with his legs and his arm as far as the quarterback go.
 Like I say, they have really a lot of weapons.  So for us, like I said, we just have to be really disciplined and make sure we stay in our gaps, keep the quarterback contained and just be disciplined overall.
 THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT