CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: ALABAMA VS OKLAHOMA
December 26, 2018
Dylan Moses
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How especially from your linebacker position, how they're able to compromise defenses, what you've seen studying them?  
DYLAN MOSES: Well, I know that they're a very efficient, very efficient and explosive offense.  You know, they do a lot of RPOs and they read the linebackers and the safeties and stuff.  I feel like we really have to use a lot of technique and play to the best of our ability and try and basically make the offenses and Kyler Murray uncomfortable in a sense.  That's really what I think we should do.   
 Q.  Walk me through an RPO, how it compromises someone in the second level because that's what they want to do is try to put you (indiscernible) --  
DYLAN MOSES: Yeah, for me personally, I feel like I'm a run stopper, so it's just like I anticipate the run.   
 Q.  Okay.  
DYLAN MOSES: So whenever something like that, I feel like it will kind of take me out of position, and as soon as it takes me out of position, they'll try and throw it behind me, but that's what I'm saying, for this week I've got to play more patiently.   
 Q.  What have you thought of Murray?  There's a dynamism there that's pretty unique.  Did you enjoy watching him on film?  
DYLAN MOSES: Yeah, when I watched him on film it's crazy because he looked like Mike Vick out there running from sideline to sideline, making explosive plays.  He just looks amazing on film.  And then when you just watch it as a football player, you've just really got to sit back and watch it, try and think of how you're going to stop that, how you're going to sit there and keep him in the box, keep him contained.  It's one of those things where you have to use a lot of technique, be patient, you've got to do your job mainly.   
 Q.  You're not a very big guy, but what do you think of -- it's a unique package that he brings.  I'm curious what you think of his size?  
DYLAN MOSES: I feel like he's good for their offense.  He can really hide behind linemen and extend plays because you can't really see him.  Like I said, you just really have to get in the backfield and make him uncomfortable and make him do things he don't want to do.   
 Q.  Is there a feeling amongst the founders that -- he's your teammate and such, but does that feeling carry over where you have a chance to help prove that he's a better player in this game?  
DYLAN MOSES: Well, of course I'm going to be biased because he's my teammate, but it's like there's a time and place for everything.  Kind of like me with the buckets.  Like I wasn't really too worried about it, but he's a sophomore.  Things are going to come in time.  He's just got to be patient.  But I don't feel like this is one of those trying to prove something because I feel like he's proved enough.  But when he comes into this game, I just want him to do his job and help us get this win.   
 Q.  When you're reading an RPO, what are your main keys?  
DYLAN MOSES: Well, the first thing I look at is the offensive linemen, and I move -- I transitioned from the offensive linemen to the running back, then the quarterback, and --   
 Q.  How fast is that taking place?  
DYLAN MOSES: It's like three seconds because like you're going to look at all three of them anyway, but yeah, that's mainly where my transition goes from.  It makes people uncomfortable, most people uncomfortable, and me just like -- it's just one of my transitions throughout the play.   
 Q.  How much does it help, because you guys are effective at quick slamming an RPO --  
DYLAN MOSES: Yeah, how we did it in practice?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
DYLAN MOSES: Like I said, that's great practice for us, going against Jeudy and Tua because I feel like me personally, they're the best offensive players in the country and we're going against the best of the best.  They help the defense really get better and prepare for situations like this.   
 Q.  How long does it take to adjust to where -- you said you're going to look at them all anyway, when you first start doing it, is it like this, and then as you go on with it, is it like, okay, I see the offensive line, then --  
DYLAN MOSES: Not really, because when you're playing a game you can't really think about it.  You've just got to do it.  When you do it enough, it becomes second nature.  That's pretty much how we handle it.   
 Q.  Did you have to do it at all in high school?  
DYLAN MOSES: Not really.  Like in high school it was more so straightforward, like you see -- what you see is what you get.  On the college level it's kind of like a disguise type thing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT