TOSTITOS FIESTA BOWL: OHIO STATE v MIAMI
January 3, 2003
Michael Doss
Craig Krenzel
Donnie Nickey
Jim Tressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
COACH JIM TRESSEL:  We are so proud of those 13 seniors and we're so proud of those coaches, the leadership that those two groups gave were unbelievable.  You know, the fact that the younger players believed in the coach and older players and our crowd was electric and energized our kids.  Miami played their hearts out.  That's what the national championship should look like, double overtime. 
 
Q.   Coach, you tell a story when you first one your 1 AA Championship, they asked you can you repeat it.  Ou said, "I'm going to keep the tradition alive."
 
COACH JIM TRESSEL:  You guys are a little slower than they were.  They hustled a little bit more, they asked me when I got off the field.  They're going to enjoy this.  They're going to celebrate with class.  They're going to take a deep breath after playing 14 tough football games.  The younger guys are going to be back in school on Monday.  We probably won't scurry them off to the gym too quickly.  Life is about what comes up next.  You know, we'll go to work fairly soon. 
 
Q.   Coach, can you talk about the two fourth down plays in the first overtime and how key those were and the plays you had called there?
 
COACH JIM TRESSEL:  If we didn't make it, we wouldn't be here.  That's pretty key.  Krenzel stepped up.  Michael Jenkins ran a great route and got the first and then on the next one, you know, I think we had an interference call, I think on the next one.  Chris Gamble was open and got interfered with.  Craig called that play.  We had a timeout.  Then I think it was Maurice Clarett that scored the last one, I think, and, you know, that's how you win championships:  You make plays.  You keep playing and make plays.  Our guys kept playing and we're fortunate we made plays. Miami kept playing.  They have nothing to hang their heads about.  They're a great football team. 
 
Q.   Can you talk about Krenzel outplaying a Heisman finalist?
 
COACH JIM TRESSEL:  All I know is Krenzel did for us what we needed done.  He led the team, fought like crazy, he made plays, most especially when they had to be made.  He's tough.  Probably the number one characteristic that a quarterback better have, especially a quarterback at Ohio State, he better be tough.  He's tough.  He played tough.  Number 11 played pretty well over there. 
 
Q.   This is for Michael.  All week long you heard about Miami's speed and talent.  How much did that eat at you guys.  How much did you use it as a motivational type of thing?
 
MICHAEL DOSS:  Out there on the field there we felt we could play with anybody in the country.  We decided to play it out on the field.  That's where it counts. 
 
Q.   Coach, 14-and-0 is unprecedented. I would like you to comment on that.  At the beginning of the year you mentioned a long season was what you liked.  Do you still feel that?
 
COACH JIM TRESSEL:  We knew our two-deep was going to be full of a lot of people.  We have some great seniors and red-shirted juniors that were going to be contributors.  A long season was going to be to our benefit if we stayed healthy and used it right and if we kept trying to get it better.  If you have the good toughness and staying power a long, heavyweighted bout is what they're suited for. 
 
Q.   Coach, how much of a difference did your crowd make tonight?
 
COACH JIM TRESSEL:  Our crowd was unbelievable.  If felt like a home game.  The crowd was loud when we needed it loud and not quite that loud when we needed it softer.  I think we came out a little bit hyped up.  We were excited to play.  We had a couple of penalties and that type of thing.  Once we got our feet on the ground and felt the electricity of the crowd, our guys slugged away like crazy. 
 
Q.   Coach, are you going to get the cornrows now?
 
COACH JIM TRESSEL:  I got to get my hair a little longer they say.  I'll have to grow it out for a couple days and then we'll have to get some cornrows. 
 
Q.   This one's for Mike.  Mike, you say you were coming back this year to match your high school championship with a national championship.  Mission accomplished.  How does it feel?
 
MICHAEL DOSS:  I'll give credit to my teammates and glory to God.  I've won Championships since I was eight years old.  It's a great honor and blessing.  
 
Q.   Coach, you talked in one of the earlier press conferences about not showing much emotion.  Have you let it go?  Did you let go a little bit in the locker room?
 
COACH JIM TRESSEL:  The game was decided so late I didn't have time to really get ready to emote, but, you know, just what we did in the locker room and on the field is try to find all the people that were special in our lives and we appreciate their role in this particular day.  This day is a culmination of a lot of work and sacrifice.  Our coaches are tireless workers and our players sacrificed tremendously.  What we did is found each other and hugged each other and reminded each other how much we loved one another. 
 
Q.   You guys topped yourselves in the two fourth-down passes, Craig, in overtime.  Can you talk about those. 
 
CRAIG KRENZEL:  You know, the first one I was fourth and long, you know.  They have been playing us in cover two-man, especially in Mike Jenkins' size, because they knew about his ability to go up and catch the ball.  Our offensive line did a great job of protecting me, giving me time to step out and Mike time to run his route.  The rest is history.  You know, after I threw that, I got hit.  As I was getting hit, the ball was in the air.  I saw contact going on in the corner.  The ball fell incomplete and their team rushed the field, and I sat there and to be honest it was a feeling of dejection, thinking the game was over, knowing how hard we played and how much effort we put in, and just at that time thinking we weren't victorious.  I thought there was contact but I didn't see the flag until after I got up.  I think it was the right call. 
 
Q.   Coach, there were a lot of people who said Ohio State didn't have a shot of winning this game before it was played.  What did you have to do to keep that from affecting your players' attitudes?
 
COACH JIM TRESSEL:  Our guys know what they are capable of and what they can accomplish.  Our guys had every confidence going into the football game, that we would compete.  We knew they were a great football team and we had not played them before.  So you didn't know for sure exactly what the match-up would be.  I would say it was a pretty even match-up.  Two great heavyweights slugging it out.  We came up with the win.  Our guys had every confidence we had that ability. 
 
Q.   Coach, you talked about six weeks ago breaking down films and trying to winnow down 150 plays.  When did you really start to know that you matched up really well with these guys?
 
COACH JIM TRESSEL:  You know I think the more you get to know a team you feel as if you can put things together to match up with them.  I thought our defensive staff did a good job.  We had a good plan offensively and special teams-wise.  We wanted to kick those punts out of bounds and we did pretty well except for that one.  That almost cost us the football game.  I think we had a good plan and our guys were focused on studying that film and I think it had a lot of good design to it, close to the board. 
 
Q.   Donnie, we'll give you this one.  You played in a lot of close games down the stretch.  Did that experience help you at all tonight. 
 
DONNIE NICKEY:  I think so, a little bit.  We've done that all season.  We never panic, never give up, no surrender all season. 
 
Q.   Coach, on the fourth down play in the first overtime with the late flag, did you think the game was over?
 
COACH JIM TRESSEL:  I thought that there was interference.  I did not see a flag for a moment.  I thought "isn't that a shame," because I think the ball was thrown well.  As I mentioned earlier, Craig came up with the thought on the play for Chris to do the route he did.  I thought he got interfered with.  I didn't see a flag.  You know we don't complain about things if they don't go our way.  It was good to see that guy come up in the back of the endzone and make what I thought was a good call. 
 
Q.   Maurice Clarett had two touchdowns and stripped and recovered a fumble.  What did he say to you?
 
COACH JIM TRESSEL:  Maurice Clarett is a tremendous competitor and gives tremendous effort, as evidenced by the great strip on the interception and so forth.  I think he's probably relieved, you know, to be walking out the doors as the national champions and he's probably happy he's not sitting up here with us right now.  He's probable enjoying hugging people in the locker room. 
 
Q.   Can each of you talk about how they will celebrate the win?
 
DONNIE NICKEY:  I'm going to find my family as soon as I can and get lost in the moment for a while. 
 
MICHAEL DOSS:  Same here.  My family is down here and enjoying this win.  Also my teammates, we worked hard for this.  I would like to give credit to all those guys and to finish on this note and be a senior, it's great. 
 
CRAIG KRENZEL:  The same answer as these two guys.  My family, they're the greatest people in the world.  I want to be with them and my teammates, relax a little bit and enjoy the moment.  Tomorrow I'm going to enjoy the beautiful weather and try and get a round of golf in before I go home. 
 
Q.   Michael and Donnie, defensively you guys got three great takeaways that led to 17 points. Can you talk about the defensive play that set the tone for the first half and got you in a position to win this game?
 
MICHAEL DOSS:  You know, our coach harped all week about having plus-2 turnovers and I got a blessing with a tipped pass.  We continued to go out there and make plays.  Our D line played excellent today and they put pressure on Dorsey and he through the ball up. 
 
Q.   Michael, you wanted to play Miami because you started your career against Miami.  You said we'll see how the final chapter is written.  Can you talk about that?  Coach, two years, did you have a timetable?  Are you ahead of schedule more so by what you thought you would be?
 
MICHAEL DOSS:  Actually in my career all the teams I've played, I either split 500 or I won.  To lose to Miami, that gave me motivation to win this game.  I had luck with that.  And then 13, 13, 13, everywhere, it had to be one more game.  It feels great to become national champions. 
 
COACH JIM TRESSEL:  Oh, yeah, one of those timetable questions.  I forgot.  We had hoped to win it in 2002 but we didn't do the things we needed to do to be the champions.  We set out to learn from those things.  Our guys started really in late January and February formulating the plans and goals and what needed to be done and the amount of work they've put in between late January of '02 and January 3rd of '03 is unbelievable and they deserve everything they get. 
 
Q.   For Donnie and Mike, in the final defensive state with what was going on on the field, what was being said in the huddle or was it business as usual?
 
DONNIE NICKEY:  What was being said?  I don't know, man.  I think everybody  -- we have been in that situation before.  We knew what was on the line.  Whatever was said was based on football.  We all believed in each other.  We knew we had the heart to take this thing home and we did it. 
 
MICHAEL DOSS:  I think myself, I just said somebody has to make a play, let everyone step up.  This is the last play in the world.  At least once a week we have one play where it's the last play in the world and it means everything.  We stepped up to the challenge. 
 
Q.   For Michael and Craig, I can see even as this thing moves along, I can see the thing sinking in.  Talk about the magnitude of what you guys have just done. 
 
MICHAEL DOSS:  It's still unbelievable to hear those fireworks go off and rush the field.  We won the game but it was the game on the national stage, two overtimes.  We're sitting here looking at each other.  We're little kids in the candystore.  It's Christmas for us.  I'd like to give all the glory to God once again.  
 
COACH JIM TRESSEL:  Just so you all know, this is the guy who led us to our last national championship, Number 10, Rex Kern.  
 
REX KERN:  I want to congratulate you and your team, the way that you won and doing what you guys set out to do.  We're proud of the football team and our coach and what you've accomplished.  And timetables, they always want to tie you down.  I would give a comment of what Woody would say but I won't.  Congratulations.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT