DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN
July 5, 2019
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Pádraig, 63 yesterday was a magical Thursday as we discussed, 73 today.  How would you compare the two, obviously the change in conditions today for the first seven holes and then it brightened up a bit?
PÁDRAIG HARRINGTON: It was longer than seven holes of bad weather.  Look, you go out there, you're tentative, and it really was tough conditions.  You know, all my bogeys, like three of them were three-putts, the other two were chips from the edge of the greens, so I could have negated them with a good short game, and you need a good short game on a bad day, as it was.  You know, just the two of those things, a bit tentative, and I could have been a little sharper with the short game.
Q. Back nine there, obviously nice way to finish, great look for eagle and a birdie to walk off with?
PÁDRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah, I thought I was going to hole the eagle.
Q. We did, as well.
PÁDRAIG HARRINGTON: You'd think things like that were going to happen.  Yeah, look, you have to stick in there.  As I said, I was a little bit better on the back nine, but the conditions improved a lot.  It really felt tough early on, and I had no momentum.  A couple of bad mistakes early on, not getting up-and-down on the 1st and the 3rd and little things like that, and all of a sudden you're fighting it for most of the day.  You know, obviously the leaders have done well and maybe the afternoon guys are going to get a bit of an advantage with the weather, but hopefully I haven't done too much damage.  4-under par is still somewhat in it.
Q. And you fought back, and you took the long-game approach yesterday, not getting too far ahead of yourself.  You are right there, and clearly yesterday gave you a massive boost and you're going to have all the support you need over the weekend?
PÁDRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah, absolutely.  I don't lack support, that's for sure.  As I said yesterday, shooting a low one the first day gives you a lot of different scenarios.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT