U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2013
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   A strange scenario to have to sleep on that and also to finish as strongly as you did and have birdie chances today as well?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Yeah, going down 15, I'm three off the lead and I'm really pushing for the lead.   I double bogeyed.   All of a sudden now I'm four over par and I'm starting to wonder.   It goes very quickly from looking at being right in it to, okay, don't let it slip too far. 
Obviously I came back today, the weather was lovely this morning.   And I had two very good chances on 16 and 17 for birdie.   The greens are quick. 
After a good drive on 18, I missed a green, long left, I hit it right.   So thankfully it didn't do me too much damage and I chipped it back to five feet and held that.   A couple of nice putts after missing the one on 18 yesterday.

Q.   You find yourself five shots the off the lead, you know how doable it is from that point?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Absolutely.   The only thing I need a big weekend.   I'm 4 over par.   Obviously if you're level par, you need a good weekend.   It's doable, but obviously it would be a lot nicer if I had a couple birdies yesterday and got in at 1‑under. 

Q.   Your game looks like you can do something that's good and decent over two rounds?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Yeah, there's plenty of potential in my game.   We all love a bit of potential.   Yeah, there's possibilities.   So I've got to trust it for the weekend and let it happen.

Q.   Merion has shown some teeth without hardly any wind on a soft golf course.   This has been a unique U.S. Open?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   It's very unique, no doubt about it.   At the end of the day, what they've proved is they can put the pins tougher if they need to put it tougher if the scoring was better.   Obviously it hasn't been. 
There's certain fairways out there that are really difficult to hit.   With soft fairways we were wondering if they are fair if not impossible.   The golf course is always the same at the U.S. Open.   At the end of the week, if you shoot around even par you're going to be close.

Q.   You have not too quick a turnaround?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   I think I need two good rounds, to be honest with you.   We'll wait and see. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT