VALERO TEXAS OPEN
April 6, 2013
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How was that 18th hole?   
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   It was tough.   It was tougher than the first morning because it wasn't cold, but it was blowing a bit stronger for sure.   It was tricky enough on the greens with the wind blowing.   It's been gusting as well, so (Indiscernible) the wind which always makes it awkward.  
   
 Q.   You're still in good position.   No one's running away with this.   
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   I saw 10‑under.  
   
 Q.   Yeah, but that's not running away with it; is it?   
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Yeah, I could have been two or three comfortably better which would have put me in a lovely position going into tomorrow.   Obviously, where I stand, I need to have a very big day tomorrow.   I have some work to do.   (Indiscernible) I'm not saying I can't win the tournament, but it's not completely in my own hands.   Even birdieing the last, if I had birdied the last I would be in second within distance at the end of the day.   (Indiscernible).   It's a lot to ask for tomorrow.   I'll just try to shoot the best score I can.  
   
 Q.   You've seen this course now with wind from the north, cold, you've seen it pretty benign yesterday, and now you've seen the wind from the south pretty brisk.   How does this course stack up to some you've played?   
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Yeah, it's very good.   It does change; there is no doubt about it.   A hole that could change direction, you've got a hole that could be difficult and all of a sudden very easy, and vice versa.   
So, yeah, I like that with a golf course when it changes around a lot.   Yeah, I think it's good play.  
   
 Q.   You talked the other day about you're actually very good in these kind of inclement situations as far as the wind.   
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Yeah, as I said, I shot my two best scores on windy days and didn't do so well yesterday, so, yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT