THE BARCLAYS
August 23, 2012
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about your round today.   
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   The course is super.   We had super conditions today.   Obviously it was perfect for playing golf.   I think it's ideal to‑‑ Bethpage is a big, strong golf course, and we got it on a very calm day, which was in our favor.   
I think I started out certainly the first couple of holes very much in the U.S. Open mindset and was happy to be making pars.   Troy Matteson, he got off to a really good start.   He was 3‑under early on.   If anything it really helped me because I could see that, hey, this wasn't a U.S. Open, there was birdies to be made.   He made an eagle.   Wow, an eagle!   Imagine making an eagle at a U.S. Open.   
So you have to get out of that mindset because level par isn't winning the tournament this week.   It isn't a U.S. Open.   It isn't going to be like that.   It's a big, strong golf course, but it's set up nicely.   You have to get into the mindset that you've got to make some birdies.   
There are some big holes out there, and you have to take your medicine at times and be happy to play into the center of the green.   
The greens are speeding up.   There's plenty of pace in them.   So you have to be wary when you're putting on them.   You can't go at the hole on any putt.   But I think overall it's a playoff, and you've got to get out there and‑‑ it's probably going to be a 12‑under par winning total this week or something like that.   It's not going to be a level par one.   So you kind of got to get your head around that.   
   
 Q.   How is it different?  
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   The rough isn't as heavy.   The rough isn't as heavy, and the pressure isn't the same.   
Classic example of that is Torrey Pines.   When the U.S. Open was there, I think it was easier than‑‑ or certainly as easy as a regular Torrey Pines event, yet level par against 20‑under par or something.   It's amazing the difference, the pressure a major brings.   
But here you're going to have more players prepared to shoot low numbers, and as I said, if you want to win this tournament and do well in the Playoffs, you've got to get your head around it.   
Every event, and probably even more the FedEx Playoffs, the difference between that and a major, a major always feels like a marathon.   It's a long haul.   You don't mind somebody running off because he's going to come back, whereas at a FedEx event, you want to get a good start.   It's a bit of a sprint.   You don't want to be left behind.   
But at a major you don't mind being left behind as long as you're in the tournament because unless you're Rory, not too many people run away from the field in majors.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel as if this is your final audition for the Ryder Cup, or do you feel no matter what you do it's out of your hands and there's nothing you can do?   
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   You seem to be answering your own questions there.   You can only have questions, and the only answer I can give at this stage is I'm pleading the Fifth Amendment on that one.   I honestly don't know what to say.   I don't want to go in there and try too desperately to beg for a pick, or I don't want to go in there and give excuses for anything.   I'll just leave it be what it is.   I'm just going to play golf.   
   
 Q.   Is it on your mind?  
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Yeah, it's on my mind, no doubt about it.   I think it was more on my mind at the PGA.   Yeah, definitely.  
   
 Q.   Is there an equivalent of the Fifth Amendment in Ireland?  
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   No.   I don't think you have that right.   (Laughter.)  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT