PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2012
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I know you want to get out of here, but you had a pretty good round out there.   How did it feel?  
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Yeah, it was a good round overall.   There were some highs, and made a very bad double bogey on 10, but I got it going right on the last couple holes.   So I finished it off solid, that kind of makes up for it.   I think through 16 holes I felt like I'd left a number of shots out there, but to hole a bunker shot on 17 and then to get up‑and‑down from 35 yards on the last, yeah, I've got to be comfortable.   That's the score I sort of deserved today.  
It depends on the leaders.   This weather could change everything.   The guys could come back out after this and it could be flat calm and they could make some numbers.   I would have rather it just stayed the way it was, the same conditions as we played.   Who knows what's going to happen now.   Obviously I'm 1‑under par, what's it, 6‑under leading now?   6‑under is not too far away, but if there's a lot of guys up there at 6‑under or if there's a few more, it's too much for me to do tomorrow maybe.   But to hang in there and‑‑ if 4‑under is in the last couple of groups, it means 1‑under still has a chance.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about getting your round in, not having to worry about the weather, and you get your night off now, you get to go have dinner, relax and come back and play a Sunday round?  
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Yeah, but I think it could work against it.   The guys might come back out and it could be flat calm.   It could be a good break, but it could be a bad break, as well.   We'll just have to wait and see how it all pans out.   But I would have settled for the guys to play the same conditions we played and have them play the back nine in the wind because the back nine was a lot tougher than the front nine, and there's not too many to make too much headway on the front nine.   I would have loved to have seen them play the same conditions, but it's not to be, so we'll see what happens.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT