PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2012
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Happy with the score in itself, but could have been a few better.

Q.   You're actually swinging the club very well, yeah?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   I'm getting in the way of swinging it well at times, so yeah, hit it really well on the range starting off, so yeah, my short game‑‑ there's a couple of par‑5s maybe, a couple of places I didn't want to miss, and certainly could have been a few better, but then I did hole two long putts, so that's a bonus.

Q.   At the Irish Open you said you needed to trust your swing. 
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Yeah, I need to trust my putting now, and my chipping.   I've been working on my chipping and putting quite a bit, and it's just not quite there as of yet.   It certainly wasn't bad today in any shape or form, but I'd love to get out of my own way and let it happen on the short game as well as the long game.   I hit a lot of nice shots on the back nine there when I settled down.

Q.   How impressed with Phil Mickelson today?   He scrambled like Harrington used to scramble. 
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Yeah, it was very impressive, yes, and he hit his wedges lovely, he chipped and putted lovely. 
We didn't get the easier part of the day, and a lot of the pins were cut on the side of the green that the wind was blowing from, so they were very awkward pins, especially early on.   We were ruing our luck a little bit for a while, but 70 is a reasonable score.   I did leave a number of shots out there, and I think it could have been better, but I holed two long putts in the round, and they were bonuses.   Overall I can't really do much about it at the moment. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   I didn't have to chip too often.   I could have a little bit more flow in it, yes.   I've just got to trust it and let it happen.   I think I did a good job trying to do the right things today even if I didn't succeed all the time.   But that should lead to good stuff over the next couple of days.

Q.   And on the ball‑striking side would you say you left a number of shots out there tee to green?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   No, I hit lots of good golf shots out there.   Yeah, I definitely left a few shots out there.   I really didn't get myself in trouble all day, a couple of dropped shots and then really the par‑5s I left a few‑‑ one or two actually that could have been better.   As I said, it was a little bit windy starting out, so 70 is not a bad return. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT