THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2012
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   It was very difficult early on going out with the wind.   I think I played the first eight holes in 2‑under par, and that was probably as bad as it could have been for those holes.   Yeah, it was a bad return coming home.   I hit two great shots up 11 to make bogey, I hit a great second shot into 15 to make bogey, and I hit a reasonable wedge into 16 to make bogey.   So they all came off great shots.   So I really don't feel so good.

Q.   Was there a reason?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   No, that's golf.   That's the way it is.   I'd like to have‑‑ I don't know, I'd like to have them back, but that's the nature of the game.   There were some tough pins, crowned pins out there today.   So like there wasn't too much simple shots.   So, yeah, it was easy enough to make mistakes, but as I said, you know, bar 18, my bogeys came off holes I played well.

Q.   You when you were playing well it looked like you were playing really well.   What do you think for the weekend?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Absolutely.   It's frustrating.   As I said, I was 2‑under par looking to go forward, and obviously with 10‑under leading, if you're in there 3 or 4, you know you're well in the tournament.   At 2‑over you're hoping for miracles on the weekend.

Q.   Do you feel the confidence to go chase this?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Oh, I think you can chase it, yeah.   But as I said, you need to get the breaks.   I'm depending on getting breaks tomorrow.   If I was 3‑under par or so I'd be depending on just playing good golf, whereas now I'm depending on playing good golf and getting a little bit lucky.

Q.   You said yesterday you were maybe a little bit too respectful of majors. 
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Pin positions were ‑‑ I think the course is much tougher.   Our front nine was really difficult and the pin positions were a lot tougher.   A lot of crowned pins.   An awful lot of crowned pins out there.   They went all out today, definitely made it a lot tougher.
So as I said, it's a pity, certainly an opportunity missed.

Q.   Next best in is 2‑under (inaudible). 
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Yeah, as I said, the pin positions and the conditions we played in were definitely difficult.   What can I say?   You get in the right position you might be putting up‑‑ well, up and over all day.   It was tough to leave yourself in real easy positions.   But‑‑

Q.   (Inaudible.)
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   I'm disappointed, yeah, I'm really disappointed.   The 4‑over on the last seven holes, you know, I was coasting along there and I hit good shots coming home.   Yeah, I'm disappointed with that.   I certainly‑‑ as I said, you know, 11, 15 and 16 were ‑ the shots that made the bogeys weren't that bad shots, so it is a disappointing one.   Certainly I'll have a long day ahead of me thinking about those.

Q.   How impressed are you by what Brandt Snedeker is doing today? 
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   That's very impressive.   He's obviously playing super golf and, as I said, the pin positions were tricky today, and the conditions were very difficult early on.   Holes that were 3‑wood, 7‑iron yesterday were driver, 3‑iron today.   It was tough early on and he's obviously playing some great golf.

Q.   What did you do at the par‑5? 
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   I hit two great shots into greenside bunker.   Maybe I was a bit careless hitting up.   I had a long bunker shot to a crowned pin, and I tried to fire it in there and I got too much of the ball, I hit it over the green and then played a poor chip back to 10 feet and missed the putt.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Well, I holed an eight‑footer on the 18th, which at the time I was putting ‑‑ well, maybe not eight feet, but certainly six feet.   At the time I was putting I thought it certainly would make a long day looking at the cut line, so it was a nice putt to hole.   I'm happy about that. 
But I hit a poor tee shot and hit a great third shot in there and still missed the front of the green.   I was surprised it came up so short.   But as it turned out, 3‑over is going to be making the cut, but as I said, I didn't know at the time.   It was a nice putt to hole.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   No, I hit my tee shot into the left trap and just chipped it out.   No way forward, really.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Hit it six feet by.   I tell you what, it's a good pin for making birdie, but if you don't get past the hole it's a tough two‑putt.   It was a great bogey, as it turned out.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   No, no, the onebunker I was in was ‑‑ was I in one bunker only?   All I can remember being in is 11, and it was‑‑ oh, yeah, 18.   But that's a fairway bunker.   The one on 11 was dry and powdery.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Who knows.   Who knows.   It won't be for lack of trying, anyway.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Well, you know, I shot two 66's on the weekend before, and certainly something like that ‑‑ as good at Brandt Snedeker's 10‑under is, there's not too many people out there pressing.   If he's out there on his own, the likelihood is he'll come back to the field.   If a couple of other guys get to seven or eight, the likelihood is that they'll all move to 11 or 12 sort of thing.   It's hard to be isolated on your own at the top of the leaderboard, as I said.   The best thing for me would be that he has a big lead.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Yeah, looks like that.

Q.   Have a go and‑‑
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Yeah, 50/50 chance, I suppose, of us being together.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   The forecast is for no wind, isn't it?   So that's no use to me tomorrow if I'm out early.

Q.   Do you like the wind?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   I think I need the wind, no matter what. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Yeah, a rising tide gets all ships.   So you'd be hoping that your playing partner plays really well and the two of you could go along like that.   You see putts going in, it's easier to make putts yourself.   So yeah, hopefully that will be the case that we'll all charge up the leaderboard.   We're all for believing it, hopefully. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT