THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2012
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   I didn't really put myself in much trouble all day.   So, yeah, I think the 70 reflects how I played.   But I definitely could play a little bit better if I got out of my own way.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the conditions?   I apologise if you already said something about it, but as far as the whole change throughout the day and how it affected you?  
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   You know, they did change, and obviously we had a bit of wind and it obviously got a little cooler later on and we had a little bit of rain.   And sometimes you would moan that we got the wrong side of the draw today or everything went wrong, but it wasn't that severe.   So we can't really moan about it.   There was a little there, but it wasn't severe enough‑‑ at no stage did any hole play really too bad out there.   So, no, certainly we got the wrong side of it, but there's no moaning about it, it wasn't that hard.  
   
 Q.   I know conditions changed (inaudible)?   
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   No, no idea.   No idea.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Oh, absolutely.   And as I said, you go out there, and certainly I would have overestimated‑‑ you would think I would know better.   I thought in the calmer weather, the pin positions were very generous.   You could go at most of the pins.   Yeah, very generous.   I think if you asked me on a Wednesday would I take level par on the first round of a major I would say, yeah, definitely.   But the pins were a little easier than level par and it's reflected in the scoring.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Oh, I think this is a good golf course, a fair golf course.   And I think it's‑‑ I don't think it's going to‑‑ it's not tricky or anything like that, so I can't see it in any shape or form throwing up an odd winner this week.   It's a solid a golf course as you could want.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   I think too much respect for major tournaments, that's where I went wrong.   Just a little bit too tentative and cautious and not wanting to make mistakes.   I think the course conditions were good enough that you could be more aggressive, a little bit more aggressive than you would normally be at a major.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Well, look, still in the tournament, so it's not‑‑ you know.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   It was not disastrously out of place, no.   It seemed all reasonably solid.   The only thing I would look for between now and tomorrow is a bit more getting my head in the right place, just a little bit more trust.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT