U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2012
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   (Inaudible.)
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   You have to be defensive out there.   The greens are firm and you're just a little bit apprehensive all the time.   So I think 70 is a fair reflection.   I would like to have relaxed a little bit more and gone after one or two.   I made a couple of my bogeys got a little unlucky on one or two and made a couple of mistake as well. 
So I would take 70 every day out there.   It's just unfortunate.   I probably played a little bit better yesterday and putted badly and a 4‑over par I have a lot of work to do whereas if I putted like I putted today yesterday I would be in around level par and kind of sitting there for the weekend. 

Q.   I spoke to our caddie asked him how you were playing and a very broad smile came across his face.   Did you like the course when you first saw it?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Yeah, I really liked the golf course.   Obviously, I feel like I've been playing well and for awhile I actually don't feel like I'm on top of my game at all this week; but my putting has come back and certainly it did last week.   It's starting to feel better with my putting.   I putted terrible yesterday.   That was disappointing and certainly it was unexpected.   Today was a better day on the greens and it's reflected in the score.

Q.   Obviously at the Masters you were right up there and didn't putt particularly well the final day.   How are you feeling about your chances this weekend?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Unfortunately, I have to somehow, 4‑over par, you kind of think I'm going to have to come back somewhat.   I got to get, you got to think level par is going to have a great chance of winning this tournament.   I don't see 4‑over getting the job done. 
So I'm going to have to find some birdies and which there are birdies out there, there's plenty of birdies to be made.   Obviously plenty of bogeys too, but I got to take on a few more shots over the weekend, and as I said, just relax a little bit and not worry so much about dropping a shot and hope that I make more birdies than bogeys. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT