MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 7, 2012
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about your day out there.   
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   I suppose I'd been waiting for it all week.   I know my game has been good.   I've been struggling a bit with my putting.   I've putted better this week but probably didn't play quite as well.   Just trying to keep a good attitude and be patient.   
I saw the change‑around with a good attitude with my short game this week and I was trying to bring that to my long game today, and it seemed to work out nicely.   I got a lovely run there on the back nine and made the most of it when I got it.   It's nice to hit good shots but also to convert them at the right time.   So yeah, very pleased with that.   
   
 Q.   You said on Wednesday that you were keen to win another major.   
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   I didn't say that.   I said majors.   I didn't use the singular.   (Laughter.)  
   
 Q.   Well, you sounded confident the other day and you were talking about peaking.   Do you feel right now your game might be coming to a peak?   
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   I definitely think there's cycles in this game.   When I look at major winners over time, certainly multiple major winners over time, they never all won them together; it took them 10, 15, 20 years to win their majors.   Nobody has won more majors than I have in the last five years, so I kind of see this as cycles that you win some, you don't win some and then you come back and win some.   And if I don't say I'm going to win some, who else is going to say it?   
It doesn't matter whether it happens or not, I'd better believe it or nobody else is going to believe it.   Might as well be positive.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Yeah, yeah, absolutely, no doubt about it.   I like what I see in my game.   I think it's going forward big‑time at the moment.   I don't feel like I've‑‑ which often the case when you're doing well in a tournament.   I don't feel in any shape or form that I've maxed out this week.   I feel well within myself.   I don't know what's going to happen tomorrow.   I don't know how far I'm going to be behind the lead going into tomorrow.   I don't know what I'm going to need to do.   But I'm very happy with where I am with my game.   
I see good things going forward.   I see a nice up cycle now, and hopefully some more majors.   
   
 Q.   How do you want that confidence to manifest the most tomorrow in the final round?   
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   I think by not wanting it so much.   That would be the key for me.   I think having won three majors, you get‑‑ I think all majors you get drawn into‑‑ you had such a high, such a peak that you want that all the time, and you're desperate to win another one.   And certainly I've‑‑ over the years I've talked to major winners, and it's amazing how much they want the next one.   
So to be honest, the way I'm going to do it is just play my game and not want it so much, not be so desperate or anything like that, just know it's going to happen.   
   
 Q.   Did the change in course conditions help you much today?   
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Did they change?   They did a little bit, yes.   You know what, they were‑‑ you take it as it comes, so it wasn't a massive change.   The greens on the back nine did get a little firmer, but up to that they weren't that firm.   Yeah, there was a little change, but not massively significant.   I would suggest it's possible it would be firmer again tomorrow and maybe because of that a little drier, a little bit more speed in the greens.  
I think I'm comfortable with whatever conditions they throw at us.   I don't mind if it's soft and I don't mind if it's firm.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT