MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 6, 2012
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   It's okay.   Five shots behind.   I need to play well on the weekend, but certainly it's within reach and there's obviously a number of players.   Of course there were some good signs in the game.   Just trust in it a little bit more in the weekend, and certainly we can make up those five shots.

Q.   Do you have that sort of round in you, a 68, that would really propel you into a situation where you would be in contention on Sunday?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   I shot 61 on a tough course a few weeks, so I must have it in me.   Yeah, I definitely ‑‑ the game is, as I said yesterday, from the week of practice, my game has been good this week.   So I'm just waiting for the other part to kick in, as well.

Q.   You ground away today on a lot of putts that really mattered, the 3 to 6 to 8 footers.   Again, two days in a row you seem to do quite well with them?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   A couple of different periods in the round, in the middle of the round I made a few bogeys.   Then I had to keep it steady, you know. 
Then towards the end, I had to make some birdie chances.   None of those dropped, but it was nice to get up‑and‑down on the last two holes.   I think if I hadn't got up‑and‑down on the last two holes, maybe I would have been a little disappointed for having missed those few birdie chances.   It was sweet to hole that 6 footer on the last.

Q.   There are about 50 players in contention.   You are one of them and that's a good feeling at the Masters, isn't it? 
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   You know, five shots is not much in a major.   Obviously there's a lot of players.   Whoever is going to win this tournament is going to have to play well on the weekend.   Let's hope it's me.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   You can't do anything about that. 

Q.   Do you like it?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   I wouldn't be ‑‑ I like ‑‑ I do actually like soft greens.   I can take spin off my shots, so I'm happy about that and it gives me a little bit more room with my chip shots because I can spin my chip shots and stop them on soft greens. 
I would be quite comfortable if it stayed the way it is, but I don't get a choice in that matter. 

Q.   It might create a bit more of separation?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   No doubt about it.   No doubt it would.   I'm sure they would like it to be firmer for the first two days, but nature didn't let it happen that way.

Q.   Yesterday was your putting, what pleased you most about today? 
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Same again.   I hit a lot of good solid putts.   Some of them were ‑‑ I holed a few short ones but I hit a lot of nice putts.   I was comfortable with putts today, as comfortable as I've been for a long time.

Q.   There's a huge mixture of guys up there, as well?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Yeah, it is interesting.   It shows this golf course can be played a number of different ways, that's for sure. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT