MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 5, 2012
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Very nice start, and in many ways you finished well.   
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   No, I'm pleased.   I think I'm more pleased with the score.   There's very few players burning it up, let's say.   Conditions are very good out there for scoring in terms of there's no wind, greens are soft.   But I think they were aware of that and put in some tough pins today.   While you can go at every pin out there, if you're slightly out, you've got your work cut out to make a par.  
   
 Q.   You made a great eagle on the 2nd to set the tone for the round and gave you something to put in the bank.   
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Yeah, I think that's exactly as it was.   There was something in the bank.   I made a couple of bogeys after that, but I was never over par and always thought I was going to shoot under par today after that.   So it was a good start to the round to get the piece of crystal in early.   
   
 Q.   You putted very well inside that range of 10 feet that you've admitted has given you some problems.   Is that just a turn of fortune do you think?  
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Could be.   Could be.   I made a few changes this week, and I was very happy with what I saw out there today.   Whether it continues like this for the next couple of days, I don't know, but it certainly is the right road to be going down over the next number of weeks and things like that.   So I'm very positive about that side.   It looks like I turned a little bit of a corner with the putting.   I've been playing very nicely besides that, so I didn't play as well today, but hopefully over the next few days I'll put the two together.  
   
 Q.   You start the Masters more often than not with a bad first round.   You're not behind the 8‑ball this time.   You've got a nice round under your belt.   How much does that give you a good feeling that this could be a good week?  
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   I am relaxed.   My putting has put these things in perspective, and I did put it in perspective, and yeah, I'm very relaxed about it.   My whole game, I know it's good, and at the end of the day I'll just let it happen, play away and see what the result is.   But to be honest, I'm not trying to put too much emphasis on the results.   Just play golf and see what happens.   
   
 Q.   What club did you hit into the 2nd?   
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   I hit 5‑iron, and I have no idea how far I had.   229, something like that.  
   
 Q.   Were you cutting the putts?  
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   I wouldn't comment on technical things, major whatsoever.   I'm back holing putts.   That's all I know.  
   
 Q.   What did Ronan say to you on the 15th?   He seemed to be amused.   
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Well, obviously I was trying to hit it right of the pin, not left of the pin.   It was fine when it came out.   We actually thought it was going to the back of the green.   But the last 50 yards of it, the wind gusted up.   I always thought it was over.   He obviously had a little bit of a moment.   
   
 Q.   What club were you hitting there?  
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   5‑wood.   
   
 Q.   How did you play the 15th?  
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   I hit a really good drive.   I hit a 5‑wood to 18 feet I'd say, missed it for eagle.   I would have said it's probably the only putt of the day I got a little bit frustrated on, but the rest of them‑‑  
   
 Q.   How far were you from the back edge?  
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   I had 249.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the old par‑3 thing and stuff like that.   
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Well, obviously if I win it, I don't believe if that.   I've never teed up and played a tournament where I didn't try on every shot, so I wouldn't play if I wasn't trying.   I like winning.   
   
 Q.   I heard someone had you 30 to 1 in the par‑3.   
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Obviously as a player I'm not allowed to gamble.   
   
 Q.   What pleased you most about the day today?   Putting?   
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Yeah, putting.   I missed a couple of putts and it didn't bother me.   9th hole‑‑ I holed a couple of putts, missed a couple of putts.   Yeah, good.   I liked what I saw.   The parts of my game that weren't so good have been good as of late.   
I made a couple of good par saves out there.   I hit a lovely shot into 17.   I made a good par save on 14.   I didn't make a good par save on 7.   I thought I was going to make a good par save.   I hit the ball fine.   I was good with my‑‑ it was just very hard to make myself hit it into the green.   The rest of it was quite decent.   I fired at a lot of pin positions because I felt good with my irons.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT