THE BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 8, 2011
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How did you enjoy that morning on the links? 
 PÁDRAIG HARRINGTON: It was a beautiful day for golf. Couldn't have asked for nicer conditions out there early, and you know, I was happy with how I played, happy with how things went about, but could have holed a few more putts I suppose. Nice putt in there on my 17th hole and nice to finish, get one more birdie in the bag. I feel comfortable with 8-under par. 

 Q. Are there signs it's all coming together in week?
 PÁDRAIG HARRINGTON: I played better in practise this week, yeah, it is improving. But my Pro-Am day was as good as I could play. I'm not quite there yet but we are moving in the right direction. 

 Q. And I remember you've warmed up in recent years by often winning the Irish PGA, how does this compare as a build-up to Open Championship week?
 PÁDRAIG HARRINGTON: This is great. Obviously at 8-under par, if the lead stayed at 11, I would be okay. Hard-pressed to think it will at 11-under par, but certainly I've still got a good chance going into the weekend as long as nobody sort of moves away from us at the moment.

 Q. And you welcome that extra level of competition the week before The Open? 
 PÁDRAIG HARRINGTON: I like it. This is a big event in itself anyway, and I'd be very happy to win The Scottish Open, so let's focus on this for two more days and then start thinking about The Open on Monday. 

 Q. And is the course there for the taking? 
 PÁDRAIG HARRINGTON: This course is, you've got plenty of opportunities out there. It's a really nice golf course and it does give up a few birdies. You feel under pressure to make those birdies. It's a good golf course, a fair golf course, and certainly you know, going to need a low one on the weekend and hopefully that's going to be me. 

 Q. I can appreciate an awful lot can happen weather-wise, as well as just in terms of competition, but do you forecast a winning score?
 PÁDRAIG HARRINGTON: No, I never do. 

 Q. An indication of what can be shot around here?
 PÁDRAIG HARRINGTON: Well, 64 has been shot. I really don't know what's going to win. As I said, the guys going out this afternoon could move to 13-, 14-under par as it is, and then we have got to think well into the 20s and we'll have to wait and see. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT