THE 147TH OPEN
July 20, 2018
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I suppose, Padraig, just the two days you've had, obviously, you started both of them well, but in the end you're not going to make the cut.  That must be disappointing for you, especially the way you have played at times.
PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Yes, the afternoon's finish, knowing that we're on the wrong side of the draw, those three shots I dropped in the last three holes yesterday afternoon really put me under.  Behind the 8 ball for sure.
Went out there today thinking I've got to make some birdies.  With level par through 14, to make two more coming home was always going to be tough.  I said, those three shots just didn't give me any room yesterday afternoon.
Q. The traffic in Carnoustie this week, you have obviously played well for much of the front nines.  Is it that famous back nine that just offers questions and you know it's coming?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I think -- I'm not 100 percent sure, but I definitely seemed to run out of steam both days.  Maybe I just made it a bit difficult for myself for the first 14 holes even if I was scoring okay.  It's far from stress free, let's put it like that.
So, yeah, it was a bad finish both days, but not much you can do about that.  Just thinking hope it doesn't happen again.
Q. When you say you were out of steam, that's not what you used to do in terms of your physical capacity.  You eat well, your strong and healthy and fit.  So what do you mean by that?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Maybe the course wore me down, that's what I mean.  That's what I'm kind of saying that it's totally you're not creating too many chances, and even if you're getting up and down, it is wearing.  It got the better of me at the end.
Q. That's not something that was ever a weakness for you before.  You were always great at sticking in and waiting for the patience game to work out your way.
PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I don't think it's a weakness.  Just it is what it is this week.  I just had a bad finish both days.  Just looking for answers and in asking questions.  I am not making anything of it.  I really don't know too much.
Q. Schedule-wise, you're back in the States for a stint?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah, three weeks.  Reno, something and something.
Q. On the 6th, interesting the way you played the hole last year.
PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I hit a beautiful drive out of bounds.  It came well back in.  So much so that somebody in my group said "nice shot."  And then it kicked up against the fence.  It kind of straightened in there and then kicked left.  A bit of a shock to finish where we did, but I did hit a nice shot with a 9 iron as well.  It was kind of a bonus, I suppose, at the end of the day.  I would like for it to be out of bounds, but where it finished was obviously very awkward.  I was happy with that birdie, you never know.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT