WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 8, 2011
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PADRAIG HARRINGTON: On the 13th hole somebody came back and said I was teed ahead of the marker, so we went back and had a look at the camera, and it's just not conclusive. Myself, Phil, the two caddies spoke, all standing there. It didn't look at the time -- yeah, it looks close on TV, no doubt about it, but it isn't conclusive. But as I said earlier, for once I'm not going to be a martyr and take it. No, it's just not conclusive, so there's no penalty.

 Q. That's the kind of rule that a professional golfer knows enough not to tee it up in front of the markers even by mistake. 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: You know, I actually tee back quite a lot, but I was pushing forward on that particular one because obviously I was hitting a 6-iron and needed to get there, but as I said, when we went back and looked at it, looked at the thing, it's just not conclusive. In this situation, yeah, there is a possibility, but between the rest of us we didn't see anything odd. It would be very, very odd for me and especially the other guys -- maybe not Phil because he's a left-hander, not to see something there, and we're quite comfortable -- there was nothing that stood out to us at the time and it's inconclusive now even when you look at it. As I said, for once I'm not going to be a martyr and take it; I'm going to say it's not conclusive. 

 Q. You would be happy to live with yourself were it any other way, and I know you're enough of a man that you wouldn't do that. 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Look, I've had a few instances over the years with penalties, and you do have to abide by the rules all the time. As I said, this one is just particularly inconclusive, there's just no reason to say yes, even though it's certainly close when you look at it on TV. The left marker is good. The right marker looks a bit iffy and things like that. But at the end of the day, it just isn't conclusive, and that's where it stays. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT