WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 8, 2011
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Could you explain to us what took place?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah, you know, I obviously teed up very much on the line on 13, and with the divot being ahead of the ball and the tee markers slightly askew, there was a spectator who said I was ahead of the markers.

 Q. Is that how it happened?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah, so we went back and had a look. You know, it's certainly tight when you look at it. The tee markers are a little bit askew. But we didn't see anything at the time. We looked at the TV, and it's not conclusive on the TV. So it really would be a question of being a martyr if I took a penalty at this stage. I've done it before, but no, today it was just inconclusive, and there was -- it happens all the time. We had one on 18 there where 20 players told us that the ball crossed the hazard, 20 spectators told us it crossed one place, and it was ten yards away from where it crossed because we all saw it. 
 You'd be surprised. Players know what's happening out on the golf course, caddies know what's happening out on the golf course. Certainly in that situation, there was no reason for concern at the time. Yeah, when you look back at it, it is inconclusive. It's not like -- it really is a question of -- there's not much you can do about it and call it as it is. No penalty. 

 Q. I know you're fired up about it right now, but hopefully that won't detract from the fact that you had a great golf tournament. 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah, you know it was definitely great there, for the first nine, ten holes we were chasing birdies, all the holes we were making birdies, but the problem is you're pushing, you're pushing, you're trying to make a few more, but we did stall. Even when you make a par you feel like you're going backwards. It was a pity there at the end that we couldn't have moved down another few. 

 Q. We saw the video, we saw you guys discussing it. What was talked about on the 13th tee box?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Well, obviously a spectator said that I teed up close to the marker, so we went back out and had a look at that, had a look at the TV, and eventually between all of us when we were out there, we saw nothing untoward, and when you look at it on the TV, it's inconclusive. So yeah, there is a spectator out there who believes that it was ahead of the thing, and we had one on 18 where 20 spectators told us a ball crossed the hazard a good 15 yards the wrong side of the hazard. So things happen on the course, and this one is just not conclusive. We could go and take that spectator's word or whatever, and I'm sure they believe what they saw and all that. I certainly wouldn't have an issue with that. But in our case it's just not conclusive. I could be a martyr and take the penalty, but I'm not going to.

 Q. You and your caddie Ronan, Phil and his caddie Bones, Slugger White, Jon Brendle, do you all agree?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: It's just not conclusive. In this situation, you know -- I don't know, maybe it could be 80/20. I really don't know, but it's just not conclusive in this situation, and there really isn't -- there's not much we can do about it. As I said, I could be a martyr and take the penalty, but since it's not conclusive, there's no penalty.

 Q. Are you okay with how the whole process unfolded?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I think the referees did a good job. We went out, we had a look at it, we came back in, we had a thing, and the tee markers are a little askew, but I know I lined up with the right-hand one, and actually that's the one that's more out than the left-hand one, so it actually would have given me more room than I would have thought. The caddies were very happy. Phil was happy. He's left-handed, I know. But the two caddies were very happy. And you'd know something like that. Somebody would see it, feel it, expect it, and obviously there was nothing in our minds about it. 
 But yeah, you know back out there, you look at the TV, and there's no doubt it is inconclusive. You know, I'm one to tee way back, but I was pushing it up there, was trying to get my 6-iron up there. Next time I'll make sure I give it a good yard instead of trying to -- such is life, as I said. It is inconclusive, and there's not much we can do about it. There's no penalty. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT