SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 1, 2011
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Interesting times but the final result was good.  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah. I suppose I'm happy to be only one shot off the lead. I had a putt. I had a putt to go 9-under after my tenth hole I would have hoped to push down from there. Obviously I lost my way for a few holes. It was nice to settle down a bit and make even easy coming home.  
  
  Q. Tell me about the eagle at 8.  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I hit a good solid drive down the left and hit 5-iron, really nice shot, 15 feet. Two of my better shots of the day I would say. The second shot was particularly nice to get it on the top level and give myself a genuine chance for an eagle and -- which was needed at that stage. Really, kind of batten down the hatches for the last couple of holes after that trying to not make too many mistakes after I lost my way.  
  
  Q. What a great way, you've taken advantage of 12 through 15.  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: You know, I played good golf over the two days at times and great, plenty of birdie chances. Just to trust it a little bit more. Feeling a little bit more in me if I could get it.  
  
  Q. What's with the beard growing?  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I genuinely forgot my razor. I got up Wednesday morning to shave for the Pro-Am and I realized I only brought the blades and not the razor. It was late Wednesday, late yesterday. I needed a razor. Of course now I'm doing good -- basically I -- the minute it gets itchy, I shave.  
  
  Q. I'm not going to kiss you. Ultimately a satisfying way to end the round.  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I played nicely. I was very happy. I had great chances. Hit a really careless shot in the trees on the front-9 and dropped a shot. I totally got out of my routine on my 11th hole, and then the next hole got a little unlucky. Then I hit a bad shot and I dropped three shots, missed a couple of short putts. Not feeling very good about my game at that stage. Kind of batten down the hatches for the next couple of holes, played cautiously, and I knew there was a good birdie opportunity on the second to the last hole. Turned out it was an eagle opportunity. Kind of just wanting to get home.  
  
  Q. Great dividend, isn't it, to be on the leaderboard this week?  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: It's always where you want to be. You know, I feel like I've played really comfortable to be where I am. I'm surprised 8-under was leading. I thought it might just be three, four back behind. One shot behind is fine. You're well within it there. And going into the week, the golf course is get getting a little firmer and faster, and there's a lot of hazards on each sides of the fairways. It's going to be -- it's an intimidating course when it gets fiery.  
  
  Q. What's your assessment of where you are in terms of your career at the moment, given so much European success and you're perhaps --  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: You know, European golf is very strong and delighted to see it. It's good going forward. Obviously I've got to improve on my own game and what I'm doing, and I fully believe, you know, I'm going to play the best golf of my life going forward.   
 It's interesting, does that mean it's going to be better results? Obviously I had a peak in 2007, 2008 there, and I believe that there's more good stuff to come. But those results were obviously really good, plus, you know, I definitely feel like I'm a better player now than I was in 2007, 2008. Looking forward to good things happening.  
  
  Q. Since you're bubbling a little bit, how is it?  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I've been for several weeks. I've gone through a lot of closure. I have a great understanding of where my game is at, why I hit good and bad shots, you know. So that's realistically, you know, I still hit the bad shots, but I have an understanding of what's happening, and that gives me a lot of peace, let's say. I felt that way going into Transitions and I missed the cut.   
 So, you know, I thought I played well in Transitions. It's not like it's -- it's not on a string or anything like that, it's not that dependable, but definitely I'm a lot happier where I am than I would have been at any stage over the last 20 years.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT