AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 11, 2011
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Padraig, nice 68 today; 7-under on the tournament, 4-under today. You said you had more than 15 changes in your game come into the season. Are you comfortable with where you're at?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Obviously not. Yeah, I made a number of changes during the winter. I'm sure some of them have gone back to their old habits already. Maybe some sticking in there. 
 Yeah, some are more of a priority and some have been put on the back boiler a bit. You know, obviously when you're out there on the course you're trying to forget about a lot them. Certainly at times I'm getting a bit mixed up with things.

 Q. Why are you tinkering when you had those two majors and then you tried to rebuild?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I was rebuilding before the major, during the major. Always have been in my career. I've made substantial changes at many timings in the past. I like doing it. Gets me out there, gets me working on things, gets me up in the morning, and gets me excited about it. 
 Always looking to be better. Obviously at times I have to moderate and make sure when I'm competing. And I do that in general. It's just, you know, I suppose a lots made of me changing things as if I've done something different since I've won the majors. 
 But to be honest, it's just the same me all the time. I was doing it before and enjoying it, so it's only the spotlight is a bit more on me now. 

 Q. (Indiscernible.)
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah, we were just discussing that. Obviously I played with Steve Marino and he's leading the tournament. We've really had a relaxed two days so far. We've been very comfortable playing with each other. Been very easygoing, and it's showing up in our golf. 
 Did certainly at one stage, I think Steve was maybe 10-under, I was 8, I think we were first and second, and I was just saying to my partner that it didn't seem like that. We were quite comfortable at 10- and 8-under par. 
 It was well within us, because I suppose the atmosphere was very easygoing and relaxed. It brought the best out of us. 

 Q. Looked like a very easy 68 for you this afternoon. 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Should have been a bit about a better actually. I think the two days I'm 7-under par, and I feel like I should be a few better. You know, it's been very relaxed. 
 I suppose playing with Steve, and he's obviously making plenty of birdies; he's 13-under par. And again, it's well within him. It's not like he could have -- he could holed a few more putts, made a few more birdies. 
 So it's easy to play good golf when you're playing partner is playing well and you see him making birdies. 

 Q. Talk your shot routine on the greens where you hover over the putter over the ball with three practice strokes.
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah, I look a little bit (indiscernible.) You know, I'm always looking to fine tune that routine. I line up best when I walk in from behind the ball. When I get a better feel for the putt is when I've taken practice putts not from behind the ball, which you see probably some of the guys -- probably eh best putters now, they take their practice putt maybe six feet away from the ball and just walk in and hit it.
 I struggle to get my pace when I do that so, I need to do it morale realistically around the ball. But I want to get feeling of walking in from behind, so I'm trying get the best of both worlds there.

 Q. I know this is your buildup towards the Masters, first PGA event of the year. What do you do specifically to get the rust off your game with the California swing? 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: You know, I've done some practice during the winter, so technically I'm trying to actually slow it back down and fine tune things that I've worked on and maybe prioritize certain things that are going to help me play well in the return. 
 The Masters isn't (indiscernible) in my swing, and also show it this week in my overall game and, you know, what to concentrate on.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT