WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 6, 2010
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  Third Round 70 (-6) 210Total.  
   
  Q. Tell us about the shot of the day, if you would, please.   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Well, obviously the shot of the day, I've never had an albatross before. I hit a shot down there, I had 250, into the wind and I was forced to go for it, because normally 250 into the wind over the water, you're going to hit it up the middle of the green but I had too much club and up the middle. So I had to go up the pin line and hit a nice little soft fade in there and bounced nicely and ran up and the crowd started cheering.   
 You know, I was hoping it was going to go close, but obviously when they all jumped up -- you can never quite be sure in China, but when they all jumped up, I suspected it got in the hole. It was a nice bonus.  
  
  Q. You couldn't quite see that far, but you actually saw the bounce and saw it that it was heading towards the cup?  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah, it was slightly through. There was a little bit of -- the bunker just slightly hid it a little bit. You can see it bouncing and you can imagine it running up but you couldn't quite see the hole.   
 It was a good boost at that time, and you know, I played excellent for the first 11 holes and then got a little bit scrappy and disappointed, obviously, to finish the way I did.   
 There you go. I'm destined to shoot 70.   
  
  Q. How do you see your position in the tournament?  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Too far behind now. The leaders are going to finish -- if I was 8-under par and if I finished five shots behind, you never know. The golf course is tough enough that mistakes can be made and birdies can be made, as well. But you know, a lot of shots, seven shots, and seven or eight people.   
  
  Q. Game is coming together but?  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I've been happy with where it's been going. Still making a few mistakes but I'm pretty comfortable with where those mistakes are coming from. That's always a nice sign when you have a good understanding of what you're doing.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT