ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 9, 2010
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. When you were coming off, I asked you how you were feeling, you said depressed; elaborate for me.   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: When I 3-putt last, from reasonably short range, it's never a nice way to finish.   
 You know, I hit a bad second putt, a bad first putt, too, pace-wise, and you always feel, you know, if the guy shot 70, 3-putting the last, he feels worse than the guy shooting 71 who birdies the last. It's just the nature of the game. But I'm only depressed for ten minutes. Mind you they had some jellies inside so the sugar rush is getting to me, as well.   
  
  Q. How much are these conditions and this course examining every aspect of the game today?  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: It is tough. As I said, they played all the golf courses bigger and tougher this year than they have in previous years. They have used more back tees. There is some substantial holes out there. You know, off the back tees, there's some big holes and you've got to hit driver and you've got to hit it straight. Certainly a much sterner test than in previous years.   
  
  Q. You've won a major championship; when you come back here, do the memories flood back?  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: It's funny. I lost a match in the British Amateur here in '92, and I remember that, too, as well. So I have some very good memories. I have some good memories of the Dunhill, good memories of winning The Open here. I had a similar 2-putt on -- somewhat similar 2-putt on 16 from off the left of the green that I had in the playoff and I remember that.  
 So there are some positive memories and negative memories. I never stand that easy on the tee with too much confidence.  
  
  Q. How do you feel about tomorrow? A low one out there for you at St. Andrews? Do you feel you're playing well enough?  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I played fantastic yesterday. Didn't quite have the same feel today. But certainly if I work my way around the golf course well, and shave the hole a number of times at a number of putts, that's probably -- I couldn't see myself missing on the last and I was a bit too aggressive.   
 Yeah, put the two of those together, drop a few putts, I certainly putted -- yesterday's play on St. Andrews was as good as I've played in a long, long time. So if I put the two together, it would be great, yeah.   
  
  Q. How good was 66?   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: 66 is very good. Should be the best of the day, an excellent score.   
  
  Q. Is that another lift for the Tour if he gets No. 1?  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I was actually thinking before he went out, I was wondering, was it a distraction; obviously 66, a wee wrong.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT