ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 8, 2010
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You've played an awful lot of good rounds of golf here. How good is 68 in these conditions?   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Well, it was a good score, and certainly would have taken it on the way out. Had chances to make a lot of birdies and if you didn't make them, I had on the back at that stage but at least I had something going out. But anybody who didn't make any birdies going out, I would hate to be facing the last nine holes. JP says to me on the 13th hole, he says, loaf would you take your 5-under par, total, finishing"?  
 I said I would take it and I would take his fingers with it. Actually I would have taken his arms, too. Those last five, six holes, it wasn't that it was that windy, because it really isn't that windy out there and it wasn't like it was heavy rain, but the combination of wind, rain and playing pretty much the back tees, obviously didn't do that on 17, golf courses that long are not meant to be played in this temperature. It was tough coming home.  
  
  Q. Having said that, is the relaxed nature of this event the sort of ideal move-on from The Ryder Cup's intensity?   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah, it's interesting, this is my third team event in a row. There's a lot going on when you're playing in a team event. It it's not just your own game, you have someone else to look after and watch over. I like the Dunhill, it's a nice week, you have a lot of things going on and it's an enjoyable week. It's not all about the golf at times. It obviously gets that way Sunday afternoon and other stages but it's a good week overall and an enjoyable week to play golf.  
  
  Q. Playing on your fourth Ryder Cup Team, what are the emotions watching Graeme McDowell bring it home?  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Big time. That is my fourth, but I felt myself with my own match, I was trying to squeak it out thinking it could win The Ryder Cup, and when that didn't happen, I felt like, wow, we need to get this done. It was ours to lose on Monday.   
 Without Graeme coming down the stretch, it was tough on him, but a good guy to hit the shots under pressure. So it was good for us, and worked out the right way at the end of the day. Yeah, we would have been sorry if we lost, and that made the win all the more special.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT