THE RYDER CUP
October 2, 2010
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Right up until the end I was feeling good but feeling shattered now and it's kind of all hit us. I'm sure everybody else is the same. We haven't played that many holes, but it has been a long day. It's soft underfoot, so mentally, it's tough.   
 We are going to have another tough day tomorrow. We are going to have -- finishing off that session, whichever number it is of fourballs and obviously the singles are so important we have to be up and ready for those as well.  
  
  Q. Even though the Americans have the lead currently, do you feel the drum beat is blue?   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I hope so. They are going to come out strong in the morning. Would have been better for us in a perfect world if we would have kept finishing that session so we had the momentum. We are going to have to somehow maintain that overnight. It could be good be good for us if we go out there and finish it off strong tomorrow, means it's very fresh in our minds going into the singles. But it's all to play for.   
 You know, it would be lovely if we could just say, yeah, the six blue numbers are going to convert to six wins tomorrow, but that doesn't happen in reality. We are going to have to try and work as hard and grind as hard as we can, and you know, any lead is precious going into the singles and that's what we have to look for.   
  
  Q. Given where you guys were to start that last session, really nice spot to be in.   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: We were obviously under a lot of pressure going into that session, probably didn't get much time to think about it. We had to go out there and play, so, you know, it's nice. A lot of blue numbers up there, but we understand there will be a lot of work to be done tomorrow. Some of those blue numbers are substantial, so that's a good thing. But to convert those six blues into six wins, there's a long way to go to do that.   
 I think if we could take any lead into the singles -- we are going to have to work really hard tomorrow morning.  
  
  Q. Your game is turning around.   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I think Monty made a great decision last night. He asked me to go with Ross and basically instructed me to look after Ross and take him under my wing and gave me a lot of responsibility. While it helped Ross's game, it certainly helped my own game, as well.   
  
  Q. Talk about Lee Westwood, what would you say about Lee?   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I'm sure Pete Cowen told you, so I'm sure --  
  
  Q. Let me phrase it a different way. Lee Westwood, I know you think very, very highly of him.   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: You know, in the end of the day, Lee is going to World No. 2 on Monday, and you know, in the next two or three events, you can't see him not getting to World No. 1.   
 You know, he's a fantastic player, and you know, he's a great player for us to lead out. He's proven it so far in his first three matches, and you know, yeah, he's a great partner for anybody and a great leader on the team and so far this week, our players have trusted in Lee being out in front.   
  
  Q. Great character, something very likable about the guy.   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: He's a stalwart. He's a solid guy and at the end of the day he's very dependable. He's a good guy around the team, and he's a very dependable guy; and certainly, you know, his golf, he was the best-ball striker in the world in '99, and his golf is getting back there.   
  
  Q. You saw Jeff Overton today?  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah, Jeff wears his heart on his sleeve, it was great to see -- it wasn't so great to see. I'm delighted for him and all that. He played great golf and holed the putts and it was very exciting, unbelievable for him. Pity we were on the receiving end of it, and fair play to him. It's great to see a rookie who gets on to The Ryder Cup team that he really excels it and enjoys it.   
  
  Q. What role did Colin play in turning the team around?   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: He was inspirational for me and for Ross last night and his selections were very important coming out this afternoon. Obviously there was a short bit of time, and individually he went -- I assume he went to everybody. He certainly went to myself and Ross, and you know, just was telling us how important it was, that, you know, we have to get out there and stick in there, and we needed a big session to get that 14 1/2 points.   
  
  Q. You told us earlier that maybe there's a little bit of passion lacking from the Europeans before the afternoon play, do you read anything to that, and how do you turn it around?   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I don't know if there was -- there was passion in my game, and you know, he's brought Ollie in, as well, who is probably the second-most passionate golfer who has ever played The Ryder Cup.   
 I think the team has been passionate all week, and, you know, obviously Monty's got his pairings right now coming out here to start the afternoon. We have got a lot of hard work ahead of us tomorrow afternoon.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT