THE RYDER CUP
October 2, 2010
Ross Fisher
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How does it feel to win your first Ryder Cup point like that?   
 ROSS FISHER: Feels pretty awesome. It was an absolute pleasure and honour to play with a three I'll time major champion. He took me under his wing and needed all his help on the greens and as you saw, paid off today. Delighted.   
  
  Q. How much pressure have you felt to justify that faith that Colin had in you?   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Obviously there's a lot of pressure. It was tough going in the four-balls. I just couldn't make any birdies but I think Monty made a great decision, he gave me some responsibility today and looking after Ross, feeling like I have to do a bit more, it worked well for me. Ross obviously played fantastic and I think it was a great idea by him just to make me step up a bit.  
  
  Q. Mr. Woods this morning and Mr. Mickelson this afternoon, a baptism of fire. Has this Ryder Cup exceeded your expectations?   
 ROSS FISHER: Way more. To get out with Poults and get that draw, Woods and Stricker, it was pretty intense. And you know, I felt like I let Poulter down a little bit. I just didn't hole enough putts to back him up. But I wanted to come out this afternoon and try and help this man out, because I just wanted to knock the ball on the green and leave him to it to hole those putts. To play a guy like Mickelson and DJ, it was always going to be a tough game but felt like we gelled really well together. We played solid golf, and nice to get an early victory.  
  
  Q. Your sixth consecutive Ryder Cup, compare the atmosphere for us here. What's this one like?   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: The atmosphere is electric. The supporters realise everything is tight and we do need that support. All Ryder Cups are tight but this looks particularly tight and we need that boost behind us. We do need to push on now, and the crowds are very important. They have been tremendous. Especially now that the weather is there, they are great in the bad weather as well but they have been fantastic. Every green we walked onto, they were cheering like we were holing putts and making birdies. Luckily we did make a few birdies and hole a few putts and give them something to cheer about.  
  
  Q. What does Olazábal bring?   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Well, Jose is, after Seve, probably the most emotional guy who has ever played The Ryder Cup, so it's nice to have him in there. There is plenty of passion in the team, but, you know, it's no burden to carry a bit more.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT