VIVENDI CUP 2010
September 24, 2010
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. After a good round yesterday, 68, how disappointing was that 74 today? 
 PÁDRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah, it wasn't great. I had a couple early 3-putts again. I found the greens slow today and got in-between clubs on the 12th. You can't afford that. I made two terrible errors to make a double-bogey and a triple-bogey. When scoring is good, you have to be making birdies. I made enough birdies but you have to keep those off the card. They did a lot of damage.

 Q. We have got a cut that we are looking at 2-under or maybe 3-under; with The Ryder Cup coming up next week you must be going, 'Come on, let me make it because I want to play the last 36 holes.' 
 PÁDRAIG HARRINGTON: You know, yeah. I thought birdieing three of the last six was good enough, I was sure I was going to make it in under the cut. Now that I look at it, it's very tight. Don't want it to warm up, let's say.
 But it is what it is. I've got enough out of these two days, you know, and as I said I know I need to practise my putting no matter what happens and get that solid for next week. That's really it. It would be better if I get 36 more holes to do it. 
 But if not, that's the weakest point of my game at the moment and that is where the focus will be no matter what over the weekend. And obviously we get a couple rounds next week to sharpen our focus, as well. 

 Q. You hung tough on the par 5s, let's move it along now, how hard is it you getting the pick and Casey leading in the States this week now? He won't go away, will he?
 PÁDRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah, I didn't know he was leading. There you go. 

 Q. 66 first day?
 PÁDRAIG HARRINGTON: Oh, very nice. Yeah, you know, it is what it is, though. There's not much I can do about the golf he's playing. You know, yeah, I can't do much about that. I hope he wins it. I genuinely hope he goes and wins the tournament. 
 Fair play to him. I certainly don't wish him to play bad golf. That doesn't make me any better. I have no interest in that. You can't look at it like that at the end of the day, as I said, I'm going into The Ryder Cup next week and I'm looking forward to it, and you know, that's all I can focus on. I can't focus on whether Justin Rose or Paul Casey should have got picked. That's just the way it is. 

 Q. What happened on 12?
 PÁDRAIG HARRINGTON: Obviously it's a tough hole, 12. A shower came in; I was in-between clubs. I went to try and hit an easy driver and just, you know, pulled it left. It was just one of those things. You know, it is a nasty little hole like that. You hit a nice shot, you can make three, there's always the danger there. In fairness, I'm standing on the tee trying to win the tournament. I hit a bad shot and then I'm struggling to make the cut. That's the nature of the game at times.
 Hopefully I've done enough to make the cut. It was tough out there early on, and again, throwing in five 3-putts, that's not like me. I found the greens slow today. I found them fast yesterday. So I know I need to do a little bit of tidying up in that area of the game, and hopefully I get 36 holes to do it. 

 Q. Since having dropped three on that hole, and then you pitch on the par 5, straight in the middle and on the green in two, great 3-wood?
 PÁDRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah, I birdied three of the last five holes. I didn't miss a shot -- or three of the last six holes and I didn't miss a shot over the last six holes. I hit the ball great. I have a tendency to do that when my back's to the wall. Like the worst shot I hit today was I birdied the fourth hole to get off to a nice start and 1-under after four, and cruising. 
 And on the next, I hit it in the middle of the woods -- I hit clipped the woods, I actually hit a nice shot and tried to cut the corner. I struggle more when I don't have pressure on me than when I do, let's say. The last couple of holes, there was only one way to go and that was to play them well. And thankfully, I did. 
 You know, it always gives you some confidence when you have to hit some shots and you do hit them. I just have to watch for when I don't have to hit them. It's a bit of an issue. 

 Q. Going into a big event like next week, comparing Houston the week before the Masters or a week before the U.S. Open or a WGC, are you in a different frame of mind? 
 PÁDRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah, there's no doubt you are. Your mind wanders to what you should be working on. I was out on the course thinking, okay, this is what I'm going to spend my time on this afternoon getting ready for next week. There's no doubt about your mind wanders to the next tournament. 

 Q. Are you like that in the weeks before majors? 
 PÁDRAIG HARRINGTON: It would be the same. You're always just thinking, okay, like I would see my putting is not as sharp as I would like it to be and I'm thinking, well, that needs focus for next weekend and that's what I'm going to concentrate for this afternoon. 
 You are analysing your own game when you are out there, but that's why you come to play these events. You wouldn't get that analysis if you were on the range. You'd be knocking in the 10-footers and wouldn't be thinking about it. It's only when you have that card in your hand that you have to hold them and you realise, okay, something needs to be tidied up. 

 Q. And you don't want to be sitting the weekend off thinking about it. 
 PÁDRAIG HARRINGTON: At the end of the day, if I sit the weekend off, that's fine. I've got enough out of the two days, as well, but I hope I'm not sitting the two days. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT