BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 22, 2010
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Thoughts on the day?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: It was a poor enough start and poor enough finish in terms of I didn't hole the putts. Played nice golf. Can't complain about that. Lost a tiny bit of patience early on, a little disappointed on the last three greens to not hold a couple of those putts. Would have turned it into a nice day.

 Q. The putter seems a lot colder than normal; is that fair? 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Well, you have to understand, when you create chances, they tend to be just that further away. Like the putt on the last must have been 15 feet at least. The two previous, 12 feet and six feet, 12 feet and eight feet. They are not gimmies or anything like that. 
 I hit some good putts that didn't go in, so you just have to stay patient and wait for it to happen. There's no point in -- it's just the nature of the game at times. You get on a run, you find it easy to read the greens and today was not my day.

 Q. This is the Tour's major championship; are you still fancying your chances when it comes to the back nine on Sunday here at Wentworth?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Well, it's still all to play for in the fifth position. Obviously I'm a little behind Chris, five shots there, but a lot will depend on what he does. I don't see anybody shooting 9-under par tomorrow afternoon. 
 So if somebody on 3-under, it would be a nice return to shoot 4- or 5-under par, so a lot does depend on Chris, if he goes out there and shoots, you know, 2-under, 3-under par, really, there's only one player that could probably compete with him and that would be Robert. It really is in his hands.

 Q. A quick word about Chris. Were you very impressed with him today and his composure?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah, he played very nicely. He created some nice birdies early on and got himself off to a nice run and played well after that. You know, he came back after the little mishap on 13 and 15 and then he made a nice birdie on 16 and closed out, he'll be happy with the two pars he made on the last. I think going to bed tonight he'll be very happy about his performance today and looking forward to tomorrow. 
 Unfortunately, the start I got off to, I played the first couple of holes very well, created some good chances and didn't make the birdies and felt frustrated. I really lost my patience. 
 You know, it's interesting, I probably would have been better off not playing so well at the start and maybe being happy with my pars, but I was disappointed, facing into the rest of the golf course, I let the frustration get to me a little bit.
 I settled down nicely at the end, but again, I just failed to hold the putts.

 Q. How do you fancy your chances, five shots behind the big fella?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: A lot is in his hands tomorrow. This is a tough golf course in the afternoon. I know Robert shot 62 but I don't fancy myself to shoot 62 tomorrow afternoon. You know, 4- or 5-under par is certainly realistic if you play well, but then that leaves it in the hands of Chris. If he can shoot 2- or 3-under par, really, I don't see him being beaten. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT