WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 13, 2010
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PAUL SYMES: Disappointed to bogey the last, but overall you have to be very happy with that round.
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I am happy. It is leaving a sour taste to bogey the last, but finishing 11-under, 12-under has no real effect on the outcome tomorrow, as in, I think I had a brief look there there's three of us up there, whoever plays the best golf tomorrow is going to win the tournament.
 There will be ebbs and flows and that one shot will truly be eaten up at some stage. But I'll have my opportunity, so have to go out there and play well. Like if I was sitting at 12-under, I would be feeling the same way going out tomorrow as I do on 11-under. I don't feel like I have to attack anymore and I certainly can't defend. I have to go and play golf.
 PAUL SYMES: You said yesterday you don't normally win out of the blue, but there's a first time for everything.
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah, there is a first time for everything. I've had a good attitude from, you know, I had a good attitude in my preparation at the Match Play, a good attitude last week and it's starting to bear fruits now on the golf course.
 It's nice. Obviously I'm in contention. It's nice to be in contention, and you know, that's kind of a similar feeling towards the end of last year where I was putting a lot of good scores together each week, and hopefully we'll stick with that now.
 PAUL SYMES: The last couple of days you down played your chances of winning a little bit --
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Well, I can't hide now, can I (chuckling).
 PAUL SYMES: Is that your way of managing expectations?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: No, genuine. Most people at home when I was coming away on this trip, I said, if you're looking for value third week out, I've never seen the golf course, and that was the week I was thinking I would be ready for it. But every week you tee it up, you try and do your best and give yourself your best chance of winning.
 I said this week, I've been good, I've definitely -- you know, I'm ready to go tomorrow. I've prepared to win the tournament, and I'm in position. Now I just have to put it together tomorrow.

 Q. You putted all right today?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I putted all right today. I hit a good second putt on 18 that was one of those putts, what can you do? You've got to take the line and hit it and take your chances. I might have been a bit aggressive on it, but, you know, yeah, that's not going to -- as I said, it's not going to affect the outcome tomorrow. It really isn't. So we'll get on with it and go and play tomorrow.
 Nothing I want to change from today's round of golf. I'll certainly take another 67 tomorrow.

 Q. Were you startled on the 16th green?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: No, I was standing there wanting to move and I couldn't move. I was on front of the green and looking around, going, this is not a good place to be standing. I wanted to get to the back of green but Søren was obviously standing over his 3-footer and I couldn't -- I was kind of stuck. So I was quite happy when he stood off it, meant I could get to the other side of the green and find safety. (Laughter).

 Q. You knew they were hitting, did you?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: No. But you know, we suspected, obviously. No, you can't see anything -- they put a lot of shrubbery in there. You used to be able to see the pin and see the green from that tee. They put a lot of shrubbery in that you can't see, and I couldn't see back, no. You have no idea whether the green is cleared or not.

 Q. What part of your game has fallen into place this week to now put you higher up on the leaderboard?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: A bit more of my mental game, that would be the only thing. Mental game. Nothing else really has changed.

 Q. As much as you work on the physical part of it, it's the mental part that has to --
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: You've got to work on the physical part, get that so you're comfortable with it. And then it's very much a mental game, ` and this week I was comfortable with how I was hitting the ball, and so the mental side was the focus and that's making the difference.
 PAUL SYMES: Thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT