PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 18, 2009
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I struggled all week on the greens, and I lost my confidence in reading them and hitting them. Missed a few today. So obviously couldn't afford to do that. 
 So obviously yesterday is the round I look back on, and I think in hindsight, I just got dehydrated. It would explain a lot about yesterday's round. 
 I wasn't sure whether I needed to shoot 24-under par or whether, you know, I'm 19 now; I would have taken 20 at this moment, I would have taken 21 when I was standing on the green. 

 Q. Have you had dehydration before? 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah, it's a regular enough thing. I'm usually very good. It would have been a mild case but I struggled to concentrate yesterday and definitely when I look back, it was a classic -- I felt it myself, and my trainer had been watching on TV and he thought that he felt it looked that way. 

 Q. Is it similar to Oakland Hills?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Not as bad, no. I drank a phenomenal amount, just not enough. 

 Q. You said on Friday you were struggling to read the short putts. 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I struggled with confidence. I hit some bad putts, I got distracted and I lost confidence. Again, I missed three on the back nine alone today, which, you know, it could be as simple as that, couldn't it. I hope 23-, 24-under par wins the tournament. 22 would have been a lot, but like I hit a good putt on the last, I hit a good putt on 10 and I hit a bad putt on the other one. I'm sure the other guys are holing some of the misses. 

 Q. When will you travel --
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I'm probably going to travel on the next Saturday. He's a friend, I would be very happy to see him win. I would not him to win The Race to Dubai would you tell me playing well. It's fine. If he wins, so be, it that's good enough. I just have to win the last three events. It would be a better way to do it than wishing somebody else doesn't perform. The same for Rory, I hope he plays well; I just hope I play better. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT