BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 10, 2009
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   Q . Pretty steady round for you, especially on your back nine. 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah, in terms of scoring it was steady, three birdies, no bogeys, great. But it was far from steady on the golf course. I was a little bit erratic at times out there. I struggled to focus, I suppose. So it needs to be better over the next three days. I won't get away with what I got away with today. 

 Q. Why the focus question? Maybe finishing up Monday and then having to come here?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I've been in contention for a few weeks, and I can think it was two things. Obviously I'm a little bit tired, and secondly, I think I was maybe pushing a little bit too hard, maybe trying a little bit too hard and maybe getting on my back a little bit too much. I need to relax a little bit and let it happen more. 

 Q. Considering that short turnaround and that you guys have played so much recently, if your focus was off and you still are 3-under, do you feel like maybe you survived that part of --
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: There's no doubt I got lucky today. I wouldn't want to play like that for the next three days. I'd settle for scoring like that, but I know I've got to play a little bit better over the next three days. You don't always get away with it. Today was a lot of hard work, and I got the very most out of the round, which is good. It keeps me in there, and that's very positive. But I hope I play a little bit better over the next three days, keep myself under less pressure let's say.

 Q. Good way to finish, though.
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah, birdie on the last is always nice, especially after the round I had. I made a number of good pars coming into the last, so it just seemed like a little bit of a steal to shoot 68. 

 Q. Does this give you some momentum for tomorrow?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah, possibly. Just the way I played today is not the way I want to play for the next three days. Scoring-wise, yes, I'd be happy to do that, but I've got to play a little bit better. So maybe I'm not necessarily thinking about this round as being the groundwork for the next three days.

 Q. The new course, does it play differently in competition? Does it play longer?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I had never played the course -- yeah, but we're used to that now, turn up at a golf course, have a practice day, they just seem so long. And then you play them in the tournament and you're a little bit more pumped up and the fairways are a little bit firmer. Yeah, we're well used to it. It played as expected. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT