DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 7, 2009
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Well, I suppose, as I said yesterday, there's 5 million Irish people in Ireland and 40 million in the States, and it seems like a huge amount are in Boston. The support out there was fantastic, and it did feel like I was at home. I played with a few U.S. guys the last couple of days and we were joking who was actually the home guy. It definitely felt good. It was great support when you need a boost out there, and that really helped this week.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Which one of the last four do not count as a big event? There was four events. One of them I didn't have a double bogey.   
 You know, I took double bogey on 12. It was a really good double bogey. I was very unlucky with the tee shot. I pulled it down the left. You just expected it to be in the rough and it caught the limb of a tree and it went unplayable. These things happen. You get some good breaks, you get some bad breaks. I fought hard through that spell because there was a couple of holes that -- I was a bit aggressive on 10 and there was a couple of holes after that where I didn't feel good. But I was happy I hit the shots.   
 I seem to be a little bit better when I'm chasing, and I was happy that I hit a few good shots coming down. I hit two beauties down the last to give myself a great chance of possibly a playoff.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Not much, just I thought I was going to hole it. I was trying to hit it just outside the right lip and hit it there. It went dead straight. I probably hit it -- I was trying to hit it, what, two inches right. I probably hit it four inches right, and I really thought it had a good chance at the pace it was going of getting in on that right lip, but there was just no break there. That's what happens sometimes.   
 I've holed many a good putt on the 18th green. The main thing is I have a chance, I hit a pretty decent putt. If it didn't happen today, it's going to happen another day.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I'm disappointed with today's because it was in my control. I was leading the tournament, and going into the back nine it was mine to lose, and I lost it, if 16-under par is the mark. It was tough out there, and it's always tougher on a golf course, on a firm and fast course where you get a little bit protective.   
 But I just didn't -- I'll feel this one a lot more than say some of the others because of the fact that it was mine for the winning.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT