DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 6, 2009
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How about that birdie at 18 today?  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah, you know, it's obviously a little bit awkward playing into the wind there, and I hit 3-wood off the tee, laid up a little bit. I think I should have been more aggressive because the second shot I was in between clubs. I hit quite a nice shot and ended up in a terrible spot. Hit a great chip to get it to the front fringe. I had a feeling that I was going to hole it, and I'm glad it hit the back of the hole because it was a little bit aggressive. But I had a feeling I was going to hole it to have the third 67 in a row.  
  
  Q. As you look back now, you've really started to play well. What has turned around for you?  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: In the last number of weeks, you know, I've been trying to find something out in my swing for the first eight months. I've actually been trying to find it out for a few years now but wholeheartedly for the first eight months of the season, or seven months of it. Eventually I found out what it is. I haven't quite worked it into my game, but it's given me peace of mind, clarity in my own head, and when you have clarity you can go out there and play golf.  
  
  Q. As you head into the final round, any thoughts?  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: No, it's too early yet. I don't know. I'll have to wait and think about it.   
  
  Q. People in the Boston area, what would it mean to you to win?  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah, there's a saying, there's 5 million people in Ireland and 40 million people in the States, and I think those 40 million people live in Boston. There's great support here. I'm getting great encouragement, and it's very positive. When you get people supporting you, you do feed off it and try to go with it, and it's certainly helped me over the last three days.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about your round a little bit?  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Well, obviously conditions were a lot tougher today. The greens have dried out. The greens were fast. I struggled a little bit with trusting the wind today. I hit a few poor shots and a few average shots at times because it was never safe. I was never comfortable with where the wind was coming out of. I did well to make a few saves in the middle of the round because of that and kept my round going, and after getting that great start with a couple of birdies it was nice to finish with a couple of birdies, and I felt like I did a good job today.  
  
  Q. You've been knocking on the door now for a couple of weeks. Is this going to be it? Is this your win?   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Well, there's going to be a lot of expectations. It's going to put a lot of pressure on me tomorrow. I know if I keep giving myself chances -- the key in this FedExCup is you've got to win one of the first three at least and then that puts you in position that if you win the last one you're going to be the big-time winner.   
 I'm a little bit -- I suppose I'm pushing hard. I won't say I'm desperate, but I'm certainly pushing hard to get that win.  
  
  Q. What was it like out on the course? These fans are going crazy for you here.   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Everywhere I walk and onto every green, onto the tees, between greens and tees, great support. As I said, it does give you a buzz. There's no doubt that when it all gets behind you, it's very positive. If they weren't behind you, you'd have to knock it down the pole because it's a different kind of focus, but when you're getting that kind of positive support, you've got to run with it.  
  
  Q. The birdie putt, did you think it was in there?   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah, it was in from three or four feet out. I'm glad it hit the back of the hole because it was probably a little bit aggressive. I just felt like I was going to hole it. I hit a good tee shot, good second shot and a good third shot, so I kind of felt like after shooting 67 the first two days, it was going to happen again today. It doesn't always work like that, but for whatever reason, I felt good about that.   
  
  Q. There are a lot of people in contention right now heading into tomorrow.   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah, there are a lot of people in contention, and that is going to be an issue. You're going to question whether somebody is not going to need to shoot a low one from where they are. You could see somebody shooting 64 tomorrow. I don't know what the conditions are going to be like, obviously, but with seven or eight guys with a chance or maybe more of winning, you've got to expect somebody is going to play well and shoot the number. It's going to be a day tomorrow for being aggressive.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT