THE BARCLAYS
August 28, 2009
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah, I worked hard for it. I didn't play very well. It was difficult conditions, it was hard to trust it out there. You know, we are all using, certainly I am, low, spinning drivers. So when the water gets between the face and the golf ball, it can go anywhere; so it's very intimidating out there. It was just a tough day. It was a day to get the most out of it. There wasn't too many birdie chances out there and it was about salvaging as many pars as possible. 
 The course was super and held up very well. That was very heavy rain. We were hoping it would flood early on but it didn't. (Chuckling.)
There was a couple of times into the wind it was very heavy and just an inkling of a puddle starting to come and we were hopeful, but then it eased up a little bit and unfortunately it did ease up a little bit. The course drains very well. It's done a great job, I've got to say. It's really held up superbly. 

 Q. Sergio said it played super long on some of the par 4s. 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I have no idea what everybody else experienced, but obviously I was in the next group after Sergio. And yeah, we definitely got a few of the par 4s, a few holes into heavy rain that seemed to be the wrong holes to be on but then probably every hole was the wrong hole to be on in the heavy rain. 
 Yeah, I got through, I doubled 8 and then I'm going into 9, 10, 11 and that was a horrible stretch. I made three pars. That was the mainstay of my round, those three pars. It was a day, any hole around the golf course, if you didn't hit a good shot, you were going to struggle, even hitting good shots you were going to struggle at times. It was a tough day. 

 Q. What did you hit into 10?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I hit sand wedge for the second shot.

 Q. You must be used to this?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: That's what I chipped out of the rough.
 Then I hit 6-iron to 12 feet and holed it. 

 Q. How tough is it to play a respectable round in weather like this?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Yes, I am used to it, but it doesn't mean I like it. You know, when it rains like this at home, you stay indoors. We go to the pub or something, sit by a fire. 
 That is tough conditions, I've got to say. You have to remember we are playing a championship golf course in tough conditions. So ultimately that's what makes it so difficult. If it was a wet day at home, I could play off the front tees or something, but that's a big golf course set up tough. Difficult conditions for a difficult course. 
 I like that once a week. I'm quite happy. It would be tough now to do this four days in a row, you would feel like you played 36 holes a day, not 18. It's been a long grind. But it's good to throw in one day a week like that. It's a pity, I could have done a few shots better myself and I would be smiling all afternoon rather than kind of hoping. 

 Q. Will other players have a harder time in the afternoon?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: The one thing when you're out early and the weather is poor, it's easy to start thinking, you know, maybe the guys in the afternoon are going to get it nice and bemoan your luck, and hopefully they are not. 

 Q. The water getting between the clubface and the ball, did any come off squirrely today?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I had plenty. It's a bit intimidating. As I said I don't know if they were bad swings or bad shots but I wasn't hitting too many fairways out there and it's tough in those conditions, trying to keep everything dry and trying to keep the golf ball and the clubface dry. It puts a lot of doubt in your mind. 

 Q. You mentioned one day; you might get two days. 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I have no idea what the forecast is. So as I said -- if I'm behind, I would obviously like it difficult. If you're chasing, that's obviously going to be the case. At the start of the week, one difficult day, but now that I know I need to make up some shots, two difficult days won't do me any harm. 

 Q. A monkey wrench to pick a golf course because it looks good on the blimp and they can't use the blimp? 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: This is a phenomenal golf course. I think this is good enough for a major. This is a major golf course we are playing here. This is a superb test, really putts us right on the limit. This is exactly what we should be playing. This is an excellent golf course. There's nothing -- it may look good, but the actual layout of the golf course, it's a real test out there, and you know, at all stages, you've got to pay attention. Absolutely. 
 You know, if you want us to play good golf, if you want to shoot 20-under, yeah, there's other golf courses, but it's like playing a major out there. You've got to pay attention all the time to every shot. 
 You know, I would go the other side of that and say, you know, I'd love to see a major here in time. 








END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT