PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2009
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Obviously it was disappointing for me. I still made the shots out there. I only got out of position one hole. And every day, the few putts I dropped, it could have been a nice number. I think it's easy to see that 7- or 8-under won, that was my mind-set going out there. But I could feel like it could have been five or six shots better, but I think Y.E. Yang is a good winner, it looks like. 

 Q. The shot at 8? 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I was just trying to make sure to get up with it. You know, the greens -- really probably didn't settle in enough, but in my mind probably was, and I did the classic amateur thing. 
 It just didn't carry up. To be honest I needed to get up to the middle of the green ask that's what I was think to go hit it straight down the pin and I thought I had room on the right-hand side and it was probably two or three yards short from being safe. 
 It wasn't anybody else. It's all me. But as I said, I was comfortable that I hit all my shots all day and nothing wrong with what I did today. 

 Q. It was a case of making putts over the first few holes that just edged the hole, came up slightly short online, there was frustration in general but what's your first reaction to walking off the course after the chance you had? 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: It was unusual, I wasn't out of position hardly at all today bar that one hole, I only made two bogeys, one was a 3-putt and the other was from the fringe. To be honest another day that would have been a good score. That's the main thing. I hit all the shots out there. I played well. I couldn't have asked for anymore except for a few putts dropping, and as I know, they drop for me sometimes. They did last year and I'll just have to wait tore it to happen again.

 Q. The tee shot that went into the water, what happened after the tee shot went into the water, because it was a difficult tee shot?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: It was a difficult tee shot and it was obviously a difficult second shot after you hit it in the water and pulled it left. I had been changing my chipping action a little, and I probably was more into what I was doing rather than trying to get the ball up-and-down, and you know, I hit a bad shot. So these things happen. 

 Q. When you walked off the green, and clearly five shots dropped in one hole, pretty much the end of things, what were you feeling like? 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Well, as it turned out, it wasn't. The putts dropped from then on in. I had chances all the way through the back nine and I definitely could have got it back to 6-under par, obviously it's not going to be good enough now and I'm very happy that seven or eight is going to win. That cheers me up. 
 In fairness, when I was on 8, I didn't feel like I could afford to make bogey by hitting left like most people. I decided I've got to hit the shot, it didn't come off there and I think I've been proved right. It wasn't a day that I could give up a shot by hitting in the left-hand traps, and such is life. Some days they don't come off, some days they do. 

 Q. Did you concentrate when things were going wrong on the 8th? 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I think I did. It's hard when you are messing up like that. I holed a lovely 5-footer down the hill there and made a great up-and-down from a bad lie. I finished the hole off strong and can't ask for anymore than that. 

 Q. The last two weeks, you come out of a period of poor scoring form and you challenge in two tournaments, Top-10 in the other, is that the positive that you take from this?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: The positive is I was very comfortable out there and I know that my game is going to get better. 

 Q. Just reflect on today for us. 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Obviously it was a disappointment for me. I felt I hit the shots all day. I hardly got out of position at all bar the one hole. Another day, if a few putts had dropped, that would have been a nice number. I think I'm happy to see that 7- or 8-under has won, because you know, that was my mind-set going out there, and yeah, I could feel like I could have been five, six shots better; fine. But I think Y.E. Yang is a good winner, it looks like it. 

 Q. That pitch shot at 8, can you run us through that? 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I was just trying to make sure to get up with it. You know, the greens had got soft so I was trying to encourage myself to give it a bit more of a hit. Really probably didn't settle on it enough that my mind probably wasn't clear and I did the classic amateur thing and lifted my head. 
 The lie was fine, no issues there. It was all -- it wasn't a straightforward up-and-down. It wasn't the easiest up-and-down in the world. You know, these things happen at times. 
 I was hitting a little three quarter 6-iron, a little knock-down shot and just as I was about to pull the trigger, the wind died down and I hit it a little easy and it just didn't carry up. To be honest I didn't play enough club to get to the middle of the green and that's kind of what I was thinking to hit it straight down the pin and I thought I had room on the right-hand side and it was probably two or three yards short from being safe.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT