SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 4, 2009
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Padraig, well played. One little hiccup at the 11th. You positioned yourself well for the final two rounds.
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah, not too bad. Yeah. It's not too bad. What is leading, I'm not sure?

 Q. Eight right now.
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Be three off the lead is okay, and with 36 holes to go, I think a lot of people will have a chance to win.

 Q. You talked earlier in the week about confidence and trusting yourself and your swing, trusting your yardage. Did you find that out there today?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Fortunately yesterday I was good but still hit a few wayward tee shots. Yeah. It's improving. Few mistakes here and there, but a lot of good signs.

 Q. Do you mind the wind, because it looks like we're going to get more this afternoon?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I don't mind the wind as long as everybody gets it. By the end of the tournament, it will be okay.

 Q. How much of an adjustment is it to the greens, they were so fast and we got rain?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah, certainly the first five, six holes was easy with no wind. It was nice. The wind got up then, and again you have to make adjustments for the wind and your putts. That's difficult. The greens are at a pace you got crosswind, it's really taking the break off. The winds having more effect in the break.

 Q. What about your preparation for the weather and everything?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I'd like to say four easy rounds and that's it. I don't think -- we're off good enough to manage to play 72 holes, whatever they throw it at us. They're going to -- it may mean being a little bit mindful in the next couple of days, but I don't think it really has too much of an effect. Certainly won't have an effect if you go on and play well in the tournament.

 Q. Are you beginning to trust your swing a bit now?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I'm trying. It's certainly -- you know, I -- I hit a lot of good approach shots, good iron shots in there. I am definitely getting better about it, yeah.

 Q. Have you found a driver yet that's functional?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Today, yeah.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT