ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 27, 2009
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You were 2-under par today. Tell us about your round of golf.   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah, it's always good to shoot 2-under par around here, but I am disappointed there, three-putting the last and missing three short birdie putts in the last six holes. Things like that happen at times, but still happy with the score.  
  
  Q. Tell us about the state of your game overall.   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: It could be better, a work in progress. But I'm kind of happy enough with what I'm working on and where I'm going sort of thing. As I say, on the golf course, if I need a little brushing up, I can do that over the next couple days.  
  
  Q. What are those areas that you're trying to brush up on?   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Every area, to be honest. I haven't putted very well for the two days, so that needs to be a bit better. I just need to be a bit more trusting actually, all the way through my game.   
  
  Q. The conditions were very tough. Why were you guys able to play so well?  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I thought it played better than yesterday. Certainly that's the way I felt. I obviously gave away a three-putt at the last and a few short birdie putts coming in.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Obviously there was a certain amount of wind, but the greens being a bit softer in the morning, I thought that the golf course -- it certainly played for me like -- I worked hard to shoot 70 yesterday and I shot 68 today and it felt like it should have been a few more. I certainly felt I could have made a few more birdies coming home. I definitely felt conditions were a little easier today.   
 But obviously when you score a little better you do anyway.   
  
  Q. How do you feel you played tee to green?   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I don't know, I certainly didn't have myself in trouble. The longest par putt I had today was on the last green, and I missed a number of birdie putts coming home there. Yeah, it probably was. I didn't put myself under much trouble all day. I missed the odd green but generally had an easy chip and putt and chipped it close. Yeah, I didn't have myself struggling at all. It would be nice to play golf like that every day.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: More read than anything else. I hit a couple of them good. I hit two of them good that missed and two of them I missed, like the one on 8 and the last and the other one, I was standing over it not confident at the line and didn't hit a good putt.   
 I think for me I need to trust a bit more. I need to trust that the read is good and just hit it on the line I pick. And if I do that, I'll have a better result overall. I just was a little bit tentative on my putting.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I think all the way through my game it was a good situation for me the last two days, having a bit more hype about and a bit more going on. We're somewhat in the tournament, as well, and I think that's the sort of position -- no doubt for me anyway, I don't win tournaments out of the blue. I need to be in that position and feeling that sort of tension for me to go and win the next time. I do need to be getting that feeling if I want to to be there at the Masters, that's for sure.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Actually, no, it probably would have been easier, as I said, especially early on today there wasn't as many people, so that was probably tough in terms of distraction.   
 At the end when the crowd swells it's crazy. I think it's nice to have a little bit of adrenaline and to be feeling it when you're out there, but no, I don't think it's made me play any better, that's for sure.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT