VOLVO MASTERS
November 2, 2008
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PADRAIG HARRINGTON: When it's outside your control, it's very hard. I think he's okay now. In fairness, Robert has played very well and consistent all year and really deserves to win.  
  
  Q. What would be your one specific memory of this year?  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I can't break it down to one memory; the satisfaction of the Open with the excitement of the PGA.   
  
  Q. Hard to score?  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: It is indeed. I left myself with all of the shots out there, all the way through today, especially last three rounds I would have said, and even in the first round. But you know, a lot of shots out there, maybe not that many to get to 10-under par, so it's a fine score, and you know, if he hangs on to it, he will really does deserve to be the winner here. It is good play.  
  
  Q. The day, the way it went, the double bogey this morning, was that when you realised it was out of range?  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I was pushing to make birdies and taking the double bogey knocked the stuffing out of me. At that stage, I'm thinking that, you know, if I could get it to 4- or 5-under, I think 10-under -- I didn't know it was 10-under at that stage but it was certainly a little bit too far.  
  
  Q. Was it just a 76 on the first day, nearly double-figures off the lead after day one, just so far to climb?  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: The whole week, more or less, I would look back at that as I probably wasn't quite prepared coming into it, and that's it. I certainly can see that in myself. You know, I would have obviously liked to have done better the first day or any day, but the game was not quite there this week.  
  
  Q. In the context of the season you've had, it's not that disappointing, is it?   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: No. (Laughs) It's easy to -- I know what this season for me is going to be remembered for, and at the moment, or in a week's time or a month's time or in a year's time, it's the two majors I won during it the summer.   
 No, I'm not too worried about -- you know, I know exactly how these things work, so I'm comfortable with it. I'd be out there trying as hard as I can, but you've got to understand how it all works, certainly for me. You know, I need to be prepared properly every week in order to perform at my very best.   
 When you have such a high in the summer, it's hard to keep going after that.   
  
  Q. The 2009 season starts next week in China, HSBC, and three events to go in a row, and that's normally the way you like to play golf; so you must be in good form and you've played well here over the last two days.   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I'm keen to go play. I'm looking forward to playing. Yeah, I feel happy about -- I'm trying not to get into, you know, my winter mode of changing things and practicing. I have two more weeks to go so just try and stick with it for two more weeks and then we can do what we like.  
  
  Q. One more victory would seal the year, wouldn't it?   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Certainly I would like to go out there and win, one of the next two weeks would be very nice. It would give a good boost to my World Rankings, and that really is the focus or the goal at the moment.   
  
  Q. You said all week that you're happy with the way that you're playing and the scores this afternoon would indicate that's sound judgment.   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah, I certainly struggled in round two really badly. But the rest of it, I actually played quite well all week, except for driving. I didn't drive it great. I actually played the dinky holes very nicely and just didn't drive it well.   
 You know, if anything, that might have hurt me a bit overall for the week. It was one of those weeks, you know, there's a fine line between having a good week and not.   
 As I said, I wasn't 100 per cent prepared, but I should hopefully be better the next couple of weeks.   
  
  Q. What's the thinking behind the players' Player of the Year award?  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Well, I've been saying for a number of years that, you know, it's crazy, I'm sorry to say, that you guys vote on who is the Player of the Year. Of course there should be a press Player of the Year but there should also be a players' Player of the Year. There's nothing like being voted by your peers into something.   
 I think that would seem to make sense. Certainly I've been in and around it the last couple of years, and I can't understand why we don't have it. It only came to my attention once I got into that position to maybe to be winning it, and obviously it's not the players that award it. Not to have in Europe, I think there should be an addition of it. I don't think we should get rid of the current one that's there, but there should be -- like Paul McGinley not winning the shot of the year in 2002, that was ridiculous.  
 Since then, I've been saying the players should at least be picking these things. Any of the Europeans having very little representation would have a tough time being voted Player of the Year at the moment. Well, if it's players, then you'd have a fair run.  
  
  Q. Who is your Player of the Year?  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Well, I already picked The European Tour Order of Merit winner as Robert Karlsson. (Laughter) European Tour Weekly, that's it.   
  
  Q. How would you view the immediate future in tournament golf?   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: This is very deep, isn't it.   
  
  Q. Wondering what your view might be.   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: From a leading player's point of view, there's a number of tournaments that are committed and it would look reasonably good from the top end.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT