THE RYDER CUP
September 19, 2008
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Hard going on the 18th green this morning and this afternoon; I suppose you gave it all you could. 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Yes, it's been a lot of work for half a point today. We really did stick in there. We played the golf course, just came down to that last hole.

 Q. No consolation, but classic four-ball, you knew it was going to be good scoring and it was nine birdies against eight. 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I have no idea. I was just playing one shot at a time, and yeah, you know, it was always going to be tight. It was a pity there at the end that we didn't squeeze half a point out of it. But such is life. A lot of work for that. 

 Q. And as a very quick turnaround, you're spent at the end. 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Oh, yeah, I'm tired. I'm real tired. Put a lot of energy into getting a half a point today which is a lot of work. 
 We stuck in there and we hit the shots. You know, I can't say that at any time me or my partners backed off anything. We really did play the golf, you know, which was obviously going to be tough and we just came up that little bit shy in the end. 

 Q. Anthony Kim, a very animated player out there, and so Boo Weekley has been, as well, to the point where you could see that Lee Westwood was visibly frustrated. They were pointing it out on national television. Your thoughts on the American players and the boundaries that they need to watch out for. 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I thought it was nice, Anthony, young fellow like that, he was enjoying it and it was good to see. You get older, you don't quite get into that, but it was good to see the excitement in him.

 Q. Is there a level where it just becomes too much in your opinion? 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I didn't see it, not in our match, anyway. We had a very good match, very sporting match, but tough match as I said. We didn't give anything out there and we just played the game and it was an exciting game it of golf. 
 As I said, it would have been nice to maybe squeeze a little bit more out of it. It is a little bit disappointing but you know, it was a good, tough match and we knew it was going to be and that's what it was.

 Q. As a team leader, one of them, what will you say to the guys to rally them for tomorrow?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah, we just have to stick in there and wait our turn and hope things turn around. 

 Q. The British TV commentators commented several times that Kim rejuvenated Mickelson and his animation. 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: He looked pretty good to me out there all day. (Laughter).
 No, you know, I didn't -- besides him enjoying himself, I didn't think it had -- maybe it helped his partner. He did enjoy himself, and that was good to see. You know, as I said, it's not often we get a chance to get excited on the golf course, not often we feel the sort of tension and it's not often we have this sort of -- the atmosphere that's around. 
 So, it was good to see all day. As I said, you know, we knew it was going to be tough and that's what it was, and you know, I'm sure they are going to go home happy with their point and a half, and we're a little bit disappointed with just half a point.

 Q. What about your own rookie partner today?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: He played great. I was really impressed. He played super golf all day. Hardly missed a golf shot. 
 You know, I've been around and I know what it's like and he's going to feel it a bit tonight, because he really did, he hit all the shots today.

 Q. You've always had Sergio García as the guy that got under America's skin. Do you think it's only fair that America comes up with a guy who may play that role for them? 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: And who would that be? 

 Q. Anybody that wants to step up for it. Just to have anybody on their side that gets so excited about this competition; new and different to the American Team, it seems. 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Well, as I said, I only got to see Anthony and Phil today, and probably get to see some of them tomorrow. 
 You know, it's good to see. Good to see. As I said, that's what you have, youthful exuberance. You're going to enjoy it. Anthony, it's his first Ryder Cup and he was excited out there and he hit some great shots at times and he had a right to be excited. 

 Q. You'll stick to peacefulness. 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I'm old in the tooth now. I just play a different game. I obviously just do my own thing all day and I try not to get high and low. I try and keep it very even tempo all day, and that's just the way I go about it. 
 But you know, I don't think Anthony is that type of guy. You know, he wears his heart on his sleeve and he showed it today, and it was nice, as I said, you could only admire the fact that he was wanting to play The Ryder Cup, and, you know, Europe has to take great credit for that. We've pushed the U.S. guys into wanting this very badly, and they have been criticized in the past but I don't think anybody would be criticizing him so far today. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT