PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 7, 2008
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Talk about your round today. 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Felt like I played a lot better than 71. Really struggled on the greens. I had a number of putts that the hole lipped-out on, so made me feel like I was putting a lot worse than I was maybe. And then it even got a little bit into my longer game towards the end of the round as I was getting a bit more frustrated. 
 71 is a reasonable start in terms of the tournament. Certainly keeps you well in there, even though I do feel a little frustrated that I left a few shots out there. 

 Q. Are you working on something particular on the putting green?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I was trying to calm down. (Laughter).

 Q. How different were the conditions out there compared to the practice round?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: The conditions were the exact same as I played yesterday. You know, I probably felt comfortable starting off. I made the right club selections a lot of times off the tee. You know, I got rewarded for that early on and I was very comfortable in those conditions. 
 But as the round went on, I got a couple of -- just got a little down on myself at times, putts weren't dropping and I hit a really good putt on 7 and 9 and both of them looked like they were going in and they missed. Maybe just got a little bit frustrated that I couldn't seem to drop anything, any 15-footers or whatever. 

 Q. Did you have a target score?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: No, no target score. I probably would have taken 71 going out. I just would have rather taken 71 and not feel as frustrated in terms of my game and maybe letting my game go a little bit towards the end. 
 You know, I need to manage that before I go out and play tomorrow. 71 is still a good score and keeps you in there. I just need to see it for what it is rather than feeling a little bit frustrated. 

 Q. You don't usually get frustrated; was fatigue a factor?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: No, it wasn't really. It was just a lot of putts. I just couldn't see myself getting the ball in the hole.
 I came back out of a 9-footer on the 15th hole when it came back out, it was going in the left half of the hole, and it lipped out again. I really couldn't wait to get finished after that, and it showed in my golf. I was anxious to get into the clubhouse at that stage because I just, you know, nothing was really -- I couldn't see anything really happening for me. 

 Q. Does it help at all that you're only three shots back?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: No, the score is good. And I have to sit down and get that into my head tonight and look that it's only the first round. This is all you want in the first round; you want to keep yourself in there. It's all about staying patient for the first three days and I need to get my head around that. As I said, I just need to get a bit more confidence back in my putting and that sort of gets into your game, as well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT