WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 1, 2008
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PADRAIG HARRINGTON: It's hard so say I'm frustrated. I just won the Open last week, so I wasn't frustrated. I did struggle a little bit with my focus and I struggled with my short game particularly. It started off and looked like it was going to be a good day and I missed a couple of putts early on, and everything seemed to drift away after that.   
 But I didn't get frustrated, I kept trying. I know I have another 36 holes to improve on where I am at, and I'm still looking forward to getting out there and playing.  
  
  Q. There's a lot of swings a round on this golf course.   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah, it's always been that way at this golf course. You know, if you get on a run where you're hitting the fairways, the pins are quite accessible from the fairways, and if you start missing the fairways and start chipping out, you do find that there's a lot of struggle to be had trying to get it up and down. The pins, it's nearly easier to hit long shots into them than short shots. They're in little hollows and things like that. Certainly I missed 10 and 11, and they were very easy birdie chances, and I struggled to make par and nearly made bogeys. They were good examples. You've got to hit it straight out there.   
 It's a golf course, for me anyway, I've always struggled, funny alignment off the tees. But you do want to hit a lot of fairways out there.   
  
  Q. Mindset for the weekend?   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I could be chipping a little bit better out of the rough. That's got to be the focus. It's all about next week now. It's all about getting my chipping right out of the rough, going to do a bit of practice on that, and just getting myself into -- I suppose, the focus of getting the mindset for next week.  
 So I'm happy about having another two rounds, opportunities for that, but as far as that I'm not going to overdo things. There's no question I'm suffering a bit with fatigue.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT