THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2008
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Well done today, what a great finish, 4-under for the last four holes. That's something to make you enjoy your dinner?  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah, after yesterday having done all the hard work the first 16 holes and finishing bogey, bogey, 6, 5, to come back today and finish 3, 3, I suppose it evens it up, even though there was a big low yesterday and a big high today.  
  
  Q. You must be quite proud of how you've performed so far this week, given everything that you had to go through and the wrist and everything else?  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah, I had to work hard yesterday in obviously the very difficult conditions, and then today's conditions were a lot easier, but hopefully things are going against -- I hit a few stray shots at 10 and 11. I started to leak a few shots and I was getting worried about making the cut and things like that, so the 4-under for the last four holes were really enjoyable. It meant I could come down 18 and enjoy the crowd and relax, and I suppose that's what the defending is meant to do, enjoy it.  
  
  Q. Bearing in mind the interrupted preparation, is there something inside you which is almost surprised by how well you've played over two days?  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Actually I managed to play nine holes on Tuesday and I played really nicely, so I wasn't -- as long as I could play, I was happy. The wrist injury distracted a little bit and took some of the pressure off me, but it definitely was a nice distraction to have, assuming that I was going to go and play. I was looking forward to getting out there and playing.  
 I played links golf last week, so it wasn't like I needed to get out there and see how to hit the ball in the wind. There was one or two shots, certainly my tee shot at 17 yesterday, because I hadn't played the hole before, I got caught out. And again on 18 yesterday.  
 So I did a lot better job with the tee shot on 17 today having had a go at it yesterday.  
  
  Q. Bearing in mind you talked before the championship began about the demands of the year you've just been through as Open Champion. Is it nice now that you've done the first part of your task to be in contention with the weekend to come and you can now really roll up your sleeves and concentrate on your goal?  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah. You know, I hope I'll have the task or the burden or whatever way you'd like to put it -- it's not really a burden -- to manage being Open Champion for another year. I've got myself in position for that, two shots behind, and that's exactly where you want to be going into the weekend.   
 This whole tournament is likely to be sorted out in the last nine holes, and you just want to be in that hunt, you want to be in the mix and do a few good things with nine holes to go, and you'll be the winner.  
  
  Q. You probably glanced at the top of the leaderboard. A very familiar name up there, but it's quite an achievement for a 53-year-old to be leading the Open at halfway?  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah, but Greg is obviously as physically fit a 53-year-old as there probably is. I certainly played a little bit of golf the last couple years with Greg, and if he's motivated he can certainly play. I think a lot of times when he goes out and plays he's distracted by course design and certain things. But when he's interested, he can hit the shots, that's for sure.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT