THE EUROPEAN OPEN
July 5, 2008
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Looks like the game is getting better every day?  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Scoring is. Game is probably the same every day. I have played very well all three days. I had a lot of opportunities all week and today I took some of them and missed some as well. I suppose it could be getting better mentally.  
  
  Q. How were the conditions?  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Pretty windy. I had pitching wedge into the 15th and had to aim 50 yards off the green so it is blowing. The course is set up nicely and the pins positions are reasonable and there are plenty of opportunities. While it is tough out there, there are opportunities and a couple under is a reasonable round. Someone could still shoot five under out there.  
  
  Q. What is the toughest aspect?  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Putting. I had a lot of cross wind putts out there and you have to go with the wind rather than the line and hope you don't catch a gust. I really is strong out there. But it is warm enough that the ball is still going through so it is not that long.  
  
  Q. How important was it for you to play all four rounds?  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: It is always important to play all four rounds. Yesterday I had a good finish to make the cut after a frustrating first 14 holes where I was level par. Then hit it to three feet on the 15th to make eagle which was quite a relief. The last few holes there is nothing easy about them and the 18th, if you have to make par is very difficult. Yesterday I was able to hit it down the right to avoid the water which made it easier. I wish I had done that today as I tried to carry the water today and got a bit aggressive. It is a good finish and I am happy to be here for another two days. My game is getting better all the time but I need to be out there on the golf course, scoring, get up and down and that is what I hope to do this week, four rounds next week and then The Open.  
  
  Q. Two eagles?  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: 5th I hit a drive and six iron to 25 foot and holed the putt. 15th I hit driver, wedge to 15 ft and holed the putt.  
  
  Q. What was the wedge at 15?  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: 152 yards.  
  
  Q. Is that solely wind and the course?  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: It is downhill, downwind and they are putting some water on the fairways but the fairways are firm and these fairways have the potential to be really hard. The ball is running. It is not us, it's the wind and the ball is running 50, 60 ayrds on those holes.  
  
  Q. When the wind gets up do you think, great, with The Open round the corner as this is what it could be like?  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: This is a good forerunner for the Open. Ideally you would go this week and then maybe the French Open which is very linksy and then The Open. That would be the best run in we could get. But this two weeks before is ideal as the ball really does bounce, it is firm around the greens and this is pretty decent preparation. This is as close as a parkland course will get to it......unless it is the French Open which is closer (laughs).  
  
  Q. Bogeys?  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: The wind was up. I hit nine iron into eight so it was up all day after the shower. 10 I played okay, half decent bunker shot but not a good putt. 11 I missed from 6 feet for birdie. 12th I spun my drive and it took off in the wind. I hung it up too long and it drifted 30 yards left and three putted. 14 I didn't commit to my second after a great tee shot and hit it in the three foot high rough. I ended up chipping and putting holing a good putt for bogey.  
  
  Q. Do you think of where you came was this time last year and think this is okay?  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: The game is far better than at any stage last year. I rate my game on how I play tee to green and it is far better. I always struggle in May and June and last year I won the Irish Open and thought wow, I am going to kick on from here and then had an awful six weeks into the Open. I really was out of form going into it. This time, even though I played quite well at the TPC I had a missed cut there and could do nothing at the Wales Open. I had a reasonable chance in Memphis. It is a period I have to work very hard at and rounds likes today I ideal, where there is nothing to lose. That is the attitude I need for my four days. Just try and stop beating myself up.  
  
  Q. Is the neck fine?  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: It takes five days of treatment and it happened on Tuesday so is fine now. Still have treatment but it is fine.  
  
  Q. What causes it?  
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I have a disc bulge in C5 so do a lot of work to protect it. A few years ago I would have problems nearly every week and now it is one every eight weeks. It is something that requires constant attention.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT