ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
March 30, 2008
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Padraig, 69 for 10-under. As we got deeper into the week, your game really started to pick up. 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah, kind of played as expected this week, and probably got what I deserved. I was quite happy that I seemed to get into the zone there at the last nine holes today, but certainly started off the week -- 3-over par after three holes, it's no wonder why I didn't win this tournament. I have to go back to that. I think I had three 6s the first round. There was a lot of errors early on in the tournament. 
 It did get better. A little bit of luck at 18. I hit a great drive, just right-to-left wind, it moved into the wind, which it looked like I hit it perfectly, and I had to make eagle, so it was -- unfortunately hung it out short a little bit.

 Q. So it was all duck or no dinner with the second shot. Did you play 5-wood for your second?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah, 5-wood for my second shot. I had 232, so I probably had the right club, a little bit of left to right wind, just got a little bit distracted during my routine and I should have stood off it, but these are the things you fail to do when you're not quite sharp. I didn't hit a good shot.

 Q. Well, if you think back to that start and then you came down the stretch there having a chance at the title, so that must bode well for the next couple of weeks?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah, I was happy. As I said, I made a lot of errors early on in the week and I was getting them back from that, but certainly I was pleased -- as I got more into contention my focus got sharper, and that's pleasing. Only another four rounds of golf to make sure it's sharp the first day in Augusta.

 Q. Well, I didn't see you on Thursday, but rumor had it that you were in the LSU colors. Now, was that by accident or design? Do you even know what the LSU colors are?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I do know what the LSU colors are. I'm just thinking -- I'm trying to figure out what I wore. It's purple anyway, for LSU, but I don't think I wore purple on Thursday. I don't think I have purple in my wardrobe.

 Q. Well, I heard them talking about it, and I said it was definitely by design because you would be clued up on that kind of thing. 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Of course I was sporting the local colors. I must be colorblind. I'll have to look into my suitcase and see what I wore. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah, I hit two great drives on two of the par-5s today, 7 and 18, both of them in a right-to-left wind. I hit them holding them up down the right side, and both of them the wind died down and the ball moved into the wind. So a little bit disappointing that, but you've got to take it on. You've got to take your chances. No point in hitting it in the left rough up 18. You've got to hit the shot down the right side, get the shortest club on it and take your chances. It is disappointing, as I said, when you strike it well and you look up and you think, oh, that's good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT