HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 9, 2007
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Very steady round for you today.  What are your thoughts on today's round? 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  It was obviously tougher conditions.  I would have liked to have shot a few better.  A few putts got away.  A few missed chances out there. 
 So, yeah, 72 is not great.  A couple better would have been reasonably satisfied with. 

 Q.  What are your thoughts heading to the weekend? 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Hole a few more putts.  (Smiling). 

 Q.  With 36 to play, how do you feel about your position? 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Obviously I was four behind going out, and today was a day, obviously, to shoot 2- or 3-under par and you would be very happy with your round.  It was tougher conditions.  It was gusting a bitterly on. 
 I just didn't hit the pitches close and I didn't hole the putts, the combination and two bad bogeys in there.  Just wasn't my day. 

 Q.  In terms of the pin positions, were the pin positions harder today, as well? 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  I don't know.  Maybe they were.  Maybe they were.  You know, like the conditions were difficult.  I hit driver and a nine to the first and driver 4-iron today, and it wasn't a change of wind direction.  There was no change of wind direction.  It was purely just straight into the wind.  Yesterday we were a tiny bit into it and today it was a good bit.  And then it was gusting. 
 It was definitely a tougher day, but as I said, I hit three very bad chip shots, and I hit a couple of bad pitches and missed a few chances from, you know, reasonable birdie chances. 
 So kind of a combination of, you know, those six or seven chances there that if I took two or three of them or whatever, I would be sitting nicely. 

 Q.  What happened on the birdies? 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  I birdied the second.  I hit a 3-wood, 5-wood to the back edge of the green and chipped and putted it. 
 14, I hit driver, 4-iron over the green and chipped and putted it. 

 Q.  Just grinding out on a day like this? 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Yeah, but it still provides opportunities to score.  There are a couple of reachable par 5s and things.  You've got to make a few birdies out there.  The two bogeys are tougher.  One of them I drove to the edge, like 15 yards off the green and chipped it over the green and duffed the chip and missed the putt.  And the other one, I was careless, as well. 
 So, you know, there was some tough holes -- I played the tough holes fine.  I kept it on the fairway all day and I didn't have any situation where I wasn't really in trouble all day.  So, you know, looking back, I definitely could have made more of the round. 
 I feel good about my game.  No question about that, especially where I played it from today, I hit it down the fairway all day, which is important out there.  I don't necessarily feel there was anything wrong with the putting today, but a few tentative reads of the greens and tentative putts.  I don't feel like I have to fix anything. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT