PGA GRAND SLAM OF GOLF
October 17, 2007
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JULIUS MASON:  Padraig Harrington, finishing 69, 4-under par, losing to Angel Cabrera in the PGA Grand Slam of Golf.   
 Some comments, then we'll go to Q&A.   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  I was really struggling with my swing.  I worked hard to keep myself in there.  I wasn't happy -- to be honest, I wasn't happy with any part of my game.  I wasn't swinging, chipping or putting well.  I worked really hard to keep myself in that position to stay out in front.  Obviously it's a lot easier course when you're chasing rather than leading out there.   
 But not much.  I was beaten by a birdie eagle.  Obviously a great finish by Angel.  I suppose that's about it.   
 JULIUS MASON:  Questions.   
  
  Q.  How difficult were the greens out there today?   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  I thought the greens were good.  We all 3-putted the second because it was all down grain, up a hill into the grain and over the top.  So it was a tough, tough pin.   
 But besides that, okay, maybe the fifth, par 5, 12, short par 5, the green is because you're going up and over the green can make it difficult.  I thought it was a good challenge.  I enjoyed the challenge, actually.  I think it was a very fair challenge.   
  
  Q.  You talk about you leading and holding everyone off.  It seemed strange out there to have so many like a musical chair?   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Couldn't keep track of who was coming behind me.  Unfortunately I was watching it, seeing who was doing what and it's hard to -- it was hard to get away from it, watching the other guys, thinking, well, we were three, four, five shots ahead.  Obviously this course is a lot easier when you're chasing and they all managed to make a lot of birdies when they were coming from behind.   
 It's the nature of the course.  It's an exciting course.  But when you're out in front, there is a lot of trouble out there you get a bit cautious.   
  
  Q.  Did you at all feel like Sergio?  Too short of a question, but I was intrigued?   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Never crossed my mind.   
  
  Q.  Could you give us a sense of what you were talking about earlier in the week a scenario in which you had been leading?   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  No doubt about it.  When you're leading, especially by a few shots, you are defensive in your play.  You're cautious about your shots and your club selection.  It's always a lot easier to come away when you don't lose and you make some birdies and you feel like you're playing well.  Whereas a guy leading a tournament tends to be cautious, makes a few pars, throws in a bogey and he thinks he's playing bad.  It's a strange scenario.  It's very difficult to -- I suppose it's something you learn from experience.  But we're not often enough in those positions.   
  
  Q.  So your mood going into a playoff, having led the last 30 holes or what have you?   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  It was hard to go into a playoff.  The hole, birdie eagle, or just eagle.  I'd like to see the back of that the first time around.  With the pin position that was there, it was set up obviously for par and eagle, putting it in the bowl.  And we saw obviously it was -- going into a playoff into that I certainly didn't feel like going into the playoff.  I didn't see any advantage that I had.   
  
  Q.  You sounded generally really disappointed.  Even though this is an exhibition, is it disappointment the same as a regular event the same?   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  I never want to lose.  I don't want to lose a playoff.  It doesn't matter.  I was trying as hard as -- I tried hard every time 100%.  That's the nature of who I am.  The day I don't try 100% I'll --   
  
  Q.  How many times have you been to Bermuda previously?   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Zero.  First time.  Loved it.  Will come back and hopefully many times maybe in a more relaxed situation where I'm not having to get a flight out.   
 JULIUS MASON:  Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT