WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 5, 2007
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Did you enjoy that? 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Yeah, I stuck in there well the first three days.  Today was kind of half and half.  I played it a little better and at times needed to get up-and-down a few times, as well.  I certainly can't complain about the score.  I probably got the most out of the weekend, and that's always a good sign. 

 Q.  You said at the start your objective was to prepare for next week.  Have you done that here? 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  You know, I may have won the Open two weeks ago, but it's the same old story out on the course.  A lot of work and a lot of discipline has to go into it, and at times my focus wandered.  While I was good this week in my preparation, it'll certainly needs to be better for next week. 

 Q.  Was it nice to get on the golf course and get away from all the hubbub? 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  No, I like all the hubbub.  I'm only going to win my first major once so it's good to enjoy it.  It's good to be out there playing.  I was determined to put in a reasonable effort this week, and I did knock it down well, but now it's the PGA next week, it's another tournament, and we've got to get going for that. 

 Q.  It's been such a busy time.  Do you feel like you've got a lot in the tank for next week? 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Yeah, I feel fine.  I obviously have a few things to work on.  I wasn't quite happy with how I was swinging it this week, and like I said, a little bit of some focus issues, but it's all good stuff.  I know what I need to do, and hopefully fare well the next three days and be ready to go on Thursday. 

 Q.  Will you go there tomorrow? 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  I will go up to the course tomorrow and get settled in and get all the stuff that needs to be done, maybe play a few holes and have a look at the place, then maybe try and get a bit of the sundry stuff out of the way so that come Tuesday and Wednesday I can prepare well for the tournament. 

 Q.  You've played it once in one tournament? 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Yes. 

 Q.  2001. 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  It was fine as I remember.  The 18th green was a bit bumpy, but the rest of the golf course, there was nothing on the course to fear.  There wasn't any holes that I remember that I was think thinking, ooh -- there's not too many holes like the 18th at Carnoustie. 

 Q.  Four rounds was quite important, and you knew you were going to get four rounds? 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  This is a great event to have a week before the major. 

 Q.  Rather than when it was flipped the other way? 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Yeah, when it's behind the major -- I think it's a bigger event the week before.  The week after you kind of had put everything into the PGA, and it kind of was a bit of a downer the week after.  I think this is a good week to have this event.  It was excellent obviously to know we were going to get four rounds of golf, as well, on a tough course.  You're not going to find any courses as hard as this. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT