WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 4, 2007
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  You came out of the traps like you were on fire there, but the rest of the day was quite tough, I think. 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Yeah, first five holes I had good chances all five of them, missed a couple of putts, everything is looking good, then I lost the focus -- had a careless three-putt on the 6th and made a double bogey and three-putted the next, three-putt bogey, so that kind of put me a bit on the back foot for the rest of the day.  Missed the fairway at 9, so that's -- basically that was it.  After a couple of three-putts in a row, I didn't putt anywhere near as well as I had been putting, pretty straightforward. 

 Q.  It must be fairly brutal out there looking at the number of blue numbers. 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  I didn't find it too bad, though.  It got up a little bit, the wind, but obviously as I say, I thought certainly early on there was plenty of chances.  You hit the fairways, hit good iron shots, hole a couple of putts and you're okay. 

 Q.  Is there any option when you hit it in the rough, or is it just pretty much hack it out? 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Yeah, the first two days I hit in the rough and I made some pars.  You know, it's definitely tough.  A few of the times I hit it in the rough -- you know, there's trees, as well, it's not just rough.  The trees overhang quite a bit, so you don't have the angle.  You can't shape it if you're in the rough.  So there's a lot of -- like at the 9th I would have reached it with the second shot out of the rough, but I couldn't get it.  There was a branch overhanging and I didn't want to hit that.  There was a lot of that out there. 
 It's good.  It's very tough.  It's hard and fast.  If you hit the fairways -- it's certainly not playing long.  The ball is rolling out. 

 Q.  Do you feel that the time is going to come when you're going to -- the enormity of what you've done will hit you, or have you got past that? 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  I can't tell you that because it hasn't happened, so I can't tell you that. 

 Q.  You'd just be guessing? 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Yeah.  It hasn't happened, so I can't tell you. 

 Q.  So you realize it might? 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Yeah, it's certainly a possibility.  But as I pointed out yesterday, in terms of the -- you know, the added attention and issues like that, it's not a quantum leap. 

 Q.  So you're saying Charlie, Carl and Philip are always there? 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  You know, in Ireland it's such a small place, that every day I walk off the golf course, whether I shoot a good or a bad score, I still have to talk to the boys, so I'm well used to that.  It would be unusual if I walked off the course and there wasn't somebody there.  That's why it's not a quantum leap. 

 Q.  Like Paul Lawrie, I think he found that possibly a little bit. 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Yeah, at the end of the day I allow like 20 minutes after every round in order to get through these things. 

 Q.  It's got to have gone up by a factor of three or five? 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  It's gone up by a factor but not -- not necessarily by that much.  Out on the course it has, but then I get good support.  There's always Irish people there following, so I've got good support.  It's certainly a step up, but as I said, it's not a quantum leap. 

 Q.  Where is the jug right now?  Is it in your house? 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  It's in a box. 

 Q.  It's not displayed yet? 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  It's all boxed up sitting at home, not on display.  It will be on display on my breakfast table the minute I get home. 

 Q.  Just to revert to this tournament, is 3 over and gone, or is that still just in the periphery of it, a shout tomorrow?  Because, for example, Johnson went 8, 6 on 9 and 10. 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  It depends how many are left up there.  It depends what they finish at.  As I said, this morning going out, I felt at a minimum you needed 3- or 4-under.  There's only two guys under par now, and it depends how they finish.  There's no doubt you don't have to do much wrong out there to shoot 73 or 72.  You know, whatever is leading.  It means a lot -- it depends on other people.  Certainly it's possible to shoot a good score and it's possible to play okay and shoot 72.  So yeah, you can pick up -- you could pick up six shots.  It depends how many I'm behind.  If 4- or 5-under is leading, I think -- 

 Q.  It would be a struggle? 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  It would be a bit of a struggle.  But we'll try and shoot our best score no matter what tomorrow, so I don't have to worry too much about what everybody else is doing. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT