WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 2, 2007
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PADRAIG HARRINGTON: It was a hard day for me. I worked hard for the score. 72 is not a bad return but I didn't hit enough fairways. I am still in the tournament but a 72 although it was annoying to drop one at the last. It was always going to be a hard day though.   
  
  Q. 10 days since you became Open Champion. What's happened since?   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: It's been a bit of blur. It's gone very quickly but it's been great. A really good party was one of the highlights.   
  
  Q. What is your abiding memory?   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: The actual putt dropping on the last hole. I have a lot of memories of the Open but the actual putt, the last six inches of it going into the middle of the hole, and there is a sense of disbelief. There should be no doubt because it went right in the middle, no question. But I don't think a putt at perfect pace going right into the middle has ever been doubted so much!   
  
  Q. What advice have you asked of other Major Champions?   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I just asked the one best thing and the one worst thing they did after winning a Major. This week, though, is very much about getting ready for next week. Four rounds to get myself ready. A lot of it is just getting my head back in the right place and getting mentally strong.   
  
  Q. You had a weight on your back in the gym. What weight was it?   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: 60 kilos. That's the maximum weight I put on and I stay a maximum of a minute at that weight but the exercise can be up to six minutes.   
  
  Q. today. Thoughts?   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Disappointed not to par the last. I got myself into position. I didn't play well enough or hit enough fairways, but didn't do myself too much harm. I need to get back into  things. I was a long, long way away from what I was in the last round of the Open in terms of my focus. I've got to build back up. It's a cruel game. It doesn't last.   
  
  Q. Glad to be back playing again?   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I was really, really, looking forward to the guy on the first tee announcing 'The Open Champion' and he didn't do it! They used to have a guy here who went into a lot of theatrics announcing the name and they sacked him because he did too much. I wish he was there today. He just said: 'Padraig Harrington, Ireland'. I was gutted! I was looking forward to it for the last 24 hours.   
  
  Q. How many replicas will you get?   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I think three. I will go for the maximum. I will ask the other guys how many flags they ordered, how many pictures, that sort of thing. I've ordered 1000 flags. I don't know if that's enough. Not just golfing things to ask - it's the 18th flag. I had four people following me yesterday who had 20 each to be signed...all for their grandchildren!   
  
  Q. How much is a replica?   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I don't know. I heard the figure of £18,000, but these are the things I need to ask. I will get as many as I can. They won't go to waste. I'm not sure but I believe I can get three.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT