THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2007
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Padraig, well done.  After the last two Opens where you haven't started well, it must be very satisfying to get a good round under your belt?   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  It is always good to start well in any championship.  You don't want to play your way over on Thursday.  69 is a good return.  It's well in there.  I've just got to play the same golf the next three days.   
  
  Q.  You decided to play the Irish PGA Championship on a links course last week rather than play Loch Lomond.  It looks like that was really a good decision?   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  It was a good decision, as well as playing a four round tournament in a nice relaxed atmosphere on a links golf course, it kind of -- it's ideal preparation, really, for a big event.  I wish I could do it for every major.   
  
  Q.  Is that what experience tells you now, that you can really prepare yourself properly for the majors to make sure you know what's best for yourself?   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Yeah, I'm definitely getting better at it.  It's not foolproof, that's for sure.  But I'm definitely getting better at what I need to do to get myself ready for a major.  And tournaments like last week are very much a part.  I need to play an event as a warmup for a major to get myself competitive.  I think last week sort of proves that when I shot 69 the first round.   
  
  Q.  It's a vintage day for the Irish.  Paul McGinley up there, Rory McIlroy is playing so well.  It's a great day.   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  It's fantastic.  I only wish I was sitting in watching it on TV.  It's obviously a very impressive score for any amateur, for any 18-year-old.  Or is he only 17, I'm not quite sure.  So I look forward to seeing the highlights of it tonight.   
  
  Q.  Paul McGinley up there, as well?   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Yeah, I played in the practise round with Paul yesterday.  He played very well.  He has played well in Opens before and led Opens before.  No surprise there.  It's great to see.   
  
  Q.  You won the dunhill links championship here and you're also around all of the loop of St. Andrews, Carnoustie, Kingsbarns.  You've done that twice.  Does that give you a little bit of an edge over the rest of the field, do you think?   
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  I don't know if I quite have an edge, but it does give me some familiarity, having won the dunhill links championship here twice.  Yeah, it's one of those things that's always nice to have in your memory bank.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT