U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2007
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Good finish, as well; where did that come from? 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Well, I suppose that's the way it goes at times.  At least I made a birdie -- two birdies. 
 I wasn't playing well and I just got caught up in a bit of trouble.  Just didn't get myself out of it. 
 You know, it's easy to look back and say I should have done one or two things different and certainly would have made the cut, but, you know, I wasn't feeling very good about my game at all.  I was struggling.  You know, got in trouble and made some mistakes and got a few bad breaks in it.  You know, it all ended up in nine shots in four holes. 

 Q.  You got a kick in the teeth on 9th and looking at 10th -- did the 9th knock the stuffing out of you? 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  10 was more annoying than anything.  I hit a good tee shot down the right edge of the fairway and to finish in the heavy rough on the left was a bit much. 
 But, yeah, then I hit a poor tee shot on 11.  You know, it wasn't -- we could argue about me being ten over par or 13 over par or something like that, so I wasn't playing very well, and that was it. 
 You know, I was getting by and staying in there somewhat, but I would have needed to find something and it wasn't happening. 
 So, yeah, okay, I had a bad run, but the bad run only took me from making the cut to not making the cut. 

 Q.  Did you feel that you beat yourself or did the course beat you? 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  I didn't play well this week. 

 Q.  Yesterday as well? 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Yeah, I struggled yesterday.  I hit some terrible shots yesterday.  That was definitely evident today. 
 So, you know, yeah, definitely if things went right for me, I would be there, 9-, 10-over, 8-over par, something like that; maybe if I had a good day I would be six or seven over par but I wasn't playing good golf at all.  I was struggling, striking it poorly and with where it was going, there was not enough room out there for me. 

 Q.  Not the place to struggle? 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  I just played badly, that was it.  As I said, I could have, you know -- if I didn't get this bad break or that bad break, I would have made the cut.  I wasn't playing well and that was it. 
 I was trying to make the cut, there's no question about it at the end there.  Maybe if it was four or five years ago, six years ago, maybe I would have been -- I wouldn't have been as unhappy, let's say to be in the middle of the field.  I was probably a little bit -- I wasn't playing well and probably a little bit -- my expectations were high and probably a little bit down on myself and as much as I was trying on every shot, no question of that; I still was never very confident.  I didn't strike the ball well. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT