U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2007
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I didn't play well, especially early on and was doing well hanging in there. Unfortunately two late bogeys came at holes I felt I might have made birdies on. I hit a fair shot on one and probably my best shot of the day on the other and made bogey. You are going to hit good shots at times and make bogeys. 
 I can't complain about the score in its entirety but I certainly could have been a couple better at the end. The holes I bogeyed I could have parred and then I had a chance at the end there which could have gone in. I did hole putts as well. I wouldn't walk away from this saying I should have scored better, but I could have scored better. Once you get outside six feet, I must have had a 12 footer at the last on a reasonably flat green and had an 18 inch breaker. Once outside 6 feet you have to get the exact pace and line. But the greens are very good so it is not too hard to make your par putts. 

 Q.  Did the rain slow things up a little? 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  We are choosing lines which are dead weight. Saying you need to be up here doesn't apply. Person who tries that out here will not hole putts. Either it is correct pace or it is nothing. Most players have realised that to hole putts on these greens you have to drop them right in and you will leave some short but that is part of playing these tournaments. 

 Q.  73 leaves you hanging around there? 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  I played a lot better the last couple of days than I did today. I wouldn't have minded shooting 73 if I felt I played good golf. I need to play better the next three days. I managed it around and it could have been a couple better but that was as poor as striking round as I have had all year. 

 Q.  How much harm has it done to your chances? 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  None. I don't think I have done any damage. The problem for me is trying to play well for the next three days after not playing well today. There was something up with the timing and I would be more worried about that than being three over par. 

 Q.  Will today be the better scoring day? 
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Conditions were lovely, greens receptive and the pace good. Pin positions were probably generous. Today was a good scoring day. You have a number of wedge shots out there and with the greens the way they are you can make some birdies. I had none, Zach had none and Ernie made two but you feel you can make birdies. I have to play a lot better the next three days. Ernie looked as if he played very good golf and he shot three over. The guy who wins this  tournament is going to shoot 73 at least one day and I am not worried about my score, just the way I played. I will go and hit a few shots and try and work it out. If you are playing well you wouldn't go and do that. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT