HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 9, 2006
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  How was the course playing today?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  I think ultimately the ball is releasing on the greens, so it's very hard to get the ball to stop or spin because there's quite a bit of sand in the surface of the greens.  It really does make a couple of the par 3s very difficult.  You kind of have to play away from the pin.  A little bit awkward.  You have to be very strong to do that.  Quite a few holes, I would say.

Today the ball is travelling and you have a few more wedges in your hand and that's where the birdies were made, on the par 5s, some good wedge shots, as well.
Q.  Expect a good start?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Didn't expect anything, no.  When you take off the week before, you're a little bit flat.  A good start like that is going to help obviously.  But you know, on the practise days, I was happy to make a few birdies and make a few putts on the back nine, and that kept me right in there.
Q.  When are you taking a break?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Over Christmas
Q.  Can you take us through your birdies?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Stone dead on 10 and 11, my first and second holes.  Chipped it stone dead on the 15th.  Two birdies for tap ins and I missed a few chances on the other holes, actually, through the first nine holes.  But then I knocked it on 11 in two so that was a birdie as well.

Holed probably about a 50 footer on the fourth hole and a 25 footer on the fifth hole.  My third hole the 12th, hit 5 iron and was trying to hold it at the flag.  I knew it couldn't carry the bunker, hit it to four feet and missed the putt.
Q.  You had so much time to enjoy your status as European No. 1.
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Yeah, it's only been a week.  It's nice to be back out.  A lot of people have been congratulating me here, a lot of players, but unfortunately there will be a new No. 1 at the end of this week.
Q.  You said at the start of the week:  "If I do win, I can keep my status for a week longer."
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  It's only a week break between schedules.  If you win here, you'll probably hold on to the Order of Merit lead through Christmas, so hopefully I'll do that.

I played nice and solid on the front especially, had a lot of chances.  On the back nine I holed a couple more putts and had to get up and down as well.  So the back nine was good scoring.  The front nine was excellent tee to green.
Q.  What's good about your game?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Good mentally, finding a happy place out there.
Q.  Cash in the pocket at a decent rate?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Not thinking about it which is a good sign.
Q.  You're in good shape and a chance to win at the end of the week.
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  5 under is a good start.  I find the course tough.  So it's important to get off to a good start and not be chasing and taking on the wrong shot.  The ball is releasing a lot on the greens.  So 5 under, I can be a little bit more patient and take my time to attack.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT