PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2006
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  It was fine, wasn't it?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Yeah, more than unlikely.  I was never very confident over the ball.  I snuck in there nicely and was 2 under par after 13 holes.  Obviously had a bit of a blip in the next two holes.
Q.  (Inaudible).
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Nice try, but I hit it through the fairway on the left.  I tried to hit sand wedge out of a bad lie and obviously hit it over the green, just between the heavy rough and the short rough and chipped it to 15 feet and missed it.

Next hole I was a very easy pin position and I tried to get it up there because if you're hitting a wedge in there it really is with the backstop a very good birdie chance.  I hit it in the bunker, hit right from there just short of the green and hit a terrible chip right out of the rough to about 15 feet, just missed it.

Next hole hit the wrong club off the tee.  I hit 5 wood straight down the middle but it just ran through.  It's not a fairway to miss.  It's probably    it's crucial to that one get it on the fairway.  Second shot hit it left in the rough and had a very bad lie.  They've regrown in the rough and I didn't get it up the hill at the last, and then I duffed my chip.  Then I hit a nice pitch to about six feet and missed the putt.
Q.  (Inaudible).
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Well, I was very easily 2 under par at that stage.  Even know I didn't feel    my preparation hasn't been that good and I didn't feel very good over the ball.  I was really sticking it in there and making it as easy as possible for me.  It's going nicely.

I had a six footer on 13 to go 3 under par.
Q.  Did that upset you or not?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  No, not at all.  I hit a hybrid club I carry.  It was a very, very nice shot, nice chance, six footer.  It didn't really bother me at all.  I should have gotten a sand wedge on the green out of the rough on the next hole.  I should have played a bit more defensive off the next tee, and I definitely should have played more defensive off the tee beyond that.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT