DEUTSCHE BANK PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP OF EUROPE
July 28, 2006
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Padraig, 68 yesterday, 65 today.  What was the difference between the two rounds?  And don't say three shots.
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  You'll hate me for saying it, but yesterday I played really well and today I played terrible.  I was really erratic.  I recovered after I hit some bad shots and hit a few shots close, made lots of birdies, holed some putts, whereas yesterday I played real consistently and had a couple of early three putts and missed a lot    missed about six short ones yesterday, and couldn't really miss today.
Q.  You must have found the greens a lot more difficult this afternoon but you managed to hole them?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Yeah, well, this is the thing.  When they start going in, you just let it happen, and if you start missing it gets really difficult because they are very soft and bumpy out there.  If they're getting away from you    if you mis hit a putt at all, it can go the opposite way through the break.  You've got to be a little bit lucky on these sort of greens, and that's what I did today.

I made a good sand save on the 1st hole from about six feet and never really looked back.  They say golfers shouldn't do that.  Surely if I hit it to 15 feet at the 1st and missed the putt, I'd be in a bad mood going to the next hole, miss the green, get up and down, think this is okay and keep holing the putts afterwards.
Q.  Disappointing Open Championship for you.  Do you feel you benefitted from the time off?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Not really, no.  I've got two more weeks off now coming up, and I do need that period to rest.  The French Open was one week too far, and I've been struggling since then.  Even though it was a good week for me, I didn't play the European Open well, I didn't play the British Open well.  Both weeks I would think I was swinging the club very well.

That's the reason why we shouldn't play too many events.  I was obviously pushing at the time to make Ryder Cup points.  Obviously it was a good week that week, but certainly I'm paying the price now.  Two weeks off coming up, get through the next two days and hopefully those are two good weeks to get some rest.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT