PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 21, 2016
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  63, you look like you're having a lot of fun out there.  
PÁDRAIG HARRINGTON: I was holing a few putts, of course I was having fun.  It's nice to be making a few birdies.  Felt like I had home support out there.  Obviously a lot of Irish people down here.  I suppose it's a little while since I've been getting those sort of cheers on the golf course, so I was appreciating it and enjoying it.   
 Q.  You showed us some magic especially on the 11th hole, that bladed chip.  Is that something you practice?  
PÁDRAIG HARRINGTON: I have done.  I keep on top of it now but that's something you learn as a kid.  It's not something I'm practicing week-to-week, no, but I would hit it at least once every tournament I play.  So it's a go-to shot for me, put it like that.  One in the memory bank.   
 Q.  What's working well in the Harrington game this week?  
PÁDRAIG HARRINGTON: Obviously I'm putting well.  Longer putts, putting well.  Shorter putts are still a little bit tentative with some of the lines.  Outside of that, I have been playing well for quite a while.   
So kind of more focused on the mental side of it, which is always a good sign, you know, when a player is kind of thinking about his routine and that.  You realise how sloppy it is at times, so I need a strong weekend and that, get my mind clear and good things happen.   
 Q.  Now you've won in all sorts of conditions.  Do you prefer a shootout like it is this week with birdies or the grind of a level par?  
PÁDRAIG HARRINGTON: I've done both.  I don't get a choice.  So whatever the conditions are.  I think, yeah, look, who knows.  I certainly enjoy when everybody else is struggling in tough weather, so that would be nice.   
But I think the tees are moved back.  The tee times are moved back tomorrow, so it should be another nice weekend.  I expect somebody is going to go low over the weekend and get it into the 20s.  I'm going to have to follow or else lead, one or the other.   
 Q.  14-under is winning now.  What do you think is going to win?  
PÁDRAIG HARRINGTON: It's an interesting course.  There are some shots to be hit, like if you want to hit the fairway on 18, you've got to hit a good shot.  7 is the same.  If you want to hit the fairway, you've got to hit a good shot.   
So that's harder when you're leading the tournament and you've got something to protect.  Lining up and aiming at the water, say, down 7 and hitting the right shot to hit the fairway, it takes a bit, when you've got something to protect.  It's not so hard to do when you're in the middle of the pack.   
So you will see guys tend to charge very well on this golf course.  You will see somebody shoot 14-under par on the weekend, no doubt about it.  But not all the leaders are going to do it.  It's going to be tougher for the leaders.   
Look, who is going to predict it -- as I said, Andy Sullivan went mad last year and kept going mad.  He's up there again this year.  It's not hard to believe that if he's in form he won't get into the mid 20s.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT