U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 18, 2006
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Talk about the disappointment.  You were right there and had a chance.
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Yeah, I'm very disappointed obviously.  You know, three pars to win the Open.  It probably doesn't get any easier than that.  It sounds very easy anyway.  You know, I hit three good tee shots, got it in play.  You know, that's the way it goes.

As I said, I certainly ruined this one.

Q.  Can you take any consolation in the fact that Mickelson and Montgomerie also had problems coming down the stretch?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  No.  I was never happy with my game, and it just caught me out a little bit at the end.  You know, that's a pity, but it's a tough test out there.  Obviously I three putted the last going for a putt, so I'm not too worried about that.  That's the way it is.  I really needed to keep myself    the last couple of holes, I wasn't so comfortable where I was hitting it or anything that I needed to keep myself out of trouble and got a little bit out of position on 16 and 17, and two bogeys followed.

Q.  Did you know the situation right through the finishing holes?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  I knew I was there thereabouts, yeah, definitely.

Q.  For instance, did you know you were tied for the lead?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  No, I knew I was there thereabouts.  I was one off the lead at that stage is what I thought.

Q.  Did you have any idea as to what might win at that stage?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  No.  Did anybody?  If somebody knew what was going to win it, I think    no, at that stage I was trying to make    I probably was trying to make birdies coming home, yes, there's no question about that, the last three holes.  But the three pin positions are easy, certainly the pin position at 16 and 17, the safe shot is actually close to the hole because they were both in little bowls.  They weren't pin positions you would have been laying up on, they were holes you would have been trying to make birdies, and that's what I was trying to do.

Q.  Is it the course or is it the pressure that just got to everybody here at the end?
 PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  It's a combination of the two.  Without a doubt, you're looking at a difficult golf course.  You get slightly out of position and then you get slightly out of position at the end of a U.S. Open, it's tough, definitely.  It's a combination of both things.  At the end of the day, the guy who wins the U.S. Open chips in on 17.  That was just a phenomenal chip he hit at 18.  That's what the winner does.

Another guy, it's either bogeys or double bogeys the last, that's what it is.  The winner does do the things right at the end of the day, but he's only a hair's breadth from being like the other guys.  It's getting into position and hoping the cards fall at the right place at the right time.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT