BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2006
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Only time I was out of position really all day was on 17 where I hit it right, not the best break in the world.
Q.  What was your f eling, did you get into any positive frame of mind, or can you force yourself into a positive frame of mind around here?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  I played lovely golf, played well all day.  I made two birdies both from three or four inches, both of them.  Yeah, you need to make a few more birdies.  That's about it.
Q.  Graeme McDowell was saying that you find a seven foot putt and you don't know if it's going one way or the other ways, is that the difficult with those type of putts?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  I was four foot on those and I was edging them left half and I was a little bit more worried about maybe it would go left.  So I aim at the left side, and it broke six inches on a putt that I thought might go the other way.  Like if I was on the side of a hill, I could understand the break; six inches.

On the last, the last thing you want to do is leave yourself a four foot on the green.  It's got a lot of water, it's retaining a huge amount of water on that green.  It was always going to be very dodgey around the hole.

I hole putts on poa annua greens.  I finds these ones difficult to read I've got to say.  As I said, it is tough.  It's one thing putting on poa annua greens when you have an idea which way it's going to break.  It's tougher when you don't know.  That's the way it goes.  It seeps into you confidence wise if you're not making any birdies.

I think that's the crucial element of it, get a few good chances early on and if you don't, if you hole a couple of those and get under par.  And if you don't you're always hanging around level par.  You can't get away from it where if you make one or two putts early on, all of a sudden you're 2 under par that's the way it goes.
Q.  Have you always found it difficult to read these greens?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Yes.  Unbelievably so.  Yes, very, very tough.  And I'm quite experienced on them.  I'm quite familiar with some of the putts.

You're always going to get surprises if you don't have that much confidence over a lot of your reading and things like that.  But I've got to say now, I had a better day on the greens out there.  If I think about holing a putt on the last, it would have been something.  But there you.  You really don't want to be leaving short putts, and that's going to be the difficulty tomorrow afternoon.
Q.  17, you were in a bush?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Yeah, I hit my tee shot right.  I hit my tee shot right and it ricocheted back into the bushes.  I made a great shot to get it out, really good.  Then I hit a very good wedge long left, found it a bit too hard to hold into the wind and chipped it to about four feet.
Q.  Any thoughts of going back to the tee?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Really close.  I actually did not think I would be hitting the ball.  But when I got in there it was better than I thought in terms of there was more room for me to stand up.  I thought I could actually get my ball up to maybe 75 percent of height in there where I thought it was going to be punched right over.  It was bad, but actually got a little bit better than it looked on the outside.  I thought I was going to make five.  And as it turned out, to have to hole a tricky putt on the greens, the last thing you want at the end of the day is short putts.  You actually want to just keep it to 20 feet.  That's the easiest way to play the course is give yourself so many 20 footers that you can't go wrong.
Q.  If it wasn't a Ryder Cup year, would you have perhaps considered not playing this week, because as you said yesterday, the greens do your head in?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  I think I probably would have played.  Yeah, I think so.  The other thing with these greens, you get on a roll and you keep rolling them in.  That's what happens.  You hole one and they all go in.  You misread it and it goes in, and you read it right    it does.  That's the nature.
Q.  Doing to be tough in the afternoon?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  It's going to be very tough tomorrow afternoon.  It's going to start drying out.  So you just want to keep hitting it 20 feet all day, 2 putt, make a few birdies on the par 5s and you'll be okay.
Q.  Don't imagine you're surprised to see Peter Lawrie up there?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Played some holes with him last week and just wondering why he's not up there more often.  He's a very talented player.  Yeah, definitely.  That's exactly what I was thinking last week, surprised tea doesn't sort of get into position more often.  Proving me right.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT