BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2006
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Welcome back to Wentworth, 11th last year, what sort of expectations do you bring but this week?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  I don't think I could ever bring high expectations here.  You know, I had to work hard last year to finish 11th.  So it's not a golf course that good results have come easily to me.

Happy to see some changes.  That's always good when you come to a golf course that if you haven't performed up to your own expectations, it's great when they change a few things.

So it will be interesting to see.  Haven't played them as yet but looking forward to that end of it.  I'm looking forward to the tournament.  It's always nice to come to a golf course where you're trying to battle yourself more so than the field.  You know, if you go to a course that you play well, then you have a lot of expectations and you're more aware of the other guys.

This week, it's very much    I've got my own problems to look after this week, and that's really what I've got to focus on
Q.  How do you find playing around this course?  Would you say that it doesn't come easy to you?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  No, it doesn't come easy to me, no.
Q.  What is it particularly?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Well, I hit it out of bounds seven times out of eight on the 17th at one stage, so that doesn't help.  You know, there's a lot of things about the course.  Obviously my opinion of the thatch in the greens is well known.  That's where ultimately I struggle - I struggle on the greens.

But I didn't hit it out of bounds there last year.  It's a new back tee.  Anyway, I'm just saying other golf courses, some guys find it hard and you find it easy.  This course, you know, I've often found it very difficult when other guys are doing well on it.
Q.  How is your form now?  You talked about you made some swing changes?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  I'm always doing that.  I've been swinging the club this year definitely better than I've ever swung it but struggled a little bit with my scoring.  So I need to get focused in on my scoring.  I haven't hit my wedges or chipped or hit my bunker shots or putted as well as other years.

So, you know, that's really been the difference the last couple of weeks.  I've gone from 11 to 11, to 14 and all three weeks I've played horrible with my wedges.  So that's definitely where I need to be much better and more focused.
Q.  Looking at the Ryder Cup standings, I know you spoke a bit about this recently, these are sort of big money events where you want a good result.
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Yeah, the last two weeks making good cheques and good points, but you're not going to make it up.  I think I won 40,000 the last couple of weeks.  You're not going to make it with those sort of points.  You need to do what Thomas did last week.  That win is equivalent to about nine spots.  So it's a lot easier when you do it in wins.  So that's really the way forward is to try and win one.
Q.  More rain again.  Should play quite long.
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  I'm happy enough with that.  That doesn't    I would think that would suit me rather than anything else.  But I just am worried about the greens, and now that they are soft.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT