NISSAN IRISH OPEN
May 18, 2006
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GORDON SIMPSON:  Just to let you know, Padraig is in a hurry, which is hardly surprising since he's been here for about the last 12 or 13 hours.  Just give us a quick assessment of a very long but probably quite satisfying day.
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Yeah, I think I'm obviously pleased with the score.  I think at the end of the day, I was happy to get the last five holes over and done with in level par for those five holes.

So, yes, happy enough.  Had a couple of bogeys with two 3 putts, but I suppose the hole I was on the most pressure on I chipped in.  So after that, I really did put myself    I got myself in good position all day except a couple of wayward putts on the greens.

I wasn't very comfortable with the wind on the greens.  I wasn't trusting the pace.  With the greens being a little bit    supposedly a little bit slower, just didn't feel great on the greens all day.  So I was happy enough to get a few 10 footers in and that's produced a decent score for me.
Q.  Inaudible?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  No, always with the weather    what the weather does is it takes people out of the game.  But it doesn't    it always comes down to if you can keep going, it will always come down to the last nine holes on a Sunday.

But what happens, it's like    it's the old saying, you can't win the tournament on Thursday, but you sure can lose it.  And the weather really does that, a lot; on a Thursday and Friday, you know, if you get the bad side of the draw, it can knock you out of contention.  But saying that, it doesn't    it can be a great advantage.  It could be a great advantage for the other guys tomorrow.

Every week, we're always pessimistic.  We always reckon the other side of the draw is the better draw, the better draw, it's always sunnier, the grass is greener over there, all that sort of stuff.  You ask every player and they will tell you    they will always love to be pessimistic; well, they get it better.  It's always just preparing yourself for that.

Even if they do get a bit better weather, hopefully I'll still be in the tournament.  You know, I have 2 1/2 more rounds to get myself in position with nine holes to go.
Q.  Was it hard to gauge the putting?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  I think on the second hole, I left it    I hit a hole in the first hole and went ten feet by, eight feet by and missed it.

I think on the next hole I left it eight feet short and holed it.

15 and 16 I had two chips from the fringe of the green.  I played very poorly to ten feet.  The old chip that I suppose in normal weather, you'd be hoping to chip in; all of a sudden I chip it to =ten feet and hole both of those.  Those three putts are the ones.  And then I chipped in on another hole.  I chipped in on the 6 after 3 putting the 5th.
Q.  Do you remember playing in conditions like this?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Oh, many times.  Many, many times.  You'd be playing 36 holes at the roughest point in this weather and thinking nothing of it, much worse.
Q.  How about on The European Tour?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Oh, not on the Tour.  The five holes that we played or the six holes we played in The Open Championship in Muirfield will never be matched, ever.  They were life threatening, those holes.  (Laughter).  Without a doubt, maybe because we were ill prepared for it, they were the worst conditions I've ever played golf.  Never seen conditions like it.



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT