ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 6, 2016
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Nice to be I'm sure back out on the golf course and playing this week after everything that happened last week?  
PÁDRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah, no doubt about it.  It was obviously a very exciting week last week.  I know it didn't go our way in the end but there was good team spirit amongst us.  We felt we had a chance right to the end, so that's how it goes.  Obviously I'm back here now this week and concentrating on my own golf and probably the best way of getting over the jet-lag is you've got to get up and get out and do your work.   
Most people are struggling a bit and I seem to be okay.  I'm back on the time clock.   
 Q.  Nice to get Carnoustie out of the way early on?  
PÁDRAIG HARRINGTON: It's always nice, yeah.  It was tough out there.  Conditions are quite tough, even though the weather is lovely, the ball doesn't seem to be going very far and it seems to be a pretty cold wind.  Carnoustie played tough today to get away.  I shot 2-under par today.  That's a very nice start on this course and sets me up well for the others.   
 Q.  If we go back to last week, what was it like for you, somebody who is used to being out on the course watching and not really being able to get out there and helping the way that possibly you would like to, as much as you have a huge part to play, is it difficult, that side of it?  
PÁDRAIG HARRINGTON: No, you've got to separate yourself from it.  Last week I didn't set foot on the range once.  I didn't pick up a club once.  And you know, you've got to make sure that you're never giving the impression that you're judging people or anything like that.   
We do get into it, though, after a couple of days, you do get into it and you forget about yourself and you're more into what the strategy of the team and what's happening there.  You do kind of have to get it out of your head how good they played, because I have to compete against them this week, so yeah, there's two sides to it, as well, because they look very impressive when you're on the sidelines.   
 Q.  How do you reflect on last week as a whole, now that a few days have gone by and you've been able to think about it properly in your head, how do you reflect on it?  What lessons have you learned personally and as a team together?  
PÁDRAIG HARRINGTON: Certainly in terms of lessons, I look plenty of notes of what I thought was good, what I thought could be different.  No regrets, though, about what we did.  Yeah, other partnerships or other teams could have been put together but at the time they were all done, there was no second guessing in that sense.   
I think that the team and the atmosphere amongst the team was great, and the team, the vice captain, the captain, I don't think we have any regrets about any decision we made during the week.   
With hindsight, yeah, you could change a thing or two, but not that it was not considered and thought about at the time.  What we went for is we were comfortable at the time and there's no second guessing it now.   
 Q.  How good is it for these guys to get back out early, six of them here, to get on and move on from Hazeltine and get back concentrating on a big end of the season?  Is that something that you think is important for them?  
PÁDRAIG HARRINGTON: This is a big week, Dunhill is a good tournament and it's a big week to be playing.  Probably the best way to get over it is to get back on the horse, isn't that what they say.  The guys who have travelled will be focused this week.  They might tire out by the end of the week but it's certainly a good way to get their mind back and focused.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT