BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2005
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Comment on the day, Padraig?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  It was a poor day.  I just couldn't get into it.  Made a lot of mistakes because of that and just struggled all day to really be firing and to be focused and sharp.  And it's one of those days, was a bit flat all day.  Made a lot of silly mistakes, a lot of them.
Q.  Is that unusual?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  I wouldn't say it's unusual, no.  You know, I don't know, who knows why you get a day like that.  Just you don't go out there and you're not really    I think it might come back to the old thing.  I played really well yesterday and normally when I'm playing well    when I'm swinging the club well, I get frustrated on the golf course hitting bad shots and I get very down on myself.  Whereas when I'm not so happy    put it like this:  When you're not playing well, you fight, you're prepared to fight a bit more, and I think I was a bit    the only time I felt good out there was like at the last getting up and down.  Every other time, just too relaxed, too casual, because I was swinging the club well, just not enough fear, basically.
Q.  Is that unusual, given the fact that you got two birdies early on?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  I used to do it all the time.  It's one of those things.  It's one of my traits.  If I think of swinging the club well, I just get very frustrated and very tough on myself, being down.  Whereas if I think I've got a struggle ahead of me, I tend to just get on with it and do the job.  As I said, I really only felt    it's only when I have my back to the wall that I hit the better shots.  When I was going along fine, I tend to hit some very casual shots, no more so than that second shot on 18.
Q.  What were you hitting?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Just a cut 5 wood, middle of the green, just hold it up.  Just before I pulled the club back, I thought I might have been aiming a bit left, and that's what I'm talking about.  I didn't think I could possibly miss the shot.  So the only thing that was putting me off was thinking, oh, I am aiming a bit to the left; so I blocked it out to the right.  I should have all of those, I aim it a bit left, before I pull the trigger, let's say.  That would sum it up.

When I get a bit    when I feel like I'm playing well, I just sometimes making it up just as I'm about to take the club back and having all of my permutations sorted out before I get there.

I was fine when    okay, I hit three terrible chips out on the golf course purely, again, to just not being sharp, not really being focused.  You know, when you consider the poor chip I hit on 17, I'm good.  I was pretty good when I needed to be, but far too casual and far too lackadaisical probably in my preparation on all of the straightforward, standard shots.
Q.  What do you say to yourself tomorrow morning?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  I'm pleased that three shots back.  I'm pleased about that.  I know I probably would have taken it going out, afternoon round, the wind getting up or whatever.  I don't know if it will stay three shots back, but it's not a bad start.  Tomorrow morning, something to look forward to.  And I'll just get    it's a bit like my start last week, it's a bit lack of    last week was different reasons, but it's well in there, no problems.  It's not too far behind.
Q.  A bit of trepidation yesterday before you started?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  On the greens, yeah.  I didn't have much anywhere else, but I wish I did.  Play a lot better when I have trepidation.
Q.  What would you ask Bob Rotella, what would you ask him about what happened?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  I know.  I've worked with him before.  Just too casual at the start of my routine which leads to doubt at the end of it.  Instead of having everything, you know, clear in my mind, so that when I go to pull the club away, I've made a    it's not that I would be fearing I'm going to hit a bad shot or anything like that, but when you get casual at the start of your routine you tend to    your mind tends to wander when you go to take the club back.
Q.  And your performance on the greens?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Up and down, yeah.  I certainly holed a few putts.  There was no doubt about that.  Probably took a different attitude to the greens today than in other years and you know, just I definitely holed a few.  I hit a couple of poor putts, and holed a few like the one at 16, never looked like going in and it went in.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT