WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 24, 2005
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  That was really tough out there because there was never more than one hole in it. It was real tough because around the greens is so difficult, you are not sure how your chips are going to run out if you miss the green, and you can't afford to miss the fairway off the tee so there is a lot of tension out there even though it was a first round match. It made for a long day out on the course.
Q. Are you just happy to survive?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  You are always happy to get through. I just had a really tough match and it was a long haul. Jeff wasn't giving up anything out there and it was a tough course to play him on.
Q. The 17th a bit of a blip?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Well the first putt really to knock it four feet past. I had left one short the previous hole that I didn't think I had left short and so I felt like I had to give it a little bit more. I hit the putt I wanted but it was four feet past and downhill four footers on this course when the putt is really straight is not what you want.
Q. Good to see the one here on the 18th go close then?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   I didn't realise I had hit it to two feet actually. I thought it was about six feet and when I got up and saw it was that close, it looked good. I didn't feel good over it, but the putt was good. There were a mass of heelprints out there, I don't know who made them but I caught one on the 14th and 15th. But it sort of evened itself out in our match. It was a good solid match all the way; it was tight.
Q. How good was Ian Poulter's seven under for 17 holes then?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Give me the guy who played well yesterday!
Q. What did you hit in on the last?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   I had 108 yards and I hit a nine iron. I hit a lot of really good short irons with no spin. I would normally hit a nine iron about 140 yards. Another day you'd hit a low sand wedge in there but all day I took two clubs off. I hit an eight iron from 130 yards on the 13th. When you knock down clubs it is a lottery the distance, but at least you are not getting the spin. You can hit wedge and you know you are going to land it where you want to, but you can't control it, so you are taking a little chance.
Q. You are a wise old head now, aren't you?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Well I am pretty chuffed with that shot actually.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT