TARGET WORLD CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY WILLIAMS
December 12, 2004
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
You had a good solid year.  Are you looking forward to next year and playing more events in the America?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Yes, I'm going to come over more, especially I'm going to come, March, April, May, June.  I'm going to play 6 or 7 more events than I did last year in that period.  I said I wasn't quite ready for some of the majors, certainly the Masters and the U.S. Open.  I just wasn't game sharp, so I'm going to play more early on in the year.
Q.  Inaudible.
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  16 again, two years ago I hit it right in the middle of the green when I wasn't feeling too good.  This year I hit it right when I'm feeling great.  Sometimes you hit good shots.  It was a 280 yard shot on 16.  I was really trying to hit a hard drive with a 5 wood.  Sometimes they come off and sometimes they don't.  I needed to produce something over the last couple of holes.  I knew Tiger was ahead at that stage, and I wanted to make a couple of birdies coming home.
Q.  You told us about all the traveling you're doing.  Do you think you ran out of gas?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  It's adrenaline.  Being tired is never an issue.  16 is very narrow, and 280.  I didn't hit a good shot and paid a penalty for it.

I really like the golf course.  It gives you a lot of opportunity to make birdies.  There is a lot of trouble out there, as well.  If you play good golf, you can make birdies and eagles.  It's a good golf course at this time of the year.

If you were somewhere else, maybe U.S. Open style, I don't think anybody could come back, but it's nice to make a few birdies.  I would have liked to have made less bogeys, but overall I do like the golf course.
Q.  Is it a good transition into next year?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Another second place.  I can't say I'm bored of second place.  I'm comfortable with where I'm at with my game.  I know I can improve a lot of things, but I'm very happy.  I would have said this week I've got my

A game.
Q.  From here you're taking time off.  What are you going to do?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Nine weeks off, plenty of things to do, plenty of nothing to do, as well, just sitting around.  I'll have everything to do during that period, with no schedule, so it will be a good break.
Q.
Inaudible
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:

The Europeans are getting stronger.  We've gone through a lull and we've got a lot of good players, young players that are pushing everything else.  It looks good for the European Tour at the moment and European players.  Two years ago, we didn't have anybody in the Top 10.  It's all changing at the moment.  We have plenty of good young players coming through.
Q.  Bad year for you to come over and play with the way Tiger is starting to play again?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   It looks like he's working on the right things.  I've got to say looking at him, he seems to be getting things back.  That's not a bad thing, a couple of shots back there, I would have said I was on top of my game.  I'm more concerned about me every week.  I can't be worried about him.  If he plays great, brilliant.
Q.  Were you worried about yourself going into the last round?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON: It's always the same, you've got to focus on your own game and not worry about anybody else.
Q.  The way you finished the last two weeks, even though you haven't won, is it positive?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON: It's always positive when you're in contention.  A win would have really made Christmas.  Obviously I had a good chance there.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT