WGC WORLD CUP
November 20, 2004
Padraig Harrington
Paul McGinley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








GORDON SIMPSON:  We're just going to start.  Padraig is going to be doing a radio interview and will join us.

Paul, obviously a tougher day today but, you've obviously kept yourself in the picture, and a low one tomorrow could still win it.
PAUL McGINLEY:  Yeah, we've kept ourselves in it.  Spain have really caught fire today, and it's obviously very bunched as everybody can see, but at the moment we're three behind.  Hopefully we don't go anymore than three behind starting the last day.  You know, we've got a chance, we're only three behind.
Q.  Were where were you at Kiawah, do you remember?

PAUL McGINLEY:  I think we were joint leaders.
Q.  In the last group?

PAUL McGINLEY:  I think so.  We were playing with Germany the last day I remember.  I think we were joint leaders but I stand to be corrected.
GORDON SIMPSON:  In the foursomes last year, you shot a 67, didn't you?

PAUL McGINLEY:  We played great in the foursomes last year in the last round.
GORDON SIMPSON:  How would that stack up again?

PAUL McGINLEY:  If we shoot the best score of the day tomorrow, we'll be there thereabouts; put it that way.  There are a lot of strong teams up there.  You've got Sergio and JimÃƒ ©nez, obviously, particularly Sergio.  You know, his game is all about passion and that's why he plays so well in the Ryder Cup.  He's obviously doing well this week.  He's playing in Spain.  He's got massive support; there's lots of support out there for him.  They are a formidable team under those circumstances, under any circumstances they are formidable, but with the passion they HAVE, they are going to make a tough team to beat.
Q.  The bogey on the 10th today obviously  --
PAUL McGINLEY:  It was a real blow.  In four-ball golf, you can't really afford -- it's acceptable in foursomes golf, but in four-ball, it should never happen.  We both drove it in the bunker.  I didn't have a very good lie.  I wasn't trying to play it over water.  I was trying to play it left of the water but sort of squeezed out of the bunker on me and went in the water and Padraig did the same.  I ended up holing a 12-footer for 4; so could have easily been a double-bogey.

And so, we did well to come back.  I birdied 12, 13, 14, which got us to steady the ship a little bit more again and then 16 as well.  Obviously the great birdie from Padraig on the last, which you know, keeps us there, thereabouts.  We are not in the position we'd like to be, but we're not far off.
GORDON SIMPSON:  What was your last play today?

PAUL McGINLEY:  It was a 5-iron for me and 7-iron for Padraig.  It was playing tough today, into you out of the right.
Q.  What time did you get back from the concert on Thursday?

PAUL McGINLEY:  We got back to the hotel at 10:45.  We got in early.  Are you saying you're blaming that for our score yesterday?  (Laughing.)  No, they came on stage at half nine and we spent been an hour and came back.  We met them beforehand.
GORDON SIMPSON:  That was the highlight.

PAUL McGINLEY:  Nice to have a bit of glamour in the week.
Q.  You talk a lot about momentum, is there momentum you can take from one day to the next?

PAUL McGINLEY:  Yesterday was a big body blow for us.  We've basically handed three shots to the field on that 16th hole yesterday.  Now, you know, everybody else is making 4 and we made 7.  So, that's the difference.  That's why we're not leading the tournament at the moment.  One hole at this level at the wrong time, this format, is going to cost you and yesterday it did.  You know, we shot a pretty decent score today to keep us there, thereabouts.

We had a good finish today.  It was good.  What did we have, one, two, three, four, five birdies at the last, seven holes to keep us in.  We could have easily finished 16-, 17-, 18-under and been out of the ballgame.
GORDON SIMPSON:  I just heard you say on TV a little change of plan tomorrow.

PAUL McGINLEY:  That's not official.
GORDON SIMPSON:  He's told SKY, all over the world.

PAUL McGINLEY:  We haven't discussed it enough yet.
GORDON SIMPSON:  A bit of dissent in the ranks here.

PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  He's pulling rank here.

PAUL McGINLEY:  I am pulling rank.

PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  He's senior, he's got those five years.

PAUL McGINLEY:  Like with all relationships, there has to be a row now again.

PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  He keeps speaking of this relationship.  (Laughter.)
GORDON SIMPSON:  What was your overall assessment of the day?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  The pins were tougher.  Pin positions were tougher.  The weather was tougher going out.  It got windy out there.  I think we just didn't get any breaks to make anything happen.  We played reasonable golf.   If there was any criticism, we were not enough in the holes together.  There was a lot of one guy playing the hole and the other guy looking at it sort of thing there.  The other day, we had a lot of chances, the two of us played most holes, it gives great back up when there's another guy in there.  That's where we slipped up today, if anything, we didn't get any breaks.  We don't hole any bunker shots.

PAUL McGINLEY:  Sorry about that.

PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Nothing strange happened out there.  I think the 5-under for the last eight holes has got to leave us --

PAUL McGINLEY:  Seven.

PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Seven holes, reasonably pleased.  You know, birdieing the last is the only hole out of the norm that was birdied today, which was a good way to finish and leaves us certainly thinking about tomorrow.
Q.  You couldn't go away for five minutes to discuss that and tell you what you're doing tomorrow?

PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  We'll see who --

PAUL McGINLEY:  It's a better story when there's a row.

PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  We'll see whose got the stronger rowing ability.
Q.  Titleist have announced overnight that they are not extending Paul Casey's contract.  He's learned a harsh lesson, has he?

PAUL McGINLEY:  Yeah, I don't know Paul's relationship with Titleist.  I've seen his article and, you know, okay, we were surprised like everybody.  But Paul's his own man and it's his life.  It's his decisions, his saying what to do.  I think a lot of guys in golf sit on the fence, and Paul certainly is not sitting on the fence.
Q.  Now he bitterly regrets it.

PAUL McGINLEY:  Of course he does.  It's not a nice thing to say and I'm sure Paul knows that himself.  It's nothing to do with us, I mean, none of us are sponsored by Titleist so we don't know the relationship he had with them.
Q.  You were about to say, though, that a lot of guys sit on the fence.  He's a fellow, too, that he's fairly forthright; is it a pity that you can't be forthright in this sport?

PAUL McGINLEY:  Well, there's forthright and there's forthright.  To me Monty is great for our game.  Everybody has got an opinion on Monty, and I think that's great.  Paul says what Paul says.  We can't control what anybody else says.
GORDON SIMPSON:  Did you have any harsh lessons to learn along these lines in the early days?

PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  I think in Ireland we're brought up  from a very early age, from 15 years of age we're being interviewed when you're playing the Irish Boys Team.  It's a smaller community, and I think, you know, I suppose you learn and you understand a lot more the power of what you say.
GORDON SIMPSON:  Thanks very much for coming in, guys.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT