WGC AMERICAN EXPRESS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 1, 2004
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  It was a lot better round.  Yeah, definitely.  Going out, I thought the scoring was going to be hard to come back today.  Yesterday I actually felt the opposite.  I was 3-under par after 12 holes yesterday.  I felt a little bit deflated and down about my round.  Today, 3-under par is a good, solid score out there.  Obviously Ernie has gone berserk, but that's another thing.  I thought it was good work by me out there to shoot 69 today, whereas yesterday I just felt it was okay.
Q.  (Inaudible).
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  I need to hole a few putts.  I've holed one eight-footer in two days, nothing longer than that.  To be honest, it's hard to make birdies when -- all my birdies have been tap-ins.  I might have reached a par 5 or hit the approach shot stone dead.  You can't shoot low numbers unless you hole a few putts, so hopefully I'm saving it for the weekend.
Q.  (Inaudible).
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Well, the greens are so good.  I hit a lot of good putts.  I felt I hit a lot of good putts up until maybe the last couple of holes.  It's hard when you're not seeing putts go in the hole and you start getting tentative when you're reading the putts.

I had a 15-footer for eagle on 17, which is a very straightforward up-the-hill putt and I just made no effort.  I can only put that on the fact that I hadn't seen the ball go in the hole all day, and I'm just tentative.
Q.  (Inaudible).
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Oh, yeah, gee whiz, you have to be patient.  When they start going in, they keep going in.  You can see yourself doing no wrong.  When somebody is holing putts, they start over a 15-footer and they hardly take a read, it's straightforward, the first look at it and go.  When they're not seeing the putts, they're second-guessing and triple-guessing themselves.  It's just hard to -- when one goes in, they all tend to follow.
Q.  Were the heavy showers horrendous?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  The heavy showers are very difficult.  I had one heavy shower on the first tee.  My drive was probably 50 yards short of where I hit it yesterday.  I hit it much better today.  I hit a really good drive today.  I hit 6-iron from where I would normally be hitting 9-iron on the 1st.

Just in and around the showers it got cold, the ball just didn't travel.  Once you kept it on the fairway, it was still playable.  Obviously you didn't want to get in a heavy shower if you were on one of the par 5s or something like that, because then you wouldn't have been able to reach them.  But in spite of the showers, most of the game was okay.
Q.  (Inaudible).
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  The greens are superb.  It doesn't look like they've had rain to the greens at all.  They haven't changed a bit since Wednesday.
Q.  Are you okay with your position going into the weekend?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Well, I can't do anything about it.  I don't get an option.  Can I go out and play again (laughter)?  It's okay.  We'll wait and see how the rest of the guys do.  I'm taking the position with the idea that hopefully I'll hole a few putts on the weekend.  I've counted one eight-footer, two six-footers and two five-footers, which it's just hard to make birdies when you're doing that.  I've only made eight birdies in two rounds.  I've had plenty of chances.  Most of those birdies have come on the par 5s.  Hopefully the weekend -- 6-under par is good enough for the weekend if I hole putts, but if I don't, I've got a lot of work to do.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT