DEUTSCHE BANK - SAP OPEN TPC OF EUROPE
May 23, 2004
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








GORDON SIMPSON:  Padraig, it was a phenomenal birdie battle out there, but Trevor just got you on last there.  What are your reflections on the whole day's play?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Yeah, obviously, I kept looking up at the leaderboard, and every time I looked up, I was surprised to see Trevor had made more birdies.  It really was     I suppose if we had been playing together it would have been  more of a battle, but I certainly kept an eye on the leaderboard.  I thought I was doing well, and I was surprised to see that he was keeping pace and I obviously needed to make more birdies.  You know, just came up short at the end.
GORDON SIMPSON:  And shooting 66 and falling short
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Yeah, but next week or in six months' time, nobody will remember that.  It's going to be another second place.  That's the way it is.
Q.  Did you think you would be here at this time after your third day when you were ranked 29 after the first round?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Funny enough, after the first day, I had seen I had shot 70, and I just remember that Jimenez shot 71 and won.  I knew that was still possible to win the tournament.  You know, when you see other people doing it, you realize that you're not out of the tournament and that was exactly my attitude.  Miguel Angel Jimenez won in China, I think he shot 71 in the first round, and he won quite comfortably.  It's always possible as long as you stick in there.
Q.  Can you just clarify the situation with Dave and what's happening in the future?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Yeah, myself and Dave are parting company.  We've been together 5 1/2 years, and I just     you know, we've been a good team, a very good team.  And I just feel the last couple of months, things have just     need something new, something fresh, something different.

So, certainly will be taking a break for the short term.  I'm going to look around and I have a friend who is going to take the bag for the next while, the foreseeable future, again short term.  And towards the end of the year, I'll possibly look to try out some caddies.  Most of the good caddies, in my eyes, certainly are all working at the moment.  So obviously, I'll try a few at the end of the year and I'll see how I stand at that time, whether, you know, the break was all I needed from Dave or whether another caddie is the way for me to go.
GORDON SIMPSON:  And he's called Ronan?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Yeah, he caddied for me when I split with Johnny O'Reilly the last time for a couple of weeks.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   By the book, I always do it straight .  This has been coming from me; obviously I haven't decided to finish with Dave today.  I decided to finish, basically after the Masters.  I just felt that, you know, I needed something different.

Dave has done a great job.  We have been a very good team for such a long period of time.  Nobody is more enthusiastic and works harder than Dave.  I'm prepared to try something different for a while.
Q.  Would you tell us how Dave assesses the situation?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Well, you know, we talked about what     it came as a shock to him.  I was surprised it came as a shock to him because we had gone quite a long period of time where we had not hit it off on the golf course.

So, you know, obviously these things are very difficult, very tough to happen, but as I told Dave a couple of weeks ago, he's given 100% every day on the golf course, because that's Dave's character.  He can be totally relied on to give it 100%, and I always appreciate that with Dave.  He did it     probably that's the main reason I went with Dave.  He gives more than 100%, a bit like myself, and obviously it's tough to part company in circumstances like that, but I feel it's time for a change.  As I said, we're 5 1/2 years together, things do go stale.
GORDON SIMPSON:  Exceptionally well played today, and we'll see you soon.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT