VOLVO MASTERS ANDALUCIA
November 9, 2002
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Feeling better today?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Yeah, I played a little bit better.  Could have done better. I suppose you are going to make errors on days like today.  It's not easy out there. 
I would have liked to have been better.  I think I needed a bit better, but I can't do much about that now.

Q.  How much harder was it today?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Oh, it's a tough course today.  It really is.  You need to get on top of the golf course.  If you're going well, I think you can handle the wind.  If you didn't have a bad start, either, but certainly you need a good start to keep yourself going. 
It can be done out there.  Definitely, it's very playable. 

Q.  Is there a final round 63 in your bag, like your round last week in Italy?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Certainly not in those conditions. 
It's certainly possible.  I would not say I'm putting or playing well enough to do it, but that's today.  Doesn't mean tomorrow it won't be. 
It's a tough day.  As I say, it was certainly an opportunity to make a token level par or something like that.  But then I hit a fed ropy old shots as well in the bad weather.  It's a good test out there, I can tell you.  Unfortunately, I have to practice out there, otherwise I would enjoy watching the golf on TV.

Q.  Will you practice now?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Oh, I'll practice putting.

Q.  How long was your third shot to 17?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   I had 116 yards to the front and another 15 yards, so 131 yards. 

Q.  Wind got you there?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Well, there was an acorn beside my ball, and whatever happened, the shot I hit normally  -- it's coming backwards at the end.  You know, I tell you what, it's a tough shot in there.  You've got to do what the two boys did behind.  If you hit a tee shot down the fairway, you have to be aggressive with your second shot and hit it close enough to the water that you're hitting in  -- it's more of a chip shot in.  A full shot in there is very difficult. 

Q.  Who were you upset with on the 10th? 
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Myself.  I just hit a bad shot.  Sometimes you do those things. 

Q.  What club did you use for your third shot on 17?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   8-iron.  Went about 110 yards.  Finished 109. 

Q.  So what's your thoughts about the Order of Merit situation? 
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   I don't know what Retief is doing.  I think more  -- I don't know how he's doing or whatever.  Obviously, we are both down into minor figures. 
So I would obviously need to improve substantially tomorrow.  As I say, you never know.  It might be a different day tomorrow.  Hopefully it will be. 

Q.  Is the Volvo Order of Merit now insurmountable?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   It's possible.  It's more possible now than it was the week before the Dunhill Cup.  Neither of us have played well this week.  That's why I played the last two weeks, I was hoping to get to a situation where it would be straightforward, head-to-head, which as long as we both played well straightforward head-to-head.  But that's the way it is. 

Q.  Has concentration been a problem for you this week? 
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Everything.  I haven't putted well.  I think that comes back into your game a bit when you hole a few putts, everything is good.  I obviously didn't hole the putts.  I certainly  -- it's tough concentrating out on that golf course.  That's what's the real test about it is.  Every time you hit a shot, it's testing whether you think that is even the right shot to be playing at that time.  It's a tough course that way.

Q.  What happened on your second shot at 17? 
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   I had a bad lie.  As I say, I was pushing to get down a bit further so I could hit a higher club and hit it lower in there.  Realistically I should have hit 7-iron and I tried to hit 5-iron.  As I say, I was taking more of a chance with the second shot, hoping not to put myself too far back with a long club back in there to 17.  It wouldn't be much fun. 

Q.  What was the club you hit? 
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   I hit 8-iron. 

Q.  So what do you work on today?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Just my putting. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT