DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN HOSTED BY THE RORY FOUNDATION
May 19, 2016
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Pádraig, really nice conditions at the moment but wasn't the case for you this morning when you went out.  
PÁDRAIG HARRINGTON: It was tough.  It was cold, wet and windy, which is -- yeah, it's difficult.  The modern equipment, we take the spin off our drives, but you need spin in bad weather.  It was a bit squirrely early on, hard to get the ball in play.  With the rough being wet and the golf course playing long, I thought it was difficult today.  I certainly had my troubles on a couple of holes.   
Had a triple-bogey and a double-bogey.  If I turn those into bogeys, I would have had a very respectable round.  But stuck in there hard.  It would have been nice to make a birdie coming home rather than a bogey, and a couple over par probably would be somewhat optimistic going forward.  4-over is a little bit much.   
 Q.  In terms of tomorrow, if conditions are better, a chance perhaps?  
PÁDRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah, obviously the other half of the draw get better conditions this afternoon, it will be a long way back.  Obviously I'll go out and play my best tomorrow and do as well as I can.  But having not scored well in bad conditions, it's tough then to give up easier conditions to half the field.  Certainly put myself a long way back here.   
 Q.  Away from your own round, I don't know if you heard the news about Muirfield being taken off the Open rota because of the women members.  As a former Open Champion, what do you make of that news?  
PÁDRAIG HARRINGTON: I suppose it was coming.  We love playing the golf course.  It's a great golf course.  But there's more to modern golf than just the golf course.  We see that here in Ireland.  We've seen the R&A take women members and we've seen Augusta take in women members.  Gone are the days where you can discriminate in a club where other people want to join.   
At the end of the day, the R&A have a bigger responsibility, not just to the game of golf, but to society, and they have done the right thing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT