DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 3, 2002
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. If Carnoustie was nine out of ten difficulty in the 1999 Open, what was it today?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Course wise I would say it was a five. It was a lovely golf course to play. It is obviously the toughest golf course but they have set it up very nice. We are not falling off the back of the tee boxes as we were in our amateur days, the pin positions are generous. The golf course doesn't need that much defence actually. With the amateurs playing and it the weather does turn nasty, you do want the golf course set up reasonable, just the way it is. It is set up really nicely and for good golf.

Q. How do you cope with the sound of gunfire on your backswing (from the nearby army ranges)?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Well, it is consistent isn't it, you don't really notice it. It was like last week at the Ryder Cup when somebody cheers at another green, you do hear it but after that you just ignore it. The only time you get disturbed on the golf course is by foreign sounds, sounds you don't expect to hear there. You never get disturbed by people cheering and it is the same with the firing range, you know what it is so it doesn't disturb you.

Q. Bob Torrance says you are close to a major, do the events of last week make you believe that more yourself?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I had a very strange week last week and followed it up with the first nine holes today. I was swinging the club the poorest I'd swung it all year so if I am going to take any confidence from that it was the fact that I performed decently in poor form. What I can take out of last week and the front nine today was the fact that I played a little bit like I did when I first came out on Tour which is nice. If I can match up the short game I had when I first came out on Tour to the long game that Bob has built in my swing, that would cheer me up no end.

Q. How much practice have you had the chance to have to have?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Eight or nine holes for this tournament which is not like me. I am normally very disciplined but the reality was I couldn't do a full practice so nine holes did me. 

Q. Would I be right in thinking you are teetotal?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Yes you would be right in thinking that, but what is teetotal? You obviously didn't see that bottle of champagne by the 18th green then Ã‚ ­ I was thirsty!! I was, I was thirsty! I was dying for a drink. It was liquid, I didn't like the taste of it, but it was liquid at the time.

Q. How long was it since you had a drink before that?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Can't remember.

Q. Because you didn't after the Walker Cup either did you?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Well I am sure I drank the champagne out of the cup and it was the same sort of thing last week. I sprayed all the champagne out of the bottle and there was a little bit in the bottom of the bottle and I was thirsty so I drank it.

Q. So you only drink champagne then, that's classy!!??
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  No, no!

Q. When Lee was giving it a lash then, you weren't involved?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  You know I wouldn't want to be telling any stories out of school here.

Q. Lee's told them all already!?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  I wouldn't like to divulge anything. Somebody at home told me that one of the reporters reported it as McGinley said he was taking it easy so he could remember the night and Harrington of course, doesn't drink, so as reported at home, I'll leave it at that.

Q. Have you always been teetotal?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  I don't like the taste of drink and that is it. If you gave me a pint, if I was thirsty I could drink the first part of it and then I'd pour some 7 Up into it and then by the end it would be all 7 Up so what's the point. I drink Coca Cola and cocktails - gee you're digging at the right story here!

Q. Was this your first hangover in 30 years then?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  No I have drunk before. I have managed it three or four times in my life and yes there was a drink or two taken after the evening of the Ryder Cup. And it wasn't champagne.

Q. Can you remember what age you were when you discovered you didn't like the taste of alcohol?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  I'm not sure I can say this and not be politically correct, I'll try and figure out a way of saying this without upsetting anybody - I'm known as an 'Irish Queer' cos I prefer women to drink!!

Q. Did you make it to four o clock in the morning?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Half three. I have no idea about anybody else but it was three thirty I remember. Well I don't actually remember, so my wife tells me.

Q. You played well in this event last year so you obviously like links golf?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  If you asked me to pick a golf course, my favourite golf course, I'd probably pick a parkland one because I love the look of them but for a golf course that I am competitive on, I'm better on a links course because I was brought up on them, better in the wind, and I'm better in this sort of situation. I love playing St Andrews but I like the beauty of Augusta for example.

Q. So that would suggest if you were to win a major it would be the British Open?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  I have always said that the British Open would be my best chance.

Q. Still thinking of the Order of Merit?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  I'd have to win this week. I had to win at Mount Juliet or here to give myself any chance. It's a great situation because I don't have to worry about winning the Order of Merit, I have just to concentrate on winning a tournament, it is not in my mind to try winning the Order of Merit.

Q. You mentioned the cheering at Birmingham Airport, were you still getting that today?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Yes it was a warmer round of applause today. You always get a nice one but you could definitely see that playing with Paul (McGinley) today as well, I think it was nice that it was equally for both of us, not just for me because I was posting a good score.





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT