U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2002
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Disappointment at the moment, to double bogey the last, maybe when I look back at it I'll be disappointed how I played over the weekend, but really I'm not looking past 18 at the moment. 

Q.   Obviously at least from the first two rounds you can take some positives away from this week, and playing with Tiger on the third round?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Yeah, I will take positives away from it, but I don't really see them at the moment.  I'm sure when I'm home next week I'll think about it, and there will be some good things learned.  But as I said, I'm not in the mood to see them at the moment.

Q.   Does it, not to make your mood any worse, did you catch the World Cup match this morning?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Yes, obviously it was an unfortunate result at the end of the day, they really had a great chance there, but that's the way it goes.

Q.   Did Sergio give you some lip this morning about the result?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Well, yeah -- well, no, kind of sort of.  I won the bet.

Q.   Playing in every condition this week, and today the wind gets you after the rain got you after everything else.  What was the most frustrating today, and how did it affect you?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Playing in a major is very difficult today.  Obviously trying to get yourself after not playing in the wind, the ball was going 20, 30 yards further downwind, it may it very difficult on the front 9 to select the right club, which made making birdies hard.  You know you have to grind it out on a windy day like today.  So it's a pity, you just try and keep going, and try to make the odd birdie.  It's a difficult day.

Q.   Having seen Tiger play in the last round, and seeing how he's performed in this major, what do you think about the possibilities of a Grand Slam now that you've seen him in person?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  I have no idea how this tournament is going.  Is he ahead? 

Q.   Yeah. 
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  How many ahead is he? 

Q.   Enough. 
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Okay.  It's a possibility.  He obviously -- you could say he probably won this tournament with his B game.  So if he can win like that, he can obviously win the next two, as well.  He'll be motivated, anyway.

Q.   You mentioned the other day when you were paired with Tiger, how that can bring a player's game into shooting in the high 70's, did that have any affect on you Saturday?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  I was comfortable with playing with him on Saturday, I enjoyed the round.  It didn't really affect me.  The toughness of the golf course affected me, rather than Tiger. 





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT