VOLVO PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2001
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  So what was better? 
 
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Not much, to be honest.  Same old, same old.  I probably got the ball in the hole a bit better today.  That was it.  I got up-and-down a few times on the par 5's  -- got in a 4 on the last, that sort of thing.  I wasn't doing that yesterday, but I probably played a little better, too.  But nothing too exciting to report.  I haven't solved all  -- I haven't figured it out.  
 
Q.  Haven't figured out what?
 
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  Just, you know, it wasn't that much better.  When your concentration is poor, you tend to do things  -- like you can shoot 69 when your concentration is poor just as easily as shoot 75.  It's when your concentration is good that your 75's are 71's and your 69's stay 69's, if you know what I mean.  Yesterday, I said I didn't get any breaks.  Today, I didn't get any bad breaks.  So that's the difference, basically.  I hit a 3-wood 4-iron on the first.  I hit a driver, 4-iron into the bunker out to four feet and holed it. Beautiful 3-wood and wedge straight down the flag and pitched it short going back about ten yards.  Very awkward pitch and I left it about five feet short.  It was one of those 6's you wouldn't think you hit short of the hole and missed the putt.  Hit a driver, 4-iron  -- 4-iron seemed to be good today.  I should have kept hitting it.  I hit driver, 4-iron to about 20 feet and lipped out for eagle.  18, I hit 4-wood, 4-wood and second shot just nicked it a bit and came off about 25 yards short.  So, yeah, there was some up-and-downs.  I hit the first on nine  -- I can't say it was in the trees, it was further than that.  I played about a 60-yard shot to the edge of the green and nearly chipped in for birdie.  That's probably the difference.  I probably hit some more bad shots today than yesterday.  I hit a lot of mediocre shots yesterday.  I made no birdies to counteract the bogeys that I was making basically.  Very hard to get the ball close in there.  If you're not birdieing the par 5's  -- like 16, 3-iron, sand wedge, pin is out in the front.  7 is the same; it's 3-wood, wedge, but such a tight pin.  A lot of tough pins out there.  You try to get it to five or six feet  -- it's nearly easier on some of the longer holes where the pins are a bit more generous to get the ball close, like the first or the ninth.  The shorter holes, the pins are very tight, and with the firm greens it is tougher to get the ball close. 
 
Q.  Is it tougher today than yesterday?
 
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Yes.  
 
Q.  How's the injury? 
 
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   I'm fine.  Don't feel like I'm  -- I don't feel like I'm at full strength, but the injury is not getting to me.  
 
Q.  Was that a 4-wood off 18? 
 
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   4-wood, 4-wood.  Perfect.  I hit  -- I hit a 4-wood off 17, as well.  4-wood, 4-wood, 17.  And 4-wood, 4-wood to the last.  You know, you go with driver and you  -- 
 
Q.  Go too far?
 
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   You're not making huge gain on the last, if you're left with 3-iron or something like that, 4-iron.  Tough drive, but an easy 4-wood 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT