WGC AMERICAN EXPRESS CHAMPIONSHIP
November 10, 2000
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah. I think I certainly had him ahead going out. Something around
probably 70, 71 would be a good score today. I actually played a lot better today. I
played better today than I did yesterday. I just struggled a bit in the greens on the back
nine. I hit a few good putts that didn't go in, and I then started trying harder, trying
to be a bit more precise on the reads, and start missing a few more. 72 is not bad.

PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Well, certainly 17 was very disappointing. I hit a poor chip there,
to be honest. And I hit a poor approach, but I should have chipped it closer than I did.

Q. Second hit off the 17?

PADRAIG HARRINGTON: 7-iron. 

PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Nick's playing very well. So forgetting about the rest of the
field, I'm just thinking about myself. I'd like, obviously, to be a bit better on the
greens tomorrow, a bit more like I was the first day, and hopefully just play the same as
I played today. 

Q. How far was your drive off of the 17th tee?

PADRAIG HARRINGTON: We don't know, but I did hear the commentator, the on-course
commentator say it was 361 or something like that. I don't know if that was -- that's what
I thought he said, anyway. 

Q. How far did you hit the 7-iron?

PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I had 180 yards, I think, which is -- it was quite comfortable. I
was surprised, actually. I thought it was more downwind, second shot. I hit it about 6 or
7 yards right of the flag, and the wind was obviously more off the right because it moved
and pitched just on line with the flag, then ran off the left-hand side. So the second
shot wasn't as much downwind as I thought. I could have definitely done my approach more
into the middle of the green. 

Q. What's some positives you can take out of these two days into the weekend rounds?

PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Positives... Positives... Positives. You know what? I'm still
working on things. I'm going to go hit a few shots now. Obviously, today the long game was
solid today. I just need to get the putting going a bit like it was yesterday. I do know
how to do that. It's just a question of being able to do that. I mean, I'm in an
interesting position. 

Q. Can you make a comparison between your game yesterday and today. It was very
similar. 

PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I probably -- it depends how you judge how you play golf. From tee
to green today I was better. Yesterday I was better on the greens. Obviously, today's
conditions were a lot tougher. So yesterday, yes, I was better on the greens, around the
greens, scored better. Today, I certainly hit the ball better. 

Q. Padraig, do you think you should have done better, do you feel you left anything out
there?

PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Without a doubt, I left shots out there. I think once I got through
7, I was one-under, I was really feeling very comfortable. To be honest, I tried to get
cute on 8 to a tricky pin position. I was very happy with my game from there on in. Some
days you hole the putts, some days you don't. Yesterday I holed them; today I didn't. You
can't really -- it's a tough part of the game. I hit two or three horseshoes out there, a
few lipouts as well. Another day they all would have dropped, and I wouldn't be sitting
here saying I left a few out there. I did. There's 36 holes to go. It's a long way to go
yet. As I say, I'm just going to look after myself for the next two days and see how that
goes. 

Q. You seem to be playing very well. How far back is out of contention in your opinion?

PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I have no interest in who else is four or five, six, seven shots
back. I'm only interested in my game. I'm not even interested in Nick. If Nick plays
9-under for the weekend: Fair play to him. He's going to win the tournament. I can't
control what he's doing or what anybody else is doing. So it's irrelevant to me what is
even going to be the score this week. I'm just going to try to do the best score I can
this weekend and see what happens on Sunday evening, where that lies. 

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT