WGC AMERICAN EXPRESS CHAMPIONSHIP
November 9, 2000
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I'm happy. Obviously, the bogey at 18 slightly tainted it, but I'm
not going to let it really take away from what's a really nice score.

PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah. From the start, both of us started holing putts early on. I
think my caddie (Dave McNeilly) caddied for Nick (Price) a number of years early in the
'80s. They were telling stories and stuff like that. It was a good atmosphere all day, an
enjoyable day. Both of us were quite relaxed, and it showed in our scores.

PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah, I do like to talk on the golf course. I do like to try and
enjoy it. Sometimes that's not always possible. Today was one of those days that it just
was easy today. It doesn't always happen like that. Obviously, as I said, it was just
really because it was sort of just a nice game of golf.

Q. You said you didn't play very well last week, but still scored 7-under. How much
better did you play today?

PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Well, I think I've counted it up there last night. I spent 15 hours
hitting golf balls in the range in the last three days. My hands are sore. I'm tired from
doing that. Normally, that's not a very good day, very good preparation for a tournament.
Obviously, I didn't feel like I was hitting the ball very well last week. I felt it was
necessary to do that. Thankfully, it's paid off in many ways. I certainly hit the ball a
lot better than I was hitting it last week. 

PADRAIG HARRINGTON: They were bringing them in large buckets to me. People were sort of
bringing golf balls over, spare golf balls, and giving me extra balls. I was managing to
get it -- I was last to leave the range on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday. It's not good
preparation for a tournament, but it's obviously worked this week. 

PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Oh, yeah. Easy.

Q. Given that you played with Nick today, you'll be playing with him tomorrow. You hope
he'll have the same effect, will you?

PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Obviously, it's not confirmed whether I'm playing with him tomorrow
yet. I don't know how anybody else is doing on the course. Things like that don't always
work out. Expectations, you just don't know. Obviously, we just got into a nice roll
today, as I said. We were holing putts, it was like two-ball, lovely to play. We were
moving along nicely. It was a nice atmosphere in the game. We were chatting going up the
fairway. So it's just -- you can't predict that's going to happen again. But, yes, Nick is
a very easy guy to play with, very easy to play with. 

Q. Today was very relaxing, very nice game, you said. So maybe that's the reason both
of you decided to finish in the first and second position to play again tomorrow.

PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Well, yeah, that's what I'm suggesting. Because we started well and
because the atmosphere was good, we just played a game of golf like we were out, a
two-ball game on a Sunday in a club. We just moved along nicely. That's the way it felt to
me. We were in a nice little rush, moving on nicely. I suppose the fact that we both
started well, we weren't protecting, we weren't overpowering or struggling. We were both
going well early on. It helped things along.

Q. What is something you can say about playing with Nick Price? What is the best thing?

PADRAIG HARRINGTON: He's just very easy to play with. He says "Good shot"
when you have good shots. He plays very steady golf himself. It's nice to watch. He's one
of the gentlemen of the game of golf, so he's a very easy guy to play golf with. That's
just the way -- I'm sure anybody who gets drawn him has a nice partner for the day.

Q. Are there any stories Dave told you about the old days with Nick?

PADRAIG HARRINGTON: There were a few stories, but I'm sure I probably shouldn't share
them. No, I can't remember them offhand. There was a few stories I'm sure I've heard so
many times at this stage. When they're told with the person who's involved and things like
that, or, you know, Nick certainly would have known some of the characters in the story,
I'd say, it made it all the funnier. 

Q. What were you working with on the range on your golf swing?

PADRAIG HARRINGTON: To make it a little bit wider at the take-away, and a little bit
more -- how would you say -- not so much more upright, but keeping -- the problem with my
swing last week was I was getting inside on the way down. We were trying to keep it more
or less on the same track on the way up and the way down. So it was really just a bit more
whip, a bit more on the backswing as well and just to try to keep my hands out of it. 

Q. You had 15 putts for the first 13 holes. What was that indicative of?

PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I certainly -- I hit some of my shots close to make birdies and
missed some greens and chipped close to make some pars. I holed a good, long one on the
6th hole. But I think that was the only long putt of the day. So it was more good, sort of
bad, few good bunker shots, few good chips, a few good irons really reduced the putting. 

Q. I gather it was a big adventure over 7, 8, and 9?

PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah, it was. Especially on 8. I hit it in the trees, then I hit it
in the right-hand bunker. A very nice bunker shot that was -- we were surprised. Like it
did a chicane around the whole. It was funny looking from where I was. It looked like it
was going to fall in. It went left and kind of went around it like it was avoiding it. 9,
I just hit it in the left, just left of the fairway. It just kicked left off the fairway.
I'm blocked out. I putted a shot, and it just came up in the right-hand bunker of the 9th.
If you know the 9th, there's a tree there in the way of the bunker. I was hoping to get --
there's a light in the tree, and there's some wires from the light. I was hoping to be
able to move the wires because it would give me an inch more room. They were sticking out
from the tree. But it wasn't, so I played out. I played it; it would have been a foot
right in the hole. It wasn't -- I could play it a foot right in the hole. It was just
convincing myself I could do it. Obviously, it's difficult to play a bunker shot when you
can't actually see anything, because the tree was directly in front of me. I couldn't see
where I was trying to land it. You have to convince yourself that there was room to get
there. 

Q. Could you go back to the Nick Price element of your round. Do professionals take a
lot of note of who they're going to be playing with the following day? Does it bother you,
who you're playing with?

PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I don't think we take note of it, no. We don't look at the draw and
say, "Who are you playing with?" But when you're out there, sometimes you can
enjoy a round more than others, depending who you're playing with. 

Q. Some details on your round?

PADRAIG HARRINGTON: 1st hole, 3-wood, 9-iron to 5 feet; holed a putt. 4th hole, driver,
7-iron. Sand wedge to 6 feet; holed a putt. 7th hole, I hit 7-iron to the fringe of the
green, 35 feet away, and I holed it. 10, I hit 3-wood pitching wedge to 8 feet; holed the
putt. 11, I hit driver 4-wood; chipped up stone dead. 13, I hit 3-wood, I got stuck behind
the trees in the right. I hit a 5-iron, cut a 5-iron about 15 yards off course to about 3
feet and holed the putt. 17, I hit a good drive. I had 224 to that pin on 17, and this
week I've dropped a 3-iron and put a 2-iron in because of a couple of the -- long 15, par
3, and a couple of holes you can hit a 2-iron off the tee. So 225, I probably would have
went with 3-iron on the -- if I had it in the bag. But 4-iron was -- I could hit a high
4-iron and get the wind behind us. That's what I went with. It kind of convinced me.
Obviously, if I had the 3(-iron) and the 4, I probably would have been thinking, "Oh,
let's go for safety with the 3-iron." That was a bonus. On 18, I hit a 2-iron about 4
feet; missed the putt; (inaudible) it drifted right. I thought the wind was kind of into
me off the left. It was actually just off the left. It went through the fairway into the
trees. I chipped out. I pitched to about 10 feet and I missed the putt. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT