THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 16, 2015
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Talk about the difference between the morning and the afternoon and how you're feeling.  PADRAIG HARRINGTON: Yeah, obviously it was tough out there in the afternoon, especially you get the first couple of holes downwind, if you don't take your chances, it's a bit of a struggle after that.  My own personal round, I was happy to play.  I played the last seven holes in level par, which is actually a good recipe for a good round if you were told that was going to be the case.  You know, just made a few mistakes going out or didn't quite get the breaks going out, so maybe left three or four shots on the course for the first 11 holes, but certainly the last seven holes I made up for it with a couple of good saves.  As much as I'd like to be shooting -- 2- or 3-under par would have been an excellent day out there this afternoon.  Shooting over par, it's tough when you see 7-under leading and lots of 6-unders, 5-unders, but that was the nature of the golf course.   Q.  When you saw the scoring in the morning, that it was a birdie-fest for quite a while this morning, did you feel you had missed the best break with the weather?  PADRAIG HARRINGTON: We don't know that until tomorrow.  That's the reality.  Obviously there's a poorer forecast for tomorrow.  Not quite sure when it's all coming in or how it's going to materialize, but I don't think we can figure out -- clearly the morning got the better break today, but after 36 holes we don't know what the story is going to be.  The best thing was not to get frustrated today and wait to see if it might turn around tomorrow.  I'm at 7:38 in the morning and hoping for beautiful sunshine until about 12:00, 12:30, and we wait and see.   Q.  Do you feel it's in your game if you do get a good break tomorrow with the weather that you can get into some sort of position here to obviously get those juices going again?  PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I really don't know how far back I am.  As I said, if you shot 3-under this afternoon, it would have been a nice return.  I don't know how much damage level par has done until tomorrow.  As I said, I'm happy enough with my game and things like that.  I can only look at a few of the easier holes -- I got a bad break on 11 to make bogey.  Bogeying 3 wasn't great.  A few birdies, but I can't go back in the round and think I should have done a lot different.  It wasn't that easy, but -- or that hard, either, at times.  Just wait to see how it goes tomorrow.  Clearly if all those guys at 6s and 5s, 7s, if they move forward tomorrow to get a decent day, it will be hard to catch up, yes.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I played nice -- holed a few nice putts coming in.  It was tough those last couple of holes, and I had a great run on the greens short-putt-wise for my last -- well, I holed a good one on 9, as well.  All the way home, really.  It was a really good day on the greens.   Q.  For tomorrow will you need to have a lot of those?  PADRAIG HARRINGTON: I'm hoping for perfect conditions in the morning.  I know I'm going to get lucky.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT