ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 3, 2014
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What do you like most about your play so far?  
    PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   I'm putting well.   You know, I had a number of 3‑putts today, but they hadn't caught the greens and it got in my head a little bit.   I really feel‑‑ I'm looking forward to every putt on the golf course, which is a great place to be.   Playing nicely outside of that.   You know, not really too much different.   Mentally probably‑‑ my mental game seems to be quite strong as well.   That was two things, putting and mental side are pretty good at the moment.  
   
 Q.   How big is the feel‑good factor to come back to a tournament that you've won twice before?  
    PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Yeah, no doubt about it.   That's important, more so playing with a great partner of yours, JP.   We get on great.   We work hard at the team score, and it seems to bring me along in the individual.   And that really seems to be the key.   If you're focused on doing the right stuff for the team, then all of a sudden you're doing well in the individual.  
    I think as well, obviously links golf, it's quite an advantage.   I'm out there in a T‑shirt and a sweater today, and no problems at all.   Not feeling in any shape or form.   So yeah, I like playing links golf.  
   
 Q.   You don't often let us in on your goals, but yesterday you let it slip that you really want to get in the Olympics.   Tell me about that.   
    PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Yeah, obviously, I've gotta set some goals, and I think the big one for me, I've gotta get inside the top 15 in the world to make the Olympics in 2016.   And that's the big goal.   I've got 22 months to go.   I'm starting at absolute zero probably at the moment.   Certainly I don't think any points‑‑ I don't think I'll have any points that count now that would be counting in two years' time.   So I have to earn enough points in that time to make it true.  
    I really feel good about my game, so I believe I can do it.  
   
 Q.   I wish you luck with that.   Padraig, your verdict on today's round, please.   
    PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   It was very average.   I really had a chance of stealing a march today.   I had three 3‑putts that were kind of innocuous, missed a few opportunities.   Today was a day‑‑ if things went right for me, I could have shot another 66, 65 today and that would have given me a nice little bit of a lead going into the weekend.  
   
 Q.   But the good thing is that there's no one who's really very much?  
    PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Running away with it.   That's the problem.   It's not me who's run away with it.   I played well enough to be in that position, but you know, there's many ways to win a tournament.   It would be nice, as I said, to shoot a good score when you're already up pretty close to the lead.   If you can keep going forward, you can get a lot of the work done, but unfortunately I haven't done that.   So looks like if I want to win this one, it's going to be a long weekend.  
   
 Q.   But you know how to win this tournament.   Is there any situation in which you try to recall memories from the days when you won the tournament?  
    PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Not really.   I'm in a good frame of mind.   You know, to be honest, what you've done in the past doesn't make really much difference to the future.   You know, you kind of be working on things in the present.   What I'm thinking about now I'm pretty comfortable about.   I think my head is really in a good place.   I'm quite excited about my mental game at the moment, and that's what's been letting me down.   
    I don't expect it all to go right for me on the weekend, but I'm certainly looking forward to it.  
   
 Q.   Is there anything that you personally learned from last week's experience at the Ryder Cup?   All of the guys who played that and all of the guys who were involved said that there was something special that they were taking away from last week.   
    PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   I learned a lot, but nothing to do with my own game.   I learned a lot to do with other Peoples game and you know, the management side of the teams.   No, not really to do with my own game.   I'm busy enough with that myself.   
    But yeah, it was a great week, and there was a lot to be learned, but as I said, I didn't come away from it, you know, feeling any different about my own game at all.  
   
 Q.   Tell me a bit about your goals.   There's the Olympics on the horizon?  
    PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Don't tell anybody about my goals.   Why did I say that yesterday?   (Laughs).   I just said a good goal for me, somebody brought up the world rankings, and I said, you know, a good goal for me is to try and get back in the top 15 in two years' time.   That's the cut‑off time for the Olympics and that's something that I would be aware of and it's something to push for.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT