FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 5, 2014
Padraig Harrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   I hit it close the first couple of holes.   I made some putts really from nowhere.   I'm two over-par through 6 holes and I'm really not feeling good and I hole a nice putt on 17, my 8th hole and I played well. 
    I birdied the 1st, 2nd, 3rd.   Chipped in on the 1st.   To be honest, I probably played the back-9, my first 9, had a lot of chances. 
    On the front-9 after I made a couple birdies I didn't quite play as well.   I struggled maybe the last four holes.   I made good up and down on 6, 8 and 9.   So pleased with that. 
    It's always important to make those up and downs and keep the score good.

Q.   It felt like when we arrived today that there was some early scoring available.   Now, all of a sudden, we're seeing everybody is kind of bunched back together. 
    How did the golf course at all change or evolve during the course of round?
    PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Obviously there was a bit of wind even early on and it -- the problem with this golf course, you hear it in the trees and you think it's stronger as it is.   It's actually never stronger on the course. 
    Once you get comfortable with your yardages -- and the greens are firm.   I think that's showing up in the scoring.   It's not that easy at times to get the ball close from the fairway on some of the holes, especially with it downwind. 
    There is placing, so certain placing saved me a couple shots.   I had a couple difficult shots.   I got some spin on it.   I think the greens are firm and fast and that's maybe taking it back a little bit, too.

Q.   Round today, pleased with where you are?   Were there shots out there you would like back?
    PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Always shots you like back.   To be honest, I played really well early on and didn't score very well.   I had a couple of terrible holes and some misses, lot of misses early on and got a nice run at turn. 
    I probably played as well coming home.   My last 6 holes I had to get up and down a few times.   Strange 9, strange two 9s.   I played better on the front-9, scored worse, and played on my second 9, and scored nicely.

Q.   In terms of the way the course, little wind out there --
    PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   The wind isn't too bad.   It sounds stronger than it is.   The wind is through the trees here and you always think it's there but it's not bad especially in this warm, the ball going through it. 
    The greens are firm enough and so there's a few shots that the ball is releasing a little bit.   That's probably the biggest difficulty out there, they put it in places just in case there was a storm coming in and that's really made it a lot easier if you miss the greens, you've got a great chance of getting up and down when you can practically tee it up.

Q.   With the storm coming in, aren't you glad you got in your round?
    PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   The course might play easier after the rain.   You can take nothing for granted in golf.   You never know.   May seem like it's a good idea there's a storm coming in and make it tougher for the guys but if it's a thunderstorm and they're called in, they might go out and might be soft greens.   All I know, keep yourself playing nicely for Sunday afternoon, you'll have a chance of winning.

Q.   Is it just a matter of, you know, would you take 2-under par every day?
    PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Yeah.   I'd take four 68s and sit in the clubhouse.   I'd take four 68s and enjoy my week.

Q.   Talk about the beginning there, I guess on 1, the --
    PADRAIG HARRINGTON:   Obviously that was my second 9 and all the way through to my front-9 until the 17th hole.   I hit it close and didn't hole the putts.   I chipped in on 1.   I didn't even hit a good chip put it went in and it's amazing the difference momentum in a round of golf. 
    When things aren't going good you can never see things turning around.   When you get a chip-in like that, everything is easy afterwards.   Huge amounts of golf, that optimism that things are going to go well for you, chipping in and holing putts. 
    That's when you start getting on the roll.   You hit better shots because of it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT