SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 10, 2020
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. (In progress)...all those birdies in a row.
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, you know, I think I got started on 9, chip-in for eagle on 9 and that kind of got me going.  And then just drove ball really well.  If you drive the ball well here can you got a lot of opportunities.  Birdied 12 with a wedge in my hand; 13, up and down from the front of the green there.  14 hit a good 9-iron in there about ten feet and made it.  15 hit a driver on the green again, eagle putt, two-putt.  16 hit right in the middle of the fairway.  So do you that here, you got a lot of birdie opportunities.
 Q. You could kind of see this round building.  You've had results.  Last week you were in contention, so you had to come here with some confidence?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, I'm playing really well.  Made some changes in the what little off-season we had after the end of the year for me.  Started working with Bradley Hughes.  He's kind of helping me understand my swing a little bit better and feel like I can -- I'm driving it way better, more consistent week to week, and feel like I can build off this.
 See how it holds up tomorrow.
 Q. Do you think you'll have the lowest round of the day or do you think that the course is set up for scoring?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:   It's set up for scoring.  As long on the wind doesn't blow.  If the wind blows it will be tougher these guys in the afternoon obviously.  The course is there for the taking, just like it has been the last two days.  I'll probably be three or four back going into tomorrow, but at least I gave myself a shot after where I started.
 Q. What is your mindset when you start out the day on this birdie festival here seven shots back?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I mean, pedal to metal.  There is no -- I his it close on 1 and missed it and felt like I was behind the eight ball already playing one hole not making a birdie.  You feel like if I'm not make birdies here I'm losing ground.  To be even par I think through six holes today, I was like, I got to do something.  This is not going to work.  I'm going to be teeing off early again tomorrow.
 Luckily made some putts, and chip-in on 9 got me going.
 Q. What does this do to further build your confidence with all the changes?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, it does.  Really excited the team I got around me.  Hicksy on the bag who has been out here forever.  Kind of calming influence for me a little bit, and Bradley has really given my a lot of confidence in my swing and how I swing it and knowing what I need to do to miss it in certain spots and to let it go.
 So feel really good about it.  We'll see how it goes tomorrow.  Didn't hold up great last Sunday the last nine, but I kind of know what I did and look forward to try to fix it tomorrow.
 Q. What are you thinking -- are you going to be watching scoreboard?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:   No.  I'll be down by probably 4:00, 5:00.  I'll go watch some football, get some rest, and be ready to go tomorrow.
 Q. You went out first off today, went out and did what you got to do playing this golf.  Just talk about your round and how you feel like uke you played.
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, you know, this golf course, obviously if you're not making birdies you're probably getting left behind.  Being first up on Saturday gives you an opportunity.  Greens were perfect.  No wind to speak of.
 Went out there with an aggressive mindset.  Drove it great so gave myself lots of opportunities today.  Was able to take advantage of a few and get myself where I need to be to at least have some kind of squeak tomorrow, shoot another round just like I shot today, but at least have a chance.
 So excited about that.  Feel like I played better the first two days than I did today.  Today was one of those days where everything went in and felt good about it.  If I can go back to the way I hit it the first two days, I think I'll have a really good chance tomorrow.
 Q. Obviously you were in contention last week and made a lot of changes in your team.  What kind of confidence does this round give you after last week and kind of going forward?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, I've got a lot confidence.  I had a lot of confidence last week.  Even after I got done playing I knew what that what I was doing was on the right path and felt like I was striking the ball way better and more consistently.  Again this week driven it great and given myself lots of opportunities, so excited about tomorrow and seeing if I can improve on what I did last week.
 Kind of lost it the back nine last week golf swing-wise, but I know what I did, so I'm excited about fixing it this week.
 Q. What has Bradley done to help your swing?  Is there one key that he's kind of helped me with?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, he's given me confidence to let me release the club again.  I'm obviously a very handsy player, a very feel player, but he's given me a couple key things to let me know that if it I do one of these things well I can release it as far as I want to.
 And that's comforting, especially under pressure and when you have tough shots, to know you release it and you can kind of get a one-way miss going, which I'm excited about.
 It worked today and it's worked since last month.  It just about consistently doing it under pressure and trusting that it's going to be there and not trying to bail out of shots.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT