WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 28, 2019
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How close did that match feel on the golf course today?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Down to a couple of putts here and there, really.  I played really well.  He played pretty solid.  We both gave each other a hole, hitting one in the water off the tee.  Neither one of us seemed to make any putts.  We had a bunch of 15 to 20-footers, which was about as close as we were going to hit it today just because of the wind and how tough it was.  Just couldn't seem to make them.  It felt like it was a slow match in that sense.  Nobody was really getting any momentum going and getting a lot of stuff going.   
But I think probably the pivotal hole was 13, when he hit it in the water off the tee and kind of gave me that hole, to have me go 2-up.  Had a little more of a cushion.  I know he birdied the next hole, but that was one you were not expecting him to do.  I was able to hit some clutch shots down the stretch and get it down.   
 Q.  What's going through your mind when he's kind of kneeling down, turning the club over, practicing?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Waiting to be 2-up on 10 tee.  I thought it was over.  I thought he was wasting his time over there.  It's just the kind of stuff he pulls.  I don't know what he did.  I don't know how he got that up-and-down.  Nobody else would probably even try to hit it.  And somehow he hits it out to five feet and probably should have been me away, I was probably first to putt on that second putt.  I told him on the next tee, I'm might have rethink how I do match play, because I played that second shot according to you being in the junk.  And I actually had a harder par it turned out than he did.   
 Q.  Were you aware of that kind of weird stat in all the times you've played with him on Tour, you've never shot a better score than him?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I was not aware of that, no.  I know he's beat me a lot, I know that.   
 Q.  Does that surprise you, just a random round somewhere?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I mean, it's Tiger.  I don't get paired with him a lot on Thursday or Friday.  So if I'm playing with him it's probably late on the weekend.  If he's playing good, that's typically where he is.  He's just really good at what he does.  I don't know what to say.   
 Q.  Could talk about your mindset on 17.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, just trying to hit a quality shot there.  Kind of tugged it a little bit but just making sure I don't give him anything.  Make sure he has to birdie the last two, if he has any chance of squaring the match and hit a mediocre wedge shot, but hit a good putt to get par and put pressure on him.   
 Q.  This was a big hurdle today, I would think, but it's really no different for tomorrow.  Does it feel that way?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, I mean, I knew I was playing good, so I was excited about the opportunity.  I turned into Tiger's biggest fan tomorrow going forward, because I need him to go out there and beat Patrick tomorrow.   
 Q.  But you are Tiger's biggest fan?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I probably am.  I said I'm probably the most hated man in Texas right now like that for a few holes.  I bet you my kids were probably rooting for him late in the round.   
 Q.  Talk about your approach on 13 after he hit the drive in the water.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: You know, I was in a divot.  Was unfortunate.  Hit a great tee shot there and in a divot and just trying to survive at that point, and make a par or bogey.  And give me the gift that he gave me hitting it in the water off the tee.   
 Q.  Does it go back to what I said, you need kind of a reset button?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, exactly, in the grand scheme of things it doesn't really mean that much.  I've got to go out and win tomorrow.  As great as today was and as much fun as I've had, I've got to kind of reset my goals for tomorrow and make sure I'm doing the same thing I did this morning, which is tough to do.  You want to look ahead and say, hey, I beat Tiger.  I'm not anywhere yet.  I've got to go play great tomorrow and use this momentum today from a lot of good stuff late in the round and kind of take that out tomorrow.   
 Q.  When he gave you the putt on 13 was he standing there or did --  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: He was standing there, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT