BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 13, 2013
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   This day had to require some patience with the way the wind was blowing.   I know you put the extra work in yesterday for the ball‑striking.   That had to have paid off for you, at least early. 
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, besides two loose drives, I thought I hit the ball pretty well.   It was a tough day.   How Jim is doing what he's doing out there, I have no idea.   All in all, it was a good day to‑‑ whenever you have a really low round like yesterday it's tough to follow it up.   To go out there and shoot a good round like I did today is a really good thing, and gives me a lot of momentum going into the weekend.

Q.   It's kind of separation because the field has really struggled to have that little bit of a cushion.   Looks like it's going to be you and Jim tomorrow on the weekend. 
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, I think the biggest thing is here if you drive the ball in the fairway and you roll in the putts, you can make a lot of birdies here.   I think Jim proved that today.   I'm sure he drove the ball fantastic and made a lot of putts.   There's low scores out there, but with the wind blowing like it was today, it was really tough to pull the club and get the balls close.   We are where we are.   We've got a little separation, which is nice, but that being said, there's still more low rounds out there, so we've got to keep going.

Q.   Grueling physical day out there with the breeze.   How are you feeling after 36?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, I feel great.   If I could just get the ball‑striking exactly where I want it, we're really close to hitting it flush every time, just a few loose ones here and there, so if I can tighten that up and short game stays where it is, it should be a lot of fun this weekend. 

Q.   I know you guys are in your own bubble, but how aware were you of what Jim was doing out there?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I had no clue.   I thought Jim shot‑‑ I saw Jim was right there next to me, and I thought, I thought Jim shot 4‑ or 5‑under yesterday, so I didn't think anything of it.   And then on 18 I saw a Jumbotron that he needed a birdie on the last hole to shoot 59, and I thought, what the heck, are you serious?   There's no way.   Not only is it not‑‑ it's a par‑71, so that's even more impressive.   And on a die like this when the wind is blowing 20 miles an hour out of the north, I don't think anybody out here saw that score coming. 

Q.   How many 59s have you shot in your career? 
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Zero, especially on at a PGA TOUR event. 

Q.   That's what Luke Donald said; he's played this course a couple hundred times, and he thought maybe with conditions like Wednesday, maybe.   But with the blustery‑‑
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, I heard Harris English shot 60 in the pro‑am and there's some low scores if you smoke it.   But not today.   The greens were really firm, they were really fast and crusty.   The winds were‑‑ even though they were blowing, they were real inconsistent on direction.   That's just an unbelievable round of golf. 

Q.   I think it was No.4 was a bogey, and it's playing the toughest of all the‑‑ can you talk about that hole? 
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, yeah, that hole was playing tough.   It was into the wind.   We were playing the back tee.   It's into and off the left, which everybody hates, every right‑handed golfer hates.   And so it's a 480‑yard par‑4 playing like a 510‑yard par‑4.   I smoked a drive and smoked a 4‑iron in there this morning as well as I could.   It's just a plain tough hole.   There's nowhere you can really miss it on either shot.

Q.   So a 59 with a bogey. 
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   That makes me feel depressed about my round.   I was actually feeling pretty good about it walking up here. 

Q.   Can you ever remember being in the lead or co‑lead and being the forgotten guy?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I love it.   I mean, I guess my job now is to make sure that everybody forgets about it by Sunday.   That's great that he went and did that.   I think Jim has been a consummate professional forever.   This has got to be the round of his career just about, today, in the Playoffs, it's pretty special.   It will be fun playing with him tomorrow.

Q.   You thought this course might play a lot different today because of the weather.   Did it?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   It did play different, yeah, very different. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT