BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 12, 2013
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I had a good feeling with the putt on 1.   I knew I was going to make it because it just kind of had a good look to it, an easy putt for me, a right to lefter.   2, I hit a real good iron shot and the wind didn't take it, I got caught on wood, and I actually hit a good putt there and just left it short.   
    You get on runs like that, you get excited for the next hole because you know something good is going to happen because you're in such a good frame of mind and everything is going in the right direction.  
   
 Q.   There are guys that have been out here very successful that would be more of a plodder that in their careers they've never shot 61, 62, 63.   They're very consistent, probably played more conservative.   But you, Hunter Mahan, you come to mind where if you make three or four in a row‑‑ what do you think if there's any distinguishing factor?   
    BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, I try and put the pedal down.   When I get going good, I realize it doesn't happen all the time, so I instantly become more aggressive.   I think being a good putter helps, too, because I don't really have to hit it three feet eight times in a row.   Just got to hit the green sometimes and it's going to happen.   I think that helps a lot, too.   
    I realize these runs are few and far between, so when I get on one, I try to run as hard as I can for as long as I can.   
   
 Q.   When you're on a run like that, do you change your routine at all?   Do you try to play faster?  
    BRANDT SNEDEKER:   No, just trying to give myself more opportunities.   
   
 Q.   Did the 7 go longer than you thought it would?  
    BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, it did.   Two putts from off the green.   It didn't stick a lot.   I made some 15‑, 20‑footers, so it was a little longer, and it didn't start off great today.   I missed the fairway on 10, got the up‑and‑down, and missed the green on 11, so I didn't get off to a great start.   Missed an easy putt on 12, and then kind of got going after that.   
   
 Q.   Did you putt on 13?  
    BRANDT SNEDEKER:   On 13 I putted from the fringe.   14 I chipped it‑‑ bladed a wedge through the fringe.   17 I putted from the fringe.  
   
 Q.   17 it was about a 40‑footer, that was the big one?  
    BRANDT SNEDEKER:   17 was‑‑ I felt kind of bad.   Strick hit a beautiful shot in there, and his is on the front of the green, takes a huge bounce and goes over the green.   I pull mine left and it takes a big kick right.   I'm in the fringe and he's in the rough completely hosed.   I make mine and he makes bogey.   
   
 Q.   How do you explain missing an easy putt and then going on a roll like that?   
    BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I've got no clue.   It's funny, I warmed up, I didn't feel great with the putter, and was just trying to get the balls‑‑ work on one little minor thing in my stroke to make sure I could hit the ball solid every time.   On 13, the first one went in, and it felt like the floodgates coming open.   I felt like I was doing the right stuff and could see my lines really easily, and after that it was just getting on the green and making them.   
   
 Q.   This is what you've wanted to do all year, right?  
    BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yes, yes, exactly.   Putting has finally got where I want it to.   Now I've got the ball‑striking back to where it was at the beginning of the year.   It's always a constant struggle.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT