WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2013
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  BRANDT SNEDEKER: I'm excited to be here.   I've heard a lot of good things with the golf course already.   The greens are fantastic and really fast and it's obviously a great place for me, my first win being here and going back to Wyndham.   It's always a special week for me.   I'm glad to get here and get underway and play some good golf.  
   
 Q.   Everybody says that you're the favorite this week.   Just talk a little bit about that.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   It means a whole lot of nothing.   Great that people might think that.   Come Thursday morning there's 155 guys I have to worry about beating.   They're all doing the same thing about me.   It doesn't really mean a whole lot.   You have to get in practice in the golf course and see how the course is playing.   My game is really good coming off last couple of weeks.  
   
 Q.   In terms of points, certainly somebody who doesn't have to play, you're not 129th, 130th, in that range.   What keeps bringing you back?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Every point means something.   So, that's a big key.   I can jump a couple guys if I play well and move up in the FedExCup.   
This place has been great to me.   People from North Carolina supported me my whole career.   Phenomenal place.   Great sponsor like Wyndham.   All the local stuff it does for charity.   I played North Carolina my whole life between playing Junior Golf and college golf.  
   
 Q.   Anywhere you'd like to go in and around Greensboro, anyplace you'd visit?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I'm pretty much a local boy.   I go between the hotel and golf course and keep pretty simple.   Few restaurants I've gotten to know pretty well.   It's always a fun week to be here especially if the weather, the way it's supposed to look this week, not too hot or humid.   Going to be pretty nice.  
   
 Q.   You played a lot in a row, I'm sure.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Couple days off.   I went home.   Got in this morning.   Went home for two days.   Got some rest and feel rejuvenated.   I've done this before.   I did it last year.   I feel a lot more rested at this point than last year.   Feel really good about it.   My game is a lot better now than it was at this point last year.   
   
 Q.   Back when you first played, the field wasn't as strong as it is now.   You see the names on that list.   What are some of the things as you see the tournament grow?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   First of all, the date is a very important date for the PGA TOUR and for the tournament, going to draw some big names for the year because the guys do want to move up the list and try to make a move this week.  
The golf course is getting better every year.   New greens, phenomenal.   Golf course is a favorite among the players.   Lot of fun to play.   You play good, you can shoot a low number.   If not, it's going to test you.   It's a great thing with a great sponsor.  
   
 Q.   Before you won here a few years ago were you aware of the history of this event?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   With Sam Snead winning here eight times and you see pictures in the country club on the wall and Arnold Palmer who played here.   It's got a great history and it's been a huge part of the PGA TOUR for so many years.   I'm glad it's got a great home and a great sponsor now.  
   
 Q.   How much does a practice day and, particularly, a Pro-Am today, how much does that sort of simulate what things will be like Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday?   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   It's a big advantage for us playing a Pro-Am because you get to see how the course is playing before you see it tomorrow and the greens are really, really fast.   Going to take some time to get used to them.   
You get a feel for how the ball is running in the fairways, how the rough is reacting, everything.   It changes from day to day.   Playing on Wednesday is always, I've felt, a huge advantage.   Go out there this afternoon and have some fun with some guys that I know pretty well and get ready for tomorrow morning.  
   
 Q.   18-under has won this thing the last two years.   Do you anticipate that will be tough to do?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah.   I don't think it's going to happen from what I've heard.   More 12 to 15 number just because the greens are so much faster, from what I've heard.  
   
 Q.   The weather issues last year, whatnot, with the delay.   It looks like it's going to be pretty good so far these first couple days.   How does that affect you guys as far as weather?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Something you got pay attention to.   The weather is always an issue on the TOUR.   This time of year in the South they're going to get thunderstorms in the South.   It's been unfortunate in the past.   I think this year looks okay.   
Been kind of a weird summer for this.   Hopefully dodge it and keep the course firm and fast and make it play tough and the play the way we all want it to play.  
   
 Q.   I know it's a ways out the Open at Pinehurst next year, how often have you played No. 2 and are you planning on going down there at all?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I played it quite a little bit in my amateur career.   Played the North, South.   Number 2 is one of my favorite golf courses anywhere.   
I'll make a couple trips up there at the beginning of next year.   I've talked to Ben Crenshaw a bunch about it, what he did to the golf course and how he changed it and he's glowing about the golf course and saying they really didn't do anything, just back the way it used to be.   
I'm look forward to seeing it.   They say the golf course is phenomenal.  
   
 Q.   You haven't played it yet?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   No.  
   
 Q.   What makes it your favorite?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   So much strategy involved in the golf course.   It's right in front of you.   No tricks at all.   The green complexes are some of the best anywhere in the world because there's no water hazards in play on the whole golf course.   
It's one of the toughest golf courses you'll ever play.   I love that aspect of it where you really got to think about your ball flight.   Your short game is going to be tested.   It's a really, really fair test.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT