THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 16, 2019
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What caused that outburst?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: It was there the first two days, I just made some poor swings, some uncommitted swings the first couple days and made some big numbers.  And I just told myself, my focus today was to go out there and keep a clean scorecard as well as possible, try to limit the bogeys.  And I knew the good stuff was there, just making a few loose swings at the wrong time kind of killed me the first two days.  I did a great job, drove the ball unbelievable, hit a bunch of great iron shots, hit 16 greens out here, especially for somebody like me it's a pretty good feat.  So obviously hitting it pretty well, hitting it where I'm looking, so tomorrow should be a lot of fun.
Q. Are you surprised at all that it flipped this quick since you and TA have come together?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Not really.  TA told me when we first met, he said, listen, it's not going to be as hard as you think it is to kind of get you back to where you feel like you can play good golf again.  It's a different mindset of trying to use my body to swing the golf club instead of using my hands to swing the golf club.  So TA knows me so well, kind of knows my swing, and knows me personally, kind of how I process information, we clicked right away.  It's pretty easy to get back to where we felt like, okay, I can play golf from here and I know what a bad shot feels like and what a good shot feels like and so I can try to eliminate half the golf course, which is all I've been trying to do.
Q. How many sessions in do you feel like it started to click?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Every session I left I felt better.  And then it would be great here, I would get home, kind of go back.  And then be great here, get home and kind of go back.  And I felt a lot of really good stuff last week at Bay Hill, even though the scores didn't see it, just really felt like I hit some quality golf shots and drove it really well and just didn't have one quite -- the loose ones were still in there -- and once I got that under control last couple days -- man, I played great in the practice rounds this week and just knew it was coming, it was just a matter of me kind of getting out of my own way and get back to playing golf again.
Q. How much different was the course today than the last couple days?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I was surprised it was so soft.  I thought it was going to be a lot firmer this morning.  But the greens had some speed to them, but they're not, I don't think they're going to get any faster just because we don't have any sunlight, nothing to dry them out.  So the pins were relatively accessible.  The hard holes, are kind of 5, 6, 7, today with blowing back into the wind, 8 -- 5, 6, 7, 8, kind of right in there.  So if you can get by those holes there's some birdie opportunities coming after that.  So the key today is putting the ball in the fairway.  It's hard, different wind, you have to adjust your lines off tees and we hadn't seen it this way all week -- so it was a little colder too, ball's not quite going as far.  So put the ball in the fairway you can be successful, but it's a little tougher today to do that.
Q. Did you see what Tiger did yesterday on 17?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I saw it last night.
Q. Did you see what, in retrospect, he could have --
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, I would have done the same thing he did.  I didn't know.  I would have done the exact same thing.
Q. Can you think of any scenario --
BRANDT SNEDEKER: No, it's such a weird one, because it's only driven on pin position, right.  There's only two, so I mean it's one of those things you would never really think about going up there and checking because when you have yellow lines like that around a par-3, typically you're reteeing or going to the drop zone, you're never really going up by the hole.  So, yeah, I learned something -- glad it wasn't me -- but I learned something today about it, but I would have never thought about going up there and doing that.
Q. You would just kind of march to the drop zone?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, just go to the drop zone, yeah.  Like I've done probably a hundred times there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT