THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2013
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BRANDT SNEDEKER:  I don't know what we're supposed to do
to hit a green.  I saw it this morning, the guys this morning were
struggling with keeping it on the green.  Justin hit a beautiful
bunker shot and spun it and barely stayed on the green.  That one
got out of control, out of hand.  That's gonna happen.  There's no
way to control it during the course of the day.
Q.  Did you feel anywhere you (inaudible)  --
BRANDT SNEDEKER:  On the green?  No, no.  I don't think
so.  I don't think so.  I don't think if anybody -- Justin hit a
beautiful wedge bunker shot on the front of the green.  Landed it
short of the green and spun it.  And it barely hung on before it
went in the bunker.  I don't know how you're supposed to do it.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
BRANDT SNEDEKER:  You can probably look at it at the end
of the day and see how many guys hit the green.  I'm sure it's
very few.  And we've got sand wedges in the green.  I don't know
if that's fair or not.  We all had to play the same golf course.
They need to put some water on it.  Everything is dead.
You've got fairways that are running 15 in some spots.  You can't
stand up, you can slip.  It's just really, really firm.
Q.  Does it come down to more luck in some cases?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:  No, everybody has got -- I don't know,
that's a good question.  I think all British Opens in some sense
come down to the bounces, so this is no different.
Q.  Are the conditions a humbling factor involved?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:  No, it's part of it.  You're going to
have to deal with that in a Major.  If you're going to play in a
Major, you have to deal with this.  Guys did a great job.  Some
guys shot under-par scores or around par.  I think anything around
par was a good score.  You can't complain about it.  Guys survived
it, so it's not like it's unplayable.
Q.  For conditions like this, Saturday and Sunday, is it
possible to make a good round?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:  Yeah, I think there's a good
possibility somebody can shoot even par, and the course gets a
little bit out of control and the wind starts blowing, they might
get  a good number.  I think there's a huge possibility for that
to happen.
Q.  How much of a grind factor is it?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:  Beyond anything I've ever played in.
Q.  In terms of what though?  Specifically more than
anything?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:  Just because it's very, very hard to
hit a ball where you're supposed to and very, very hard to keep
the ball where you're supposed to.  I was always constantly
frustrated because you think you're pulling off the right shot and
you're not getting rewarded.
Q.  Is this the most demanding Open you've played?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:  Demanding, mentally-wise, for sure.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
BRANDT SNEDEKER:  Not one tonight.  It didn't work last
night, so I'm going to try something different tonight.


 
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT