THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 16, 2013
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  MIKE WOODCOCK:  Brandt, thanks very much for joining us.
  Tied third last year in The Open after a great performance.  And
  you're currently No. 8 in the world.  You must be looking forward
  to this week, links golf again at Muirfield.BRANDT SNEDEKER:  It's always a special week, especially
  here at Muirfield.  The golf course is fantastic.  It's unlike any
  British I've played in before, where the ball is bouncing
  everywhere, it's really firm and fast.  The course is in fantastic
  shape.  The greens are some of the best I've seen.  Last year they
  were fantastic, but these are just as good.
  So it's The Open Championship, it's going to be a lot of
  fun.
Q.  We were just talking, you seem to have taken to links
    golf.  What is it about the style of play that seems to suit your
    game?
  BRANDT SNEDEKER:  It's just, I loved growing up watching
  The Open on TV.  I liked how different it was from what I was used
  to seeing.  Playing in a few of them now, I appreciate it.  I have
  a lot more appreciation now than I did the first time I played.  I
  realize the nuances, the different shots you need to hit and how
  uncookie-cutter this kind of golf is.  There's not one way to hit
  any shot.  I love that.  It brings out some imagination.  It's a
  lot of fun to play this kind of golf.  We don't get to do it very
  often.  So when you do have a chance, I try to enjoy it.
Q.  You joked that this is a big turnout for you, given what
    you achieved last year, FedExCup, and what you've achieved this
    year, does that frustrate you a little?
  BRANDT SNEDEKER:  Not at all.  No, I could care less, to
  be honest with you.  I love flying under the radar.
Q.  Last year at Lytham you found a pub that you spent a
    little bit of time in, have you found anywhere this week that
    you're enjoying?
  BRANDT SNEDEKER:  I found a couple of spots.  I always
  try to find a spot for the week to have a few pints and enjoy the
  locals.  This turns into kind of a guy's week.  You're traveling
  with your agent, your caddie, your swing instructor, so you end up
  hanging out with them all week, having some fun and seeing the
  other guys out there.  It's great.  It's different for us out
  here.  I normally travel with my wife and young kids.  To be at a
  guy's event where you're having a few pints at night and having a
  great time, it's fun.  Something different.
Q.  Have you found a local beer that you like?
  BRANDT SNEDEKER:  You Scottish guys drink Tennent's.  I
  can't drink the dark beers, but Tennent's is as close as I can
  get.
Q.  I think I know the local you found, but I won't give it
    away.  Are you fully fit?  Are you over your problems?
  BRANDT SNEDEKER:  Yeah, I feel great.
Q.  Is there a concern out here with the ground being so
    hard?
  BRANDT SNEDEKER:  I try not to think about it.  No, not
  any more than normal.  I'm tired of feeling like I'm brittle.  I'm
  not brittle.  Nothing is going to happen.  It's just a matter of
  keep doing the injections, and making sure I stay up-to-date on
  that and trying to stay fit.  Not doing too much.  Can't practice
  the way I used to or play the way I used to.  Kind of take it easy
  this week.  I did all my preparation on Saturday and Sunday
  really.  The next couple of days I'm taking it easy to get ready
  for Thursday.
Q.  (No microphone).
  BRANDT SNEDEKER:  Not at all.  I'm more of a picker,
  anyway.  I don't take big divots or anything like that, so it
  doesn't really affect me too much.
Q.  You said earlier this is a great golf course.  What is
    it, in your opinion, that makes it so special?
  BRANDT SNEDEKER:  Well, it's very straightforward.  It's
  right in front of you.  You know when you hit a good shot, you get
  rewarded.  If you hit a bad shot, you're going to pay a penalty.
  Not saying that's not true with most British golf, but this one
  seems more so like that.  There's not bunkers in the middle of the
  fairways.  There's very defined areas where you need to hit it.
  How you get the ball in that defined area is up to you.
  It's a great mix of holes.  I chart what I hit in
  practice round, and I've hit every club in the bag every day.
  You're hitting driver on some holes.  You're hitting 5-irons off
  the tee on some holes.  It's just a really cool mix of holes.  And
  depending on the wind, they can all play completely differently.
  So it's got a great mix of holes.  No hole is a gimme.
  Even holes like No. 2 that seem like they could be pretty easy,
  the wind blows up, you hit one bad shot, and you're struggling to
  make par.  I think it's a great test.  There's no let-up out there
  whatsoever.
Q.  Obviously links golf is a lot different than the golf you
    play in the States, is it a hard adjustment for you?
  BRANDT SNEDEKER:  Yeah, the first day I think I probably
  hit it over 80 percent of the greens, trying to land them
  somewhere near the front of the green, they were one-hopping over
  the green, and going hard in the rush.  It takes you a while to
  get adjusted how far the ball is running out.  I'm realizing that
  you can't work the ball with the wind here.  That's the big thing.
  In America playing golf, working the ball with the wind is normal.
  You just kind of work it with it.  Over here it's so strong you
  can't do it.  You lose control over it.
  So I'm getting used to working up against wind and trying
  to keep the ball in the fairway and keeping the ball low.  It's
  very different.
Q.  Adam Scott was 32 when he won the Masters a few months
    ago.  Justin Rose was 32 when he won The Open.  You could see
    where I'm going.  Could it be fate?
  BRANDT SNEDEKER:  I've been told about that a few times,
  and I loved it.  The precedent being set, and now the hard part is
  making sure it keeps going.  I'll take any little quirky thing and
  use it in my favor.
Q.  You made it halfway last year, but didn't finish it off.
    What did you learn from what happened in the final two rounds that
    you can use this week?
  BRANDT SNEDEKER:  I learned a lot from -- I learned a lot
  in the last four Majors, really, since then.  Playing with Tiger
  last year on Sunday.  I learned a lot watching him play around
  Lytham.  Learned a lot from watching Adam win at the Masters.  I
  learned a lot watching Justin the first two days at the U.S. Open.
  Just about the patience that's required and the process you have
  to go through, and how unimportant each individual shot is, but
  when you add them up they are all extremely important.  And
  finding that delicate balance of how to treat each shot.
  The hardest thing to do in a Major championship is be
  patient for 72 holes and never push the panic button.  The guy
  that wins this week will not do that.  Never hit the panic button.
  But there's going to be a lot of guys that do, and it's hard to
  keep yourself from doing it.
Q.  Is the hard part playing links golf adjusting to the fact
    you're going to get bad bounces?
  BRANDT SNEDEKER:  Yeah, the hard part is the patience
  aspect.  Knowing that sometimes you're going to hit a quality shot
  and not get rewarded, and knowing that there's -- you've got to
  play a completely different style of golf.  You're going to hit
  shots that go 50 yards off line.  I'm sorry, it's just the way it
  is.  You get the ball working with the wind when you've tried to
  hail it up and it will end up in a horrible shot.  Whereas in the
  States it might be in a bunker or ten yards to the green.  Here
  it's going to be 50 or 60 and there's nothing to stop it.
  So it's just different.  You're going to hit what look
  like horrible golf shots that really aren't that bad.  Being
  patient enough to realize everybody is going to do it, and it's
  going to be okay.  It's not the end of the world.  That's really
  tough to do because you feel like every shot is so important in
  the Majors.
Q.  Your temperament is not patience.  You've said that many
    times.  You play at a quick pace.  How do you learn that?  How do
    you learn to slow down for stuff like this?
  BRANDT SNEDEKER:  It's just from being in the mix of it
  and knowing what to expect.  I play a quick pace, but there's a
  difference between playing a quick pace and being patient.
  Patience for me is not slowing my whole routine now.  That's not
  what will make me play better.  I'm not talking about preaching
  patience, I'm talking about shooting away from pins, taking less
  club off tees, being more conservative when you want to be
  aggressive because you made a bogey, not trying to go after pins
  that you shouldn't go after, trying to make an incredible
  up-and-down when you might not be able to get it out of the
  bunker.  That's being patient.
  It has nothing to do with how fast you hit the ball or
  whatever.  It has to do with not letting your previous shot affect
  you and not letting your position in the field affect what you
  need to do.
Q.  Did you get impatient over the last 36 holes at Lytham
    last year?
  BRANDT SNEDEKER:  I don't think I did.  I just made
  typical American mistakes.  The first two days I had no wind
  really whatsoever, and played great golf.  The last 36 holes I
  drove the ball horribly.  If you do that at any Major
  Championship, you're going to play terrible.  I tried to ride the
  wind too many times.  I tried to not play against the odds, you've
  got try to hold the ball up against the wind.  Little stuff like
  that.  And I was putting so well, I was trying to get it on the
  greens and give myself chances.  I just failed to hit the ball in
  the fairway.  I wasn't impatient, but I just failed to execute the
  basic shots off the tees.MIKE WOODCOCK:  Thanks so much.  Good luck this week. 
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT