AT&T NATIONAL
June 29, 2013
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Brandt, a tough stretch there on 9 and 10.   Overall, you gutted out a really good round.   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, I played really well tee to green.   It was kind of hit a bunch of good putts coming over the edge, and made one poor mistake, and that was on 9.   Then I three‑putted 10.   Besides that, I played pretty flawless.     
Good solid round of golf.   Still got a lot of work to do tomorrow to get back and have a chance to win this thing, but I gave myself a chance.  
   
 Q.   Tomorrow's your strategy to be super aggressive.   Does this course allow for that?   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   No, it does not allow for that at all.   You take what the course gives you and realize that a couple under par is a good score.   If I can get hot tomorrow with the putter, makes the golf course more gettable.   
You're going to have to make 10, 15‑footers around here to shoot a low score.   I hadn't done that the first two days.  
   
 Q.   Leaders started off at 7.   They're still at 7 now.   Is that what you expected, for this thing to play a little bit tougher today?   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, on the weekends it's always tougher.   The fairways seem to get a little smaller, and the greens seem to be a little faster.   Just seems to play tougher on the weekend.   
I expect winning score to be 8 or 9 under par, maybe 7, if it gets a little windy tomorrow or something.   So just go out there and shoot a low one tomorrow for a chance to win.  
   
 Q.   Moving up those tee times make any difference for your preparation?   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Not at all.   We're used to doing that.   The Tour does a great job making sure we try to get as much golf in as possible.   That's probably the right idea tomorrow with the forecast.   
Have to get up a little earlier.   Course will be a little bit softer.   It shouldn't play as tough maybe as it would if we were teeing off at 2:00 in the afternoon.  
   
 Q.   I don't know if you know, but No.11 was a total death trap out there for some guys on the leaderboard.   You happened to make birdie there.   What did you see, and how did you play it?   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   It's one of those holes where you kind of need to have the perfect number.   I had a good tee shot up there on the right side and had a good angle for that pin.   Coming off two bogeys, felt like I had a good number to be aggressive there.   Was able hit one really close and make birdie there, which picks up a shot and a half on the field.   
So it was a nice little way to turn the day around and get me back and going in a positive direction.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT