AT&T NATIONAL
June 27, 2013
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Adjusted your putting grip, seemed to pay off, especially at the 9th green.   You had that at 55 feet.   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Every once in a while.   I haven't made a lot of putts recently.   Played pretty solid.   9th hole, I got a little exotic on the 9th hole, started hitting it every way.   I played pretty solid.  
   
 Q.   You never touched the fairway, but the ball touched the bottom of the cup.   Beautiful birdie.   Golf course playing difficult, especially the rough.   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, it is.   You have to be very patient.   You feel like you need to make some birdies because you don't know when you're going to be able to get them.   You make a mistake out here, and you pay for it mentally.   It's nice to kind of get out of there with a good round today.   Greens are getting pretty tough, pretty bumpy this afternoon.   So for tomorrow morning, it's going to be frustrating if you don't make the putt.   
   
 Q.   Were you worried about the weather at all?   Looks like it was all around.   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   We got lucky today.   I don't know how it missed us.   The rain went both ways.  
   
 Q.   Get some rest.   We'll see you in the morning.   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   So my only option is to pitch out backwards and have 500 yards in or go up No.4.   So I said I'll go up No.4, and worst case scenario I could pitch it out on the fairway and make a 6.   Somehow I hit it on one of the tees I don't know how.   I hit it on one of the tee boxes and got one of the tees.   
Actually, I had a good lie, fair lie, so I could go after the green.   Had about ‑‑ figured out 180 to the green and high 6 iron just trying to get it up there somewhere around the green somewhere.   I think it probably went through the trees.   Ended up on the green and made a bomb.   Kind of stealing a couple there, it seems like.  
   
 Q.   What do you think about that hole in general, playing into the wind, playing from that back tee today?   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Par 5 1/2, it played today.   It's just a tough hole.   I hit driver, hybrid, 8 iron in the Pro‑Am yesterday and about the same today.   You need to hit three quality shots.   It's a tough par 5.  
   
 Q.   What was the second shot?   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   A hybrid.   I had a good lie on the left.   It was in the rough.   I played the hybrid and kind of cut through the tree.   Luckily, there was nobody up there.   Hit it up on the men's tee box, the white tee box, got lucky.  
   
 Q.   You were in the men's tee box?   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah.   The normal par 4.  
   
 Q.   How many Majors do you think you'll end up playing this year?   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I've been to three, last two in two weeks, I should say.   So feels like they could hold this up here next week if we wanted to.   It's tough.   Play it all the way back and let the rough take [ inaudible ].   Be interesting to see where the scores go on Sunday, be pretty close to par.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT