U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2013
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   (No Microphone.)
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   It was unlike any other week.   I said that coming in.   It's unlike any other U.S. Open I ever participated in because of the logistical problems they had here.   But they did the best they could. 
The golf course, day one, I got here I knew it was going to be a tough golf course.   I knew it was short, but it played to a great test.   The long holes played really tough and the shorter holes, if you played them the right way, you could make some birdies.   But if you didn't, they were tough too.   It was a great test.   I thought it was fair.   A few pin positions probably got a little bit out of hand and a few of the greenside stuff got out of hand, but they try to do what they usually do to get the score around par and they got what they wanted.

Q.   It took 32 years to get back here, would you like to see it here again?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I think that as great as this week was, I think the U.S. Open has kind of moved past one of these venues.   It's been great to be part of it.   I love the history here, but there's so much more that goes in a U.S. Open than just golf. 
Just from an infrastructure standpoint, from a fan standpoint, from a global marketing standpoint, I feel like this tournament needs more space to put on a championship in the right way. 

Q.   With that said, is it kind of weird that some of the holes where you might hit a great shot and there's nobody there so you don't know what the heck happened.   Is that kind of strange?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   You get that at certain events.   Augusta you get that on 12 and 13.   You're going to get that at some golf courses. 
But the thing I thought still shows is 16, 17, 18, the way they had the grandstands set up there.   It was such a really, really cool, unlike any other Major I ever played.   Maybe an Open Championship on 18, the amphitheater like that on 17 and 18, it's really, really cool to see somebody make a putt and see the crowd go crazy so that was really awesome.

Q.   So in today's world, the infrastructure is not conducive to bringing it back here?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   No, I don't think it is unless something happens drastically in the next ten years where they're able to move some stuff around or redo the routing around here.   We had some problems here.   Not from us.   From a golfer's standpoint, it's great.   We get taken care of.   I don't know from the fan standpoint.   Only letting 15,000 people experience this championship is probably on the low end.   It would be great to see 40,000 or 50,000 fans out there to enjoy it.

Q.   It couldn't be fun to have a practice range where you had to take a car?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   That's fine.   We do that on TOUR.   It's not the end of the world.   I thought they did the best with what they had.   It was just from an infrastructure standpoint, it's just lacking a few things.   And they did the best with what they could, and they used homes.   They did what they could to make this the best way possible and it ran great. 
I don't think too many players complained too much that anything had to do with us.   Maybe from a fan standpoint it would be a different perspective.

Q.   It's a tough golf course and the pin placements were fair, but did they have to make the pin placements where they were to make it as tough as it is?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yes.   They were pins out there that were borderline.   And they had to do that to try to keep the scores where they wanted to.   We understood that.   You have a hole you're hitting a 6‑iron and a wedge, you expect the pin to be a little bit silly.   And they were.   And I think that they will be the first one to admit that a few of them got out of hand a little bit, but that's a U.S. Open.   Everybody has to play the same hole.   It happens every year there's always a couple holes that are borderline.   We're used to it.   It is okay.   It's not the end of the world.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT