THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2013
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   No one that's been in the final group with him on Sunday has broken par.   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Okay.  
   
 Q.   Does that surprise you?   What's going on there?   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   If you look at the places he's played on the weekend, I think the scoring average is probably 74 on Sunday.   If you look at Bay Hill, Torrey Pines‑‑ where else?   Doral, I guess is really windy.   Today is a very, very tough day.   
So, I just think it's tough being in the final group with Tiger just because there is a lot more attention on you, but on top of that, we're playing very tough golf courses in very tough conditions, so I think it's kind of par for the course.  
   
 Q.   Does this feel at all like a U.S. Open kind of weekend?   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Today it got really crispy.   The greens got really fast, and it was really tough.   It tested you mentally and physically.   It was as baked out as I've ever seen it here.   It was hard.   It was really, really hard.  
   
 Q.   Yet you had it going?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I had it going and made some mistakes coming in.   It's just so hard to judge the wind.   You get in these trees and you can't tell how much it's blowing, if it's helping or hurting, put the ball in some bad spots and it was really hard to two‑putt.   It takes a toll on you.   
Martin played great.   He did an unbelievable job today getting his ball around the golf course.   He really could have played it a little bit better.   He missed a few putts.  
   
 Q.   What is an exceptional score here in the conditions today?   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I think you just saw it.   I think you saw the round of the day.   5‑under par is pretty tough to beat.   Yeah, 5‑under.   He played pretty phenomenal.  
   
 Q.   You played with Tiger in the fall; what is it about his game now that translates to more courses than just his usual playgrounds like Torrey and Bay Hill?   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   He's just putting really good.   When you're putting really good, all the courses are very, very playable.   He's always hit it really good, now he's starting to get that putter back to the way it was in 2000.   Didn't seem like he missed a putt for two years, and he's kind of getting that feeling back again.   Basically, with Tiger, when he makes his short putts it's really tough.   If he makes a lot 15, 20‑footers, and it's the five, six, seven footers he's been making all year.   When you get your stroke dialed in, it does become a lot easier and makes the game a lot easier.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT