AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 7, 2019
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. It was a nice opening round for Brandt Snedeker.  Two-time champion here at Pebble Beach.  But perhaps the best memory is the birdie you just made on 18.  Take us through after the errant drive.  What was going on through your mind when you were down there investigating your second?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: You know, unfortunately I've been down there before so I kind of know the routine and I got lucky, had a great lie.  So I'm sitting down there thinking, if I don't hit this I'm going to make a bogey if I drop it on top.  If I hit this shot soft I'm going to make a birdie.  So I thought, what the heck, give it a rip, and it came off.  Luckily it came over the way I was thinking.  I didn't hit myself, I didn't fall down getting out of the rocks down there, it was a little slippery.  So it all worked out great.  I'm feeling I'm a genius right now, but at the time I didn't know.  I had a little 7-iron in here for my third shot, 170 yards, hit a really nice shot in there about 15 feet behind the hole.  And at that point I thought, okay, I've gotten really lucky on this hole, I need to make this putt to kind of cap it off.  So lucky enough, easy putt to read, had it before, a little downhill, left to right, was able to make it for birdie.
Q. Well, it wasn't a routine four, but nonetheless it was one of those we'll remember for quite some time.  As a two-time winner here what is it about this place that seemingly brings out the best in your game?  To come back to somewhere that you've won not only once, but twice.
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, you know, it's hard not to be in a good mood at Pebble Beach.  It really is.  So I really embrace what being here is about.  I embrace the history of the golf tournament, I embrace the golf courses, I love the amateur formats and it always seems like I'm playing with one of my best friends out here in the tournament for four days.  So if you embrace it and have a great time and enjoy it, it seems like it brings out my best golf.  So looking forward to the next couple of days.  I know the weather isn't going to be great, but it's going to be a lot of fun to be out there with my buddy Aneel and have a good time the next couple days.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT