MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 14, 2013
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  BRANDT SNEDEKER:   The last Masters I ended in tears and now my daughter's crying in tears, so I guess we're just tearful.  
You know, it's just a tough day.   I really actually played pretty well.   The greens really messed me up.   I was so used to how fast they were yesterday and I left every putt short out there today.   I could not get a putt to the hole.   I did not do a good job of making adjustments and I'm disappointed.   I was there for one reason, to win, and I didn't do it, and I watched Angel play great.   It was very, very disappointing.  
  
Q.   You said that five years ago you had no clue what you were doing.   How frustrating was that especially on 13, it looked like you were trying to snap your club in half?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   That one really got me mad.   Because I knew I still had a chance.   I knew that 13, 15, 16 where the pin was, that I had a lot of birdie opportunities left and just disappointed with the way I hit that shot.   I know you can't hit it over there, I know what I did wrong, and I couldn't keep myself from doing it and that's what ‑‑ that was really frustrating.  
  
Q.   How different is this from 2008?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   It's different.   I'm not as crushed as I was in 2008 because I know I'm going to be there again.   I know this golf course so well and I putted about as poorly as I could today and I still had a chance on the back nine.  
So I'm not ‑‑ I'm very disappointed that I didn't win, but I realize that I'm not that far off from winning this thing.   I'm going to do it soon.  
  
Q.   When did you notice that they were slowing down?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Really like on 5 and 6, 7, 8, I really started to notice that they were slowing down a lot.   And then the back nine, I could not get a putt to the hole, no matter what I did.   I hardly ever, if you watched me play, I never leave putts short.   And I probably left every putt short coming in.   Which is very unlike me.   And so I didn't make the adjustment that you got to make.  
  
Q.   Are you more frustrated or upset with the outcome today?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I'm both.   Both.   Any time have you a chance to win the Masters and you don't come through, my life‑long dream, you're going to be upset, you're going to cry, you know, but I'll get through it.  
I'm playing great, I look forward to what the next weeks are going to hold.   And I'm going to come back here next year and I'm going to do my best to get in that last group again.  
  
Q.   You were so excited last night when you left the putting green and when you walked to the first green today.   Do you think you were too pumped up?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Not at all.   If I was too pumped up I wouldn't have birdied the first hole.   I think today was a simple case of me hitting two loose shots that really cost me two shots.   I did not putt the way you're supposed to putt around Augusta.   I just never had the speed.   If I putt the way I normally putt and don't make those two loose swings, I'm right there with a chance to win the golf tournament.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the day.   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Just frustrated and disappointed.   I played pretty well and putted horrible and didn't make the adjustments you got to make.   These greens got really slow out there on the back nine the last 14 holes they were slow.   And I did not make the adjustments you have to make.   Angel did a great job of making some key putts, getting the ball up to the hole, seeing some putts go in.   And I didn't do a good job of that at all.   
Outside of that I played really well.   I gave myself some chances.   I had one loose swing on 13 that cost me a little bit and one loose swing on 10 really cost me.   And the short putt there.   
But I'm pretty excited with the way I played and I know that if I do that again, play the exact same way again and I putt the way I normally do, I got a chance.  
   
 Q.   Were you surprised the greens were so slow?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yes.   Yes.   Especially at the putting green.   First green was really fast, second green started to slow down a little bit, and after that they were really slow.  
   
 Q.   How deflating was the missed putt at 10?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Pretty tough.   I fought my way back there.   I hit a great pitch shot three feet above the hole and that's just me being tentative and not using the speed of the greens the way they were.   I felt the greens were the same speed they were yesterday and if they were, it would have been no problem.   If it had more speed, it would have gone right in the hole.   That's the difference.  
   
 Q.   Talk about how ready you were to win the Masters and what effect does that have on, did you want it too much?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   No, I didn't want it too much at all.   I'm going to tell you this until I'm blue in the face.   If I wanted it too much I would have made played horrible today, I would have got off to a difficult start and done a bunch of stupid stuff.   
I didn't do that.   I played really well, within myself, I managed my game plan really well, I just putted terrible.   Period.   I hit two loose swings and I putted awful.   You can't win a golf tournament if you do that.  
   
 Q.   What did you hit on 13?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Hybrid.   
   
 Q.   Did you try to break it?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   No, I didn't.   No, I didn't.   I needed that club on 15.   
(Laughter.)   I was trying to hit it, I was in between clubs and I took the longer club and tried to cut a ball off that fairway, which is really difficult to do, but it was the only way I had a chance of getting it close.   
My 4‑iron wouldn't have made it and the hybrid, if I hit it normal is too much.   So I tried to cut it and came out of it and hit it where you can't hit it.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   No, no, there's a lot of positives to take out of today.   Today I had a really good chance to win a Major Championship and I didn't do it.   
   
 Q.   How about the week overall, what do you take out of this?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I feel like my game's really close to where it was at the beginning of the year.   I think I'm right there.   If I tighten it up just a little bit more I'm going to have some really good golf ahead of me.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   No, not at all.   
   
 Q.   How hard was it in 2008 compared to today?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   It's going to be more difficult tonight because I had a really good chance at the end of the day if I do what I normally do.   It will be tough to sit there and watch the playoff and actually hear what happens.   It's going to be a tough night.   A tough couple days.   
   
 Q.   This has been a season of ups and downs for you, with the injury to being here today, do you think you can come back from this?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, I fully expect to be in contention for the U.S. Open.   I know my game can hold up to it, I know I was close today.   I'm ready to go do it.   
   
 Q.   Your getting yourself in these positions all the time, are you starting to feel a little bit better?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, I definitely I'm more prepared today, I did a lot of good stuff, it's disappointing that I didn't make the adjustment.   That's something that you got to learn at Major Championships to make the adjustments on the fly and do some things like that, but I didn't do a good job today.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT