MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2013
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Good way to end today.   A birdie.   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, it was nice.   I birdied two of my last three to get in red numbers for the day.   And it is a tough day.   There wasn't a lot to be found easy out there on the golf course today.   I made a few mistakes.   On the back nine I played a really solid round of golf.   It was really nice to come in that way.  
   
 Q.   What turned around for you?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I started putting the ball in the fairway.   If you don't put the ball in the fairway around here you're going to struggle.   And I did a great job on the back nine of putting the ball in the fairway and left myself manageable misses and guessed the wind right.   There were a few tough holes out there, but I hit some quality shots coming down the stretch.   
   
 Q.   Not quite the adventure today.   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, not quite the adventure today.   I haven't had as many tough shots today as I have the past couple of days.   I tightened up the driver a considerable amount.   So if I keep doing that over the next few days, it will be fun.  
   
 Q.   Was 7 a problem?   What happened there today?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, just missed the fairway in the wrong spot.   To a right pin, you miss it left, you can't miss it right.   I missed it right.   I made a mistake.   
I had a few long bunker shots that I hit today so that's something I got to go work on to get ready for the weekend.  
   
 Q.   16 might have been the one that kind of jump started you?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, it was great.   I made a bunch of pars to start the back nine.   To have a birdie putt, a 20‑footer go in on 16 gave me some momentum.   
Then I hit a great shot on 17 and a good putt on 17 and just missed it.   
Then 18, I hit a great second shot in there, so.   
   
 Q.   What did you hit?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I hit an 8‑iron into 18.   So a great way to end the day.   A lot of momentum going into the weekend and a lot of good stuff yet to come, hopefully.  
   
 Q.   Clearly you're where you want to be.   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, I'm excited.   This is, after two tough, you know, everybody was saying how easy the golf course played yesterday, well today it played really, really different, really, really tough.   So I think that to be where I am within a few shots of the leader going into the weekend with the way I'm playing golf, I'm very excited about that.   
   
 Q.   Are you still going to stick with the game plan?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Well, yeah, I think the game plan's going to change because the golf course is going to be different tomorrow.   It's going to play differently than it played today.   But to play well around here I've got to hit the fairways.   If I don't hit the fairways I don't have a chance.   And I hit some good shots on the back nine and was able to do that.   So it gives me a good shot going into the weekend.   
   
 Q.   Were you rather be coming from behind or leading?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   No, I would rather be leading.   
   
 Q.   Compare 15 yesterday to today.   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   15 yesterday I could have hit 5‑iron into the green in two.   Today I hit driver, 6‑iron, gap wedge.   For a considerable difference there.   
   
 Q.   The layup is difficult.   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, where you lay it up is and then that pin's such a tough pin to hit a wedge to.   I hit it over the green today.   You got such a fine line there.   If you get a wind gust and come up short you're going to kick yourself.   If you go long it's a tough up‑and‑down.   It's a really, really tough hole when that pin's on the left side like that.  
   
 Q.   Did you lay up?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I laid up on the right, very right side to try to get an angle so I feel like I had more green to shoot across.   Some guys, I know Jose was right behind me, he wound up way left.   He likes coming in straight at it.   I just prefer to see more green.   
   
 Q.   What was the yardage on that?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I had a hundred yards to the pin.   That's kind of what I wanted, but the wind blowing the way it was, I hit it a little too hard.   
   
 Q.   What did you think about the 14 year old being called for the penalty?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   That's the first time I ever heard of that.   I did not know that happened today.   That's unfortunate.   And that it cost him the cut or anything like that?   
   
 Q.   Well, it looked like it might for awhile, but it looks like he's going to make it.   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   You know, that's unfortunate.   I wish they would have made an example out of somebody else except for a 14 year old kid, you know?   I'm sure he was just ‑‑ made an example out of me or somebody else, but a kid just trying to make a cut in his first week of the Masters.   But I understand that slow play is a problem and it's just a tough situation.   I feel bad for the kid.   
   
 Q.   It's a tough course with a lot of wind, is it too slow today?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   You know, I don't know.   I felt like the pace of play was fine.   It was slow today, but you got a course like this with pins like this, with greens like this, with 30 mile an hour wind gusts, there's no way you're going to play fast.   I don't care who you are.   
   
 Q.   He said that the wind was, he didn't know what it was going to do.   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Well, it's just, I had a couple times where I cleaned my line off and stuff would blow in my line, I would have to clean it off again, two or three times.   And that kind of stuff is happening and it's just not feasible to play really, really quickly today.   You try to do your best, I mean I'm sure that ‑‑ I don't know the situation that led to him getting that penalty, but I feel bad for him and I'm sure the people giving him the penalty stroke felt bad for him too.   I'm sure they didn't want to do it, but I'm sure they felt like it was something that needed to be done.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT