MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2013
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Good round?   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Tell us your thoughts about your round.   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, played very scrapey.   I didn't drive it the way I needed to drive it to contend around here, but made a lot of key putts today, birdied all the par‑5s, which is what you've got to do, and I kind of held on even though I wasn't hitting it the way I wanted to.   I kind of held on and got a good round under my belt, which is nice.   I know if I can kind it turn it around the next couple days and get the driver where I want it, it should be a lot of fun.   
   
 Q.   Give me highlights that you‑‑  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   You know, not really.   I got off to a good start birdieing 2 and 3, and then I made an awful swing on 5 and snap‑hooked it in the hazard and made a double bogey there.   
I think probably the big luck break of the day was I got up‑and‑down on 11 after hitting it in the water for bogey, which was nice, kept the momentum going, and then on 13 I hit one right and it stayed up, and was able to chip‑‑ got it up to about 10 feet, made a key putt there for birdie.   So I got some momentum going, made me feel really good about stealing a couple there, and posted a good round.   So I'm excited about it.   
   
 Q.   What about the course?   Do you feel it's receptive to go low‑‑  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, today was a really gettable day.   I played with Justin.   Justin played great.   He had a chance to shoot a really low one out there, the putts just kind of seemed to hang on the edge for him all day.   But felt like the wind wasn't swirling too bad, the ball is really moving out there.   All the par‑5s are extremely reachable.   If you wanted to go low, today was the day to do it probably.   
   
 Q.   With Steven Fox playing in this, have you reached out to a fellow Tennesseean and given him any advice?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, we played the par‑3 yesterday and just talked to him about keeping calm.   He was having a hard time breathing yesterday in that par‑3 contest, so wanted to make sure he kind of relaxed and had a good time out there.   It looked like he was doing well.   I hadn't seen him‑‑ I saw he was even par through 11 or something like that.   But hopefully he can kind of come up with a nice round and play the weekend.   
   
 Q.   Is there anybody that maybe mentored you a little bit when you were first‑‑  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   It was just kind of‑‑ Tennesseeans playing is a very rare thing, so when you see a couple of us in it, I make sure I seek them out.   I've known Steven for a little while now, and he's a great kid, so I wish him all the best this week.  
   
 Q.   Obviously the putter was good.   Are you going to the range now?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I am, yeah, I'll go to the range, try to find something for the next three days.   It's close, it's just not quite there.   I'm doing about 80 percent of the time instead of 100 percent of the time, so hopefully we can get it figured out.   
   
 Q.   On 13 did you think it was down‑‑  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, I thought it was down.   I kind of flared it out to the right, hit right of the hazard, and I guess they let that rough grow up there this year for the first time, and I caught a little perch there that I didn't even know was there.  
   
 Q.   You didn't know until you walked‑‑  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   No, I was thinking about where I was going to drop it, and to get that kind of break is really a nice bonus.   
   
 Q.   Then on 5, are you hitting 3‑wood there or driver?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   No, hitting driver and just put a horrible, uncommitted swing on it and snap‑hooked one there.   Didn't even know there was the hazard over there.   Yeah, proceeded to make a double bogey, which is probably the best I could have hoped for after a tee shot like that.  
   
 Q.   You finished up with some pars.   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, made a bunch of birdies and a bunch of bogeys, a bunch of mistakes and did everything I wasn't supposed to do today thinking my way around the golf course, but I was able to survive it.   The one key thing I wanted to do well today was play the par‑5s and the par‑3s well, and I did.   I played the par‑5s 1‑under and the par‑3s even.   You do that, you set yourself up for success around here.  
   
 Q.   Folks say you can't win on day one but you can lose.   Did you avoid losing?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, I'm right there.   I know Mark has got a 6‑under par, but I mean, I think‑‑ you never know how the course is going to play the rest of the days.   Got an under par round, got it under my belt, and there's a lot of golf left.   I know if I keep doing this every day, keep playing the par‑5s the way I did today, it should be a good weekend.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT