MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2013
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Billy Payne announced some changes earlier today, and I thought I'd tell you about them.   One was for this tournament.   It's not going to be the Top 44 in ties and wins.   It's going to be Top 50, so it gets more players into the weekend. 
BRANDT SNEDEKER:     Okay.

Q.   I guess it's good for the TV viewers and the people here, what do you think about it from your point of view? 
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I think it's great.   I mean, I think there's‑‑ any time you have more guys making the weekend, I'm for it.   I try to always be around it. 
So, no, I think it will be great.   You know, I think‑‑ I don't think you are going to see that much of a difference, but ‑‑ I mean, a couple more players is not that much of a difference, I don't think. 

Q.   Also, on the same kind of vein but in a different way, because the fall events are going to count now, the full points events are going to count, that means more bodies coming into the tournament as winners so they had to narrow the parameters, and they are going to get‑‑ it's going to be the Top 12, not Top 16 finishers at the Masters?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Okay.

Q.   Top 4, not Top 8 at the U.S. Open?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Okay.

Q.   And it's not going to be the qualifying by the Top 30 PGA Tour money leaders.   That's gone. 
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Okay.

Q.   Still the World Rankings are there?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah.

Q.   But the tour money leaders, so you are going to have some good golfers that are going to need to win tournament, it sounds like?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Well, yeah, but I think the top players still get in.   It's just a way of clarifying a couple of the‑‑ make it simpler for people to understand how you qualify for the Masters.

Q.   It gets pretty complicated?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, it can get very complicated, so I think they are doing a good job of cleaning it up a little bit and making it easier for everybody to understand. 
I think at the end of the day, it's probably going to be about the same amount of guys who qualify.   I don't know if anybody can really complain.   I mean, you know what you have to do.   If you qualify, you qualify.   If you don't, you don't.

Q.   You know a lot of the young golfers at Sea Island and everything.   Do they gripe about‑‑ not gripe, do they wish that winning those fall events could have counted? 
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I really hadn't talked to them about it, to be honest with you.   I think they are so excited about winning, I don't think, you know, everybody‑‑ I remember when I won, it didn't get me in the Masters.   Part of it was‑‑ it's collectively your effort.   Making the Tour Championship was a bonus, being Top 50 in the world is a bonus, so you kind of know what you have to do going into it.   So I don't think there is any hard will or ill will or anything like that.

Q.   As long as you know the rules ahead of time?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, and they do a great job here of letting you know exactly what you need to do to get in.   You feel like you've accomplished something.   I think that's something that makes this Masters so special.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT