SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 10, 2019
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great start to your tournament, and quite the contrast from last week, isn't it?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, it totally is.  You gonna have to get your mind -- different putting around here, different lines off tees, that kind of stuff.  Took me a few holes to get the flow of the round.   
Finished it off with a great front nine.  Shot 3-under par on that nine, which can be the tougher of the two nines.  A little bit of a slow start this morning, but kind of turned it around and turned it into a good round.   
 Q.  I know you mentioned the putting.  I don't know if the fans can understand how different it is.  The winds aren't as strong ans the greens are a little faster re, aren't they?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: They are faster and a lot flatter.  The biggest break you'll see here is maybe a foot of break maybe on a putt.  Last week if you had anything under a foot you would be excited.  Everything was five, six, seven feet, over ten feet.   
It's hard kind of pulling your lines back in and realizing, Okay, there are a lot of right edge putts, left edge putts here.  Speed is a lot faster, so you have to be a little bit more tentative with your putting here.   
That being said, the greens are rolling perfect.  If you can get your mind adjusted to the speed of these greens and the lines, you can make some putts.   
 Q.  Your win late in the season last year would indicate that you're healthy.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah.   
 Q.  Are you fully healthy now?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I am fully healthy.  Body feels great.  Last week was a good first week of the year to kind of see where my game stacked up.  I drove it great; just didn't really make a lot putts last week and my wedge game was a little bit off.   
Came here with those two main focuses this week, make sure my wedge game was on pointe and really focused on my putting.  Today went well; drove it pretty good.  There was some opportunities.   
This place seems to suit me pretty well.  Should have fun the next three days.   
 Q.  You start your round like you did with an early bogey, you just stay patient?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, you kind of have to here.  You're going to do that around this golf course occasionally where you get it out of position.  Nothing you can do, especially with several of the new greens here.  Hit the wrong shot at the wrong time, there is nothing else you can do.   
Front nine I had two par-5s -- even if I bogey, I still had two good par-5s left; lots of wedge opportunities.  If you stay patient and hit some fairways you can make some birdies around here.   
 Q.  Why do you like this golf course?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: It's always -- you got to really think your way.  It's not just step up and bash it.  You can hit any club you want to off every tee.  You can hit driver if you want, you can hit 4-iron off the tee, and there is really no right or wrong way to do it.  We don't have a lot of those options anymore.  Seems like most golf courses are hit it as hard as you can as far as you can and figure it out from there.   
There are several holes today I hit driver and Adam hit 3-iron.  Other holes where Pat hit driver and I hit 4-iron.  I liked seeing that variety off tees.  You kind of come up with a game plan that suits your game best and kind of go from there.   
 Q.  Kind of left field.  What is your thought on putting with the (indiscernible.)  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I did it today some.  I've kind of gotten used to it.  It's a little different visually for me.  At first I thought made the hole look a little smaller the closer I got to it.  As I've gotten used to it now the last couple weeks, definitely outside ten feet I've leaving it every time.  Getting used to leaving it in on putts that might be a little fast.   
 Q.  Golf course seem a little firmer than years past?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Greens are definitely firmer and faster than they have been here.  Seems almost like a little thinner than they have.   
 Q.  It's because they've been redone.  They're kind of new.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, so not most of them.  But, yeah, you're sitting a drive 350 today, hitting 2-irons 280, 290, so distance wasn't a real big...   
 Q.  Just control off the tee?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, 20-yard range you're trying to leave it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT