AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 8, 2013
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about your round.   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, I played really solid today.   I didn't really make any mistakes which was nice and made some key par putts but four birdies, no bogeys.   
I birdied 12, the par3.   I hit an 8‑iron to about three feet, which was nice.  
And then I birdied the par5, 14.   I hit a sand wedge to about three feet, easy birdie.   And then I birdied, made a bunch of pars in that next stretch.   
On 7, the par5, I hit sand wedge to about three feet.  
And 8, I hit an 8‑iron about five feet.   I didn't make a lot of putts today but look forward to going into the weekend, confidence is very high, and after last week, feel like my game is where I want it to be and two good days to go, should be a lot of fun.   
   
 Q.   Is it an advantage playing Pebble last, before Sunday?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I think if anything, we have an advantage seeing the course two days in a row and seeing how the course is playing.   The greens, we'll know how they are bouncing.   Every day it's been different, because Monterey Peninsula, you play it early in the week and it was different yesterday than I remember playing it; Spyglass I played earlier in the week and it was super firm and today it was softer.  
So I think playing Pebble back‑to‑back days is definitely an advantage.  
   
 Q.   How is this weekend different in the context of the way your season started, to be so close a couple times?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, I feel really good about it.   I take nothing but positives away from the way I've played the weekend the last couple events.   I know I'll have a lot of fun this weekend, so just try to recreate that.   That's how you win out here; you keep putting yourself in position, and the more times you do, that the more success you're going to have.   
I realize I'm playing really well and not try to do anything too stupid this week and not wear myself out early in the week, and be patient and keep doing the small stuff I did last week really well.   
I'm doing a better job this week of making my way around the golf courses and not putting myself in bad spots and getting out of tough situations very quickly.   It's been real promising this week the way I've taken that momentum from last week into this one.  
   
 Q.   Be nice to take a win here‑‑  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, any time you can get a win at Pebble Beach, it would be pretty special.   
   
 Q.   Good to finish out the way you did.   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, no bogeys out here, it was playing tough today with the wind obviously a little bit and fairways were soft, so you get a few mud balls out there, but kind of dinked it around, kept it in play and didn't do anything too stupid.   Made a few about birdies coming in on 7 and 8 and it was nice to steal those coming in and put myself in good position going into the last two days.   
   
 Q.   And try not to do anything stupid.   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Right, try not to.   That's my M.O., not do anything stupid.   Unfortunately I don't do it very often.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT