FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 28, 2013
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Kind of there is a curse going on.   You get the first round lead, and I think since 1987 no one's ever won this tournament.   
    BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, it was a good week.   I was a little disappointed with the way I finished today.   Just didn't roll the ball the way I wanted to all week.   Had a good little stretch in my third round, being the fourth round, end of the third round.   But you've got to roll the ball really well around here, and I didn't do a good job of that in the second round.   It's a little frustrating because it's normally something I think I can do well.   
    It was a good last 36 holes, but I've still got a lot of stuff to work on for next week.  
   
 Q.   You talked about how much you like these greens and kind of the way it shook out.   What was the difference between the two days?   
    BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Well, I wasn't hitting my lines very well the first couple days.   The first day I did.   The second day I didn't.   And I really hit the ball well the last 36 holes and just couldn't get the momentum going.   
    Today I went out and had a good birdie putt through the first hole today, didn't make it.   Hit a good putt, and didn't go in.   Hit four good putts coming in and none of them went in.   
    So just an unfortunate way to end.   I played really well, and the momentum I had last night, to have to stop and come out here this morning and finish was very frustrating.  
   
 Q.   You wake up this morning and you're six shots back, and you know you're playing for second place. Does that change your mindset at all?   
    BRANDT SNEDEKER:   No, there's a lot of golf out there.   I thought if I could get out and play 14‑under that I might have a chance.   The conditions are tough.   The wind is blowing.   It's cold.   The ball is not rolling real far.   So I knew this course could yield some bogeys, but that being done, you've still got to post it.   And I didn't, so that's pretty disappointing.  
   
 Q.   I know you're focused on your round, but did you watch at all what Tiger did?   
    BRANDT SNEDEKER:   No, not at all.  
   
 Q.   Did you have flashbacks to your seven‑strokes after the third round last year?   
    BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Every year is a different round.   Last year was completely different.   My game was a lot sharper last year.   This year I was a little loose in the second round.   Third round I got sharp again, but my short game wasn't quite where I wanted it to be.   So that was a little frustrating.   But, you know, we'll try to make some putts next week.  
   
 Q.   How would you judge this week for yourself?   Obviously, you're not happy.   You want to win every week.   
    BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, it was good.   I guess it was a good title defense.   I'm not really excited about the way I finished.   If I had made three birdies going into today, I'd probably be more excited about it.   But that's how you judge it is how you finish, and I didn't finish very well, so that's very frustrating.   
    But at the beginning of the week if you had told me I'd have a chance on the back nine on Sunday, I probably would have taken it.   So it's something to build on.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT