FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 26, 2013
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Can I just ask you what it's like trying to prepare your body on a day like this? 
    BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, you get out there, 5 a.m. ready to go for a 7:30 tee time, and to be here at 2 o'clock doing nothing, it's tough when you prepare one day, and then it's one of those days where preparation is going to be kind of thrown off. 
    But we have these days from time to time.   We kind of know what to do to keep your mind fresh and ready to go.   You realize it's a different week, and could be a Monday finish now and be ready for that.

Q.   How is it different from last year?   This is quite a big difference, huh? 
    BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, quite a big difference.   The weather and the leaderboard is a lot different now.   I'm not where I want to be.   Last time I was in the lead, and now I'm a few shots back.

Q.   So coming back on a Sunday, it's going to be a Saturday, what is the mental focus like? 
    BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Tomorrow you'll have to go low.   It's going to be a weird day.   You'll play a lot of golf tomorrow, and probably play more than 18 holes.   We need to get out here with the mindset that we need to make a lot of birdies, try to get back in contention and do as well as you can.

Q.   What do you do during the day like today to bide your time? 
    BRANDT SNEDEKER:   You catch up with some guys you haven't seen in a while.   You do a lot of storytelling.   You eat four or five times and try to pass the time as best as possible. You don't want to think too much about the golf course right now.   You just want to have fun and keep your mind fresh and not think about what you have to do over the next day.

Q.   Have you warmed up? 
    BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I've warmed up three times already.   I've putted for three hours, probably.   I've gotten a good practice session in.   And I feel like the game is where it needs to be and hopefully it will be there for me tomorrow, too. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT