THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 6, 2018
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Take us through that second round.  You were top at 10-under par, had trouble at 4 there, and you were able to keep it together.
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, kind of disappointing to go honest with you.  Played really good 34 holes pretty much the first two days, and to mess it up on two holes was kind of disappointing.  Didn't really putt very good the first two days, so shows you how good I was hitting it.  Doing that took me off the top of the leaderboard.
It's not where I want to be.  It's kind of disappointing, but there is nothing I can do about it now.  So I've got to put it behind me and get ready for the weekend.  I'll be at least five back, maybe more by the end of the day, so you can make a lot of birdies come tomorrow and Sunday.  So I kind of know what I need to do.
Q. With the ball striking and that shape, does that give you confidence?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: It really does.  Putting is not far off, I had a bunch of good putts, just didn't want to go in the first days for whatever reason.  So I'm going to work on it this afternoon.  Hopefully my ball striking can be the same the next two days.  If my ball striking is like it has been, I know my putting will come around.  It's just a matter of time.  So I'm looking forward to this Saturday and Sunday.
Q. Has the weather played a difference in your round from yesterday to today?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Not really.  We got kind of lucky today.  It looked worse than it ended up being.  A little soft this morning, so we had some chances there, but the greens were a little slower.  Took us a little while to get used to that.  But all in all we've been very lucky forcing the shape and making the balls go a long way.  So it makes the course play a lot shorter than it would be.
Q. Are you used to scores being this low on this golf course?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, it just seems like if you're on your game here, there are a lot of wedges in your hands, a lot of birdie opportunities.  So you can be aggressive, and if you're driving the ball on the fairway, you really take all the danger out of play.  There's about four or five holes that can kind of get by you, and the rest of them are all birdie holes pretty much.  And the greens her are perfect.  So if you hit the greens and you're 35 feet away, it feels like a birdie opportunity.
So when you're just a little bit off like me, it makes me doubly frustrated because you see everyone else making putts and you're not doing it.  So you've got to find a way to make putts here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT