WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 3, 2012
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You just shot a fabulous 60 but looked like there was tinge of disappointment on the last green?  
    BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, there is, you don't get a chance to shoot 59 too often, maybe a couple much times in your career and to do in a World Golf Championships event is special.   I played great today, made a lot of putts.   
    Can't be too disappointed with how I played today, but you always want to make that last one.   
   
 Q.   At what stage in the round did you start thinking you could shoot 59?   Was it the eagle on 15?  
    BRANDT SNEDEKER:   That's when it got in my mind.   I knew I was playing well, and I was having a really good round and then I eagled 15 and I thought, well, wait a second, if I birdie the last three, I can shoot 59.   A lot of fun on 18, getting the nerves going again but disappointed not to birdie the last hole but still, great round.  
   
 Q.   And you had a chance on 18?  
    BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I hit a great shot from the fairway burning tore give myself a 15‑, 20‑footer, hit a good putt, misread it a little bit but back in the golf tournament, which teeing off first today off the first hole, I needed a lot of work and I got a lot of work done today so excited where I am tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   You are back in the tournament but you're still probably going to be four, five, six shots back at the end of the day.   What do you think you need to shoot tomorrow?  
    BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Probably 7‑ or 8‑under par tomorrow.   Just showed today I can do it.   Had a lot of putts in the first two rounds, played pretty good the first two rounds and made nothing.   Made a lot today and hopefully make a lot more tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Can you explain why scoring is so low around here?  
    BRANDT SNEDEKER:   The par 5s are all reachable so the guys are looking at that, if you birdie four of the five par 5s, you can do it.   If you drive the ball well you have a lot of short irons in your hand.   The greens are rolling great and if you hit on the greens, you can make a lot of putts.   
   
 Q.   How do you feel after that?  
    BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, I feel great, getting back in the golf tournament.   Disappointed I didn't make that putt on the last hole.   
    Thinking about it walking up 18, you don't have many chances in your career to shoot 59 and when you do, make sure you give it your best effort.   I did, misread the putt on 18, just a little unfortunate.   
    You know, it will all be forgotten tomorrow if I go out here and win this tournament, which is what I came here to do.   I got back in the golf tournament which is great and obviously playing good golf, so tomorrow should be a lot of fun.  
   
 Q.   What goes through your minds at that stage?   Do you have to keep pushing?  
    BRANDT SNEDEKER:   That's one thing about this golf course, you know you have to make birdie.   The par 5s are all reachable and short par 4s with wedges in your hands, and when you have chances, you need to make them.   I got on a hot run with my putter and made a lot of really, really good putts.   
   
 Q.   And the par on 11?   
    BRANDT SNEDEKER:   One bad tee shot I hit today, I hit it right in the hazard and was able to find it and chip it out.   Almost made a putt off the green and made birdie there.   That's one that I look back on today, probably the one that cost me 59.   
   
 Q.   Start again tomorrow; take that again?   
    BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, I'd take that again in a heartbeat.   It's hard to come back after a round like today and play good tomorrow.   I know I have my work cut out for me but I'm going to go out there and try to shoot as low as I possibly can.   
    I got lucky today, I made a 75‑footer on the long par 3, 13 from off the green off the front of the green, just a fluke thing and went in.   I missed a bunch of putts the first two days, so I think today I kind of got even.   
   
 Q.   You hit it close today?  
    BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I did.   I didn't make a whole lot of long putts.   Longest putt I made today was the 75 footer, the rest of the day was six, seven feet.   I had one eagle.   Played pretty solid all the way around.   
   
 Q.   A bit of a noise in the crowd‑‑ did you hear it?  
    BRANDT SNEDEKER:   No, no issues there.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the ability to go low; why is it that you can do that?   
    BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I think one thing is when I get the putter going, it takes a lot of pressure off my long game and I know if I hit it on the green, I have a chance to make birdie.   
    And then when I get going low, I know it doesn't happen very often, I'm not afraid to start going low.   I know when you have these days, you need to go as low as you possibly can.   They don't come around very often.   No reason to be nervous or scared.   That's the best you're ever going to be over a ball, so you might as well go after it and shoot as low as you can.   I had fun.   These days happen maybe three times a year, two times a year, so when you have them, you'd better enjoy them.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT