DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 2, 2012
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Fantastic first three days here at the championship.   How important have these days been for you?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   It's been good.   It's been nice to get back to playing golf. 

Q.   We saw you on Thursday before the pro‑am and we had a chat about the Deutsche Bank, the Ryder Cup, the finish last week at the Barclays.   How are you able to clear that out and try to go out and play excellent golf?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I think I can do a great job.   Today I was back in the pack and I knew I had to shoot a low round.   I was able to do that today.   I'm playing really good golf. 

Q.   What a way to finish, a birdie‑eagle finish.   How much fun was that?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   It was a lot of fun.   I needed that.   I've been hitting the ball really well all week, kind of struggling on the greens, kind of weird for me.   Today I went out there and made a lot of putts, which was nice.   If I keep doing what I'm doing, I should be able to shoot something low and get myself up there.

Q.   I've been with you in Greensboro, Barclays, now we're here, and we talked about the Ryder Cup.   How much have you impressed yourself by performing well and what you're doing so far this week?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   It's all about the process.   That's the one thing Davis has been trying to get across to us is get in the process.   I've been doing a great job of that the last two weeks.   Don't worry about what can happen.   I've done a great job of that so far this week, and hopefully I can do that again tomorrow and get something low. 

Q.   Great finish, great round.   Just talk about it. 
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I played really well today.   Didn't really mess up a lot and didn't make any putts early.   I guess I saved them all up for the back nine.   I made a lot of 10, 15 footers on the back nine, and finishing birdie‑eagle got me back in the tournament.   I know I'm going to be a long way back tomorrow, but go out there and shoot something low in the morning, you never know what can happen.

Q.   Are you pleased with what you've shown Davis in the last couple months?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, I'm pleased.   The only thing missing is a win.   I think that's what Davis wants to see me go out there and try to win.   I came close last week, a little frustrated with the way I finished last week, but this week still got a chance tomorrow.   This is kind of where I make my hay, when I'm out of it.   I'm going to try to go out there and shoot something low tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT