THE BARCLAYS
August 25, 2012
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You got off to a great start and birdied four of the first seven holes, tell us about that front nine?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Just got on a run with the putter.   Hit some good shots and made a couple 5‑ and 8‑footers.   Those two par 5s were gettable this morning and didn't make any mistakes early, which is great.   Was on the edge all day.   Got some lucky breaks out there.   
   
 Q.   Nine of 18 greens, I checked that stat twice for you in the third round but nine of 18, all it says is you scrambled great?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, you just can't hit greens out there, I don't care what anybody says, the greens are pretty much unplayable for the most part.   You can't keep the ball‑‑ you can't hit them.   Just really, really tough test.   You're going to miss greens and I got up‑and‑down when I had to which is great, made a bunch of key, par‑saving putts and I felt like I played as good as I possibly could play today and I was very happy to shoot 68.   
   
 Q.   Can you give us more detail on the conditions, because when I was following you, 15, 16, 17, 18, it appeared to get colder and the winds whipped a little stronger?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   It did, and unfortunately I think they got the greens a little too firm, they lost a couple of par 3 greens coming in and 17 is unplayable right now, unfortunately.   It's a great hole but you can't possibly hit one close there, so you have to play to edges of greens, backs of greens and get up‑and‑down from there.   The wind whipping around makes it tough on some holes.   
   
 Q.   The plan for Sunday in the Barclays?   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   You have to put the ball in the fairway.   If you want to play good here, there's no doubt about it, the fairway is crucial.   Obviously keep making those five and 8‑footers because the greens are so baked out, you're going to miss greens whether you want to or not.   The key for everybody is putting it in the fairway.   
   
 Q.   Do you remember what you shot a year ago?   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I shot 60‑something on Saturday, or Sunday I guess.   
   
 Q.   How different are the greens right now versus Thursday?   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Playing a different golf course.   I watched Justin Rose four‑putt No. 8, could not keep the putt short of the hole.   The green was dead.   It was just unfortunate.   A situation where the TOUR staff let the greens get this firm and this too fast‑‑ probably trying to counteract it but it got too hot for them to keep it on the greens.   It's unfortunate because you physically can't hit the greens.   
   
 Q.   17?   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   There's just nothing.   Either leave it short and get up‑and‑down‑‑ or go over and chip back to it.   
   
 Q.   Obviously when you get hot, you can roll in a bunch of birdies; did you think‑‑ you were 4‑under after seven, did you think this was one of those 61s?   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   This golf course does not have a 61 or 62.   You shoot 4‑ or 5‑under par today, you played some really, really good golf.   Like I said I had some chances coming in and I had a good birdie putt on 15 at it and had a good birdie putt on 14, 15, and didn't make any of them.   Can't complain.   I made a couple putts early.   
   
 Q.   Are you thinking about Ryder Cup?   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Not at all.   Completely out of my control.   I was disappointed after the PGA.   To be honest with you, I really don't care.   I try to win every golf tournament I play, and if it happens, great.   If not, move on.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT