THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 2012
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Kind of one of those days where ‑‑ very frustrating.   Played very poorly on about as easy as we're going to see it.   And I'm not happy with it at all, by any means.   
But those two birdies late salvaged what could have been a horrific round into a pretty awful round.   So I've still got a chance tomorrow.   
I've come from behind before, I can do it again tomorrow.   The conditions will be tough, which is good.   So hopefully I can keep it going.  
   
 Q.   Because of the conditions, though, today, is that what makes it even worse, though?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, it's just kind of what I've been doing so well I did so poorly today.   That's why it was frustrating.   I didn't hit the ball very solidly.   I didn't putt the ball very well.   Just kind of one of those days where you shake your head and wonder what you're doing out there, and I hate those.  
   
 Q.   What do you say to yourself to try to calm yourself down because‑‑ do you tell yourself‑‑  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   You know, I realise there's a ton of golf left.   And I've played a lot of great golf to get to this point.   I know it's not far off.   I know it's in there somewhere.   And, you know, I've come back from way more behind than whatever I was at one point today.   And I knew that tomorrow it's going to be a very, very tough golf course.   And as long as you hang in there and keep fighting, you never know what might happen.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, you know, it's just kind of one of those things where you've got to find out if you have some guts or don't.   I could have packed up and gone home today, but I didn't.  
   
 Q.   If there's a consolation, after all of that, is it that you're not out of it?   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, correct.   I still have a chance.   This course is not playing easy.   I showed that today.   If you don't keep the ball in play, you're going to struggle, and I did not do that today.   So never know what‑‑ we've only got one guy between me, Scott ‑‑ me and Tiger, I guess, are there, and Scottie is right there.   So Scottie plays poorly tomorrow, everybody is right back in it.   So I have to keep my head up and keep plugging along.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about what Adam did out there?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   He played great.   He really did.   Expected nothing less from Adam today.   He played fantastic from tee‑to‑green.   He's been that kind of player for a long time.   And I was very impressed; he didn't show a whole lot of weaknesses today.   So it was kind of a clinic out there for the majority of the round.  
   
 Q.   We talked several times about your demeanor being pretty even keel.   How does that help under these circumstances?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   A lot.   I could have easily turned a 3‑over round into a 7‑ or 8‑over round, if I wasn't still fighting, still hanging in there.   
   
 Q.   Just talk about your first bogey, short putt.   What did you see?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, you know, it was just the first poor putt I really hit all week.   I hit a little push.   I had it inside right, it was probably right center, and pushed it outside the hole and it never moved.   It was kind of unfortunate because I hit everything where I wanted to up to that point.   And hit a really good 6‑iron in there and thought it was going to be perfect and it just came up short.   And then I found out why these bunkers are so tough.   I hit a few of them today and they're not very much fun.  
   
 Q.   It was a very nice hole where you made your first bunker.   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, it's just one of those bad breaks.   You're going to get those.   Of course in 72 holes I hadn't had one yet.   I knew you were going to get those.   I've seen everybody else I played with this week had them.   And I was fortunate enough to get my first one today.   So hopefully got it out of the way and can play some good golf after that.   
   
 Q.   What did you do to adjust with your swing coming down the stretch?   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I felt I was swinging good all day, even though the last couple of holes I fought it, just trying to keep it somewhat in play and not try anything crazy, not trying to hit any shots that I didn't feel comfortable hitting.   
And then the putter is what really let me down.   The putter, I had some chances today to get some momentum going and I kept missing some putts.   And you do that, you're not going to play well around here.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT