VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 10, 2018
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Brandt, the experience today playing with Tiger.  You had a great day.  Just the vibe out there must have been insane.
BRANDT SNEDEKER: It was great.  I can confirm he's back, the roars are back.  It's fun to hear the crowd going crazy again and realize how excited we are in having him back out here and playing the way he is.  He's playing great.
I was able to feed off a lot of energy today.  That's probably why I played so good.  Get me to focus real hard on every shot and did a good job of that today.  Do it again tomorrow, probably be crazier tomorrow.
Q. Safe for you to be back in contention?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Feels great.  My golf came felt good.  Felt good to get under serious pressure.  Short game is in good sted.  Lot of quality shots.  Tomorrow should be a lot of fun.
Q. Everybody keeps talking about they rather play behind Tiger than in front of him.  You got to play with him.  Did that help you today being in the middle of the craziness?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I don't know if there's a bad place to be with Tiger.  Playing with him is great because he's very respectful, we have a great time together and we feed off each other today.
Made some putts.  Great to get some laughing back and forth and smiling and enjoying being around.  In front of him can be tough because people running a ahead trying to get a view.  Fun to have him back and playing great and crowd out there supporting him, crazy.  Loud as I've heard it in a long time.  Be even bigger tomorrow.
Q. What is the secret to performing well with all the distractions that goes with playing with Tiger?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: You almost have to realize nobody is out there to watch you play and get into your own little world and enjoy the moment, enjoy what you're doing.
I couldn't have fun today, I need to find another job.  Playing with Tiger Woods in the second to last group at Tampa and the crowd going crazy, both playing good, it's fun doing.  It's tough to be playing bad.  When you're playing good, it's fine.
Q. You had the best seat for his comeback of anyone here.
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yes.
Q. What is that like watching his progression?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: As I said, at Honda that was his new baseline and it's better since Honda.  Today he putted a little bit off compared to what I saw at Honda but he drove it way better and I don't see it going backwards from here, only going to get better.
Q. Your own aspirations as far as getting into the Masters, where do you stand with that?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I got to win.  Win tomorrow.  I got one goal tomorrow and that's to go out there and play as good as I possibly can and see if that stacks up at the end of the day.
My game is good enough, I'm confident enough, I'm back to feeling the way I did four, five years ago.  I'm excited about what tomorrow holds.
Q. What's going through your head when he chips in?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I started smiling.  I was laughing.  It's just him to a tee.  I see him do stuff like that, let's you know he's back and enjoying and having fun.  Just kind of vintage Tiger.
I putted really good today.  I missed a few short ones but rolled it really good and kept myself in it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT