THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2012
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   It was kind of a shaky day off the tee and made a lot of good iron shots and made some putts when I needed to.   Those are the easy days out here.   Had a lot of 25‑ to 45‑footers for birdie, and luckily my putting has been great the last six weeks and held up great today, so kind of have a good game plan for the rest of the week and what to do and very happy to be started in this way, for sure.  
   
 Q.   Stricker was talking about how this is American style golf today.   The links conditions were good?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Correct.   We had a little wind early on the front nine, but it kind of calmed down the second half.   That's the best Americans are going to see over here, so I think that's why you see a few of us playing pretty well.   But we're going to have to buckle down, and I'm sure it will show its teeth.   I got a few good breaks out there today, so I've got to tighten up my driving a little bit.   But got a good leg up on the field with today's round for sure.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, I did.   I could have played probably two weeks earlier than I did, I made sure I took a couple of extra weeks off and had a cracked rib all the way through, just kind of a fluke thing.   I did it coughing, of all things.   Just had a real bad cough about 10 days and kind of eventually showed up at the Memorial on the weekend.   I was in good shape at the Memorial and had to withdraw.   
I had to try to get ready for the U.S. Open 10 days later.   And took a bunch of shots for it and all kinds of therapy, and didn't heal fast enough.   So after that was not going to happen, I made sure I took plenty of time and I played Greenbrier.   I played the week before with no problem in DC.   Now I feel like I made the right move.   I feel like my game is in good shape.   
I had one tournament to get ready for over here, which is Greenbrier, to see what I needed to work on.   Came over here, and I've got a lot of tournaments coming up.   I feel like my game is kind of going in the right direction.  
   
 Q.   You haven't had much success in The Open.   Did you take a little different attitude?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Definitely.   I go at a lot of pins.   I make a lot of birdies, and over here you cannot do that.   The greens are just too firm.   And you get stuck with too many bad shots.   Today I'm trying to hit every fat side of the green there is, just trying to hit at the complete opposite side to where the pin is.   I realise I'm a great putter and I like my chances when the putter is in my hand, so let's do that as much as I can.   I did a great job of that today.  
   
 Q.   The bottom line is you've really learned how to play British Open style golf?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   We'll see.   We haven't played British Open style golf yet.   Tomorrow or the next day we'll find out.   But that's kind of what I'm going to try to do.   Trying to give yourself a chance to make birdies and pars on every hole is the right thing to do over here.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I played British Amateur over here.   That was at Prestwick, and I didn't make match play.   I played obviously three British Opens and no success whatsoever.   Just kind of struggled over here.   I think flighting my ball down in the wind or reading the greens.   I told everybody this is the best I've ever seen the greens in a British Open for me because they seem like American greens.   They roll very good because of all the weather they've had over here.   The grass is perfect.   This is the best feel I've had for the greens and the speed of the greens since I've been over here, so I knew this was going to be good week on the greens for me, just the matter if the long game will try to cooperate.  
   
 Q.   There was a little rain tonight.   How did that affect things?   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Well, the course is soft as it is right now.   You saw a bunch of guys probably leave it short today because we're so used to seeing the ball bounce over here.   I think tomorrow the scores will be low again if it's wet and soft and not a lot of wind.   Guys are pretty good out here at figuring out how to play a golf course when there's not a lot of balls running sideways on you affecting it.  
   
 Q.   Is it nice to play a nice round?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, exactly.   I think any time you get a good one going you want to keep it going.   You hate to sit around and wait all day tomorrow.   I get to go home and get about eight hours of sleep and come back in the morning and do it again.   At least I will hopefully watch some guys play in the afternoon tomorrow.   It should be a good day.   I'm excited with where I am.   I'm looking forward to seeing what the weekend holds.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   You know, it's funny, probably the only par‑4 I can drive over here.   I actually hit a hole‑in‑one yesterday, which was just crazy.   Complete waste of a great shot because it does me no good in a practice round.   Today I laid up and made a great birdie there.   It's a great short par‑4 hole because it's a blind shot off the tee so you can miss the fairway pretty easily there.   And if you want to go with a driver there's a chance to make a 2 there, for sure, but there's also a chance to make a 5 really easily.   It puts some excitement in the last three or four holes there for sure.  
   
 Q.   You know Seve hit it in that crazy ‑‑  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   ‑‑ car park over there, yeah.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I think‑‑ I definitely think whoever wins this tournament is going to play that hole pretty significantly under par, two or three under par, because it's one of the few holes you can get on the back nine.   The back nine plays so tough.   If somebody plays that hole over par for the week and wins the tournament, I'll be shocked.   You've got to play that hole under par, for sure.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I'd say if there's any kind of help, I'd say 90 percent of the guys are going just because it's the only chance you have a chance.   If you get up anywhere on the greenside bunkers, you're fine.   You can get up‑and‑down for birdie.   Get some help out there.   Today there was no wind helping, I couldn't get there, so I laid up.   Still a pretty easy wedge shot in there, but you've just got to kind of pick your spots around here.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yes, it was pretty tough to end that way because it's such a good putt.   To see it spin out on me was kind of unfortunate.   I gave myself a great look at it from where I was in the fairway, and I'll take it and I'll keep doing that.   Keep hitting the holes, I know they will go in eventually, so I'm not too worried about it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT