THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE INSURANCE
May 31, 2012
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  BRANDT SNEDEKER:   You know, I had a lot of good looks at birdies today.   I played the par‑5s really well on the back nine, and the front nine I kind of left some out there on the front nine.   I drove the ball pretty much in play all day and when I didn't, I was able to get back in play pretty quickly and hit a lot of good solid iron shots and making putts.   It was a nice way to play today for sure.  
   
 Q.   How were the conditions?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   It was tough this afternoon.   Even though there's some low scores this afternoon, the wind was really swirling around a lot.   You'd have some holes where the wind would blow at you, do a 180‑degree turn on you, by the time you get your tee shot and second shot.   It was really tough to pull a club and get something close.   
But the greens were rolling so nice that if you did hit a green, you got a really good look at birdie.   The course isn't playing real long because it's so firm right now.   So it's giving everybody ‑‑ everybody around here has a really good shot at making a lot of birdies.  
   
 Q.   The one thing that was working particularly well for you?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   No, I think putting the ball in play off the tee.   Really, I hit two bad tee shots today all day.   When you do that around here you're really going to put yourself in a lot of good birdie opportunities, and I was able to do that.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Correct, yeah.   It's a long week.   We've got a lot more holes to play, a lot more birdies need to be made, but definitely a good start.  
   
 Q.   What were your impressions ofDustin Johnson today?   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   He didn't look as rusty as I expected him to.   His short game was actually really sharp.   He's not far off.   Dustin is a huge talent, so whenever he's off, he doesn't even really look like he's off.   
He played pretty well today, considering his first round back in a while.   The short game looked really sharp, so that was good to see.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT