VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
May 19, 2012
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Settling in nicely?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   It's been an interesting first couple of days to say the least.   Just survive is what you're trying to do, and it's going to be a tough match this afternoon whoever I play, might be playing Nicolas.   He's been playing well and so that's going to be a tough one.   But it's fun out here.   
   
 Q.   Coming in, saying it's tough and not playing your best; is it the conditions?   The course?   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, I think the conditions are tough.   The course is definitely very tough, especially off the tees.   If you're not driving the ball well you're going to have some problems around here, and the greens are a little slower and the wind, and caught the guys for a loop so still getting adjusted to those.   
The tournament that was firm and fast the first round is becoming the opposite this afternoon.   Need to make some adjustments, it's going to be windy and blustery.   
   
 Q.   It's been quite an adventure for you this week.   We heard about your clubs going missing on the journey here, but I was reading today about another incident on the plane coming over.   Tell us about that.   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   We were flying from Miami to Madrid, and a passenger had a heart attack on the plane and we had to take an emergency landing and we ended up in the Azores.   We were there for four hours in the runway.   Luckily the situation got taken care of and he got taken to a hospital.   We spent a lot of time there.   
So, it was a lot of time there; turned an eight‑hour flight into about 12‑ or 13‑hour flight.   Hopefully the passenger is okay but when you travel like that‑‑ a lot happened this week.   
   
 Q.   Seems to be a testament to your temper that you cope with all of that.   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   It's part of life.   You run into stuff like that and you can either be upset about it or brush it off your shoulder.   You're going to have stuff happen like that.   There's just no way around it.   I'm not a guy that gets too emotional about that kind of stuff.     Happy to be here, it's a beautiful place, and they are taking such great care of us this week and well worth the trip over here.   
   
 Q.   How was the match this morning with Camilo?   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   We survived and that's what you're trying to do today. Got a match this afternoon, get a few things squared away and hopefully I have a pretty good chance about it.   
   
 Q.   How good do you know Nicolas Colsaerts?   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I know he hits it a long way and really nice kid.   He's playing some great golf right now and he'll be a tough match for sure.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT