MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 7, 2012
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Good round.   Generally what came around today? 
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Putting.   I feel like the first two days I hit the ball pretty similar as I did today but I struggled with the putter.   I missed a lot of five to ten footers, which you have got to make around here if you want to play well.   Today I made those putts. 
Besides the last hole I played pretty flawlessly. 

Q.   How did 10 today compare to the first few rounds?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   A few gettable ones.   For sure, par 5s, you can get them in and do something special.   That being said I feel like it's 6, 6 and 6.   They give you six good ones that you can't go after, 6 okay, and 6 pretty easy ones.   There's a couple that you can use bowls to get into and get close. 
For the most part, 13 today was a really tough pin, back left. 
14 is a little bowl pin, gives you an easy one. 
15 was one of the hardest pins on the green. 
So they give you some tough ones for sure. 

Q.   Tell us about your birdies today. 
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I birdied 2, made a good up‑and‑down just short of the green on 2. 
Then 3, I hit a gap wedge to about 2 feet and made a good birdie there. 
And then I birdied ‑‑ I turned at 2 under and then I birdied 13 and hit it about five feet for eagle and missed it. 
And then 15, I got up‑and‑down from over the right of the green, made a good up‑and‑down there, made about a six or eight footer for birdie. 
16, I hit an 8 iron in there about eight feet above the hole, made a birdie there, and then 18 kind of to the greenside bunker and didn't get up‑and‑down. 

Q.   What's your goal for tomorrow now that you know what you can do around here in these conditions?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I think 2 or 3 under on the front nine.   I'm going to give myself a shouting chance on the back nine, go out and be aggressive on the back nine, the two par 5s, maybe post a 6 or 7 under par tomorrow and try to hit some pressure on those guys that will be playing later in the day.

Q.   Do you have a number in mind? 
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I will try to shoot 5 under par.   Hopefully somebody ‑‑ I was thinking somebody might be at 7 or 8 by the end of the day.   6 back is not easy, but it's doable around here.   So that's kind of what I'm hoping for at the end of the day.

Q.   You are kind of taking a bite out of the par 5s.   You had it going there?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Today I had nothing to lose from where I was.   I was so far back, I needed to be aggressive and go after the par 5s.   I had some chances at eagle, but wasn't able to make them work out.   It was definitely a day to be aggressive for me.

Q.   Somebody is doing a story about how No. 10 plays this week.   How did you attack it?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I hit 3 wood every day off the tee.   I hit it right every day.   Turn the corner, had anywhere from 5 iron to 7 iron then.   It's a tough hole.   It's one of those holes, they give you one pin that's gettable on the left side of the green, that was yesterday, and the rest of the pins you are just trying to hold on and get par.

Q.   Is it drying out at all?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   It wasn't this morning.   I think it will this afternoon.   17 green is getting really, really firm.   And fairways are still soft, but the greens are starting to get a little bit of a bite to them for sure.

Q.   Surprising it stayed soft this long? 
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I think so, yeah.   I definitely had some mud balls.   Graeme had some mud balls today.   Part of life around here.   I don't care how dry it is, you always get a couple of them around here just because of the way they cut the fairways.   You are going to get a little bit of mud that picks up on them.   But it won't be as bad as it has been in the last days. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT