VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 9, 2018
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Good playing, 68.  Pretty nice.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Thank you.   
 Q.  Always nice to have Brandt join us.  
 Get a look at yesterday's card.  First of all, a 70 with four birdies and three bogies.  Obviously different.  Today a 68, one bogey.  Was it improved condition or did you play better?   
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Little bit of both.  I made some more putts today which is nice.  I got a little overaggressive.  Swinging pretty good, trying to push it when I shouldn't have.  Caused me a couple of bogies.  Realize this golf course is not going to yield a 63 or 62.  Take your opportunities and get them and take advantage of them.  Played the same as yesterday, just was able to obviously not make a couple of mistakes.   
 Q.  You played here eight times before.  How valuable is all that experience because it's a very strategic course?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: It is especially in windy conditions likes this.  There's lots of little things about this hole plays a little bit more into the wind or little bit more downwind.  Certain spots around here you cannot miss it.  Miss it there, it's a guaranteed bogey.   
Always keeping that in the back of your mind.  I know where the pin is, leave it over here, give yourself a chance.   
 Q.  You were saying yesterday your results have not caught up with the way you feel you're playing.  You feel you're playing the best you have in four, five years.  What's behind that feeling?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Ball-striking been really consistent day-to-day.  Not having those bad days anymore.  My short game is as good as it's ever been.  Physically I feel great, probably the best shape I've been in in two years.   
All of this is adding up to me why am I not on top of leaderboards?  You add frustration to that when you're expected to play well and not getting out of it.  It's tough to stay patient.  I've done a great job this week, kind of take how I realize I'm playing good, take the result for what it is, get out of my own way and have some fun.   
 Q.  Currently 74th in the World Rankings.  You have to improve to get into the Match Play and the Masters.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Had that, really tried to make a push into the Top 50.  Didn't work out.  Now I need to play good golf.   
I'm not really thinking too much about it.  Play good golf it will take care of itself.  I don't need to add more pressure.   
 Q.  Brand, two good days for you, today especially, you have to be very pleased.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I'm playing really well.  I've been playing this way or awhile.  For whatever reason the results haven't been there.   
Probably a little bit of pushing too hard and nice to kind of get out of my way for a couple days.  Have tough conditions to make me do it.  Not get overly aggressive.  Been rolling it great, made some good, long putts today, kind of helped out.  Saved a few holes when I needed to.   
 Q.  Iron play seems to be very good.  That was a great shot out of the trees at 16.  17, the tee shot was excellent.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Put some new shafts in my irons, playing the same irons for five years, put some new shafts in.  Felt like it was time to tighten stuff up.  Wasn't coming off where I was looking.  The shafts so far, kind of know the distance right away when I put them in.  So far so good.  Hopping they keep hanging in.  I get more birdie opportunities around here the way I roll it.   
 Q.  You could be playing with Tiger.  Sounds like a lot of fun.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: It is.  I played with Tiger seems like about every time I've been out this year.  Be great to see him in the last -- on a weekend.   
Yeah, I'm excited about the way I'm playing.  It's fun to be there when you know you're playing well and give yourself opportunities to be successful.  The weather looks better for the weekend.  Should be a tough test of golf so it will be a lot of fun to see where my game stacks up.   
 Q.  You got to be happy you're healthy.  Swinging easy, no aches and pains.  That's got to be a big plus.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I was telling them over there, probably the best I felt in five years physically and best golf swing, four, five years.  Still chipping and putting the way I always had.  Been expecting some things for awhile.  Whatever reason hasn't happened.  Hopefully this weekend will be the start of it.  Tend to be a special year.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT