FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 29, 2012
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JOE CHEMYCZ:   Tied for the low round of the day for Brandt Snedeker.   Can you just talk about Sunday and putting some heat on Kyle early?   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, I knew I needed to shoot something low, and kind of got off to a little bit of a slow start, and made some birdies around the turn to get things kicking into gear.   But I just kind of was too far back.   Kyle had too big a lead.   Uh‑oh.   
   
 Q.   You're not done yet.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   That's three and four, he's hitting five.   How many shot lead does he have?   
   
 Q.   He's got three right now.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   We better do this quickly then.   I got to get to the putting green in case something happens.   But I did really well.   Just that one hiccup on 17 that was just, I hit a pretty good tee shot.   Kind of went a little the left and had a little knuckleball happen on me.   Besides that, I played great.  
   
 Q.   As you watch that, is it hard not to think about those few that you let get away?   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Oh, for sure.   I missed a tap‑in yesterday and kind of rushed it to hit one in.   That would make that a lot different right now.   So that's part of golf though.   
You just can't try to look back on what happened.   Got to keep looking forward.   But for sure, if he ends up winning by one, that one putt is the difference.   So that will be tough to swallow.  
   
 Q.   When did you think you had a chance?   Was there a time?   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I thought when I birdied that par‑5 on the back nine off 13.   I thought if I made a couple birdies coming in, if I could get to 18, I thought I had a good chance to put some pressure on him.   He'd only have to shoot even par for the day, which I thought wouldn't be that bad a round.   So that was my number, my target set.   Still had a chance with birdie putt on 16, 17 and then 17 kind of squashed that.  
   
 Q.   Were you watching the board today?   Did you know?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   No, I don't look at scoreboards on Sundays.  
   
 Q.   What is it about this golf course that you like so much?   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I don't know.   I played good here my rookie year, and I've loved coming back.   The weather is always fantastic.   The golf course is great.   I really love the greens.   The greens were in great shape this week.   They get a little bumpy, which I enjoy.   Makes you focus in on your line.   You get the ball on a good line.   
I just love being here.   It's amazing how much more relaxed you are when you like being somewhere.  
   
 Q.   Would you like to give us commentary on this as it's going along?   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I don't know where he has to drop it.   I think there's a ball drop there.  
   
 Q.   Having gone through that to try to get your first win, how hard is that?   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   He cannot feel too good right now.   He was kind of on cruise control.   To have that happen right there, you don't wish that on anybody.   He's trying to get his first win.   His nerves are going crazy, and he hit a pretty good shot.   
So it will be interesting to see how he finishes it off.   For my sake, hopefully are, he doesn't.  
   
 Q.   What is going through your mind right now?   Do you feel like you need to get back out there?   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, depending on where he hit this is, I'm going to go to the putting green.  
   
 Q.   Hip okay?   Any problems?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   No, hip feels great.  
   
 Q.   We'll watch this one shot and go from there?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT