DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 5, 2011
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Golf course got tough on the way home, didn't it?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: It did. I played a really good front nine, then kind of had about five, six holes where my rhythm got a little bit off. I was able to hang in there pretty good through that stretch but made a few too many bogeys. But then birdieing 17 and 18, I kind of hung in there really, really strong all day, and to do that was really special.  
  
  Q. You leaned on the putter, and it responded, 24 putts today.   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, I hadn't putted very good at all, up to my standards at least, from the five- to eight-foot range, and really worked on it hard last night and came out today and made a lot of those putts that you need to make the keep rounds going, especially when the wind is blowing like this.  
  
  Q. And you should have a lot of confidence for the rest of the Playoffs?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I should, yeah. I'm going to sit around here and hopefully -- I don't wish anything bad on the guys coming in, but I'm going to wait and hopefully something happens. So I'll be around here waiting and looking forward to Chicago.  
  
  Q. Did you have a number in mind that you needed to get into the house with?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I thought 15 would be a good number, I really did. I turned at 14, and I thought, you know, the back nine is playing tough, 15 or 16, somewhere in there, I liked my chances. Just made a few too many mistakes on the back nine.  
  
  Q. How much is the wind a factor?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: You know, a huge factor. I hit some good shots coming in, especially on 16. I hit -- I saw Rickie hit a 7-iron, really pretty shot, come up short of the green and I pulled a little 6-iron out and I hit it right at the pin and it flew the green. Just a different wind gust. So it made it tough to pull a club all day, made it tough to hit fairways. This course is not a course you can play out of the rough. I found that out on the back nine. Just made it really, really tough and trying on your patience all day.  
  
  Q. Just comment on tying the course record on the front nine.   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Just got off to a great start, hit it close on 1 and 2, and before I knew it made a few putts and turned into a great front nine and really thought I could shoot something really special on the back but wasn't able to do it. Especially to do it on a day like this when it was playing real tough was real special.   
  
  Q. I don't know if you were watching the leaderboard, but shooting 6-under and all of a sudden Donald and Simpson, you weren't even gaining any ground on those guys.   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, I didn't look at a leaderboard all day. I know there's a lot of good players behind me. I knew I had to shoot something low -- I should say in front of me, so I knew I had to shoot something low to make them think about it a little bit. We'll see what happens.   
  
  Q. Last year you were kind of in the same position. Do you like this golf course?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, I love the golf course. The golf course is in fantastic shape and really sets up well for me, and the greens are rolling as good as any that we play all year, so it makes it a lot of fun for me to putt. It was a great week.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT