TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 25, 2017
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. We just heard from Rory, another guy who put together a heck of a Sunday, a 64 to tie the low round of the day.  Brandt, how did you put it together?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I've been playing this way all week, just for whatever reason it just didn't seem to work out.  I either putted bad one day or got some bad breaks, whatever it was.  Finally had some good breaks today, got a couple chip-ins which finally got the round going, and made some putts, which was a nice way to finish the day off.  So it's a good finish to the week.
Obviously not where I wanted to finish because I felt like I was playing this well all week, but good way to cap off and get some momentum going.
Q. How about the back nine, those four birdies in a row, what led to that charge?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I hit a great shot on 11, hit a great putt, missed it.  I felt okay, I kind of felt like I left a lot out there at that point.  Got lucky on 12 and chipped one in, and that kind of got the momentum going.  Got up-and-down on 13, had a great Putt on 14 after driving into the divot.  15 I made up-and-down on the bunker.  So got some momentum going there.  Unfortunately, gave one back on 16.  But four in a row you never want to complain about.  It's a great way to end the day.
Q. You have a top 10 here, three top 25 finishes.  You clearly like playing here.  What do you take away from today?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: What could have been.  I wish there was another day.  I played really well this week, and for whatever reason things just didn't seem to go my way.  That's the way it is out here.  It's hard to explain to people at home.  They don't understand it.  A couple bounces here or there, couple shots in between numbers or a divot in the wrong time, whatever it may be, it kind of costs you throughout the course of the week.
I know I've been playing better this year than I have the last four or five years.  But for whatever reason the results haven't been there.  But it's been hard staying patient knowing the good stuff's just right around the corner.  So hopefully it's going to spark some good golf coming up.
Q. That was an impressive round.  Fun to watch that 64.  Thanks for the time?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Thank you.
Q. So 64 on Sunday and a great run on the back nine, four birdies in a row there?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, it was good.  I've been playing well all day, and kind of missed some birdie putts on the front nine.  Could have gotten really low.  Felt like after I missed a short one on 11 I kind of let the day go by and then turned a really good round into a mediocre round.  On the next hole I chip one in the hole and make three birdies in a row and make four in a row to shoot 64 today.
Played pretty well today.  Played better actually a couple other days this week, just didn't get the scores to show for it.  So little frustrating, but that's the way it is out here.  At least I've got a good way to finish the week.
Q. Give us an idea of the conditions the guys are going to face as the day goes on?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, it's starting to get a firmer out there on the back nine, obviously.  The course is in absolutely pristine shape, so the balls are doing what they're supposed to be doing on the greens.  The fairways are kind of shrinking down a little bit today because the ball's starting to run a little bit more.
What makes this place so tough is the wind swirls so much on that back nine; you just really never know which direction it's coming from.  When you have short shots and short wedges into the holes, it's so hard to be precise.  That's why you see so few guys getting close and that's why there are a bunch of wedges on the back nine.
So the pin positions are tucked.  It's going to be tough to make some birdies, but they're there if you hit some quality shots and give yourself some putts at it.
Q. How about playing in front of these fans here at Cromwell, Connecticut at TPC River Highlands?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: They're unbelievable.  You know, getting here on Wednesday and seeing the crowd turn out for the Pro-Am, and then it will only increase from there.  I've seen Thursday, Friday, Saturday, I think having the field we have this week makes a big difference.  But every day the fans here, it's been this way since I've been coming here.  It's unbelievable.  To see them come out more so this year, Jordan, Jason, Rory, and all these guys that decided to play this year, it's kind of credit to what they think about the tournament and the course here on the PGA TOUR.
But it's also for the fans for how much they showed up and respond to that.  So it's been a fun week for us, special week for us, and can't thank Travelers enough for having us.
Q. What will played so well for you today?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Probably get out of my own way.  I feel like I've been playing that well all week and for whatever reason the putts weren't going in or hitting a bad shot at the wrong time and not able to capitalize on my good ones.  Today I had one of those days where got off to a great start, chipped in on the first hole and that kind of got my mind in the right place.
Hit a bunch of great shots.  Almost hit a hole in one on No. 5, so we have three kick ins in the first nine holes it's kind of hard not to turn it into a good round, which I didn't have.  Just exciting to build on this for coming weeks, but more importantly, it was good to end this week on the right note.
Q. What took so long to kick in?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I have no idea.  I mean, I felt like I got here on Monday or Tuesday morning, and felt like I should win the golf tournament.  Should be up there with a chance to win.  The way I played last week at the U.S. Open, knowing I had to be better this week.  For whatever reason, the first day nothing happened.  Played good, just seemed like I missed a putt here or there, or left the shot in the wrong spot or whatever it may be.  Round two, I played an unbelievable round of golf.  Shot 3-under par (inaudible) kind of the way it goes.  I go from a week last week where the U.S. Open, I made everything I looked at and the (inaudible).
So, frustrating.  When I figure it out, I'll probably be old and dead.  But I don't think it's going to happen anytime soon.  I just don't understand how it can go so wrong and so right so quick.
Q. You've been here several times, obviously, and in speaking with McIlroy a little while ago, I asked him based on your experience this week, was it one where you see yourself coming back?  He didn't hesitate.  Have you seen or do you feel that or this just keeps getting bigger and better?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: It does, you know.  You can't applaud Travelers enough for the time, energy, effort they put in to making this a first-class event.  Then, on top of that, the fans here make you feel like you're at home.  I mean, they do a great job of welcoming you with open arms.  They're very knowledgeable, great fans, and they come out in droves.  When you have that coupled with a tournament host that wants you to have a great time while you're here, a fun golf course to play.
Every guy will tell you to a tee they love playing this golf course because so much can happen.  You can play a mediocre round of golf, and if you birdie the last five here very easily and turn it into a great day and vice versa.  You can get a great round going and the last holes can jump up and bite you.
As players we love that thrill and excitement knowing quality shots get rewarded down the stretch, and bad shots get penalized down the stretch.  That's what makes this place so special.  It's been a mainstay on TOUR for a long time.  It's fun to see it grow and get the respect it finally deserves.
Q. Today after round 4, did you notify any mistakes?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Mistakes, yeah.  You're always good to look back on the week to see what's gone right and what's gone wrong.  There are some poor club choices, poor thought processes and some that cost me a lot more than I probably realize right this second.  But that's part of golf.  When we get down to the week and we finish up and see what could have been.  I'll hit the drawing board and try to figure it out for next time.
Q. You played with Jordan the first couple days.  63 the first he time he sees it.  Assessing what he sees, what do you think?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: The golf course is tailer made for him.  He's somebody that's undoubtedly the best wedge player, I think, in the world.  If you give him nine wedges on the golf course, he's going to have a lot of birdie opportunities if he's driving it somewhat well.  I played with him the first two days, and he was driving it really well.
He always is and will always be a great iron player, so this course falls right into his strengths when he's driving it well, and he's driving it well right now.  Even though he's only got a one shot lead, if he was putting the way Rory putts, I'd say he has a great first round, the last two rounds he missed a lot of five and six-footers and could have had a lot more.
That's the kind of player he is.  He's a world class player for a reason.  You put him on a golf course like this where you have to be precise off the tee, and wedge play is extremely important, it's right up his alley.
Q. What is your schedule next?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I'll be playing the British Open, so I've got three weeks off.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT