THE BARCLAYS
August 27, 2011
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 61, talk about a pretty important day, not only for this tournament, but for the n ext five weeks.   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: FedExCup is what we're here for. It's a huge event and to come out and play well in the first leg of it is big for confidence and great for momentum and gives you a good chance going into THE TOUR Championship and rest of the tournaments to have a chance of winning it, which is why we are all here.  
  
  Q. Just how vulnerable was the course today, or all week, really?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: It's been tough, just because they had to play the ball up every day because of the rain, and the greens have been relatively soft. It's such a great golf course, everybody has been raving about, you know, if this place played firm and fast how much fun it would be to play because it would be so tough.   
 It's unfortunate it had to play this soft, but still, that being said, there's a lot of tough shots out there, you can make a lot of birdies if you weren't placing your ball in the right positions, you'll make bogeys, as well.  
 Starting out 6-under after 7 is a pretty good start. So I had a pretty good idea that I had a chance of shooting something pretty good as long as I didn't mess it up. I was swinging great at it and rolling it great, and just knew if I kept giving myself chances, that I would have a good chance out there. And I did that coming down the stretch and I'm really happy the way I finished it out, birdieing 16 and hit a great shot on 16 and just didn't get away it, and 18 making birdie is huge, a lot of fun out there.  
  
  Q. Did 59 ever cross your mind?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Oh, yeah. I had the chance at San Diego my rookie year when I was 10-under through ten, and I kind of mess that had one up and didn't make any birdies, and today I knew I had a chance and bogeyed a hole on the back nine. But it was still a lot of fun. It always crosses your mind because you want to shoot it. It's a lot of fun.  
  
  Q. About when, when you were 6-under through 7?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I birdied 10; 7 through ten, and if I make five more, three par 5s left and a drivable par 4, so a lot of good stuff could happen. I thought, I liked my chances at that point.  
  
  Q. Was that on the North Course at Torrey?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, it was.   
  
  Q. Did you think at one point that you could get -- what you were doing could get you in contention?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I knew they were going to make birdie so I knew I had to go. I thought my best opportunity, if I got to 18-under par which would have been 59, I thought then on the outside, if some rain and some wind came in that didn't blow, that I might have an outside chance at it.  
 But this course is just so soft, you get at every pin, that you can go out there and shoot a low one.  
  
  Q. Remarkable that someone can shoot 20-under and lose?   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: It really. Is it's funny, we played on the Pro-Am, everybody thought, you know, this course isn't a pushover. It might be relatively short, but there's a lot of tough pins out there and the rough is thick and if you're not driving it well it can be tough and all of a sudden you see everybody shooting at every pin and the rain softened it up more. Played different than we normally would.  
  
  Q. Are you staying locally?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I'm getting out of here right now. I'm flying straight -- going straight to the airport right now and leaving and trying to get out of here before the storm.  
  
  Q. When do you get to Boston?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Probably Wednesday or Thursday depending what's going on there.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT