WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 4, 2011
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You've got to be happy with the round today. Just talk about the high points. 
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, you know, I drove the ball fantastic today. The course is playing about as easy as we're going to see it with soft fairways and soft greens pretty much on every hole, so I had a lot of good looks at birdie and a few holes I did put myself in trouble I got out of it pretty quick and made some good par saves. 
 All in all it was a fun day and got my good round score, which you need to do on these conditions and I'm sure it's only going to get tougher from here.

 Q. It's been three years since you've been here. Did you feel more comfortable this time around even though it's been quite a gap since your last time?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Definitely. I think last time I was here I got a little -- had a slow start and got a little frustrated. You've got to realize there's a lot of golf out there. This golf course even though there will be some low scores today, probably 8-, 9-, 10-under par is going to win this thing at the end of the week, so just kind of one of those things where you need to hang in there. And even if you don't have a great day today, you've still got plenty of golf holes to get back. I feel a lot more comfortable today than I did last time around here.

 Q. How much easier did it play today than normal?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Well, it played really easy today, comparatively speaking for golf course. The fairways played really wide because they were soft. The rough wasn't -- it's penal but it's not awful. And the greens are soft, so even if you hit it in the rough and you've got a decent lie, you can stop it on the greens. It was very, very playable today if you put the ball in the right positions.

 Q. You said it was only going to get tougher as the week goes along. For your game, what's going to be the key for you to hang on the rest of the week?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I'm just going to keep driving the ball in the fairway. I think everybody is going to be the same way. You cannot play this course out of the rough; there's just no way. You might get by with one or two days of bad driving, but over four days you've got to put the ball in the fairway. So I think that'll be the big key going into the weekend.

 Q. Have you played Atlanta Athletic Club?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I have not, but I've heard it's -- the greens are very, very fast from what I've heard, very, very fast. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT