U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 17, 2011
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Just talk about your round. 
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I played fantastic. Just left a couple shots out there unfortunately, just kind of one of those days where I -- I've been driving the ball great, so that was obviously a key today. But got a lot of work to do. Obviously if somebody -- I'm nine back at this point or more than that maybe, I don't know. But just need to kind of keep doing what I'm doing, keep my head down and hopefully get some putts to go in.

 Q. You're within -- as close to the lead as anyone. To have a guy out there like that, is there a danger of that getting into your head?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Not at all. He's really not a thought in my mind at all. If he keeps playing the way he's playing we're all playing for second place. That many shot lead going into the weekend if he keeps playing the way he's playing it's going to be impossible to catch him. You're trying to shoot the lowest number you can. I personally won't look at the leaderboard all weekend because there's no point. Just try to shoot as good as I can and find out how it stacks up on Sunday.

 Q. Is it pretty amazing what he's done so far? 
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, I mean, I look back at my first two rounds and think if I had played my best golf I could be at 7- or 8-under par max and he would have beat me by four, and I'm sure he left some out there at some point. He's that kind of talent. Everybody knows it. It's great to see him do that, especially on the heels of the Masters. I hope he can kind of keep it going for the weekend. As a fan of golf I'd love to see him win this week. As a competitor I'd love to see myself win. We'll see how it goes.

 Q. Something about the U.S. Open; you've been on the leaderboard a lot the last three or four years. 
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, I love this kind of setup. I love tough golf courses. I love where par is rewarded and not hurt in a sense. This golf course is set up perfectly for that. I love being in these kind of competitions. 

 Q. What is it that Rory does? What is it you think he does that enables him to go out and put up a score like that? 
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I think everybody would agree he's probably got more talent in his pinky than I have in my whole body. He is unbelievably talented. I don't know how old he is, 21, 22, shooting those kind of numbers and swinging the golf club the way he does and hitting it as solid as he does, he does everything well. I love watching him play because it's a very classical, beautiful golf swing. Once he matures and starts being out here for a while and being in these kind of situations, I think he's only going to get harder to beat. It's fun to kind of watch him grow up.

 Q. This sport has always had ambassadors and they come in many different shapes and sizes, personalities. From what you know about Rory, if he were to go on and take his talent forward, how good of an ambassador for the sport could he be?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I think anybody who makes people want to tune in and watch is a great ambassador, and Rory McIlroy makes people want to do that. He's a great kid, got a great head on his shoulders, which is very hard to do with his lifestyle. The amount of talent and success he's had at such a young age, he's a great ambassador. You couldn't ask for a better kid to be out there representing the game of golf. 
 I hope he keeps doing what he's been doing and keeps playing great golf because it makes us all want to beat him. That being said, we've still got 36 holes to go, so we'll see what happens. 

 Q. There's still a lot of red out there, more than we're used to seeing in a U.S. Open. Is it conditions? 
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I just think even though the course is 7,500 yards it's not playing real long. You don't have too many long irons into greens, and par-5s were moved up so you could take advantage of those, and greens were soft because of the rain. You give guys good greens and soft conditions they can go out there and shoot some low scores. That being said, I'm sure it's going to change over the weekend. I cannot remember a U.S. Open in a past where there were not four or five guys under par going into the weekend and then it toughens up. I wouldn't be too worried about seeing too many red numbers. I'm sure by Sunday they'll be back on the other side of it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT