THE HERITAGE
April 24, 2011
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. A terrific round of golf today, Brandt. You have to be pleased with that. And I know it could have been even better.
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, it kind of came out of nowhere. I hit the ball in the fairway yesterday and I was out on the range last night with my coach Bob Anderson. I came out today and hit it great and it's been rolling this way for the last four weekends. It was one of those days where everything (indiscernible). So it was a lot of fun. 

 Q. I bet it was. It looked like a lot of fun. Now when you got it going, did you put a number in mind, say, if I can get to this, then that might happen?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: As many guys that were out there, I thought 13 or 14 would give a realistic chance of winning. 
 It felt great playing today. When you shoot 30 on the front nine, stuff starts dancing around your head. So I had the thoughts going. But I realized the back nine is a lot tougher than the front, so I just try to hold off and do what I could. 

 Q. It looked to me like you really slowed your routine down, is that something that you've been working on, because you're a fast player?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yes, that definitely was. That's something I've worked a lot on, especially under tough situations. I tried to slow my thoughts down, slow everything down and it worked out well. I'm very happy about birdieing the last hole. It meant a lot to me, to get that bogey on 16 then to birdie 18 especially.

 Q. Brandt, just comment on the great round, great tournament, and a nice putt there on the last hole. 
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, it was a lot of fun today. You play golf for days like today when you feel you're playing well, and get yourself in contention. It was a lot of fun, and to get that one on the last hole was really special. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I really didn't do a lot of preparation. I worked out real hard last night, came up this morning. Went out on the front nine and shot 30 and before I knew it I was right in the middle of it. So it was a lot of fun to go onto the back nine know I had to some make birdies in order to get back into contention and I did it. Now sit there and watch these guys and hope I don't have to go and play more golf. 

 Q. How well does this course suit you?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I love it. It's the one I put on my calendar every year. Everyone loves being here. There's the people, the town, so much fun. Kind of like a vacation for us, even though we are playing golf. It's such a cool place. I look forward to coming back for hopefully many more years to come. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I've been rolling the ball fantastic. I've put a lot of hard work in my swing over the last few years. So it's pretty sound right now. I've been playing well the last month. When you're doing that, it feels pretty easy.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT