MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2011
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q. Talk about the round and how --
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, I played the way I played all week. I played really, really solid, just couldn't seem to get the few breaks that I needed to have. I hit a lot of good putts that lipped out. I played the par-5s really well today. I had four birdies on the par-5s and just couldn't seem to get over that hump of getting a momentum round going, hitting good putts and getting them to go in from 10 or 15 feet. Just couldn't do it. When it happens around here it's frustrating because I feel like I played really, really well, and one bad day yesterday could have really turned it around and gave me a chance today. But that's the way it goes. We'll figure it out, be back here next year and try to figure it out.

 Q. If I can take you back a little bit, I was working on a story about what it's like to come up 18, and when you came up in the last group it wasn't the ideal circumstance, but what do you remember about that?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: You know, any time you're coming up in the last group it's always a special experience to walk up. Trevor was going to win, and it was pretty cool to share that moment with him, even though it's his moment. I tried to envision myself in that same role at some point in my career and how special it would be. But you know, it's always bittersweet when you're in that role when you're not the one being showered with praise coming up the 18th fairway. 
 But it's just a really cool venue in sports. I've done it at the U.S. Open, never in the last group, but walked up the last hole at U.S. Opens and PGAs and whatever it may be. But here, just the group of guys that walked up before you and everyone has made the same walk before at some point in their careers, it's pretty cool to be able to do that.

 Q. Is it the noise or is it more just this is the place, and it's not like the Open where it rotates?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, I think it's just the people that have come before you, Sarazen, Palmer, Nicklaus, all those guys have made that same wake up that last hole, and here the patrons are very, very good about making you feel welcomed and going crazy for you, and it gets really loud. It's a pretty special experience. 

 Q. We see a lot of the young kids coming up, and a bunch of them are Europeans. We just got through talking with Rickie about that and he pointed out one of the major differences; you go to college. How valuable is the college golf experience, especially for a guy at Vanderbilt, one of the national elite programs?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, it's great, because we're all one thing away from being done with our golf career. You can tear a shoulder, break your knee up or do something like that, and you're off doing something else. I valued my education. I think I had a great time at Vanderbilt and really enjoyed getting to know a lot of my lifelong friends, people who have helped me in my life and career to the point I would have never been if I hadn't gone to Vanderbilt. I think it's the smartest decision I've ever made, and I give them for credit for me being where I am out here on Tour, too. Just a different process over there. They don't have the universities as -- university sports that are as specialized as they are over here. 
 You know, I grew up in a family where it was education and college or nothing. Turning pro was not an option. I guess it could be different. I wasn't that good coming out of high school. I couldn't have turned pro, so I would have never had to make that decision. 

 Q. One of those friends that you met at Vanderbilt came after you a few years, Luke List. What's it been like watching him? 
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: It's been great. You know, I think Luke has got all the talent in the world, and I have no doubt he'll be out here beating me at some point on Sunday. It's fun trying to help him along and giving him the vote of confidence off the Nationwide Tour and onto the PGA Tour where he belongs. It's just a learning curve. I just keep telling him to stay patient and not beat himself up too much and really value the process. Everything has a reason. There's a reason why he has to take his lumps right now. It's not easy out here, and you've got to have thick skin. He'll figure it out here in hopefully not too long and be out here next year. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT