MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2011
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q. Tell us a little bit about your round today. 
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: A fine up-and-down round. I drove the ball really, really good again today and just couldn't make the putts that I did yesterday. 
 Unfortunately I hit it, it was playing a lot tougher today and had some tucked pins and the greens were definitely a little faster today. 
 So a little bit more conservative, just couldn't get anything going the right direction. But we're in good shape going to the weekend.

 Q. How much did the wind play into your game today?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: It was tough. It was really hard to pick a club. It was swirling around and it makes you look silly sometimes in the shots you hit out here, because you don't really know which direction it's going until you actually pull the trigger. 
 So you just try to give it your best guess and take your shot and hopefully the wind does what it's supposed to.

 Q. What did you find today to be the most difficult hole for you?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: You know, the back nine today the wind was really swirling around those trees pretty tough. It's hard to pick a club on 14, on 15, on 16, on 17, and even on 18 here. It was really tough to pull clubs out of the bag, even though I was in great shape looking down at the pins, I had a tough time coming in. 
 But it's just, everybody's going through it right now, so you got to kind of take your lumps and go on out there on the weekend and hopefully shoot something low.

 Q. You're looking good towards the weekend. What are you going to do now to prepare mentally as far as looking at tomorrow?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Keep doing the same things I've been doing. I drove it great today, I'm rolling it fantastic, and the putts just aren't going in. If they start going in it's going to be a lot of fun. So I know they're going to go in it's just a matter if they go in tomorrow or Sunday. Hopefully it will happen both. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT