SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 3, 2020
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Another good day out there, particularly on the back nine.  A lot of good putting out there.
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I didn't make anything early.  I had some good looks early and nothing went in, and I told myself to be patient and they're eventually going to go in, and sure enough, made a long one on 12 and kind of got things going.  Looking ahead to tomorrow, I've got a chance to win a golf tournament.  This is what you come out here for, and I feel really confident things are going to work out.
 Q. As you got to the back nine, the lead was still kind of right there.  As a guy who's been out here long enough, does that give you a jolt of energy, rather than calling you an old man --
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Well, I am in comparison to these guys.
 Q. Does that give you a jolt of energy, hey, if I can get something going, I'm in this?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, I think the biggest thing is knowing, being out here long enough to realize that over the course of four rounds, very rarely someone is going to be hot for all four, so never get too obsessed with where you are on the leaderboard at that moment, just try to get as low as you can and know that over the course of four days, someone is going to have an off nine holes.  And you're going to have a nine-hole stretch which doesn't quite go your way for whatever reason, and so just make sure you stay patient and don't try to push it.  I did a great job today, I only shot 1-under on the front nine and I played really good, and was kind of spinning my wheels a little bit.  Luckily I didn't get too far behind at that point, but you never know out here.  A lot can happen, and that's why you kind of have to stay patient and realize that when you do have a good stretch you take advantage of it because a lot can change really quick.
 Q. As you head into tomorrow's round, anything different for you?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:   No, I'm excited.  I feel really good.  Probably as excited and confident as I've been about my golf game in a long time.  I'm talking years.  I'm really excited to see how it holds up tomorrow.  I think it's going to hold up really well, and I can shoot another low one, I know.
 Q. Do you set some goals at the beginning of the season --
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Always.  Every year I start off with a new set of goals.  Last year I kind of failed on every single one of them, so just kind of starting a set of new ones this year.  It always starts with me at the TOUR Championship.  If you make TOUR Championship, I don't care what you've done for that year, it's always a good year.  Then you need to start adding on I feel like I should win a golf tournament every year I'm out here or that should be my goal.  I feel like I should have a chance to win a major, one of the four majors, have a chance going into the weekend.  A lot can happen out here, but the more you put yourself in contention, the better your odds are.  Like I said, I've got a new set of goals this year.  I know it's a Ryder Cup year coming up, and I've kind of put myself behind the 8-ball but still have five majors before that thing comes around now, so really excited about the opportunities I have in front of myself to go out there and try to achieve something.
 Q. You mentioned how you've been struggling a bit.
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah.
 Q. So has Sergio, and this week he's tied for the lead right now.  How do guys turn it around like that?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, it's funny, I don't think we're any different than anybody else.  That's one reason why I think we're all kind of -- everybody who loves golf and plays golf recreationally and pros, we're no different.  We're always one swing away from feeling like we're the best player in the world and we're always on another stretch feeling like we should find another job.  We're no different than anybody else.  I just feel like out here long enough, you've got to be patient with yourself and give yourself enough time to realize, hey, things will turn around, I just can't beat myself up.
 I think for Sergio in his specific case, I think him having a daughter or having kids has been really good for him to kind of put everything in perspective and kind of embrace his career and where he is, and I think -- I've noticed it just the few times I've played with him since he's had kids, he's definitely a lot mellower on the golf course.  He gives himself a lot more grace than he probably used to.  He used to beat himself up a lot, and I don't see that nearly as much anymore.  I think it'll lead to a lot of good golf for him going forward, because as everybody knows, he's super talented.
 Q. Have you noticed him putting with his eyes closed?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I've seen that for a couple -- it's not something new.  I've seen it a couple different times.  I've seen quite a few guys that do it at different times out here when things aren't going well, trying to find something to queue it up, whether it's looking at the hole or closing your eyes or whatever it may be.  As long as it works for him, keep doing it.  If he keeps making putts, everybody else will be trying it out here, too.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT