U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
June 18, 2017
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What do you take away from the day?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Did a lot of good stuff, obviously wasn't good enough.  Frustrated with kind of the way I finished the last couple of days.  Had chances, just wasn't able to get it done.  Part of golf.  Part of being the U.S. Open.  It's going to test you.   
I thought the USGA did a great job with the golf course.  I know it's not what everybody expected U.S. Open-wise, but they didn't try to monkey with the course and get some arbitrary numbers.  They let the course stand for itself.  I thought the course played really well.   
It was fun to play.  I thought it was very challenging.  And I think we'd all wish it would have been dry all week and had conditions like this, and it would be a different tournament.  All in all a good week and take a lot of positives out of it.   
 Q.  Brooks Koepka has the lead right now.  As someone who played with him in the Ryder Cup, can you talk about him?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I kept telling people last year after the Ryder Cup, when Brooks figures out how good he is, he's going to be a world beater.  It's starting to figure it out and we're seeing it today.  Great player, great kid.  Somebody who's got a long career.  I think today he's proven what kind of talent he has, go out there and play the way he has on a Sunday in a major.  I think he's 5 or 6-under par.  I don't know what he is right now, but playing unbelievable golf.  And on top of it, he's a great guy.  He's easy to root for.   
 Q.  How much did the wind impact your game plan today?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: It just didn't really impact it, just kind of changed the thought processes on a few of the holes.  Wasn't too terrible.  A couple of holes early were tough.  And as you get in the round, it started playing the way it was supposed to play all week.  In that aspect, it didn't affect it too much.   
I still knew there would be some birdies because the greens were soft.   
 Q.  What's next for you?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Playing next week at Hartford.  Quick turnaround, hopefully we can build off of this week and next week and be up there again.   
 Q.  What do you make of having so many first-time major champions, seven in a row now?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I just think it kind of comes along probably every 15, 20 years, where somebody has got to win them.  I think we all got kind of spoiled in the Tiger Woods era, you had Tiger and Ernie and Phil and all of these unbelievable, historically world class players.  And we're starting to see the next generation be those guys, the Jordan Spieths, the Rickie Fowlers.  I know Rickie hasn't won one yet, but all those -- Rory McIlroy, and all those guys come along.  It's kind of this generation's world beaters.  There's going to be a lot of first-timers coming forward, a lot of young guys learning how to win out here.   
 Q.  What's better for you, one guy or a few guys dominating or kind of spread out?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I think it's both.  You need to have both.  You need to have one guy push everybody to get better, which Tiger did and Jack did before that.  I don't know who this next generation guy is going to be, but it's fun to watch right now.  You really don't know who is going to win, but for the casual fan they want to know who is going to win every week and when he does (indiscernible).  I like seeing all these guys competing every week trying to beat each other.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT