MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 7, 2011
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
   
  Q. Nice round.   
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Thank you, yeah, it was good. I drove it really good today and made a few putts here and there. I missed a few short ones which kind of frustrates me. I played really well from tree to green. But overall you can't complain with that opening round, and I'm going to go home and watch it on TV, I guess.  
  
  Q. The course was out there for you.   
BRANDT SNEDEKER: It was, yeah. It was out there for you. You were able to go out there and hit a hybrid into 15. I drove it about four feet. That's not going to happen later on in the week, so I enjoyed the nice, soft conditions and had a bunch of good looks. The greens are rolling perfect. They're not too crazy quick yet. But I'm sure this afternoon they'll be moving. Took advantage of a good morning and a good tee time.  
  
  Q. Have you figured out 13 now?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I finally hit it in two, didn't I? But I had to make a 30-footer for my second putt, so we're still working on it. I'd like to get a little less stress on those birdie putts and not so much work. But you never figure it out, you're just going to hit a good shot when you can.  
  
  Q. Do you take note of Ben Crenshaw's caddie, Carl Jackson? It's his 50th Masters.   
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, we talked a little bit about it. I played nine holes with him yesterday or five holes with him yesterday, and we brought it up, that he started -- that's a long time to be at one place. He's seen a lot of shots and a lot of good shots and bad shots around here, so it's fun to be out with him. He's a living legend. It's always cool to see him and Ben out there playing in the Masters.  
  
  Q. Did you feel like there was something special going on with his knowledge and the way they were communicating?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: It's funny, he didn't have to say much. I think Ben has played here a bunch where Ben kind of knows what to do around here, and when he asks questions, Carl is always pretty quick with the response, so it's kind of nice to have that kind of security on the bag where you're not sure, you've got somebody there who's seen every putt on this course break 9,000 times, so he knows what to do.   
  
  Q. You've been really close here. How do you feel --  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I feel great. I feel this is the best I've played in my career. I feel really comfortable with where I am in my life. I also have a newborn at home, so that's exciting. Gives me something else to focus on instead of my golf game so much, so I don't live and die by Thursdays and Fridays anymore, which is nice. Just having a lot more fun with it, so I feel like this is going to be a really good year.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT