TRANSITIONS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 18, 2011
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   BRANDT SNEDEKER: Played really good. A fun day. Been playing good all year, it's either been feast or famine. I either play really, really good and get a few good breaks and finish well or I miss the cut. So it's kind of nice to come out here today and shoot a good one.  
  
  Q. Is this a golf course you feel like you should play well at?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: It is. I love this place. It makes you kind of define all of your shots and it's really easy to pick lines, and you're rewarded for hitting good golf shots and you have to scramble a little bit, which fits into my game. I don't know why, but I always like the way this place sets up for me.  
  
  Q. On a sad note, the loss yesterday to University of Richmond?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: We had a great team and a lot of talent. I had high hopes for us in the tournament and I know they are frustrated. It's unfortunate. Every year you feel like this is going to be their year; they will be fine next year.   
  
  Q. Did your wife tell that you, baby needed a few pair of shoes and to have a good week?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I'm a lot more relaxed now. I realize there's a lot more important stuff out there, and after changing diapers for ten days, it's kind of nice to be out here and enjoy the good weather.   
  
  Q. Maybe just go through the round a little bit.   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: A lot of good stuff. First hole I hit a pitch shot to about eight feet and made it, about an 8-footer.   
 I birdied the par 3, No. 4, hit a 7-iron from about 175 to about ten feet just short and knocked it in.   
 Shot of the day was the next hole, I hit a 100-yard shot, sand wedge in the first cut and came out perfect and landed just short of the hole and rolled right in the middle for an eagle.   
 Then I birdied No. 7. Hit a 7-iron in there from about 175. About ten feet just right of the hole and made it.   
 Bogeyed 10. Hit a poor shot in there and then didn't get up-and-down.   
 On 11 I hit a wedge shot to about eight feet. Made a putt.   
 Holed out a bunker shot on 13. Green-side bunker shot. So had a few hole-outs and always helps the cause. Had about 15, 20-yard pitch shot out of the bunker.  
  
  Q. You had good finishes in the California group and your wife had the baby at Honda?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: It's been a head-scratching year. I feel like I played really, really good all year and I've had two good finishes and missed three cuts, which is unlike me. One of those things, you just scratch your head and move on.   
 With the baby at Honda, I played good the first round and got the call and got home just in time, barely made it and that was a great experience. Life's never the same. It's changed and it's awesome. And gives you a little different perspective out here when you're enjoying good weather inside the ropes, having fun, being able to sleep through the night and not having to change diapers every five minutes, it's good.   
 The baby is Lily Hayes she was born March 3. She's a little small baby, she was five pounds, 14 ounces, our first. So it's been awesome.   
  
  Q. How close did you cut it?   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I had about an hour and a half to spare. She was nine centimeters when I got off the plane, so it was close.   
  
  Q. Was she actually born on Thursday?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: She was born Thursday night. So the doctor did not break her water until I set foot in the hospital which is good. Made it just in time.   
  
  Q. Feel like the pressure is off and you can go out and play.   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: It's nice. This is a week I was not planning on playing. She was due yesterday, so this is kind of a bonus.   
 I love this place. I love being here. It's just kind of a different feel. I called home last night and Skyped with her and got to see with her and all was forgotten and I was in a great mood. Funny how that works.  
  
  Q. So the phone call that she had gone into labor was a surprise?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Very much a surprise.   
  
  Q. You have to be ready, the first ones can come whenever they come.   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: She was due yesterday so we were planning on inducing Wednesday night, and I always heard the first ones come late if anything.   
 Wasn't going to play the World Golf Championships at Doral, so I was going to have two weeks, and if she came early was going to be fine. She actually called and texted my caddie on the second hole and he didn't tell me until I got done.   
 So I was a little worried. She didn't want me to come home if she was in false labor and she was freaking out, it was our first one and she didn't know what was going on. When I talked to her, I realized that I needed to get home. I can always come back if things didn't work out. But don't want to miss the first one being done.   
  
  Q. You had a morning tee time, shot 72?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: 2-over. I was like in 25th place. I was playing good.   
  
  Q. Even though the cuts you missed, did you feel like you hit it good?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, I feel like it's the best I've hit it my whole career to be honest with you. This is as good as I've been playing in a long time, and I feel like every part of my game is a lot better than it was at any point in my career.   
  
  Q. Do you know why?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: A lot of hard work. A lot of hard work. I've tried to get my game to where it's a little bit more consistent and feel like I'm putting better and hitting my driver a lot better and hitting my irons a lot more solid and all of my stats are better this year.   
 I just can't quite seem to put it together for four rounds. That's the easy part. Now it's about playing golf, which is kind of nice when you don't have to go out there and work on your golf swing and worry about what's going on. Just go out there and score.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT