DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 4, 2010
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOHN BUSH: Our current leader of the Deutsche Bank Championship joins us, Brandt Snedeker, after a 7-under par 64, eight birdies, one bogey. Brandt, just a tremendous round. Let's get your comments.   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, it was a lot of fun. I played really well from pretty much every facet of the game today and made a lot of putts, which was very nice. I hit the ball really well yesterday and just didn't seem to make a whole lot, and today I made everything I looked at, so that was a nice way to get through the day.   
 The wind made it a little tougher out there today, but still, a lot of birdie opportunities and the course is playing perfect right now. The greens are relatively soft. The greens are perfect to roll on, so if you're hitting your lines you can make a lot of putts, and fortunately enough I did it today, so it was nice.  
 JOHN BUSH: No. 53 in the FedExCup standings, so through two rounds you're doing what you need to do.   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, I want to get to Chicago, want to get to Atlanta, so that's obviously in the back of my mind a little bit. More importantly right now is trying to focus on tomorrow and get through tomorrow. I want to make sure I can play at least a couple more weeks this year.   
  
  Q. You mentioned getting to Atlanta. Obviously playing really well this week sort of takes away having to make a short putt on the final hole in Chicago.   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, exactly. It would be really nice to kind of come back and play well this week and take care of that and not have to worry about four-putting the last hole like I did last year at BMW and getting past that.   
 But that's what makes the FedExCup great. It has those kind of stories that are there. You put a little bit more extra pressure on yourself than you normally should, and I learned from that last year and hopefully this year I won't make the same mistake.  
  
  Q. Do you ever still think about that?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: No, not really. When y'all bring it up I think about it, but not really. It's kind of funny now looking back on it. It's one of those things, for about a week it stung, but now looking back on it, probably would -- I feel like I'm hopefully a little bit stronger now mentally to deal with something like that than I was then, so I feel better about it now.  
  
  Q. This time yesterday I don't know if you had started your round, but with the weather we may have been getting, are you surprised to be sitting here 12-under two rounds in?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I'm surprised to be sitting here, period, because I didn't think we were going to get done today. I didn't think we were going to get done yesterday. I was pleasantly surprised to be able to play 18 holes yesterday without really a delay, and then to get in today with the course not being damaged or anything, coming through last night, I thought it was a great -- I wasn't liking my odds in the draw when I teed off yesterday after I saw the scores in the morning. But you know, that being said, I think it's going to end up working out the exact same. I think these guys in the afternoon are going to have the tough conditions that we had yesterday afternoon; they're going to get some wind and course should dry out a little bit. So I think it's going to end up evening out a little bit.  
  
  Q. Can you compare your round today and yesterday, like did you hit it really well yesterday or putt it really well today?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I did, yeah. I definitely think I hit it better yesterday than I did today. I had a lot more makeable birdie putts yesterday. Today I just putted fantastic; everything I had, I made pretty much inside ten feet today and a lot of putts from the 15-, 20-foot range. So those days are all fun when you kind of get on the green and make a lot of putts. Hopefully I still have that momentum going into the weekend.  
  
  Q. Dovetailing on what Jason asked, did it take a while for the sting from that last hole the last day at BMW to go away, and were you kicking yourself for kind of rushing it a little bit at the end?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: It probably took, like I said, until the next tournament I played in, which was about four weeks later, until I teed it up again and started playing again and had a putt that meant something. Once I did that and made it and got past it, I felt fine.   
 It was just kind of one of those things, when you can't get out there and erase your last memory, it's all you're thinking about; for four weeks it's kind of still there. It was tough watching TOUR Championship feeling like I should have been there, and I still give Sendo a hard time when I see him out here this year in practice rounds and say, I still haven't gotten my thank-you note last year for getting you in. But it's kind of one of those things you have to let it brush off your back and kind of move on.   
 JOHN BUSH: Let's go through the card. Not a great start, bogey on the first hole.   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, I hit one in the hazard there off the tee, actually way right and was able to two-putt and make a good bogey there.  
 11, I made about a 25-footer from off the green after hitting a good 3-iron.  
 17, I hit a 9-iron to about 15 feet below the hole, made a good putt right in the middle.  
 18, I hit a hybrid over the green, chipped up to about five feet and made it.  
 2, I laid up and hit a lob wedge to about six, eight feet behind the hole and was able to make that putt.  
 3, I hit a 6-iron from 175 to about five feet from behind the hole, really good shot, made it.  
 4, I hit a lob wedge short -- hit driver short of the bunker, chipped up to about 15 feet and made a putt.  
 6, I had 180, hit a 7-iron to about 15 feet just off the green and made it.  
 Last hole, I hit a 4-iron from 185 and made about a ten-footer there.  
  
  Q. You played well at Greensboro. Did you sense that a good week was coming here?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Oh, yeah. I felt like I played -- going back even before Greensboro, I feel like I've been playing really well. I had a chance at the PGA, played really good, was in the top 20 on the last day and had a bad last day.   
 Last week was kind of an anomaly. I played really good the first round and kind of got a bad break teeing off early in the morning the second day and had a lot mud balls and kind of let that get under my skin and shot 6-over par, which didn't feel like I played bad at all. Kind of one of those things that happens in the course of a year and now I feel hopefully I can make up for that kind of brain fart last week and play well this weekend.   
 JOHN BUSH: Brandt, great playing through two rounds. Keep it going.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT