WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 21, 2010
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, I played fantastic all day. Yeah, you have days like that. We've got 18 more holes again tomorrow. I hit a good drive on 15. My score didn't back it up. You're going to have days like that. I hit the ball really well. 
 Besides the first tee shot, I drove it great and gave myself a lot of birdie chances. Couldn't make anything today. I had one bad swing on the back-9 and had to pay the ultimate penalty. We've got 18 more holes tomorrow.

 Q. Take us through 15 and 16.
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah. I hit a good drive on 15 and I couldn't judge which way it was going to go. It swayed way right in the water. Unfortunately that stuff happens in the course of a 72 hole tournament. Wish it hadn't happened there but it did. I had a good putt for par. Lipped it out. 
 Then on 16, I hit a good first putt, thought I made it and kind of squeaked by the right edge. Hit a good 2-footer, kind of hit something, caught the right edge and sputted out. 
 I can't think of really anywhere where I should have made a bogey today except for those two holes. Unfortunately, that kind of stuff happened. Hopefully, I saved up all my putts for tomorrow and do it tomorrow.

 Q. Four shots back going into tomorrow but this is the kind of course that you can make up those kind of strokes.
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: For sure. Arjun played great. Had a great back-9. He's going to have to play like that tomorrow if he wants to win. I feel like this course owes me a bunch tomorrow. I feel like I'm playing fantastic. I need a few good breaks, shoot something low and give him a run for it tomorrow.

 Q. Talk about what you've seen from Arjun. He seems really calm and sort of in the moment.
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: He's playing great. He's not put himself in too many bad positions out there. He's rolling the ball fantastic. He's making a lot of those putts that I'm missing. You have to do that if you want to shoot a low number. He didn't put himself in a bad spot all day.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT