U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
June 16, 2017
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How do you feel about the round?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I played pretty good.  I only hit in the hay once today.  I was able to get out of that one hole.  Then it played fantastic.   
The greens, I've been saying all week, I love the way the greens are rolling, and there was a ton of footage putts, made a bunch of 20-footers.  Really what made my round what it was.   
So I have no illusions that this is going to be -- 7-under par is going to win this golf tournament.  Things are going to toughen up depending on the weather the next couple of days.  So it's going to be a dog fight, and be a U.S. Open over the weekend.  It's going to be tough, so I'll try to get ready for that.   
 Q.  Was there a little uncertainty coming into this round and how you played, because you've missed so much time recently?  Do you have more confidence now?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, the two times I played in Texas got me back into the swing of things.  Let me know my game's good.  And two weeks I've been working on that in practice.  So I felt really refreshed, which is what you need to when you come into the U.S. Open, you can't be fried at all.  You have to have patience.  The last two days, not trying to force the issue on too many holes.  So I'm excited where I am.  I know what the next two days are going to look like.   
 Q.  Is there something about this golf course, you look how crowded the leaderboard is.  Is it the golf course?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I just don't know if we've found the golf course yet.  You can see it getting there.  Greens-wise in U.S. Opens you get firm, fast conditions and the fire's not quite there yet.  So yesterday afternoon I saw it a little on TV.  Saw it today a little this afternoon.  I expect to see more and more over the weekend.  So when that happens, it will really start the separating.   
 Q.  Were the green speeds different as your round went on?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: It got a little faster today as it went on.  Certainly we had some crusty greens and started seeing some putts running a couple extra feet later in the day.  And won't be shocked if it's faster tomorrow.   
 Q.  If it does get wet, will that change your mindset?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, definitely.  Reminds me of Congressional, played Jason Day on Sunday, and Rory ended up winning by a ton.  You have to change your mindset there because the fairways play wide, the greens are soft, and you make a lot of putts.   
So if we get rain tomorrow and it gets wet and it plays soft, this place is going to get soft and you're going to have to be aggressive and you have to make a ton of birdies.  The fairways are wide enough.  They're starting to narrow down and getting firm.  But if it gets soft, they'll get wide again and guys will be throwing darts out there.   
 Q.  Would you rather it be firm or soft?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Firm.  I don't hit 320 in the air.  I need firm.   
 Q.  Your stroke, you use it all the time?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yes.   
 Q.  Does it matter if it's softer?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: No, I'd like it to stay like it was today, the faster the better.  I'm used to putting on fast greens, so I'm ready for it.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: A little bit.  Tomorrow will be the test.   
 Q.  You said you wanted it firm.  The thinking coming in, this was a bomber's golf course, but that's not necessarily the case?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: It certainly helps, but it doesn't hurt to hit it here.  There are some holes where I was hitting 5-irons in, and I saw Brooks was playing behind me with sand wedges in.  So it definitely helps.   
But that being said, you've still got to think your way around here.  You have to be smart where you leave the golf ball and stuff like that.  It's evermore important in a U.S. Open.   
 Q.  Brandt, I'm sure you expected to be on the first page of the leaderboard.  There are people looking at the first page of the leaderboard and saying where have all the big names gone?  How do you account for that?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: You know, it's just unfortunate, it's just the way the game of golf is.  Just when you think you've got the thing figured out, it turns around and hits you in the face.  The leaderboard is shaping up quite nicely.  I think you've got a lot of great players on top of that leaderboard and you've got some guys that hit it forward, some guys that putt it great.  Some guys that do everything pretty good.   
So I think we'll have a way better idea how the tournament's going to work out tomorrow afternoon.  If the conditions stay the way they are right now, the leaderboard will start to look a lot different, I think.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT