WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 20, 2010
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MARK STEVENS: Welcome back again, Brandt. 12-under. If you talke a little bit about your round and then we'll take some questions.
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah. Just another good solid day. I hit a lot of fairways and greens. The only thing I was kind of off today was my putting. Besides that, I played fantastic. 
 So kind of a good way to make a few putts coming in, at least a few birdies on the last four, five holes to kind of get me over that hump a little bit and looking forward to the weekend. 
 Hopefully a lot more birdies out there.
 MARK STEVENS: Questions.

 Q. Back-to-back good rounds. You said earlier this week that you struggled with some consistency. How was it to put back-to-back good rounds together?
 A It's probably the best back-to-back ball striking rounds I've had in awhile. It's nice to see that come together. Gives me a lot of hope for the weekend. I feel like putting has been a little bit off the first few days from where it normally is. I'm right there where I should be. 
 Hopefully I can keep that going through the weekend and work on my putting a little bit this afternoon and come out tomorrow and make a lot of putts.

 Q. Does it surprise you at all that you've had such success here on two different golf courses?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: You know, not really. I guess it's just I feel comfortable here. I like -- though the golf courses are different, they're the same kind of grass and greens, stuff I grew up on, very similar.
 And I don't know what it is about this time of year. I seem to be playing my best golf come this time of year. I don't know if it's I'm playing into form or see the finish line at the end of the year. Whatever it is, it may be. This time of year I play my best. Just feels comfortable here.
 MARK STEVENS: Any others?

 Q. You mentioned your putting stroke a little bit earlier. Could you talk about that a little bit more? Did you leave some out there in today?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I left quite a few out there. I think I missed four putts inside about eight feet which is very unlike me and just kind of, you know, speed a little bit off and speed gets off, you start searching a little bit and worrying about your stroke when it's just your speed. 
 That being said, been playing great all year so hopefully it will be there starting Saturday and kind of a minor glitch, work on it this afternoon. 
 Kind of frustrating to go play that good of golf and the one thing I'm normally the best at, putting, wasn't there. But it never seems to work where you got everything working at the same time. All in all, a good day.

 Q. Couple years ago when you came to be the defending champion, although you didn't win here, one trip around the course I think just riding the cart you were, I guess the term would be, "euphoric". 
 I guess nothing has happened since to make you change your mind about all that.
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: No. I love the golf course. It sets up very visually appealing to me. It's an old school golf course, which I like. I like a golf course where driver is not necessarily the most important club in your bag, you have to use every club in your bag. 
 Just kind of a fun golf course I grew up on. When you grow up on a golf course like this you kind of get used to playing, visually it sets up well to you and gets you comfortable and as anybody will tell you out here, being comfortable is everything. So, hopefully I'll keep saying comfortable for the weekend. 
 We'll find out.

 Q. On those two long par 3s out here, I've noticed some of the players seem to be hitting metal woods. Is it that long?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah. 12th hole today was 240 yards. I hit 5-wood. And I guess the 7th hole is 230 yards. Hit 3-iron. I think you see a lot of metal woods. 
 Guys are hitting 3-hybrids. You see that. This course typically plays a little shorter than it's playing this year. You see guys, little more club off the tee.

 Q. Does anyone carry a 1-iron anymore?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Few guys carry 2-irons. The only guy I know is Joey Sindelar, he's on the Senior Tour. I know Davis and a couple of guys, long hitters, play 2-irons for flighting purposes. Everybody has a backup as in either a 2-iron or a hybrid. One of each, depending on the course. 
 I normally play a Rescue or 5-wood. I put the 5-wood in the bag. I thought there were a few more of those than Rescues. I think most guys have all those options available now.
 MARK STEVENS: One last question.

 Q. I'm sure you've been asked this a few times this week but your thoughts on the cell phone experiment. Are you for it? Does it matter?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I haven't heard one go off yet. It's fine with me. I think some weeks -- I've never -- actually it's funny that you ask that. 
 I've heard more cell phones go off in the last three weeks than I have this week. We're supposed to have a cell phone policy. I really don't think there are cell phone policies that are very strictly enforced. 
 People get them if they want to. The fact you say put it on silent, take the ringer off, most people have listened, which is great. So, we'll see how long that lasts and wait until -- we'll find out tomorrow and Sunday. Should be having a few more people out there following me. We'll see.
 MARK STEVENS: Okay. Thanks a lot, Brandt. Good luck this weekend.
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT