WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 19, 2010
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DOUG MILNE: Welcome. Good to see you. Brandt Snedeker, 7-under, 63 in Round 1. Obviously familiar territory. Obviously a tournament very fond to your heart. Just a few comments on the round today and just kind of how you're feeling about the game as you head into Round 2 tomorrow.
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: It was a good day. Got off to kind a slow start and eagled No. 5, I believe, or 6 and kind of got the round going a little bit and kind of stalled out. 
 Back-9 I got hot. Started making putts. I'm swinging really good right now. Putting it really good. It was kind of a day that didn't shock me by any means. I was due one of these days and I put a new driver in the bag yesterday and came off great and gave me a little extra distance off the tees this week. 
 I'm loving it. Hopefully looking forward to tomorrow morning.
 DOUG MILNE: Open it up for a few questions.

 Q. This is the first time the PGA has allowed fan to bring cell phones in. Did that cause any disruptions?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: None whatsoever. I think it's something good they're doing. I think it's a great trial run to see how it goes. I didn't hear a phone today. I haven't heard any complaints by any players. 
 I think the fans are smart enough to realize that we're out here trying to work and keep the phones on silent. So far so good after day one. Talk to me after Saturday and Sunday when it's a little more crowded.

 Q. You said you put a new driver in the bag. How many times did you hit it today?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I hit it probably 8 times I want to say and I think I missed two fairways with it. So just kind of the first time I've changed drivers in a year and a half. So it was a big change for me. But it's working out well. It's a new Bridgestone driver. So far so good.

 Q. When you know scores are going to be low, talk about, you still got to kind of be patient. Is that kind of a key out there when you know scores are going to be in the 60s, basically?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: It is. I turned at 2-under par figuring I was playing pretty good and was in 50th place. I realized it's going to be a long tournament, long week. Guy shoot 9-under is not going to do it for four straight rounds. It's going to be kind of a -- kind of wait and you get hot and take advantage of it. When you don't, try to minimize your mistakes. 
 Luckily I got hot on the back-9. Made a lot of birdies. Hopefully I can keep that rolling to tomorrow morning. Just a long week.

 Q. Some of the guys yesterday said that they thought maybe the best scores would come in the morning when the greens were smoother and maybe in the afternoon they would be spiked up. Lot of low scores this afternoon.
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah. I guess the guys this morning got a little bit of a bad break with the weather. Heard it misted on them. We got the better of the draw. Wasn't any wind to speak of this afternoon. The greens were a little bumpy. The greens are real soft and receptive. Course played nice. That's why you saw the low scores this afternoon.
 DOUG MILNE: Okay. Well, Brandt, we always appreciate your time. Keep up the good work.
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Hope to see you later on this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT