CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK CLASSIC
November 12, 2009
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   BRANDT SNEDEKER: I think after five or six, and I was struggling watching him. He was struggling a little bit.   
 And it was just one of those things. It's golf. You can't prepare for nerves or anything. They're going to be there and you just gotta try to hold on.   
 And after that he played great. The rest of the way in from that fifth hole. He shot a couple under and played really, really good golf and just made a couple in the round and I'll give him a hard time about it tonight and he'll be ready to go tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Were you trying to give him some help or leave him alone?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah. I tried to help him early and I figured I was not helping, so I just kind of shut up and let him do his own thing. And he got into -- it's one of those things where it's especially hard where you come into one of these tournaments and you try to get a rhythm going and you're used to playing tournament golf and that's what he's used to playing is tournament golf, so it's kind of a different rhythm, so he kind of got off to a slow start and nerves got the best of him the first four or five holes.   
 He shot like I've never seen him hit before. I kind of figured that was coming. But he survived it. It was a tough day out there.   
 You know, we got -- I don't know, golly, now I feel like I played great, shot 2-under par on a course the guys are normally shooting 8, 9, 10-under par, so he hung in there and didn't shoot himself in the foot.   
  
  Q. Have you made the transition to the new grooves?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I have, yeah.   
  
  Q. When did you do that?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I've been playing since I came back out.   
  
  Q. Really?   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah. After my injury. They tell me it's (indiscernible).   
 I know what they do out of the rough now. Every one of them flies, and it's great for guys like me and the shorter hitters because we used to be 180 yards out in the rough and we couldn't get on the greens. All of a sudden I'm dead and go nowhere. Now at least we can get up by the greens. It's tough to get on.  
  
  Q. What will be the difference when you switch over?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I don't think it'll be a big deal much. You know, the biggest deal is going to be how (indiscernible) and stuff like that. (Indiscernible).   
  
  Q. So you think it's going to force guys to hit it in the fairways more?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: No. No.   
  
  Q. What are you using?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I use a 53.   
  
  Q. And when are you supposed to be switching?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I got them this week. I think I'll have them in my next round. Actually I've been looking at them a little bit. I actually spent just as much time on the fairways as my other ones, in and around the greens, but just kind of the shot at the first cut and that kind of stuff, they kind of come out high, there's not a lot of spin on them.   
  
  Q. Out of the rough. All your clubs are the same makers?   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah. They are. So it's kind of -- to answer your question it's kind of 56 degree in the bag, and that would have more impact on the game for them to be good looking.   
  
  Q. I must have missed it. Did you talk about Haymes and the last time you guys played together?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: No, I didn't. We played -- last time we played together was in -- played in a tournament or just played together?   
  
  Q. Well, in a tournament.   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: In a tournament. Last time we played in a tournament together we played against each other trying to beat each other, we played down in -- he just graduated from college, I just graduated from high school, so a long time ago.   
  
  Q. He went to Ole Miss?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: He was Ole Miss, yeah, and I was going to Vanderbilt. Clipped him by one or two, I think, and that was the first time I beat him.   
  
  Q. Do you remember the year, approximately?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: We played in '99.   
  
  Q. Oh, okay.   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: No. We played in some like little stuff together, like scrambles and that kind of stuff and tournaments where it was strict play and that kind of stuff.   
  
  Q. Okay. But it was obviously fun.   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: It was obviously fun. Today was a great day. He struggled a little bit, but hung in there, and it was good to see him compete and be out there playing with them, you know.   
  
  Q. Okay. Good.   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT