WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 20, 2009
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DOUG MILNE: Okay. We'd like to welcome the 2007 Wyndham Championship winner here. Great round today, 6-under, 64. Seven birdies and just one bogey.
 Just kind of assess the state of your game. You obviously got to feel good after a round like that. You know, your injuries, you're beyond that. Kind of talk a little bit about your game and the round today.
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I played very good. I talked to you I think yesterday. Y'all probably didn't believe me. I told you I was playing good. I've been putting it fantastic. I putted it great today. Hit a lot of really great iron shots. My driver kind of left me for five, six holes. I struggled a little bit. 
 I was able to makes a bunch of pars and get away with it. I've been playing good for six, seven weeks now or nine weeks since I've been back out here on Tour. Missed a couple cuts here and there. 
 I was excited coming in this week. I was swinging good at it. I knew I was playing good even though I missed the cut at the PGA. Getting back on bent grass greens got my putts going again. I putted fantastic. I hope I can keep that going for the rest of the week.
 DOUG MILNE: Take a few questions.

 Q. What did you do during the time off?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: When I was at home? Not a whole lot. I had a rib injury I couldn't really -- anybody who has ever had a cracked or broken rib, there's not a whole lot you can do. 
 I was stuck in the house in my condo. I think my wife almost killed me through the fifth week. Was itching for me to get back out on the road. 
 I was not a happy camper to be sick at home watching -- I would watch the players, Wachovia, Texas swing, all those tournaments I loved in the past and played good at.
 It was tough to sit at home and watch that for the first time in my career being on Tour. It kind of put everything in perspective a little bit. And, you know, finally about week six I was able to get out at the golf course and start practicing and back to basics. 
 Watched a lot of TV and movies, lot of Golf Channel. Read a lot of papers. Wasn't very much fun but -- after week one I was pretty -- I was itching to get back out on the road.

 Q. I, too, I think I separated something here and it was hard for me to breathe. Was there anything you could do to kind of --
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I understand why people have addiction problems with pan killers because they're fantastic. Only thing that got me through the first three, four weeks. 
 The rest day was miserable. I think I had a hiccupping episode and had to go to the hospital it was so bad. Just no fun. I wouldn't wish that on anybody. It's no fun at all. Just trying get comfortable is the main thing.

 Q. I want to not just during that down time but throughout all last year, did you ever have any doubts about where were you headed or what had gone wrong with what you were doing?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Not at all. I felt like last year I made some great strides. Played great in the Masters and Top-10 at the U.S. Open. I was going in the right direction. 
 My putter left me. I putted bad the rest of the year. I couldn't put together a good week. Kind of like leading into this year and kind of got the rest of my game there and anybody will tell you when you're not putting good it puts so much pressure on the rest of your game, you start not having any fun out there. You're not fun to be around for a couple weeks or a couple months a little bit. 
 I went back to the basics, stuff I used to do on the Nationwide Tour with my putting and it all kind of clicked at D.C. this year and it was like a flipped switch. Went from having putted terrible at Connecticut and the next week at D.C. I lead the field in putting just like that. 
 Ever since then I've been putting great. I went from 3-putting three times a week to haven't 3-putted three times since then.
 I couldn't tell you what it is. I wish I could market it so I could sell a lot of it. I have no clue what happened. Just kind of the switch flipped and putting great ever since.

 Q. What was the basic thing that --
BRANDT SNEDEKER: How I was releasing the putter or my follow through was off and the more I worked on it, the more I got away from what I do and -- anybody will tell you who has gone through that, biggest thing is realizing what kind putter you are, what your stroke normally does and try to get back to that, doing what you know you need to do and I try to make a perfect stroke for about a year and realized that ain't me. My stroke is a little different and I figured out what I do well and now it's back to where it was.

 Q. Are you surprised about today's round? Could it have been better?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Not at all. Probably could have been a couple shots better here or there. Missed a few birdie putts. I think I had 7, 8 birdies in the Pro-Am yesterday. I feel like it's been coming. 
 I went home after the PGA Championship on Sunday and shot 64 on my home golf course. Was kicking myself. "Why didn't I do this on Friday so I could be around?" 
 That's the way golf is. You think you lost it, it turns around and comes right back. Keep your head up and keep plugging.

 Q. So you came in this morning pretty much eager to play? 
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I couldn't wait to get to the first tee. Golfers will tell you, when you're playing good and putting good you know you're doing the right stuff, you can't wait to get the first tee. Go out there and play golf. Forget about everything else. 
 This week has -- the last six, seven weeks has been like that for me. I have no worries where I'm hitting it or putting it. Go out there and try to shoot a low number.

 Q. Where was your ball when play was stopped?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I had a 15-footer for birdie on 8. Hit a good putt. The greens were way better when they back out from squeegeeing. Didn't have quite enough speed. Kind of chopped it around 9 and made a good 10-footer for par on 9. Could have been a lot worse. Would have been better but I'll take where I finished.

 Q. Do you find coming to Greensboro, that the fans still obviously still remember you but appreciate you a little more?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Definitely. It's great to be back. People come up, we'd love for you to win two out of three. We love to see you back on the 18th green at the end of the week. 
 That's all great to see. Here it's good to see -- I see people I remember from following me around two years ago. There's probably 50 people watching me. It wasn't hard to pick out guys, familiar faces. It was kind of good to see that. Get those good vibes going again, all that kind of stuff.

 Q. You pretty much euphoric after seeing this golf course? Is that going to --
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I love this golf course. I think the Tour -- we need to play more courses like this. It's very different from how we normally play, especially a course like last week. Longest course we play on Tour, probably one of the shortest courses we play on Tour. 
 Completely different style of golf. It's just a great golf course. If it was -- greens were firm and fast, it would be single digit under par would win this tournament. Unfortunately, they're real soft because of the weather. It's still going to be a lot of fun to play.
 DOUG MILNE: All right. Brandt, congratulations on a great round. Glad you got the confidence going. Best of luck tomorrow and into the weekend.
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yup.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT