WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 19, 2009
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MARK STEVENS: I'd like to welcome Brandt Snedeker, the 2007 Wyndham winner. He's played in the event two times, got a win and made the cut in the other one. 
 He's currently 75th in the FedExCup point standings heading into the final week of the regular season. Brandt, if you start off and just talk a little bit about coming back to Greensboro and your thoughts coming into the week.
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: It's good to be back. I had a lot of great feelings back two years ago, was very special. Good to see a lot of familiar faces. Golf course is in great condition. Greens are a little slow but this time of year is what you're going to get. The rest of the golf course is fantastic. 
 Excited to be here. Playing really good the last month and a half. Haven't really gotten a whole lot of my game in the last four weeks. Hopefully it will turn around. Good stuff going on.
 MARK STEVENS: Questions.

 Q. Brandt, does it feel more normal to be back here without the billboards?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yes, it does. It's definitely -- a little weird today. They had my picture on the ticket. That was a little weird, too. No, it's definitely great to be back. 
 There's no -- I don't really feel a whole lot of pressure this year. I'm glad to be back here and be playing. I realize how important this week is for my FedExCup hopes. I realize I need to have a good week this week and play well the next couple weeks. That's the main goal right now. 
 Anytime you make the Tour Championship you have a great year. I was injured for 9 weeks. I would be more than excited if I make it to the Championship. That's my main goal right now. Obviously I want to start my year out next in Hawaii, trying to get that done.

 Q. Brandt, the fact that this is the last tournament before you start FedEx play, is it going to grow more and more as far as golfers who place more emphasis on being here to add to that point total?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: You can tell by the field this week. You see guys in the past that would have passed this tournament playing this week because they realize how important the FedExCup is and how vital it is this year, especially with the new changes to be farther up on the money list, farther up on the FedExCup point list. 
 It's very important. I think as the people come to accustomed to the FedExCup and its place in golf's Fifth Major is pretty much what going to boil out to being, it's going to be -- make this week very, very important. 
 Not for just the guys who are 125, 126 on the FedExCup point list but the guys who are in my range, 75, 50, 80, somewhere around in there, even guys in the Top 30 because you want to get as high up as possible. 
 When the points do reset going into the Tour Championship you have not only have just a shot but you have more of a legitimate shot of winning to be in the Top-10.
 MARK STEVENS: Any other questions?

 Q. Brandt, what was your injury?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I cracked a rib warming up one day at the Masters. I didn't go through my practice routine like I should have. It was real cold. Thought I pulled a muscle like anything else. Played the next week at Hilton Head, got worse throughout that week. Finally went home the Sunday at Hilton Head and got it looked at. I couldn't breathe or move. 
 I thought I had done something really bad. It was cracked, my 7th rib on the right side. Just lot of TV watching, not a whole lot of fun for me sitting at home. I don't see y'all's jobs. 
 It was tough sitting at home and watching and chomping at the bit to get out here and be playing again. I had to take time off. I was playing bad going into that. It was good in that sense to let me kind of reset the season, start over, even kind of forget how bad I was playing. 
 Sure enough came out and played after that. It was kind of a blessing in disguise.

 Q. Brandt, you mentioned ed about the points being reset from the FedExCup. Given that, you know a lot more than some PGA Tour members lead on to believe about how the points work and everything. 
 Lucas Glover seemed to be sort of confused about everything, how it goes.
 Is that something that the fact that there still is confusion, how do you feel about that and are they ever going to get it straight where people as far as being real clear?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I think the reason why the confusion, a lot of guys like to play that off as they really don't care, not thinking about it. I guarantee you 95 percent of the guys out here look at it every night. It's like guys say they don't look at the leaderboard coming down the stretch, they look at it.
 Just anything for the first time. I can guarantee you if you are around the number, 125, 100, 70 and 30, for the first four tournaments, you will be watching the projected FedExCup points list. You will be knowing exactly the scenarios. It's kind of one of those things if you're playing good it doesn't matter. You're in the Top-10 you won't see any big difference.
 If you're the guy in the 30th spot or 70th spot or 120th spot, kind of in that area, it makes a huge difference. 
 So I think it's one of those things that once we have a couple of years under the same system -- there have been tweaks the first two years. The third year they finally got it right.
 They've cut the field size down, helped. I think having the points reset so it's not a done deal by the time you get to the Tour Championship and so the Championship comes around this year it will be a legitimate shot for ten guys to win it. 
 The last couple years it's been one, two guys. It will be a completely different field and hopefully bring a lot more action. 
 We compete against football in September, October. It's going to be tough to draw fans. Having Tiger Woods playing in the Tour Championship against Phil and Ernie, all those guys, nobody knows who is going to win yet, it will be great. It will be good for golf and something we need.
 MARK STEVENS: Any other questions?

 Q. Vandy any good this year?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Just like they -- we'll surprise people. We're not going to be a powerhouse. We'll surprise some teams.

 Q. Where is the Tennessee game?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Tennessee and Florida and LSU on the road this year. Few tough road games. We're not going to be like Tennessee and egg on Urban Meyer.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT