JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 12, 2009
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Brandt, interesting to play rounds three and four in the same day. 
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Uh-huh, yeah, exactly. You know, it kind of worked out in my favor today. I was playing great today, rolling it great all day. Besides one hiccup on 18 in the morning round, I played fantastic golf all day. 
 I was a little disappointed that I didn't have more to show for it. I had a few lip-outs out there. But all in all it was is great week, and kind of a good way to follow of my play last week, too. 

 Q. How quick was the turn around? I?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I had about five minutes to run inside and change my shoes a little bit, put on a new shirt, and go straight to the tee box. Just like playing college golf all over again. No time, just keep going.

 Q. You talked about wanting to be in the mix, and you certainly were today. It worked out really well. 
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: It did. I'm kind of disappointed how I ended this morning's round because I was right there, you know, looking great going into the afternoon. I played great this afternoon. Didn't make a bogey, which is all you can ask for int he last round, to make a bunch of birdies and no bogeys, and I did that. 
 So Stricker is just playing too good. He's playing fantastic right now. It's good to see. He's a great guy, and we all wish him a lot of luck. 

 Q. Not a bad finish out there. 
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, I played nice today. Didn't make a bogey my fourth round. I played a little sloppy this morning. But I doubled 18 my third round. 
 Besides that, I played great golf all day. The golf course is playing fantastic. Just a great day to play golf. Not a whole a lot wind out there, and the golf course is in fantastic shape considering all the rain they've had this week.
 A fun day to be out there and be playing.

 Q. Fun day to be playing 36, as well? What was that like?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, you know, we didn't have much of a break. It was kind of tough. Got down on 18, went inside, changed my shoes, grabbed a sleeve of golf balls, and was on the first tee in two minute. It was a quick turnaround. 
 Kind of reminded me of my college golf days where you play 36 and just didn't stop. It worked out in my favor. I knew I was playing good, so I wanted to keep playing after finishing so bad in the morning. 
 Just kind of one of those days we don't have very often, so it's kind of nice to be on the good of it for once.

 Q. Fourth round, 7-under I think on the round.
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, 6-under. Yeah, finish hopefully tied third or something like that. I played good this week. A few mistakes here or there cost me from being right there with Strick. He played fantastic. He's gonna be a great champion and he's a great guy. Everybody out here is for him, so it's really special to see him get his second win so far this year. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT