JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 11, 2009
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Are you rested from the month off?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I am, yeah. 

 Q. First off, let me talk about the golf course itself today. Obviously Stricker is throwing some great numbers as well. You guys are scoring well. What is about this place that has allowed you to really get after the golf course?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: You know, the fairways are playing real wide right now. We'll be able to get our hands on it, so we'll have a perfect lie every time around here. And the greens are the greens are real receptive. The course is a fun course. You're gonna see a lot of birdies out there. The greens are rolling perfect right now. 
 That being said, if you're off a little bit, they can also jump up and bite you. There's some really tough holes coming in. You'll see guys making a lot of birdies out there. The pins are in pretty accessible positions right now. I'm sure will toughen up a little bit tomorrow. 
 But the course is playing this soft, you really gotta take dead aim on every hole and try to make as many birdies as you can.

 Q. What is the excitement level for really being in the mix for another win?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: It's great. I mean, last week I felt like I played really well at AT&T. I never really had a chance to feel like I was really close to breaking through with a really good round. I finally played good on Sunday.
 This week I sort of have been right where I was -- took off last week. I feel really great about my game, especially this week going into next week at the British Open. It's just nice to be in the mix again and know where my game is.

 Q. When did you feel you were really healthy and able to get back out there?
 BRANDY SNEDEKER: U.S. Open was a great test for me. Being up there and playing through all that thick rough and playing 27 on the day and seeing how my endurance held up, and I felt like I held up well. I missed the cut, but I played really well and just putted bad. 
 I really worked hard on it for the last month and a half on my putting, and the last two weeks I've putted fantastic. Hopefully I can keep doing that tomorrow and make some putts. 
 But, yeah, as far as endurance and health and ribs and everything going into tomorrow I feel great, and really no concerns whatsoever. 

 Q. Tell us about the round. 
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: It was a fun day because I made a lot of putts out there. I didn't hit the ball particularly well. I hit it great yesterday and didn't hit a whole lot, and today I hit it terrible really and made a ton of putts. So that's a lot of fun when you have those kind of rounds. You don't have them very often.
 As far as ball-striking, the last nine hole it wasn't great. That being said, you're gonna have a bad nine holes here and there with your ball-striking. Hope to get it figured out and be ready tomorrow. 

 Q. So why the difference today on the greens for you?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I don't know. My speed was perfect today. Yesterday was just a hair off. I hit a few lips yesterday. I rolled it good yesterday and was still rolling it good today. Today my speed was perfect. Just made a lot of 20- and 30-footers, which you're not used to doing out here. I'm not used to doing a lot of that. 
 It was great to know I had the speed down all day and not have to worry about, you know, how hard to hit a putt.

 Q. Are you conscious of the leaderboard?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, a little bit. You want to know where you're at. That being said, the course is very receptive right now. There's a lot of birdies to be made out there. With a 36-hole shootout tomorrow, you just want to be somewhere near the lead. 
 So much can happen tomorrow. So much golf still to be played. We're only halfway through with one day left, so if you get on a hot streak tomorrow, anybody has a chance to win. Just want to stay as close as you can to the leader right new.

 Q. How do you do that? Do you just try to pace yourself, or just open it up and go after it?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: It's gonna be one of those days where everybody is gonna have to make a lot of birdies. You can't go out there thinking if you shoot 2-under, 3-under par and be somewhere near the lead. 
 You're gonna have to go out and shoot 5- or 6-under par and know you're gonna be - hopefully - a few birdies from winning the tournament. So that's kind of nice to have that feeling and to know that you're gonna go out there and make a ton of birdies and the leader is not gonna have any feeling of comfort whatsoever because there's so much golf going into tomorrow. Just want to kind of get some rest tonight, wake up tomorrow and realize half the tournament is left and a lot can happen. 

 Q. Did the day off yesterday help you? Are you kind of relaxed and refocused for today?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Not really. I think once the tournament starts you're really into the week. You're used to your normal routine of playing Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday. 
 So it's kind of more of a nuisance than anything else having to take a day off and worry about -- you know, some guys are worries about catching the charter over to the British Open, some guys are worried about getting into next week. Some guys are worried and playing 36 holes on Sunday, if you can get it in on Sunday. 
 Now that that's all taken care of, I dont think there will be much of an issue at all. Guys are pretty excited to go out and play 36 holes tomorrow. The cut is gonna be small enough where we don't have to worry about getting done, which I think is the most important thing. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT