WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2008
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DOUG MILNE: Well, Brandt Snedeker, thanks for coming in at the Wyndham Championship. Great first round. All in all, just a few comments on the round.
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, great way to start. Played very well tee to green today. I missed a few short putts and I think I missed two greens on the back-9 and didn't get up and down either time. 
 Could have been really good and keep hitting it like I did today and make a few more putts. Also, get the putter working should be in good shape. 
 DOUG MILNE: Questions?

 Q. What's it like to be defending a champion on a fundamentally totally different course?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Obviously, it's new to me. It's the first time I've ever been. That being said, I love the area of Greensboro. The grasses are the same. The greens are running about the same speed. Obviously a little different. 
 The golf course -- actually this golf course actually sets up better for me than Forest Oaks did. This is more of a placement off the tee kind of golf course and hitting the greens and make some putts and, you know, Forest Oaks was more of a shoot-out, see how many birdies you can make. If you hit it long you had an advantage. 
 Over here you don't. You got to place it around the golf course which is kind of more suited to my game. Could not have asked for a better scenario. If they had to move it, this is a great move for me and I'm excited about it.

 Q. Is this a little different for you coming as a defending champion? Do you feel a little pressure to play a little better in front of crowds?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: No, I hadn't really felt any pressure like that at all. It's been great to have the fans out there kind recognize you and rooting you on, and the biggest thing this week is feeling all the good vibes I had here from last year. 
 I realized that everybody will tell you your first win is very special and to realize how special last year was is really starting to hit me this week when I come by and see what I accomplished and to have all those good memories coming up again has been very great. 
 It's been very good for my golf game. Anytime you have positive thoughts and positive vibes going in here, especially when I haven't been playing well of late, is very welcomed and obviously came through today with a good round.

 Q. Brandt, how are all the distractions of being defending champion?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: There haven't been any. I had to do -- got to meet Arnold Palmer last night and Richard Petty. That was great. Spent sometime with them and talked to them a little bit was pretty special and something I'll always remember. 
 Haven't been too many distractions at all. Been all great stuff. I wish I could go through this every week and had this feeling every week of the year. It's a good problem to have.

 Q. Brandt, did you sense the people are paying more attention to you today? When I was out there, looked like maybe only a few dozen people were in your group at that time.
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah. Kind of see it around town. I guess they postered my face up enough around town where people start recognizing. See something with my ugly mug on it. People have gotten behind me a little bit and I need it. I need all the help I can get at this point.

 Q. Is that the first time you've seen your mug on a billboard?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yes, it is. That is the first time.

 Q. Describe where you were when you saw it and was your driving at all impaired?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: It was. I definitely rubber-necked a little bit. I didn't really know it was going to be there. They hadn't told me there was going to be a billboard. 
 Actually my fiancee saw it, she was in the car with me and I almost choked. I started laughing, of course, when I saw it and, you know, just one of those things you never really think about. It was there. I couldn't help but laugh. I thought it was funny looking but it's a great picture so I need to get it sent home.

 Q. Who was driving?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I was driving. Didn't hit anybody but I definitely swerved. I haven't gone back by it yet but I probably need to get the good vibes going again.
 DOUG MILNE: Anybody else?

 Q. If you win again, what would the next marketing step be in this town?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Be on the side of a building. Would that be next? That's what I expect next time. I'll talk to Brazil wherever he is. Maybe next year if I happen to sneak out a win this year I want to be on the side of a building downtown. Definitely an upgrade.

 Q. You said you've been struggling with your game a little bit. What kind of clicked today that hasn't been clicking recently?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I really drove the ball very well today. I put myself in a lot of really good positions off the tee and my short irons, which have been struggling a little bit with my distance control and getting them close were all on today. 
 I think I had three, four birdies within a two feet of the hole. That was 8, 9-irons that I stuck in there close. When you do that you're going to play well. It was definitely a good day for that.
 DOUG MILNE: Okay. If you wouldn't mind just real quickly running through your birdies.
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Birdied No. 2. I hit about 140 yards, hit a 9-iron in there about four feet behind the hole. 
 Birdied No. 6. I hit a 7-iron from 170 yards to about a foot. Birdied No. 8. Hit a sand wedge from about 105 yards to about three feet. Ten, I hit an 8-iron from about 160 yards to a foot.
 14, I missed the green just left with a 7-iron. Rolled down the rough. I was unable to get up and down. Hit about 15 feet and missed the putt. 
 15, I hit a rescue from about 240 to about 30 feet and two-putted. 16, I hit an 8-iron in there about 5 feet, 6 feet left of the hole and made. 18, I hit a driver, missed the fairway just to the left. Hit it up short right of the green, hit a bad chip shot and chipped it up and made a bogey. 
 All in all, a good day.
 DOUG MILNE: Brandt, thanks for your time. We always appreciate it. Best of luck tomorrow.
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Thanks guys. Appreciate it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT