WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2008
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOAN vt ALEXANDER: Alright. I'd like to thank Brandt Snedeker for joining us here at the Wyndham Championship. First victory on the PGA TOUR. Great memories.
 Obviously we're not playing the same course but just talk a little bit about that, about Sedgefield and then we'll go into questions.
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Very excited about being back. Obviously Greensboro meant a lot to me over the last year and very excited to be back. Obviously Sedgefield is a new golf course. They've done a great thing by moving here. I have some fond memories of Forest Oaks. 
 I'm glad to be here. The golf course is fantastic. It's definitely a great venue. I think it's going to be better for the tournament and Wyndham and all the sponsors and everybody involved.
 It's a course that fits -- sets up great for me and is in great shape and just looking forward to teeing it up on Thursday and hopefully get some of those good memories going again.
 JOAN vt ALEXANDER: Questions, please.

 Q. What do you say your goal is in terms of the Ryder Cup and do you plan -- is this one reason this is important to you and the next couple weeks?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yes, very. The Ryder Cup is obviously something that's very important to me, it's one of my life-long goals and to have a chance this year, something that was my goal starting the year was to make the Ryder Cup team. 
 I have a chance. I have to go out and play some great golf the next three weeks and impress the Captain. This is a very big week for that. Let him know I'm worthy. I've got to go out and play some good golf on Thursday. Not worry about come Thursday morning, I'm not going to worry about the Ryder Cup, I'm going to be worried about the first tee shot and having a good time, enjoying this week.

 Q. What do you feel like it's going to take for you to get?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Just good golf. Go out there and win or -- win a tournament or, if not win, be close. I think -- who knows. It's up to him. He's got the final say. 
 I had my chance to make the team. I didn't do it. For whatever reason, wasn't able to close the deal last couple months. Left it up to him. Hopefully I can play good and show him I want to be on the team and love nothing more than to be on that team.

 Q. Brandt, a few weeks ago when you were here you said the course sets up well for you. Do you have to kind of convince yourself of that since you won on the other course?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Not really. I was very fortunate. They called me and asked me what kind of golf course I would like love to switch to, this would be pretty much A-plus for me. 
 This golf course is a golf course all about placement. Playing very firm and fast right now. Lot of three woods and irons off tees which we don't see a whole lot of out here on Tour anymore. 
 It's very good for us. It's a different kind of golf course from Forest Oaks. The green complexes are very difficult, lot of slope and the greens are -- require a lot of imagination around them.
 It's something that suits my game to a T and I love Donald Ross golf courses. I love old traditional golf courses. Could not have asked for a better venue.

 Q. What did this winning here do for you last year into this year?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: A lot. It was very instrumental in my development as a player, as my growth out here. It kind of gave me that confident step going over that hump, let me feel like I compete in Majors. 
 I give it all the credit for helping me in the Masters and U.S. Open going into that. It helped me get over that hump of playing with the top tier players on Tour and really feeling like I belong out here. It's hard for a rookie to find unless you do it. It's very instrumental in my development.

 Q. You mentioned the Donald Ross courses. Which are your favorite Donald Ross courses?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Pinehurst No. 2 always been my favorite. Very traditional and simple and very tough. This one is obviously similar in some aspects just because of Donald Ross. The green complexes are very tough, lot of run-offs, and chipping is very important around this place. I love that aspect of it.
 Trying to think. Donald Ross. There's very few traditional ones left. They've all been kind of doctored up. This is great to see a lot of the stuff he did still intact. It's very good to see that. You don't see that too much anymore.

 Q. Don't know if you're aware of the Olympics right now during this time period. There's been some talk, push to get golf into the Olympic Games.
 I want to know your thoughts about whether you think it should be an Olympic sport and, if so, if it's something you would be interested in or you think others on Tour would be interested in anticipating in?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I think the theories behind it sounds great. I don't know how you're going to possibly do that during the middle of the most important part of our season is to make -- I don't know how you could do that ever.
 Obviously anytime you get a chance to represent your country is very special. To be able to play for a Gold Medal would be something that obviously I couldn't even comprehend because golf has never been an Olympic sport. Something that would be very special.
 I'm a big Michael Phelps fan. Watching it gives you a lot pride in your country and makes you feel real good about yourself when you see him being as successful as he has been.

 Q. Would you think it would be a traditional tournament or maybe you do something like match play-type thing and invite the world Top 50 or 60 players?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I don't know where to begin on that. I don't know how you would even go about what countries would qualify, how you do a qualifying process, so on and so forth. Such a big undertaking. I don't know how you could start to formulate a plan to do it.
 I like the way it is right now. I don't have a problem with the schedule at all. Kind of like the FedExCup playoffs and excited about the way we have it set-up right now. I couldn't imagine throwing a new wrench into it.
 JOAN vt ALEXANDER: Anymore questions? Alright Brandt. I appreciate your time.
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Thank you. Appreciate it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT