PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 7, 2008
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   BRANDT SNEDEKER: It was a tough day, the fairways are so hard to hit right now, they're so firm.   
  
  Q. Talk about 17.   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I actually hit the green. I don't know how. It hit short in the rough and kind of bounded about 15 feet. So I was very lucky to stay on the putting surface and make a good par, so.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: You got to hit the fairway. Plain and simple. Fairways are so firm right now that anything out of the rough you're going to be hoping for a good par putt out of it.   
 And you just got to somehow get it in the fairway and keep it in the fairway and it's just so tough to do that though.  
  
  Q. Did you hit many drivers?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I did. I hit drivers a lot just because I figured that I'm hitting everything else crooked right now, so I might as well be closer to the green.   
 So didn't hit too many fairways on my back nine, just scrambled and made a lot of eight and nine footers for pars, which you got to do.  
  
  Q. Talk about the rough there, they're fluffing it up, is it strange?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, I mean, it's one of the few tournaments where they're actually raking the rough against you, which is, I mean the course is hard enough as it is.   
 So it would be kind of nice to take it easy on us for a day or something. But they're wanting to make it play tough and it's playing tough.  
  
  Q. What did you hit into 17?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: 3-iron, smoked it. As far as I can hit it.  
  
  Q. Have you actually seen a rake?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I don't know what they're doing out there, but I've seen a lot of grass growing this way off the tees and it looks like it shouldn't be growing that way on every hole. So they're definitely raking it.   
  
  Q. Pretty quiet out there when you resumed?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: A little rowdy here and there. I was sandwiched in between J.D., D.J., and Ernie Els and Adam Scott and those guys. So there's some loud fans out there still. They're having fun. There's not a whole lot of people out there to calm it down. So it was fun.  
  
  Q. What did you do during the break?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Ate a couple meals and sat on the couch. Not a whole lot.  
  
  Q. A couple meals?   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: A couple meals, yeah. You get bored you are sitting there and the buffet is there, you eat a couple times, come out hit a few balls and was good to go. The delay wasn't long enough to where it was a problem.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I do. It's fun. You know if you hit good shots you'll be rewarded, but sometimes you hit good shots and you're not rewarded.   
 But that's the way it is. It's a Major, it's not supposed to be easy, and it makes it when you make a couple clutch pars or get up-and-down that much more critical.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT