STANFORD ST. JUDE CHAMPIONSHIP
June 8, 2008
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I hit it really well, probably the best I hit it all week. Shot my worst score. It's very disappointing. I putted bad. I was tough on myself today. Kind of one of those days everything went wrong.  
  
  Q. This was one for the taking out there. You figured somebody can go 65, 64 had a great chance to walk away with the trophy.  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Everybody was kind of right there. I thought I hit it good enough to do that, and just my mental game is a little bit off right now. It's just little frustrating to be home town and chance to win. I'll be back next year.  
  
  Q. Playing in this tournament this week, how does it get you prepared for Torrey Pines next week?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I played extremely well the last two days. I put myself in A1 position and didn't do anything good with it. Torrey, you have to drive it in play at all times. It's a great course. This is a tough golf course. I was very patient on the back-9 out there today.   
 It was something good to find out. Great test for next week. Great warmup. Wish I could have played better today. But all in all, that's it.  
  
  Q. How do you feel going into the Open?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I feel a little worn down from 95-degree heat every day. My game feels sharp. I can't make anything. Sometimes you go through times like this. Hopefully, we'll turn it around.  
 We've got a chance to play very tough golf course under firm tough conditions. That's great for this tournament. I'll always be here. I think the scores -- the scoring, 5, 6, 7-under par is great for the tournament. Keeps guys wanting to come back and play the golf tournament.  
  
  Q. Do you think the elements you mentioned, the wind, you think that was the part that made it tough?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: There's just enough wind today blowing 10, 15 miles an hour just to make every club very hard to pull, and the greens being as firm as they are, it's tough. It's a very clear test of golf.   
 I think Justin is leading right now. Whoever wins did a good job of managing their emotions and golf game and putting up good shots when they needed to.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT