MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 13, 2008
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   LARRY PUGH: I know this week did not turn out the way you wanted it to, but you had a great week and congratulations on a great week and the fans around this course appreciate the way you played and the way you handled yourself. 
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Try to take some questions, I can't guarantee anything right now. I'm still obviously a little emotional. 
 Just a rough day out there. You know, it's hard to put that much effort into something and get so little out. But it's just part of life, part of growing up. Obviously I need a lot more of that. It's just tough right now. So ask away and I'll do my best. 

 Q. I know it was tough for you, but nobody was really doing anything with the golf course. What is it about today and this golf course that created such problems?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Had to be the swirling wind. You just never really felt comfortable no matter how good you're playing or how well you thought you were striking the golf ball. The wind could come up or come down and affect your golf ball so dramatically and it was the same way on the greens. It was just a day you never really felt comfortable.
 Obviously if you didn't feel comfortable at all and didn't try to fight through it, you struggled, and that's what I did. So, live and learn. 

 Q. How well did Trevor play?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Phenomenal. The last two days I don't think I've ever seen anybody drive the ball as well as that, anywhere. It was just an unbelievable display of ball-striking. When he got in trouble, he got right out of it. He made a little hiccup on 16, but you're going to do that when you're trying to win your first major. I hiccuped my whole way around the golf course but he held it in there for 15 holes, but he played great.

 Q. What you take from this Masters final round?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Hopefully a lot. Obviously being in the final pairing two days is something I'm very proud of; to be coming back here next year, hopefully we won't end up here in tears all over again. (Laughter).
 But you know, I found out a lot about myself today, and obviously a lot about myself right now. So we'll keep working. 

 Q. What did you expect coming in here this week? 
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Certainly not this. I was expecting hopefully a good week. I felt like I was playing well and I felt like I was doing the right stuff. Just a couple weeks where I felt like I was putting it great and hitting it pretty good and unfortunately today the putter left me a little bit and just got me in some bad trouble and didn't drive it particularly well. But all in all, if you told me at the beginning of the week would I have to take a tied for third, I'd say heck, yes, and watch it on TV.
 But given the position today going into the final round, it was not a very enjoyable last 14, 15 holes. 

 Q. What does it say about Trevor, here is a guy who four months ago has surgery and could not walk for a couple weeks; he's on the lead the entire week, and really, up until 16, does not allow the door to even be propped open. 
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Pretty phenomenal, you think about those kind of conditions out there, until 16, I think he was, what, 1-over for the day, one of best rounds of the day, so he just -- I was very impressed. I've played with very few golfers who can manage their emotions, manage their swing and manage the golf course that well. 
 He missed some short putts to do that, he'll tell you, didn't putt that great today. If he had putted great it still wasn't really close but it wouldn't have been anywhere in the ballpark of close. That's pretty phenomenal.

 Q. Almost two years ago you were playing down the road in a Nationwide event in Athens, and two years later you're in the final group. 
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I know. 

 Q. Talk about that journey. 
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Pretty phenomenal, to be there two years ago, struggling to be a professional golfer and to be here, chronicled in front of a bunch of media in front of a million people -- (laughter). I'm sure I'll be getting ribbed for the next two months about this. 
 But just a great story, you know, to be here and have a chance to win my first major, and not pull it out but hopefully learn a lot about the process and be ready to go come the U.S. Open.

 Q. Can you talk about the range of emotions after the eagle on 2?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I think I'd put myself in psychiatric ward; put it that way. I went from extreme highs to extreme lows and that's what you don't want to do around here. You try to level yourself out. I felt like I did a good job. I never really got too down on myself. But, man, just a lot of emotion, you know. 

 Q. Could you look back, please, at any one point in the round where it seemed -- you realized it was slipping away, and what one thing might have done it, and what did you try to do to get it back?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: 13 was probably the pivotal hole. Great putt on 12 to get back to I think 5-under or 6-under for the Tournament and really, 13, I had a 4-iron in that hole and, golly, man, if somebody could tell me how to play that second shot, I'd love to know, because two days in a row I've hit it right in the middle of that damn water. 
 Told myself not to do it, I tried to pull it and still couldn't do it. It's tough, when you're looking eagle/birdie in the face, and you walk out with bogey, you know, could have put a little pressure on Trevor right there and hope things might have been a little different. 

 Q. At the turn on 9 and 11, Trevor made really big saves for par and made some good putts of the just seemed like any time there was a crack in the door --
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: He did. His resolve, I guess the best way to put it, was phenomenal. He definitely had some chances where he could have buckled today and in those kind of conditions, he put himself in a terrible spot on 11 and made a great pitch shot and a great putt, and you know, he will really couple bad breaks out there on 12, ended up in the pine straw where he did and let it roll off his back and played some great golf. It was pretty fun to watch. 

 Q. Were you two guys at the top aware of Tiger or what he was doing or did you feel that was where the threat would come from pretty much? 
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: You know, you knew he was going to be there, but no, I thought Flesch had a chance until he doubled 12, and hit it in the water on 12 I guess. He was playing great till then. 
 After that, it was Trevor on his own, hoping Trevor was going to make a mistake -- I had a chance on 13, and I think that's was the pivotal hole. He laid up and played a great wedge shot and made birdie and I've got a 4-iron in my hand and made bogey. So if I could have done that, that might have been a little different. 

 Q. How frustrating was it, usually when you get an eagle or birdie you're able to string it together and you weren't able to do that today. 
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, that might have been one of the worst breaks I've got in professional golf on 3. Just never -- I've never had a plug lie on a fairway bunker before. I couldn't believe it. That's part of it, you know. You get bad breaks out there, Trevor hit in a divot on 18 and hit a great shot to the front of the green and you've got to overcome it and I didn't today. We'll figure it out.

 Q. Obviously it there, the emotion. How would you describe it right now? Are you proud? What is the emotion you're feeling right now. 
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: You know, I have no clue why I am so emotional. I was laughing outside. I'm crying in here. I couldn't tell you. You know, it's just -- (tearing up. )
 LARRY PUGH: Brandt, thank you very much. You had a great week and thank you for coming in here. (Applause).







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT