MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2008
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Simple first question. What would you call Amen Corner after today?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I think I figured out why they call it Amen Corner. That's the best way to put it. I didn't really hit a bad shot, didn't really feel disgusted with myself afterwards. I went through the same process I've always gone through, and they just didn't come off the way they're supposed to. I tried to minimize my mistakes and didn't make any double bogeys and I told myself I was playing great golf and to keep doing it.  
  
  Q. How challenging was it to come back from that the way you did?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: It was tough. The 14th tee shot was the most important shot of the day because if I hit a bad shot there, the wheels could have easily come off, and I stood up there and hit a great shot. It's been a tough tee shot for me all week. Luckily that putt on 14 went in. I pulled it a little bit and it still sat on the left edge, and after that I got things going. I realized that it's a long week and there's a lot of golf left and just kind of hang in there.  
  
  Q. You weren't really demonstrative on 18, very comfortable. What did the finish mean to you?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: A huge amount. I mean, any time you've got a six-footer around here, I don't care what day it is or what's going on, if you're trying to win a golf tournament, you need to make them. You don't want to leave Trevor too much in the lead because he's playing fantastic golf. Tee to green, that's as good as I've ever seen anybody hit a golf ball.  
  
  Q. Four names on the top of the leaderboard, and the fifth one is Tiger. What is your awareness of him or concern about him at all?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: The guy I'm most concerned with right now is Trevor Immelman. Trevor Immelman is leading this golf tournament; he's two ahead of me. He's got a big lead. On this golf course it can be one hole, but he's playing fantastic golf right now, and I'm sure Tiger is going to be there somewhere back nine tomorrow. I'm sure he'll be doing it. So I'll worry about that when it comes.  
  
  Q. They talk about conditions are going to get worse, winds are going to pick up. Talk about playing in those conditions and also it being a major championship.   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I think it's great. I think you're going to identify the player who's playing the best tomorrow. The tougher the conditions, the better. You're going to put more emphasis on staying patient, short game, everything, driving the golf ball, hitting the ball solid. That's exactly what you want to try to identify in a major championship, and that's what we're going to find out tomorrow.  
  
  Q. I asked all the guys this question. Tomorrow can change your life forever. How do you manage that, that fact?   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I mean, it's not going to change who I am. It's not going to change anything about me. I'm going to play as good as I possibly can, try to make everybody in Nashville and Sea Island proud and have a good time.  
  
  Q. What's prepared you for tomorrow, final group, Sunday Masters?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: A lot of hard work. I've put in a lot of hard work over the last four years since I've been a pro. It kind of all started here. It's kind of funny how it's come full circle, how four years ago I was playing here as an amateur and now I'm back here as a pro.   
 I realize how much hard work I put in, and today and hopefully tomorrow will be a culmination of it and just go out there and realize I've hit a lot of golf balls and I've done a lot of stuff and just go out there and have fun and play some golf.  
  
  Q. Does it get frustrating when you're hitting these great shots and then Trevor kind of matches you one for one where you feel like you might be stepping up?  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Not at all. Today he was putting myself in position. He's not running away from the field yet. He's still got a lot of golf to go. All you can do is play your own game and kind of figure it out tomorrow.   
 First time you'll start paying attention to the leaderboard is on 13 or 14 tomorrow afternoon, so just kind of go in there and have that kind of attitude.  
  
  Q. What did you see on his third shot on 15 when that ball started -- describe what you saw.   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I saw the exact same -- he had the exact same feeling I had on Friday because I did the exact same thing. It hung up there somehow, I don't know. Just a little moisture helped him out. He really didn't hit that bad a shot and it just kind of came up a little short. Those are the kind of breaks you need when you're trying to win a golf tournament. He took that and got up-and-down for par and saved a couple shots there, so that's great.  
  
  Q. Is there a way you sleep better tonight not being in the lead than being in the lead like he might be?   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I'm going to sleep fine. I got ten hours of sleep last night and I'm sure I'll get about the same tonight. It's like going back to my college days; I'll be able to sleep in until about 10:00 or 11:00 in the morning.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT