MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2008
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   BRANDT SNEDEKER: Going into the weekend it's going to be playing tougher and windier, so it's going to be fun, so hopefully I can keep it around par.

 Q. You were last here in 2004. Big change for you to come back after so long?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, the course has changed, everything has changed. I've changed a little bit, hopefully all for the better. I miss being able to say that the other way around. I was a whole lot nicer guy back then maybe. But it's been fun. I've grown up a lot, my life has changed a lot and it's been a good kind of maturation process.

 Q. You seem more relaxed. What do you attribute that to? Are you just going out there having fun?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Pretty much. You ask anybody out here, they'd all love to have a chance to play Augusta National, let alone in tournament conditions, and that's what I get to do. I enjoy it, have fun. I feel like I'm playing good golf. I'm rolling the ball extremely well right now, which is what you have to do around here, and that just gets me excited about playing golf. I feel comfortable out there, knowing that no matter what I'm doing or how I'm hitting it, I always have a chance of making a putt so that's always a good feeling going into the weekend.

 Q. You've played this course so many times. Does it kind of have the feeling of a home course to you?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, I've played here a bunch. I've seen pretty much every inch of this golf course. As you can see, I kind of hit it everywhere, so I saw a bunch more of it today. 
 It makes me feel comfortable knowing I've played this golf course a bunch and knowing where I can miss it and where I can't, and I'm just trying to minimize my mistakes when I can.

 Q. You talked about 2004 sleeping in the Crow's Nest with socks on your feet because the beds weren't long enough. Could you imagine back then being in this position today?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: You always think about it, but obviously not this soon. This has been a great first two days. I could not have written out a better first two days, and I'm right where I want to be going into the weekend. But now the fun starts. The first two days you kind of find out where you are, and the weekend you separate the men from the boys, so we'll see how well I've matured going into the weekend.

 Q. What did you learn about yourself last year that you apply here now?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: More than anything else, to believe in yourself. Last year it was -- it took me a lot, I kind of backed my way into playing a great year. I never really believed that I was as good as I ended up playing last year, and when you finally get back and take a full scope over my whole year last year, I realized I played some great golf and I need to kind of pat myself on the back a little bit more and realize that I am a good player and I do belong out here.

 Q. Why do you say that, that you never really believed that? 
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I think most guys are like that. Most guys really don't know how good they are until they get out there and do something, until we get out there in the heat the battle and win a golf tournament when we need to. It's one level to be on the Nationwide Tour; it's a completely different level to be out here on the PGA TOUR and do it. 
 I didn't really know how good I was until Greensboro last year, until I won. I got to see myself and realize I can hold up under some pressure. I'm going to pull on my experience a whole lot over the weekend because I'm going to need it.

 Q. The last couple days comes down to how strong you are in the head. That's really what it comes down to. 
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Pretty much, yeah. Around this place it's about staying patient, which is extremely hard to do, because this course is waiting for you to make a mistake. And realizing you're going to make some mistakes, you're going to make a couples bogies, There's no way you can play this course perfectly, and to have fun with it. 
 Now, at the end of the day you're playing a sport, playing a game for a living. There are about 200 million people that would trade positions with me in a heartbeat, so I'm going to enjoy it while I'm doing it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT