MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2008
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Pretty good day for you?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Very good. I can't really complain. I hit two good shots on 18, got a bad break. Pretty good putt and it didn't go in. That's going to happen sometimes. I'm rolling it great, so I'll try to keep thinking the way I'm thinking right now and kind of be patient out there. It's going to be a tough next three days.

 Q. How did it feel to come back after 2004?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: It's been kind of eerie this whole time, kind of pinching myself thinking I'm back playing as a professional. Most golfers wait their whole career to get here, and I've done it in four years. Last time I was kind of taking in all the sights and looking at the crowd and looking all over the place, and this time I'm trying to realize I'm here playing a golf tournament and trying to win it.

 Q. What was it like playing with Tom Watson?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: It was phenomenal. He was one of my idols growing up. I look up to him so much and I love the way he swings the club. It's kind of a dream day to be out there playing the way I am and playing with him. It's one of those things I'll look back on forever and realize how special it was.

 Q. How is the course playing?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: It's playing great. The fairways are still a hair soft, but the greens are really starting to firm up. Greens are starting to get that nice little purple tint to them when you know they're on the brink of being ridiculously fast. Besides that the golf course is phenomenal. If you hit a bad putt out there and it's not going in, it's you, it's not the golf course.

 Q. Was this the easy day today?
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: I don't know. I thought the pins today were pretty tough. They had a lot of good pins out there. Hopefully they'll get a little bit easier over the next couple days, but you never know. They can switch it up a little bit and move the tees here and there. I thought it was a very fair setup today. I thought it was kind of a fun setup. Some of the par-3 tees are up and some of the par-4s tees are up, which for me it was nice.

 Q. This is your fifth round here. Is this enough for you to actually believe? 
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: It's my fifth round competitively but I've played down here probably 60 or 70 times. I thought they were going to change the amateur rule in '04 because I came down probably every weekend for about three or four months. I think the members got tired of seeing me down here. I've been back a bunch of times after the Masters. This year I came back three or four times trying to get familiar with the golf course so I don't feel out of my element when I'm out here playing in a major championship. I've played here a bunch and feel comfortable on the golf course. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT