FBR OPEN
January 31, 2008
Kenny Perry
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  How was it out there? 
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:  Frigid.  You know, I think my car said 38 when I got out, and I didn't warm up until probably the second hole of the day really where I felt like my hands felt normal again.  That breeze out there is pretty cool right now. 

 Q.  How long will it take you to get rid of what happened with your driver on the last hole? 
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:  It's gone.  I can't do anything about it now.  I obviously made some really good swings with my irons today, made a few loose ones with my driver, but really excited with the way I hit it and putted it today.  Nothing but positives.  I'm in great shape after the first round and looking forward to the rest of the tournament. 

 Q.  A couple guys before came in saying that the course is playing long and soft.  Could you talk about how long? 
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:  Yeah, I guess they have new fairways here so they're in great shape but they're just kind of soft right now, which is understandable with this kind of weather right now, so balls are just not really releasing like we're used to having it release here.  That being said, it was cold and windy today, so some holes played shorter than they normally do and some holes played longer.  It just seemed like the tough holes played long today for some reason. 

 Q.  How did you keep yourself warm?  How did you warm up? 
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:  You know, it's funny, I was going out there when it was freezing hitting it everywhere, hitting it terrible, couldn't feel my hands.  Then we had about a 30-minute delay which helped a ton because otherwise those first three or four holes would have been brutal.  I think the greens were frozen right about until I teed off, so the first couple groups might have played on frozen greens the first couple holes.  It was very frigid. 

 Q.  You guys got each other across the finish line there, 67, but you bogeyed the last hole, so you didn't play very good cart golf, did you? 
 KENNY PERRY:  He wasn't a good leader.  He hit it left, so I said, I ain't going left.  I hit it way out to the right and we were both in the crap.  But all in all, we both had a good day.  He played beautifully and I made lots of birdies and we kind of fed off each other and it kind of made it a pretty easy round. 

 Q.  How cold was it this morning?  How hard were those greens?  Were they frozen? 
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:  We had a 30-minute delay, thank God, otherwise those first few holes would have been pretty bad.  It was still very cold this morning.  I thought by the third and fourth hole I started feeling pretty good, feeling my hands again, and it was just a good day.  We fed off each other, and Kenny played great.  I loved watching him drive the ball on every hole, so it kind of let me know where I needed to hit it on every hole. 

 Q.  It seems to happen on Thursday and Friday on the PGA TOUR.  When another player is playing well, do you feed off that other guy? 
 KENNY PERRY:  Yeah, it happens a lot.  A lot of times it has the adverse effect.  A guy is shooting 8- or 9-under and you're only 1- or 2-under and you feel like you're hacking out there.  But most of time when one guy gets it going he'll kind of feed off the other two and kind of drag them along. 
 We both kind of made alternating birdies here and there early in the round, and we just kind of kept it going throughout the round.  We had a good best ball, I think, today. 

 Q.  New England or the Giants?  Who's going to win this week? 
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:  I've got to go with the Giants.  I'm going to pick the underdog.  I'm hoping that Strahan and Umenyiora here go after them, you know? 
 KENNY PERRY:  Patriots are going to get after the '72 Dolphins. 

 Q.  You both shoot the same score, 4-under, 67s.  Did you do a little drafting out there with each other? 
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:  Yeah, we did.  I had a really good solid front nine, then Kenny got it going on the back nine, started making birdies everywhere, and he kind of left me in the dust there for a little bit.  But Kenny is a great guy.  We hit it about 30 miles apart.  I just love seeing him hit a golf ball.  It's fun watching him drive that golf ball on the golf course. 

 Q.  You know, this is Tennessee against Kentucky. 
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:  It is.  Even though we're neighbors he's in a different state, but he's a great guy.  I've always admired him.  Hopefully I can keep -- we can both keep playing like we're playing right now. 

 Q.  I always think the world kind of got introduced to Brandt Snedeker last year at the Buick out at Torrey Pines.  Now it's just a week later this year and you're on your game again. 
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:  Yeah, a little disappointed the way I played last week.  I wanted to pull up some of those good memories again, but unfortunately didn't do it last week.  This week it seems like it kind of carried over this week.  I feel like I'm playing great and I can just kind of get out of my own way and play some good golf. 

 Q.  Give me a couple comments about DJ Gregory. 
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:  Yeah, great kid, great story.  The way he's always smiling on the golf course, nothing but inspiration.  I feel bad, I played bad for him at Sony.  He followed me all four days.  But he's a great kid.  We had dinner last week together and look forward to seeing him out every week this year. 

 Q.  Anything fun happen the week he was following you or anything since then?  I know Boo went to dinner with him. 
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:  Yeah, he got a picture of me.  Unfortunately I had a little quirk in Hawai'i.  I got in a little sewage drain area so I got into mud about up to my knees and he sent me a picture on email giving me a hard time about it and stuff. 
 We went to dinner last week.  We probably once a month go out to dinner and see how he's doing because it's a great story, bringing a lot of awareness about cerebral palsy out here.  He's got such a great outlook on everything and he's laughing through -- it's awful to watch him walk out there because he struggles so hard to do it but he absolutely loves to do it.  It just makes you smile and realize how lucky you are to be doing what we do. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT