MERCEDES-BENZ CHAMPIONSHIP
January 3, 2008
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Most first-timers that come here, usually they don't find a lot of success, but for 16 holes today you were right at the top of the leaderboard.  What worked for you? 
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:  My wedge game was great today.  I was able to drive it well most of the day and leave myself just a bunch of short irons into greens and I made some good putts.  You do that, if your wedge game is on, you can shoot low.  Hopefully tomorrow I can do the same thing. 

 Q.  Some technical difficulties on 17, what happened? 
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:  I've had that driver for a long time, and I guess finally it had too much and cracked on me, and the ball ended up going 180 yards right in the middle of the water.  I thought I hit a great drive.  But that happens.  Unfortunately it happened at a bad time, and 18 was no fun playing a 660-yard par 5 with 3-wood off the tee.  No complaints, though.  That's going to happen.  I'm glad it happened today and it didn't happen on Sunday. 

 Q.  When you take a look back at what you accomplished last year, Rookie of the Year, the win, surprised at all how quickly you came out here and made such a big impact? 
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:  Yeah, definitely.  I certainly didn't see it coming.  I thought I had the game, I thought I could compete, but to come out here and have that kind of rookie season was something I really wasn't -- didn't get myself up for, but now that I'm there I have to work even harder now and make sure I don't slump back and keep improving. 

 Q.  Goals for 2008? 
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:  Ryder Cup is first and foremost in my mind.  To represent your country is such an honor.  Azinger is the captain.  If I get Ryder Cup taken care of, it would be a pretty unbelievable year and something I'm looking forward to. 

 Q.  Taking your driver out of the bag.  Did you have something in reserve hopefully? 
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:  I've got a backup but I've never hit it so we're going to find out.  I'm probably going to get a couple sent over here so we're not freaking out on the range tomorrow trying to find something that works.  It's a great driver, I've loved it for two years.  I guess I'll have to switch now. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT