BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 8, 2007
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Make a comment on your Saturday. 
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:  I made a lot of putts.  You know, I made a lot of par saves, I made a lot of 10-, 12-footers for birdie, and when you do that, you give yourself a chance.  I hit it pretty well off the tee today, didn't get myself in too much trouble and was able to scramble when I did.  So it was a fun day. 

 Q.  Interesting month for you.  You won Wyndham, and this is the best round since then.  To what do you attribute kind of the leveling off?  You started 9th in the FedExCup points because of the win, now you're 17.  What do you attribute having kind of a sour first two events? 
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:  Unfortunately during the course of the year you have your down times, and I put a little too much pressure on myself to try to get in the FedExCup Playoffs and unfortunate didn't play well.  So hopefully now that I'm kind of down the list a little bit and I've got to do some work to get back up on top of it, I'm starting to be a little bit more positive, a little bit more patient, and today was a good day moving back up toward the top of the leaderboard. 

 Q.  Do you have a goal for the FedExCup?  Is there somewhere you want to finish at the end of East Lake? 
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:  Yeah, I mean, I definitely want to be up in the Top 5.  I want to be one of the guys to have a chance to win the tournament.  To do that, I've got to play extremely well tomorrow.  There's a lot of points next week, so I have a chance of getting in the top 10, top 8, so I really have to play well tomorrow and give myself a chance going into East Lake. 

 Q.  What is your mindset tomorrow, a lot of birdies, ultra aggressive, or just stick to your normal game plan? 
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:  You know, I'm going to be aggressive.  I think that's the good thing about where I am right now, I really don't have nowhere to go.  I really have to made a lot of birdies, I'm four or five back going into tomorrow, so that's a good mindset to have.  I know exactly what I have to do, and hopefully I can do it. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT