WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2007
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DOUG MILNE:  Okay.  I'd like to welcome Brandt Snedeker to the interview room.  Thanks for stopping by.   
 Coming off a good one, T 18 last week that bumped you up to 26th on the FedExCup race.   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:  Yeah.   
 DOUG MILNE:  Just a couple of comments.  You're in the midst of a great year, five Top-10s.  Just a couple comments on the year and how you're playing as we go into the Wyndham Championship.   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:  It's been an exciting year.  Kind of an unknown for me.  I didn't know I was going to be playing this well this week.   
 Being a rookie out here.  Being fun.  Kind of work on some stuff last six, seven weeks.  Been clicking.  Give myself a lot of birdie chances, making some putts.  Played great today.  Feel like my game is getting in good shape for the FedExCup.   
 That's why I'm excited trying to jump some guys who are taking the week off and try to get my seeding as high as possible going into the last four tournaments.  Excited to be here.   
 DOUG MILNE:  Okay.  We'll open it up to some questions, guys.  Ron?   
  
  Q.  Speaking of trying to jump up a few spots, are you surprised more guys didn't use this week to do that and, in fact, seemed to go the other way?   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:  Yeah, I am.  I thought this would be -- I thought they would try to play this week -- the way I understand the FedExCup and the way it's explained to me, every position that you're ahead of somebody else is points that you're getting starting out so I took the week of Reno off just for that fact so I could play here, knowing that some guys would be taking this week off I can jump up a couple spots and hopefully if I play well, you know, jump four, five, six, seven eight spots.  Make a big difference coming down the stretch the last two, three tournaments.   
 I like playing golf.  I like doing this.  I was going to come here anyway.  It's just -- it works out a little bit better that way, trying to get as high as you can going into what is relatively an unknown.  Nobody really knows what's going to happen.   
 It's exciting and I look forward to it.   
  
  Q.  You could conceivably play what, seven, eight weeks in a row?   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:  Six.  If I play out it will be six.   
  
  Q.  How do you prepare for a stretch like that?   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:  You know, I guess when I played on the Nationwide Tour I played nine, ten weeks in a row because I'm kind of used to it the last two years.   
 You know, with the excitement and playing against the best fields in golf the last four weeks, I don't think being tired is going to be a factor.  I think I'm going to be very amped up to play.   
 I have no problem getting plenty of rest.  I'm still young, 26.  Fatigue shouldn't be too much of an issue.  I'm used to playing a lot of golf.  When I'm playing good I kind of want to keep playing and play into form.   
 Hopefully I can keep it going.  I'm sure I'll play terrible this week having said that.  Hopefully I can keep it going the next couple tournaments.   
  
  Q.  Young guy like you, might you be more excited about the FedExCup than some of the veterans who are saying they might not play this first event and whatever?   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:  You know, I'm very excited about it.  I think the FedEx did a great thing by stepping up and being a sponsor that they are for this.  I think the largest prize in sports.   
 It's our first playoff system.  It's the first year of it.  There's nothing but positive excitement about it.   
 I think the guys that are leery about it don't know a lot about it.  I think it's one of the positives from it.  Nobody really knows.  It's the first year.  We'll all experience it together.  First time everybody is rookie at something.  Everybody is going to be a rookie going into it.   
 You know, get a chance to play for that kind of money over four years weeks, if you get hot, you can win it.  That's pretty exciting to have a chance to win ten million dollars.   
 You've got a four week ticket to a lottery ticket.  That's pretty tough to beat.   
 DOUG MILNE:  Okay.  Anybody else?   
  
  Q.  Can you talk a little bit about your game going into this and how it might suit Forest Oaks?   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:  I'm playing -- the key to me the last four, five weeks, I've been playing -- I've been driving the ball very well.  I drove the ball extremely well at Tulsa.  Unfortunately, I didn't make the putts I normally make, hit a lot of lips.   
 I played very good today.  Love the golf course.  It sets up good for me.  It's the kind of golf I grew up playing, bermuda grass, bent greens.   
 I feel very comfortable here.  I don't want to talk myself into playing bad now because I seem so positive.  It seems like every time I start doing this something bad happens.   
 I'm playing great and hitting it solid.  Can't really find -- the thing that's been struggling right now is my bunker game.  I'll be working on it this afternoon.   
 I played great today.  I think I shot 7, 8-under today.  I'm sure I waisted all those birdies today.  I'm sure I won't make one tomorrow but I'm going to try.  It will be fun.   
 DOUG MILNE:  Okay.  Brandt, thanks for stopping by.  Best of luck this week.   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:  Appreciate it.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT