CANADIAN OPEN
July 27, 2007
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. (Inaudible).   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:  Doing great, you know, it was a good day out there, and hit it pretty good.  Didn't make a lot of putts, but, hopefully, we'll do it this weekend.   
  
  Q.  How did you find the conditions compared to yesterday?   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:  A lot calmer.  Wasn't blowing 30 miles per hour like yesterday, and the greens were perfect.  So scoring opportunities were out there, and took advantage of a few of them, but left a few out there.  But, all in all, I'm happy with where I'm going over the weekend.   
  
  Q.  What is your take on the course?   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:  I love it.  I think it's great.  We don't get to play too many golf courses like this.  Little different style, little bit more wide open.  You know, the whole course, the whole course seems to gel together very well.  Good mix of holes, lot of birdie holes out there.  Lot of really tough holes as well.  It's a fun golf course to play.  I love it.   
  
  Q.  Is there a sense there was another low score like Hunter posted yesterday, the way you're saying the conditions are?   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:  I definitely think so.  Maybe not 62, I mean, that was kind of silly.  But I definitely think there was a 65 or 66 out there, easily, this morning because the greens were so perfect.  If you got hot with the putters this morning, they were all going to go in from everywhere.   
 Wind's starting to blow a little bit now.  Hopefully, it will pick up for the guys this afternoon so they can feel what we felt yesterday.  Hopefully, the weather stays away, and we'll have a nice clear weekend.   
  
  Q.  You say you left some shots out there?   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:  Yeah, I hit it pretty good today.  I gave myself a bunch of birdie chances on my back nine, the front nine.  Didn't make anything.  Made one lone bogey coming in, just kind of a mis-club.  And that's going to happen over four rounds of golf.  Hopefully, I'll get hot with the putter over the weekend, and we'll be up there and have something to say.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible).   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:  It's good to be playing well in front of the home crowd.  Got a bunch of family and friends out there, so it feels great.  It's good for me to be out there.  I feel like I'm almost a semi-home Canadian this week.  Kind of an adopted Canadian this week.   
  
  Q.  You're kind of a local.  Were you in the Thursday and Friday gallery?   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:  It's very good.  It's always nice to have somebody out there cheering for you, you know.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT