U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2007
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Brandt, how great was it for you to save par? 
  BRANDT SNEDEKER: Pretty important, I think if I hadn't made that 6-foot putt I would have been upset with myself and I turned a good round into a mediocre round real quick. But that happens out here; you have to make some bogeys and survive them. 

 Q.  Let's talk about the two parts to your round.  Obviously you played well the first 13 holes. 
  BRANDT SNEDEKER: I didn't think I was hitting that well the first 13 and getting rewarded. And then I started hitting better the last three holes. And that's the way it happens, you know, you feel like you're getting under control and you make a couple bogeys, but it's a long tournament. I got a long way to go. I need some good breaks to stay up there and hopefully I can still keep getting them. 

 Q.  If at the end of the day somebody would have told you you would have been 1-over, what would you have said? 
  BRANDT SNEDEKER: I would have been at home watching a movie. It's tough out there; it's a grind and if you don't need to get beat it by it, then you don't need to. 

 Q.  Did you feel a little worn down? 
  BRANDT SNEDEKER: I was actually doing fine until 6, 7, 8. I don't know if they were brain lapses, or if my swing got a little too loose or what it was. But that's going to happen over 72 holes you're going to have at least 9 bad holes, and I shot three today, so I was able to survive. And that 8-footer I made for par is going to me feel better about my round, that's for sure. 

 Q.  Talk about regathering yourselves; you get a bogey and you have to regather yourself.  The survival process, describe that, if you will. 
  BRANDT SNEDEKER: I actually started on 10, so I didn't make -- I got off to a great start, I chipped in on No. 12, I was staring bogey in the face and walk away with birdie, and all of the sudden I'm as happy as I can be and kind of got the round going. And you know you're going to fall back a couple shots, it was playing tough, wind was blowing 15, 20 miles an hour. And these fairways are rolling out really good right now, so it made it that much harder to hit. 



 I was able to keep my head about me.  I knew I was going to make some bogeys, and you're going to put yourselves in some spots and you feel like an idiot out there sometimes, but you've got to move on. 

 Q.  A lot of people today said the setup was as easy as it could be, the course will never be easy but -- 
  BRANDT SNEDEKER: I thought -- they didn't put pins near too many ridges. They had them in successful spots. As far as these greens go, you've got to put asterisks by it, because they're still not very accessible. But as far as this goes, this is as good as it's going to get, the greens are soft, and it's just not going to happen the rest of the week it's going to get firmer and faster. 

 Q.  Short putts, long putts? 
  BRANDT SNEDEKER: Kind of close. I hit one on the 13, about 2 feet, and I don't think I made another birdie until 2, 3 -- was it 3 I made a birdie? I made a nice 25-footer there, it was a bonus, a tough putt. 



 And 4 was another great birdie because I hit it in the Church Pews off the tee, and I was lucky to hit a wedge out, got out of rough, hit an 8-iron on the green and made a putt; when I hit some crooked tee shots.  I got some good breaks and some good lies and it could have been easily 4 over as 1. 

 Q.  Anything from the recesses of your mind that might have helped you when you were an amateur back here? 
  BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, a little bit. I kind of remember what side of the fairway you wanted to miss it on, what side of greens you want too miss it on. I think it gives you comfort in where the pins are, what's on the green and what's around them. Took me a little bit of getting used to. Even though I didn't play that well at the amateur, it still makes a bit of a difference. 


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT