BUICK INVITATIONAL
January 28, 2007
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Got your first third place, not bad.   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:  It's an unbelievable experience for me to be in the last group the last two days, play with that kind of pressure on me and respond the way I did, even though I didn't play great, you know, I would have loved to come away with a win but I lost to two great players in Tiger Woods and Charles Howell and learned a lot.   
 So hopefully I can build on this and come back and try to compete again.   
  
  Q.  What was it like last night trying to get some sleep sleeping on the lead?   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:  I was fine last night.  I woke up this morning and I couldn't get the breakfast down I was trying to eat so I was a little hungry all day.   
 I got out on got of course and everything was fine.  I had a great group, we had a blast out there and unfortunately we didn't play that well, but it was a fun day and I sure learned a lot.   
  
  Q.  You finished third all by yourself, what are the rest of the goals for the rest of the year?   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:  I think it's like everybody else out here, I'm trying to make THE TOUR Championship, try to win just like everybody else every time you tee it up and let the chips fall where they may.  This will help me get into a few more tournaments than I might not be able to get into.  The crowd, I cannot thank them enough for what they did.   
 I was having trouble getting the eggs down.  I was joking with my caddie, I can't eat breakfast it might be a long day.  Eventually we got my nerves under control and got hungry so that's a good sign.   
  
  Q.  Did you eat during the round?   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:  I had a about a in an in a during the round so that's okay.   
  
  Q.  Will more fans know who you are --   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:  I would like to think they might but I'm still going to be naive.  I don't think anybody knows who I am.  I think they saw a blond-headed kid out there who was having fun and rallied around them is the best way to put it.  I think people like seeing that.  I think people like seeing people having fun doing what they are doing.  I have the best job in the world so I have no reason to be upset out there when I'm playing golf.  There are 200 million people in the world without anything to eat so any time I start getting nervous I start thinking about that.   
  
  Q.  What was it like for you?   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:  It was a great learns experience for me, I got to play behind Tiger Woods and watch him do what he does best.  I can't thank the crowd enough for being behind me.   
  
  Q.  Talk about playing last 36 holes with the lead?   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:  I think it made my game a little bitter, just make a few less mistakes, try to make birdies -- (inaudible).  I didn't come out on the right end of it but it was fun trying to figure it out.   
  
  Q.  It's such a fine line, really good finish and, what do you think makes the difference between winning and coming close?   
 BRANDT SNEDEKER:  That's a great question.  I think more importantly it's taking advantage of breaks.  You see Tiger do it time and time again when he does get a break and when he needs to make a clutch putt he makes it.  I didn't do that today and on the weekend.  I made a few good putts here and there but you have a chance to really make a turning point and separate yourself from the field and I didn't do it and Tiger did.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT