AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 12, 2017
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I played great.  I was very disappointed with the way I putted, just didn't make anything out there.  And had a chance, I kind of got going early and had a good look at 7, trying to get 4-under through 7 and really felt like something special was going to happen.  And for whatever reason, putts just didn't want to go in today.  I battled hard, I hung in there, hit a lot of quality shots, and just wasn't able to take advantage of them.   
So I'm getting kind of frustrated because the last two times I've played I've been in the last group and had chances and my putter has let me down.  So I've got to go figure something out to get these putts to go in on Sunday.   
 Q.  Where do you go from here?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Practice.  That seems to solve all the problems.  As frustrating as this is, it's the game, sometimes they go in, sometimes they don't.  But the guys that practice hard and work hard at it seem to always figure it out.  So got to play next week at Riviera, I'm excited about that.  So, hopefully, I can go there and spend a lot of time on the putting greens and figure out a way for them to go in and be ready to go come Thursday.   
 Q.  You've won here twice, so obviously you like playing Pebble Beach.  What is it about here that brings out some of your best game?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I think it's the walk around here.  It's such a special place.  It's hard to be in a bad mood, even today when the putts weren't going in, I was smiling all the way around and having a good time.  It was fun watching Jordan battle out there today.  He didn't have his best stuff, but he did exactly what he was supposed to do and played a great round of golf.  Sometimes those are the hardest rounds of golf, when you have the lead that he had.  So impressed with the way he played and it was fun to watch him do his thing out there.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I did what I needed to do and had a really good look at 7 and didn't make it.   
Then made a bad swing on 9.  Made the only bogey of the day there.  So frustrating because I couldn't seem to make the putts.  I had a bunch of good looks, had some chances to put some pressure on him, I just never could get the putts to go in today and it's always frustrating when that happens, when you do the -- to me the hard part is getting the ball in the right spots and the easy part is when I putt.  So today the putting was the hard part.  So it's frustrating, but it's part of it.   
 Q.  The fact that Jordan had a sizeable lead, did that put you in a place where you had to be aggressive?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Not really.  This golf course lends itself to the first few holes getting ready and I had ample chances.  I had three birdies in the first seven, had two really good looks that didn't go in.  So I felt like I was doing the right stuff and just -- you're going to have to make some 10, 15-footers if you want to shoot something low around here and I just didn't make anything today.  So frustrated with that part.   
 Q.  Why do you play so well here?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I love this place.  It's hard not to have a smile on your face and be excited about playing golf when you're playing Pebble Beach in conditions like this.  I really enjoyed playing with the amateurs here.  I have a blast getting to meet some new guys each year and playing with some different guys, it's really fun to walk around there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT