SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 11, 2017
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOHN BUSH: We'd like to welcome Brandt Snedeker into the interview room.
Brandt, making your fourth start here at the Sony Open in Hawaii, last year's runner-up finish was your first trip here in quite a while.  Comment a little about last year and sort of what you found at this golf course that worked.
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, you know, it's a good, classic venue.  I love golf courses like this where you've got to put the ball in play off the tee.  You really have to think your way around the golf course.
Obviously last year, we had some great weather.  Wasn't a lot of wind; the scoring was so low, so pristine conditions to play golf in.  It looks like more of the same this week, so excited about being back and try to do a little bit better than I did last year.  I played great.
Obviously didn't finish the deal last year.  Still stings a little bit, not being able to win that playoff last year.  But feel like I have the opportunity to come back and try to right a little bit of a wrong that happened a here last year.
JOHN BUSH: Comment about the state of your game coming from another trip to Kapalua last week.
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, really excited.  I played really well last week.  I didn't putt very well, at all, for me.  So that was disappointing.  But my long game is in great shape.  Played a round yesterday and I'm excited about where my game is going.  And if I see some putts go in this week, it could be a really good week for me.
Q. You talked about how the weather was good and how it looks like it will be again, but you're an amazing wind player.  You've proven that recently.  If it gets up, do you fancy your chances, as well?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Any time conditions get tougher, I kind of like it, because you seem to eliminate some guys straight off of that.  So I'm not opposed to having wind here.  This golf course is kind of built for that.  If you don't have wind, the scores will be know.  If you do, it will be tough.  Just try to kind of go with what the forecast is, be excited with however it turns out.  But either way, I'll be fine.
Q. And you mentioned your putting in Kapalua not being up to your standards.  Obviously different styles of greens.  Have you made the quick adjustment?  Are you in sync?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I mean, I played yesterday, not as quick as I would like to.  I wasn't rolling it the way I want to yesterday.  Come off last week, it's hard to get adjusted.  You come off last week.  It's hard to get adjusted.  You know, you had some really slow greens last week and greens are perfect, and they are some of the most undulating greens we see all year, and some of the flattest greens we'll see all year.  So it's really, really tough to get your eyesight and eyeline back to where they should be.  Hopefully after the Pro-Am, I'll have a little bit more feel and be ready for tomorrow.
Q. Jim Furyk, speaking of him, has anybody asked you about the announcement?  Can we get a quick comment?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, excited.  I thought it was kind of a no-brainer.  Anybody that's seen him wanted him to be the next guy.  He's been around it a long time.  And I know he'll bring that passion and that excitement that he has for The Ryder Cup to being captain.
It will be fun for us to try to make that team and see him -- I think he has a really good chance to play on his own team, so it will be fun to see him out here competing against us and trying to beat us and trying to see what's going on.
Q. Biggest difference between him and Davis?  And don't say anything about the hair.
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Two completely different styles of how they are going to captain.  I kind of think Jim is more of a quiet, kind of reserved kind of guy.  Davis is more outgoing, getting everybody involved.  I think Jim will be the same way in some aspects, in a very different style.  Jim is more of a quiet, kind-of-lead-by-example kind of guy.  I think he'll lean on assistant captains and guys to help him kind of fill out his management style.
Q. And then back to the original question on Jim.  He once said, that losing hurts worse than winning feels good.  Would you agree with that and could you lean on last year as an example?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Totally.  Yeah.  I think when we lost the '12 Ryder Cup --
Q. Here.
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Here.  Gotcha.  I thought you meant Ryder Cup.
Here, yeah, I think failure drives us more than the excitement of winning.  I remember last year losing a playoff here, it stuck with me.  I had a week off and then the whole next week it stuck with me.  I felt like I left something on the golf course.
You never mind losing but when you do every tying you possibly can.  But when you don't do something you should have done, like last year I didn't birdie 18 either time in the playoff, I feel like I left -- that should happen.  I should be able to birdie it one or two times, so I feel like I left something out there, and that stings a lot and stays with you for awhile.
Winning San Diego, next week -- it's funny, the TOUR forgets in a week.  Next week it's on to next week and get back at it.  So winning doesn't last nearly as long as it does --
Q. The celebration in San Diego, did that last shorter than --
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Oh, yeah, way shorter.  It was just a dinner that night and then you're on to next week playing the next week, so you don't really care.  Nobody gives -- next week -- (laughter).  The TOUR moves very fast in that way.  You don't have time to really celebrate and really enjoy your wins, and you always carry your losses with you a lot longer.
JOHN BUSH: Brandt, thank you.  Appreciate it.  Play well this week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT