SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 2, 2020
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Nice playing out there today, nine birdies.  A little mistake at 16 but got to feel pretty comfortable where your game is at.
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, you know, I've made some changes and feel really good with them.  Struck the ball probably as good -- confident striking the golf ball as I've been in a long time, so I'm excited about the weekend and did a lot of really good things out there today.  If I can build on that over the weekend, this is about as confident as I've been in my golf swing in a long time, so I'm excited about two more days here.  Keep rolling the putts good, it should be a lot of fun.
Q. Obviously you like a lot of the players, good putters out here, you've really got to lick your chops when you're on greens this good, don't you?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   It is.  These greens are sneaky fast.  You've got to be careful on a few, so if you do have those good ones up the hill you need to be aggressive and try and make as many as you can because these greens are sneaky on you.  I had some putts today that were kind of laying up kind of putts where luckily they fell in today but they're not going to fall in every day.  The greens are perfect.  Course is -- if you drive it in the fairway you can make a lot of birdies, and so you need to do that well over the weekend to have a chance.
Q. One of the benefits of playing well today, you're not going to have to be up early when it's going to be kind of cool in the morning.  How about this weather?  You live in the southeast; how about the weather this week for the Sanderson Farms?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   We were talking about it all day today.  You don't get many days, many weeks like this in the year.  This is probably my favorite time of year is the fall time, mid-70s down here, no humidity, crystal blue skies.  Feels like football is in the air and a great time to be playing golf, so it's a lot of fun to have these kind of days, especially when you're playing well so you can really enjoy them.
Q. What are the changes that you made?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I started working with Bradley Hughes about a month ago, and it's really starting to kind of feel comfortable with everything we're doing, and it's been great to practice, just taking it from the range to the golf course, and this week is the first time I've done that, and it's transferring over, and doing a lot of really good things out there.
Q. Did you read his book?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I found him on -- I actually played with Brendon Todd this year a couple times and saw how well Brendon was striking it, was just really impressed with the way Brendon -- I played with Brendon before when he was kind of struggling, and seeing him now, I felt like he was a totally different golfer.  Kind of piqued my interest a little bit.  I was struggling, kind of hitting it bad most of the year, so I went and saw him around Wyndham and just really liked what he had to say.  It was simple stuff and kind of made sense to me, allowed me to release the club in a different way than I've ever been taught before to release it.  Just seems to feel really natural to me.  It's been a lot of fun.
Seems like it's more consistent day-to-day.  I don't have those up-and-down days like I used to, and I'm really excited to see where it can take me.
Q. Are you doing the same drill that Brendon does or do you have something different?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Similar stuff, yeah.  I would say I think Brendon and my swing thoughts are probably totally different, but you get some basic stuff he wants you to understand of how the club should be released and how you stabilize it and that kind of thing.  For somebody like me who's got good hands he wants me to use them, which is nice.  It's nice to go out there and use my best attribute of my game.  He's taken a lot of the curve out of my golf swing.  I hit the ball really straight now.  It's not curving as much as it used to.  Part of the reason it took me a while is I used to line up for a big draw or playing a pretty big draw and now I'm hitting the ball pretty straight and actually seeing it cut a little bit, so it's been a little eye adjustment for me.  Kind of feels like I'm going to hit some off the planet left, and I'm not, so just got to get used to it.
Q. Did you think about making a change during --
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   The COVID time?  Not really.  I went into COVID playing decent, didn't feel like it was all that bad, and then through COVID I worked my tail off and came back out and it just wasn't where I wanted to be and just kind of got going downhill.  I finished last year terribly, finished I think 120th on the FedExCup.  That's the first time in my career.  Really wanted to -- I'm healthy, I'm working as hard as I ever have.  I need to see some better results.  It's kind of what led me to do that.  I'm excited about it.  I really feel like I've got a lot of really good golf left in me, and he's going to help me to achieve that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT