THE RYDER CUP
October 2, 2016
Brandt Snedeker
Ben Crenshaw
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. First of all, from your point of view, just how special is it to be in a winning team just having witnessed what you did at Medinah and gone through that pain?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: It's unbelievable.  This team came together like nothing I've been a part of before.  We were so in it together.
The reason I wanted him in here with me is because he came out here and brought that vast experience.  It was great to have him in the team room.  To have experience like that, to have a guy who's always in a great mood in your corner, you can't write that stuff.  You can't make that stuff up.
Q. Ben, you have been around the team this week.  Have you seen a difference in this team?
BEN CRENSHAW: Teams change, but the chemistry doesn't change that much.  The thing that we saw in this team was a complete team, they really believed in each other.  It was evident before this contest.
But it's the same for Europe.  There's a game called golf and people come together and the nucleus is strong.  To be real honest, on both teams, I never thought I could see golf played this well.  I'm astounded how great these players are.  We made more putts.  We got a few more things to happen, this and that, but we beat a tremendous team.
And Brandt knows how good the other guys are.  I have the utmost respect for Darren Clarke as a player and a man.  But this was a special team.  Nick, you could tell the bond was there.  We could feel it.  Carried them through.
Q. At Medinah, Seve was used to inspire that European victory, how much was Arnold Palmer used to inspire this one?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I used him on the 17th hole.  I had 9-iron from 172 yards and I had to hit every ounce of it.  I said I'm going to make this thing for Arnold Palmer.  Just go forward and let it go.  I did that several times today.  I kept thinking how would Arnold want me to play it.  We lost an ambassador and a good friend.  He's definitely a huge reason why I'm standing where I am today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT