WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 21, 2016
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Brandt, another solid week for you.  15-under par, birdie at 18.  That's always a fun hole to birdie.  Thoughts on how it went this week.
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah.  You know, it's going to be one of the weeks I look back on and think about what could have been.  I played really, really good the first three days.  Got off to a great start on the front-9.  I lost it for about 7 holes on the back-9.
Couldn't find a fairway, couldn't hit a green.  Put myself behind the 8-ball.  I put myself in position after I thought 9 holes to be 4-under after 9.  Staying on the back-9, if I make 4, 5 more, make 20 and have a chance.  Did not do that at this point.  Played 1-over par on the back-9 at this point.
Q. State of your game now as you head into the Playoffs.
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Lot of really good positive stuff.  I'm rolling the ball fantastic.  Playing some great golf.  Got to find the one thing that kind of ties it all together.  I can do it on the range occasionally.  On the golf course I do it quite a little bit every once in awhile, or one or two will sneak in.
Got to get those out of there before next week.  Tough golf course next week.  Make sure I'm hitting on all cylinders to handle Bethpage.
Q. Your thoughts on how you've done there in the past.
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I played the Open there in '09.  Really wet Open.  You know, like the course we're going to play.  I think in 2012 we played there and I played great.  I love the golf course, sets up really well for my game.
Got to think your way around, Rees Jones, kind of similar to Torrey Pines, kind of thinking your way around the greens with the sections.  Pull from the great finish I had four years ago, go up with some confidence and try the recreate it.
Q. Your 6th I believe going into the Playoffs.  How huge is that knowing you pretty much can control a lot of things for you?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Got to play well.  I got to go up there and play well.  You can control your destiny in the Top 5.  That's my goal.  I need to be in the Top-5 heading to Atlanta.  I got three solid weeks to get that done.
Played a really good front-9.  Got in nice in position.  I thought I could make a run on the back-9 and didn't happen.  Played poorly and drove it poorly on the back-9.  Put myself behind the 8-ball.
Putts didn't want to fall and made too many mistakes.  Kind of sums up my week.  I played really, really well for periods of time and then two, three holes kind of killed me.  I wasn't able to play a clean round of golf.  Hopefully can tighten it before next and be ready to go.
Q. Do you think about the pressure you guys had coming into today with the lead that Kim gave himself and you guys have to play catch-up?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Wasn't pressure.  You had to play a perfect round of golf.  If he did what he has been doing all week he's really really tough to catch.  I would have liked to have made a couple more birdies early on the back-9, put some pressure on him.  Wasn't able to do that.
He's obviously playing fantastic.  Put yourself behind the 8-ball long before today.  Couple shots here on Friday, couple shots on Saturday and it ended up being the difference.
Q. Talk about how those things you're talking about hurt you when you're trying to at least play for 2nd but put some pressure on.
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I wasn't worried about 2nd.  I was trying to put some pressure on him.  15 hit a bad drive on 15, make bogey on par 5, try to eagle it, make a couple birdies to post 19-under.
To finish the way I did was corny.  That's golf.  You don't have it everyday.  I didn't have it today.  I fought and did some good stuff but needed to improve definitely for next week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT