WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 19, 2016
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Brandt, 5 birdies on the day, another great round.  Puts you in excellent position for the weekend.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, I did.  At this point the three bogies, if I could avoid those today.  All in all, played pretty solidly from tee to green.  Just kind of keep it going from yesterday.  Hopefully I got kind of my bad little -- made a few mental mistakes today, and play solid over the weekend.   
 Q.  This tournament means so much to you.  How great is it to be in the mix as you head to Saturday?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: It's fun.  Seems like the last few years I always go into the weekend in good position.  I just need to kind of take advantage of it this time.  Know what it takes to win around here, know what you have to do.  I know birdies are going to be needed at a premium over the weekend.  Go throughout on the week, keep doing what I'm doing.  Rolling the ball great.  If I give myself some opportunities, it will be a fun weekend.   
 Q.  It's just the 2nd Round but yet on top of that you showed a lot of emotion out there rolling some putts.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: It's important, especially when you see a guy behind you getting ready to shoot 60 or 59.  You know you got to makes birdies.  Couple bogies late which I'm disappointed with myself.  Being 9, 10-under par is a good thing.   
 Q.  Obviously after a good start how would you compare the two rounds?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Just made a few sloppy mistakes today.  Played good, need to take advantage of it.  Made three bogies today.  Shouldn't have made them.  I was in good position in pretty much all of them except for the 9th hole.  It's the way you go.  Unfortunately, you make mistakes around here.   
Need to be smart the next couple days and kind of take advantage of opportunities and make sure that I put some pressure on whoever is leading because I'm going to be behind right now.   
 Q.  Your game has had success on this style of golf course.  What is it about your game that lends it itself to that?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: You definitely have to have a short iron game around here is really, really important.  You got to think your way around here extremely well.  You got to roll some putts in.   
I love the greens, they're in perfect shape.  I'm rolling the ball fantastic.  Can't wait to get on the greens so I know I got a chance to do it.  Keep doing that over the weekend, give myself a few more opportunities and should take advantage of them.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT