WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2016
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Brandt, I know it wasn't what you wanted on 18 but you got a lot out of that round today, 6 birdies made during the course of the round and that bogey was the only one you made.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I played really -- kind of didn't hit it perfect today but I played really well, got off to a good day.  Made some key putts early and I was disappointed.  I felt like 7-under par was there.  I had a really good look at birdie on 17.  18 I hit kind of a bad second shot and hit a good putt and misread it.  Fortunate with 5, not 7.   
Got to make up some ground tomorrow, obviously, but hopefully in the morning it's calm conditions and good greens.  Go out there and make a lot of putts.   
 Q.  When you take a a look at your record on this course after you won in '07 as Forest Oaks, it's good.  What is it about this event?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I feel comfortable here.  Wyndham is like family to me.  They've been a great sponsor since my first year on Tour.  Great people.  So I love coming here.  I see a bunch of old friends and family kind of when I come up here.   
That means a lot.  It means a lot that you care about the people.  As you know, we're kind of fidgety and edgy out here on Tour.  If you can find anything that helps you feel comfortable is much needed, especially with me, all the Ryder Cup and things going on in my head right now.  I know I need two good weeks.  To have the comfort level I have here is really good.   
 Q.  Go get them tomorrow.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Thanks a lot.   
 Q.  Brandt, nice start.  Get some comments on your round.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Today was a really good day.  I had kind of perfect conditions out there had a great group of guys.  Bill played great, Billy played great.  Kind of fed off each other which was great and obviously a big week for me.  I got to get two weeks coming up with Ryder Cup points to get done.  This is a big week for me.  Need to go out there and keep three more rounds like this together to have chance.   
 Q.  Do you fell like you left anything out there today?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I feel like I had 7-under par.  Good looking birdie on 17 I probably should have made.  18 made a bad bogey.  At this point we're finished and they count just the same as the ones on Sunday.  I look back on those two holes might cost me but, all in all, try to build on that for tomorrow.  Lot of positive things going on.   
 Q.  Trying to chase the bubble spot, Patrick Reed played well today.  How comfortable are you of where things stand?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Just something in the back of my mind.  I don't really think about it, how he played or how the other guys played today.  More of if I go out there and play how I'm capable of on Sunday should help my cause a lot and I'm not going to sit here and lie and said I'm not thinking about.  I am.   
I want to be on that team.  I love playing Ryder Cups.  I love Davis.  I want to be there representing the United States so I'm going to use that as motivation to go out there and work hard and grind my tail off the next three days.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT