RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 23, 2016
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BRANDT SNEDEKER: Putting got me going early.  Excited about the way everything came together.  One of those days, the day came, all in a bunch it seemed like, and I was able to make some birdies coming in which was huge.
Q. You made some birdies coming out, starting at the second hole, five in a row, and 11 one-putt greens during the course of the rounds.
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I felt comfortable on the greens all week and was hitting my line today.  I had a bunch of putts -- it's funny, you get a round like today, I had a bunch of putts that were really easy to read.  They were edge putts I could be firm with and aggressive with and I was able to take advantage of them.  Besides the one short miss I had on 11, I putted fantastic.
Q. You're like a 290 guy off the tee, average. You hit your drive 378 here on 18.  Take me through the final hole.
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Now I know what it feels like to be Dustin Johnson.  Just had downwind, greens and fairways are so firm, if you get it -- unfortunately them being firm, you have about two yards to get the ball in the fairway.  I hit it right on my line, one of the best swings I've made all day.  Hit hard and took off.  Had a lob-wedge into 18, perfect lob-wedge, able to hit a good one and rip it in there about six feet and make a putt.
Q. As an RBC ambassador, big Sunday coming up for you?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, I've been in this situation before here, winning three years before here and so I'm excited to be back.  This is as close to home -- kind of a home away from here.  My caddie is from here and RBC has been one of my sponsors for a long time.  I feel like I've got some friends and family rooting me on tomorrow.
Q. You put together a brilliant front nine with five straight birdies.  How did the putter get hot when at times in the first couple days, it looked like you were looking at it a little funny?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I've been putting good, putted great last week at Troon.  Got here, saw my lines good.  Hit a couple poor putts but for the most part rolling it great.  I had a bunch of putts that were easy to read.  I hit my lines and got some momentum going early.
Q. You haven't been back here since you won at Glen Abbey in 2013.  What is it that's different about the way the course is playing?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: It's so different from what I remember.  The golf course is so firm and fast.  You have to leave the ball in right spots and don't make mistakes.
Q. So with that, how can you manage to win at the same golf course?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: It's just going to be -- the thing about this golf course, you have to be patient -- inaudible -- this golf course, you just have to wait and wait for a good number and then go.  Just be patient and see what happens.  It can pass you by if you make some mistakes.  Tomorrow will be all about patience and leaving the ball in the right spots and not trying to force the issue and really kind of take advantage of what I do well, which is my putting.
Q. That was a pretty hot start.  You seem to like Saturdays at Glen Abbey.
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, I needed one.  I definitely had some memories coming back.  I think 2013, I had a similar Saturday round.  Started out kind of the same.  Yeah, had a little flashback there which is nice.  I played a great round of golf.  Birdieing five of your first six, you can't really draw it up any better.  I kind of had a lull there the middle of the round, then but finishing the way I did and taking advantage of the two par 5s and the eagle on the last hole especially, give me a chance to go out there tomorrow and try to win this tournament again.
Q. Did you suspect you were going to --
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I hit on something last week with Butch.  We were working hard and kind of hit on something on Friday after I made the cut on the number.  Played great on the weekend.  I knew that I was doing the right stuff.  Knew I had something to work on that was working, leaving the ball in the right spots.  I knew I was rolling it great.
So if I could kind of get my ball-striking up to where I knew it could be, my putter was going to either win it for me or get it close.  Hopefully I can use that tomorrow and keep running with it.
Q. You're going to be playing with an amateur, young kid who is going to have all the Canadian fans on his back.  What's that going to be like?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I think I'm going to be the most hated man in Canada tomorrow, but it's going to be a lot of fun trying to figure it out.  He's great.  For a 21-year-old kid, to be playing golf here is awesome, let alone to do it in your National Open.  I mean, I can't imagine the nerves this kid has to be playing as great of golf as he has.
I'm looking forward to meeting him.  I'm looking forward to playing with him, and I'm going to do everything I can  to help him have a great day tomorrow.  I want him to have a great experience tomorrow and really enjoy it.
Q. What would it mean for you to get a win going into the PGA Championship and win this championship for the second time?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: It means a lot.  My golf game's not been where it should have been the last couple months, and to get back on the right track and be in contention again to win, go out there and think well tomorrow, give myself a chance; give me a lot of confidence going into the PGA Championship, FedExCup Playoffs and help me secure a Ryder Cup spot.  There's a lot on the line tomorrow, and I know what it entails and I need to go out and play well to secure that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT