RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 21, 2016
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Well done out there, 4-under par 68.  What was the key to your round today?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I made some key putts through the course of the round.  Got off to a good start, made a bad swing on 12 and got some momentum back.  Didn't drive it great today but kind of used my head around the golf course, leave it in the right spots.  Greens are so firm, you've just got to get it on the green somewhere, and I made a few putts.   
 Q.  This area has not had a lot of rain and the golf course is getting a little juicy.  What are the guys this afternoon going to face?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: It's tough.  Some of the par 3s are going to be hard to hold.  If you don't hit the fairway, you're looking at bogey because you can't control the golf ball at all.  There are just some holes out there you can't birdie, period, end of story.  You have to accept that and move on past it and get ready for make something pars and hopefully take advantage of the par 5s.   
 Q.  As a player, when you find yourself in that wiry rough, what's the best way to deal with it?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Guess.  I was guessing right today.  A lot of times 50/50, sometimes they come out normal, sometimes they come out jumping, screaming.  Did a good job of managing the lies today.  Got an understanding of where I wanted to leave it, and if it did come out funny, was able to leave it on the right side of the hole and get up-and-down.   
 Q.  I thought this golf course was pretty baked out but with the wind blowing, it's only going to get faster.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, it's kind of crazy, they have to really water these greens a lot tonight and tomorrow.  They are getting juicy already on Thursday, and forecast only looks like it's going to get hotter and drier.   
But it's fun to see a golf course like this.  You don't rarely see it like this and it's right on the edge right now and a lot of fun to play.   
 Q.  Take me through 7.  Took a long time to pick a club and you took a bold lie.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: With the pin back right today, it's a very, very tough par 3 and I knew if I came off a little bit, hit it where Ernie and Jason was, it's a really tough up-and-down.  Swinging pretty well, so go ahead and be aggressive.  Took it right at it and if you miss it, you miss it.  I had a perfect number, an 8-iron, just go after it and finally pulled off a good shot and gave myself a good look at birdie there.   
 Q.  How are these greens rolling?  They must be really fast?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: They are fast and they are firm but they are rolling good.  Jason and I made a good putts today.  In the afternoon, they are going to get a little crusty and baked out a little bit.  Going to be a little different this afternoon.  They are rolling good and firm and fast and that's what you like to see out here.   
 Q.  Nice start to the tournament.  How do you feel about that round?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: It was good.  I didn't drive it real good.  I scrambled -- the golf course is so firm and fast, you've got to kind of plod your way around and be aggressive where you can and if you're not, get in positions where you can get up-and-down.   
It's a lot of fun.  Probably as fast as I've seen the golf course play in a long time, so fun to get out and see what you've got.   
 Q.  Have you seen Glen Abbey play this way before?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: No.  I was talking to Jason today a little bit about last year because I wasn't here last year for an injury, and he said it was pretty similar to last year, might get a little more baked out.  It's going to make for a fun weekend.  It's going to make for a lot of head scratching out there.  But it's good.  Definitely have to hit the ball precise and play well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT