DEAN & DELUCA INVITATIONAL
May 27, 2016
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I know you hated the way it ended there, just a yard too long on that approach, wasn't it?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, just got -- I didn't get a lot out of my round.  I played a pretty good round of golf and got pretty much zero out of it, which is frustrating.  You know, you're in the first cut, don't know how the ball is going to come out, and of course it gets rolling and goes in the wrong place and you can't hit it.  Bogeying the last hole is kind of frustrating, but I also played really well today to get myself back in the tournament.  Just hope I can keep this ball-striking going, and my putter will hopefully wake up over the weekend.   
 Q.  I also thought it was a key when you made the par save on 17 to stop that two-hole bogey run there, and then you went on that great run.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, it was.  It was a big putt.  You know, kind of wedge it out there, the trees, hit a bad tee shot, one of the few on the day, but made a 10-footer for par there and kind of got things going.  Made a great birdie on 18, hole-out on 1, and good birdie on 2, and obviously things were going great from there.  Didn't really miss a shot coming down the stretch and just made nothing the rest of the day, so hopefully saved them all for the weekend when they really count, and we can go out there and have some fun.   
 Q.  91-yard hole-out for you on 1.  You went a yard too short on 2.  You were 92 yards away.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Exactly.  We joked about it out there in the fairway, almost exactly the same number.  Yeah, I knew I hit that wedge shot on 1 really good.  I knew I'd been wedging it pretty good, so kind of got lucky for one to go in and had a great shot on 2, so kind of got the momentum right back.  We played some really solid golf on the front nine.   
 Q.  Which putter will we see tomorrow?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: We're going to see the same one.  I didn't make anything today.  I rolled it way better and didn't hole any putts, which I was unsatisfied with.  I've just got to see some putts go in, get some positive stuff going, because I did everything else really well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT