MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2016
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You've got to be happy with the way conditions are?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, it was tough today. I played a lot better today than I did yesterday. And missed a few short putts which unfortunately around here is going to happen from time to time. You hit quality golf shots, and then some bad shots. I bogeyed 12.
All in all I hung in there today. Finished with a birdie on the last hole to kind of give myself a chance on the weekend.

Q. You can sympathize with Ernie [Els] a little bit because you 5-putted, I think?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, we've all been there, especially on these greens. If you get a little bit of a twinge in there you start getting scared and it's hard to putt these greens scared. 
Nobody out here wishes that on anybody. We all want to help Ernie, hey, let's try this, do this, trying something different. He's such a good guy, on top of it.

Q. Did you watch the highlight?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I did, yeah. Unfortunately I watched it and I feel bad for him. We've all been there. We've all had those moments where you can't make it from three feet. And unfortunately it happened here.

Q. Talk about tomorrow and kind of the plan of attack. I know you're right there?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, I have to make some birdies. I've been trying to survive on pars, and left birdie putts short. That's not who I am. I like being aggressive and not running putts by. I have to change up a little tomorrow. And I need the wind to blow. Wherever Jordan is, I need some wind to have a good round to separate yourself and feel a little better and get up the leaderboard. I don’t want it to be perfect because then everybody’s going to be making birdies.

 Q. Do you have to approach things differently because of the conditions?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, you have to kind of reel in expectations. Realize my goal is to get it somewhere on the green. When you do have birdie putts, you need to be making them. You might have four legit birdie putts in a round. You can be aggressive, on those you have to be aggressive. You can’t just make your putt and move on. You need to give those a good run and make sure you put good rolls on them. 

Q. At what point in the year do you start thinking about the Ryder Cup?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Probably post U.S. Open it’ll really start sinking in.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT