BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2019
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BRANDT SNEDEKER: If you would seen me hit the ball out there you need to go to the range and hit some irons.  I chipped in two times on the par-3s.  Drove the ball really well, for the most part.  I kind of let a few too many get away from me on the par-4s.  Hopefully kind of hit them straight tomorrow.
Q. You see what Justin and Patrick, Jon are doing, it's sort of like last week, too, you shot really solid final round and must have felt as if you were getting run over.  How do you process that?  You have to do it with a complete game and --
BRANDT SNEDEKER: This golf course, especially moreso than last week, lends it is to low scores.  You have to go out there with the mentality of shooting 4-under par.  You have to shoot 7, 8 if you want to move up the leaderboard here.  You're seeing that today with the rounds that are out there.
So, even though I shot 5-under par I didn't move a whole lot.  You have to shoot 7, 8, 9-under par to move here.  You have that mentality going out there knowing you got to be clicking on all cylinders.  You have to hit fairways and hitting your irons close and making your putts.
Q. Are you going to the range?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Going to the range.  Shoot something that low you can't have a hole in your game.  Go figure it out and hopefully --
Q. You walk us through the 13 and 17.  I assume you would have settled for routine up and downs.
BRANDT SNEDEKER: 13 was a terrible 4-iron.  I hit it 30 yards left, up against the grandstands.  Caught a good lie on the drop.  Trying to get up close.  I was really luck to and it rolled in.
17 was way more makeable from the back bunker which is where the miss is.  I was kind of in between clubs.  Pulled it.  Really easy bunker shot downhill.  Greens are soft so you get in the bunkers you're trying to make them because the greens are soft.  You can fly them to the hole.  Actually felt like I had a pretty good chance of making that one.  Came off perfect.
Q. What would it mean to be able to get back to East Lake after missing it the last two years?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: You kind of start your season out one main goal, making East Lake.  You do that.  No matter how you get there it's been a successful year.  Obviously you want to win.
Typically to get to East Lake you have to win and play great golf.  I kind of do it a different way without winning.  Go out and shoot something crazy low.  That's it every year, make it to East Lake.  Try to parlay into a great finish.
Q. Do you feel like the last two years weren't a success, frustration that you don't make it?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Definitely, yeah.  That's kind of how I set my bar every year.  You're watching the tournament at home on the couch, you feel like you failed.  You got to go back and look at what you're doing, making sure you work on right stuff.
Q. Tiger said this week that the driver has become the easiest club in the bag to hit because of technology, that now it's changed the way consistency is perceived; you don't need to be consistent to be successful out here.  You can have four good weeks and then your year is made.
Do you agree with that, how does that make --
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I would totally agree with his assessment because the driver is the easiest.  Used to be I'm still used to playing persimmon so spin on the ball, you couldn't really hit a driver full.  You did and mishit it so far off line and so detrimental to your score so couldn't do it.
Now the drivers are made easy to hit that there's no penalty for swinging as hard as you want to at every driver because it won't go as far off line.  Doesn't spin as much.  The mishits stay straight.
There's no penalty for really going all out on one.  That's changed a lot.  You would ask the old guys, Jack Nicklaus and Davis Love and the guys that were great drivers of the golf ball, maybe once, twice a round would really ever go after one because the penalty was so severe if I mishit it at all.
Mishit goes straight in the fairway and so it's hard for me to wrap my brain to swing all out.  Kids grow up doing that.  When I grew up playing it was slow and steady, nice tempo, rhythm.  Now it's hit it as hard as you can, we'll learn how to find it later and technology helps with that.
Q. So tomorrow do you feel like is it more liberating to know like I've just got to go out and put the pedal to the metal, score no matter how I can?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I have zero pressure tomorrow.  I'm so far back that I'm going to go out and make as many birdies as possible.  No one is expecting me to win.  I don't blame them.  I can go out and shoot 30 on front-9 and be right in the middle.  You always see somebody come from off the pace when the scores are this low and post the number.  You have to be the guy to try and do that.
Q. Will you have the staggered scoring system starting next Thursday on your mind?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I had in it my mind today.  There's no really benefit for me to finish 15th.  The benefit is for me to finish Top-3 and move up the FedExCup point list.
There's no point to try not to shoot away from pins.  10th doesn't do any good this week.  In years past it might have helped me a little bit more, the old format with the points the way they were.
Now it doesn't.  Top-3 if you want to move anywhere.  That's my thought for tomorrow.  I got to try to finish top 2, 3 to be up there as high as I can.
Q. I was just going to say, because whether you like it or not this is the system.
BRANDT SNEDEKER: That's correct.
Q. Do you like it?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I'll let you know after next week.  I think everybody will be in the same boat.  Don't know.  Even the guys that are leading, you don't know until it ends next week.
After the 1st Round next week it could be 8 guys tied for the lead or something random.  Going to be really weird for us.  Never played an event where you started 5 back, 6 back, 7 back, whatever it might be.  We're all kind of waiting to see.
Q. Would you do any research before tomorrow's round to see who is ahead of you starting next Thursday?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I wouldn't do that.  I got to shoot something low, period, end of story.
Q. Kind of like moving day on Thursday?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Exactly.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT