WGC DELL MATCH PLAY
March 23, 2016
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. First time I get a chance to speak to you after competition about this golf course.  What do you make of it?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: It's great.  You're kind of on edge all day.  The wind is swirling around (inaudible).  If you are on your game, making birdies, you're having some fun, but if you're off a little bit (inaudible).  It was a good test today.
Q. You guys are used to playing in match play, but having the urgency of needing to advance after one day.  This format changed a year ago.  How do you think that changes the strategy when you know you have three chances at it, not just one?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I think it probably takes little bit of pressure off that first match.  You obviously want to get off to a good start and win and kind of get going.  It's not the end of the world if you have a bad day or something like the first day or if somebody plays fantastic and you just don't have a chance.
So love the format change, it gives the guys a chance to work their way into form in the tournament.  Creates a lot more drama.  Friday afternoon, it's going to be different aspect around here, so it should be fun to watch.
Q. What was your yardage on 14 out of the bunker?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Out of the bunker, I had 150 to front and 175 to (inaudible).  Getting up-and-down from there was huge, making that putt, having Charley 3-putt from where he was, kind of flip the hole on him and got some momentum back.
Made a great putt on 15 and birdied 16 and all of a sudden it's over.  It's amazing how momentum can switch like that in a match and just change the whole output of the match.  At that point I thought I hit it in the water off the tee and (inaudible), thought I was going down two.  All of a sudden, it flip flops and I go to even and have all the momentum.
Q. Are you pretty comfortable with driver off the deck there on 16?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Oh, yeah.  I did it yesterday and loved it.  I knew exactly what to do there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT