ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 20, 2016
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q
6-under on the round.  Finish -5.  Thoughts on how you played today.?   
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I played really solid.  I drove it great.  Hit good iron shots, made some putts and I only had one bad one on 8, cost me a bogey.  Nice way to come in off the week and not playing for a couple weeks and momentum going next week in Match Play.   
Q
For our listeners out there, as the leaders go off later on today, your thoughts on how the course is set up.  What are some of the difficulties out there on their round?   
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Obviously with the wetness you got to be in the fairways today if you want a chance.  The greens are soft.  They're receptive.  You can be aggressive.  There's not really a pin they can hide from you out there.  That's why the scores are so low.   
The par-5s are getable.  You have some eagle holes, 4, 6, 16, pins are accessible for second shots in there.  So, the leaders are going to have to go out and make a lot of birdies.  Even par isn't going to get it done today with those guys.  Fun to watch on TV.  Should be a lot of drama.   
Q
Finally, the ribs you're okay?  Tell us your physical condition now.   
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I feel better.  The last couple days felt better.  Kind of working my way back.  Still got some soreness in there which is going to happen.   
I've gotten over the worse of it.  Hopefully keeps getting better and should be a hundred percent hopefully by the end of next week.   
I had some intracostal strains which is cartilage that attaches to your rib bones pulled.  The cartilage got inflamed and strained and I had some strains in there so just kind of a -- one of those things kind of hurts every time you swing so the more you do it the worse you make it.  I took some time off to make sure I didn't screw it up too bad.   
Q
Is it left over from --   
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I'm trying to figure it out.  This is a different problem.  Muscular and cartilage.  We're looking into everything it possibly could be, some underlying reason why it is that way. The same thing, it's always been a little different.  Maybe change the way I workout.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT