FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
February 1, 2016
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What were the range of emotions that went from when you finished at 18, play was suspended and then you came out to warm-up this morning?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: You can't imagine what was going through my head.  Just because of the weather conditions and what was forecasted for today and whether I got a good break or bad break by getting done last night.   
I can't tell you how excited I am to be back, be a champion here again, how unbelievable the last 48 hours have been.  I thought I was out of the tournament starting on Sunday morning, and now to have a chance or to be holding the trophy is unbelievable.  Everything worked out perfectly for me.  You cannot make up the extreme events that had to happen for me to have this chance and they all kind of fell in a line perfectly.  I cannot do that anymore.  I hate watching this stuff because I have no control.   
 Q.  It was fun watching you, though.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I bet it was.   
 Q.  Talk about the success you've had here in the State of California in early season.  What is it that gets you rolling?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I don't know, but I love seeing that 2021 U.S. Open over there on the side of this board.  I don't know what it is about California, I love the greens, I love being out here.  This time of year has always been huge.  My career started right here at Torrey Pines, finishing third my rookie year.  And to be back -- I couldn't explain it.  I wish we could play all year out here only the West Coast, because I absolutely played fantastic and I love being out here.  So it's been a unbelievable start to the year for me.   
 Q.  I asked you about how you felt about your final round and you go, oh, it's a good second place, and we found out what happened.  Could we have a crazier finish?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: No, we cannot.  I woke up this morning -- I shouldn't say woke up, I hardly slept.  So when I finally got out of bed, and I looked outside and saw there was no wind blowing, and I thought, oh, man, I guess I got the raw end of this one.   
And then before the guys went out, it started pounding and playing awful and those guys had the worst end it have today.  Those last six holes played so hard compared to what I had yesterday.  I got really, really fortunate.   
So you got to have some luck in this game.  I think I got my fair share, so unbelievable to be the champion.   
 Q.  You got the short end of it at Sony and now turns around a little bit.  But more than anything, you're right.  I don't want to say it was unfair for those guys, it was just different.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, it was.   
 Q.  To expect the wind to come out of the left the way it did made it so hard?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yesterday, I was trying to explain to guys, I had -- it was tough because it was raining and cold and windy, but it was all left-to-right and helping me the last four or five holes.  I didn't have really into the wind shots until 16.   
Today they had the complete opposite.  13, 14, 15 were all dead into the wind.  Playing brutally long.  And even 18 playing brutally long.   
So the first 7 holes, they didn't have to play were brutally hard on me.  And the last seven they had today were brutally hard on them.  I feel bad for them, because they played fantastic.  K.J. and Jimmy both played fantastic rounds of golf and I think they got the short end of the stick on this one.   
But everything works out in the end and those guys will have other chances to win.   
 Q.  You look like a Southern California surfer.  You belong out here.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: It's been unbelievable.  I can't believe it.  Of all the places in the world, I play my best golf in California.  But it's worked out that way.  I love being out here with people, I love the people out here, I just love these golf courses we play out here are really special and we're so fortunate to be out here this time of year.   
 Q.  Who thought poa annua would be so great to you?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Pop stroke, man.   
 Q.  Most financially rewarding range session in his career today for Brandt.  You've talked to me several times about what it's like to wait in the clubhouse.  And go back to Hilton Head, go back to Greensboro, you said it's excruciating.  You had to wait nearly 23 hours.  How difficult was it?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: It was awful.  I tweeted out this morning, I still don't know how families of players out here deal with it or that.  My wife saw me, I was a nervous wreck.  She said, you need to go hit balls, do something.  Just get away.  Because you're making me nervous.  So it was unbelievable.   
The range of emotions from the lack of sleep I got last night, just replaying everything that could possibly happen today. And then replaying everything that went wrong in my round yesterday that I could have made. Had a shaky shot here and there.  Unbelievable now to stand here as the Champion.  I would not have guessed it this morning when I woke up.  I would have thought the best case scenario would be a playoff and to be here as the Champion now is pretty special.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT