SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 17, 2016
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Brandt, after a bit of a slow start on the front, you played a very solid Back 9, 31 shots, came up a little bit short in the playoff.  Take us through your play down the stretch and then the playoff.
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah.  Played pretty solid all day.  Just had one bad swing on the front nine on the par-3 and made bogey there.  Double-crossed a 5-iron, and then just didn't make any putts.  It was one of those days where I played solid, and the birdies I made I hit five feet, just kind of tap-in birdies.
Frustrating because I knew I was playing well and did play well today.  I just didn't make the putts I needed to make to win a golf tournament.  I had a chance obviously in regulation on 17.  I had a good look there and didn't hit a great putt.  Then on the first playoff hole, leaving that putt short is going to probably sting tonight and tomorrow.
All in all a solid week.  Just gotta find a way to get it done.  Unfortunately that's what we try to do out here and work hard to do and I didn't do it.
THE MODERATOR: Open it up for questions.
Q. You hit driver usually always on 18.  Any second guessing on that one?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: No, not at all.  Probably the worst swing of the week on the tee shot there.  I hit four great drives there -- five great drives there, just trying to get it to the fairway.  I don't like hitting 5-wood there because if you miss it at all, can't really get home in two.
I pulled off, I had 7-iron in my hand, or 8-iron in my hand.  If I don't end up in the rough, I can chase it and end up on the green.  Obviously a horrible tee shot in playoff.  But 8 or 10-footer for birdie and didn't make it.
Q. Two quick things.  Can you just walk us through the last putt, and then just overall level of disappointment given how certainly excited --
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah.  Last putt was kind of a microcosm of my week.  I had it read left edge, and with my typical speed, it is a left-edge putt, and I kind of hit a weak putt again, and it kind of broke off and missed.  It was probably an outside left putt pace I hit it at, but I was planning on hitting it four or five feet by because I wasn't worried about one coming back.  And I hit about a foot by.
That's kind of exactly how my week went.  Even the first playoff hole, I told myself, be aggressive, hit a good putt, and barely got to the front edge, and I'm used to rolling those^  three feet by.  So just kind of never really got comfortable with the speed of the greens for some reason.  I don't know why.  Can't figure it out.
Q. Level of frustration?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Pretty frustrated, to say the least.  I feel like I played -- I got about as little out of my round as I possibly could have for a couple of days, as good as I played.  I hit so many quality golf shots, had so many good looks at birdies, and if I putt the way I did last week, I'm at 25 or 26-under par.  And this is a normal week, and I putted so poorly I couldn't give myself a chance to get any separation at all.
Q. (Inaudible).
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah.  You know, new driver is awesome.  New golf ball I've put in play they're awesome.  So I'm excited about that this season.  I'm definitely hitting it longer and definitely getting the ball spinning more on the green and doing some good stuff with the golf ball.  I'm excited about that.
And I think it's going to be a good season.  These last two weeks are probably some of the best ball striking I've ever had in my career and didn't get a lot out of it short game wise.  But I will, and I know it's going to come around.
So I'm excited about the next especially the West Coast.  The West Coast has always been good to me, and my next start is in San Diego, which I have a great history at, and then Phoenix and Pebble.  So really excited for that three-week stretch.
Q. You went on that real good tear a couple of years ago, won Pebble.
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah.
Q. Would you be surprised if you --
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Not at all.  I'm actually expecting something similar to that.  Not to win every week, but I expect to have chances and continue to have a chance on Sunday.  Like I said, I feel like I'm playing good enough and hitting the ball good enough.
I thought fantastic out there today.  I really only made one poor decision all day.  Leaving the ball in the right spots, getting up-and-down, the little stuff that we do that gets overlooked probably by the end of the week, but I'll take that away more than anything is I probably saw it the best I've seen it in a long time this week.
Q. (Inaudible).
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Gap wedge.
Q. Talk about your approach on -- the first time you played 18 in regulation, knowing you need birdie to catch up.
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, it was in the rough and putt kind of a weird lie, and I thought I could get it on the green pretty easily and came out kind of dead and stayed just short.  It was actually a really great spot to leave it.  And I did a really good job leaving that putt.  You can leave it three feet up the hill, four feet up the hill dead straight.  I wasn't too concerned about anything other than doing that, and I did a great job of doing that there.
Q. (Inaudible).
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I'll probably come back next year.  It's been a pretty good week and I want to make sure I get in the loop before this week soon so I can make sure it's a double-header over here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT