BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2019
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Coming off some momentum from last week; pretty big golf course.  How did you manage your way around it?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, I drove it really well.  I didn't miss a fairway.  You do that around here -- played the par-5s really well.  I only made one mistake, and that was on the par-3, I kind of double-crossed 6-iron.  Besides that, I hit the ball really well.  Gave myself a lot of opportunities, and when I missed it, I missed it in the right spots, and got up-and-down easily.  The golf course is soft today.  It was gettable.  I had the right frame of mind going out where I knew I had to make birdies and couldn't just kind of hit fairways and middle of greens and move on.   
 Q.  Some of your memories from 2012 are really good, some not so good.  Did you rely on your experience here that week out there today?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I did, yeah.  I mean, the golf course has not changed at all since 2012.  Maybe a few yardages here and there, but for the most part it's the same.  I knew a lot of -- pulled back a lot of memories here.  We played a ton of practice rounds here, played probably six or eight times that week of the Ryder Cup year.  So I pulled on all those old images I had, and good memories, I kind of locked out the bad ones.  But it definitely made a difference, I think.  I felt probably a lot more comfortable than most guys did.   
 Q.  You've won the FedExCup before under a little different format.  As we come in now just three weeks, this week, does that make it easier or harder for you knowing kind of what you need to do?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I don't think it makes it any easier.  I think this year is a little bit different for everybody because there's a lot more onus on -- you can't really have a week off because when I won it, we had four playoff events.  I played bad actually (indiscernible) the year I won.  I played great in year three.  You can't do that anymore.  You've got to play great in all three of them.  Definitely a little more pressure to make sure your game stays solid these three events, and (indiscernible) where it was before because you get on a good hot stretch here (indiscernible).   
 Q.  Brandt, 66, how easy was that?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: It was great.  I drove the ball fantastic, which I have to do around here.  I don't have the length to kind of overpower it, so great job of doing that.  Made some key putts throughout the course of the round and had a really fun day out there.  Played really, really solid.  So kind of built off last week where I was a little bit shaky with my ball-striking.  I felt a lot more comfortable today, so hopefully I can kind of keep that going the next three days.   
 Q.  You made some good putts on the back nine.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, that's what I do.  I make putts.  If I'm going to be up at the top of the leaderboard I'm going to have to make some putts.  I'm not trying to miss them out there, so hopefully keep doing that the rest of the week.   
 Q.  What makes you so comfortable here?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: You know, I think playing the Ryder Cup here helped.  I think it definitely did.  I kind of knew where you could and couldn't miss it on most of these holes, and that makes a big difference around here because it can be kind of a daunting golf course, a lot of blind shots, a lot of shots where you really don't know where you want to put it.  So having that bunch of rounds that I played here in 2012 probably definitely helped.   
 Q.  Did the soft conditions help or hurt you?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: It helped me a lot.  I'm hitting longer irons into these greens than most of the guys are, so the greens are soft.  I can be just as aggressive as they are.  If the greens get firmer I've got to play kind of more away from pins and they can be a little bit more aggressive than I can.  Tee to green it's not getting any firmer this week just because of the humidity and what we have in the forecast, so it's going to be a lot of birdies.  You're going to have to make a lot of red numbers this week to win.   
 Q.  After last week how much momentum are you on right now?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Momentum is huge this time of year.  You can't falsely create it.  You've got to go out there and create it yourself.  You see it every year in the Playoffs, guys get on a hot streak.  If they win, they might win twice.  If they don't win, two, three straight weeks, especially with the new format, it's much more important than it was in years past because you've only got three tournaments to do it.  That momentum is huge this time of year.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT