SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 14, 2016
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I know you wanted that one on 18, but you played pretty well today.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I did.  I didn't drive it probably as good as I'm going to need to the rest of the week, but I got a lot out of my game today.  My iron play was fantastic.  My wedge play was fantastic, and I really kind of made the best out of a round that could have gone either way and played -- scored really well and had a lot of fun.  It was good.   
 Q.  It's a golf course, obviously the breezes were up, not a lot.  But a lot of turns in the fairways.  Is that what really gives you problems driving the ball?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, it does.  You know, you gotta take tight lines off tees here.  You get the ball going a couple of yards off line, fairways are so firm, the ball runs through in the rough and you're kind of scrambling from there just to get on the greens.  So I was able to kind of make a couple of birdies out of the rough today, and then when I did hit the fairways, took great advantage of them, made some tee birdies and hit some wedges close and kind of survived when I didn't hit the fairways.  So all in all a great round, but going to have to keep doing that the next three days to have a chance.   
 Q.  Is today kind of an extension of last week off the solid play?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah.  Very much so.  I feel way more comfortable this week than I did last week.  Last week I had a new driver in the bag, had a new ball in play.  I had some new stuff we were working on with the swing, and after four good days last week, kind of feel more comfortable with how I'm supposed to swing, how I'm supposed to kind of step up to it and know where my miss is going to be.  And today is an extension of that and hopefully I can kind of keep building on it every day.   
 Q.  Talk about the new driver.  A few times I saw you hit it pretty good out there.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, I was getting it by Davis, which never happens for me.  That was nice.  Bridgestone sent me this driver literally a week before Hyundai, and I got it, hit it one time, and I said I think I found a new driver.  Worked out great last week, it was great today and it was kind of nice to have an extra five or eight yards every once in a while when you need it.   
 Q.  Well done today.  
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT