HYUNDAI TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 9, 2016
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Did you see a lot birdies out there when you were teeing off this morning?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I thought four or 5-under would be a good score today, because it's a different wind.  Once we got out there and got going I realized the pins weren't in too many tucked positions and we had the par-5s, were all kind of gettable today.  There wasn't one that was dead into the wind.  You could get to them all, except for 18, I guess.  So when that's the case you need to be aggressive.  Obviously being as far back of Jordan as we are you need to make as many birdies as you can.   
 Q.  Which one of the winds are the most challenging?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I don't know, this wind -- it's weird.  This wind starts you off tougher.  Front nine definitely plays tougher in this wind, I feel like.   
But a lot of the trouble shots, the shots where you can make double bogey, the wind can help push the ball in the hazards.   
Today the wind kind of pushes away from hazards so you can be more aggressive off tees and on the par-5s and that.  So I think even though some of these holes, like 1 and some of the others, play a lot longer today, a lot of the tough tee shots here play easier because the wind's not pushing the ball into the hazards.   
 Q.  I heard you mentioned Jordan.  When you look up at the leaderboard and see him doing this, I know it's still very young in his career, but is there almost that Tiger feeling that you have to take it to another level?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I tell you what, you can't make a lot of mistakes.  I played a couple practice rounds with him this week and yeah, he just hits so many quality golf shots.  And when he doesn't, his short game is so good he doesn't make any bogeys.  So it puts a lot of pressure on you to make sure you're on top of your game.  And yeah, he's going to push guys out here to get better because we're, obviously, a few strokes behind right now.  I don't see it going anywhere but the other way.  So, maybe he might have an off day every once in a while, I suppose.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT