HYUNDAI TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 7, 2016
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOHN BUSH: We would like to welcome Brandt Snedeker to the into the interview room.  6-under par.  67 to open up the tournament.  Brandt great start.  If we can get some comments on your round.   
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, tough continuation of how I've been playing the last week since I've been over here.  It's great to be out here.  Drove the ball pretty well.  Gave myself a lot of good positions off the tee and made a few putts.  Made a couple long putts on the back nine.  That got some momentum going.   
Conditions like we had today, you had to be aggressive and try to make birdies, because of the way it's set up out there, so you got to be to go at pins and be aggressive.   
JOHN BUSH: I know you have been a little under the weather this week.  Are you okay, though?   
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah.  I got a head cold and it was not fun yesterday.  Kind of getting over it today and hopefully by tomorrow, I should be good.   
JOHN BUSH: All right.  Questions.   
 Q.  Is there a level of comfort on this golf course or is that the reason why you came over here so early.  You played -- did you play the last five days here.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, I did.  And there's a level of comfort, I know the golf course pretty well and I think getting over here early, the greens always pose a big problem.  You get comfortable on greens and be aggressive on putts that you know are fast or slow.  But you just have to know the putts, they're hard to read.  So that's kind of the reason I came over to do that.   
 Q.  When did you get in?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I got in Wednesday a week ago Wednesday.  So I probably played four rounds here, I played Thursday, Friday, Saturday Sunday.  So four rounds, yeah.   
 Q.  You talked the other day about that round in Australia.  Could you, you bounced back from that pretty well.  Would you have bounced back as well from that say 10 years ago?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Oh, no.  No.  I've learned being out here you're going to have rough days and how you respond to them is kind of how you're going to be.  You're going to have bad breaks out here, going to have bad stuff happen.  You got to be able to get over that really quickly and move on and learn from it.  Not forget it, but learn from it.  I think going to see Butch right after that, kind of working on it immediately, kind of getting it in the back of my brain, fix the problem and keep going forward.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Hopefully San Diego, he's planning on being there for San Diego.   
 Q.  What was it?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: He had his foot operated on.  He had some toe problems that were hurting him real bad the end of last year.  He had surgery right after Vegas and he had six to 12 week recovery time.  You just don't know.  Feet are really funny things and hopefully he'll be good by San Diego.   
 Q.  You seem to be turning around really quick, played Australia, played the Shootout, and played here.  Three weeks if I'm doing the math right.  Will you adjust your schedule at all to try to get some breaks this season away from the playoffs?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: A little bit, just because of the way the schedule was so -- events you always want to play, that you love, that you circle, and sometimes, this year especially, they're kind of thrown all over the place.  So you're trying to make the best schedule you can.  Also trying to get some rest and as much as possible.  So it's going to be a balancing, it's going to be a tough year for that.   
 Q.  Will you skip an event that you normally would play?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Might have to.  I looked at a couple.  Haven't really changed through the Masters.  My schedule won't change too much.  But after the Masters there are two I normally play in that I can't, just because of scheduling purposes.   
 Q.  Where does this event rank on the list of events that you really want to play?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: It's up there, because if you're here, you won.  So something you always want to -- great goal to have at the beginning of the year is to make sure you being make it back mere.  That means you accomplished something throughout the year.  It's a great reward.  The golf course is a lot fun to play.  It's a great time of year to be here in Maui and the family always has a great time.  So it's hard to beat.   
 Q.  You're a good putter, very good putter, coming here and playing on these greens, do you find that a difficult challenge like some of the other guys or do you like the way it?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: It just takes time to get used to them.  Get used to the slopes and how slow some putts are and how fast some putts are.  Just takes -- and seeing breaks again.  A lot of times we play kind of tight breaks and over here you can't.  You got to play big looping putts and kind of use your imagination and not so much rigid and where a ball should start.   
JOHN BUSH: All right, Brandt, thank you, sir.  Appreciate it.   
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Thanks.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT