WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 21, 2015
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JOHN BUSH: We'd like to welcome Brandt Snedeker into the Interview Room, tying the course record today with a 9-under par 61. Closing it off with a little tap-in for birdie on last.   
Brandt, let's get some comments on an excellent day.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, it was good. I obviously struggled yesterday a little bit and to go out there today and made a lot of putts and get myself back in the tournament. I was trying to shoot 7-under in my mind, get back in the mix and to shoot 9 was definitely something I wasn't expecting on the range this morning but great to get it.   
Hopefully I'm not too many behind going into tomorrow and have a chance to win over the weekend.  
JOHN BUSH: We'll go right into questions.  
   
 Q. Leaving the course last night you were on the putting green, last guy there, obviously. Must have found something. What were you working on?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah. You know, it was just had a little hitch in my stroke, kind of felt like I was kind of fanning the putter face too much and stayed last night practicing it and trying to make sure I felt comfortable with it.   
Made a great putt on 11 to kind of get things going, about 6, 8-footer, the important putts you need to make and once I did that I was going off to the races.  
   
 Q. It's kind of interesting, two very different golf courses. You won at Forest Oaks, got the course record here. Is it kind of strange?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: It's just Greensboro. I don't know what it is. They are -- they could not be more different golf courses and different grasses, different everything.   
But I've had success here in the past. I love -- I've had a couple chances to win here at Sedgefield and love the golf course. Just have -- we always have a good time, relaxing week. It kind of bleeds over into the golf.  
   
 Q. When you wear this on the shirt does it add anything this week that you feel like --  
 BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah of course, yeah. Yes, I do. You come to these weeks where you have sponsors and I've done quite a few of these now, few of my sponsored events.   
Always want to play well for them because A, they believe in you, that's why they're sponsoring you and, B, they're putting up a huge investment in the tournament as well.   
You feel like they want to make sure we realize how much we appreciate it out here and, you know, haven't had great success here but either miss the cut or have a chance to win. Hopefully I've made the cut, have a chance to win on the weekend. Should be a lot of fun, though.  
   
 Q. Of the two golf courses, is there one that you think suits your game better?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Definitely I think this one suits my game better than Forest Oaks. More of a drive it -- distance here is not an overwhelming factor. You put it in the short stuff off the tee, lots of wedges.   
The par-5s are reachable for everybody in the field. Turns into a wedge and putting contest which kind of turns up to what I do well. So, I love this place. It's really good since they redone the greens.  
   
 Q. I didn't see much of your round yesterday but what I did, it looked like you were showing a little more frustration than you normally do.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah. I was frustrated. I felt like I played great in the Pro-Am, I didn't miss a golf shot. Went out there yesterday and didn't hit one the way I was supposed to.   
Really frustrated with how -- the two days could not be more different, you know, and then today, kind of the opposite. I don't have the answer yet. Still trying to find it but definitely frustrated.   
I spent a long time on the range. Definitely the last one to leave the golf course last night. Good to see that that paid off today and was able to shoot something low.  
JOHN BUSH: Brandt, talk a little bit about the buzz that's in the air and your excitement going into the weekend, especially with Tiger playing well, Davis up there at the top.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: It's great. They've done a great job here of making every year we come back the course is a little bit better, the facilities are -- they do the little stuff to make us excited about coming back. You're starting to see it with the caliber of players we have playing here every year.   
Played behind Adam Scott. And you look at the guys on the leaderboard right now between Davis and Tiger and some guys have a chance to win. It's going to be pretty impressive over the weekend with Martin Kaymer having a good chance, too.  
It's fun to have this kick-off, almost turns into the fifth playoff event now because guys are playing to make it to next week. Every point is extremely important. I've learned that the hard way, being on the outside looking in. That's why I'm here and looking forward to take advantage of the weekend.  
   
 Q. Has this tournament grown in the eyes of the players, this date in particular and once it starts counting toward Ryder Cup do you think the field will be even better?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I think this is, in my opinion, kind of talked to the Wyndham guys and even Mark Brazil about, when they first got the date they weren't super-excited about it.   
I told them in the long run probably would be one of the better dates you can have because there will be a lot of guys that need to come play this week to improve your position.   
You're starting to see that more and more. Guys are starting to realize how important it is to be higher up on the FedExCup list going into The Playoffs to have a chance to win it.   
Every point is crucial so year-in, year-out they get a great field here and it does produce a great champion.   
The guys have won here in the past 7 years, it's a pretty impressive list of guys. I think every year it's getting better and better and guys -- I've not heard one guy say anything negative about the golf course since they switched the greens. I look forward, I think everybody looks forward to coming and playing.  
   
 Q. Did you gain some momentum last week at the PGA? It seemed like you had a pretty good finish.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah. I definitely -- I rolled the ball fantastic last week. Kind of struggled with my iron play and I knew if I can kind of get my irons anywhere around the realm of acceptability I was putting so good I would be okay.   
So that gave me some confidence after yesterday knowing listen, I'm close, I just need to get something going the right direction and I did today. Putted great, still. That's good. Came around today and going into The Playoffs I know what I need to work on to fix and be more consistent and have a chance.  
   
 Q. The greens, were they fast today and this week they're calling for two days of dry weather so how fast do you think they might get?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: They are starting to speed up a bit. As the round went on today -- it was really windy this morning, it kind of dried them out even more than they are. They're a great speed to hole putts this morning. Rolling right around 12.  
And I look for them to be a lot faster over the weekend and as they dry out even more and more. It will be tough with any kind of wind, all these greens are exposed, high up. The wind can affect the ball quite a bit.   
JOHN BUSH: Brandt Snedeker, thanks.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Thanks.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT