TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 27, 2015
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Coming into today's round you had expectations, but have you exceeded those today?BRANDT SNEDEKER: Not really.  I played great the first two rounds, but couldn't get anything going.  It was a really frustrate separating first two days.  I made so many mistakes.  Made two putts, and today (Indiscernible) I knew if I stayed patient out there and kept doing the right stuff, good stuff would happen. Today I did.  I made a lot of key putts and gave myself a chance for tomorrow.  I'm sure I'm going to be behind going into tomorrow, but at least I have a chance.Q. You had that really fast finish and I noticed on 10 and 11 two great chances and you didn't make them.  It seemed you wanted to birdie every hole, but a strong finish in the end?BRANDT SNEDEKER: It was.  I did a great job today.  Yesterday I bogeyed 17 and 18 coming in, and that's a real killer for my chances.  But to finish the way I did today and birdie two of the last four holes, that's a good way to finish.  Gives me a good shot going into tomorrow. If I can get off to a good start, put some pressure on whoever is leading because I'm sure I'll be behind tomorrow, but tomorrow I'll have to go low to win around here that's for sure.Q. You think you'll get another 63?BRANDT SNEDEKER: I'll take a 64.  I won't push it (laughing).Q. Great round today.  First I want to ask you about 17.  Tell me about that shot?BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, I hit a great tee shot there and had a perfect number for a sand wedge.  Hit it exactly where I thought I had to to give us a chance of making it.  Almost went in.  Went over the back edge, but if you get lucky a couple times during the round, we had a perfect number for a perfect par.  That was one of them.  Put a great sand wedge in there and put it close.Q. You got through 15, 16, 17 in 2-under, and those can be big holes in this event particularly.  Is that something that you really think about?BRANDT SNEDEKER: Definitely.  You go two stretches of golf in this tournament where you have to be aggressive or make bogeys because otherwise (Indiscernible).  You have to kind of start out there, especially birdie No. 4.  A really tough hole on the golf course.  Really got it going in the right direction.  Then to go out there and 15th is a pivotal hole.  Drop the ball in there, make a birdie and kind of keep an average with the leaders. If you hit it in the water there, you're losing it.  So it's a very pivotal stretch of golf.  I was able to play well today, and hopefully can do the same thing tomorrow.Q. You've posted an 11-under heading into tomorrow.  How comfortable do you feel in that spot?BRANDT SNEDEKER: I'd love to be a lot more under, because I know if I'm not going to be in the lead going into tomorrow.  I'll be chasing from behind.  This golf course leads itself to that.  You can go out there and shoot a low one and kind of post something.  So hopefully --  I played two great rounds the first two rounds and got nothing out of them.  So hopefully that saves some more for tomorrow, and I can go out and shoot something low.Q. You alluded to you have to get a low score out here potentially.  How aggressive will you be tomorrow?BRANDT SNEDEKER: Extremely aggressive.  Tomorrow is a day I'll have to go out there and make a lot of birdies.  The forecast we have is it's going to be soft.  The greens here are perfect.  So you know you're going to see a 16, 17, or 18 under that's going to win here.  So go out there and be aggressive is all you can do.Q. I got to see you play a little golf the first two days.  I thought you struck it well, and you just didn't make as many putts.  Putts finally started going down for you on this Saturday morning.BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, it was nice.  I played well the first two rounds and got zero out of my game.  I realized if I stay patient and give myself a chance today they'd start going eventually.  I wasn't rolling the ball too goo.  Today they did.  I made a lot of key putts early in the round to keep the momentum going and kind of held on to it all day.Q. You get out of the gate well with birdies at 2, 3, and 4.BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, picking up a shot and a half on the field there.  That was a tough hole.  Made about a 30-footer there that I was not expecting, and made another birdie on 8 out of a bunker which wasn't expected.  That got me some momentum going. The biggest thing I was proud of is finishing the way I did today.  Yesterday I had two bogeys coming in late.  I was able to make a couple birdies coming in late today.Q. Tell me about your approach into 17.  My theory is you had so many back woods at Chambers Bay that you had a lot of practice?BRANDT SNEDEKER: I fell on a perfect number there.  That's one of those that happens once a week.  You have a perfect number with a backboard behind it.  You know you can't go wrong and you should be aggressive.  It should be pretty close and pulled it off.  Hit my wedges all week and gave myself some chances and it's another good opportunity.Q. 63 is 63 no matter what, but you had pretty good scoring conditions out there?BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, it was ideal.  The first ten holes we didn't have a breath of wind, the greens were perfect, the ball was still moving pretty good, so you couldn't ask for better conditions this morning.  So hopefully the weather gets through here tonight.  Hopefully it blows a gale and gust this afternoon.  It gives in a chance to stay close to the lead.Q. What are some hole locations we should look for as the leaders come through this afternoon?BRANDT SNEDEKER: I think 14 is going to be a really tough one to pin to the back.  If you get too aggressive there you'll make a bogey.  15 the birdie eagle hole today, with the pin up front left, and 16 is a very sneaky tough pin.  It's a par-3, it's a short iron in your hand, but if you leave it up half a club short you can spin it back in the water.  So those three holes right there are pivotal.  See who plays it well, manages it well and who doesn't.Q. Moving day.  Tell us about your round and kind of being aggressive today out here?BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, I had ideal conditions this morning.  Not a lot of wind.  The course is in perfect shape, so I knew I had to go out and shoot something low to even have a chance tomorrow.  So I got off to a fast start and kind of kept the momentum going and made a chip in on 8 for birdie.  It was a big kind of a momentum boost, and finishing strong today.  Birdied 15, and 17, it was two birdies that kind of kept me up on the leaderboard and gave me a chance.  I'm probably three or four behind going into tomorrow.  So still have a chance to go in and post something low tomorrow.Q. Talk about that approach shot on 17?BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, I was saying earlier, you fall into one of those perfect numbers maybe once a week.  I had a perfect sand wedge number on the backboard.  Doesn't get any easier than that out here.  Can't put that in the hole, I need to find another job.  It was absolutely perfect.  Came off exactly how I was looking and almost went in.  To steal one there, that's a tough hole, so to steal one there gave me some good thoughts coming into tomorrow.  I played the hole really well all week, so hopefully I can do it one more day.Q. You might have heard the rain is on its way and it's supposed to rain much of the night maybe.  How might a wet course affect play tomorrow?BRANDT SNEDEKER: It will affect it a lot.  The ball is going pretty far right now.  The course is playing pretty short.  It will affect the way clubs go get off tees tomorrow, greens will be a lot softer, so probably have to be a lot more aggressive, because you're not going to be able to use the slopes on the greens to get close. This course it seems like every year we get thunderstorms here or something like that.  So we're kind of used to playing it that way.  You just have to shoot some low.  15, 16, 18, somewhere in there is going to win this golf tournament.  So hopefully there is a low one out there for me tomorrow.Q. Do you watch now?BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, I'll go watch see what the guys are doing.  Hopefully the wind picks up because I'm already in.  It will be tough this afternoon.  I'll go watch to see how the guys are doing.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT