U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 21, 2015
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Pretty good day?  BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, it was a good day.  And very disappointed right now just because I did a great job on the front nine giving myself a chance.  Going to the back nine -- and the back nine was gettable -- and I didn't execute the shots I needed to on 10 through 14, and kind of put myself behind the 8 ball.  And really disappointed with that.  Because I was playing really, really well and got to be able to find a way to get yourself some birdie putts, and I didn't do that.   Q.  Did you have a number you wanted to be at by the end of the day?  BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, I thought 5 was the number.  I felt like if I could shoot 6-under par today I might have a legit chance. I shot 3 on the front nine to get to 2.  I knew 16 and 18 were legit birdie holes, and we had 12.  I thought I had a chance of doing that and posting 5.  And hit a really bad swing, only really awful swing all week was on 11.  6-iron and made bogey there and take kind of derailed me and I didn't birdie 12.  And hit it in that pot bunker, like I've done twice this week on 14.  It's a great design. I was laying there, I hit it there twice.  So hopefully if we ever come back here or wherever I go next, I'll aim where I need the ball to go. I'm disappointed.  Still a good week, and I played well, but you don't know how many times you have a chance to win one of these on the back nine.  I had a chance and just didn't execute.   Q.  Was it gettable on the back?  BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, it was, it was very gettable.  The USGA did a great job setting up the golf course.  The golf course was very fair, very gettable if you could shoot 3, 4, 5-under par. With that being said, if you weren't on you were going to struggle.  The greens rolled great.  The pin positions were awesome.  I thought moving the tees up was really cool.  They did a great job setting the golf course up today.   Q.  Overall as a venue, did you like the venue?  BRANDT SNEDEKER: I had a blast.  I understand guys were complaining about the greens, whatever it might be.  But I played on quite a few greens that were just as bad, if not worse, than this on the PGA Tour. I think we get kind of in the moment of the tournament and get wrapped up in everything, and everything at majors seems to be turned on overdose.  Every little thing sets you off. I thought the ball rolled fine, and if you hit good putts they'll go in. You can't beat the venue.  The vistas out there were gorgeous.  I thought the golf course played great.  And you're going to have a great champion.  The guys on the top of the leaderboard are all quality players and are going to be great champions.  I think it's a great venue.   Q.  How about the crowds, they seemed pretty responsive?  BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, it was awesome.  One of the best grounds I've seen at a major in a long time. I think the Pacific Northwest is starved for big golf.  I thought it was a great thing to be here.  I love the fans.  The fans are golf crazy because they don't get to see it very often.  The crowds were huge.  It was a lot of fun to play in front of them.  I fed off of them a lot today because there was a lot of energy.  I hope we can come back soon, because I had a blast up here.   Q.  Can you talk about 6 through 9 and why you were doing pretty there?  BRANDT SNEDEKER: Four straight birdies there.  I plodded along.  I was playing really good, I wasn't making any putts all week.  Finally hit one close on 6 and made a 3-footer there for birdie.  On 7 I made a 10-footer, 8 I made another 4-footer, and 9 I made about a 6-footer. I had a lot of really good looks.  I just couldn't carry that into the back nine.  I did a good job on 10 making a good par put, then 11 through 14 kind of got me. So go to bed tonight I'll probably think of those four holes and what I should have done differently.  It'll probably keep me up a little bit tonight.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT