CROWNE PLAZA INVITATIONAL AT COLONIAL
May 24, 2015
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   ... out there on the right-hand side.   You hit it right where you wanted to, didn't you?
    BRANDT SNEDEKER:   No, actually I pulled it a little bit.   I knew exactly -- I've seen that putt hit here a thousand times, I know exactly how you're supposed to hit it and it was my worst putt of the day, which was really disappointing because I really played pretty well, hit a bunch of great putts today and just wasn't able to get it done.   Chris played great down the stretch and did what he needed to do to win the golf tournament and I didn't, so it's pretty frustrating.

Q.   With ball in hand out here throughout the golf course, are you kind of surprised that 12-under ended up being the number?
    BRANDT SNEDEKER:   It's tough with the way the wind was playing, it was really gusty and kind of going all over the place.   The golf course gave you the illusion of trying to be aggressive, and a great old golf course like this, try to be aggressive and you miss it, you end up making bogeys.   That's what happens out here.   And it's unfortunate that I made that three-putt on 13, it ended up costing me, but hit three great shots coming down the stretch, gave myself three good looks and didn't make them.   I'd do it all again, do it the exact same way and I sure bet I would make one of them.

Q.   The old girl's a really good golf course, isn't she?
    BRANDT SNEDEKER:   She is.   Just shows you, holds up to the test of time when you build them right and they did a great job here.

Q.   Can you take me to 13 with that -- did that throw you off a little bit there?
    BRANDT SNEDEKER:   No, not at all.

Q.   What was going --
    BRANDT SNEDEKER:   He was trying to get a drop, and with the situation with the ball in hand, makes everything kind of weird.   So unfortunately it just took a little longer there than we would have liked.

Q.   But it was a tough putt as it was?
    BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Tough putt as it was.   I hit a great second putt, I thought I made the second putt.   I knew that first putt was not -- tough to get close.   I was just trying to run it by and give myself a good look.   Hit a great putt, just didn't go in.

Q.   Obviously a great week.   What was the key coming here this week?
    BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I wanted to get myself in contention to give myself a chance.   I did that.   Failed miserably on that exam, though.   Should have been able to close the deal today.   I played really, really well and gave myself a good chance win the golf tournament and it's obviously frustrating when you don't.   I don't play for seconds out here, I could care less about Top 10s and stuff like that.   So it's disappointing right now, but a lot of positives obviously coming off the last few weeks that I've had.

Q.   And then on 18 obviously another putt you thought --
    BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, you know, man, did a great job of giving myself a good putt there and it's one putt I wish I could hit again today.   Didn't hit a good putt there, kind of pulled it a little bit, never really had a chance and that's disappointing because that's kind of my strength and to hit a bad putt like that when it matters is doubly hard.

Q.   You said you were getting comfortable with your swing, looked comfortable today.   You gave yourself a shot on the last.
    BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, I did.   I played some really good golf today.   Kind of disappointed with the way I played the middle of the round.   Got a little scrapey there for a little bit and made bogey.   Three-putted 13 and kind of set me back behind the eight ball.   But I had three great looks on 16, 17 and 18.   Chris did a great job of finishing the golf tournament off and I didn't.   I've got to make at least one of those, if not two of those.   Hit two good putts on 16, 17, and 18 I hit a bad one.   So it's disappointing because I worked hard all week to give myself an opportunity and it's kind of right in my wheelhouse, man.   Ten-footer right-to-left, I should make it, it's kind of where my strength is so it's disappointing when that doesn't happen.

Q.   On 13 just a case of being --
    BRANDT SNEDEKER:   It's tough, it's a tough pin location today.   Everybody was three-putting that seemed like and I was a little too conservative off the tee.   Should have been more aggressive in putting it behind the hole a little bit.   But then again I hit a great 10-footer for par there, hit a great putt that I thought I made and lipped out.   A couple three-putts today really killed me.   I three-putted two par 3s.   I'll look back on today and that's what I'll look back on, kind of be disappointed with.

Q.   Obviously you want to roll in the putt on 18 to force a playoff.   Big picture, what do you walk away with?
    BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I would say a lot of great stuff in my golf swing.   Ball striking's a lot better this week, wedge game's a lot better this week.   That being said, it still hurts.   You don't like losing golf tournaments especially with good chances like I had coming down the stretch.   Tonight will be tough but I'm playing next week at Byron Nelson, excited about it.   A golf course I like, playing good, so it should bode well.   Typically when I play good I get on streaks, so hopefully I can do that again next week.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT