CROWNE PLAZA INVITATIONAL AT COLONIAL
May 23, 2015
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You've been struggling and you've been working with Butch.   Tell us what's happened over last couple of weeks.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   You know, been trying to beat into my head what I needed to do, (inaudible) pretty stubborn, making a couple changes, and finally got on a phone call last week and last week kind of figured out what we really needed to do and I kind started of back to square one a little bit and it started clicking the middle of last week when I was home practicing and felt like was in good shape coming here, and luckily every day it's gotten a little bit better and a little bit better and hopefully can be a little bit better tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   So you won a plaid jacket in 2011 in Hilton Head and there's a plaid jacket waiting for the winner here.   The last six years the winner has come from behind.   How much do you want to put your name on that wall with all those Hall of Famers on it?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, it's pretty impressive.   I was out there on Wednesday looking at the wall and you kind of get goosebumps, the amount of guys, the Hall of Famers that have won here and the list of champions they have here, and that goes back to what a great golf course this is.   It really does produce a great champion.   If I'm going to be that guy tomorrow, I'm going to have to go out and play a great round of golf because there's a lot of guys with a chance and a lot of great players on top of the leaderboard, so it should be a lot of fun.  
   
 Q.   Brandt, another solid day, I know that you were kind of playing like this was a Sunday, you had to be aggressive out there today not knowing what the forecast is in store for us.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, you did.   I kind of went out there early and birdied my first three holes, which is obviously an ideal start at this place.   Got under early, had some chances in the middle of the round that I kind of missed and made a couple key par saves early in the back nine, got that birdie on 17 to get it to 8-under par and hopefully guys don't run off and leave me there, but should be within a couple going into tomorrow which will be nice.  
   
 Q.   The golf course playable inside the ropes is great, it's tough getting from green to tee, isn't it, in some places?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, they've done a great job.   The amount of rain they've had here and we've got some mud outside the ropes for sure, I found it on 15 today or 14 today so I know you don't want to be there.   But greens were rolling perfect and if you can kind of guess the right wind, the wind's kind of gusting all day, you'll get looks for birdie and they're still rolling great so hopefully it'll be that way tomorrow, too.  
   
 Q.   How about a shout-out to the gallery for trudging through this stuff?   It's sloppy out there, isn't it?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, I've never seen so many rain boots.   There's lots of mud out there.   I'm a little muddy from it, too, myself.   It's great to see the fans, they're obviously out here in droves today and it was loud.   So it's fun to see all the people out here having a good time.   Hopefully the weather stays away and we can get one more round in.  
   
 Q.   66 today gets you right back in the thick of things.   What do you take away from this round?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I got myself where I needed to be, which is within shouting distance of the lead.   Going into tomorrow, a lot of guys around with a chance tomorrow so got to be aggressive again.   The greens are soft, weather's going to be an issue again tomorrow, so hopefully we'll get it in like we did today.   But need to make some birdies and hopefully put some pressure on the guys on top of the leaderboard.  
   
 Q.   The way you've played the last few weeks, to have a week like this, especially a round like today, what does it mean to you going forward?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, it's huge.   I've been struggling with my ball striking quite a bit.   My short game's been great but been hitting it kind of sideways a little bit.   Butch and I got together last week and just kind of hashed it out on the phone and kind of figured out what we really needed to do and it kind of clicked.   Played last week, felt good again, square again and knew what I needed to do.   It carried into this week.   Been hitting it really well all week and hopefully can keep doing it tomorrow and give myself a chance.  
   
 Q.   Brandt, did you see this round coming today?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I got off to a great start obviously, but I was playing -- had a great warmup session, played great yesterday, feel like (inaudible) can do on the range real easily, taking it to the golf course is a little bit different right now.   Been doing a couple swing changes and for the most part it was there all day today.   I drove it great and did a good job of putting myself in good position, so hopefully I can do that again tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   How did the course play with this weather?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   It was tough.   You know, with the wind blowing the way it was, it was real gusty all day, kind of coming in different directions and different intensities, so you had to really pay attention to what was going on.   But the greens were soft, they were rolling perfect, so if you were able to put it on the green and give yourself birdie putts, you can make a lot of putts, which I did, which is nice, and hopefully can do it again tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   What are your impressions of Vijay today?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I don't know how old he is, 51, 52 years old.   He still hits the ball fantastic and a great player and you can still see why he was the No. 1 player in the world for quite a few years.   And still hits it by me, which drives me crazy.   But he's a great player and he's a Hall of Famer, you can see why after a day like today.   He's still got all his great shots he hits, still one of the best ball strikers we have out here.  
   
 Q.   Jordan said earlier that there are low scores out here that just haven't been shot yet.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Oh, yeah.   Anytime you have soft greens that are in this good of shape, if you can get on a day where you're driving great and give yourself lots of opportunities because you do have lots of wedges in your hand here because of the way the course sets up, you can shoot a low one.   But it's going to take a great day of driving and a great day of putting the ball, but I can definitely see a 6-, 7-, 8-under par round out there if some guy gets going hot, can definitely get it done.  
   
 Q.   You guys often have to make allowances for the weather this morning and tomorrow morning you're also going off early.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, going off early, yeah.  
   
 Q.   Does that take a different mental preparation?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   You know, I think we all take the outlook that you need to be prepared when you get out here and you need to get off to fast starts.   You don't know what's going to happen; might get called off the golf course a few times, might have to come back on Monday, you never know.   So want to get the momentum going early so you don't have to wait for a rain delay to try to regroup, so that's the biggest thing.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, I'm rolling it great, hit a lot of great putts.   Even putts that didn't go in today, I was hitting my lines.   On greens like this when you're doing that, you seem to -- if you're not making them, they're all getting close to going in, which is a fun feeling.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT