THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 10, 2019
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Pleased with the day's work?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, kind of continued the way I played the first two days.  I just didn't make any putts the first two days.  I think I was probably bottom half of the field in putting and finally I was hitting great putts the last two days, just none of them went in.  Finally today they went in and hit some great shots on the par 5s to make two eagles.  I think I made a 10-footer on first par 5 on the front and I made a 3-footer for an eagle there.   
So you do that, especially me, I'm not making two eagles in a round very often.  Nice to go out and post a low one.   
 Q.  Any idea when you might have done that?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: My rookie year on Tour when I shot 61 in San Diego, I did it.  That would be about the last time.   
 Q.  Do you do it twice in a three-hole span?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Just the way the golf course played today.  The way the wind is blowing, you're able to get to those two par 5s relatively easily and just took advantage of it.  Be hard for these guys this afternoon because the wind is going to pick up a little bit.  I think the 5th hole, first hole I eagled, it will be hard to get close to that one but this morning it wasn't quite as bad.   
 Q.  How much stress does the course put on your long irons?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: It does for a guy like me who is not cutting off doglegs and flying it 300 yards, I'm hitting a lot of mid- to long-irons into these holes.  Done a really good job of leaving myself with some opportunities to get up-and-down.  I've been smart about my placement and relied on my short game, which I have to do to compete on this golf course.   
Hopefully I can rely on a little bit less tomorrow and hit a few more greens that takes the stress out and it was just tough today, with the wind blowing the way it was, I don't see a lot of guys hitting a lot of greens today.   
 Q.  In contention, but you can look up East Lake this week?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I think with the new format, obviously being as close as you can to the leader going in is going to be a huge deal more so than years past.  I think everybody is trying to make as many points as they can and get as high as they possibly can.  For me who has been outside of East Lake the last few years, my main goal is to get into East Lake to make sure I have a chance and build on that tomorrow.   
 Q.  Any eagle stand out for any reason?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: On 7, I hit a 280-yard 3-wood to three feet.  That's about all I got.  That's all I got.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT