ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 21, 2015
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Golf is funny.   I had a great warm-up session yesterday before I went and played terrible, couldn't sink a putt.   Today I had a terrible warm-up session and played really, really well. 
I've got no clue what the right answer is but played really, really nice.   Made some putts and played like I did the 1st round.   Played great the 1st round.   Drove it well, hit a bunch of quality iron shots.   Fun to get back seeing those kin of results again.

Q.   Have you changed your routine on your putting at all?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   No.

Q.   Been the same?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah.

Q.   That's it?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: That's it.

Q.   Anything about this golf course, softer this week compared to previous years, you can be more aggressive?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   The greens are receptive.   You can short-side yourself.   Years past you couldn't go after certain pins.   The greens were perfect today.   I mean they come down probably a foot faster than they were yesterday.   Rolled fantastic.

Q.   Did they speed up?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   They did.   They rolled significantly faster today than the past two days.   Should be in prime condition to make a lot of putts.

Q.   Do you think this gives you at all a chance or just everybody doing this?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Lot of this.   The wind going to blow and be tough this afternoon, otherwise I don't see it.   Hopefully nobody goes crazy low.   Lot of guys between me and wherever the lead is.   You never know what might happen tomorrow.

Q.   Where is your game?   How would you access your game since you won at Peeble?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Been close.   Little fatigued the last few weeks and hadn't been thinking really well.   My game is close.   Hadn't -- I feel like I've done certain things better than I did at Pebble but I haven't been able to do it.   One week I'll drive it great, next week hit my irons great. 
My wedge play hasn't been very good.   Hit some good wedges today.   Been working on that hard.   Going into Augusta, that's very important.   You're going to have to hit some quality wedges there for four rounds.   I know what I need to work on.   Trying to get back to that.

Q.   How healthy are you?   Are you good?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yes, sir, besides allergies.

Q.   Are you playing the next two weeks?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Two weeks off.

Q.   Kind of planned it that way?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yes.

Q.   Mindset change much about the season after Pebble?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   No, not at all.   Validated what I was doing and didn't -- by no means did I get complacent or think I had a good year.   All the work I've been putting in validated.   Double down and keep doing the same stuff.

Q.   Comment on Arnold Palmer, growing up, something you picked up or over the years.
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah.   It's always nice to sneak up here and see him every year I come here and say hello to him.   Just the amount of humility and grace that he handles, exudes at all times in his life and from the day -- from the moment he gets up until he goes to bed. 
Gives us all something to strive for, look up to and never seen him in a bad mood.   Never seen him do anything but the right thing at all times.   I have to catch myself this week trying to make sure I live up to his example, which is not going to happen.   Trying to do the best at what I can.   He's a great role model and love coming here and seeing him.

Q.   Are you going to play the par 3?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Oh, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT