ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 19, 2015
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I hit the ball really, really well.   Drove the ball well.   Put some new irons in play, the new 715s from Bridgestone.  
They were awesome.   Best I hit my irons all year long.   A great day and missed a few short putts probably what I'm disappointed about.   Missed putts inside 5 feet.   Besides that it was a good day, good start.  
   
 Q.   Lot of talk about the greens.   How did they putt out?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Putted fine.   Hit the puts they're going in.   You can't shoot 5, 4, the amount of guys under par if you're not making the putts.   The putts rolled fine.   I didn't have any putt that did something it shouldn't have done.   So, I think the greens are not a factor.  
   
 Q.   Have you been working on those irons before?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I had.   The first -- I wanted to put them in for Augusta, I wanted to make sure I had tried them before then.   Put them in this week.   Hit my irons really, really good.   Some good long irons.   On 16 a 4-iron about 20 feet and played really solid with them.   Excited for that going into the Masters.  
   
 Q.   Do you change a lot?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   No.  
   
 Q.   You have the old set for years and years?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Same model for four years.   Yeah, two years.  
   
 Q.   When you sat down to do your schedule at the start of the year how did it change post-Peeble?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Changed a little bit, yeah.   Couple different weeks.   Obviously was not Doral, was not planning on playing that week.   I planned on playing next week in San Antonio.   So, little change there.   I need some rest now.   This is my 8th out of 9th events.   I would love to go to San Antonio, actually love the golf course is great, great sponsor but my body needs a rest.  
   
 Q.   Is it unusual that you had have just won and then changed the clubs?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah.   No, they're better.   I'm kind of an old guy, does not like changing anything at all, keep the variables to a minimum.   When they're better you got to put them in.   
They've been better every time I tested them.   I've been stubborn and finally was hitting my irons bad enough after last week, this is the time to do it.   Welcome change.  
   
 Q.   Talk about those bounces off the rocks.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I've never seen that happen before.   Have the ball hit the rocks twice and pop-up to five feet.   Missed -- I got the hard part over with.   I hit a terrible putt, missed it.   See some crazy bounces there before but none like that.   That obviously made the day.   Awesome.   Two shot swing there and kind of kept the momentum going for me on the front-9.  
   
 Q.   Sneds, that was on 18?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   Lot of fun to watch Brandt Snedeker and Billy Horschel and Henrik Stenson.   Was it fun for you to be playing with the great players?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   We had a great time.   We all played well.   It's a good way to start.   I don't believe being in the morning the greens were perfect.   Needed to get off to a good start.   We all three did a great job of that.   Few misses here and there but played pretty well all the way around.  
   
 Q.   What about the clubs?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Put some new Bridgestone irons into play.   I had lots of chances.   Didn't miss many greens.   Hit them higher and longer.   Made some birdies I normally don't make birdie on.   Great.   The change I made this week actually turned out for the first time in awhile.   
   
 Q.   Brandt, you're an artist with the putter so your opinion carries a lot weight.   How are these greens putting right now?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Putting fine.   You hit good putts they're going in.   They're a little slower than we're used to because of all the heat down here.   You have 90-degree weather in March.   You hit a good putt they're going in.   Can't complain about that.   They're going in fine.   The greens are rolling perfectly.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT