AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 15, 2015
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about today.   First of all good playing.   You had so many key moments, especially on that front nine.   Nice saves, that really kept the round together. 
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   It did.   The one that got me going the most was the birdie on number 5.   Par‑3.   Really, really tough hole.   To steal one there. 
Got my momentum going, got the round going after not birdieing 2 and not birdieing the next par‑5.   I knew that par‑3 was huge. 
Then birdieing 7 obviously got the momentum going again.   So I made some great saves today. 
A great save on 9, a great par on 13. 
A good birdie on 11. 
I did some really quality stuff.   And kind of hung on down the stretch and did what I needed to do to get a win.

Q.   11, Nick rolls in a 40‑footer to move within one.   You answered.   I thought that was huge. 
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   It was a big putt.   Nick was looking at 3‑putt there from the back of the green.   Made a great putt and made that one back on top of him to keep the lead where I wanted it, to let him know that I wasn't going anywhere, and I was going to keep doing everything I could to stay in there was huge.

Q.   You set the scoring record.   Only one bogey over four days, an incredible week for you.   And you made the comment that you wanted to be relevant again.   I think you are after this week. 
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   It's no fun‑‑ I haven't had a lot of fun the last year and a half.   I kind of struggled with my game a little bit and didn't be where I want to be, playing the tournaments I want to play in.   I worked my tail off last year and didn't get result that people were accustomed to me getting. 
I knew it was coming.   It was just hard to be patient.   To do that this week, be patient enough to wait for a tournament like this to happen. 
I can't thank the golf courses, the staffs here at the golf courses enough.   The golf courses were the best I've ever seen them.   The weather was perfect.   All the stars lined up for me and I took advantage of it.

Q.   Obviously you're in the Masters.   Some good things on the horizon, but this year winning early.   This could be a huge year for you. 
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, it is.   The FedExCup is always in the back of my mind.   Making it to Atlanta is why we're out here and why we want to have a chance to play for the biggest prize in sports. 
I'm excited to get my name back on the top of that FedExCup leaderboard and realize that I need to keep playing well to stay up there because there's so many great players out here.   But I feel like I'm back to where I need to be to get back to Atlanta. 

Q.   Two wins in the last three years at Pebble, not bad. 
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I might need to buy some real estate here.   I love being here at Pebble. 

Q.   Another bogey‑free round here on Sunday.   Brandt, what was the emotions and the nerves like during this final round?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I was as nervous as I've been in a long time.   It felt good to be‑‑ to feel those nerves again.   Felt good to calm those nerves again. 
But there was so much on the line today.   So much stuff going through my mind that I had to quiet down and keep focusing on the small stuff. 
But I got emotional on 18th green before I hit my putt because I realized how important this win is for me.   Gets me back on track to where I feel like I belong.   All the stuff I've been doing has been validated.

Q.   There was a lot of pressure you put on yourself during this stretch to get back into some result events that you needed to be a part of. 
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I made the right choice.   Butch and I, we were working for eight months and he's been a huge help.   He is a big reason‑‑ he was in my ear all day today, stuff he's told me over the past six months.   Giving me confidence to go out there and hit shots under pressure when I needed it. 
I just went out there and just played golf.   It's fun to do that.   It's fun to play golf again.   It's fun to hit the shots you need to. 

Q.   From those changes, also dealing with some injuries, how much more rewarding is it after nearly two years to leave here with the trophy?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   So much more rewarding.   It's probably the only time I cried walking up 18th green.   My kids are growing up with me here being able to understand what's going on.   My wife's here. 
My home life's not always great because I got to take it out somewhere and she's been a huge part of what I've been doing.   She makes my life so much easier out here.   I would not be where I am without her.   It's really special. 

Q.   You've done it again.   What was the difference in the last time and this time besides the weather?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   This is a completely different tournament.   Last time I played, I was playing a lot different than I played this week. 
To go around these four golf courses with only making one bogey was a testament to how well I fought, how well I was able to execute my game plan.   This one means a lot more than the last one did just because of all the things I've gone through in the last year and a half. 

Q.   What about your particular round today.   What was your highs and was there any moments of trepidation? 
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   There's always moments of trepidation.   I didn't know where I stood.   I didn't look at any leaderboards all day because I don't want to change my game plan. 
I got here doing what I've been doing.   I needed to keep doing the same thing I've been doing. 
So I still felt nervous on the last couple of holes and knew that on 18 at Pebble anything can happen.   So I was just trying to make a par and get out of here.

Q.   How long before you knew ‑‑ when did you know you had a comfortable lead?   You said you didn't know at all. 
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Didn't know at all.   I don't look at leaderboards on Sunday because they dictate way too much of what should happen. 
I had a game plan, I'm going to execute that game plan, and I did a great job of that today.

Q.   One last chamber of commerce comment.   The weather, we have had it a few days before but all week like this?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   It's been fantastic.   I've been to Pebble probably 15 weeks of my life.   This is the best week I've ever seen. 
The golf courses are in the best shape they have ever been, fans were unbelievable.   I never seen this many people come out for the tournament and I can tell you from the players' standpoint everybody had a great time.   It was awesome.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT