AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 14, 2015
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   (No Microphone.)
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Stealing one there on 9.   That's a pretty tough hole here.   I had a great look at it from about 20 feet.   And I told myself to be really aggressive that every birdie right now is really important. 
Kind of scraped it around a little bit today and survived and was able to post a good number when I really didn't have my best stuff, so I hope I can come out tomorrow and put together a good solid round.

Q.   You're going to get a bogey here, you were on such a nice run there and you bumped along as you said, scraping it around, but I think you got that out of the way perhaps. 
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, you're going to have a bad stretch of golf when you're not playing your best.   I was able to survive that today and kind of get up‑and‑down when I needed to, make some key par putts. 
I'm disappointed in the one bogey I had, from the middle of the fairway from a hundred yards, but it's something I'll look back on and probably kick myself a little bit. 
But you're going to have a stretch of holes like I had today and luckily I was able to get myself through it and hit some great quality shots coming down the last four or five holes and give myself some good opportunities. 

Q.   Birdie at the last, Saturday 67 here at Pebble.   What do you take from the day?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Obviously didn't have my best stuff starting out today.   I was able to gut out a good round.   You kind of have to do that. 
Over the course of 72 holes you're going to have a stretch where you were not playing your best.   I was able to survive early in the round, made some key putts there to get the momentum going and birdie on the last hole is huge. 
I don't know why 67 sounds a lot better to me than 68, but scores are low today and every birdie you possibly can is great.   Stealing one on 9 is a big advantage going into tomorrow. 

Q.   What do you take from it, when you don't have your best stuff, but still right in the mix heading into the final round?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I'm excited about it.   You're going to have a stretch of golf where you're not playing your best and hopefully mine is behind me now. 
So I learned a lot about the way the golf course was playing today.   I can be more aggressive tomorrow knowing that the golf course was playing a little differently than I thought it was. 
Obviously, the greens today were getting a little slower, bumpier throughout the course of the day and tomorrow we should have much better greens. 
So I'm excited about it.   I'm in contention again, obviously you get your self in contention, good things happen.   So looking forward to tomorrow and I've been here before, I know what needs to be done, I just need to go out and execute. 

Q.   What was different today?   What did you expect?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   The greens, just the golf course was playing a lot firmer than I thought it was going to play.   The balls were skipping where they're normally not skipping here.   You had to play a little bit more defensive than I thought on a couple holes, where you normally just pipe it and get it going. 
So, get another day like this tomorrow, it will play even more different.   So I thought it would be soft and just throw darts at everything.   And it wasn't that way at all.   All the guys shot really good numbers, but it was a lot different than I was anticipating.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT