AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 13, 2015
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:     We'll jump right in.   Brandt Snedeker, thanks for joining us, 5‑under 67 second round at Spyglass Hill.   Some comments?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, it's good to be in this position again.   It's been awhile.   Obviously playing well and did a good job of kind of avoiding mistakes that can you make at Spyglass and shot a good round over there which is important.   And then two days to follow at Pebble. 
So, it's in great shape and hopefully I can take the game.   I've had the first two days into Pebble and obviously I need to make a few birdies to be relevant over the weekend but I'm in great shape to do that. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions.

Q.   Not to be a dullard, but can you just give us some good details on the birdie you made at Spyglass. 
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yes.

Q.   We were at lunch. 
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, I understand what takes precedence over my round of golf. 
I made ‑‑ hit a wedge on the first hole par‑5 to about 10 feet.   Made the putt. 
Second hole I hit a pitching wedge to about four feet and made the putt for birdie. 
I birdied No. 6 up the hill, hit a 6‑iron to about 15 feet below the hole and made it. 
7, I hit a wedge to about three feet and made it. 
And then on the back nine, I birdied number 11 ‑‑ or 12.   I hit an 8‑iron to about 20 feet and made that putt.   Those are my five birdies.

Q.   Did you do anything wrong today?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I didn't birdie three of the par‑5s over there.   So that's‑‑

Q.   Those are the harder par‑5s to birdie aren't they?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah but I had 4‑iron into 11 and made a bad par there.   And had a couple looks on the other par‑5s and just didn't go in. 
So it's unfortunate.   Obviously you look back on that and that could have been better, but bogey‑free over there.   I'll take every time I play it.   So I can't really complain so far.

Q.   Historically has any of the courses given you fits more than the others?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   It's funny, I'm either hit or miss here.   Either play great and have a great week or I miss the cut.   So the years I missed the cut it's ‑‑ all of them give me fits.   The years I'm playing good it seems like obviously, it comes down to how you play Pebble for me the last two days. 
Pebble's obviously ‑‑ when the weather's good you need to be able to get after it and shoot a low round.   And the way the scores are right now and the weather forecast over the weekend, it's going to take, if I was a guessing man, it's going to take somewhere around 20‑under par to win this golf tournament. 
So I've got to look at 7 to 10‑under par the next couple days to win.   So it's definitely ‑‑ can't take the foot off the gas pedal. 

Q.   So Spyglass is typically one of the tougher courses out here.   Tell me about the importance of playing well out there?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, it's obviously very important.   I think it's hard to win here, I saw somebody say this yesterday.   Nobody's won here since Tiger did shooting over par over there.   So you need to go over there and play, shoot a good round and anything in the 60s is a great round.   Especially with the conditions the way I had today.   I mean it's no wind whatsoever. 
I was ‑‑ I think I was the third or fourth group off on first tee and had perfect greens for nine holes and no wind.   So you need to take advantage of that because it doesn't happen very often over there.   I did a good job of that and so it's a relief to get by Spyglass and now I don't have that hanging over me and I got two days at Pebble.

Q.   You started the year not eligible for some of the things you probably have become accustomed to.   How much did that weigh on you going into the year?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   It's tough.   I've gotten used to a certain schedule and I'm not in any of those tournaments I'm used to this year.   So it's no fun not being eligible for the Masters and not playing World Golf Championships and stuff like that.
So huge motivating factor, not that I need anymore to be motivated for, but I definitely want to make sure that I qualify for the Masters and Match Play and WGC's and all that kind of stuff.   And to do that I need to play good.   So it's nobody to blame but myself.   I need to get out there and get it done. 

Q.   Seems interesting.   I'm trying to think, Ogilvy might have been in your spot two or three years ago, where he fairly missed 50 at the end of the year and there's this feeling, I got three months to take care of it except that by the time you get going again, you're close to like‑‑
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   60, yeah.

Q.   60.   And there's almost, I can do this.   You seem to be coming in taking nothing for granted that ‑‑
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   No, you certainly‑‑

Q.   Your glutes are in gear. 
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   You realize how tough it is to move up in the World Golf Rankings without winning and being competitive.   When you've done what I've done, which is fall out of the top 50 like I have done over the last year. 
I haven't been competitive in a while.   So I just need to get myself back in contention more, give myself some chances to win, and all that stuff will take care of itself.   I've been doing the right stuff and I've been telling people this for awhile.   Until you do it, nobody really believes you.   But it's been coming for awhile and now it's nice. 
Hopefully I can keep it going.   And typically on any streaks I just run them out awhile and that's my plan.   Just play until I can't play anymore.

Q.   Baby steps so far; would you say?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, yeah.   It's ‑‑ I'm not going to get to the Top‑50 in the world and all that kind of stuff in one week.   I need to make sure I put some good strong golf together and winning takes care of all that.   So, that's kind of what I look forward to doing. 

Q.   You said you've been doing the right stuff.   Can you describe what that means?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, I've been working on the parts of my game that have been poor in the past year.   For me, everything revolves around my short game and putting.   I'm putting well and that bleeds into every part of my game.   I worked really hard on that, because the end of last year I was playing great and putting terrible and not getting the results I felt like I deserved. 
So putting great again, which is nice.   Feel like I'm putting the way I'm supposed to. 
And my long game is back where it's been for the last six months. 
So, if I can get out of my own way and have some fun and get back to playing golf and not thinking about golf and where to leave shots and how to play the golf course the right way, I should be successful. 

Q.   What putter are you using, same one?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Same one.

Q.   Did you ever consider benching it last year?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I did for the second half of the year.   Last year, I benched it for a while and put it back in play at the HSBC and played great with it and been in the bag ever since.

Q.   Did you guys have a talk or anything?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Sometimes you got to use some harsh words with the putter if it's not paying attention and bench them ‑‑ leave them in a hot trunk for awhile and let them know that they can be replaced.   And luckily she understood and got back into working form. 

Q.   It's a she?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, yeah, she's done pretty well over the last nine years, so I can't quite ‑‑ I feel like it's a marriage at this point. 

Q.   Can you talk a little bit about the work you've been doing with Mark?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, Mark's just, he's a team member of mine, he does all my stats for me, so kind of gives me an idea of what part of my game needs to be worked on, what part of my game is doing well, how to focus on my practice and come up with a game plan for courses we play. 
So, as a general rule, most Tour players think that they know what they do well and don't do well.   That might not be the case in a lot of the areas.   I'm no different.   I think I might be playing great in certain areas and he proves me otherwise that I'm not. 
So it's great to have him kind of help me try to counteract stuff that's going wrong and try to get me on the right path of making sure that when I practice, I'm practicing the right stuff and getting myself back where I can be competitive again out here on Sundays and kind of give myself chances to win. 
THE MODERATOR:   We appreciate your time and best of luck on the weekend.
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Thanks.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT