WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 6, 2014
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  BRANDT SNEDEKER:   It's really special, they have done a great job, real premiere event and attracts the best players in the world and fun to be here.   It was tough today, wind was blowing and played hard and the golf course is a lot different this year than it was last year and playing difficult and that's a good start.   
Played solid golf, made some key putts and had a lot of fun out there kind of getting through the tough day, and hopefully things are a little easier from here but today it was playing pretty tough.  
I had high expectations of playing well so I was looking forward to getting out here and compete a little bit because I had not been putting scores together that I thought I was capable of doing.   Came out here and shoot a good opening round, 3‑under par, let's me feel like I'm in the right track and doing some good stuff so should be a lot of fun the rest of the week.   
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts on 3‑under to start?   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Excited about it.   Obviously today it was playing pretty tough, the wind is blowing and the way the rough is up this year.   
   
 Q.   Harder work than perhaps other years?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Definitely is.   Rough is very, very thick and hard to hit fairways here.   If you can hit fairways, you can shoot a good score but if you don't, you're going to struggle.   With the wind blowing the way it was today, tough to keep the ball in the short grass off the tee.   
So was able to do that relatively well and that's why I shot a good one so hopefully I can keep doing that.  
   
 Q.   Meeting your expectations?   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I am.   I'm playing well.   Expected to come out here and play a good round today and expect to keep doing that.   I'm playing good golf and doing a lot of stuff really well so excited about the next few days and getting in the heat of the battle again and playing against some good, strong competition like we've here this week.  
   
 Q.   Health fine?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, it's good.   It's funny, I answer that question way too much.   Everything feels good.   Haven't had any issues for a while.   A few things here and there but nothing major so nice to feel good at a tournament.  
   
 Q.   Sorry to ask it, but we miss you, because we haven't seen you at the top for a little while.   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   It's been a tough year.   Have not played up to my expectations or what I'm capable of.   Feel like a few changes and they have taken hold.   I know I'm on the cusp of some really, really good stuff so hopefully this is the beginning of it.  
   
 Q.   I'm told you're working with Mark Horton?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I have been for quite some times.   We're close friends and he's helped me a lot.   Started working with Butch Harmon at Colonial.  
   
 Q.   Everybody thinks this is an individual game but you lean on so many people.   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   You have to have a great team around you and I have a great wife at home that supports me 100 percent in anything I do.   That makes things easier out here, having the best at what they do helping you on the full swing and mental side of things and having a great caddie makes a huge difference.   Might be a couple shots a tournament, that's a big deal out here so we are trying to shave shots anyway we can.   Anyway that can help you, you're always looking for some kind of benefit to your game.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT