RBC CANADIAN OPEN
June 8, 2019
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So hard to follow up a great round of golf, but also harder with the wind, wasn't it?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, tough day.  Greens were bouncing sure.  You had to be really precise on your playing numbers.  I played some good shots.  I was a little loose today.  I didn't drive it as well as I need to around here and be able to survive a little bit.
Missed a couple short putts coming in, which is frustrating, because finally hit some quality shots coming down the stretch.  Wasn't able to take advantage of them, but of course 72 holes that stuff is going to happen.  Have to flush it from your mind, realize I'm in good shape going into tomorrow, and hopefully I can kind of get back to the way I was playing a little bit yesterday more than I was today.
Q. You're right there, and when you look at the leaderboard there a lot of experience and winners there on the PGA TOUR.  What do you think it's going to take tomorrow to beat your fellow competitors?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: It's going to be playing a smart round.  This is golf course is very penal if you get out of position.  Making sure that when you do have a chance you be aggressive and make some birdies, and when you don't, don't do anything stupid that's going to cost you some big numbers.
I did a really good job of that today.  Only had one three-putt on 16 which I shouldn't have had, but besides that did a really good job putting the ball where I should.  Short game out when I had to.  Going to be more of that same tomorrow.
Q. How would you characterize your third round?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: It's always hard to follow up a low round like I did yesterday.  Today was a tough day.  Wind was blowing, hard to put the ball in the fairway, and then the greens are firm and bouncing so really hard to get them close.
I did a good job kind of hanging in there.  Didn't drive it particularly great.  Hit some good shots down the stretch.  Should have made a couple birdies coming down the stretch would've put me in a way better position going into tomorrow.
There are 72 holes.  You're going to have a few missed putts out there.  Try to kind of survive a bad day like today, and hopefully go out there tomorrow and put something good together.
Q. How do you marry the two extremes you've had Friday and then today going into the final round?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: It's called golf.  That's why I love it and hate it so much.  You never know what you're going to get, no matter how confident you feel, no matter how awesome.
I had a great warmup session this morning and really felt like I could shoot something low and it didn't come in that way.  I know it's in there.  I know I've got it there.  More importantly, I'm relaxed and trusting what I got right now.  Tomorrow should be a lot fun.
Q. What did you think needs to happen?
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Put the ball in the fairway plain and simple.  Do that around here and you'll have some great opportunities.  Didn't do a great job of that in the middle of the round where I kind of survived.  Do that better tomorrow and I'll have a really good chance to win the golf tournament.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT