SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 16, 2014
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Brandt, 67 to get things going.   You know it's going to take scoring here, but you got off to a good start.   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I did.   I didn't hit it great today, made some putts, rolled it a lot better, which a key that's been missing for me is I haven't been rolling the ball real well, so I did a great job of doing that today.   Ball‑striking is close, just need to work on it a little bit this afternoon, and should be good to go.  
   
 Q.   You got to 4‑under but only one putt outside of 10 feet, so that gives you a little something, a little hope to hit it either closer or make some more putts?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, it's good to make those putts inside 10 feet.   The ones outside 10 feet will come.   Inside 10 feet, I've been struggling with those five, six, seven‑footers, which you need obviously to make to shoot a good number.   Hit the ball okay, just need to get that a little tighter so I can have a few more opportunities, and should be good for the weekend.  
   
 Q.   With this start of a new season, what does the fall mean for you in 2014‑15?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   It's extremely important.   You want to get off to the right foot.   You saw a bunch of guys last year get off to a great start, and it kind of propelled them to a good year.   That's what my plan is.   I'm playing the next three weeks, so looking forward to getting off to a good start and getting myself in the mix early and kind of staying there the rest of the year.  
   
 Q.   This is the first time we've had a chance to chat with you since you went viral.   Walk us through the shot.   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I was with some buddies down quail hunting a little bit, and I got challenged thinking that I couldn't hit a 4‑iron and hit a skeet.   Of course the professional in me thought, I can do it.   It took us about 30 minutes to do.   We tried a different stand first and couldn't quite hit it, and went to this other one that was a little bit easier off that lie and increased my odds a little bit, and about the 20th ball I clipped one, and luckily I got it on video.   So messing around a little bit, actually had a little fun with it, and of course people give me crap now because I miss a green with a wedge now, you can hit a moving skeet with a 4‑iron but you can't hit a green with a wedge.   I kind of teed myself up for that, but it was a lot of fun just messing around with the guys at home.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT