WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2014
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Big number and that's sort of what happened.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Obviously birdies were out there to be made.   I had my chance on the front-9.   Fortunately didn't make any putts today.   Kind of a lackluster day for me.   Hit it pretty good, gave myself a bunch of chances and didn't keep up with it.   Very disappointing but in good forms and excited about playing the next couple of weeks.  
   
 Q.   On the front side there is that sort of just -- that's when you really had to get it?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   No.   I still had plenty of opportunities on the back-9.   There was still plenty of stuff left to do and missed a few putts on 8, I'm trying to think on 2, 4, 8.   Close opportunities there and didn't make them.   I needed to do that to get some momentum going for the back.   Didn't do it.   Very frustrating because I played really well.  
   
 Q.   How important has Butch Harmon been on your influence?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   He's helped a lot.   It's leaps and bounds in the time.   I'm a lot more confident than I was.   I have a great idea of what I need to do.   I feel like my game is good enough to go against anybody in the world as long as I'm putting good.  
   
 Q.   Did you see him the week before the U.S. Open for the first time?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   What basically have you changed?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Very minor stuff, nothing major.   We hadn't been overhauling anything.   Just trying to get the way I work the golf ball a little differently than I was before, trying to get more through it, trying to let the club release a little differently than I used to releasing leasing.   Hitting the ball lower and further.  
   
 Q.   Sounds like it's made a good difference.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   You know it's unbelievable the track record with the guys helping them get better.   He's great mentally, too.   He's seen all, been through it all.   Knows it all.   A good help.  
   
 Q.   How many times have you seen him?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I've lost count.   Quite a few, between Majors and going to Vegas and stuff like that.  
   
 Q.   Brandt, you didn't get the win but what does this do for Ryder Cup possibilities?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I don't know.   You'll have ask the Captain on that one.   Didn't do what I expected to do today.   I'm not happy with the way I played.   I'm obviously playing better, playing in good form but you need to put yourself in a contention and win to impress the Captain.   I didn't do that today.   I need to go do that the next two weeks.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT