WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2014
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Contention going into Sunday.   I have a chance tomorrow.   Played some really good golf.   I'm excited what tomorrow will hold.

Q.   On the outside looking in for the Ryder Cup, have you spoken to Captain Watson what it's going to take for you to secure one of those Captain's picks in September?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   He's told me from day one it's very simple.   You got to play good golf.   That could require anything.   You see guys play with the lead and making sure they can handle the pressure. 
The Ryder Cup pressure is way more than what we feel out here.   Tomorrow is a great audition for me.   I need to shoot a good low number.

Q.   Best of luck to you tomorrow.   Appreciate your time.
AThank you.

Q.   It's good playing once again today.   How does it feel?   Looks to me like you're a little bit more deliberate on the golf course trying to be a little bit more decisive?
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   This golf course is firm and fast and you need to make birdies out here.   You have to be really precise.   Take a little bit more time, making sure I want to leave the ball in the right spots, don't short side myself. 
Do what I did on 11 -- made par when I should have made bogey.   Little disappointed the way I finished.   I'm going out there and put some pressure on somebody.

Q.   Looked to me one of the things you can tell when a guy is playing really well when he does miss a few greens in a row, you missed four in a row, got them all up and down.
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Left them in the right spot except for 11 and gave myself some chances and easy up and downs.   Kind of kept the momentum going.   Made the key five footers you need to make.   Didn't play the back-9 as well as I should have but going to have a stretch like that.   I got through it today relatively unscathed.   Hope to play 18 good ones tomorrow.

Q.   Obviously going to be a very crowded leaderboard.
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   You never like being 2 back with ten other guys.   You know what you're going to have to do.   You have to go out there and shoot good tomorrow.   The great mentality, go out there and be aggressive and don't hold back.   Give it everything you got.   Try to make a lot of birdies.

Q.   Will be fun.
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Will be.   Can't wait.

Q.   Other than 18, really a solid day.   You got to be pleased with it the.
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah.   I got off to a great start on the front-9.   Played a great first 9 holes.   Back-9 was a little scrappy.   Kept the round going.   18 was a little disappointed in the way I played it because I was playing really, really well.   Made a bogey but know what I need to do tomorrow.   Low round tomorrow, lot of birdies.   Lot of guys on that leaderboard trying to make a move at it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT