WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2014
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   65 by Brandt Snedeker.   It's interesting, you barely hit more than half of the fairways you still posted that number.   What were you able to do to recover after missing the fairways?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I hit five first cuts today.   I actually drove it really well today.   I hit it really well.   I made a whole lot of putts.   65, great round.   Excited about it.   Hopefully when I get down the putting going over the weekend it should be a lot of fun.  
   
 Q.   You talked about that.   When you have a good putting round like this, does that kind of excise some of those demons?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I've been playing really, really good.   I'm a lot more patient on the golf course.   I know the putts are going to go in.   Keep plugging away and give myself a chance.   Did a great job of that today.   Got off to a quick start, birdied the first two holes.   Hit a lull in the middle, didn't do a whole lot in the 7, 8 holes.   Hit a bunch of great shots.   I have to stay patient.  
   
 Q.   How different, maybe better player are you after working with Butch Harmon?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Confident for about a year and a half I played great golf and knew what I was doing.   I got a little lost for a little while.   Butch helped me with confidence.   I go up there and knock it in.   It's great.  
   
 Q.   Great playing today but I wanted to take you back to 14 yesterday something good had to happen.   Two over-par on the round.   What happened from off the green?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I couldn't make a 30-footer when I was off the green, 50 feet over the ridge.   Made a turn of events.   I birdied the next hole and made a couple birdies coming in.   I played great today.  
   
 Q.   I thought that the finish yesterday was huge.   Were you able to carry that momentum today?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I played great today.   I birdied the first two holes.   I played great.   I didn't really make a whole lot but I hit some good shots.  
   
 Q.   We're hoping to dodge some thunderstorms this afternoon.   What does that mean if we do for the golf course this week?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   It's going to be great.   The ball is going to start to run out in the fairways.   Greens are starting to bounce a little bit.   Makes you think a lot more off the tee and into the green.  
   
 Q.   It's been fun to watch so far.   Good luck tomorrow.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Should be good.  
   
 Q.   Good showing today.   Got yourself in position to really win this weekend, right?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I had a great day.   Kind of let off a couple birdies.   Couple off the start today.   Played really well.   Give me some opportunities.   We've got a lot of golf left to play.   Hopefully I'm playing well.  
   
 Q.   Is there anything, any difference with the course at all compared to yesterday?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   The course was getable this morning.   It was really soft.   The greens were perfect, absolutely pristine.   You make some putts.   As the round got on, the greens got firmer and tougher.   Be more of the same this afternoon.  
   
 Q.   What is it about this course, you seem to always play well here at Sedgefield?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   My first Tour win was here at Forest Oaks down the road.   Played well here numerous years.   Just love being here this time of year.   Seems like the course always sets up really well for me and I grew up on this type of grass, grew up in the South.   I love coming to a place like this.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT