U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 13, 2014
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Talk about your day.BRANDT SNEDEKER: Good day.  Made one mistake early in the round.  Besides that, I hit a lot of quality golf shots and made a couple good saves late to salvage the round. But all in all I hit the ball really, really well, gave myself a lot of chances, and converted on a few of them.  Need to clean up those couple mistakes I'm making for the weekend and you never know what will happen.  So it should be a lot of fun.
Q. Seeing Martin at 10, talk about that.BRANDT SNEDEKER: He's obviously playing great.  You can see it's doable, it's obviously pretty unbelievable golf at this point.  But this golf course is very, very difficult, very, very tricky, and no lead is safe in the U.S. Open.  He's a great player and he's got 36 holes to go, but there's still a lot of golf to be played.  I would obviously like to be in his position versus mine, but I have to go out there and make the best of my situation over the weekend.
Q. Would you say, given your background and the way you've been able to come back and win several times in your career, that you've got the right mentality for what you're facing?BRANDT SNEDEKER: U.S. Opens are a different mentality, you can't get too caught up with where Martin is, because the golf course is first and foremost.  The golf course dictates what you can and cannot do throughout the course of the day. So this golf course baits you into being aggressive and you pay a penalty for it.  So you got to plod around, bide your time, hopefully pick off three or four birdies in a round of golf, four or five birdies if you can, and see where that puts you at the end of the day.
Q. Certainly you're kiss discouraged by seeing the deficit.BRANDT SNEDEKER: No, not at all.  I'll excited about it.  Sunday, back nine, we'll find out where everything lays.
Q. Considering Lytham, a couple Masters, you've been here before.  Why would it be any different this time?  What do you think you have that you didn't before right now?BRANDT SNEDEKER: Experience, I guess.  That's the only thing different.  I feel like I'm hitting the ball great, feel like I'm doing everything really well, and excited about this weekend and I can draw on those experiences from the past. I know the pressure's going to be there, I know it's going to be tough, and I know this golf course is not going to be the same as it was the last two days.  Even if we get rain, I got a feeling it's still going to be firmer tomorrow, the pins are going to be tougher than they have been, it's going to be a tough test and that's what you want.  So it's going to be a lot of fun.
Q. The season didn't start off the way you wanted to probably.  What do you think was missing?BRANDT SNEDEKER: A little bit of everything.  Haven't been hitting the ball as well as I would like to be, haven't been thinking as well as I would like to be, and short game hasn't been as good as it should be.  So it's a combination of everything.  I worked hard on all of it and I feel great.  Good thing about me is it doesn't take much to get me to feel confident.  If I see a few shots going in the right direction or see a few putts going in, I'm good to go.  Luckily, the first two days I've seen that.  So I feel like I'm ready to go, I'm excited about the next two rounds and my confidence is not going to be a problem over the weekend.
 
 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT