RBC CANADIAN OPEN
June 7, 2019
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Brandt Snedeker, who just whipped it around in 60.  I was with you at the Wyndham when you shot 59.  9-under through 15 today.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, to be honest with you, I didn't think about it until I got on 17 tee.  Oh, gosh, I got a chance.  Wasn't really paying attention today.  I was hitting the ball so well off the tee and making so many putts.  Just trying to put the ball in the green.  I knew if I did that I had a good chance.  One of those rounds where everything comes together.   
I knew I played well yesterday and didn't make any putts.  Had fresh greens this morning.  Knew I was rolling them pretty well.  Today was a lot fun.  The hole looked like a beach ball to me.  Look huge all day.   
 Q.  You putt so beautiful on poana greens.  What's the key?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I don't know.  I wish I did.  I think I just had success early in my career.  Always loved them since then.  You have to accept there will be some variances in every putt.  I think it's the way I read putts.  Every putt is on a general line, not a finite line.  If I can putt to the right edge, somewhere, I've got a chance of going in.  You can accept the ones that don't go in.  I think it serves you well on these kind of greens.   
 Q.  You been changing coach recently.  Gone back to Todd Anderson.  How is it going?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, pretty good obviously.  Feels like he knows me so well.  He knows all my mannerisms, knows when to say something and when not to saying something.  Had a great session with him last week before I came up here.   
Really felt good about having something small to think about this week.  Hardest thing out here for me si trying to work on things and play golf while you're working.  On little thing to worry about and so far so good.   
 Q.  How did you go so low turning in a 60?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I drove the ball fantastic.  I think I missed two fairways today.  When you do that around here you set yourself you for success.  Made a couple putts early to kind of get the momentum going.  Gave myself a lot of the opportunities.  Really did a good job of staying patient and put ball in play and played to my strengths.   
It's tough when you're playing with Brooks and JT who are hitting it 30 yards by me.  Good job staying in my lane today and doing the job and making some putts.  Playing smart golf.  Make a lot putts like I do and you get hot like this it's a lot fun.  Hopefully I can keep it going over the weekend.   
 Q.  You shot a 59 before.  You start going on a tear on the back nine; 9-under through 15.  At what point do you start thinking about the number again?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I thought about it on 17 for the first time.  I was kind of still in the zone.  Still going through it.  Didn't think about it until I got to 17 tee.  Had a great up and down on 16 and realized, oh, gosh I got a chance the last two.  I messed up the 16th hole from the middle of the fairway.   
Had a long look for birdie on 17; gave it a run and went about eight feet by.  After that I just said, Hey, come on.  Let's back to what we do and be smart about it.  Played really well.  Had a great time playing with Brooks and JT.  It had a lot of fun today.  Kind of fed off each other throughout the course of the day.   
 Q.  Golf is fun when you shoot 60.  I know you wanted to join Jim Furyk as the second guy to have two sub-60 rounds.  Consolation prize.  Dating back to 1983, you're only guy on the PGA TOUR who has that.  What's it about your game where you have these days where you can take it so low?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I think it's my putting.  When I get hot I feel like the holes are a beach ball to me.  Today I felt like that.  If I can hit the fairways and give myself looks I can make it from there.   
I'm not scared about going low.  I realize these days don't happen very often.  Almost get more excited when I feel like it's going that way.  You don't get these days very often on tour.  More often than not you're getting beat up.  You have to take advantage of it.   
 Q.  Your putter was unbelievable today.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: It's been coming.  Been rolling it really well for the last month.  Seems like one day off, one day on.  Hadn't had a day like every putt came off the right way.  Made a great putt on the 1st hole from about five feet.  Didn't seem like a big putt, but breaking about two cups, and when you hit one of those online, going to be a good tone setter for the day.   
Just did a great job driving the ball in the fairway.  If you do that, a lot of wedges in your hand, a lot of short irons.  You can be aggressive.  The way I was rolling it told myself to hit the green anywhere and we got a chances.   
 Q.  Talk to me about the save on 7.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah.   
 Q.  Maybe double crossed yourself there; put it in a tough spot.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Shanked it.  You can say shanked it.   
 Q.  I don't like saying that word.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: No, I was kind of in between clubs and kind of got in there and didn't feel comfortable.  Came out of it and kind of hit a rocket out to the right.  You know, it's going to happen unfortunately.   
Did a great job just telling myself, Get this on the green somewhere and give yourself a chance to putt.  Uphill putt, and did a good job.  (Indiscernible) 10 or 12 feet and got fortunate.  Brooks was right outside me.  So he showed me the line, and the way I was rolling it I had a pretty good feeling I was going to make it.   
 Q.  Everybody in the gallery following along, they're thinking of the number.  You just recently shot the number last August.  Were you thinking about the number?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: I wasn't until 17 tee.  Got on 17 tee and it kind of hit me.  Oh, gosh.  This is a par 70; I hadn't really been thinking about it.   
So I tried to give that run on 17 a good look and just didn't hit it close.  Had a legitimate look.  Then on the last hole I was trying to hole it.  You never know what might happen.  Get up there close and hit one three feet and make a birdie.   
Make as many feet of putts as I did today you really can't complain.   
 Q.  Right.  How similar were the feelings today to ten months ago when you shot 59?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: You know, kind of different.  When I did it at Wyndham I wasn't feeling very good about my game at all; today I was feeling good.  Felt really good yesterday the way I played.  Making putts yesterday, I knew I could get something going early, make a putt early, I was rolling it really good on the putting green so I felt like I was there.   
You get one those days every once in a while, and so I did the best I could taking advantage of it.  I tried to make sure I made every putt today, and I don't know how many feet of putts I made, but it was really fun to see that ball go in the way it did.   
 Q.  Greens are running slow out there.  Does that help you?  Do you like to hit it hard?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Didn't help me yesterday.  I think I left every putt a foot short yesterday.  I was excited for this morning because I got out here and I knew they would be a little faster and I could still be aggressive, which I felt like needed to be.   
And so yesterday I probably would've shot 4, 5, 6-under par if I had been putting somewhat normal.  Today I kind of exceeded what I normally putt.  Kind of all evens out in the wash.   
 Q.  Were you as comfortable as you looked over the last three holes shooting the breeze with the guys?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Just felt really good.  Made a small adjustment in my setup this week and it kind of clicked and felt great on the range.  I think I missed one fairway with my driver, and you do that around here you're going to set yourself up for success.  There are a lot of short irons and wedges in your hands, and the way I'm rolling it, I just can't feeling myself, Give yourself some chances here and we're going to have a good day.   
Just kept feeding on it, feeding on it, didn't really think about it too much until -- 17 is the first time kind of popped in my head.  Like, Oh, if I finish birdie, birdie I can shoot 59 again.   
Of course I proceeded to run my putt ten feet by, so kind of got back into my train of though and was able to make that putt and birdie the last hole and shoot 60.   
 Q.  You played that chip on 7 so quickly.  Is that because you're feeling so good or just because...  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Not really a lot of options there.  Hit a bad shot like I did, you're just trying to get on the green from there and survive.  Did a good job of that.   
 Q.  How do you feel now going into the weakened?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, I couldn't feel too much better about it.  More importantly, sometimes you get in these positions and you don't feel good about your game.  Just kind of masking it.   
I feel good about my game, about the way I'm driving, it, hitting it; obviously great the way I'm putting it right now.  This golf course sets up perfectly for me.  It's not a bomber's golf course but use your imagination.  Got to put the ball in the fairway and give yourself plenty of opportunities.  Sounds boring, but that's the way this golf course is meant to be played.   
That's why I love it.  I love old-school golf courses.   
 Q.  Is there a different mindset or approach given that you're a past champion and obviously an ambassador?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: No.  I hold this tournament up a little bit more just because of what it means to me being a past champion.  I feel like over the course of my career when I win a tournament I seem to go back and win it again.  I play tournaments I like.  I like the golf courses.  I've only won RBC once, so be kind of a fitting way to top this one off.   
The people up here are just so nice and I feel like I'm part Canadian.  They treat me like one, so always cool to get out there and see all the fans and have a great time up here.   
 Q.  How would you assess your season overall?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Yeah, you know, it's been kind of mediocre, I think.  Played good in spots and bad in spots.  Haven't been able to take the next step of putting four rounds together.  Playing three good rounds and one terrible round or one terrible nine holes and it's killing me and making me finish 25th or 20th instead of top 10.   
Whole goal the rest of the year is see if I can put four solid rounds together.  Hopefully do that next two rounds.   
 Q.  Be watching the afternoon wave at all?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER: Probably not, no.  This golf course is kind of set -- I realize if I'm going to win this golf tournament I'm going to have to make a lot more birdies.  It's not a golf course where you can play steady golf and be fine.  You have to go out and shoot some rounds under par and make some birdies.  I know I got a lot of golf ahead of me.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT