MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2014
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 Q.   Well played today.   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Thank you.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the good stuff.   How bad was ‑‑ how tough was Amen Corner and how tough is it going to be the rest of the week?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Should be very, very tough.   The greens are as firm and fast as I've seen for a Thursday.   It's only going to get faster and firmer through out the course of the week.   
The wind changed 15 times today.   So I watched Jamie hit before me, he hit a pretty 8‑iron into 12 and I hit one almost into Augusta Country Club, 30 yards over the green.   So I got no clue.   
It's just playing tough.   This golf course is right on the edge, it's in perfect shape, and they got it exactly how they want it.   The pin positions today were brutal.   This was not one getable pin really out there where you felt like you can make a birdie and get it going.   You had to hit some quality golf shots to make birdies.  
   
 Q.   What happened on 4?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   4 was a big block and I left it hanging out over there and couldn't get up‑and‑down.   I thought it might have gone in the stuff, it didn't.   
   
 Q.   What are you most happy with right now with your game?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Short game's phenomenal.   I'm really rolling the ball fantastic.   I feel like if I can get my driver in play, we'll be good.   I hit everything right here today, which was doable.   If you missed it right here today, you're doable.   Start missing it left, you got a problem.   
So luckily to me, for me today I was missing it all to the right.   So I was able to salvage a good round out of it.   
   
 Q.   It's kind of a resilience test, too?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, I had a ball move on me on 13.   That was just one of those things that happens once in a blue moon and obviously did a great job getting that one up‑and‑down and not lose a shot there.   So I had some stuff happen today that probably wouldn't happen on normal days, but that's how it is.  
   
 Q.   What happened on 13?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   The ball was just kind of, it was on a spot about, on a spot on a hill on the side of the bunker and in the rough.   I took a practice swing and the ball‑‑ took two practice swings and the ball just kind of nestled over.   It was right on the edge.   I mean, it was kind of‑‑ it looked like‑‑ I couldn't believe it stayed where it did.   Then it rolled an inch or something like that and I had to replace it and take a shot penalty.   
   
 Q.   Did you try to use the rule about the wind?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   No, because on 13 green there is no wind.   
(Laughter.)   I saw it move.   The only thing that could have moved it was me, so I knew it was me.   
   
 Q.   What happened on 18?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   18 I pushed a drive way right and then chipped it out and had a long, hard 2‑putt.   
   
 Q.   Is it nice seeing yourself on the top or close to the top of the board?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   It's good to be back.   This place really has a lot of ‑‑ I have a lot of good memories here, I have a lot of good friends here, I love the golf course, and it comes through in my play.   
I have a lot of fun here.   I like the challenge of this place and how much pressure it puts on you on every shot.   The challenge that every short shot presents here.   So it's a lot of fun and it should be a lot of fun for the next couple days.   
   
 Q.   How much has your putting turned around in the last say six weeks?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I'm a hundred percent different.   Today I was able to be aggressive with some putts that you can be aggressive on around here.   I was able to hit some putts firm and know I was risking a 3‑putt, but I was able to do that.   I made some key putts.   
I made a great par putt on 10.   A 10‑footer down the hill there that you're not just trying to 2‑putt.   
I hit a great putt on 15 and that was probably about it ran about six or eight feet by if it misses and it went in.   So I really saved some shots there.  
   
 Q.   What was your preparation like?   I know you played late on Tuesday.   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Well, it was great.   I tried to play late on Tuesday, let the course dry out a little bit.   I played nine early yesterday.   And I felt like the golf course was great.   You can't really tell, the fairways are still a little soft, but the greens are firm and fast.   
   
 Q.   Did you see the ball move on 13 or not?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, I did.  
   
 Q.   And where again was the ball?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   It was in between the two bunkers.   There was like a rough cut right there.   It was right on that rough cut.   
   
 Q.   Sort of on the down slope?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   It was on the down slope, ball was probably about two feet below my feet.   So I mean it was just almost on the side of it felt like of a mountain.  
   
 Q.   Good bogey then, like you said?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Par.   I made a par.   Give me some credit, man.   
   
 Q.   What do you work on now?   A couple of drives?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, I'll go hit the driver a little bit and make sure that I got that dialed in.   It's not far away.   I was just a little late on everything today.   So one little tweak and it will be ready to go.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT