ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 20, 2014
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Course was playing awfully soft?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   It was.   The greens were soft.   You can be aggressive.   The greens are pretty fast.   I hit it really good.   Didn't stress myself and made some huge putts.  
   
 Q.   Nice to make one like that on 9, too?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I kind of hit that first tee shot, those are always great.   Makes up for a few short ones.  
   
 Q.   I know you're not one to give other guys the needle out there, I'm sure you haven't got any flack from the players in the locker room?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Of course not.   I had a few guys whisper stuff in my ears.   But they haven't really started giving it back to me today.   
   
 Q.   I know that money doesn't mean that much to you, did you fill out a billion dollar bracket?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I did not.   I knew I had no chance of winning.   I know so little about basketball right now I couldn't bring myself to fill out a bracket.  
   
 Q.   Seemed like you rolled in a few putts today and you kind of kept the round going?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I hit the ball really good.   I had good looks on the front nine.   I missed a few short ones on the back nine.   I started making putts.   It was rolling good again.   I hit all the par‑3s, which is hard to do.   So hopefully I can keep that golf the rest of the week.  
   
 Q.   How would you characterize the first two months of your season?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Not very good.   It's been a struggle, to say the least.   I'm a pretty quick starter out here on Tour.   The first time in my career I haven't played well to this point.   
So it's been tough to stomach.   I'm working hard at it.   I should be able to put it together and I'm getting in my way a little too much.   I feel like I can do a lot of good stuff and look forward to the rest of the week.  
   
 Q.   Reaction to Adam, now 10‑under with a couple of holes left?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Can we ban that putter the rest of this week?   (Laughter)   He's playing unbelievable.   He's one of the best players in the world right now.   I don't think 10‑under is doable for me.   Pretty fun to watch.  
   
 Q.   Someone told me you were battling an illness earlier and lost a bit of weight?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I kind of like the way I plateaued out.   I've just cleaned up my diet a little bit, trying to get the inflammation down.   Battling that a few years.   And had bad sinuses it feels like for two months.   Tampa did not help.   So I think everybody feels my pain this time of year.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT