WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
January 31, 2014
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   7‑under today.   That is six strokes better than yesterday.   What was the big difference for you?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   My putting, plain and simple.   You know, I hit the ball extra good yesterday and had some of the worst putting I had all year.   
Today I kind of did the opposite.   I didn't hit it very good, but I putted fantastic and saved a lot of shots, so it was nice.   Nice momentum builder for the weekend.  
   
 Q.   A lot is obviously made about the big crowds coming into Saturday.   Does that momentum and confidence help the way you play coming into the weekend here?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I hope so, yeah.   I feel like I'm putting great again.   I feel like I figured out what was going on with my putting.   If I get my ball striking back to where it was yesterday, I should be in great shape heading into the next two days.   
Bubba is playing great, but I like where I am right now.  
   
 Q.   Second round of 7‑under.   Fantastic golfing with some trying conditions here.   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, it was nice.   I played really well yesterday and putted pretty horrendously.   I worked on it hard last night, and I found something last night.   It transferred into some great putting down there.   
I rolled the ball fantastic, and I made a lot of key putts today.   With the wind blowing the way it is, playing tough, ready for the weekend.   
   
 Q.   Obviously very different conditions to Torrey Pines last week.   Talk us through how you would go about preparing for such vast weather and golf course changes.  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   The hardest thing is getting the distance control down.   The ball seems to go so far in the desert, making numbers, clubs as far as you're not used to hitting them.   
Big change from last week.   I think the guys who manage their distance control really well seem to play well here.   It's a tough thing to do.   You never really know how far you're going to hit it.   You try to do your best guess.   I did a great job today trying to keep control of that ball, keep it in the right spots on the greens.  
   
 Q.   Harris says he's going for the Broncos on the weekend.     Where are you leaning?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Everybody I know is going for the Broncos.   I think everyone wants to see Peyton Manning get his last Super Bowl.   So pulling hard for him.   I think they've got a good chance.   
It's going to be a great game.   It could come down to one or two possessions either way.   Hopefully it will be a good game if they can pull it out.  
   
 Q.   And your thoughts for playing this weekend?   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Bubba is playing some great golf, so it will take some special stuff over the weekend to catch him.   I put myself into a position where I've got a chance now, at least, and if I go out there tomorrow and shoot something low, I can put myself back in contention.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT