THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 2, 2013
Brandt Snedeker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Have you spent much time with Jordan?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, a little bit.   He's a great kid.   Get to see his personality a little bit more, talk to him a little bit more.   He's a great kid with a great head on his shoulders, and he's a star in the making.   This kid is unbelievable.   He's got that wow factor.   He seems to do the unbelievable.   Pretty awesome, and that's cool to see.  
   
 Q.   Have you ever seen anything like that?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Never, never, nothing that I've ever been at least.   
   
 Q.   And yet he's‑‑  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, he's a really quiet‑‑ he's really quiet and goes about his business, but he's a really fun guy to be around.   He's super humble, super nice kid, and it's great to see him have success this early in his career.   
   
 Q.   Would you give a description of No.15, the par‑5 up the hill?   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   530‑yard par‑5, plays up the hill, plays a little bit longer than that.   Obviously the tee shot is usually, trees right and left, thick rough, so getting the ball in the fairway off the tee is imperative.   Everybody in the field can reach it pretty easily.   There's a speed bunker on the left and a big bunker on the right, greens slopes severity left to right, and from front to back it's got a ridge in the middle of the green, so you try and hit the ball anywhere on the right side of the green.   Left here is dead.   You cannot miss it left.   Should be a very pivotal hole.   A lot of birdies, a lot of eagles, and you're in trouble if you put it in the wrong spot.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, actually the course is playing very similar.   I shouldn't say that.   It's playing a little firmer than it normally has in the past.   Fairways are running out a little bit and the greens are in great shape.   But not a lot of rough.   Playing a little different in that aspect.   
It kind of depends on which format you're in or how aggressive you're going to be or where you're trying to leave your partner sometimes, try to make as many birdies as you can because you know around this place you can get on runs and make a lot of them.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   It's great.   You love getting back to these atmospheres and being around the guys on the team and having some fun.   You just hope that it can come together for four days and have a lot of fun and make a lot of birdies.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   You know, Kuch is always kind of the life of the room.   He kind of likes to have a good time and make sure everybody else does, too.   I think everybody is having a good time.   Everybody is real relaxed, and it's a good mix of guys, good group of guys that seem to get along really well, and we're having a lot of fun.  
   
 Q.   Do you know who you guys are going to face tomorrow?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, obviously Graeme and Jason are playing some of the best golf on the PGA TOUR and have been the last two months of the year, and Jason being a hometown boy, it's going to have an interesting feel out there tomorrow.   Hunter and I have our hands full.   I feel really comfortable about our chances.   
Hunter is playing great.   It's always fun to be his partner because you know he's going to be in the middle of the fairways, middle of the greens and making a lot of putts and birdies.   So should be a lot of fun.   
   
 Q.   There's been a lot of talk that (inaudible) you guys have dominated (inaudible) is there any (inaudible)?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   No, no, God, no.   I think everybody on our team realizes we've got a tough test in front of us.   I think we realize all these guys except for probably Matsuyama is probably the guy we know the least about.   The rest of the guys we play on a regular basis.   We see them a lot and realize how good they're playing, and these guys are by no means the underdogs they're trying to make themselves out to be.   It's going to be a very, very close match, and these guys are playing phenomenal golf.   And you've got Graham Delaet who is probably playing some of the best golf in the world right now, Brendon de Jonge, another one of the guys, another top player, he's playing some of the best golf in the last three months as anybody in the world.   They've got some guys that can really play some golf, and it's going to be a really tough test.  
   
 Q.   Can you describe the relationship between you and Hunter?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Pretty good.   Hunter is an easy guy to get along with, kind of like me.   Should be a lot of fun.   Hunter and I have played golf together since we were in high school and college, so this is nothing new to us.   It's always great to say Hunter Mahan is my partner because I know what that means.   He's down the middle of every fairway and the middle of every green, so it'll be nice to have that kind of safety net behind me.   
   
 Q.   Did you kind of expect it coming in?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, the great thing about our team is there's probably six or seven guys I see myself playing with, so I wasn't really concerned with who it was going to be, and to have Hunter be that guy, it should be a lot of fun.   
   
 Q.   Did you have a lot of guys fighting to play with you?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I don't know.   I think we were all kind of in the same boat where we could probably play with six or seven different guys.   I had a lot of fun the last three days playing with Bill and Hunter and Webb, so we had a good time out there, so I could see us being interchangeable with whoever it may be.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   No, I think everybody wanted Jordan to be their partner right now, the way he's been playing.   
   
 Q.   Steve spoke yesterday about the Ryder Cup leaving a bad taste in his mouth and this maybe being said that can get him over that.   Do you feel the same way?   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I feel a little bit of that.   The last two team competitions did not end the way I wanted it to or anybody wanted it to.   I think I want to get back and show that we can kind of come out with a better outcome hopefully.   Even though they are two different competitions, you still feel like‑‑ I get the same feeling from both, the same excitement and the same nerves.   I think like Steve, we all are still kind of gutted from the last time we were in team competition, wanted to kind of come back here and get on the right note.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I do, yeah.   I feel great right now.   The last week was a great week off.   I had two of the last four weeks off, which was nice, and I feel refreshed and ready to go, mentally prepared for the next four days.   
   
 Q.   How did Stricker get to play with Jordan?   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I don't know.   I guess we gave it to the most senior member.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I am, yeah.   It's the new B‑330, and it's a little longer off the tee, spins a little bit more around the greens, and feels a little softer, so it's a great combination.   
   
 Q.   How long have you been playing it?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   A week.   It's that good.   Straight in the bag.   Kuch, too.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   You know, hole by hole basis, you've got to‑‑ obviously I think par‑5, No.5, will be an important one on how aggressive you want to be there, if you're both in the fairway, who's going to go, who's going to lay up.   
7 won't be much of a decision.   There's not a lot of trouble up there.   
11 will be a decision off the tee.   If you want to be aggressive and hit driver and try to get down there and knock it on in two or lay back and play it as a three‑shot hole, depending on what your partner does, how you play that hole.  
14 will be the only other one I could see being an issue.  
   
 Q.   Along those same lines, is it dramatically different in this format than it is in the Ryder Cup?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Not dramatically different, but there will be some differences out there.   You might be a little more aggressive in spots than you normally would be.   Definitely with us, I'm sure one of us will play safe on a bunch of holes; one of us will be more aggressive and go after some more shots, try to put some pressure on the other team, and just kind of try to play to our strengths.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, it's a cool thing.   It's kind of nice to see‑‑ I think Phil and Tiger need a different bag almost, they've got so many Cups on their bag.   That's kind of cool to see how many guys have played in, and it's kind of a cool, I guess, addition to this year's bag.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, it's going to be a tough match.   Jason and Graeme are both playing great right now.   They both hit the ball a mile, great ball strikers.   So obviously with Jason being a hometown boy here, it's going to become an interesting dynamic out there on the golf course, see how the crowd reacts.   
Obviously the first match is obviously important to get off to a good start for everybody on either side, so we realize the importance of that match, want to go out there and try to make sure it's a good one.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, I mean, it'll mean a whole lot on a week in, week out basis.   I think everybody on our side realizes how tough the international team is.   They're all playing some really great golf right now.   They are not the massive underdogs everybody tries to make them out to be.   They're playing probably if you go top to bottom about as solid as we are right now.   It's going to come down to who makes the key putts at the right times.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   I mean, I think every day it's getting more and more intense.   I think this is something that the crowds were pretty big today, got kind of the emotion going a little bit, lets you now how exciting it's going to be tomorrow.   But it's going to be a very intense match‑up.   We don't want to lose.   Americans have a pretty good track record in this competition, and we don't want to be the first ones to lose on U.S. soil.   We need to go out there tomorrow and start taking care of business.   
   
 Q.   Does this place feel different than when you play it in the Memorial?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Not really.   Trees have turned a little bit.   The golf course is very similar to how it is at Memorial.   The only difference is we don't have a lot of rough this year, but the fairways here are relatively big, so that's not a big issue typically for us.   So it's going to be a little bit‑‑ greens are the same, relatively firm and fast.   So not a big difference.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Obviously.   Should be a lot more birdies and a lot more guys being able to be aggressive than probably years past.   
   
 Q.   Do you look more at the birdie holes than you would during the Memorial?  
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   Yeah, I mean, for me it's different.   For me I'm just trying to put the ball in the right spots and leave myself putts, but yeah, there's going to be some times when‑‑ maybe 11 is a time I hit driver when I normally wouldn't.   14, if we're playing well and feel like I'm swinging well, I might hit driver when I normally wouldn't.   There might be some holes where you might change your game plan a little bit.  
   
 Q.   What do you think of Phil's 19th straight year in Ryder Cup, Presidents Cup?   He's made every team but the first one since he turned pro.   
BRANDT SNEDEKER:   It's pretty phenomenal when you think about it.   You think about his longevity and how long he's been relevant, almost a rock star in this game, and to see him at this age‑‑ he's 42 or 43 now, I think, and still won a major this year, still on top of his game after all these years is pretty phenomenal.   He's a great guy to have in the team room, a great guy to lean on with all the experience he has in these things.   We're lucky to have him on our side, that's for sure.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT