NBA FINALS: WARRIORS VS. RAPTORS
May 29, 2019
Klay Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Draymond said a few days ago that he is the best defender ever.  Wondering if you could react to that kind of claim, and talk about another defender and his abilities, Kawhi Leonard, in this series.
KLAY THOMPSON: Both those two could be in the argument, especially of our time, this generation.  I think they will be forever remembered in this generation as some of the greatest defenders.  Obviously both Defensive Players of the Year.  Can guard multiple positions.  Their versatility is what, to me, stands out the most.  It's not like they're just protecting the rim, but they can guard one through five and do it so effectively.  So that's my thoughts on both of them.
Q. As for Draymond's claim that's the best ever?
KLAY THOMPSON: I agree.  He's my teammate of seven years, so I will forever have his back.  And fellow champion.  So he's a three-time champion for a reason just because, like I said before, his versatility on the defensive end is amazing.
Q. In the next two weeks or so if a Drake song comes up on a playlist or just plays, do you skip it or do you take it out of the playlist?
KLAY THOMPSON: If it's a bad song, I'll skip it.  But if it's one of his hits, I'll play it.  I've been a Drake fan since I was in high school.  He's a great artist.  Do I like him as a Raptor fan?  No.  But I like him as a musician.  He's extremely talented.  But I will definitely skip the song if I don't like it, and if it's one of his soft R & B songs, I'm going to skip it because I'm in kill mode right now, you know?  I'm trying to get these four games.  So I'll skip Hotline Bling and anything along that line.
Q. Just talking about legacy in pro sports, The Finals appearances, the titles it's not an easy thing to do it so often.  What's the legacy of this team?
KLAY THOMPSON: Oh, man, that's a great question.  It's hard to formulate that answer right now because I think we're in the midst of a dynasty run that's still ongoing.  But hopefully when it's all said and done people will just remember us for our talent, for our ability to play as a team, and the consistency of year in and year out being able to reach the NBA Finals and perform at the highest level.
Q. I know this a new opponent but you've played a lot these guys previously in the Western Conference playoffs, so you're familiar with them.  How do you evaluate this team versus what you saw last year against Cleveland, comparing the two teams?
KLAY THOMPSON: Well, they're similar in the aspect that they have a MVP-caliber player in Kawhi Leonard.  And then they have everyone else who know their roles and they do them very well.  Kyle Lowry has been a staple obviously, and one of the greatest ever to put a uniform on for this franchise.  So you got to give Kyle a ton of credit for willing this team here, especially when he's heard all the criticism about his game and his performance in the playoffs.  But for him to come back and make it here is amazing, and just to kind of prove all them wrong.
And then they got another guy in Siakam, who I'm a big fan of.  I think his scoring ability around the rim is really good.  He's like a modern-day power forward.  He's the type of guy you want in that four spot.  Then VanVleet has obviously been shooting the ball very well the last few games.
But, yeah, they have a very good team, and they're here for a reason.  So you can't take them lightly just because they haven't been here before.  They have our respect and we'll come correct tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT