GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS MEDIA CONFERENCE
May 23, 2019
Klay Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How is the break treating you?
KLAY THOMPSON: Great.  Great.  I wish it was sunny.
Q. It was sunny today.
KLAY THOMPSON: A little bit.  A little overcast.  But it's all good.
Q. The release came out today that Kevin was probably not going to be with you guys at the start of the Finals.  How do you guys address that?
KLAY THOMPSON: Oh, man.  Just keep doing what we've been doing.  It'll be really difficult without him, but I mean, it's doable if we put our minds to it.
Q. The second-team all-defense, obviously you take a lot of pride on that side of the ball.
KLAY THOMPSON: Oh, man, very grateful to be recognized.  Huge honor, and it's motivation to keep going and hopefully get on the first team one day.
Q. Is that a big deal to you?
KLAY THOMPSON: Yes, it was.  I was happy to make it.  It's hard work, and I was very happy to make it.
Q. What part of your defense do you think maybe didn't really get credited?
KLAY THOMPSON: I'm not sure.  I don't know.  It's a good question.
Q. You nearly made the all-NBA team, which would have elevated --
KLAY THOMPSON: Oh, I did?  It already came out?
Q. Yeah, it came out today.  You were right behind (indiscernible) you were a couple --
KLAY THOMPSON: I mean, that's cool and all, but like when you go to five straight Finals, I respect those guys, but when you go to five straight, it takes more than just a couple NBA guys.  It's like the all-time team.  But whatever.  I would rather win a championship than be third-team all-NBA.
Q. Do you not like that that affects contract statuses in the NBA because that would have elevated you --
KLAY THOMPSON: Yeah.  It is what it is.  You know, I can't control it.  Do I think there's that many guards better than me in the league?  No, but that's the reason why we're still playing.  I don't even want to get into it, honestly.
Q. How are you going to roll that off your back given there's money implications?
KLAY THOMPSON: Rings.
Q. You guys have the talent and the depth to win games without Kevin and DeMarcus, but still, that's difficult to do.  Talk about that.
KLAY THOMPSON: Just everyone is being a professional, and guys when they're called up -- Steve said it, it takes three, four guys to replace what he does, and for these bench guys to come in and do what they've been doing the last three rounds, it's incredible.
Q. Do you like routine, and do injuries kind of throw that curve ball, and I know you have to adjust, but what is that like in the Playoffs --
KLAY THOMPSON: I mean, no one is going to -- yeah, no one is going to feel bad for us.  We've played a lot of injured teams the last few years of the Playoffs, so fans probably look at us thinking, about time they deal with a little injury adversity.  And it's that time of the year where everyone is going to be a little banged up.  You've just got to mentally fight through it.
Q. I'm not saying it's a detriment, but you're playing at such a high level in the Playoffs, how much adjustment does that take to everybody's (indiscernible) when there's such small margins?
KLAY THOMPSON: Yeah, honestly not too much because those guys are so talented that you just throw them out there and they'll do great things.  We've got guys who are great at adapting to their roles, so I'm not too worried.
Q. This is where experience comes into play?
KLAY THOMPSON: Oh, for sure, 100 percent.
Q. Draymond said that despite the changes, we all recognize that his play lately, his demeanor, he says, "I'm the same guy."  Do you see that as the case?  Is he the same guy?
KLAY THOMPSON: Yeah, he's the same -- he's been doing this for years now, so his triple doubles, the defensive play, that really doesn't surprise me.
Q. Have you seen him change at all?
KLAY THOMPSON: Not really, I just do what I do.  Try and be effective on both sides of the ball.
Q. Adam Silver was floating the idea because of maybe some concerns about the ratings to move up times on the West Coast.  What do you think about that idea?
KLAY THOMPSON: It's not a bad idea, you work nights a little more, so it wouldn't be the worst thing.
Q. What was the day-to-day regimen like in the Portland series knowing there was no shootaround because of the time differences?
KLAY THOMPSON: It was a little different, but hey, it worked out, baby.  Sweep.  So could be worse.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT