NBA PLAYOFFS ROUND ONE: CLIPPERS vs WARRIORS
April 15, 2019
Klay Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Warriors - 131, Clippers - 135
THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. Klay, what do you think accounted overall for the high number of turnovers and fouls?
KLAY THOMPSON: Lack of focus, lack of effort, just playing with heart.  Those three things.  We'll come back and we'll bounce back, play with great passion in a few days.
Q. Klay, the first three quarters you looked in pretty good shape.  Fourth quarter, what happened in your mind?
KLAY THOMPSON: We let our guard down.  We weren't the aggressors any more.  We didn't deserve to win that game.  Basketball gods didn't reward us.  I had a wide-open look at the top of the key, in and out.  It happens.  We'll bounce back.  I'll bounce back.  The whole team will.  We'll right the ship.
Q. If DeMarcus is out for an extended period of time, how does that change the way you guys play?
KLAY THOMPSON: We'll miss his low-post dominance, of course.  We'll miss his screen setting, his energy out there.  I'm hoping for a speedy recovery because we really need him if we want to make this run.
Q. With DeMarcus, knowing what he has gone through this past year, how do you process this overall?
KLAY THOMPSON: We'll rally behind him, tell him it's far from the end of the world, tell him he has so much great basketball ahead of him.  He believes that.  It sucks.  Injury is a part of the game, terrible part of the game.
He'll bounce back.  I know he will.  He's a fighter.
Q. Looked like you guys were pretty angry coming off the floor.  Is anger a good emotion to have after a game like this?
KLAY THOMPSON: If channeled right, it will be.  I think it will.  We have a lot of experience.  First time we've been tied in a series.  I know we'll bounce back.  We're too prideful not to.
Q. What do you need to do better on Lou Williams?
KLAY THOMPSON: I don't know.  Try and stop him from making shots.  He's been hot these first two games.  Hopefully in L.A. we'll corral him better, slow him down.
Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT