NBA ALL-STAR 2019
February 16, 2019
Klay Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. If you could trade places with any of your teammates this week, who would it be?
KLAY THOMPSON: If I couldn't be here in Charlotte, I know Draymond is in some beautiful, exotic destination.  I think Puerto Vallarta.  So that sounds pretty nice.
Q. What about someone here?
KLAY THOMPSON: Probably KD, because Steph being in his hometown, I know he's got a ton of responsibility, and this is kind of a weekend to rejuvenate.  At the same time, it would be fun to be Steph because this is the town he grew up in and seeing his dad and being able to compete against his brother.  So it's kind of a coin flip, to be honest.
Q. Who's the most underrated Warrior?
KLAY THOMPSON: Underrated Warrior?  Ron Adams.
Q. What do you remember about Dirk and playing against him?
KLAY THOMPSON: I will always remember his work ethic, his patented one-foot fadeaway, and just his mismatch nightmare self.  To be 7 foot and be able to stretch the floor, he kind of revolutionized the way a big man can play.
Q. Do you have a favorite MJ story?
KLAY THOMPSON: Favorite MJ story?  Man, I don't know.  My favorite MJ story is probably just Space Jam.  I love that movie.  That movie is timeless.
Q. If you could make the perfect All-Star, what are some of the particular players and particular skills that you look at?  I've heard of a lot of your and Steph's shot, LeBron's IQ.  What are some of the players' moves you would take?
KLAY THOMPSON: You take KD or Giannis' length, Steph's shooting ability, Kyrie's handles, Kawhi's hand size and instincts on defense, LeBron's power, my dazzling great looks.  I could go on for days.  I don't know.  I could go on all day.
Q. Talk about Bradley Beal's abilities and what you like about his game.
KLAY THOMPSON: He's got a ton of responsibility on his shoulders this year with John Wall being out, unfortunately.  He's another great player.  I know he's got a triple-double this year.  You've seen him grow into more than just a scorer.  He can play both positions in the backcourt, and without him, I don't know where the Wizards would be right now.  So he's kind of making that team go.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT