GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 24, 2018
Klay Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I'm just kind of curious about your trip to Qatar and what that experience must have been like.
KLAY THOMPSON: It was a great experience.  Very thankful for the places basketball has taken me, and it was a promotional trip for the 2022 World Cup.  Obviously for myself I'm a huge football fan, so to be able to go over there and play on the pitch that they'll play on during the World Cup, it was awesome.  I would love to do it again.
Q. What was your favorite moment this summer in Qatar, China or your camp, anything else?
KLAY THOMPSON: My camp was a ton of fun, just being around kids is a great time.  Probably the Thompson Family Foundation golf tournament.  That was so much fun.  Shout out to TPC Harding Park for hosting us, and I played great, too, so that always helps.  But just a fun day on the course for a great cause.
Q. You talked this time last year about how your goal was to make the 50-40-90 club.  Is that still a goal or do you have a specific goal for this season?
KLAY THOMPSON: To make that club and to three-peat.  Those are my two goals.  That would be pretty -- that would be a great year.
Q. They kind of joke when DeMarcus signed on that you might not even know and you weren't even part of the recruiting process.  I assume you obviously at least were following the news, but do you ever want to be part of those free agency recruiting stuff, or are you just kind of content whatever happens happens?
KLAY THOMPSON: I was ecstatic to hear that DeMarcus was coming on board.  Actually today was the first time I talked to him, but it's like we haven't missed a beat.  I've been his teammate twice with USA Basketball, and I've had great experiences with him, and I'm looking forward to continuing those experiences this year because it's going to be a long year, and I know he's going to help us get to where we need to go.  He's so talented.
Q. How did you find out that DeMarcus had signed?
KLAY THOMPSON: My agent texted me, and then Bob Myers texted me.  So it's pretty simple.
Q. Obviously you've got your contract expiring next summer.  I know you don't like a big deal made about it, but the Warriors have said they want to talk to you about doing the deal before.  What's the likelihood in your mind that you do have a deal done before it expires?
KLAY THOMPSON: I'm not sure.  That's why I've got to -- that's why I've got my agent.  He helps me with these things, especially that's when he really gets his money's worth during these times.  As long as I'm here in this Warriors uniform and we're able to compete for championships, that's what my sole focus is on is just trying to win another championship and enjoy the ride along the way because it goes by fast, as we all know.
Q. You just mentioned enjoying the ride along the way, and Bob Myers and Steve Kerr both said some similar things looking ahead to this season.  How do you balance that with the obvious discipline that it takes to accomplish what you want to accomplish?
KLAY THOMPSON: Ooh, that's a good question.  I think it just comes with just having a healthy appreciation of the game of basketball and a love for the game that unwavers during tumultuous times, and I think with our team, we're lucky because our best players truly love the game, and it has a trickle-down effect to every single man on this team as well as the front office and the training staff and the coaches.  Although you want to look to the future and think, oh, we could cement ourselves as one of the greatest dynasties ever if we do this, you've got to fight that urge as hard as you can because we are very lucky to play on a team that gets the attention we do, especially on the road, going to these different arenas and having a sellout every night is something that we don't take for granted.  So that's what I mean about enjoying the ride, just don't try and shortcut it to the Playoffs or the Finals, just try and even this Saturday with our first preseason game, enjoy every minute we get of this attention because it doesn't last forever.
Q. As much fun as you've had with this group and as much as you guys have accomplished, is there a part of you that's at least curious about what it's like to be a free agent because you've never been one before?
KLAY THOMPSON: To be honest, not really.  I think when guys go into free agency they're searching for a situation like mine or similar to our team.  I'm perfectly content here.  Just look around the walls at all the art and to see I was a part of this buildup is what keeps me motivated and keeps me wanting to be a Warrior for my whole career.
Q. How have you changed as a man in this postseason compared to previous years?  And also, can you talk about, as you play your final year at Oracle Arena, what has been your most memorable moment at Oracle.
KLAY THOMPSON: How did I change?  I mean, I think I was more comfortable last postseason with speaking up, more than I ever had been in the past, and especially when our backs were against the wall against the Rockets.  I was pretty vocal those last couple of games, so that might have been a big change for me.
And as far as Oracle Arena, it's very bittersweet to be leaving.  I've had -- my whole NBA career has been in that building.  The fans have been so great.  The staff who works there has been amazing, especially security teams.  I've known so many of those guys my whole career, and my favorite memories, there's so many.  It's really hard to pick one.  Ring nights are always fun, but I remember the first playoff series we ever had there against the Denver Nuggets, my first playoff series, that was a ton of fun just because they'd been itching to get back to the postseason for about five or six years at the time, and the hype was well worth it, and it was so loud in there, and it was my first taste of playoff basketball, so those are probably some of my best memories is my first playoff run.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT