NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: WARRIORS vs ROCKETS
May 15, 2018
Klay Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What did you think about Steph Curry's impact on the game last night?  
KLAY THOMPSON: Well, his impact has always gone beyond scoring.  That play where he got the steal and made that great pass to Andre, it kind of set us in motion as far as going on a run.  Yeah, I mean, he did everything else and had an efficient offensive night.   
 Q.  How much do you think it shifted the momentum of the series for you all to win Game 1 here?  
KLAY THOMPSON: That was a big win.  We're not going to down play it, but we're not satisfied.  We have a golden opportunity tomorrow to take a good lead.  You have to have a short memory in the playoffs, because the next game will come at you fast, and it might feel good to win [Game 1], but it's a seven-game series for a reason.   
 Q.  [Indiscernible]  
KLAY THOMPSON: Yeah, well, it's tiring for them, and it wears them down for offense.  A guy's got to dribble so much and defend, it's not easy.  So we try to do that to them.  Brought our best, and the ball zipped around the perimeter. Everyone was getting a touch.  It's just easier to conserve energy that way than trying to do it all by ourselves.  We've got to be efficient.   
 Q.  It looked like you were having a lot of fun out there.  Do you actually just enjoy the experience?  
KLAY THOMPSON: Oh, I love it.  It's the Western Finals.  Some guys haven't even experienced this.  It's the best part of the year.  It's second only to The Finals, and I'm enjoying myself.   
 Q.  Do you get the sense you're going to get to see a lot of open looks in this series based on what they have to do with everybody else?  
KLAY THOMPSON: I don't think so.  I think they're going to make adjustments.  I'll get open looks if I work for them.  I won't if I just stand around and wait for them.  I've got to really work for them, as far as moving off the ball, filling the lanes on the fast break.  If I do that, I'll get some looks.   
 Q.  What is more satisfying? A back-door cut for a layup or a long range shot going in?  
KLAY THOMPSON: I like the backdoor cut because once you do that the defense is on their heels because they've got to play at the rim.  As a shooter, it just helps every time you see the ball go to the rim, whether it's a free throw or a lay-up.  It gives you confidence.   
 Q.  Do you think you'll be able to have the mental wherewithal to handle 48 minutes?  
KLAY THOMPSON: You need mental toughness in every NBA games, especially in the playoffs when the pressure's on.  You have to play with no fear.   
 Q.  What adjustments are you expecting to see from the Rockets?  
KLAY THOMPSON: I'm not sure.  I think they'll play at a faster pace, try to get some easier buckets in transition.  That's probably the biggest adjustment I think we'll see.   
 Q.  Does winning the first game in any sense take some of the pressure off you guys?  
KLAY THOMPSON: No, and we don't want to think like that.  That's just a trap.  There is still a lot of pressure on us.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT