NBA PLAYOFFS ROUND ONE: SPURS vs WARRIORS
April 16, 2018
Klay Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Game 2
Warriors 116, Spurs 101
Q. Klay, Steve Kerr said that he thinks maybe your thumb injury, giving you rest may have helped you.  Do you feel it provided any benefits in terms of just giving you more burst at this point in the season?
KLAY THOMPSON: I think so.  I mean, any time you can take a few games off, unfortunately it hurts when you do, but in the long run, we try to play till June every season.  So I think it will help out in the long run for sure.
Q. Wasn't exactly a smooth ride, bit of a rough stretch in the first half.  Can you talk about what happened there?  Did you feel like there was a focus issue reminiscent of what you were going through in the regular season?
KLAY THOMPSON: I don't think it was focus.  It's the playoffs.  It's hard to have a smooth game every game, especially against the Spurs, because I'm sure they are motivated, and they played so hard that first half.  They made it tough on us.  They were so physical and knocking us off our cuts, fighting over every screen, forced turnovers.  Some of it was on us, not being sure at the ball.  But give them credit, they came out and responded very well that first half in the last game.
Q. After missing four of your first five shots, what did you do to get yourself in rhythm and how did that compare to Game 1?
KLAY THOMPSON: Well, doesn't matter whether I make five in a row or miss five in a row.  I'm going to have the same mentality the next time down the road.  That's be aggressive, to make a good play.  That doesn't mean just getting the shot.  That just means making the right play because that usually will get you in a rhythm if you just make a play for a teammate; cut hard off the ball.  So for me, it's never about making or missing shots.  Just about keeping the mindset and being aggressive.
Q. Do you feel like you've got to put more on yourself to hit from three with Steph out?  Do you put any extra pressure on yourself to give the team more of that because of that?
KLAY THOMPSON: I mean, there's definitely extra pressure but in my mind, no, I don't, because that's unwarranted.  I don't need to do that.  Just go out there and be myself, be free-minded, have fun, because it is basketball and it's sufficient posed to be a lot of fun, which it is.
Just play hard.  No one can make up Steph's, you know, contributions individually.  That's got to be done as a team and even then, it's hard, with the way he can shoot the ball.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT