NBA ALL-STAR 2018
February 17, 2018
Klay Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How was practice with Team Stephen?
KLAY THOMPSON: It was the hardest practice of the year.
Q. What made it so?
KLAY THOMPSON: I'm just kidding.  It was the easiest thing I've ever done.  It was fun though.
Q. Can you talk about how the team is coming together and the talent on the roster?
KLAY THOMPSON: I could see us being a very three-point-heavy team.  But we have great athletes, so I'm excited to play tomorrow.  It's going to be fun.
Q. How would you describe L.A. basketball?
KLAY THOMPSON: L.A. basketball, that's a great question.  I mean, there have been so many great players in the history of Los Angeles and Southern California and California in general.  California is such a big state.
L.A. basketball.  That's a great question.  Gosh, I don't know, man.  I never really described it like that.  You get every type of player in L.A.  I'm a shooter.  A guy that I played with growing up, Brandon Jennings, had the best handles.  Jrue Holiday. DeMar [DeRozan] was a freak athlete.  So the list goes on.  It's hard to put it into one description, so I've got to come back to that.
Q. Your thoughts on tonight?  And Steph said you had not really prepared at all?
KLAY THOMPSON: Yeah, sometimes less is more.  I think in this case it applies.  I've done it three times now, so I'm pretty familiar with what it feels like to be out there.  Lot of nerves, believe it or not, but we'll get a warm-up, so I don't think I need to practice off the rack or anything.  It will be all right.
Q. How much do you want it given that it's L.A., your home?  Your title slipped away last year?
KLAY THOMPSON: Yeah, I want it.  Everyone in the field really wants it, but I want it bad.  It's a fun event.  Proud of myself for being one of the best shooters in the league, so this will solidify that.  It's just a fun atmosphere while doing it.  Especially when you get hot and the crowd gets into it.
Q. What do you see from the competition?
KLAY THOMPSON: Probably go with Eric [Gordon] just because he won last year.  He took the title from me, so I'll have to go with Eric Gordon.
Q. With the Olympics going on, if you had to put together a bobsled team, who are you putting on your team?
KLAY THOMPSON: Oh, probably, you need speed, so I would put John Wall, Russell Westbrook, and those are just purely fast, and Giannis.  That's a good team right there.
Q. What's it mean to have six L.A. guys in this game?  What's it mean to you personally?
KLAY THOMPSON: Wow, six?  Man, that's a lot, yeah.  That's incredible.  Especially being able to play with Paul George and DeMar DeRozan, growing up in the same class is pretty cool.  We got to play in the Olympics together, and now the All-Star team.  It's surreal how much talent that class had.  It's a testament to the talent pool in the state.
Q. Who is the biggest pro wrestling fan on the Warriors?
KLAY THOMPSON: The biggest pro wresting fan I know is Mychal Thompson.  On the Warriors?  That's a great question.  Probably -- I don't know.  Probably like Steph.
Q. With Gronk and Ronda Rousey and everyone else starting to go into WWE, which NBA player do you think would have the best (indiscernible)?
KLAY THOMPSON: Probably Draymond and DeMarcus Cousins just because they have the attitude for it.  I think they're good entertainers.  Maybe Joel Embiid would be good, too, because he's a monster of a man.
So there are so many good options.  There are a lot of guys with great personalities in this league who shine on that kind of stage.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT