NBA FINALS: CLEVELAND VS GOLDEN STATE
May 31, 2017
Klay Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You should be used to this.
KLAY THOMPSON: Well, you never get used to it because it's such a privilege to be here.  But it does feel familiar.  Third time around it's pretty exciting, obviously, with what's at stake and being the first time two teams faced each other in a trilogy in NBA history.  It's also great to be a part of.  But it's just great to get back out here again.  We have been itching to get back on the court for a week, so it feels great it's finally here.
Q. Do you look at this as kind of a redemption series from what happened last year, or you can't get caught up in that?
KLAY THOMPSON: Yeah, you can feel that redemption.  It's natural.  Beat the guys who beat you.  I'm sure they felt the same way [in 2015], being not fully healthy or whatever.  We definitely feel like we were close.  But you just have that in the back of your mind.  Don't let it overtake what is at stake, but, yeah, you can feel a little redemption if you want.  Whatever gets you going.  But our fans definitely feel that way.
Q. How do you feel going in like your third Finals and how does everybody react?
KLAY THOMPSON: Well, first off, I feel great.  I feel very healthy and fresh.  Very lucky to only play 12 games to get here.  It was a lot of hard work, but feel very fresh.  It's an honor to be doing this for the third time.
I don't take it for granted.  I just want to put on a great show and hopefully win.  Everyone's feeling very excited, feeling healthy, and they can't wait to get out there.
So it's not just me.  We're all itching to get back out here and put on a show for our fans.
Q. When your shot's not falling, does it feel any different in practice when you're warming up and stuff?
KLAY THOMPSON: Not anymore, because I've had a week off.  So I feel great.  Can't get caught up in your shot falling or not.  But what happened in the past in my mind doesn't really count now unless we go out and finish the deal.  So as long as I perform at this stage now and play my hardest, that's all can I ask for.  It's been working up to this point, so I can't change what I'm doing.
Q. Do you expect them to hound that three-point line again and go after you and Steph, and what does Durant bring into the equation with that in mind?
KLAY THOMPSON: I expect them to try to get us off the three.  Teams have been trying to do all it all year, understandably so, when you shoot it as efficiently and frequently as we do.  We'll probably try to do the same to them because they're also a very high-volume three-point-shooting team and very good at it.  They have been hitting threes the whole playoffs.  So we have to take them out of that aspect.
With Kevin, he adds such a dimension of getting to the free throw line, getting to the rim for easy points.  We might not have had that last year when we were in an offensive rut.  When we need to get to the foul line or get an easy bucket, Kevin is just an automatic good shot.  Just throw it to him and get out of the way and let him do his magic.
Q. Did you watch last season's Finals again?
KLAY THOMPSON: I did.  It took me a while, but I finally watched it.  I watched every game.  There are times you're kicking yourself -- where this play could have gone that way and it could have changed the series.  But you have to learn from it.  You can't hold on to it.  You use it as fuel.  But you can't let it hold you back.  You learn from that.  And now that we are here, we just have to learn from what we failed at last year and try to make it right, which I think we will.
Q. When did you do that?
KLAY THOMPSON: I watched it this season, because it was like a new slate.  I watched it at the beginning of the year and now just to get a familiarity with the Cavs.  I didn't watch it last offseason because I was playing for Team USA and there was no point in reliving that moment.
So for me, I could watch it now.  And it obviously still hurts a lot.  Ask any competitor that's been in that situation, it kills you.  But like I said, we learned from it.  If you want to say redeem ourselves or hang another banner, we are here and we just have to take advantage of it.
Q. What do you think of all this, all the cameras?  This is the third time you've done it now.  Is it fun?
KLAY THOMPSON: It is fun.  It's still not my favorite thing to do, but it's an honor to be here.  And there's so much international media.  It's crazy to see how big basketball has become globally.  For everyone to come out and see these two great teams out here, it's phenomenal.
I won't be able to do this for the rest of my life, so I'm going to enjoy this time while I can because it goes by like this.  I remember when it was 2015 and it all seemed so fresh and the stage was so big and I was so nervous, but now I just can't wait to get back out there.
Q. What do you think about all the conversation about the toaster and it being signed and good things happening?
KLAY THOMPSON: Great things have happened, obviously.  27-1.  So that toaster is still living.  I hope that streak will continue because it's a beautiful streak.
Q. Has anything happened since then?  Anybody walked in with anything to sign?
KLAY THOMPSON: No, that was it.  Just the toaster.  And I'm going to leave it at that because it's been working.
Q. Do you have any NBA Finals superstitions, things that have worked for you?
KLAY THOMPSON: NBA Finals?  Not really.  I just stick to the same routine I've been doing since the first preseason game until now.  If it ain't broke, don't fix it.  So I'm trying to stay in my lane and stay focused for the next couple weeks.
Q. How is it having Coach Kerr kind of in the background yet still around, and what's his influence been in this situation?
KLAY THOMPSON: Well, Coach Kerr has been great since I've been here.  He's a fighter, so it's great to see him out here.  He tries to help as much as he can, and he has been.  He's just a calming presence.  He's great at deciphering the game and what we need to do right and what we need to do better.
We miss him out there.  Hopefully he can come back.  If not, we'll play for him and still perform.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT