NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: WARRIORS VS SPURS
May 18, 2017
Klay Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. When you look at your performance in this postseason, do you base it on the shooting percentage or are you looking at other things?
KLAY THOMPSON: I'm basing it on one thing, and that's getting 16 wins.  Last year, I feel I had a great postseason, especially statistically, but it didn't amount to nothing if you lose that last game.  So that's the only thing I really measure it on.
Q. Do you feel like you're playing good defense?
KLAY THOMPSON: Yeah, I feel like I'm playing well on both sides of the ball.  Obviously, you want the shot to go in more frequently, but that's basketball.  Due for a few big games or whatever.  But you can't get caught up in percentages, especially when you're winning.  Just got to make winning plays and play hard and everything else will take care of itself.
Q. Anything mechanically with your shot that you can feel?
KLAY THOMPSON: No, I feel good.
Q. Is it a mystery to you why shots aren't going in?
KLAY THOMPSON: No, it's not a mystery, especially when you're undefeated.  It would be a lot worse if we were losing.
Q. Four years ago you had like 40 at San Antonio in the playoff game.  How much do you remember about that series?
KLAY THOMPSON: I remember it a lot.  It was a great series.  Went back and forth.  They were a great team -- went to The Finals that year.  We were a bucket or two away from winning it, so I remember a lot.  It doesn't feel that long ago, really.  I think we gained so much valuable experience in that series.  It helps us to this day.
Q. Did you think back then, were you thinking that this was possible that you guys would eventually be --
KLAY THOMPSON: I thought it was possible.  We had so many good young players.  We were obviously a few pieces away, but I definitely thought it was possible.
Q. You like to shoot in road arenas.
KLAY THOMPSON: I like shooting anywhere, whether it's in the high school gym or NBA arena, at the park, by the beach -- it doesn't matter.  I just love putting shots up.  That's during a game and not during a game.
It's always fun to me.
Q. Do you feel like you're getting good looks out there?
KLAY THOMPSON: Yeah, I do.
Q. When you're guarding Patty Mills, is it different than anything else or do you approach it just like you're guarding anybody else?
KLAY THOMPSON: Well, he's really fast, first off.  You can't lose him.  He moves very, very well without the ball.  I think that's how he gets going, when he uses his teammates to get open looks.  So you can't relax when he doesn't have the ball.
Q. Do you still remember that Game 1 [at San Antonio in 2013]?
KLAY THOMPSON: Oh, yeah, I do.  It wasn't too long ago.  I definitely remember it.
Q. You fouled out of that game?
KLAY THOMPSON: I did.
Q. Is that why you all lost?
KLAY THOMPSON: It obviously contributed to it.  I try to play without reaching anymore.  I think I've gotten a lot better since.
Q. Coach Kerr's going to travel with the team to San Antonio.  What's that going to mean for you guys?  Do you get a sense he's about to return to the bench?
KLAY THOMPSON: Well, it's great to hear his voice.  He's a calming presence for us.  He has a great demeanor.  Obviously, he has so much experience in the playoffs and that always helps.  But I think he's going to return.  I mean, with or without him, we're going to play hard and he's going to help us in any way he can.  He's a winner, and he's proven that he'll always be there for us.
Q. You made the All-NBA Team last year but didn't make it this year.  Do you feel like it might be a little bit of a snub?
KLAY THOMPSON: Oh, I didn't even know that, so...
Q. It was announced this morning.
KLAY THOMPSON: Oh, nice.  No, that's all right.  It's no big deal.
Q. You guys have won ten straight in the postseason so far.  17 points a game is your average winning margin.  What do you think is driving the success you've had so far?
KLAY THOMPSON: A hunger to get back to The Finals and take it this year.  Our depth has been incredible.  Last game we had so many guys in double figures, a high total assist number.  Our depth is what's going to help us have a chance to win a championship this year.
Q. This is the Western Finals now.  Do you guys have the same mentality as the first two runs or feel more excited and more pressure?
KLAY THOMPSON: Yeah, we have the same mentality every time we step on the court.  That's just to win every ballgame we're in.  Leave it out there and don't look too far ahead.  Just enjoy the process and enjoy the game.  Game 3 is next.  So try our best in Game 3.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT