NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 17, 2017
Klay Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








KLAY THOMPSON: I played against him [Isaiah Thomas] a lot in college.  To see what he's doing now is amazing.  He works pretty hard.  A two-time All-Star.  It does surprise you what he's doing but not that much because he's always been very talented.  He's a great shooter, too.
Q. Pretty high praise coming from you.
KLAY THOMPSON: Yeah, he can shoot.
Q. What is the mindset knowing you're going to match up? Do you have any strategy that you go in and play defense against him?
KLAY THOMPSON: No, not really.  Just try and use your legs.  He's super quick.  You can't give him too much space.  Try and use your length and make him (inaudible).  Just keep it simple.  It's an All-Star game.
Q. It seems like there's tremendous shooting right now and a lot of superstars.  Is this the best the game has been in this league?
KLAY THOMPSON: Maybe.  It was great in the '90s.  It's always been great.  I don't know.  I think that's a subjective question, though.  Fans tend to latch on to players they know.  They obviously lost some great players the last couple of years, guys like K.G. [Kevin Garnett], Tim Duncan, and Kobe Bryant.  So I'm not sure there's an argument for it.
Q. (No microphone.)
KLAY THOMPSON: Just regular practice.  Just try to go out there and shoot and keep it simple.
Q. What have you seen from the Timberwolves in the last couple of years?
KLAY THOMPSON: They have great athletes.  They have some great young talent.  They've really improved this season after a slow start.  If they keep improving, they'll be a really good team in years to come.
Q. What's your take on the issue of resting superstars on road games?  Putting the team versus the needs of the fans who want to see superstars play?
KLAY THOMPSON: It's a tough situation.  The fans pay their hard earned money to go see a player, but young guys like me, we don't need to rest.  But older guys, the superstars, a game or two off here and there, you understand.
Q. Klay, you said about how special the league has become with the backcourt position with you, Steph, Russell [Westbrook], James [Harden] this season, Isaiah.  You guys have been amazing.  Can you just talk a little bit more about that.
KLAY THOMPSON: Guard play is at a very high level right now in the NBA.  The point guard position especially is incredibly deep.  It's going to stay that way for a long time.
Q. I was with you in the locker room when you guys won a championship in 2015.  You spoke some Spanish for us.  You got a message for your friends?
KLAY THOMPSON: Man, you put me on the spot.  Not off the top of my head.
Q. Talk about Draymond.  Is he misconstrued the way he plays, by the outsiders?
KLAY THOMPSON: A little bit.  (No microphone).  He's a great teammate.
Q. Klay, can you talk about the chemistry in the locker room with your team and what you're looking forward to going deep into the playoffs and go all the way.
KLAY THOMPSON: Chemistry is phenomenal.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT