NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 7, 2016
Klay Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Steph obviously came out yesterday and delivered the news on Rio, and Steve just a minute ago said he's a little bit relieved because after two Finals runs back to back, looking for guys to get some rest obviously.  How much will rest factor into your thinking on what you end up doing?  
KLAY THOMPSON: I hope to play for Team USA.  I mean, it would be a great honor.  Just thinking about the Olympics gives me butterflies just because that's a dream I've always had as a kid.  I figure I'll get -- when this thing is over, I'll get a couple weeks and that's all I need.   
The best thing about Team USA, no one's logging heavy minutes.  I've had the experience before, we only play 15 or 20 a game, and I'll have about a month and a half off if I am able to do it after.  So for me, it's just about when I do have downtime, just to really get off my feet, enjoy it, but it would be an honor to play for Team USA and I'd love to go to Brazil.   
 Q.  Do you have any concerns about Zika in Brazil?  
KLAY THOMPSON: I mean, a little bit.  I'm not going to lie to you.  Mosquitos love me.  I grew up in Oregon.  I felt like I was always getting bit.  So it's no joking matter, but it's a little concerning, but at the same time you've just got to take the precautionary steps to avoid it.  But it's not going to deter me from going.  Obviously, I'd still love to go represent my country.   
 Q.  You guys have lost four consecutive Game 3s dating back to last year, all on the road.  Anything that you can see that you can point to and say here's why and explain it?  
KLAY THOMPSON: Yeah, not really.  It's tough.  I mean, I know what we can do to avoid it though:  I think obviously it's easy to feel good about ourselves right now.  We've protected home court and won by a big margin, but we haven't played an away game yet.  We haven't played in this building.  And we know how much better teams are when they get home.  So Game 3's going to be pivotal for us.  It's a make-or-break game for the Cavs.  We expect them to come out with great desperation and great hunger, and we've just got to match that.  Especially in this building, you can't let them come out with more energy than you, and we can't turn it over 20 times a game, because they'll feast on that in their home court.   
 Q.  Steve touched on this by saying that you guys have already mentioned the Oklahoma City thing where you guys were down 3-1, and everybody kind of counted you out, and now the Cavs are down 2-0.  How do those lessons manifest themselves?  
KLAY THOMPSON: Don't read too much into the media.  Don't be on Twitter all the time.  Don't be on the Internet.  It's just going to either inflate your ego or you're going to feel bad about yourself.  So you've got to stay away from that as much as possible, and you've got to keep your mind on the task at hand.  That's trying to come here and steal one because I'll tell you now, this team's not going to lay down because they're down 2-0.  Both in the Conference Finals, Toronto's down 0-2, and same with us down 3-1, so it's not easy, but it's very possible for a team to even up the series.  So we can't relax, no time to relax.   
 Q.  Do you feel a little bit underrated playing together with Steph Curry, who is the MVP of the league and probably the new face?  
KLAY THOMPSON: Not really.  I mean, I feel I'm very valuable to this team.  I don't really feel underrated because I feel like I put in the work to be here right now.  It takes a whole team to get to The Finals, and we all understand that.  I don't feel underrated.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT