GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS MEDIA CONFERENCE
April 13, 2016
Klay Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Grizzlies - 104, Warriors - 125   
 Q.  You guys got the record, Steph got to 400 and didn't have to play huge minutes in the fourth quarter to get the win.  Was this as close to a perfect outcome as you could have hoped?  
KLAY THOMPSON: If I would have shot 25 more threes and got to 300, yes.  But I'm amazed by Steph, especially as a shooter, to get 400 threes in a season, that's hard to put into words.  Man, that's so hard to do.  People don't realize it.  He makes it look so easy.   
So congrats to Steph and more importantly congrats to the other 14 guys in the locker room.  We fought hard and didn't take a night off all year.  It's hard to do for 82 games.  We're going to enjoy this tonight and have a quick turnaround this weekend.   
 Q.  Can you describe the scene in the locker room when you guys went in there and what it was like?  
KLAY THOMPSON: There was a lot of joy.  Obviously everyone was getting all their gear signed and enjoying this one night.  You only get to break 72 wins once, so an incredible regular season it was.  I can't believe it's over.  It went by incredibly fast, but it was a great feeling in that locker room when Steve told us how proud he was of us.  He told us he never thought 72 wins would be broken, and for us to do it, I just can't really describe it.  Just got to embrace it, man.  It goes by fast.  So it's a quick turnaround like I said, but tonight it's our night.   
 Q.  Sometimes teams get into the first round of the game and there is a lull and takes a while to get into rhythm.  But you guys have been in important games all the way up here to win this to get to 73.  Do you think that helps you going into the playoffs?  
KLAY THOMPSON: Oh, yeah.  Everybody's best shot every night.  So we're prepared for whoever we face, and we know the gauntlet.  We know how hard it's going to be.  But it really just the regular season did prepare us.  We know what we've got to do to win.  It was just we'll look back on this and say it was the best time of my life.  It's unbelievable.   
Just every away arena we went to was sold out with plenty of Warriors fans, and not a lot of players have experienced that.  So I'm really grateful for it.   
 Q.  Klay, down the coast about 800 miles tonight Kobe Bryant went out with 60, more than even Steph had.  What can you say about a kind of performance like that in his final game as an NBA player?  
KLAY THOMPSON: You couldn't write that in a movie script.  So for him to do that, that's Mamba style.  60 points?  I mean, he's got to be the oldest ever to get 60, and that's unbelievable.  I haven't reached that yet.  And to do it at 37 years old and the miles he's got on his body, it's legendary.   
You want it to see it happen to a guy like Kobe.  He's a fierce competitor, and you respect him the most because he really did give this game his all.  You root for guys like that who really care about their craft, that's why it was great to see him do what he did.  What a night for basketball.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT