NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 12, 2016
Klay Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I wanted to ask you about your off-ball movement.  Obviously there is a lot involved, but how do you read your defender when you come off screens and sort of tell where he's trying to go?  
KLAY THOMPSON: That's a good question.  I think it's years of just trying to perfect that craft.  I mean, I studied a lot of great shooters growing up, and we were fortunate to grow up with a lot of guys who made their living off the ball.  I mean, I watched a lot of guys do that:  Chris Mullin, Reggie Miller Rip Hamilton, guys like that.  Something I learned just to set my pace, never to rush.  And being 6'7", the high release really helps, because, like I said before, I can just play at my own pace and use my offensive screening to try to get my shot off.   
 Q.  What are you looking for specifically at your defender to sort of read where he's trying to chase you?  
KLAY THOMPSON: Whether he's trying to, you know, go over the screen or try to stay attached to my hip, just basketball fundamentals 101, whether flaring back or just curling away.   
 Q.  Does it help that everyone thinks Steph Curry is going to win the three-point competition?  
KLAY THOMPSON: Everybody thinks that?  Oh, wow.  There's got to be a few who think Klay has a chance.  I mean, I don't mean to refer to myself in the third person, but there's a few out there, I think.  I'm one of them.  Hopefully my brothers, and probably the rest of the world thinks Steph.  That's fine.  I'll play the underdog for a night.  It's a unique situation.  There's only a few times me and him get to compete against each other.  We always go against each other in practice, so it's cool to do it on a real stage.   
 Q.  You're all incredible shooters.  Do you think a guy like Omri Casspi has a place in the three-point contest?  
KLAY THOMPSON: The way he shot against us last time, oh, yeah.  He went for 28 or something.   
 Q.  Any advantage for Kyle Lowry being at home in the three-point competition?  
KLAY THOMPSON: Yeah, maybe just being so familiar with the gym.  He's got the home crowd, that helps, helps the adrenaline.  That's about it, just being at home definitely helps a little bit.   
 Q.  Do you think the fans are more excited for the Three-Point Contest or the Dunk Contest Saturday?  
KLAY THOMPSON: Zach LaVine is worth the price of admission just by himself, because of his ability to jump off one or two feet is really special.  He makes it look so easy and effortless.  I think it doesn't rival it, but it's still up there.   
 Q.  I polled some fans on Twitter.  61% of them said they were more excited for a Three-Point Contest.  Does that surprise you?  
KLAY THOMPSON: Wow, a little bit.  That's really cool.  That shows the world really appreciates the way all of us shoot the ball and we're in it.  They look at it as an art form, and I do too.  I always watched the Three-Point Contests growing up.  It's going to be a fun round, because you're going to need two perfect rounds to beat Steph.   
 Q.  Where are you going to put your money ball at?  
KLAY THOMPSON: You've got to go in the corners.  That's the easiest shot for the three-point shooter.   
 Q.  Any worry about being cold early and running up against the clock late?  
KLAY THOMPSON: A little bit, yeah.  I haven't really thought strategy for the Three-Point Contest.  I just kind of go in there and let it fly.  I don't think about it.   
 Q.  You're not setting shot charts and breaking them down?  
KLAY THOMPSON: No, I'm just trying to get into one of those zones and try to do that for two rounds.   
 Q.  Your team's goal is to win another championship, but if you do win 73 games or more, what will your reaction be the night you break the record?  
KLAY THOMPSON: It will be a great feat, just because growing up as a sports fan, that's one of those records you doubt you'll touch.  So just being in the conversation with it is really special.  That means we're reaching great heights, and especially for this organization.  Obviously, it doesn't mean a thing if you don't win the ring, but if we can do both of those things, it's got to be one of the most special seasons in sports history.  It will be such a privilege to be a part of.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT