NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 10, 2015
Klay Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   The pressure is on you guys now, one game down.   How urgent is it for you to get a win heading back to San Francisco?   
KLAY THOMPSON:   I don't get it.   What do you mean?   I think we all know it's really urgent.   No one wants to go down 3‑1.   But it won't be the end.  
   
 Q.   What went wrong in the last game for you guys?   
KLAY THOMPSON:   Defense was a problem.   We figured out what we had to do in that second half.   Being down 20, that is a hard hole to climb out of.   But the other day we did put ourselves in a great position, and we started to play with the same urgency we did, and the last 17 minutes that we came back, we put the pressure on them in the second half.   We've got to do that from the jump tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   They said something about figuring out how to attack their pick‑and‑rolls in the fourth quarter.   Was it tactical differences that made a difference?   
KLAY THOMPSON:   Yeah, David Lee made a huge difference.   He came in there, and he made them pay with their double step.   He catches the ball at the free‑throw line, and he's so skilled he would either finish at the rim or find an open man.   So we'll watch tape, and honestly I learned from what David did.   He did a great job being aggressive.  
   
 Q.   Is it the thought that David will be a bigger part of the initial stages of Game 4?   
KLAY THOMPSON:   I mean, it's hard for me to say, but he's definitely going to probably make an impact.   I loved how he stayed ready and he came out with great intensity.   So that's what a true professional does.  
   
 Q.   Why do you think the Warriors are more effective playing the small?   
KLAY THOMPSON:   I think we spread it out and it's hard for them to put so much pressure on Steph at the top of the key.   We're going to play small, and he's got five guys up there that are able to handle the ball (indiscernible).  
   
 Q.   How hard is it to pace the game against the Cavs team?   
KLAY THOMPSON:   They definitely want to play slow.   Three games now we've played at their tempo, and we've got to change that tomorrow.   Four transition points is not enough.   We need at least double digits with that.   
We've just got to, like I said, be the aggressors.   If we do that, I'm not worried about defense.   Our defense has been there the whole year.   I mean, we've been in this position before, and we'll figure it out.   I have all the confidence in the world in everyone on this team.  
   
 Q.   Is it an effort thing or a strategic thing?   
KLAY THOMPSON:   It's a strategic thing.   I think the effort's there, definitely, because when you hold a team to the low 40 percentage or whatever, I don't think it's the effort, outrebounding Steph, that was just probably strategy thing and it's an execution thing on offense.  
   
 Q.   It's obvious that you guys want to ease Curry's responsibilities.   But specifically how would you like to do this, especially in Game 4 which is so critical now?   
KLAY THOMPSON:   Other than Steph, we've got to make shots.   We've got to make plays and be aggressive with the ball in hand.   Because we have four guys out there are a threat, you can't focus on one man.   For us it's just to keep Steph (indiscernible), like I said, make open shots and shoot with confidence and play aggressive.   If we do that, we're the best team in the league.  
   
 Q.   Two straight games Dellavedova has made an impact.   What's he doing to distract you guys a little bit?   
KLAY THOMPSON:   He made some big shots, obviously.   Open shots.   Big threes, big rebounds.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT