NBA FINALS: WARRIORS VS. RAPTORS
May 30, 2019
Klay Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Toronto - 118, Golden State - 109   
 Q.  Defensively you looked like you were pretty successful in limiting Kawhi Leonard, what was your thinking or strategy regarding that?  And how do you think the Raptors were able to take advantage of that of whatever that strategy was?  
KLAY THOMPSON: I mean, Kawhi didn't have his best game to his standards but other guys stepped up.  Siakam obviously had a game of his playoff life.  Give him credit, running the floor.  So we'll have to get back on defense next game and really limit their transition points, make them beat us in the half court.   
Yeah, we did a good job of limiting Kawhi, but it's not Kawhi Leonard, it's the Raptors.  So we'll go back to the drawing board and see what we can do better for Sunday.   
 Q.  Steve mentioned that you guys are not that familiar with the Raptors, you don't see them a lot.  How surprising was what Siakam's athleticism enabled him to do in transition tonight?  
KLAY THOMPSON: I mean, he's very long and athletic.  He's one of the better finishers in the paint in the game, so I know we'll step up to the challenge on Sunday to limit his opportunities, which a lot of them came in transition because he was sprinting the floor.   
But yeah, we're not very familiar with this team but that's no excuse.  We still got to come out here.  Our goal was to get one, and it's still on the table for us.  So I know we'll respond like the champions we are.   
 Q.  You guys, your DNA as a team is to ignite with big runs, points in bunches.  You weren't able to do that tonight, really at any stretch.  Why do you think that may have been?  
KLAY THOMPSON: I mean, we caught the three with about seven minutes left or eight, nine minutes left, whatever it was.  And give their defense credit, we didn't get too many transition opportunities and we're at our best when we're running and playing with the time of randomness that kind of has teams scrambling.  And it was there a little bit tonight.   
But like I said before, our goal was to get one, so we got some tape now and we'll go to the drawing board and we'll come back and be much better on Sunday.   
MODERATOR: All right, thank you, Klay.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT