NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 3, 2015
Klay Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Klay, with everything you've been through the last couple days and whatnot, how excited and how anxious are you to get back out there tomorrow night?   
KLAY THOMPSON:   I'm really anxious.   I'm a little nervous just because this is something you've been looking forward to your whole life, but more anxious though.   I know right when I get on the court there will be some nerves the first couple of minutes.   That's natural.   It's been like that for every series I've ever played in.   But you shake it off after the first couple minutes and you realize it's a game you've been doing your whole life and you're here for a reason.   
So I'm really excited.   Yeah, that's pretty much it.   It's a surreal moment, and we're going to embrace it.   I mean, we've worked so hard for this.   It's awesome.  
   
 Q.   I wanted to ask what this past week has been like.   I mean, from the moment you suffered the concussion, and were you afraid that maybe this moment might not be here?   
KLAY THOMPSON:   I was confident I was going to play.   I knew I had to pass protocol, but I've been hit in the head before, and, honestly, I felt really good the second day.   I had some nagging headaches that night, but when I got some good sleep and some good rest I was all right.   So I really knew that Game 1 was never in jeopardy.   
But at the same time, it's not cool seeing your name in the headlines saying is he unsure or whatnot, just because I want to play so bad.   You know, it's the NBA Finals.   There is something wrong with you if you don't want to get out there and work everything to get back on the court.   
So for me, and it was almost like not playing wasn't an option.   I just can't wait.   I knew I was going to be all right though.   I'd taken hits to the head before, and that one looked kind of rough, but after a few days, I felt back to normal.  
   
 Q.   You guys are such a rhythm and flow team.   How do you think you handled the week off in between the series?   
KLAY THOMPSON:   I think we handled it great, honestly.   These last few days we really upped the intensity in practice, and got some great five‑on‑five.   Our scout team did a great job pushing us like they have been the whole year.   That's why they've been ready every game and come in and make an impact.   
I think we handled it well.   It ended up being a blessing for me to have a week off and get my head right.   Yeah, I think we handled it the best way we can possibly handle it.   We all worked really hard to try to keep our rhythm as best as possible.  
   
 Q.   LeBron has been missing a couple of his sidekicks at times during the playoffs and yet he's still playing at a high level.   What's your impression of what he's been able to do to elevate that team?   
KLAY THOMPSON:   Well, he's done that with every team he's been on.   Yeah, he's been missing some pieces, but you've got to give them a lot of respect.   Other guys on their team have stepped up and they've stepped up when their number was called.   
So, obviously, we're going to try to do everything to slow down LeBron, but you've got to limit their role players and the impact they make, because they've won a lot of games, especially in the postseason.   He's been doing it five straight Finals.   You've got to give him a lot of credit.   He's been doing it the last five years.   
So it's going to be a great challenge for us.   Like Steve says, it's going to be fun.   It's pretty unique, we've played an All‑NBA guy every round, and here's another challenge for us, and we're going to embrace it.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned you played All‑NBA guys all the time.   Is there more emphasis?   I would think LeBron is probably the biggest challenge, and rightfully so at this stage.   Is there any extra emphasis on what you can or cannot do with this guy?   
KLAY THOMPSON:   Yeah, I mean, you know, we try to play to his weaknesses.   He doesn't have a lot.   But we try to make him as uncomfortable as possible.   I think each round has prepared us so well.   
Like I said before, you know, there was a great player on every team we played each round.   James gave us a ton of problems, Anthony Davis, the big guys in Memphis.   So we've got a guy who can see the floor.   We all know what he can do pretty much anything out there.   
So for us, we've just got to‑‑ I can't give you all my secrets, man, but you'll see tomorrow.   It's going to be fun.   I mean, the teams are going to feel each other out for the first game or so, so we're excited, man.   We can't wait to get out there.  
   
 Q.   At times they've used Iman Shumpert on the opposing point guard, and they may try that in this this series as well, which may put a smaller player on you in Kyrie.   If that happens, is there an emphasis on to get down low a little bit?   Will you change your game based on if you're going against a smaller defender?   
KLAY THOMPSON:   Not really.   I still try to hunt the shots I've been getting all year.   That's what got us here.   So for me, I don't really pay to attention to who is on me, because if I play within the offense, move without the ball, play a great flow and cut hard and stuff like that, I'm going to get open shots and make plays for others.   So is Steph.   We'll make adjustments.   
I mean, Steph had big guys guard him the last three rounds, and I think he's done a great job all year being able to create space and make plays for everyone.   So for us, you can't make it an individual battle.   You've got to just do it as a team and we'll make great shots.   Doesn't matter who is shooting, because we've got so many weapons.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT