NBA DRAFT
June 23, 2011
Klay Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 KLAY THOMPSON (No. 11)
  GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS 
  
  Q. Clay, your thoughts about being drafted by the Warriors?   
 KLAY THOMPSON: It's really humbling, just because I know how good the organization of the Warriors is and I can tell they are going in the right direction. Been watching basketball all my life, especially growing up in California. Just so thankful for this opportunity, I can't describe it. I can't wait to go up there and play for Coach Jackson; he's going to be demanding but he's going to get the most out of it.  
  
  Q. What are your thoughts on playing with Stephen Curry and what kind of backcourt do you think you guys can form?  
 KLAY THOMPSON: I'm extremely excited about it, because I see him play a lot and that kid can pass the ball. With us in the backcourt and me on the wing, I just think we'll be able to space the floor so well together, because you both shoot that ball. I'm excited to get up there and play with a point guard like him, because he has a good knowledge of the game and I know he'll get the most out of me, so I'm excited.  
  
  Q. Talk about what you heard from the Golden State Warriors in this process and how cool is it going to be for you to stay in California?   
 KLAY THOMPSON: It's too good to be true almost to stay close to him, especially with all of the family on the West Coast. I felt like they had a strong interest in me, just from when they saw me work out in Los Angeles and when they brought me up to Golden State and I had a pretty good workout in front of them.  
 I felt a strong vibe from them and I'm glad they stuck with it, because they made a good choice and I just want to prove that to them. I'm just really happy right now.  
  
  Q. A lot is said about Golden State's offense and how much firepower they have with that, but defensively what do you think they bring to the table that can help them with that end of the floor?   
 KLAY THOMPSON: I think, you know, there's room for improvement for me, but I've worked really hard my three years at Washington State and I think I just bring a big off-guard at 6-7 with his length that can even guard point guards at times, if I keep working on my foot speed. So just try to use my length to try to bother those smaller 2-guards in the league, so I'll keep working with that.   
  
  Q. Obviously your ability to shoot the ball really separates you from a lot of other guys, especially with your range and size, but your basketball acumen, coming from a basketball family and your ability to pass the ball, also, as an off-guard really separates you. Can you just talk about your ability to blend with Stephen Curry and not only to score, but to find other guys and that basketball IQ that a coach like Coach Jackson would appreciate?  
 KLAY THOMPSON: I think it would be a great asset for the Warriors, because I'm an unselfish player, I feel like. I can score but I can pass the ball, as well. I'll be out there just playing in the team concept and do whatever they need me to do, shoot, play make, whatever they need me to do. I'm a smart basketball player and I think I'll fit in pretty good with the team structure.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT