UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 21, 2009
Hunter Lawrence
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. What did Suh say? 
 HUNTER LAWRENCE: I heard he said a lot of stuff. I don't know though.

 Q. You didn't hear any of it? 
 HUNTER LAWRENCE: I was probably 15 yards away, and I saw Huey and a bunch of guys pushing them out. 

 Q. You didn't hear anything? 
 HUNTER LAWRENCE: I didn't hear what he said.

 Q. Mack said he said some stuff to the offensive line that you can block Suh. Did you hear that? 
 HUNTER LAWRENCE: I saw it on the highlights. I saw him talking to him. But I was in my own world. So I was just trying to focus. Not really listen to anybody, so. 

 Q. Did you think or hope to get a chance like that again? 
 HUNTER LAWRENCE: I never thought I would, honestly. I was really happy for him. I never envied him or anything like that for getting the game winning kick. I've never really thought about having the opportunity, because it's never come up. And it did though, but I'm happy, so happy we're going.

 Q. I think it was two weeks before the game we had asked you you've never been in that situation?
 HUNTER LAWRENCE: Correct.

 Q. You're in that situation. You said it it's harder in practice. Now that you've gone through it, is it really harder in practice? 
 HUNTER LAWRENCE: I've had some pressure situations in practice, but not quite to that one. So it was nice. 

 Q. Now that you've gotten the practice in in the Big 12, would you want that same opportunity in the national title game? 
 HUNTER LAWRENCE: If it comes up and we've got a shot to win, sure, you know. As long as we win, you know, I'll be excited and happy?

 Q. You tell him to have a good day? 
 HUNTER LAWRENCE: I already told him get ready.

 Q. (No microphone)?
 HUNTER LAWRENCE: I don't know. We'll see what he comes up with. Never know with him.

 Q. Because it is the top two defenses or two of the top defenses in the country, does that keep your focus on the fact that it might be a field goal, you know, or something of that nature that decides it? 
 HUNTER LAWRENCE: Going into games like this with such good defenses, you kind of assume that you're going to have a few field goal opportunities with games like this, they're probably going to be pretty close. You just have to focus and realize that it might come down to you and just be Reed for it.

 Q. There is a lot of talk about guys being physical and intimidating. How do kickers stay sharp with all the time you've got in between? What do you do? You can't go out there and be physical, what do you do all that time? How do you stay focused and sharp? 
 HUNTER LAWRENCE: You can always just do some drills. You know, normal drills, keep kicking. You don't want to over kick or lose your legs. This is a good time for us to kind of get our legs back underneath us and get a little bit of a break.

 Q. So you go back to two-a-days after that? 
 HUNTER LAWRENCE: Yeah.

 Q. So in real life they cover you and stuff, and you had actually lost your starting job -- you were going through a tough time there. Talk about your feelings and your thoughts? How disappointing that was. But at the same time you had to keep on going, and had some good help with some good people. 
 HUNTER LAWRENCE: Yeah, I got some good guys to be behind me and mentor me along the way. 
 One thing about choosing a place like Texas to come to, you realize everybody behind you and in front of you. Our two deep can play a lot of places. That's something I realized. You have to work hard to be able to play here. So, you know, I just put in the time and effort and got the opportunity. 

 Q. How excited are you? 
 HUNTER LAWRENCE: I'm excited. You know, it's fun. A lot of fun. I got a lot of texts from everybody congratulating and everything, so that was cool. It's been a dream come true going to the National Championship. I'm real excited about it. It's been four years for me. 

 Q. She brought up the kick. The fact in the '05 Game one was missed right. Do you practice the situation where you're trying to run out on the field?
 HUNTER LAWRENCE: Yeah, every Thursday we do a kick with 12 seconds left where everybody's on the sidelines and we run, we have to do a hurry-up field goal.

 Q. Have you been going since the Nebraska game? 
 HUNTER LAWRENCE: I have not.

 Q. Your reaction from former teammates, buddies, folks back home? 
 HUNTER LAWRENCE: Yeah, I talked to a lot of my coaches and everything from back home. I'm excited to get it back. I'm going to my high school on Wednesday, talk to them, hang out with them for a little bit. But they've all been supportive the whole way. Everybody's been real nice.

 Q. Talk about the session or did you just go visit the coaches? 
 HUNTER LAWRENCE: I'm not sure if they're still in session or not. I'm probably going to go hang out with the coaches for a little bit.

 Q. About what time? 
 HUNTER LAWRENCE: I'm not sure. 

 Q. One of the guys on Alabama, Eric Anderson, do you know any of the same people, common friends, anything along those lines? 
 HUNTER LAWRENCE: I'm not sure. I don't know him personally or anything like that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT