NASCAR SPRINT CUP SERIES: FEDERATED AUTO PARTS 400
September 10, 2016
Chris Buescher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. What does this mean to you and what does this mean to this team?  
CHRIS BUESCHER: It's obviously a big night for Front Row Motorsports and Bob Jenkins for a small team like we are to be able to pull it off and get that win at Pocono and find ourselves in the Chase right now. It's pretty special. It was a crazy race. I can't believe how many cautions we had. We got involved in one of the accidents, had a tire go down, just a very eventful day. Just so proud to be here. It's a home race for CSX. I had a Bryan Park shop visit right down the road early this weekend when we got out here. It's cool to have them out here. All the help we've got from Love's Travel Stops this year and Roush Yates Engines and Ford and everybody that's working so hard to get us here. It's been a wild ride. We've had some great support from Roush Fenway at the same time. Everything worked out the way we needed it to to pull this night off the way we needed to. It's hard going that slow. When we were finally making progress and getting the car balanced better. We were to the point where we felt like we could start driving forward, and they said, we don't need to. There was just no risk at this point.  
   
 Q. There was some tense moments for sure. It's one thing to get into the Chase. What can you do now that you're in the playoffs?  
CHRIS BUESCHER: Now we talk a different strategy. We get a lot of things changing now. Just really cool to be a part of it at this point. We look at this first round, and we want to make it past that round. We want to move through the Chase, and then we can reevaluate from there. If we can keep going farther and improve our program each and every weekend, that's always going to be what we're aiming to do. That's the plan. We've got to do and try and progress through the Chase and see what we can pull off.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT