NHL ENTRY DRAFT
June 22, 1996
Boyd Devereaux
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Yeah, I was very surprised, just saw my friends already been drafted and they say you already going to that team this year, really expect it and I'm surprised and really, really happy to be with Edmonton.  It's a great organization.  It's great.

You know, obviously, you know, pretty successful organization.  They honestly know what they're doing.  I couldn't be happier.  I heard a lot of great things.


Q.  You had an interview with them on Friday?

Yeah, the first one.  That's the first time I've ever really had contact with them, I thought it went pretty well, so...


Q.  You thought it went well.

Did you think that when you left there?  Did you have any idea?

Well, I probably - one thing I learned from going to the meetings you walk out and have a pretty good feeling about what happened and you talk to your buddy and he has the same feeling after he went into the meeting, so they keep you pretty much in the dark, so, it's made to stay pretty  exciting.


Q.  How would you rank this in your career performance?

Yeah, for sure, to date this is the most exciting day of hockey of my life for sure.  Yeah, it's a huge stepping stone.  It's great.  It's incredible.

Uhmm, geez, you know, I was, you know, what they're saying about the draft is really it got pretty type in after the top three picks or so, so I was totally in the dark about where I was going to go and I'm very happy it turned out this way, I felt incredible.

Well my went strength has to improve.  I have to learn to shoot more instead of drift off quite so much.  So those are probably the two main things I have to work on.


Q.  You played center your whole junior career?

Yep, always been a centerman.

Yeah, I'll play whatever to play the big leagues.  I'll do whatever they tell me.


Q.  Do you feel like you need another two years or two years to --

Well, you know, I can't really say, you know, whether I need a year or not, I know I'm going to, you know, to go to pro camp and I'm going out on top make the team.  Whether that's realistic or not that's too much to the coaches or GMA to decide whether I need another year of junior  year or not.  I'm just going to go out and do my best to make the team.

Actually, yeah, there's two more home town boys that are in the Oiler organization.  Mike Watt who was drafted in the second round a couple of years ago and Red McInerney (ph) so yeah, there's a lot of buddies out there actually.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT