MLB WORLD SERIES: NATIONALS VS ASTROS
October 21, 2019
Dave Martinez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Can you list your rotation as it stands right now.
DAVE MARTINEZ: It's going to be Max Scherzer tomorrow, Stras will pitch Game 2, and not decided on Game 3 yet.
Q. You've had a few days off to really formulate your game plan. What did you guys do in the break? Did you work out? Did you give your players time off?
DAVE MARTINEZ: We worked out. We had a day off in between but we worked out. Yesterday the weather was miserable in Washington, and we had a scheduled workout. I didn't think we were going to be able to do anything. The boys came out. We practiced in the rain. We had a sim game in the rain. The weather was cold. They were all into it. Sanchez threw, a couple of our bullpen guys threw the hitters, we had a good time.
They're all in. They're ready. These guys are excited to be here, and let's go have some fun.
Q. Who is going to DH here, do you think? And any roster tweaks do you expect?
DAVE MARTINEZ: I don't expect much, no. We're going to meet here again. We met once, we're going to meet again after the workout tonight and finalize stuff.
I think at this point either Howie -- Howie will probably DH, yeah.
Q. When you have a DH, so there's no pinch-hitting for the pitcher's spot, how much harder does it make your job of potentially taking Max out of the game? And how hard is it to map out his start?
DAVE MARTINEZ: Yeah, I mean, as you know throughout the year my conversation with Max goes beyond saying. I have a pretty good indication when he's done. We talk a lot during games.
But knowing that we don't have to pinch-hit for him, we can keep him in the game longer. But that all depends on how Max is doing, always. Like I said, come the 6th, 7th, 8th inning, we're in constant communication with him and see how he's doing.
Q. You mentioned no starter yet for Game 3. Is that in any way because you want to see if you need Corbin out of the bullpen before then?
DAVE MARTINEZ: We shall see.
Q. More broadly based, what's sort of your philosophy about using starters in relief for this series?
DAVE MARTINEZ: We're going to play every game to go 1-0, as I talked about all year long.
With that being said, if there's a situation that we feel like a starter could benefit on us capitalizing and winning a game, then so be it. But there's seven games, so we've got to be very careful of how we do things.
Q. After that workout yesterday in the rain, do you have a sense that you guys still have an emotional momentum going off of the NLCS?
DAVE MARTINEZ: I truly believe that these guys are fired up to be here. We played a lot of unbelievable games this year. We've come a long way.
So I think they're excited. Like I said, excited to be here and ready to play. They looked good yesterday, and this whole week. I joked around after we clinched, I told them, I said, Hey, I'm going to give you guys a day off. And they all laughed, especially Anthony. He said, Just one? And I said, Yeah. I said, Our work is not over. We've got to come back, and we schedule workouts the next four days and these guys were all in. They got their work in. We did a lot of stuff in the training room. They did a lot of stuff in the weight room, strength conditioning, a lot of running activities, and they hit. They hit a bunch. So we're ready to go.
Q. What are the challenges in facing Gerrit Cole and how much were you able to see of him so far this postseason?
DAVE MARTINEZ: What I've seen of him, he's really good. But we've known that, even in his Pittsburgh days, faced him a lot. He's really good. If you look at this whole series, both sides got unbelievable starting pitching.
So it's going it to be -- like I said, it's going to be a lot of fun. I just want our club to go out there and have fun and play the game like we're capable of playing, and kind of focus on the little things.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT