NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: NATIONALS VS CARDINALS
October 11, 2019
Dave Martinez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Nationals - 2, Cardinals - 0
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What most impressed you about the way Aníbal was throwing tonight?
DAVE MARTINEZ: Oh, he had great tempo, good rhythm, but he pounded the zone. In, out, used all his pitches effectively.
Q. So much has been made about the big three, as it should, but given how Aníbal threw against the Dodgers in the first round and obviously tonight, does he deserve his due now?
DAVE MARTINEZ: I've said it all year, when he came back off the IL, everybody talks about Stras, Scherzer, Corbin, I mean Aníbal's been, he's a big part of why we are here too. He's pitched unbelievable since coming over the IL, so he's a big part of our success and man he goes out there and he gives us a chance to win every time he's out there.
Q. How big was it to have him go seven and two third and have Doo get the four outs given that Hudson was not here and your bullpen is even more rested with the other guys?
DAVE MARTINEZ: It was huge. He picked us up today big time. I don't claim to be superstitious, but when you got a no hitter, I was freezing my butt off and didn't want to put a jacket on and I stayed with this, just this sweat shirt the whole game. And then all of a sudden we have a shut out, Doo comes in, still didn't want to put a jacket on, so it worked out. But like I said, that was huge, just to go from him straight to Doolittle and Doolittle getting four outs was big.
Q. To follow-up on Hudson, have you heard anything further and do you know if he'll be here tomorrow?
DAVE MARTINEZ: Yeah, he's got a 6 o'clock flight, he'll be here for the game.
Q. With Suzuki out tonight how big was Yan Gomes behind the plate and what did you think of his performance calling a good game?
DAVE MARTINEZ: Huge, it was huge. They had a great game plan together. He very seldom caught Sánchez this year but he was unbelievable today, really was, so I'm proud of him, he stepped up big, and it's been like that, he's been big. Suzuki went down and he for the last three weeks or something and he's been huge. So I'm proud of him.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT