SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 2, 2007
Alliesha Easley
Armintie Price
Carol Ross
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:  Now joined bay Ole Miss head coach Carol Ross. 
 Coach, open up with a comment. 
 COACH ROSS:  Well, obviously it wasn't our best effort in terms of how we played.  You know, I wouldn't trade how we played that last 20 minutes for anything because it really -- that's really the team we are. 
 How they competed, how they fought, just kept finding ways.  That's been the trademark of this team really all year long.  That's why we've been able to do things that people say we couldn't do, it's because of their tenacity, their scrap, their passion. 
 You know, I love being their coach when they play that way.  It's really a treat.  I think certainly the fans were able to see how hard these kids played. 
 LSU, you have to give them a lot of credit.  Defensively they were very good.  It was very difficult for us to get any good looks.  Certainly the ones we got, we didn't hit enough of 'em.  It was just a good hard-fought game. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Questions. 

 Q.  The way you play defense, the way they play defense, you had to figure -- did you figure going into this game it wasn't going to be in the 70s like the game in Oxford?  Did you anticipate a tough defensive game like this? 
 COACH ROSS:  We always think big.  We don't go in low balling anything.  At the same time, you know, so much of our offense comes off our defense. 
 We had a bad streak in that first half where all of LSU's point were coming off the foul line, in transition where we had some breakdowns.  But we really felt good defensively.  When we got in five-on-five situations we were guarding very well. 
 We didn't turn them over enough.  We needed to create turnovers to create offense for us.  We knew that would be difficult.  It was difficult the first time we played them.  I think we forced maybe 20 turnovers the first time.  I think we only got 13 or so this time.  It wasn't quite enough to help generate enough points for us. 

 Q.  Alliesha and Armintie, talk about after playing yesterday, late in the first half, you looked like you were maybe getting a lot tired.  Second half looked more energetic.  Talk about being able to turn it on there. 
 ARMINTIE PRICE:  I think we just started to get it together.  I don't think we was too much tired.  You're never too tired to win a championship.  We just started off kind of slow in the first half.  In the second half we knew we had to pick it up to compete better and play harder. 
 ALLIESHA EASLEY:  Basically it's the same thing.  I mean, you got to go out there and fight.  We just had to go out there and do what we came here to do. 

 Q.  Armintie, could you talk about what the focus for your team is going to be at this point moving forward? 
 ARMINTIE PRICE:  Well, hopefully get a bid to the NCAA tournament, take one game at a time. 

 Q.  Armintie, what was LSU doing defensively that was tough? 
 ARMINTIE PRICE:  Playing good defense.  They all played team defense.  Sagging off a little bit on us, making us take outside shots, kind of just having active hands. 
 But in the second half we kind of took it to 'em and tried to become the aggressor. 

 Q.  Armintie, on that last possession, last offensive possession that you had there, did you get to look at the basket you were looking for? 
 ARMINTIE PRICE:  I did.  I got a pretty good look at the jump shot.  I just didn't knock it down. 

 Q.  Coach, surely you'll be in the tournament.  You don't have to worry about that.  What kind of seeding do you think this team deserves?  What kind of trouble do you think you can give to a team you might play in the tournament? 
 COACH ROSS:  Seeding, based on my experiences, I'm sure we're not going to get a fair seed in terms of what we're capable of versus maybe our record.  The upside of this team is pretty good.  We've shown that by beating LSU, Vanderbilt earlier.  But at the same time, you know, we've lost some games that are regretful, for sure. 
 You know, I would like to think somewhere around, you know, 5 or 6.  But I'm sure they're going to send me a letter saying it's probably 7, 8 or 9.  But it doesn't matter, we'll play.  Can't control those people.  I've tried for years.  Doesn't work. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT