NCAA MEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: TULSA
March 17, 2017
Bill Self
Josh Jackson
Landen Lucas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Kansas - 100, UC Davis - 62   
COACH SELF: It was good to play.  We haven't played much in the last couple of weeks, obviously.  I think only one game in 13 days.  But we were a little nervous, I think, early, anxious, and they certainly made it very difficult to score early on.  And then I thought from about the 12-minute mark of the first half, you know, the lid came off the basket, and I thought we executed very well and performed pretty well.   
 Q.  Josh, how devastating can the lob dunk be?  You guys had a few of those tonight and seemed to be you kind of take them out of the game a little bit anytime you did that?  
JOSH JACKSON: Well, it's something that we practice a lot.  We've got some great athletes on the team, so just played to our athleticism.   
 Q.  It was 21-all for a minute.  What was going through your mind and what if any adjustments do you make?  
COACH SELF: I don't think we really made any adjustments.  We just started making shots, and they missed some decent looks, but I thought we really guarded them the last ten minutes of the first half or so.  And we pretty much got good looks on our end.  The ball started going in the hole.  And it seemed like it happened pretty fast, 21-all, and then the next thing you know we're up 28, I think, if I'm not mistaken.  So that was a pretty good ten-minute stretch for us.   
 Q.  For Josh, just talk about getting back out there and kind of overcoming and putting behind you all the off-the-court stuff that you've had to go through, just focusing, and how good it felt to play.  
JOSH JACKSON: I've been really excited to play for a while now, been itching to play for about a week and a half.  So just coming out there today felt really good to get back out there with the guys.  When I step out there on that court, I'm really not thinking about anything else but basketball, something I've been doing for most of my life.  It's just a game and I'm going to just play it.   
 Q.  Landen, was this perhaps this team's most complete effort or best game of the season so far in some ways?  
LANDEN LUCAS: In some ways, yeah, I think we did a pretty good job the second half extending the lead.  And we hadn't done that very well throughout the season.  So it was good to kind of come out the second half and continue what we had started at the end of the first half.   
We couldn't get off to a better start.  That was just defense by them.  We were just missing shots.  But overall pretty good.   
 Q.  You started that run after they got a technical.  Sometimes momentum goes in favor of the team that gets a technical but in this case you seemed to take it.  Was that just coincidence or something about that?  
COACH SELF: No.  I think it was a coincidence.  I think we were up 2 when the T was called and that put us up 4.  I could be off a little bit.  I don't know that that keyed anything.  Certainly the timing was probably a coincidence that we played our best ball after that.   
 Q.  Bill, when you're in a tournament setting like this and you're going to have a difficult game in a couple of days and you look at the scoreboard and it's 35 or it's 40 points the difference, where does your mind go?  How do you finish these games out as the head coach?  I saw your reaction when Tyler's three pointer went in.  You seemed to be enjoying that in particular but just in general where does your mind go?  
COACH SELF: I didn't probably enjoy the first eight minutes or so much because I was a little tight, probably like everybody else was.  But I enjoyed the whole game.   
But the last five minutes or so I was certainly thinking about how are we going to prepare tonight and moving forward.  I think the guys know this.  I mean, there's never a lock winning the game.  You don't take it for granted at all.  And we played --   
I mean, I think UCD should be congratulated on the year they've had and great attitude and unbelievable effort and everything, but they got us on a night when we were pretty good.  And when the lead did get up there, I wasn't thinking about anything other than getting guys out of the game and kind of piecing together the last six or seven minutes just to get ready for Sunday.   
 Q.  Coach, just talk about what it meant to you to see and to have your son out there and to see him hit that big three?  
COACH SELF: You know, I've been spoiled because I've had a chance to be around him every day for the last five years.  And you can't make up for lost time, but that's certainly something that's been a blessing for me.  And you know, to see him out there and have some success is always good, but whether the ball goes in or if it doesn't go in, it really doesn't change anything from my perspective.  It probably does from his.  But that was nice to see, and the guys were all happy for him because they know he's paid a pretty big price over the last five years.   
MODERATOR: Anything else for the gentlemen from Kansas?  Okay.  Thank you very much.  We'll see you Sunday.   
COACH SELF: Okay.  Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT