BOB HOPE CLASSIC
January 22, 2010
Shane Bertsch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 3-under par 69 today, three birdies on the last four holes. How did you feel about your round?
 SHANE BERTSCH: I felt it ended on a good note, so I feel good. Someone asked me on the tee if I thought there was going to be low scores today and I thought about giving him a smart ass comment, but, yeah, there's definitely going to be low scores. 
 So sometimes 69 is not that great, but all in all, getting the birdies at the end, it feels pretty good. 

 Q. You had to sit out yesterday after being the first round leader, how do you feel like that affected you? Were you a little bit antsy to get back out yesterday and how did you kind of pass your time?
 SHANE BERTSCH: I can't say I was really antsy. No one wanted to play in that weather yesterday. We just had to deal with waiting around. 
 I was a little worried about getting to actually play today. Not that my game would have got rusty or anything, but just waiting around two days and all the uncertainty. 
 But everything turned out good and I think the TOUR made -- I was kind of wondering the decision they made at first, but I think they made an unbelievable decision with taking the amateurs away. I feel bad for them, but then putting them back in, I was really glad to hear that.
 I saw some of my partners from the first day and I asked them, I said, "I'm really sorry you don't get to play." And they said it was just today. So I was really happy for that. 

 Q. How were the conditions out there today as far as you were concerned?
 SHANE BERTSCH: They really weren't bad at all. It was real scoreable. The course played longer than normal, but besides that, I only took one casual water drop all day on the last hole. And you could find an area within one club length usually. There was a lot of puddles, I guess it just depended on where you were.

 Q. You talk about it being scoreable I don't know if you saw the leaderboard, but Bubba Watson was 9-under today through 12 holes. Does that surprise you or do you think just because of the conditions out there that's possible?
 SHANE BERTSCH: Oh, that's very possible. Especially when you can hit it as far as he does. The wet weather just totally plays into his favor because his ball's not going to get out of control when it hits the ground and he can just fly it his 330 and plug it and lift it, clean it, and hit wedges into every hole. And, heck, I mean, it doesn't surprise me one bit. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT