SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 14, 2006
Shane Bertsch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Great day today.

SHANE BERTSCH:  Just had some good things happen, but, you know, everything is great.
Q.  If you've never been in this position, but have dreamed of being in this position for so long, how do you think you'll react on Sunday?

SHANE BERTSCH:  I'm just looking forward to it.  I was in position in a few times in '96, '97 when I had my card.  But I've been in this position on the Nationwide the last five, six years.

So I'm just going to play the golf course and, you know, see what happens.  Going to go for it.
Q.  After the last two days, was it nice to get some good scoring conditions out there today?

SHANE BERTSCH:  It sure was.  You're used to getting the wind around here, and it was a little surprising when I walked out on the range this morning and it wasn't that bad.  It still picked up a little bit, but it was nice to have little more opportunities.
Q.  Fantastic round for you today, and yet when you look up there and Chad is just going off, what's it going to take tomorrow?

SHANE BERTSCH:  Oh, probably another    depending on the wind, it will probably take another good, low round to have a chance to win, for sure.  I'd say 6 , 7 under again is what you probably need.
Q.  How aggressive can you be on this course?

SHANE BERTSCH:  You can be pretty aggressive if you're in the fairway.  If you get in the rough, it's kind of stringy and the ball can kind of go different places, but it can be pretty aggressive.  The greens are fairly receptive.  And I got a good weekend early and got to learn the grain a lot more.  So most of the greens, you can go for most of the pins if you're in a good spot.
Q.  For you, yourself, being out here after a sabbatical, what does it mean for you?

SHANE BERTSCH:  It means    I'm just so excited to get back out.  The off season this year, I was just chomping at the bit to get out.  Most guys are ready for the break and I was just ready to get going.  I played a lot, played a lot with my buddies back in Denver; want to say hi to them.  Just been looking forward to it.
Q.  Are we going to hear a lot more from you this year?

SHANE BERTSCH:  I hope so.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT