NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 16, 2012
Nick Amuchastegui
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Nick. 

Q.   When the seedings came out, did you feel like you got slapped in the face a little bit?
NICK AMUCHASTEGUI:   No, I didn't feel like I got slapped in the face.   I felt like I got the best chance to wrestle the two best guys in the bracket.   If I beat them both, come out feeling a lot better about the whole tournament. 

Q.   What do you remember about the last time you met Ruth?
NICK AMUCHASTEGUI:   I remember he was quick on his feet.   I remember I went out there and wrestled a pretty solid match.   I went out there not being afraid of anything, not being afraid of whatever the results were, just went out and wrestled and enjoyed it. 

Q.   Your thoughts about how you wrestled in this match and what the turning point was. 
NICK AMUCHASTEGUI:   What the turning point was in this match? 
When I got the first takedown, I was feeling pretty good.   Watching him on film, he looked like a kid that was tough to get to his legs.   Being able to get to him was a good feeling.

Q.   When he did tie up the match, he was riding you, he had done pretty well riding.   Were you concerned about getting away from him?
NICK AMUCHASTEGUI:   Yeah.   I knew he was good on top.   But it didn't go through my head whether I was concerned or not.   I was trying to get away from him. 
If I thought about it, I probably would have been.   I was just wrestling.

Q.   Stanford has not had a lot of national champs.   What would this mean?
NICK AMUCHASTEGUI:   I'll be the second behind Matt Gentry.   It would be a great accomplishment, yeah. 

Q.   You know Matt pretty well.   Has he been somebody that's worked with you?
NICK AMUCHASTEGUI:   Yes.   I'm real close with Matt.   We get along really well.   I have a lot of respect for him.   He helped me out a ton the first couple years I was there at school, adjusting to things because he'd been through it before. 
I have a tremendous amount of respect for him and he's helped me out a ton.

Q.   Talk about Ruth, the fact he's so effective with his cradle.   What happens there?
NICK AMUCHASTEGUI:   Yeah, you know, figure out how you want to defend it, figure out what you want to do against it, then execute it.   Go out there, just like every match, everybody is good at something.   Whoever they are, whatever it is, you got to figure out how to beat it and do it. 

Q.   You faced Ruth last year in the semifinals.   You won handily.   How confident are you?
NICK AMUCHASTEGUI:   I feel pretty good.   I don't ever think about whether I'm going to win or lose, what the chances of any single match is.   No matter who I'm wrestling, I feel confident like I have in every match in the past, that I can go out there and wrestle my best.   If I can wrestle my best, I think I'll be just fine.

Q.   Do you guys on the West Coast feel some pride when you do fine in these competitions?
NICK AMUCHASTEGUI:   Darn right we do.   It always feels good to walk around and see the guys from the West Coast doing well also.   Like another guy said, when the brackets came out, I didn't feel slapped in the face, I just giggled.   Thought I would end up this way. 
It's good to bring it to show that the West Coast does have some good things going on out there.   Stanford is a program that's going to continue to grow and get better and better. 

Q.   What did you learn last year from being in the finals?
NICK AMUCHASTEGUI:   I learned never to be defensive.   I learned to go out and get to my attacks and keep wrestling offensively all the time, not take a backseat to anybody no matter how tough they are. 
He was a heck of a tough kid.   It was a mistake that I kind of sat back a little bit for the first two minutes and planned on playing a little defense and weathering the storm. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, Nick. 
NICK AMUCHASTEGUI:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT