NCAA WOMEN'S COLLEGE WORLD SERIES
May 28, 2015
Cheridan Hawkins
Janie Takeda
Mike White
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  UCLA 7 - Oregon - 1

THE MODERATOR: We're joined by Oregon head coach Mike White, student-athletes Cheridan Hawkins and Janie Takeda.  Coach, general comments about the game.COACH WHITE: Obviously congratulations to UCLA.  It's good to see at least one Pac-12 school go through right now. Obviously not the way we kind of wrote it up.  But UCLA were opportunistic and they had opportunities, hit the ball hard the second innings there, we kind of settled down, got into a game where it could have gone either way for quite a while.  I don't think the score, 7-1, really tells the story of the game.  It was a lot closer than that game.  They just happened to get that big break in, I think, it was the sixth innings and kind of blow it up a little bit. What I'm really proud about our ladies, they never quit.  They keep trying, keep trying.  And just the game comes down to inches, as I told the team before.  Just didn't go our way today.  So the big thing for us now is bouncing back and getting ready to play Alabama.THE MODERATOR: Questions?Q. Coach, talk about being in the moment and then moving on to the next game.COACH WHITE: Well, yeah, at this stage, it really comes down to again a little bit of luck.  And you have the talent there.  We had the talent.  We didn't get the luck tonight.  UCLA played very well.  Excellent defense.  Made some great plays out there.  Ally Carda made some great pitches.  But that's the story of the game.  That's what makes this game great; you don't know what's going to happen. Now we have to come out, rebound, get after Alabama.  And you have to play for our life, so to speak.  We'll make sure that we're not going home Saturday.  And we look to fight another day.Q. Coach, how do you keep everybody kind of focused and locked in during a weather delay like that?COACH WHITE: Well, in Oregon it rains every now and then.  So we're kind of used to that.  That wasn't a problem.  In fact, it was good for our team.  I thought the team came back and it was a 0-0 game for the next four and a half innings.  I thought we bounced back pretty well after that. As I said, we hit the ball hard.  We really hit the ball hard.  I don't know if you noticed the radar game, (Ally) Carda was hitting 71 there a couple times.  She was pumped.  But I thought we did a really good job.  Like I tell you, a few inches either way, we could have had some runs up on the board.Q. Janie, the play in the first where you get thrown out, you hit a ball really hard with runners on I think your next time up.  Any one of those opportunities stick out the most where you think, hey, if we could have just got that one to go our way, it might have gone a different way?JANIE TAKEDA: Yeah, I mean, you can go over the game thousands of times in your head and think about what could have happened, what you could have done differently.  I think the most important thing is to take the positives away, obviously reflect on any mistakes I made and fix them the next time I step on the field.  Yeah.Q. Cheridan, first can you talk about the two pitches in the second inning that went out of the park; and then secondly, knowing your hitters and how well they can get you back in the game, what was your mindset from that point forward?CHERIDAN HAWKINS: I think with the home runs, I felt really aggressive.  And they're good hitters and they make adjustments and I think that I felt confident in those pitches I threw and I felt like I attacked the zone well.  They hit the ball.  They're a good hitting team. I think for offense, I didn't ever lose hope that we wouldn't hit.  They've had my back so many times and sometimes it just doesn't go our way.  And like Coach White said, we did hit the ball really hard quite a few times and it just didn't fall for us.  And that's all right.  And we'll get it next time.Q. Cheridan, you have been tough to beat two times in a row, been a couple of years since that happened, why do you is think that.  And does it give you confidence going forward you can bounce back from this?CHERIDAN HAWKINS: I think we're pretty determined, and we're just -- I think a moment today we didn't make every pitch count.  And I think we do a good job of learning from our mistakes.  And the most we can do is compete on Saturday. And obviously no one likes losing.  So, we're going to hopefully come out aggressive and just attack and play Oregon softball and see what happens.THE MODERATOR: Thank you.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT