TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 4, 2013
Eric Ward
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q.   How did it feel to get into that end zone? 
ERIC WARD:   It feels very good.   That's what you want to do is get into the end zone and get first downs to help the team out.

Q.   You've been helping the team out a lot, not only with downs but your blocking.   Just talk about that again as far as taking pride in blocking. 
ERIC WARD:   I mean, as a receiver, that's what you have to do.   You have to be a selfless player.   You have to go out there and do your job, whether you're getting the ball or not.   So that's what I try to pride myself in.   If I'm not getting the ball, I try to block for my teammates and try hope they do the same for me.

Q.   These past few weeks have been slow starts for you guys on offense.   Have you noticed anything in the OU game or Oklahoma State game maybe a common thread of why you started slow? 
ERIC WARD:   I'd say mistakes first of all.   We can't go out there and turn the ball over and put the defense in a bad situation.   If we minimize mistakes, we can have a faster start on offense.

Q.   Have you guys been trying too hard? 
ERIC WARD:   I mean, it's football.   You have to try hard.   Every play, every rep.   That's what they teach us.   You have to go out there and try your best each opportunity you get.   I don't necessarily think we were not trying hard enough.   I think we can try harder.

Q.   So you don't feel like at times people are pressing to make things happen rather than sort of trusting in everything you've done in practice and just going with that? 
ERIC WARD:   I think that depends on the situation.   I mean, you're going to press whether you like it or not, whether you're behind or ahead.   Sometime it's just happens to come and affect us when we're behind in the game.   We're just trying to make plays happen.   Trying to get on the board.   I don't see it as pressing, it's more trying to get points on the board.

Q.   How is the mood in the locker room? 
ERIC WARD:   We're still the same team that went 7‑0.   We're going to keep on taking it in stride and keep on grinding and getting better each week and minimizing mistakes.

Q.   What do you remember from your games against Kansas State games? 
ERIC WARD:   What do I remember last year or the previous games prior to that? 

Q.   Any of the previous games against Kansas State. 
ERIC WARD:   I remember they hold the ball a really long time on offense.   It's kind of frustrating as an offensive player because they try to like take the games in their hand and try to keep the ball as long as they can when they're on offense. 
But on defense they play zone, mainly zone, and try to make the offense make mistakes.   They're very disciplined in what they're doing. 
So our goal is to minimize mistakes and keep our defense off the field.   Just go out there and keep balling like we should be.   Minimize our mistakes, hold on to it, and prevent fumbles.

Q.   If there is one thing weak in Kansas State defense, what is that? 
ERIC WARD:   We have so many skilled players, I don't think they can stop every one of us.   I don't think anybody can stop every one of us.   I mean, it is what it is.   We have too much talent on this team.   We just have to find a better way of utilizing each person.

Q.   You talked about them holding on to the ball.   Does that put more pressure that you may not get as many opportunities? 
ERIC WARD:   As an offense, we have to go out there and do what we've practiced day‑in and day‑out, and that is spread the ball around and execute plays.

Q.   You mentioned defense.   How satisfying was it to see Kerry Hyder get a punt block like he did in the game? 
ERIC WARD:   That was very satisfying.   That's very satisfying for an offensive player to see that or any teammate.   I just think we need more big plays like that to put us in a better position to score as an offensive player.

Q.   The last quarter in this past game, you guys got down in the red zone and had a difficult time putting it across.   Does that cause you any concern there? 
ERIC WARD:   Not necessarily.   I mean we have a lot of plays that we can run in the red zone.   It's just sometimes plays don't work.   It's not a perfect sport.   We've just got to do better of executing plays when the play is called.

Q.   You guys were 1‑8 since November of 2011.   What have you noticed about this team that helped you all change that this year this time around? 
ERIC WARD:   We're very resilient.   We had two losses, but that's football.   Sometime it's don't go your way.   The ball doesn't bounce your way all the time.   We have to bounce back and keep moving forward.   We have three regular season games left, and we have to do our best each week and get better.

Q.   Do you feel like you guys are better equipped to beat these teams toward the end of the season this year? 
ERIC WARD:   As long as we handle our business, I don't see why not.   We just take one challenge each week and work on what we need to work on.   And that is minimizing mistakes and turnovers.   As long as we minimize those things, we have a great job to win games.

Q.   The other night, the game is in the balance and you have the series where you have three in and out and quick interceptions.   Going back and looking at it, what were you not doing well in those three series? 
ERIC WARD:   I guess we weren't patient enough.   I mean, we were trying to make things happen that weren't there.   I would say that.   We've just got to play our game and just stay patient and let things work themselves out.   Not try to put pressure on ourselves and just go out there and play football.

Q.   Big game for you this week.   Talk about that? 
ERIC WARD:   I'm very excited.   I'm excited every week whether I'm getting the ball or just blocking.   I'm just excited to be part of this program.   I've been here four years playing, but feels like a lifetime to be honest with you. 
But this is my last home game and I want to go out on a good note.   I want to win my last home game, of course.   It's bittersweet because it's my last time playing a home game in the Jones.   But I know the fans will be there supporting us.   And I just want to go out there and play my heart out for my team.

Q.   Your career at Texas, has it been what you expected when you got here to Texas Tech? 
ERIC WARD:   It was actually more than I expected.   I came here and I was an 18‑year‑old high school student.   I graduated early.   So I came in at mid‑term, I didn't know what to expect.   But I learned a lot I can say that.   Because I came in under the impression that in the high school frame of mind that I'm that guy.   But in college, everybody's that guy and you've got to reframe your thoughts and you've got to learn from your past experience and move on and learn from the older guys that are teaching you how things are going to be. 
I'm pretty sure that I've learned a lot from the guys that I've played behind these past few years.   And I'm glad I can leave a legacy on the younger guys and teach them the role and how to go out there and become a better player.

Q.   So far what's been your favorite memory? 
ERIC WARD:   My favorite memory?   I would say when we played Nevada in 2011.   I scored a game‑winning touchdown.   That was the best feeling I've ever had.   It's going to get better.   That is the most exciting memory I've ever had playing football here.   So I can't say that.   That was very exciting for me.

Q.   What have you learned this year that maybe you didn't know that you were going to learn by staying and coming back for an extra year? 
ERIC WARD:   I've learned that this is‑‑ I mean, I already knew this, because football, every guy on the team plays a role.   Whether you're playing or on the sideline, everybody has their own role.   It takes everybody to go out and win the football game.   Not just the ones out there playing, but the ones on the sideline cheering us on to go out there.   To have that support system on the sideline, and that intrinsically is motivation to the guys on the team.

Q.   What's it mean to be part of the Lone Survivor program and wear the uniform this is weekend? 
ERIC WARD:   It means a lot.   It's for a special cause and for special individuals that go out and lay their life on the line, to do something so great for Americans, that means a lot.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT