WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 23, 2017
Jon Raum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JON RAUM: With this wind, it's hard to control.  We hit shots that we thought were perfect.  Example is the chip on 13 that went off the green.  The second shot on 9.  There was a couple of shots that we thought were going to be really, really good and we didn't get the best of bounces or the best of luck or the outcome we hoped for.  That paid off with some great tee shots on the back nine.  Started on 12.  I hammered that one.  I hit the one on 13 nearly perfect.  14, 15, 16, was a lot of good tee shots.  Obviously that puts pressure on the opponent, right?  I was fortunate enough to hit good shots and had birdie putts.  This wind, that usually is going to help you win.
Q. I talked to Sergio after he won his match.  He's excited that it looks like at least one of you advance.  How excited are you to play against Sergio?
JON RAUM: Really.  You know, it's a good friend of mine.  Obviously both same country.  We really want to play each other.  We wish it was in the final.  But we're going to pretend like it's a final.  We're both very excited.  Worse came to worse, we're both were in the same group.  One of us is going to go through.  Mathematically whoever wins tomorrow is going to go through.  I think that is good thing for us that at least we will have the showdown tomorrow.  We're probably going to be excited about it.
Q. You were talking about that it's an intriguing group for you to be in.  What is it like to play Sergio Garcia tomorrow?
JON RAUM: I can't really explain how it's going to be like.  Obviously we both hoped this match was going to be the final.  Luck wasn't on our side.  I think we're both really excited that at least whoever wins tomorrow is going to advance to the round of 16 for sure.  We're excited about that.  Both from the same country and both good friends like we are, that makes it more exciting for us to try to beat each other.
Q. He has to win to advance.  You have to halve the match to advance.  Will that play at all when you face Sergio on Friday?
JON RAUM: No.  But I'll try to get dormie as soon as possible.  I know he's going to come with everything he's got and I'm going to be the same way.  I should try to win as soon as possible.  I know he's a good player.  I don't want to give him many chances.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT