PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2011
Rob Moss
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Rob, can you just talk about your round today?   
 ROB MOSS: Sure. You know, it's such a demanding golf course tee-to-green, and I don't hit it very far and it puts a lot of stress on all my approaches. I drove it fairly well today. But boy, I'm just wearing out my hybrids and 3-woods into these par 4s.   
 So just had it even through five. Made a bogey on 1 and a birdie on 5 but then it I got in a little stretch, missed a few really straightforward up-and-downs on 6, 7, 8 and then I made a terrible double on 9. I hit too much club, landed right by the pin, bounced in that back bunker which is absolutely dead.   
 Birdied 11, hit to ten, 12 feet and made that.  
 My iron control was not that great today. Knocked it over a few greens today and got in trouble and finished with a double on 18 which is a little disappointing. Had a ball little below my feet, hanging lie, and tried to knock it up on the green instead of laying up and knocked it in the water. So 8-over par is where I finished, and that's where we stand.   
  
  Q. Can you talk a little about the experience of coming out here and playing as the club pro and what that means?   
 ROB MOSS: Sure. I mean, this is just our golden jewel; to be able to get out here was one of the 20 club professionals and have a front row seat to all of the world-class golfers, I've always said I just wish all of my peers could experience a week like this. It's just such a fantastic experience. My family is here, extended family.   
 They have some tees up today. They didn't stretch it all the way to the tip. So there were some spots where guys didn't have to hit driver where they may have in the past and I have to hit driver everywhere due to my lack of length. The two gentlemen I played with, they hit a lot of 3-woods off the tee and kept it in good position. It's such a demanding driving golf course with how well bunkered it is.  
  
  Q. How was the golf course playing today? You said some tees were up. But overall were there scores out there?  
 ROB MOSS: I don't know. I don't know. I saw a couple of guys at 6- or 7-under which is just incredible.  
 15 they had playing back, 253 to the pin, and you know, even from the forward tees, it's still a tremendous golf course. At least, you know, for a club professional like myself. So just we are going to try to enjoy the moment and get a good night's sleep and hopefully go out and play solid tomorrow.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT