PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2010
Rob Moss
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Maybe just kind of recap what turned out to be a pretty long week for you. 
 ROBERT MOSS: Yeah, it was a long week, but all in all it was just a tremendous experience to be out here to play with the world class players. Something I said before, I wish all my peers could have this opportunity to get this experience. 
 But yesterday I teed off at 6:15, the wind was really really gusting yesterday. I had to play, starting on 1 yesterday, I had those first four holes, which are kind of right into the, right into the mouth of the beast there, but I managed to make three bogeys and a par on those first four holes before the horn sounded. 
 And I got to start out today on 5 and obviously the wind was laying down and I made some better swings today and ended up shooting 77 today, so obviously all in all just a great week.

 Q. Are you happy with the way you responded on the back nine to finish?
 ROBERT MOSS: Yeah, there's a few par-4s here I can't reach in two. For goodness sake, I hit the ball right down the middle on 18 and hit another shot to lay up and hit a 7-iron into the green. So there's a few holes that I can't get home in two. So it's a lot more par than 72 for me. 
 But I'm not used to championship conditions like this and obviously when you get the wind blowing and get a little weather in there, especially with Pete Dye here, the design is such an intimidating golf course off the tee visually, and you know, we were just not used to than it's hard to get yourself in the right frame of mind and really trust what you're doing. 
 But I made some decent swings on the back nine today and all in all felt pretty good about how we finished tomorrow. 

 Q. Obviously you learn some more looking forward I would think to the next opportunity?
 ROBERT MOSS: If I get that opportunity again in the future would I certainly look forward to it. Yeah, every time I go out I learn something new and it was great getting to be here and this was a little different experience, but a new one again and just sitting on the range and watching these guys practice and being on the putting green and watching what they do, it really just, it was just great to be around the world class players. And I had such a great pairing with Charles Howell and they were all welcoming me the whole way around and encouraging me and it was just great to be up close and watch them all play.





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT