PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2010
Rob Moss
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How would you compare this course to the Pete Dye course at French Lick? 
 ROB MOSS: Well, obviously they are both Pete Dye courses and they are both very intimidating off the tee but the Whistling Straits track has much more rough, much more penal if you miss a fairway. In the end, the rough wasn't as penalizing and you could kind of play out of it here, but if I it drive it in the rough, I'm in some trouble. I think it's just much more demanding off the tee. Plus, it's playing much longer than we played in Indiana. 

 Q. Can you just take us through your round, things you thought you did well and some things you might have to adjust for tomorrow?
 ROB MOSS: I don't know where to begin. I got off to a pretty good start, birdied 10 and 12 out of the gate and headed into a green-side bunker on 14 where I didn't have much of a play and ended up making double there and followed it with a couple more bogeys and double and turned in 40, so I was kind of reeling there.
 Made a very solid birdie on 1, and every time I made a birdie, I made a bogey somewhere. Made a very poor double on 5 and followed with a great birdie on 7 and then followed that with a bogey on 8. It was kind of an up-and-down round. Thank goodness I putted solidly. You don't say that very often shooting 78 but this is just one demanding golf course. 
 I don't hit it as far as a lot of these guys do. There's three par 4s and I can't get home in two. I have to play for the green a little bit and try to make four the hard way.

 Q. Can you talk about representing your section and The PGA of America here at this major championship? 
 ROB MOSS: Sure. It's an honor and privilege to be here as one of 20 club professionals in the country. I'm from the north Ohio section and I've received a tremendous amount of support and encouragement from my fellow members. Like I said I'm just trying my best here and trying to enjoy the experience. 
 To get to play with the world's best, I played with Charles Howell and Gregory Bourdy today, and they are two of the best players I've ever been paired with in my life. So it was a pleasure to stay out there with them. 
 They were gentlemen in every aspect today and very welcoming me as a club professional so we really enjoyed our day today.

 Q. Is this your second PGA Championship?
 ROB MOSS: Yeah, I was fortunate enough to qualify in 2005 at Baltusrol and this is my second dream week at a PGA Championship.

 Q. Does that previous experience help lessen the load on you at all, or is there even more pressure possibly to perform well?
 ROB MOSS: You know, I'm trying not to put too much pressure on myself here to perform. I understand I'm a working club professional and I'm just here living the dream for a week. Most of these guys play golf for a living, and this is such a demanding golf course; it's just so mentally draining. You've got to hit so many golf shots where there's just no bail-out areas and every hole can just jump up and get you at any point in time so you've got to be sharp at all times. You just can't relax out there. So it's like I said a very mentally draining golf course. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT