JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
August 11, 2016
Scott Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Great opening day.  Before we get some thoughts on your round, boy, did you putt well today.  Those were some great putts, lovely 20-footer, as well, on 7.
SCOTT BROWN: Yeah, I putted nicely.  Those haven't been going in lately over the last couple weeks, but today it was a different story, so got some to go in.  Like you said, some longer putts, which are nice to see.
Q. Which is kind of what has to happen when you shoot a great round of 5-under par.  Who knows about the weather tomorrow.  What do you work on if anything between round 1 and round 2?
SCOTT BROWN: You know, not much.  I need to go out and play the par-5s better.  I played the par-5s pretty bad today, even par, and two of them I can get to in two.  If I can go out and keep doing the same thing and play the par-5s, it should make for a good weekend.
Q. 66 for you today; you're another one of those guys that has a couple of top 10s here, you play well.  Is there something specific about the water, maybe the Rock River or the Mississippi that makes guys continue to play well here?
SCOTT BROWN: Yeah, I just think when you come here, you get a good feel for the golf course.  I don't think it's any different than any other golf course we play; it seems like guys tend to play the same golf courses good over and over again.  But the course is in tremendous shape every year when we come here, and I feel like once you play good here, you kind of -- over time the see the same putts over and over again, and you know where your misses are, and I think guys just have a good feel for this golf course.
Q. It's been about three years since you won in Puerto Rico.  Did you think that more wins would follow, and how are you handling trying to get back in the winner's circle?
SCOTT BROWN: We're always positive thinking we're going to win soon.  But just plugging, just keep doing my thing, and trying to put myself in contention more often, get a little more consistent out here, and I think it'll happen.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT