SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
March 31, 2016
Scott Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Scott Brown, who punctuated his round with the chip-in on 18.  No bogies on your card.  The wind was down, conditions were good.  How strong was that number today?  
SCOTT BROWN: Very strong for me.  You know, coming off last week I felt I was playing really good in Puerto Rico and carry it over obviously to this week, feel like I'm doing some really good things out there.  You know, my short game is kind of coming around and starting to see some putts go in, which frees everything up.  Hopefully it will continue the next few days.   
 Q.  As we talked about in the broadcast, born in Augusta, Georgia, live in Aiken, South Carolina.  You're trying to get your first invitation to the Masters.  You can do that with a win this week.  Are you trying not to think about as you enter the Shell Houston Open, or are you using that as major motivation?  
SCOTT BROWN: Probably more as motivation.  I kind of want to come here and be pretty aggressive and try to win a golf tournament, not that we're not trying to win every week, but I'm trying to use it as motivation.   
 Q.  Seems to be working.  
 Scott Brown, 7-under par, 65 with a birdie at the end to finish her off.  Talk about the round.   
SCOTT BROWN: Playing nicely.  Kind of carried over from last week.  Doing some good things in the short game area, which has kind of freed me up a little bit with the full swing and hopefully I can keep it going over the next few days.   
 Q.  You're bogey-free.  What was -- you were scrambling, 4 for 4 in scrambling.  What else was working out there for you?  
SCOTT BROWN: I mean I'm striking it pretty well.  I think I only missed 4, 5 greens today.  Kind of been consistent with my iron play lately.  Other than that, you know, I'm getting up-and-down when I have to.  I'm really making the crucial putts, 4, 5, 6-footers for par to keep the rounds going.   
 Q.  What was most bothersome to you, the bugs, the heat?  
SCOTT BROWN: First time I felt humidity like this.  Where I'm from, I'd much rather it be 100 than 50.  I'll take it.   
 Q.  You got asked the question earlier, talk about the last hole.  
SCOTT BROWN: Yeah.  I hit a drive in the right fairway bunker and drew kind of an iffy lie.  Was not really sure if I could get enough club on to it, get it somewhere around the green and hit a pretty good shot, caught it pretty cleanly out of there and obviously very fortunate to chip it in to finish kind of with a bang.   
 Q.  Did you have a good lie in the chip?  
SCOTT BROWN: Yeah.  There's not many bad lies around here.  The course is in fabulous condition.   
 Q.  And the obligatory Augusta question.  Have you been to Augusta National having not --  
SCOTT BROWN: I grew up 200 yards from the front gate.  My grandparents have tickets since I was born.  I've been there 15, 20 times to the tournament.  I was saying earlier I'm using it more as motivation than really thinking about it.  Hopefully something good will happen and I can get in.   
 Q.  You don't win golf tournaments on the first day.  You put yourself where you want to be.  
SCOTT BROWN: Yeah.  You know, everybody says Saturday is moving day.  To me the most important round professionally is the first day because you set yourself up for the whole week.  Very fortunate to get off to a good start and kind of looking forward to the rest of the week, kind of free up a little bit and see what happens.   
 Q.  Pretty much close to the hole, you hit your irons for a few birdie putts?  
SCOTT BROWN: Close iron shots and also made a few, you know, 15, 20-footers for a few more birdies and then made a couple probably 5, 6-footers for par to try to keep the round going.   
 Q.  So about 40 feet your longest one?  
SCOTT BROWN: That's about right.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT