FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 30, 2016
Scott Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  That was solid out there.  It was tough, but it didn't seem that tough for you because you put the ball in play in the fairway.  Isn't that the key to this place?  
SCOTT BROWN: Yeah, I drove it well.  I drove it really well.  And it is.  That's what you have to do out here to make it easy on yourself.  It's still tough getting to some of these pins, and then some of the pins being tucked on ridges.  You're going to make some bogeys, but as long as you minimize mistakes off the tee, you can get a few birdies.   
 Q.  Is there a harder set of par-3s out here today that don't have hazards on them?  You had to pull out a little lumber today, didn't you?  
SCOTT BROWN: Yeah, no, these are hard par-3s.  They are.  And then the wind blowing a little bit around out there, it makes it's tough.   
 Q.  What are you looking forward to tomorrow?  Do you have special layers?  What's your plan, you got to figure out how to dress, because too many layers is not going to be good?  
SCOTT BROWN: I'm going to dress warm.  I should be used to it.  Right before I left the house it was mid 40s and blowing around pretty good, so I got some practice in at home, so I'm ready for it.   
 Q.  What was key for you to have success out on the South Course?  
SCOTT BROWN: I just drove it really good today.  I think I only missed a couple fairways out there.  That's what you have to do around this place.  You got to drive it good to get yourself in position.  If you don't, you just got to take your medicine and not try to make any big numbers.   
 Q.  You hear the word patient a lot from a lot of the players when they walk off this golf course.  How do you define patience on this golf course, and how much was that in play for you today?  
SCOTT BROWN: A lot.  I fed off that a little bit in the first round having some patience over there starting 2-over through I my first five holes.  Then, obviously, making some birdies late.   
It's just one of those golf courses where you're going to make some bogeys, but if you drive it really good, you can give yourself some birdie opportunities and that's what you got to do.   
 Q.  How do you prepare for all the wind and rain and the competition tomorrow?  
SCOTT BROWN: I don't know if you can fully.  You got to go out there and I think it's going to be a grind for everybody.  I think that under par, just under par or even par is going to be a really good score tomorrow.  It's going to be tough, you got to stay patient and keep grinding.   
 Q.  Overall thoughts about where you stand through three rounds here?  
SCOTT BROWN: Awesome.  Any time you're close to the lead or in the lead, it's obviously pretty good feeling.  I've been driving it well for three days, really, and hopefully if I can continue that tomorrow, I'll be able to post another decent number.  The weather's going to be brutal, so we'll just see how it goes.   
 Q.  A lot of guys up near the top of the leaderboard, talk about your preparations.  
SCOTT BROWN: Yeah, it's congested for sure.  There are a lot of guys that are still in the mix.  Three or four back of the lead.  Obviously, with the weather prediction tomorrow, it's going to be tough to shoot par or just under par.  So, those guys have a good chance.   
 Q.  How are you in the rain?  
SCOTT BROWN: I feel like I'm kind of a mudder, a little bit.  I kind of like it.  Before I left home it was 45 and blowing 15 or 20, so I'm kind of used to it, but I prefer about 85 degrees and hot.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT