WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 23, 2015
Scott Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Scott, obviously big number had to be posted today. Boy, you came awfully close.  
SCOTT BROWN: Yeah. I mean it was awesome, playing with Tiger, my first time. He was great. Got it going, Hole-In-One on the 3rd hole, so just made a couple bogies late, kind of derailed me a little bit. Davis played an awesome round.  
   
 Q. Talk about a Hole-In-One. That's got to be special.  
SCOTT BROWN: Yeah. Obviously playing with Tiger and he said that's the first one he's every written on the scorecard so that's pretty cool.  
   
 Q. Now, are you prepared to buy the rounds?  
SCOTT BROWN: He's going to owe me all day for the rounds. He's been begging me for his drink.  
   
 Q. Overall assess your week here and how you feel you've played and how that might propel you going forward.  
SCOTT BROWN: Feel good. I had a couple weeks off coming in here, worked hard with my coach last few weeks and feel good about where it's going. Obviously today was a stepping stone in the right direction. So, hopefully I can get it going in The Playoffs and make a Billy Horschel move.  
   
 Q. Talk about the big difference between sort of playing well and finishing well.  
SCOTT BROWN: Yeah. It's a big difference. When you play well -- you got to finish well, too. Lot of times we're out there and it's a grind. This week for me I played pretty good all week and just didn't hole the putts I needed to hole on the back-9 today to get myself in there.  
   
 Q. When you got tied for the lead at 17, obviously you had a couple of bogies there, did you realize where you were on the leaderboard?  
SCOTT BROWN: Yeah. I was watching it. I started on No. 9 looking where I was in the tournament. I knew -- I knew starting today I told my coach starting today 17 is a playoff and 18 is a winner. I had my mind set on 18 the whole day and just didn't get there.  
   
 Q. You had that ace early on, though, how much of a momentum boost for the rest of the round?  
SCOTT BROWN: It's awesome. Anytime you make a 1 it's such a bonus. It's pretty cool. It was obviously electric, the atmosphere being with Tiger, the whole crowd he draws here is so awesome and such a -- so good on him to play here. It does so much for this community. It was electric when I made it.  
   
 Q. You seemed really comfortable out there with the big crowd.  
SCOTT BROWN: I was just nervous. I was just trying to hide it really good. I was feeling it. But once I got into it I felt pretty good.  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT