WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 22, 2015
Scott Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Good round going into the final round. That's got to feel pretty good.
SCOTT BROWN: Yeah, feel good about it. Started off slow today. Made a bogey early and just really got nothing going and finally started to make something, putts starting on No. 9. Got it going on the back-9. So, looking forward to tomorrow.

Q. What was it about the back-9 that got you in the groove?
SCOTT BROWN: I was hitting it good on the front, just making nothing. Gave myself a lot of looks and just finally I made one on 9, good putt. Kind of opened the flood gates for you.

Q. How big was the birdie on 18 to get you two back of the lead?
SCOTT BROWN: It's always good. You always want to finish good on 18. I'm looking forward to tomorrow, you know. I'm in this position a few times now. Hopefully I can take advantage of it.

Q. What would it mean to win in the Carolinas?
SCOTT BROWN: It would mean a great deal. Being almost three and a half hours from here, feels like a home event, really, so it would feel awesome to do that.

Q. Scott, 1-over after 8 holes and what turned it around for you, put the pedal to the metal on the back-9.
SCOTT BROWN: I hit some good shots on the front-9 and made absolutely nothing. Hit a good shot into 9, made a pretty good slider putt there, left to right, just kind of opened the blade a little. Made some putts obviously on the back-9 and turned it into a good one.

Q. 12-footer at 18, anytime you can seal one at 18, that's a good birdie.
SCOTT BROWN: It is a good one. It's such a tough hole, downhill lie. The grain is fast. It's a great birdie.

Q. You're in good position going into The Playoffs starting next week. You can put something together tomorrow, you got a chance to solidify your position for a month.
SCOTT BROWN: Absolutely. It's kind of the way my thought process was coming in here. Kind of know the situation, I can play good the next two weeks and if I do, you know, I can keep going. If not, I get to go home for five or six. It's no holds barred.

Q. Good playing today. Good luck tomorrow.
SCOTT BROWN: Thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT