FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 11, 2015
Scott Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   65.   You got to be happy posting that number, the conditions seemed to be perfect to be able to go a little bit low?  
SCOTT BROWN:   They're perfect.   It's also a hard golf course.   You got to kind of work your way around here and got to hit it good, make some good length putts.   It's hard to get it close to a lot of these pins, but, you know, that's what I do all day, drove it well and made some putts.  
   
 Q.   When you come into this event, you realize that guys say that with the new course design, 2, 3-under everyday will put you in contention.   Do you have a number in mind, or are you just -- obviously as low as you can possibly go?  
SCOTT BROWN:   Yeah, you kind of know coming here this year what the scores are going to be like.   You base it off conditions.   Usually if they're soft, guys out here will go low.   But, no, no number in mind.   Try to go out and shoot best you can everyday.  
  
Q.Now as you go in and realize that tomorrow is the big day, the next day, how do you build on today?  
SCOTT BROWN:   Just keep trying to do the same thing.   You know, it's one of those golf courses you can't get super aggressive on.   The moment you start to try to push it or make birdies, it will bite you.   So, you got to stay patient around here and hopefully make some putts.  
   
 Q.   Any part of your game that you're really happy with today?   Is there anything that you really maybe have to go work on as you head into tomorrow?  
SCOTT BROWN:   Everything is there.   I made a few more putts than I have in the last few weeks.   Made some nice 20-footers to kind get the round going and made a couple clutch par putts from inside 10 feet to kind of keep it going.   As long as I keep making putts, I think I'll be okay.  
   
 Q.   Scott, congratulations.   Five birdies, no bogies.   That's impressive on this golf course.   Thoughts on how you played?  
SCOTT BROWN:   I played nicely.   Drove it well, which you need to do around here to give yourself at least some opportunities to hit the green.   Didn't play overly aggressive.   Just kind of plodded my way around and made some good 20-footers for the birdie and some clutch putts inside 10 feet to kind of keep the round going.   All in all, a good day.  
   
 Q.   I was going to say you made over a hundred feet worth of putts in this round.   Talking to players yesterday, raving about the greens out here about how just pure they are.   I guess you like them that way.  
SCOTT BROWN:   Obviously, yeah.   I grew up on bermuda.   That always helps.   I can see grain probably a little better than most, and it always help when you putt on something you're used to and growing up on and kind of have a feel for what the speed is going to be like, down-grain versus into the grain and what it's going to do to the breaks.   Yeah, it's almost second nature to me putting on bermuda.   It's nice to see some putts go in.  
   
 Q.   This is your 23rd event this year.   Six in a row.   You're grinding, man.  
SCOTT BROWN:   I kind of needed to, you know.   I've actually gone on a good stretch the last four, five, six weeks.   Missed the cut last week, but before that, you know, I kind of went on a good stretch, I made a bunch of cuts and had some good tournaments.   Kind of need to try to keep my job.   That's what I was going to do.  
   
 Q.   Off to a good start this week, 5-under.  
SCOTT BROWN:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT