THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 8, 2015
Scott Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  67 today.  Great round.  Talk us through it overall thoughts on the round.  SCOTT BROWN: Yeah, I'm striking the ball really nicely this week so far.  Didn't make much yesterday.  Got some putts going today.  I left a few out there, really, for the most part.  I'm struggling with my speed a little bit on some of the shorter putts.  They look so much faster than what they are because the tint of the green, they're brown, they're firm, so they have the appearance that they're going to roll out really far, but they don't.  Hopefully just keep striking it the way I'm striking it and keep shooting good scores.   Q.  After the wind laid pretty good in the afternoon --  SCOTT BROWN: It did.   Q.  -- at what point in your round do you feel like it really got down?  SCOTT BROWN: Probably right around when I made the turn.  I felt like it died a little bit.  It got eerie calm out there for the most part.  We were not even playing wind, my caddie and I, on the latter nine there.   Q.  Is it a different course when you don't have that wind that was blowing yesterday and this morning?  SCOTT BROWN: Yeah, it's a little bit different.  Obviously it makes it a little bit easier when you don't have wind, but this is not just one of those golf courses you can start being super aggressive on.  It will punish you.  You have to plot your way around here and hit it 20 feet a lot, and hopefully you make a few of those.   Q.  You kind of do a lot of things pretty good.  Is that the kind of game that can win out here?  SCOTT BROWN: Yeah, I don't think this golf course favors long hitters, if that's what you're asking.  I don't think it favors anybody.  I think it favors guys who hit a lot of greens is what I think it favors.  I think historically speaking the guys that tend to do well here just hit a ton of greens.  You get a putter hot a couple rounds, and you're out there in contention.   Q.  You grew up in Georgia and won in Puerto Rico, so these kind of grasses you're pretty okay with?  SCOTT BROWN: Yeah, I'm very familiar with the grass.  Bermuda is obviously -- it's like second nature to me, reading them.  I can see grain really well and I kind of know which way they're going, and the way -- chipping around these areas, I kind of know where it's growing into you.  It's real easy to read for me.   Q.  Do you think the greens will mess with you mentally this weekend?  SCOTT BROWN: I probably will come out and do some putting tomorrow before the round.  They're super firm.  They're starting to firm up a lot, which is a really weird combination with -- they just look like they're going to roll out further than they are, and I really struggled with that on my last nine today.  I had a lot of good looks and I left four or five putts short right in the heart.   Q.  Does it make it hard to get comfortable with your stroke on these greens?  SCOTT BROWN: It's weird.  No, what's really weird about it is on my long putts I didn't struggle at all.  My lag putting was nice, but as far as like -- it's like the 10-footers; you don't really ever have to think about hitting a 10-footer.  That's what makes it so weird.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT