PUERTO RICO OPEN
March 7, 2015
Scott Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Back in a familiar spot here in Puerto Rico.   
SCOTT BROWN:   Yeah, been playing good all week.   Got a few more putts to go in today and ended up shooting a good round.   It's just the wind died just a little bit for us this afternoon.   Putting has been tough early in the week with the wind blowing as hard as it's been.   It's still blowing around a little bit, tough to get it close, but putting is a little bit easier.  
   
 Q.   This seems like one of those courses where you get a guy that likes a course, seems to always bubble up like Michael Bradley, past champion is doing well, Chesson, yourself.   What do you think that is?  
SCOTT BROWN:   I'm not sure, just familiar with kind of the conditions of the course.   It sets my eye pretty well, and I think it's got a great mix‑‑ it's a great golf course.   It's got a great mix of holes.   It's not our typical TOUR course now where it's so long.   It keeps a lot of us in the game a little bit here, and I think that's why you see that.  
   
 Q.   Looking towards tomorrow, how are you going to approach tomorrow?  
SCOTT BROWN:   If the wind stays like this, I'm assuming‑‑ for me I've got to shoot under 4‑, 5‑, 6‑under par.   I think double digits would be pretty good.   If I had to set a goal, I think under where from 10 to 12 would be pretty good.  
   
 Q.   And the wind all week, how have you dealt with it?   Not as bad today but the first two days was pretty strong.   
SCOTT BROWN:   Yeah, the toughest thing about this course is it's all cross‑winds, so you very rarely get any downwind or into the wind shots.   It's all quarter in or across.   That's what makes it so tough.   But it's really just guesswork.   It's guessing on how much you think it's going to move it.   The wind has been so strong that you can't really play shots that hold up against it.   You've just kind of got to let the wind do what it does.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT