JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 12, 2014
Scott Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MARK STEVENS:   Like to welcome Scott Brown.   Awesome round of 61 today.   Take us through that and comment, maybe, on the group also who everybody in your threesome were on fire today.  
SCOTT BROWN:   Yeah, we all kind of got it going early and feeding off each other.   We were all making a bunch of birdies and it just turned into a really special day.   Jhonny shot 63, and Daniel shot 65.   It was just one of those groups.   It was just fun to see.  
MARK STEVENS:   Was there something that sparked it early?   
SCOTT BROWN:   Well, I've got a funny story.   So Daniel hit it in the right rough on 5, I think, and he caught a jumper, and hit off the ShotLink tower and went in the hole for eagle.   So that kind of got us going, we were all just going well, we can't be beat today.  
   
 Q.   Were the greens receptive to play today?   
SCOTT BROWN:   It was just softer today.   You didn't have to watch some of the pins.   You could kind of be aggressive and short‑sided because you knew the greens were soft and you could get some chips close if you did short side yourself.   You just had to be aggressive.   I thought the scores would be lower today than any other day just because of the rain.  
   
 Q.   Did the fact that you guys were playing lift and place change the mentality?   
SCOTT BROWN:   I think you do here anyway, to be honest.   Historically speaking, the scores are always low here, so ball in hand is nice, especially more so around the greens than anything, because you can kind of get closer to the green if you're just on the fringe.   But I mean, to be honest with you, the golf course was a lot drier than I thought it was going to be.   We didn't pick up a lot of mud all day on the ball.   We could have played it down easily.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel today coming?   
SCOTT BROWN:   I played good yesterday and shot 1‑under.     It was kind of a bad 1‑under.   I just didn't make anything.   The first day I played great, so I knew I was playing good.   I didn't feel that I would shoot 61 starting the day.   I was just trying to get myself back in the golf tournament, and it just turned into a great round.  
   
 Q.   But you have expectations?   
SCOTT BROWN:   Just to do the same thing.   I'm going to have to go shoot another low one.   I think you're going to have to get to 20, 21, 22‑under to win the golf tournament.   From where I'm at now, that's another 5‑under, so you still have to go out and shoot good scores.  
   
 Q.   What is it with you and this course?   This is your third year here.   The last two years you've had one round in the 70s, the other mid‑60s.   Good golf, good scores, good finishes, what is it that you like about this course?   
SCOTT BROWN:   It really fits my eye well for some reason.   I have no clue.   I tend to drive it well.   If you drive it well around here, you're going to have a lot of good looks at birdie, because we have short irons in our hands.   If you hit it on the fairway, you can get it close, so I think that's why.   I just drive it well, and it leaves me some good numbers in.  
   
 Q.   It's just a small sample, but do you get a different feel when you come here?   
SCOTT BROWN:   Obviously, I feel like I'm going to play good here because I know I have in the past.   I played great.   I've never played practice rounds the first year here because I had my little girl the year before, and I didn't get in till Wednesday night.   So the first time I saw it was Thursday and I fell in love with it.  
   
 Q.   Speaking of that group, talk about Dan's shot boosting you up?   How would you talk about that whole group's mentality and the scores today?   
SCOTT BROWN:   Well, they're great guys to play with for one thing, and it's a bonus when you start making birdies and everybody's feeding off each other.   It was like he made birdie, I've got to go birdie the next hole.   It's a great mentality and great to have a group like that.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
SCOTT BROWN:   Absolutely.   Especially when we're going that way, because you know you're all going to be in contention of a golf tournament.   So you are kind of a tournament within a tournament, the group.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible) does that happen often out here that you get grouped like that?   
SCOTT BROWN:   It does happen often out here.   These guys are good.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible) how different was it?   
SCOTT BROWN:   Well, it was just easy today.   I would just say we're all hitting really good shots.   It's easy to look at when you see guys in your group hitting really good shots.   It's like I'll hit it just like he did or the shots the way he hit.   It's just nice to see that.   We just all got it going, and we were laughing because Daniel he still got a great round too.  
   
 Q.   Yeah, but he had the two eagles.   
SCOTT BROWN:   That's right.   That definitely was Sportscenter number one, the one off the ShotLink tower.   That was unbelievable.  
   
 Q.   How far off the tower?   
SCOTT BROWN:   It hit about halfway up, and you could see it as soon as it hit off the tower, it came off and came back through the rough and it just trickled off the fringe and like it was going in from the time it got on the green.  
   
 Q.   Kind of a Happy Gilmore moment?   
SCOTT BROWN:   No, but he was like, that's how you play it, boys.  
   
 Q.   Obviously, you had it going.   You got the shot at eagle.   Were you at all thinking magical numbers on the back nine or did it ever cross your mind?   
SCOTT BROWN:   Only when I hit that shot into the green did I ever think about it.   As soon as I hit a great putt there and it didn't go in, as soon as I missed it, you know.   As soon as I hit‑‑ I hit 4‑iron in there, and I think it was 10 or 11 feet, something like that.   I knew if I could make that one and birdie the last, that I would do it.   But, unfortunately, I missed that one, so it didn't really matter.  
   
 Q.   Okay, you shoot 61.   You miss an opportunity like that, do you walk off the course at all disappointed that you weren't able to get there?   
SCOTT BROWN:   Not at all.   And I made a good par save on the last two from 8 or 10 feet, something like that.   I had a couple of those today to keep the momentum going.   So that was a bonus.   I was kind of pushing myself really hard there on the last hole to make that putt to kind of just keep it going a little bit.  
   
 Q.   Last time you shot a score this low was your win.   
SCOTT BROWN:   Fairly similar.   I'm putting very similar to the way I was then.   I was rolling the ball good, and ball striking was very close, so I'm just going to go out and try to do the same thing tomorrow and see what happens.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
SCOTT BROWN:   It will be totally different.   61 doesn't come around every day.   It's always hard to back up a good round because I think you feel like you birdied it yesterday, so you should go out and birdie it again today, it doesn't work like that.   So I'm just going to stay patient and try to make birdies and see how many I can make.  
   
 Q.   Did where Daniel was last year come up at all?   
SCOTT BROWN:   We didn't.   He never even mentioned it.   I didn't even know about it.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
SCOTT BROWN:   Nothing.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT