THE MCGLADREY CLASSIC
November 9, 2013
Scott Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What's the key this week? Very consistent, 66, 68, 68.  
SCOTT BROWN:   Yeah.   Just trying to make golf simple this week.   Seems like I've hit a lot of greens and holed a few putts every now and threaten, driven the ball really well, kind of kept it in play.   It's just been simple, really.   Nothing spectacular.   I hadn't made a lot of putts, but you know, seems like I've been putting from 30 feet all week and just make one every now and then and hit one up there close on a par‑5 and make a couple birdies.  
   
 Q.   Talk about tomorrow because the wind is supposed to die down even more.   Do you think we're going to have a Tommy "Two Gloves" type round again tomorrow?   Do you have to go low tomorrow?  
SCOTT BROWN:   If the wind dies, I think you'll see low scoring here.   You'll get some scoring clubs in your hand for sure.   So I think you'll see some low scores tomorrow if the wind dies.  
   
 Q.   Talk about where you are in your game, because I remember at the Frys you looked really comfortable playing with your daughter.   Life's good.   Finished third out there.   Your game's in a good place right now, isn't it?  
SCOTT BROWN:   Yeah.   I worked hard kind of in those four or five weeks off after the PLAYOFFS and worked on my short game a little bit.   I'm just kind of feeding off that momentum that I had at Frys, too.   
Hitting it pretty good, but it seems to be that I'm getting up‑and‑down and kind of keeping rounds going throughout the day.   
   
 Q.   That's not all bad.   Are you excited about tomorrow?  
SCOTT BROWN:   Yeah, I am.   You know, obviously just getting an opportunity to have a chance to win.   That's what you try to do every week, so you know, we'll have a chance tomorrow and it should be fun.  
   
 Q.   And you've won before.   That's gotta help?  
SCOTT BROWN:   It does help, I think.   I can feed off that experience that I had at Puerto Rico, so yeah, I'm looking forward to tomorrow.  
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT