TAMPA BAY CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY EVERBANK
March 13, 2013
Scott Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DOUG MILNE:   Scott Brown, thanks for joining us after your win in Puerto Rico, congratulations on your first PGA TOUR victory, just some comments on has life changed for you, has the reality set in yet?
SCOTT BROWN:   Not really.   I haven't really had time to think about it to be honest with you.   I've had a lot of media obligations.   Obviously it's something new to me.   It's more of a relief than anything just to prove that I can win out here more than anything. 
DOUG MILNE:   Back home what kind of reception have you gotten from family, friends and everybody back in South Carolina? 
SCOTT BROWN:   Well, I was only home yesterday for like two hours.   So nothing yet but obviously a lot of text messages and calls from family and friends and people at Palmetto Golf Club, and Kevin Kisner won the Web.com event, he plays there every day, too, as well.   So a lot of the members were going crazy on Sunday. 
DOUG MILNE:   And how about just take us back to the final round, just walk us through some of the highlights and then once you finally made the putt for the win, your first thoughts there? 
SCOTT BROWN:   Yeah, I mine, I kind of started off hot in the last round, eagled the second hole and eagled No. 5 the par5 and then made three bogeys in the middle of the golf course there and just tried to hang tough. 
I knew that I watched the board obviously a little bit on the back nine, I knew that the lead wasn't going anywhere.   Just really tried to give myself a chance coming down the stretch and unfortunately Fabian had some stuff look an the last hole.   He played so good all day but that's just the way it goes sometimes.   I was just fortunate enough to make birdie on the last hole and win by one. 
DOUG MILNE:   And with the win, there's obviously all the stuff that comes with it, the full two‑year exemption and in this case almost three, and doesn't even kick in until next year, the tournaments you get into, the Invitationals and so forth.   How much was that a factor and how much is that a relief to you? 
SCOTT BROWN:   It's a huge relief because I was going to play mainly Web.com this year and bounce back and forth between both tours.   So now I can kind of make a schedule and know where I'm going to be and that's a big relief. 
Also, you know, with the FedExCup, with the shortened season, getting 300 points there, for the Puerto Rico Open, was big, trying to help me get in the Playoffs for the end of the year.
DOUG MILNE:   Now moving over to this week her here, the Tampa Bay Championship presented by EverBank, thoughts on here and playing this week? 
SCOTT BROWN:   Yeah, I just got in here shortly and I'm just going to go out and probably try to play nine here today and just try to get prepared to play this tournament.   I'm looking forward to it.   I'm playing well, so I really like this golf course a lot.   I played here last year after a Top‑10 in Puerto Rico and so I'm looking forward to the event. 

Q.   A lot of times, players, whether it's the first win or not, they tend to shy away from playing the next week.   In your case, you added this week, so that must say a lot about how much being here is to you?
SCOTT BROWN:   Yeah, I love playing golf.   The thing is if I go home, I'm going to go play golf.   So I love competing.   And obviously the bonus is that I like this golf course a lot.   So I'm glad to be here. 

Q.   Coming here to Tampa Bay this week, what's going right for you?   Obviously a lot's going right, but as far as your game what are you most happy with? 
SCOTT BROWN:   You know, my ball‑striking has been really solid this year so far.   I started working with a new coach, probably five or six weeks ago, John Tillery, and he's gotten me to where I know where the golf ball is going and I know where my misses are going. 
Last week I just got really hot with the putter.   I've been putting pretty well all year but you know, a lot of the putts started to go in that were around the hole.   So really, I think the consistency is coming from the ball striking and obviously last week being hot, I just got hot with the putter. 

Q.   Being from the Augusta area, is it incumbant upon every male born in Augusta to be a golfer? 
SCOTT BROWN:   I grew up probably 500 or 600 yards from Gate 6 at Augusta, so for me it's kind of in my blood.   I've been going to the tournament since I was a kid and my grandparents have had tickets since I was a baby.   My granddad and I would sit on 6 every day and watch the groups come through.   It's just kind of in my blood.

Q.   With this win, you get to play Kapalua next year, the PGA this year and THE PLAYERS Championship, which one of those are you most excited about? 
SCOTT BROWN:   Probably the PGA, just being my first major.   Just to see the atmosphere.   Obviously I've never played in a major before.   So I'm kind of excited to see the atmosphere of a major championship. 

Q.   You played here last year, how many other TOUR events have you played before coming back here? 
SCOTT BROWN:   Well, just basically from the end of last year to here, I would say I played 20 more. 

Q.   Playing here last year in the top 5, you must have a lot of confidence coming in here. 
SCOTT BROWN:   Yeah, I played well here last year.   I think I just missed the cut by a couple, but I felt good coming in here.   I like the golf course, I didn't take advantage of a lot of opportunities last year. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT