ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 27, 2018
Scott Brown
Kevin Kisner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. In at 12 under.  And guys, a new format.  The way things changed, today you went to alternate shot.  Many are saying it's a lot more dramatic.  There is more movement.  How would you describe the pressure, Scott, with this format?
SCOTT BROWN: It's definitely tougher.  You obviously don't want to hit a bad shot for your partner, but it happens.  It's a tough day out there today.  The wind is blowing around, and we did a good job of hitting a lot of greens.
I think we had one bogey for the day, so pretty good in this format.
Q. Kevin, yesterday we talked about the revenge factor with the playoff on Monday.  How motivated are you by what happened a year ago?
KEVIN KISNER: Well, we would love to get a trophy together.  We grew up together and are long-time friends, so it would be fun to win together.  We've won a bunch of tournaments together, so we're looking forward to the weekend.
Two better than we were last year, so already doing better.
Q. Another solid day for you both.  Kevin, got to ask you the birdie there at No. 7.
KEVIN KISNER: Yeah.
Q. Hybrid off the back of the green.  Kind of saved the day and got a big smile on Scott's face?
KEVIN KISNER: He put me right in a perfect spot.  That was the game plan from the beginning, is to plug it under the lip of that bunker and then have to make it from over the green.
So you never know what's going to happen in this game, and especially in alternate shot.  It's always interesting day.
Q. Scott, you're both from South Carolina.  Both like each other a lot.  Finished second last year.  Can you explain why you're such a good tandem out here?
SCOTT BROWN: Yeah, I feel like it's just because we play together so much when we're home.  Obviously I've seen him hit some really good shots, some really bad shots, and he's seen the same.
We don't put any pressure on each other.  We know it's going to happen, and we just live with it and try to do better on the next one.
Q. You know, Kev, I thought this alternate shot, you had it set up pretty good.  You were on the even-numbered holes and Scott was on the odd.  A lot of par-3 irons; he's a good iron player.  You're a straight driver.  You hit the same golf ball, too, right?
KEVIN KISNER: We don't hit the same golf ball, so he has to do a little calculation.  He played mine.  But, you know, he's the par-3 assassin, so he gets three opportunities out there.  On that last hole I was glad I wasn't hitting it.
Q. What's the future hold for this weekend?
KEVIN KISNER: Hopefully we just give ourselves a shot going into Sunday, you know, and go from there.
I still think tomorrow is going to be kind of a shootout day, so probably have to shoot something low.
Then alternate shot is always one of those things.  You know, if you can both click at the same time and get some putts to go in, you never know what can happen.
Q. Kev, you guys decided what you got going tomorrow?
KEVIN KISNER: We're going with Migos Slippery, so a little rap music for sure everybody to jam to before we rip it off the first.
Q. (Recording interruption.)
KEVIN KISNER: It was a fan vote.  We did a Twitter vote and gave them three choices.  That's what they picked, so that's what we're going with.
Q. Guys, foursomes is a really tough format.  How would you rate your performance today in the second round?
SCOTT BROWN: Pretty good.  Pretty solid.  Didn't do anything crazy.  Hit a bunch of greens.  Never really got out of play much.  I think we had one bogey, so I would say that's a pretty solid performance in that format.
Q. Based often last year's results, how high were the expectations for you guys coming in and have you surpassed those expectations?
KEVIN KISNER: You want it?
SCOTT BROWN: I don't think we had any expectations.  I think we're just used to it more than anything.  We play together so much when we're home.  It is a tournament and obviously there is added pressure, but we kind of know each other's games pretty well, so it's nothing new really for us.
Q. Kevin, how about you?
KEVIN KISNER: I don't think -- obviously we think we have a chance to win before we tee it up, so that's an expectation.  We played a ton of team golf together in mini tour days growing up and everybody at home wants to play us, so we're always on teams together.  We like the challenge.  Looking forward to the weekend.
Q. What is it about this golf course that ya'll are so dialed in on?
KEVIN KISNER: I'm not real sure.  Neither one of us are huge fans of around the greens because they're so difficult to chip.
But (indiscernible) does and amazing job off the tee making it look like there is nowhere to hit it, but there is plenty room.  That's the constant battle you have with yourself out there.  I'm just glad he has to do all the par-3s in alternate shot.
Q. (Regarding chip shot.)
KEVIN KISNER: Lucky.  No, he's left me in the perfect spot both times.  You know, just funnels right in there.  A lot of that it luck.  I hit good shots, but to go in, you need luck on your side, too.
Q. How much is that an adjustment, going to best ball yesterday to having to kind of having to play complementary golf today?
KEVIN KISNER: I think it's brutal off the tee.  You know from the getgo if you screw it up from there it's going to be a long haul.
We did a great job of keeping ball in play off the tee.  I think we played a little more conservative today, and if we need to hit the gas on Sunday then we can.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT