PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY SEEPUERTORICO.COM
March 9, 2013
Scott Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Scott Brown, currently tied for the lead with Fabian Gomez at 18‑under through three rounds of the Puerto Rico Open presented by seepuertorico.com.   First of all, your impressions on this third day. 
SCOTT BROWN:   Yesterday?
THE MODERATOR:   No.   Sorry.   How about today's round? 
SCOTT BROWN:   I played solid.   I got off to a fast start, birdied 1 and 2.   And then kind of just went stale in the middle of the round and then birdied 10 and 15 and 17. 
So I played solid.   I'm keeping the ball in the fairway and hit a lot of greens and getting up‑and‑down, keeping the momentum going.   So just playing solid golf right now.
THE MODERATOR:   Before we take some questions, your impressions on going to the final round tied for the lead. 
SCOTT BROWN:   I mean it's a position I've never been in before obviously out here.   I've been close, in contention, the last few groups, but never in the final group.   So it'll be new.
But I'm playing good.   So I look forward to good things.

Q.   You've been playing great this season in the tournaments you've played in.   I noticed you didn't play in January.   Can you talk about how that was your game plan for the year, to practice in January and start going into February?
SCOTT BROWN:   Yeah.   I went to the finals at Q‑School.   So I really didn't have that much time off.   I guess I got in ‑‑ Pebble was the first event I played.   I would have loved to have played in January if they would have let me, but I just didn't get in anything.   So I worked hard.   I started working with my new instructor in the off season, John Tillery, and he's really helped me a lot and I'm seeing some progress finally, you know, in ball striking.   So it's been good all year.   Just one more day, I guess, of good ball striking would be great.

Q.   What were some of the mechanics that you and John worked on?
SCOTT BROWN:   Just really ‑‑ I mean we started working with the TrackMan system a little bit, and just kind of got a feel for things like swing path and club face and things like that, just working on really half related stuff.

Q.   Can you describe what you were doing on TrackMan and what the numbers helped you discover?
SCOTT BROWN:   Well, my golf swing was too steep and too much to the right, basically.   So I was hitting some thin shots, needless to say, so I just feel like the golf club swinging more left is the fix.

Q.   I noticed the Tropes Pediatric logo on your bag.   Can you tell me a little bit more about that?
SCOTT BROWN:   It's kind of like a hospital on wheels for kids who can't get there.   It's a good organization.   It's actually my wife's ‑‑ it's her ‑‑ it's a family relative.   So yeah, it's a good cause.   So you know, I like to have that kind of stuff on the bag.

Q.   What would a win here tomorrow, how would that change your season?
SCOTT BROWN:   Obviously it would change it a great deal.   I'd have status out here instead of trying to bounce back and forth between both tours. 
But you know, I mean we'll just see how it goes.   I'm just going to try to keep doing the same thing and hopefully I'll be in the winner's circle tomorrow, but if not, you know, I'll just see where it goes and play both tours if I have to.

Q.   Have you tried to Monday qualify for any TOUR events this year?
SCOTT BROWN:   Not this year.   Houston will probably be my first one.   If I don't win here tomorrow, I'll probably try to do Houston.   I just didn't want to bounce with the shortened season this year, and I guess 50 cards being on the Web.com Tour, I just felt like, you know, it's tough when you ‑‑ I'm probably not going to get five or six starts out here, you know.   So I could play a full year out there and just try to gain status back out here for '14.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT