PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY SEEPUERTORICO.COM
March 8, 2013
Scott Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Start off talking about what was going good out there.  
SCOTT BROWN:   Man, I got off to just a very normal start, birdied both par‑5s on the front.   Was hitting it good.   And then I holed a shot out on 7 from the fairway with a 7‑iron.  
   
 Q.   About how far out?  
SCOTT BROWN:   I think I had roughly 170 to the hole.   It was the next par‑3 I made like a 50‑footer for birdie and then hit it to an inch on nine and kind of just jump started my round.   
Birdied 10, and then I kind of went astray a little bit with some iron shots, but I made some good up‑and‑downs.   I missed like four greens in a row, got three out of four up‑and‑downs and birdied both par‑5s coming in on the par‑3 on 16.   So just a solid day.   I hit it well, putted it well, got it down when I needed to to keep my momentum going.  
   
 Q.   Is this something you've been needing this year, you think, some breaks like that to maybe get things going?  
SCOTT BROWN:   I mean I played really good all year.   You know, I played decent at Pebble when I got in there and then I played the last two weeks on the Web.com Tour.   I finished third in Panama and seventh in Bogota.   I haven't been making a lot of putts, but I've been hitting it really good and a lot of the putts haven't been going in, I think good putts.   So I knew it was coming.   This week I just putted really well.  
   
 Q.   What's your thoughts on going into tomorrow then, the weekend?  
SCOTT BROWN:   I'm just going to keep trying to do the same thing.   I played well here last year, so I'm kind of trying to feed off last year's momentum a little bit and really just hit ‑‑ I'm driving it well, so I've kind of put myself in a good position off the tee, being aggressive into some greens.   So hopefully the putter will stay hot.  
   
 Q.   You're in the last pairing tomorrow.   Have you been in a final pairing on the weekend in recent?  
SCOTT BROWN:   I don't know.   I've been close.   I don't know that I've been in the last.   I think I've been in the last few a couple times last year.   But it'll be a new experience.   I'm looking forward to it.  
   
 Q.   Back to the putter, have you done anything different this week?   Make any changes?  
SCOTT BROWN:   Not really.   Just kind of just freed up.   You know, I just said ‑‑ I just tried to make it simple.   Just try to look where I want it to go and putt it there.   Kind of trying to get rid of all of the mechanical ‑‑ I guess mechanical stuff in there.   Just go back to feel and just putt it in.  
   
 Q.   Is this your first time playing here or have you played here?  
SCOTT BROWN:   Last year.  
   
 Q.   Is there something about the course you like?  
SCOTT BROWN:   I don't know.   It fits my eye really well.   I finished fifth here last year.   I played good.   It's just ‑‑ I think Bermuda is one thing, I grew up in the Southeast, Augusta, Georgia, so I guess Bermudagrass is kind of home to me.  
   
 Q.   Yeah, I've heard a lot of that this week.   Everybody is happy to get back on the Bermuda?  
SCOTT BROWN:   Absolutely, yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT