THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 24, 2017
Scott Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What was your game plan today?
SCOTT BROWN: Really two different nines out here.  The first nine is very tough, long for me.  You know, I've got to kind of play a little bit conservative on the front and try to get pars and maybe get some birdie looks if I can.
Then the back nine, you can score on and that's kind of the game plan.  Just kind of do what I can on the front and then try to go get some birdies on the back.
Q. You're one of the few, you actually came out here last year.  What were the circumstances there and what did you think of it?
SCOTT BROWN: It was a little different.  When I came, the rough was a little lower.  And I don't think they were quite sure that they were going to play No. 1 as a par 4 or 5 yet, so I played it as a par 5 when I came, which I liked a lot better (laughter).  But fairly the same.  I mean, it was in great condition when I played it.
Q. How did you wind up here last year?
SCOTT BROWN: Well, I missed the cut at Bethpage and just kind of -- one of the pros in the area, said, why don't you go over to Glen Oaks, I'll set it up for you.  Just came over here and played on Saturday.
Q. Did something click late in the season?
SCOTT BROWN: You know, not really.  It's just my iron play's kind of improved lately, so I've given myself a few more looks.  And I've been putting nicely the last half of the year.  So I think just the combination of getting a few more good looks at it has kind of shown up.
Q. Looking back, how helpful was it to come here and play last year?
SCOTT BROWN: Well, it's always helpful.  Any time you see a golf course more than -- we're used to seeing it, really one or two times for the week; basically I've seen it three times.
But I didn't really take in much.  Just, you know, kind of got a feel of tee shots more than anything when I came here.  Because I don't know if they were quite certain when I came what they were to quite do with the hole routing when I came here last year -- anyway, not much of anything.  Really lines off the tees and kind of fiddled around the greens a little bit.
Q. There was a match between you and Kisner against you and Jordan and Charley, who won that match?
SCOTT BROWN: Charley and Jordan beat us.
Q. Close?
SCOTT BROWN: Well, it's kind of close, yeah.  I think they got us 1- or 2-up or something.  Just nine holes.  We needed the back nine.
Q. You're always paired with Kevin.  I don't know where you are on The Presidents Cup list, but how cool would that be?
SCOTT BROWN: Awesome.  I think it would be really cool.  I don't really know where I'm at on the list.  I'm probably really far down there.  I probably have to win all the FedExCup tournaments to get in there.  But it would be awesome I think.  I mean, for us to do it -- we really do mesh well.  You saw at Zurich, we play well when we're together and we understand each other's game.  He'll have a lot of good partners on that team, though.
Q. You guys almost never lose; right?
SCOTT BROWN: We haven't lost many times in our career.
Q. How often you used driver and how can you describe the greens?
SCOTT BROWN: Every hole and 1-iron off the tee on 12 and then a 3-wood on 16 -- no, sorry, not 16; 14.
Q. What about 11?
SCOTT BROWN: Yeah, 11.  I'm sorry.  That's the hole, the kind of drivable hole.  That's the hole I hit iron on, sorry.  I get confused.
Q. What did you think of the greens?
SCOTT BROWN: They are great.  They are as good of putting surface as you'll get.  I think it's going to be really hard to make putts all week.  They are super undulating and you are usually putting up and over and there's a lot of break.  You've really got to hit it fairly close to make a lot of birdies.
Q. So you play the holes backwards?
SCOTT BROWN: Yeah, you really do.  And the greens are kind of quadranted out where you really have to hit it -- you've got to kind of be sneaky-aggressive but then if you are, you could pay the penalty, but you'll have a good look.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT