THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 24, 2017
Scott Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You came in 65th in the FedExCup standings.  Tell us about your round?  
SCOTT BROWN: You know, really easy today believe it or not.  I actually didn't drive it as well as I would like.  For me it's one of my assets.  I didn't hit the driver particularly great for me.  Missed a few fairways early but managed to save some pars and then hit some really good iron shots there on the back nine and gave myself a lot of good looks.   
 Q.  It's been a nice stretch of play for you recently, and this season.  Coming to a golf course like this, tell us about Glen Oaks.  No one has any experience with it but it looks to be a beautiful course.  
SCOTT BROWN: It is.  It's awesome.  It's a tale of two different nines really.  The front nine is fairly long and really tough.  Really the first seven holes.  And then the back nine you can kind of score on so kind of the game plan was kind of take care of the first seven and see what you can do from there.   
 Q.  What did you find in the latter part of your round out there?  
SCOTT BROWN: I hit some good shots early.  Just didn't take advantage of my putts on the front nine but the first seven holes out here are really long for me and tough.  Kind of the game plan all week with me and John Tillery, went around here early in the week and we kind of said, the first seven, even par, and then you can kind of go get it after that.  Really, I hit a few close shots on the back nine.  Had some really tap-in birdies and then made a couple good, just really struck it well all day.  It was a fairly easy round.   
 Q.  You're inside the top 75 in the FedExCup, how much freedom does that give you?  
SCOTT BROWN: It's a little bit of freedom because you know you've got at least one more week.  But I haven't made it to Chicago before, and that was a goal, obviously to make it there and then obviously to East Lake if you go beyond that.  But I'm still working hard and trying to get to East Lake.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT