NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v HEAT
May 29, 2006
Dwyane Wade
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Talk about you knew that they were going to counter tonight and do something different.  It seems like early on they tried to get Tayshaun off.   
 DWYANE WADE:  Yeah, they did.  He came out very aggressive, something they really wanted to do.  He hit some tough shots.  They had good defense on them, I thought Antoine did a good job.  We stayed with it.  We stood everything they threw at us early on and got off to an early lead.   
  Q.  Talk about your mindset going into the fourth quarter.  You took over the game after not doing a whole lot in the third quarter.   
 DWYANE WADE:  Well, third quarter they came out very aggressive.  We came out with kind of a lack of energy.  They were taking me out of the game by doubling teaming me so I was getting off the ball.  Fourth quarter I wasn't going to let them do that.  I was going to be more aggressive and take the ball to the basket.  That was my whole thing.  Tonight I tried to get to the rim, and I shot 19 free throws, so that was a sign of aggressiveness.   
  Q.  You know Wednesday night is going to be tough going there.  Your mindset, the team's mindset, a chance to close them out?   
 DWYANE WADE:  Just like we've been doing every game, take one game at a time, know that they're going to come out very aggressive.  They're a great home team.  They'll come out with a lot of energy so we have to come out with our own and take everything they throw at us.  Just be there at the end to try to give yourself a chance.  We're hoping to get the next one.   
  Q.  Coach Riley has said that he hasn't seen anyone quite like you, that you're very special.  Shaq actually mentioned the Magic word.  When you hear those things, how do you respond to that?  Do you even believe it?   
 DWYANE WADE:  No, not really (laughing).  I mean, I'm just a kid inside of me that loves to play the game of basketball, getting the opportunity to on the highest level, and I'm just trying to do my best job at it.  Those guys, their names, Magic Johnson is a great player, I'm not even close to that.  I've got to win a lot of championships to get there.  I'm just a kid in a candy store right now trying to have one.  We're one of the best teams in the NBA and I'm getting a chance to show my ability and my talent.   
  Q.  Can you talk about the White Hot experience and what this has been like from a player's perspective to be on that home court?   
 DWYANE WADE:  It's been great.  Our fans do a great job.  From when I came in my rookie year, not seeing them seats have nobody in them until now before the game starts is truly amazing.  They did it great for us.  When the Pistons made the run in both Game 3 and Game 4, our crowd was really there to help us.  I think they understand how important they are to us, and hopefully we come back and have what they all want, and that's a chance to go to the finals in the next game.   
  Q.  Talk about how important the supporting staff was tonight, the Big U doing his thing, and Posey doing his thing, G.P. hitting big shots.  Talk about how important they were tonight and how important they'll be on Wednesday.   
 DWYANE WADE:  They've been important every game.  Udonis was really aggressive tonight, finally hit some shots -- to get some shots down the last two games, I think he's shooting about 50 percent the last two games after struggling.  They've been big for us.  Gary hitting a timely three that we needed.  That's what it's all about.  It's team ball.  You can't win it with one or two or three guys, you've got to win it with eight or nine guys at this time of year.  We understand that.  That's the way this team is put together, to have the depth to be able to play these games.  I'm proud of my guys, but I know they understand that we've still got to finish this series up.   
  Q.  You're a young guy, you'll have what I'm sure you hope to be a good career ahead of you.  You have teammates like Zo, Gary Payton, even Shaq that are sort of entering the twilight of their career, and there's this goal to win a championship.  Can you sense an overall sense of urgency with the squad?   
 DWYANE WADE:  No question.  Like I said before, the guys that you named, Alonzo wears it on his face.  He wants to win the championship, there's no question about it.  That's the reason he plays this game.  Of course Shaq, man, he wants to continue to define his greatness, and we just want to be a part of it.  We're going to do everything in our power not to have that feeling of non-completeness that we had last year.  We're on the right page, but we've still got a lot of basketball left.  It's fun with this group of guys because everybody is on the same page and we all want it for each other, so that's a good thing.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT