NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 6, 2014
Dwyane Wade
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Dwyane, did you have to do anything more than your usual postgame fluid, shakes, whatever it is you do?   Did you feel like you had to do more after last night?   
    DWYANE WADE:   Yeah, well, you know, we all talked to to try to hydrate a little bit more last night and today.   It's big for recovery, so that's what we'll be doing most of the day and even tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Dwyane, as somebody that's heavy on Twitter, did you follow the social media criticism?   And do you have any thoughts as to some of the Gatorade comments on LeBron?   
    DWYANE WADE:   No.   I have no thoughts on it.   LeBron gets criticism all over the place from everybody.   Us as athletes, we all do.   It's the nature of the beast.   It has nothing to do with basketball.   It has nothing to do with the Finals, so it really doesn't matter.   
   
 Q.   Did you feel like you need to to speak to somebody from Gatorade being that you're one of their sponsors?   
    DWYANE WADE:   Not at all, not at all.   
   
 Q.   Dwyane, is that shirt some kind of a subliminal message for you guys standing together and working against the wall?   Have been a very good team when you are against the world?  
    DWYANE WADE:   No, it's just when I felt like putting on this morning.   
   
 Q.   Any comments on Ray Allen's last night dunk?   
    DWYANE WADE:   It was nice, real nice.   He was Jesus Shuttlesworth.   
   
 Q.   Dwyane, like LeBron, you wear a lot of compression gear and padding under your uniform.   How essential is that stuff, given the contact that you guys absorb on a nightly basis?   And on a night like last night with the conditions, do you think that could have played a role in retaining more heat and making LeBron suffer the way he did?   
    DWYANE WADE:   For our game I think it's very important, the compression that we wear is needed.   I've been wearing it for many, many years, so it is needed.   
    Obviously we all understand the conditions of last night, but I think it's a little overblown from the sense of this is not the first time LeBron James cramped up.   It's not the first time an NBA player cramped up in a game.   I think it's a little overblown from that.   Obviously it was hot.   Obviously it was a problem, from that be standpoint, but it's not the first time he's cramped up.   I wish it could be the last but it might not be the last time.   
    So that has no bearing on the reason we lost the game at all.   And I think that's what the focus need to be on, about the game, more so than about LeBron cramping up.   
   
 Q.   I was going to ask a question about cramping:   Can you put it in perspective what it is like for an athlete when your body starts to shut down and how difficult it is to compete in that situation?   
    DWYANE WADE:   It's very difficult.   From the outside, oh, it's a cramp.   Can't play through a cramp?   But until you walk into‑‑ until you in that situation and you're in someone else's moccasins, you don't know what somebody else's body is going through.   It's not just a cramp you get, you know.   When you're in the bed sleeping at night, sometimes you might cramp up.   Your body has entered a whole new zone of dehydration.   You push yourself past the limit and it becomes the point where it's not one cramp, many multiple areas cramp up.   If a player like LeBron James coming out of the ballgame, down two, then it's serious.   It's not nothing to be joked about.   
    It was an issue.   If he could have continued to go, he would have went.   Obviously, he couldn't.   
   
 Q.   Dwyane, let's talk about what did cost you guys the game; the defense not what you used to.   What do you guys have to do better defensively to win Game 2?   
    DWYANE WADE:   Yeah, I mean, I thought we did a good job of‑‑ even thoughthey shot the ball exceptionally well all night long.   And if they're going to continue to shoot that way, it's going to be tough on us.   I thought we did a good job of getting to the guys early on, and later they got open shots.   The reason for the breakdowns, they do a good job of making you guess.   
    I think it all starts on the ball.   Got to to do a better job on the ball.   Manu Ginobili picked us apart last night, and we got to do a better job of containing that.   If we contain that, we are able to get to the shooters and protect the paint a little better.   
    I thought we did a great job until the end.   Danny Green got loose for a few, and you try to contain him the whole night but they did their job.   They stayed with it, they stayed with the game plan, and they got the shots to fall when they really needed it, and they blew the game open towards the end.   
   
 Q.   You guys came out in the third quarter playing at a high level.   What are you going to have to do going into this next game to make sure that you come out with the same intensity that you did in the third?   
    DWYANE WADE:   Obviously we're going to have to use our depth a little more, we got to go a little deeper into our bench.   This time of the year you can't leave anything to chance.   I look forward to us using more guys next game, keep guys fresher.   
    I feel part of our downfall in that game was mental and physical fatigue down the stretch.   You know, rotations and things that we normally do wasn't done last night.   It wasn't from not having the will or the want to do it.   
    So we got to be a little smarter, we got to go a little deeper into our depth so we are fresher and have the guys out on the floor at the end that we want and need out there.   
    THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Dwyane.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT