NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v HEAT
May 27, 2006
Dwyane Wade
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Just talk about how you and Shaq combined offensively tonight and one of your better performances together?   
 DWYANE WADE:  Yeah, especially in the playoffs.  It was kind of like myself and Shaq early, we were going to see what they do, and Shaq got aggressive early, then I got kind of aggressive early.  Things were working for us.  Then other guys stepped up for a while until we took it upon ourselves to once again be the leaders of the team and find a way for us to get a win.   
  Q.  Dwyane, you cut down on turnovers.  This evening Coach Riley said that you looked at some film and went to school on it and put it to work on the court.  What did you see in Game 2 that changed your performance tonight?   
 DWYANE WADE:  Well, they dropped me some and I was just throwing the ball without really looking, and they was getting a hand on my passes.  I made some sloppy, stupid turnovers.  Even without film prior to the game, I knew for us to win I can't have nine turnovers in a game.  So I decided to take it upon myself to be more aggressive, and then once they come, be strong passing the ball.   
 I understand that if we're going to beat this team because, they don't beat themselves, that we can't have too many turnovers.  Me as a leader who has the ball 50 percent of the time, I can't have the majority of the turnovers.   
  Q.  What did you tell yourself when they pulled within one?  What's going through your head?   
 DWYANE WADE:  You know what, that's their run.  NBA is a game full of runs.  They made their run, now we go to time-out, we regroup and played excellent offense and took the game from there.  We're a confident team, we understand that things are going to happen in ball games.  We stuck together, came out and scored and took it from there.   
  Q.  Talk about Antoine initially when the game started.  He was real aggressive and it carried on throughout the game, and talk about the two lobs to Shaq, also.   
 DWYANE WADE:  Well, Antoine is going to continue to be big in the series as they try to stop myself and Shaq.  Antoine is going to be very big, especially shooting the three.  Today he kind of got off the three some and penetrated and that's how we got the early dunks to Shaq because Antoine is a great passer.  We got it to Shaq early, and you want that.  You want to look for the big man, and that makes him happier than a lob, I'll tell you that.  Antoine did the right thing.   
  Q.  The lob that you fed to Shaq, as you said, nothing makes him happier.  Can you talk about that play to end the half and how that shows the connection that you guys really have and have established here?   
 DWYANE WADE:  Any time I drive to the rim and his man leaves him, he always tells me throw it up.  I try to do it at least 75, 80 percent of the time.  Just two of them a game from me and he's happy, so I do everything in my power to keep the big man happy.  It's a high percentage shot for us.  He's put most of them down, and we want them.  If we can throw it, we'll throw it to the basket.   
  Q.  There was a couple-minute span in the fourth quarter where I think the ball was out of bounds a couple times and then I think it was coming from a timeout, Rip was flailing his arms and it seemed to be normal contact.  What does a player do to not get frustrated and continue playing the game when situations like that occur?   
 DWYANE WADE:  I mean, I've been through this for a little while now.  I just understand that they're doing it to get under your skin and doing it for a reason.  If you see me, when it happens, I just shake my head or smile.  I'm not going to get into that body match.  That's not the way I play.  I use my quickness to get around guys.  It's an advantage for me.  It'll continue to happen, and I'll keep taking advantage of it.   
  Q.  Players talk about the couple guys on the court that have that will in the fourth quarter and I'm not going to lose that game.  How much of that do you have?   
 DWYANE WADE:  I have a lot.  My teammates depend on me, guys look at me and say, "it's your time."  That's all you need.  I go out there, they put the ball in my hands.  When I'm getting doubled or not, they find a way to get me the ball.  I find a way to make the right play.  There's been times I've made the wrong play, but they trust me.  I have faith in them, and hopefully that continues to work for us.   
  Q.  A lot of offensive players when they're going well, they say the game slows down.  When you're on an offensive roll like you've been, what are you seeing out there?  Are you seeing the defense before it even starts to break towards you?   
 DWYANE WADE:  I'm a student of the game so I understand how these guys are going to play me defensively.  I kind of know when I'm going through my moves where they're going to be.  It's just a matter of me getting off the ball at times and kind of attacking at times.  I'm kind of reading it when I'm getting the ball already.   
 Hopefully our team will watch how they're playing me, and hopefully we'll stay one step ahead of them and have an advantage.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT