NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v HEAT
May 25, 2006
Dwyane Wade
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Dwyane, how do you score 17 points in 1:46?   
 DWYANE WADE:  We did that?  Desperate, very desperate.  We should have played that way from the beginning of the half when we was down.  But, you know, resilient team.  Always going to fight.  That's how it's going to be, both teams are going to do that.   
  Q.  In Game 1, you talked about one of the keys being that a lot of other guys on your team stepped up other than you and Shaq.  You didn't seem to get that tonight.  Did they do something to take it away from those guys?   
 DWYANE WADE:  No.  I mean, guys had shots.  Unfortunately they didn't go down.  But I think we still got a lot of things that we wanted.  But the problem to us wasn't offensive.  We got what we wanted offensively, even though they did turn the pressure up a little bit, we still got offensively what we wanted, but it was defensively early on.  The way we started the night, they were making a lot of shots early on and got them into a groove.  That was a big difference in the game.  Then the third quarter they got off to a big lead, but we were still there and had an opportunity.   
  Q.  A lot of turnovers tonight.  Was it what they were doing or something where you guys might have been out of sync tonight?   
 DWYANE WADE:  I don't know.  There was a couple of them where we kind of rushed the passes.  They did a good job with pressure.  I'm not like them, I'm going to give them credit.  They did a good job of that.  We've got to do a better job taking care of the ball.   
  Q.  Don't you think they give you credit when you play better and you win?   
 DWYANE WADE:  No.  We don't get credit.  They was tired.  That's what y'all said.  That's why we won the first game.  We won one, go back to Miami Game 3, come out with a lot of intensity.   
  Q.  I'm sure you guys talked in the locker room before the game about coming out with intensity tonight.  What happened when you guys got out on the floor?   
 DWYANE WADE:  Like I said, they came out aggressive, but we came out and missed shots and they came out and made shots.  That's a big difference in any ballgame, but we still took everything that they threw at us and we still came back, kept fighting, kept fighting, but they were the better team tonight, no way to get around that.   
  Q.  You talked yesterday at practice about expecting them to be more aggressive against you personally and they seemed to be that way tonight.  Did you notice that especially early on?   
 DWYANE WADE:  When we come up the court and Rip doing that bumping stuff, that's the only thing I seen.  Maybe I'll try it and see if I can get away with it.  Besides that, it was a normal game.   
 For me I still got a chance to penetrate and pass the ball to my guys, and I still got some shots that I wanted.  I took some shots, made 50 percent of them.  Besides me coming up the court and him bumping me, wasn't nothing different.   
  Q.  There's no moral victory, of course, but the way you close out this game, is there any momentum to be gleaned, to take into Saturday?   
 DWYANE WADE:  No, I mean, the only thing that you can take from it is we've got to have that same aggressiveness.  We've got to have that same want throughout the game.  You can't do it against a Detroit team, dig yourself into a hole because this team will not beat themselves; you have to beat them.  Have that same resilience that we had at the end of the game in Game 3.  That's it.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT