NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v HEAT
May 24, 2006
Dwyane Wade
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  How encouraging was it to know that you guys could win here on the road and you only played half the game?   
 DWYANE WADE:  Very encouraging.  Our team, when me and Shaq was out of the game, did a great job.  When it looked like it was going the other way they were making shots and making plays, and all the credit goes to them.   
  Q.  Is this a different team than what the Pistons saw in the regular season from you guys?   
 DWYANE WADE:  No question.  I think everyone is saying that, that we're finally the team that coach Riley envisioned when he made the trade.  Right now we're playing team ball on both ends of the floor, and that's very key.   
  Q.  Seems like you guys are healthy, you're playing your best ball at the right time and the Pistons aren't.   
 DWYANE WADE:  We're not going to worry about them, we're going to worry about us.  We're going to continue to play our game.  We know it's going to be tough.  There's going to be spots in games when shots are not going to fall.  Defensively they're going to be able to score, but we've got to be able to withstand everything they throw at us and be there at the fourth.   
  Q.  Do you concern yourself with adjustments they make, or is it just all you guys?   
 DWYANE WADE:  Yeah, you know they're going to come out and make adjustments, but there's nothing that we don't know they're going to make.  They're going to come out with a little more pressure from the start of the game.  We've got to be smart, be patient and make the plays that's there and get easy shots.   
  Q.  How do you not get caught up in the mindset of, hey, we got one here, what we needed, maybe a let-down tomorrow?   
 DWYANE WADE:  If we do that, then we're not in the mindset of we want to win a world championship.  We've just got to come out with a lot of force tomorrow early just like we did in Game 1.  Take every game for what it is.  That's the game, and it's a big game, and don't worry about going back home and thinking you're safe because New Jersey was up one on us and we won the next four games.  We understand that.   
  Q.  Did they look tired to you because they took the day off thinking that they were tired.   
 DWYANE WADE:  I don't know.  It's the end of the year.  We're all day.  That's not an excuse.   
  Q.  What's the motto on this team right now?   
 DWYANE WADE:  The motto on this team?  This team right now is a confident team that right now is playing together.   
  Q.  I just heard you shouting it out on the floor.  It began with "no."   
 DWYANE WADE:  What is it?   
  Q.  No excuses.   
 DWYANE WADE:  There you go, I like that one, no excuses.   
  Q.  Why would that be the motto of the team?   
 DWYANE WADE:  Because there really isn't.  We've been together from pre-season over 100 games now.  We see how it works when we do it together; it looks good.  When we go back and we just get two guys try to do everything, then it don't look so pretty and it's pretty tough.  There's no excuses right now at the end of the year, this is the conference finals and this is what we've worked hard to get back to this point right now, and just take advantage of it.   
  Q.  When did Pat Riley kind of get that message across to you?  To us it was maybe on Sunday when he started talking about no excuses.  When did he say that to you guys?   
 DWYANE WADE:  I think as soon as the series started, he's been very blunt.  He hasn't used no motivational speeches, right now we're just trying to get it done, and we understand that.  We've got a lot of guys on this team, veteran guys that this could be one of their last opportunities, and we've got to take advantage of it.  I think they understand that.  We've got a lot of old guys on the team.   
  Q.  You've pretty much seen every defense you can see against you, and you've got to anticipate they're not going to play you the way they did yesterday.  Do you guys feel like you're ready for whatever they might throw at you tomorrow?   
 DWYANE WADE:  Well, we've got to be.  I think it's going to be trying to get the ball in my hands a little bit, but I think they're going to come with a little more pressure, so the other guys got to be ready to attack when they get the ball.  I think Udonis is going to be a big night tomorrow, especially if they're coming off him like they did towards the end of the game and was trapping me at the top of the key.  He can get the ball in the middle and really have a great game.  Guys got to step up, and I think they understand that, so we'll be looking forward to it.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT