NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v HEAT
May 23, 2006
Dwyane Wade
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Dwyane, you seem to be able to drive the lane with impunity tonight.  Did that surprise you? 
 DWYANE WADE:  Not really.  I think our guys did a great job of screening, and when guys making shots on the outside, it's kind of hard to leave them open, so hopefully that continues. 
 Q.  You seemed to be in the zone tonight.  Talk about that Pistons defense, didn't play real well, you guys played great. 
 DWYANE WADE:  We played all right.  I think we came out early, really focused, had a lot of energy.  We've been off for seven days, so we used that early on and made shots.  Our game plan was to get the ball to Shaq early and I got an attack and got off to a great start, and that start gave us confidence for the rest of the game.  Even when they made a run, we still had the confidence. 
 Q.  After the great start you had to sit for a while with foul trouble.  How frustrating was that to sit there and watch, and then talk about your fourth quarter when you finally got out there and played well. 
 DWYANE WADE:  It's tough to sit.  We're used to playing a lot of minutes.  But my teammates did a great job of keeping the lead until halftime and making plays.  I was in the groove tonight, and I didn't really get a chance to use my groove night tonight.  Hopefully I can pick up where I started from or left off in Game 2. 
 Q.  What do you have to do differently to make sure you don't get into that foul trouble in the first place? 
 DWYANE WADE:  I don't know.  Games are called different.  I'm just going to continue to be aggressive, be a little smarter, but at the same time continue to be aggressive, and hopefully things go my way next time. 
 Q.  Considering you won this one after 3 and 4 in Miami, how big is Thursday for you guys? 
 DWYANE WADE:  It's a big game.  We take it one game at a time, that's what we did tonight.  We're going to come out Thursday and try to win the ballgame.  That's what we do, put ourselves in position on the road to win the ballgame in the fourth quarter.  We're going to try, just like we did tonight. 
 Q.  Obviously getting Game 1 on the road is big no matter what, but winning a game when you're limited to 26 minutes and Shaq is in foul trouble, does that make even a bigger psychological boost for you guys, that it was other guys that came up and made big plays? 
 DWYANE WADE:  Well, yeah.  Our guys have been doing that from the Chicago series, the whole New Jersey series and beginning of this one.  Our guys are stepping up.  Alonzo played big for us tonight on both ends of the floor, Antoine was once again solid, Jason hit some shots, so we had a lot of guys step up tonight and do different things.  For you to win this time of the year that's what's going to have to happen.  Like I said, hopefully that continues to happen. 
 Q.  Did sitting a lot the first three quarters help you in the fourth quarter?  Did you feel really fresh? 
 DWYANE WADE:  Yeah, I was very fresh, good way to get back in the ballgame.  I played the whole first quarter and after that maybe played six more minutes until the fourth.  I was waiting for my time to get in, and once I got in I knew I was going to be aggressive, shooting the ball, had the ball in my hands.  That rest actually did help me some, but at the same time I would have loved to have been in there in the second and third quarter, but it didn't happen for me tonight.  Hopefully it's a different story next game. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT