NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 18, 2006
Dwyane Wade
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. When you got selected for this, you sounded doubtful about your own chances and now you won, I mean, what happened? 
 DWYANE WADE:  I don't know, man.  I just went out there and I just competed, like everybody else.  I kind of knew early on I was going to get the passes down.  I was just worried about that top-of-the-key jumpshot, what you see everybody had trouble on. 
 Just was competing, man.  It was fun. 
 Q.  Did you do any practicing for this event? 
 DWYANE WADE:  No.  Only practice was early on.  We all came out just to get the court down and everything.  I'm sorry, I didn't even watch it on the DVD they gave me.  I decided to wing it, that's the kind of player I am, just come out and wing it anyway, so it worked again. 
 Q.  When you made it the finals, did you think your time was going to hold up?  Because I saw you looking up when Nash was there, were you concerned? 
 DWYANE WADE:  You know, with 39 seconds, and seeing that Nash had the record with 25, not at all.  But seeing that he had trouble with the jumpshot, it was shocking.  I thought Nash was going to knock that down right away. 
 But it was good, man.  And LeBron going 33 in the finals, I didn't know what to expect, but I hit that jumpshot and I kind of knew from there that I was going to be holding the trophy up. 
 Q.  The first time when you were having trouble with the top-of-the-key jumpshot, would it have been easier to picture some Pistons guarding you there? 
 DWYANE WADE:  I don't know.  (Laughing). 
 It would have been easier if I was listening to my teammates.  Shaq was on the side, "Leave it up, leave it up."  The second time, I decided I didn't want to hear his mouth no more, so I decided to leave it up and gave it a chance and made the shot. 
 Q.  What about next year, defend your title, set the record? 
 DWYANE WADE:  Yeah, man, I'm going to be in Vegas no matter what next year.  No matter what happens, I'm in Vegas next year.  Get the family and let's go.  Vegas, here I come.  (Laughter). 
 Q.  How do you feel about that section who got PSP's just because of you? 
 DWYANE WADE:  I feel great.  They was saying, "We love Wade," and it's great anytime fans, you know, like you.  Anytime they like you, I think section 416, they did a great job rooting me on.  I'm glad I can give them a gift and give them a PlayStation. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT