NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v HEAT
June 2, 2005
Dwyane Wade
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Can you just take us through what happened and what you're feeling right now in terms of the injury? 
 
DWYANE WADE:  Well, right now I'm just feeling pain.  You know, I just made a quick move on a crossover and I guess I pulled a muscle by doing that.  It's just pain right now.  I expect that, so hopefully I'll feel better in the morning.  
 
Q.  Did you try to continue playing, is that what happened?  Stan said you made a couple trips up and down the court and decided you couldn't play through it. 
 
DWYANE WADE:  Yeah, I tried to come back because we've got a lot of guys on our team that's playing through a lot.  I tried to come back and see if I get out there and get going that it will feel better, but I couldn't, and I didn't want to make it any worse.  And I had confidence that my team could get this victory, and they did.  
 
Q.  When exactly did the injury occur?  Was it the jumper to make it a 20-point lead, is that when it happened?
 
DWYANE WADE:  Yes. 
 
Q.  And when you took the charge on Rasheed, did that make it any worse?
 
DWYANE WADE:  No.  I took the charge because I couldn't move.  Actually I was glad he was coming at me.  (Laughter). I wanted to stop play anyway, so I think it was a good way to go out.  
 
Q.  Is there any doubt in your mind that you're going to play Game 6? 
 
DWYANE WADE:  No, I'm not wondering.  I feel that our staff will do everything in their power to get me prepared for the game.  If I feel that I can go out and help my team, I will play.  If I feel that I'm going to go out there and hurt my team, then I won't.  I've got all of the confidence in the world, with me being young, hopefully I can bounce back real quick. 
 
Q.  Considering the timing of this, is this kind of frustrating, obviously when your team needs you the most, your situation is sort of in doubt now. 
 
DWYANE WADE:  Oh, it sucks, yeah, no question.  I haven't really been hurt all season too much, and to get this injury on something that was just, you know, a quick move, something that I do probably a hundred times a game, it sucks.  But like I said, all I can do now is just try to get better for the next game so I can be out there with my teammates.  Main thing is I'm proud of them guys for really gutting this win out and I'm home and moving on to Game 6.  
 
Q.  Are you in pain now?  What's the pain feel like, and has anything like this ever happened to you before?
 
DWYANE WADE:  Yeah, it happened before.  I sat out four games early in the season something similar to this.  It's just any movement to my left or to my right is going to hurt.  I guess my wife is going to sleep on another bed tonight, because if she hits me then there's going to be problems. It's painful, I'll take the medicine that the doctors gave me and hopefully it goes away a little bit.  
 
Q.  Is it on your right side? 
 
DWYANE WADE:  Right side. 
 
Q.  Stan said it felt like, and it was his description, not yours, that it felt like knives were coming into your side.  Is that kind of accurate or does it feel like something else? 
 
DWYANE WADE:  I never had knives come into my side.  (Laughter).  Hopefully it never happens.  It was a sharp pain, that's the only pain I felt.  
 
Q.  Considering the location of it, how much does it restrict you from lateral movement or whatever type of movement, considering how athletic your game is? 
 
DWYANE WADE:  Well, as you see when I came back, I couldn't continue because movement is very key and I couldn't move either direction really, only go straight.  So hopefully I can get better and hopefully I can get better, I'll come back and be able to keep embarking on this great season that we're having.  
 
Q.  You said you had some semblance of this and missed four games, was it on the right side or was it something similar?
 
DWYANE WADE:  It was on the left side.  So this is the first time on my right side. It just feels like a pulled muscle.  Just feels like with me making a quick move, it's kind of like a whiplash through my body.  Like I said, hopefully me being young, I can recupe real fast and get ready for Game 6.  
 
Q.  How much of a relief is it for you to see that even in tonight's game, your team can hold up a lead and come out with a win with you not having to put up 30 or in tonight's case, 20 points going into Game 6?
 
DWYANE WADE:  It's good.  I think this is the first time as a team, with Shaq getting back healthy and guys coming out in the first time in a couple of games that we came out and everybody was a big, big part of it.  You know, it was great.  This is the right time to do it.  We need to do it again in Game 6.  We don't need to rely on one, two or three people.  Everybody's got to come and do it.  This team has been great with that.  I'm happy for those guys that don't get a lot of credit.  Other teammates normally get a lot of credit, to have them get the win convincingly the way they did says a lot.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT