NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 5, 2014
Dwyane Wade
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.   Dwyane, can you talk about just how the Spurs seemed to respond in the fourth quarter when it appeared that LeBron was out? 
    DWYANE WADE:   I don't think that was the reason they responded.   You know, miscommunication on the rotation for us when Danny Green hit that one three, then he came out, they ran another play, he got another three with Ray right there.   They made shots, you know, we ran‑‑ we made a few mistakes and they capitalized off of them.   And they ran the offense to the tee and got the shots they wanted and made them. 
    Obviously when LeBron went out for us in a two‑point game is not ideal, but we gotta get better shots on the offensive end.   We didn't, we turned it over a few times.   We didn't get good looks and you can't do that versus this team. 

Q.   I know it's quickly, but any word on LeBron yet that you know? 
    DWYANE WADE:   No. 

Q.   Knowing him the way you know him, do you think he will be able to play in Game 2? 
    DWYANE WADE:   Yes. 

Q.   What's the frustration level that with all the turnovers they had the first three quarters, that you guys didn't have a bigger lead or bigger cushion to go into the fourth quarter? 
    DWYANE WADE:   I mean, not really.   They had 22 turnovers, we scored 28 points, but on the flip side we gave up 27 points in transition.   That's a wash, you know? 
    We had opportunities, we was up seven and they cut it real fast, which they're going to do.   Good teams make runs and not let it go too much.   Most important for us is we don't want to make mistakes, coming down the stretch.   Whether it's fatigue, whatever the case may be, you can't give them open looks and they buried us with those open looks.   We played a phenomenal game on the road up to that point, and they played a better last five minutes to win the ballgame. 
    You know, that's how the series is going to be.   You know, if we want to win it, we're going to have to buckle down and really get the stops and make 'em take tougher shots in the game when it's time to win the ballgame. 

Q.   Dwyane, when LeBron comes back on and makes that basket and right away puts his hand up to come out, how deflating is that?   And did you know right away that was probably it for him? 
    DWYANE WADE:   Yeah, you know, you don't want to see your best player come out of the game, anytime, especially when he couldn't put pressure on his other leg. 
    I don't know what happened, all I know is they said we had to get him off the court before we got charged a time‑out.   So we were trying to get him to the sideline because we only had one left. 
    But he'll be fine.   He has some days in between.   That guy is‑‑ he gets sprained ankles or certain things that happen to him, he bounces right back.   So he'll be fine.   Obviously tonight we would have loved to have him in there to finish the game, but we gotta finish the game better, no matter who is on the floor. 

Q.   Have you ever played a game with conditions like this before? 
    DWYANE WADE:   I mean, yeah, not in the NBA, not in The Finals.   But we all have.   If you played basketball, you play basketball where it's hot like this.   I think everybody has done it before.   But I'm sure it will be a lot better on Sunday.   Yeah.   It will be a lot better. 
    THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Dwyane.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT