NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v HEAT
May 29, 2005
Dwyane Wade
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. One of their goals for Game 3 was to try to limit your touches and limit your looks and really try to prevent you from having the type of game you had in Game 2, but it seemed in the first half you were able to score and shoot pretty much at will.  Can you talk about their defensive effort against you and whether it bothered you at all. 
 
DWYANE WADE:  I knew it was going to be hard getting the same looks that I got in Game 2, so every time I got the opportunity, when I was one-on-one, I was trying to attack.  I hit a couple shots early and got going.  The basket started looking big for me.  I just tried to attack it and I got into a rhythm early on and it kept me going through the game. 
 
Q.  Obviously you had 36 points, so you had a good night.  Can you talk about the stretch when Lindsey Hunter was guarding you and what kind of a different look Hunter gives you?
 
DWYANE WADE:  I mean, he's just a lot shorter than me.  Once you get the ball in your hands it's fine but him being short and very active with long arms, he's a great pressure defender.  Once I get the ball I'm fine. 
 
Q.  When you left the game you guys were down by four or five points, when you came back with 3:30 left in the game you were up by nine.  What did they prove to you picking you up while you were out?
 
DWYANE WADE:  What they were proving to me all season, that this is a great team.  Rasual did a great job of going in.  With my five fouls he really went in and I'm very confident in him and he went in and played good.  When Detroit made a run, we was down, we came back strong and went up 10.  This is a very good ball club, it's not just one or two guys. 
 
Q.  Can you talk about that stretch in the fourth quarter, what did you guys do to hold them?
 
DWYANE WADE:  We just tried to pick up the defense intensity.  That's going to be key in this whole series is which team is playing the better defense.  We tried to pick it up in the fourth and Shaq and Zo really drove us to that, told us, let's dig down defensively, rebound the ball.  Once we do that we're a good offensive team so we can put the ball in the basket. 
 
Q.  What were you thinking when you were sitting on the bench watching the team win without you? 
 
DWYANE WADE:  I was just happy.  I was hoping they kept it going until I got back in there.  I was proud of the guys.  When I went out we were down four or five and they came back real fast.  Just proud, happy, just waiting until I got back in there so I could finish the game off with them.  
 
Q.  In the last four minutes, they seemed to start unraveling with the two by Rasheed and Chauncey Billups.  Were you surprised they lost their head?
 
DWYANE WADE:  No, I wasn't surprised that they lost their head like that.  I think this is a team that gained a lot of respect, I feel they deserve a lot of respect.  I was more surprised that the refs called it than getting on the refs.  At the time they did it it was a crucial moment in the game, but that's what they believe in.  They believe that everything they do works, and they should get the calls.  You know, they didn't and we got some techs, too, but we just didn't get them at the end.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT