NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v HEAT
May 28, 2005
Dwyane Wade
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Is this the most important game of the season?
 
DWYANE WADE:  It's a very important game.  I won't say it's the most important game of the season, but it's the most important game that we've got coming up.  
 

Q.  What's your mindset going here in Game 3?
 
DWYANE WADE:  I mean, going down there, we've got to play better than we played at home.  Everybody is just coming in with confidence, be attackers.  Whatever they throw at us, we've going to be able to withstand that and cover everything, so we've got to be very smart on the road. 
 

Q.  Do you feel like your back is against the wall a little bit because of the simple fact you guys lost home court here?
 
DWYANE WADE:  Not really.  We're not really thinking like that.  We're very confident that we can go up there and win, so we're just thinking that coming into Game 3, do everything we can to win. 
 

Q.  The word on the street is Detroit is going to send everything but the kitchen sink at you to try to stop you from having one of those offensive outbursts that you had in Game 2.  Are you looking forward to the challenge?
 
DWYANE WADE:  Always looking forward to a challenge.  If that's something they do, then I'll look for help from my teammates, and I'm not worried about it at all. 
 

Q.  What do you expect they're going to change?
 
DWYANE WADE:  I have no clue.  I can't even think -- I don't worry myself of what they're going to change.  I've just got to go out there and play my game and whatever they throw at me, then make adjustments. 
 

Q.  How about the crowd out there?  Eddie was saying they're really belligerent out there as far as the shouting.  How is it out there on the court when you're the away team coming to visit The Palace?
 
DWYANE WADE:  Like I said, I don't think it makes a big difference to an away team, you're just so focused on the game.  I think it just helps them more, just like when we're at home it helps us more and because of the energy that the crowd brings, they set out almost every game.  So the energy is going to be there for them, and we've got to be able to withstand that and make our other energy. 
 
Q.  Is it important for you to get into your game early, first quarter, early in the game?
 
DWYANE WADE:  No question.  You don't want them to get going early with the crowd behind them with the confidence that they have at home, so we've got to try to come out early and jump on them. 
 
Q.  Why was your home and away record so different?
 
DWYANE WADE:  We're supposed to win at home, we're supposed to go .500 on the road.  That's what we thought going in, that's what we wanted to do, and I think we did it.  We accomplished our goals for the regular season. 
 
Q.  Now you're going to Detroit.  How do you change those expectations?
 
DWYANE WADE:  I mean, we just take it one game at a time.  You're not really worrying about where you're playing, you're just worrying about the game in itself.  We just go out there and play our game and not worry whether we're home or away. 
 

Q.  You guys are 4-0 in the first two rounds on the road, kind of easy games for you guys.  Is this kind of your first true road test here this post-season?
 
DWYANE WADE:  It wasn't easy games at all.  We went into double overtime in a couple.  Just because we won, people said it was easy.  They were tough games.  I think this team is battle tested on the road, but we're going into a hostile environment with a team that's very good, so we've got to go in there and take care of business, do our job.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT