NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v HEAT
May 24, 2005
Dwyane Wade
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Losing Game 1 at home, what is this team's mindset?
 
DWYANE WADE:  Come out and play better in Game 2 and get Game 2 and take it from there. 
 

Q.  Is it damaging to a team's psyche to lose home court advantage like that?
 
DWYANE WADE:  No, we're not looking at it like that.  We're just looking at it like we've got another game and we've got to get the next game.  This is a series where either team is good enough to go in another team's space and win on the road.  We're not looking at it as we lost one at home, so we're doomed. 
 

Q.  How much more aggressive do you and Damon have to be?
 
DWYANE WADE:  I mean, Damon, we want him to be more aggressive.  I mean, I'm always aggressive.  Last night I took 25 shots.  I was aggressive enough, I just have to be more efficient. 
 

Q.  What were they doing to frustrate you last night?  
 
DWYANE WADE:  No.  They did a good job of sending different defenders at me and they made me take a couple tough shots sometimes, and sometimes I missed a lot of good shots that I always get. 
 

Q.  You have a history of sort of coming back after a bad game and getting another game, putting it together.  Is that something that you study film, that you go to school on?  What happened, or talk about your bounce-back knack. 
 
DWYANE WADE:  It's something I've been doing since college.  You go back and study the film over and over, and you come back the next game and just try to do better.  As a player, you always come in and try to do better next game, whether it's a good game or whether it's a bad game. 
 
Q.  When are you going to look at all this film?
 
DWYANE WADE:  As soon as I get done with you guys. 
 
Q.  How many hours do you think it's going to be?
 
DWYANE WADE:  I don't know, as much as I need, until I know what I did wrong. 
 
Q.  Stan said he didn't do a good enough job helping you out last night.  What did he mean by that?
 
DWYANE WADE:  Maybe just not giving me different looks.  Most of my stuff came on isolation or on pull-ups, so maybe he wanted to get me to come off more screens, get different looks.  I don't know exactly what he means, but I'm going to go talk to him and see what he meant. 
 
Q.  When you were driving, can you just describe what you saw in terms of defense?  
 
DWYANE WADE:  Exactly that.  I mean, once you get by one defender, there's a good defensive team, so they clogged the lane up pretty well.  They've got two and three guys who can block shots, McDyess and Wallace and the other Wallace, so they're a very long team, and once you get by one defender you're going to see some more. 
 
Q.  How long do you think those arms seemed to be once you --
 
DWYANE WADE:  Really, I didn't drive as much as I normally do.  It was more so getting down there, trying to make a pass out to my teammates.  That's what you seen their length because you really couldn't find nobody because they were so long all around. 
 
Q.  Was that what they've done the other games that they played this year to you?
 
DWYANE WADE:  No.  They've done different things, different schemes. 
 
Q.  Do you feel there was much of their defense playing a factor in your game last night, or you just had an off-night?
 
DWYANE WADE:  I'm not going to take this credit away from their defense.  They did a good job, but also I did miss some shots.  It was a little bit of both.  I was missing some shots, I was going too fast.  I'm a player who takes his time to do a lot of things, and yesterday I was just speeding myself up.  I'll just come out in Game 2 and make the adjustments.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT