NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v PACERS
May 29, 2014
Dwyane Wade
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Dwyane, when tomorrow comes, 8:30 comes, Spo said it's all about the game.   It's not about yesterday.   It's not about the rest you may get.   Compartmentalizing this thing.   Is that easier said than done, or for a veteran club, is that what you guys can do?   
DWYANE WADE:   That's what has to be done.   You're under control, and for us, we're at home to close out a series.   That's the best scenario for us or for any team.   So we're in a good position.  
   
 Q.   Was today just a day to put yesterday to rest, talk about whatever you need to talk about, and it's done with?   
DWYANE WADE:   Yeah, like every other win‑loss.   You come in, you talk about what you need to, you go over what you need to, and you get prepared for the next one.  
   
 Q.   3‑2, you guys are up in front of the home crowd.   It's got to be exciting and an extra motivation for you guys tomorrow.   
DWYANE WADE:   Yeah, like I said, to have an opportunity to close out the series at home is ideal for anyone.   We're a pretty good home team, but we've got to come out, and we've got to play a good game.   
This team is going to fight to the very end.   It's a 48‑minute game.   It has to be.   They've seen it all, we've seen it all.   It's been a great battle so far, and we're just going to continue it.  
   
 Q.   You talk about you've seen it all.   On top of everything, Lance got fined, Roy got fined, both for flopping.   Do you recall a night that has so many bizarre twists as that one did?   
DWYANE WADE:   I don't know.   That's the freshest one in my mind.   
It was a lot of things going on within that game, and I think both teams showed a mental toughness, in a sense, when things wasn't going well either way, and it became a good game.   It became a one‑possession game at the end, and that's the way you want it, especially as a road team, to give yourselves a chance to win.   
So it's no moral victories at all, but I felt that we did our job on the road to try to put ourself in a position to win even though a lot of things didn't go the way we wanted to or planned it to coming into the game.   
Very bizarre game, weird game, but it's over.  
   
 Q.   It was quoted today saying that everybody is pretty much in everybody's huddle all year.   Is there a line now?   Do you think Lance went over it with what he did with Spo, or is it all fair game?   
DWYANE WADE:   Whatever is whatever.   Whatever you get away with is fair game.   That's the way it goes.  
   
 Q.   Do you think at some point that someone should say something?   Don't you think it's kind of disrespectful the fact that he went into your huddle?   
DWYANE WADE:   That's not really our huddle.   We have to play our game.   We can't really get into it for a guy walking into our huddle.   If your focus is on that, your focus is not on the right thing.   
Everyone has their own tactics, their own antics.   What we have to do and what we've always done is we have to focus on the task at hand.   We have to focus on the game of basketball.   We win more times than not when we do that.  
   
 Q.   If a teammate of yours pulled the antics, blowing in the ear and all that, would you pull him aside privately and say‑‑  
DWYANE WADE:   Our teammates wouldn't do that.   This is not how we are.   We focus‑‑ like I said, we focus and concentrate on basketball.   
Everyone chats and talks, and that's the game of basketball, but when we see our teammate not being‑‑ what we feel is not being involved in what we're trying to do, we pull him away.   Whether it's talking to the refs too much or whether that's feeling sorry for yourself, whatever the case may be, we bring him back in.   That's the way we've been successful.   
But that's the Miami Heat.   Everyone has their own ways.   Like I said, our focus is not on how they do things.   It's about winning the ball games.  
   
 Q.   It will be a Friday night in Miami.   Would you like to see Heat fans give Stephenson the treatment?   
DWYANE WADE:   I would just like our Heat fans to come out and give us what I know they're going to give us.   It's going to be a hell of a crowd.   Can't have a better night in Miami to have a basketball game.   
It's Game 6 of these conference finals, so I know that environment is going to be amazing.   All I want them to do is come and support their team.  
   
 Q.   Speaking of knowing what the fans are going to do after a rough game like that, I know you'll come out inspired.   Can you imagine LeBron, after he had to sit all that time, what he's going to come out with?   
DWYANE WADE:   I'm very excited.   I'm very excited.   It wasn't ideal for us to have him play 24 minutes, but I do know that guy, and I know how he responds.   So I'm good with it now.   Now I'm good with it because I know he's going to come out and put his mark on the game, whichever way that may be, and that gives us the best opportunity to win.  
   
 Q.   Dwyane, you point to the fact that you got only eight free throws as a team last night as a function of what?   
DWYANE WADE:   We only got eight free throws.   I don't know.   You play the games each game, and each game's different.   So we can't worry about that.   Got to move on to Game 6 and still be aggressive and just see what happens.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT