NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v PACERS
May 23, 2014
Dwyane Wade
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Is it different preparing for Paul George or without Paul George?   How are you guys going into that mindset? 
DWYANE WADE:   You don't prepare without someone.   You always prepare for them on both sides this time of the year. 
So we prepare our game consistently no matter who's not in, especially this time of the year.   We're preparing for the best of the Pacers, and vice versa, I'm sure.

Q.   It's tough to come back from a concussion in just two, three days.   The average is like six days or more.   What makes you guys sort of confident that he's going to be back? 
DWYANE WADE:   That's not for us to think about.   We have to prepare for the Pacers, and he's a big part of the Indiana Pacers.   We can't concern ourselves with what they're doing, what they're not doing.   We've got to concern ourselves with this team is coming here to beat us for Game 3, and we've got to prepare ourselves to be ready for a battle.

Q.   Dwyane, have you ever had a concussion before? 
DWYANE WADE:   Maybe slightly.   Not nothing that took me out for too long.

Q.   Could you put yourself in Paul George's shoes, what that would be like to have a throbbing headache in such a serious game? 
DWYANE WADE:   Throbbing headaches?   I know all about those.   I know all about blurred vision, migraines and all that.   I know all about those.   The closest I got to feeling very woozy was probably in the Indiana series when Hasbro had hit me.   My eye got cut.   I was a little woozy after that. 
That was probably the closest probably during the game where I had to continue going, where I felt a little spacey.   But, no, you don't know what a guy is going through at all.   When you deal with stuff that has to do with health, it's serious.   It's not a game, in a sense. 
So obviously, you want nothing but the best for him in terms of health and for him to bounce back and be who he is, and we want the same.

Q.   Did it feel like a hard collision to you? 
DWYANE WADE:   Yeah, my knee got hurt by doing it at the same time, so he was‑‑ like I said, when I looked over there, he was down.   It was a bang‑bang play, in the game that we play.   So I grabbed my knee too.

Q.   Are you still sore, or did you come out of that okay? 
DWYANE WADE:   I'm okay.

Q.   How do you play through wooziness and blurred vision? 
DWYANE WADE:   Just a will to want to be out there.   As athletes, we've got to play through a lot that a lot of people don't know or see.   They may hear about it after.   They may never hear about it.   But it's just the nature of our job, of what we have to do, and no complaints here.

Q.   Dwyane, how do you take that healthy fear that you spoke about in Game 2, how do you carry that through the rest of this series? 
DWYANE WADE:   For us, we haven't played as well as we want to yet.   We have other levels that we have to reach.   I felt that, obviously, Game 1, they played phenomenal.   I felt Game 2, we played good.   Our defense was darn good, giving up 83 points, but I felt the overall game wasn't where we'd like it to be. 
We figured out a way to win the ball game on the road, when they had control of it coming down last three, four minutes.   So that was a good team finding a way to win on the road versus another good team, but I don't feel like we've played our best basketball.   So we have to get to that level where we're playing Miami Heat basketball.   You guys know how that looks when we're all on one court and we're all playing together. 
So we have a lot more improvement we could do in this series. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT