NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v PACERS
May 19, 2014
Dwyane Wade
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Dwyane, you guys have really changed a lot of your matchups.   LeBron opening against the four.   Shane against George.   Guys in different places than they've previously been.   How much of an adjustment process was the actual start of the game for you guys?   
DWYANE WADE:   It was a little adjustment, but no excuse why we came out turning the ball over.   We've been changing lineups all year.   We should be used to it.  
   
 Q.   Would it be a little more comfort for you to be at the four just because it would seemingly get people back to the spot where they're more comfortable?   
DWYANE WADE:   I don't know.   We're comfortable with Shane starting.   It has nothing to do with that.   It has nothing to do with who's starting at this point.   So not at all.  
   
 Q.   Spoelstra said it was the worst that you guys have played defensively.   When you look at the film, what do you take from it that you guys did wrong defensively?   
DWYANE WADE:   Well, I mean, they had six guys in double figures or something like that.   They got everything they wanted from the standpoint of three‑pointers, attacking to get free throws, paint points, fast break points, all those things.   So we gave up kind of everything in a sense.   
The one thing we're great at is pick‑and‑rolls, and we gave that up as well.   The way that they played, the way that we played‑‑ obviously, offensively we did some positive things.   We had a lot of paint points.   We didn't shoot well from the outside, but getting points in the paint is great, but defensively we didn't do what we needed to do.  
   
 Q.   What kinds of adjustments do you need to make going into Game 2?   
DWYANE WADE:   We'll make some adjustments defensively.   We always make adjustments when we do wrong.   So we're not saying exactly what our adjustments we'll be.   We'll make some adjustments.  
   
 Q.   You've been in this situation before.   Even Game 3 against Brooklyn you played a bad game and bounced back.   How much do you kind of lean on that?   
DWYANE WADE:   We lean on the history of playing together, but we also know that, just because of that doesn't mean that you're going to correct it.   You've got to come out and do something about it.   
So we have to play a lot better.   Defensive game, we have to‑‑ like I said, we've got to do a better job of‑‑ obviously, guys that make shots.   We've got to do a better job of making shots when we get the opportunity versus a tough defensive team.   So when you get your shots, you've got to take them, and we need to make them.   
We're going to win this series, winning it by defending, trying to keep them off the line, and not rebound the ball.  
   
 Q.   I know you said it doesn't matter who starts.   You guys went bigger to start the second half.   Did you find any boost or advantage from that lineup later?   
DWYANE WADE:   It all has its pros, and it all has its cons.   It doesn't matter who starts on our team.   That person brings something different to our team than the other person and vice versa.   
So whoever coach puts out there to start, we've got to be prepared for it, and we've got to play with whoever's out there.  
   
 Q.   It seemed like you guys were attacking.   Yet you look at the free throws, and there was a huge advantage to them.   When you go into a game, it seems like you need to get free throws.   How do you try to get to the line more?   
DWYANE WADE:   You can't try to get to the line.   You've just got to keep playing.   We attack guys.   Things change from game to game.   
First game, it wasn't there for us.   Hopefully, the next one.   If it's not, then we can't worry about that neither.   We've still got to find a way to win the game.  
   
 Q.   Dwyane, what's it been about this team that's allowed you guys to have so many, after losses on the road, come back and win through so many years?   
DWYANE WADE:   You know, just we've always believed in ‑‑ one of our mottos is owning it, and we've always believed as a group of owning the things that we did wrong and our mistakes, and then coming in trying to right our wrong and coming in with a different focus as well, understanding what we have to do.   
So when you're in the playoffs, we're a team that you don't want to get down 2‑0.   We haven't been down 2‑0.   So we always find a way, try to find a way, over the years, to not lose two games in a row.   We've played our tails off that next game to do that.   
So tomorrow is not about X's and O's as much as it's about, obviously, attention to detail and obviously having focus, but just playing our tails off.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT