NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 12, 2016
Dwyane Wade
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Do you have any expectations for the weekend?
DWYANE WADE: I expect it to get colder as the week goes on.  I expect it to be very exciting.  I think it's going to be very exciting.
Q. (Indiscernible) Kobe?
DWYANE WADE: To remember going against one of the game's greats.  I think for him in the end it will be, first of all, very gratifying and a little emotional, a little tiring because of everybody wanting a piece of him as well.  But I think it's great for our game to celebrate him at this time.  So it's cool.
Q. Do you have a favorite memory of Kobe?
DWYANE WADE: Favorite memory?  I have so many (indiscernible) share some of them, because he scored a lot of those on me.  But myself and so many guys wish him the best.  A lot of us are fans of Michael Jordan, but we didn't get to see him the way we've seen Kobe.  (Indiscernible) to learn things from him.  And now to be able to be here and be a part of this is special.
Q. (Indiscernible) in Orlando, do you think that's what's going to happen here?  He's going to call out people he's going to go one-on-one against?
DWYANE WADE: I think everybody's going to want to go one-on-one and have their Kobe Bryant moment.  So whenever he gets a guy one-on-one that the crowd is going to love, they're going to cheer and get up and yell.  He's going to have that moment.  And on the other end as well.  He's a competitor.  Still at 37, he's picking up 94 feet sometimes when you watch the Lakers play.
Q. He's two points ahead of LeBron [as the all-time scoring leader in the All-Star Game].  Do you think they're going to have a competition?  Probably LeBron's going to catch him in the next couple of years.  But going out as the highest-scoring All-Star player?
DWYANE WADE: Yeah, he's always going to have that moment between those two guys scoring.  You've got guys who can score the basketball and get in a lot of All-Star Games and they'd like to get a lot of accolades, like LeBron does and Kobe does, in the game.  And you eventually want to be in the top in scoring.  Some guys don't come here to shoot.  Some guys want to be a part of it and some guys are here to do what they do.  That's why those guys are here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT