NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 11, 2013
Dwyane Wade
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Miami Heat - 77
  San Antonio Spurs   - 113

Q.   Dwyane, you guys have a nice first half, but then at the third quarter everything disappears.   How much is it effort?   Because in your faces and Erik Spoelstra's face, it was kind of a frustration, you guys tried to do the things, but nothing hard. 
DWYANE WADE:   They came out in the third quarter and they kicked our butt pretty good.   Frustration started to set in, obviously.   You let that go on a little too long‑‑ the run, they should have been a little shorter.   They went on a little too long because of the frustration. 
So a lot of credit goes to them for coming out.   They got the two bombs before the end of the half when it was tied up.   They kept their momentum going in the third. 

Q.   Dwyane, for two teams to be so evenly matched up, why were these last two games played to such extremes in terms of getting away from one team or the other? 
DWYANE WADE:   I have no clue, but at the end of the day, as you say, both of them was only one win.   If you can get four wins in four games, the series would have been over tonight.   They would've got four for this one.   They beat us pretty good. 
But it doesn't matter from the standpoint of what was the final score.   They played very, very well for 48 minutes, and we only played well for pockets of the game.   You can't beat a team this good playing that way. 

Q.   When Spoelstra was in here he said three different times you guys got what you deserved.   What do you think he meant by that and do you agree? 
DWYANE WADE:   We got our butt whooped.   We got our butt kicked pretty good.   We didn't play good.   We got away from some of the things we do.   We got away from some trust.   You can't do that.   You can't break down, especially versus a team like this. 
We own it.   We own it.   This was a terrible performance by the Miami Heat.   Our worst one yet.   And we have to correct it. 

Q.   Danny Green suggested that LeBron is beating himself.   What are the Spurs doing to him defensively? 
DWYANE WADE:   I don't know.   Honestly, they are a good defensive team.   LeBron missed some shots that LeBron makes.   He makes shots from all over the floor. 
So I don't know.   We can go back and look at the film, but I'm not worried about him at all.   He'll make the adjustment.   He'll be his normal great self. 

Q.   LeBron just had two off games these last two games or is there anything else that might be affecting his game right now? 
DWYANE WADE:   No, I mean, besides the Spurs' defense and LeBron missing shots.   It's the same thing.   They're a good defensive team.   Obviously all eyes are on him.   But he's missing shots as well.   It's a combination of both. 

Q.   He's not sick or anything? 
DWYANE WADE:   He's not sick‑‑ I don't know.   I don't think so.   I think he's 100%.   He's fine.   He can't have an off game? 

Q.   Dwyane, this is the first time all season, in fact, in about three seasons that LeBron did not get to the free‑throw line one time.   What does that say about him and what's happening in the series tonight? 
DWYANE WADE:   A little bit of their defensive schemes, obviously, it's to go under a lot of the pick‑and‑rolls, to play off a lot.   And when they do that, the shot‑‑ you have the shot most of the time.   So it takes away some of your aggressiveness at times, because you have the shot that you can make in your sleep, and you're like, I'm going to shoot it, and then it don't go in.   But you have to keep shooting it. 
I think it takes away a little of your aggressiveness.   I think that's the reason they're doing that.   Obviously Popovich has scouted us.   He knows when we get in the paint on a consistent basis, we're a very tough team to beat. 
Just got to mix it up.   We have to try to mix it in.   He'll be able to figure it out. 

Q.   A lot has been said about LeBron making the game easier for you guys.   What are some of the things you guys can do to make the game easier for him? 
DWYANE WADE:   Well, I mean, I think we give him the ball in many different places.   The only way to make the game easier is to make shots.   When he's getting doubled or when he's struggling, his teammates to make shots.   And that's the best way to make the game easier.   Besides that, he has the ball, we trust him in his decision‑making and what he does. 
For us it's just to make shots.   When we make shots, it opens up the floor for everyone. 

Q.   Spo said that he needs to find ways to get LeBron in places where he's comfortable and confident.   Since when did LeBron ever need to be comfortable and confident on the basketball floor? 
DWYANE WADE:   Only when you miss shots and struggle the last two games.   We have to find ways to get him, especially early, in places.   Then he can get easier shots and it opens up his all‑around game. 
I'm not mad at the shots we got early in the game.   I'm not mad at a lot of shots we got.   We just have to step up and we have to make it as a unit.   We've been a good offensive team all season.   We're playing against one of the best defensive teams.   But we have to step up and make shots, like those guys did tonight.   They made shots and that's the difference in the ballgame. 

Q.   D‑Wade, you said going into Game 2, there was a must‑win.   Come Thursday is it a must‑win this time? 
DWYANE WADE:   Every game from this point on is a must‑win.   We have to win it. 
Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT