NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 7, 2013
Dwyane Wade
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Dwyane, you guys have had some incredible rolls this year, including the 27‑game winning streak.   Is the way it's gone the last few weeks simply a matter of the competition or have you guys gotten away from some of the stuff maybe you were doing during some of the really peak times of the season for you guys?   
DWYANE WADE:   Well, obviously it's the playoffs, it's not the regular season.   These are the best of the best teams.   It's more challenging.   No team in history‑‑ I don't know, but I don't think no one swept straight through.   Anyone ever swept straight through the playoffs?   No.   It's impossible.   So it's not going to happen.   
I think that we've had some games where we've played unbelievable basketball, and I think we've had games where we haven't.   We would love to be a little more consistent with it.   But you have to give credit to other teams of taking certain things away.   
But I think we've always done a good job of once they do that of coming back and making adjustments we need to, as the good teams do.   
   
 Q.   Dwyane, LeBron was just saying how you run so much of your offense through Chris Bosh.   But so much of the time now he's far away from the basket shooting long twos and threes.   Do you need him to get closer?   Do you need him to demand the ball in the paint and look for him down there now?   
DWYANE WADE:   We just want Chris to mix it up.   Chris is one of the best shooters, especially big‑man shooters in this game.   He hasn't found the fine line of mixing it up.   And that's not always easy, because of the dynamic of how many players we have on the court that's live at all times.   So he can't just sit in the post and demand the ball.   He might not get it every time.   
So Chris is trying to find his place and his position.   And some nights it's effortless, some nights it's easy, and some nights it's difficult.   That's the challenge that we have on this team.   But he'll figure it out.   
   
 Q.   Dwyane, Chris just talked about the time when you guys met last week and sort of helped one another out.   Really talked about stuff off the basketball court.   How important is it to sort of get your mind away from it in order to get your game back together?   
DWYANE WADE:   Well, we're brothers.   We spend more time together than anything.   So there's times where you need to hear something different.   There's times where you have to take your mind away from the game and just look at other things and see how blessed that you are.   
So you know, just going over Chris' house, hanging out.   He's playing video games and I was just watching at first.   Just chitchatting about whatever.   Sometimes that lets you know how important you are to another person, how important you are to the success of the team.   So just showing brotherhood.   
Chris, I think, from that point, I think he's been more aggressive, more assertive.   I'm sure Chris will find his way of being who Chris Bosh, what we've became accustomed to.   Right now it's just trying to do this offense that's a little different than last year and the year before that.   He's just trying to figure it out.   
We have many guys that have tried to figure it out from game to game.   But I don't want him to think that him being great is just him scoring the basketball.   Chris can do so many other things for us.   Obviously blocking shots, rebounding the ball, making other guys better by his screens, et cetera.   On this team your value is not always seen by your point total.   Because you're not going to get those opportunities that you normally will get somewhere else.   So I hope he has erased it out his mind.   
   
 Q.   Dwyane, Spo was talking about whatever it takes at this point.   I'm just wondering for you is there any enjoyment now?   Is it fun or is it just because of the knee, just a grind to get to the finish line, just get me there and give us four?   
DWYANE WADE:   Playoffs ain't fun, man.   I'm sorry to bust anyone on the outside's bubble.   As a player in the playoffs, you have no joy until it's over and you won.   If you don't win, you have no joy for a while.   So for us it's the grind every day as a team of trying to win the series, trying to win four games in the series.   
Me, the last couple of days I've been coming in, get my work in that I need to, and the last two games that I've stepped on the court I felt better physically.   So hopefully I can continue.   
   
 Q.   Do you know day in and day out before the game that you're feeling better?   Or really is it only once you get out on the court that you know?   
DWYANE WADE:   It's only once you get out on the court and you figure it out.   A couple of nights I got out before the game, I thought oh yeah, this is my night.   I got out there and it was oh no, it's not.   It's one of those things, like I said, it's from quarter to quarter.   
But that's nothing.   You're on the basketball court, you have to do whatever you have to do.   You have to make some kind of positive impact while you're on the basketball floor.   If you can't make a positive impact, then you need to sit down.   
So when I'm out there, some moments I'm scoring, some moments I'm rebounding, some moments I'm doing other things on the basketball floor to try to make a positive impact to give ourselves a chance to win the ballgame.   And that's all you can do.   
   
 Q.   Dwyane, you talked after the game last night about fatigue associated with maybe the seven‑game series against Indiana.   You got two days off.   Is that enough to eliminate some of that or is it a cumulative thing you're going to have to deal with going into Sunday's game?   
DWYANE WADE:   Well, by no means no stretch I don't want nobody to think that's a crutch, that we were tired.   So what?   We have to play.   I said we looked like a team that came out of a seven‑game series in the fourth quarter.   We died down a little bit physically and mentally by making mistakes.   
So you have to fight through all that.   It's The Finals.   There's no other series after this.   There's no tomorrow after this, from the standpoint of basketball.   
We'll figure it out.   We're a team that always makes the adjustment.   I'm not saying it's guaranteed we're going to make the adjustment that's going to win us the game.   But I feel we'll play better, especially when we're in those moments.   That's kind of what we pride ourselves on.   We'll be better in the fourth quarter in Game 2.   If we're not, then we're putting ourselves in a big hole.   So I believe we will.   
   
 Q.   Dwyane, do you take any comfort in the fact that the two times you won a championship you lost Game 1, but the one time you lost you won Game 1?   
DWYANE WADE:   No, man.   Not while you're in it.   When you're in it, you want to win.   You want to win every game.   That history‑repeats‑itself‑hopefully thing, that would be great.   But right now we have to figure out how to make the adjustments to win Game 2.   We're playing against a very, very good team.   Very intelligent, smart team.   And we have to break the code.   We have to crack the code.   And figure out how to be more effective, you know, in Game 2 than we were in Game 1.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT