NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 6, 2013
Dwyane Wade
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







San Antonio Spurs - 92
  Miami Heat - 88

Q.   Dwyane, you played with a real hop in your step tonight.   Was that two days off?   Was that, this is the NBA Finals sort of leave it all out there.   Why a more energized approach by yourself tonight?   And is that something you're hopeful of carrying through the series? 
DWYANE WADE:   Obviously, it would be something I would hope to carry through the series.   Game 1 Finals, you're trying to do what you can, try to come out with a lot of energy.   Both teams early was getting up and down.   Both teams was playing with a lot of energy.   Hopefully I can keep it up. 

Q.   Dwyane, I know you haven't seen tape yet obviously.   What's your guess on what went wrong offensively in the fourth?   As simple as missing shots or were there things they were taking away that were causing some problems for you guys? 
DWYANE WADE:   Yeah, haven't seen it yet.   Obviously we missed a lot of shots.   That's a very good defensive team all year.   So obviously had something to do with it. 
But I think we missed some opportunities that we could have capitalized on.   We'll go back and look at the film.   We'll see what we can be better at.   We as a team pride ourselves on, no matter what's going on, being better in the fourth quarter.   We had a few of those in this season where we let ourselves down where we didn't have it in the fourth.   It was one of those nights tonight. 
Offensively we couldn't get it going.   They made some big shots.   On the floor we played solid defense.   You can't make no mistakes versus them. 

Q.   Can you take us through the possession you were down four, that Chris took the three with about a minute to go.   It was a quick shot.   Was that the shot you wanted?   There was a lot of three‑point shooters on the court.   What were trying to get then? 
DWYANE WADE:   I don't know.   We run the offense.   I think we had the ball in LeBron's hand, the pick‑and‑roll.   Chris is one of our guys.   He felt he had the shot.   He took it.   If he hit it, it's a different story.   Obviously he missed it. 
We want guys to be aggressive at that time.   And Chris has made big threes for us and big shots.   So he had a wide‑open look.   It just didn't go down. 

Q.   Dwyane, you guys obviously knew that Tony Parker was going to be a headache, specifically in the fourth quarter.   How difficult is he to deal with?   Even when you trap him to force the ball out of his hands, they still have great passers to make plays even beyond that? 
DWYANE WADE:   Yeah, they're a very, very good team.   No matter who comes in.   They're unselfish.   Obviously Tony is the engine behind everything.   So we just got to do a better job. 
Obviously as the series goes on, we'll make adjustments.   We'll get to see where we can be better at defensively and offensively.   Give them credit.   They came in and didn't shoot the ball very, very well, but they stuck at it.   They stuck with it, and they got a hard win.   A tough win. 

Q.   Dwyane, two questions:   Five turnovers in the fourth quarter, and you guys didn't turn it over much at all in the first half.   What do you think changed in the fourth quarter when you guys always take pride in your execution? 
DWYANE WADE:   Yeah, that's something that we have to look at.   Obviously I thought thatwe were a little fatigued, honestly, in the fourth quarter, looking around.   We looked like a team that came off a seven‑game series.   I thought we got some shots we wanted.   But we were a little careless at times as well.   We turned it over. 
Like you said, we did a great job all game.   I think we only had three up to that point.   But having five in the fourth quarter isn't going to win you a game, especially not in The Finals.   We'll be better prepared next time and hopefully make better decision in the fourth quarter. 

Q.   It's not the first time you guys have lost the first game of the series.   But against this opponent, as good as they are, as veteran as they are, how much more of a hole does that put you in losing at home to them? 
DWYANE WADE:   It puts us in a hole where we're down one game.   You got two very good teams here.   It's the first one of four.   Did we make it tough on ourselves by losing the first one?   Yeah.   But our job now is to prepare to come out and try to win Sunday. 

Q.   Dwyane, there was a lot of conversation before the series about how you guys hadn't really seen each other a lot, full lineups in the last three years.   Do you feel you have a better sense of what they want to do against you and how to adjust to it? 
DWYANE WADE:   Yeah.   I mean, I didn't think there was any surprises tonight from the standpoint of us playing them over a few years and playing a little bit.   This team sticks to what they believe in.   Obviously they will make adjustments from game to game. 
Tonight there wasn't a lot of surprises either way.   You had a good game, and they just found a way to win, and we didn't. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT