NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PACERS v HEAT
May 31, 2013
Dwyane Wade
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Is there a part of you that would like to explode offensively one night‑‑  
    DWYANE WADE:   Every night.   
   
 Q.   Just for doing it?   
    DWYANE WADE:   Every night.   
   
 Q.   Could that be coming soon, or hard to say?   
    DWYANE WADE:   If I could tell the future, then I wouldn't be here.   The series would have been over.   
   
 Q.   LeBron actually mentioned last night for a while it was kind of like some of his Cleveland days where obviously he had to carry a bigger load.   Obviously he came here not to carry as big of it.   
    Based on circumstances right now, do you think this might be‑‑ whether it's clinching, whether it's moving on to The Finals, trying to repeat, is this going to be where LeBron maybe has to carry a little bit more from here on out?   
    DWYANE WADE:   You never know with our team.   Some moments it may look like it, and some moments it may not.   Depending on the nature of the game, depending on other guy's opportunities.   So you just never know.   
   
 Q.   You obviously went against LeBron when he was in Cleveland.   Talk about LeBron in the Cleveland days versus now.   What was it like going against him knowing he didn't have as much help as he does now with Miami.   Can you talk about that and contrast the two?   
    DWYANE WADE:   Well, I think they had a pretty good record versus us.   They had enough.   He's a phenomenal player.   He always has been.   And you always know that he's capable of, no matter who is on the court with him, he's capable of doing great things because of his ability not only to score the basketball in many ways, but his ability to make others better and get other guys easier looks.   
    He's always been a dynamic player from that standpoint.   He keeps you on your toes.   
   
 Q.   How much harder is it to win a closeout game on the road?   
    DWYANE WADE:   I think they're both hard.   Closeout on the road‑‑ obviously at home you're able to use your crowd to push you.   Over on the road you don't have that.   But the game itself in between the lines, I think it's just as hard.   
   
 Q.   What do you feel is going to be the key to closing it out?   
    DWYANE WADE:   Playing 48 minutes all the way through and through, and whatever the game throw at you, being able to withstand it.   And giving yourself a chance to win.   
    It's going to be a tough environment.   It's going to be a tough game.   Obviously we're a team that can win on the road.   But it won't be easy.   Just give ourselves a chance.   We can't have a lot of turnovers on the road.   We can't give up a lot of offensive rebounds on the road if we expect to win.   
   
 Q.   How tough is it to continue to push what you're pushing through and how can you be most effective right now?   
    DWYANE WADE:   Very tough, but I can't sit at home.   I have to come in and I have to do what I can every day and every night to help my team win.   
    The little things throughout the game.   Defensively at times, rebound, timely baskets, timely opportunities.   That's what I've been doing.   That's what I continue to do.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel like your best contribution is‑‑  
    DWYANE WADE:   Being on the floor.   
   
 Q.   Being on the floor, but then Paul George as well, making him work for everything he gets?   
    DWYANE WADE:   Yeah.   Just trying to make him work as much as possible.   He's a very good player.   You know, if we have (Indiscernible) the core defense set up to try to get him (Indiscernible) as much as possible.   Make it tough on him.   Wear him down a little bit, and try to make him take tough shots as much as possible.   
    Last night he got some threes going.   But during the fourth quarter and the second half we did a better job.   Myself and Ray did a good job.   Just trying to make it tough, make him turn his back and make him miss moments, et cetera.   
   
 Q.   When you're not 100%, do you talk to LeBron and say, hey, maybe you have to pick up a little more here?   Or is it just kind of understood?   
    DWYANE WADE:   It's understood.   My other thing is I can tell him I give you everything I got, and that's all I can do.   Me being on the floor, me being out there, obviously everyone looks atscoring ‑‑ and the other two.   I would love to score 20 or 30 a night.   Everyone looks every game just how many points I put up, and that determines my success.   That don't really determine my success on this team every night.   We understand that.   
    So I go out there some nights and I do‑‑ even when I was feeling great, I did what I need to do for my team to win a game.   That's the reason I'm here.   Tomorrow is a night if I'm feeling better and I can go for more points, I'll try to be aggressive.   But if it's a game I have to make plays for other guys to get shots and give up myself, that's what I do.   
    It's about winning at this time of year.   It's not about any individual.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT