NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 13, 2015
Dwyane Wade
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  Q. How do you feel about being in New York for the All-Star Game?DWYANE WADE: It's nice.  It's cool.  I feel like All-Star had to be in New York one of these years.  Since I've been in the league 12 years now, it hasn't been in New York.  I'm kind of mad that it hasn't.  I think it's cool that it's finally here.  It's a different vibe in New York than anywhere else.Q. NBA Expands this year is going to be the first time the NBA plays in Africa.  I know your teammate Chris has been to Ghana.DWYANE WADE: Yeah.Q. Did you get a chance to go to Africa?  What do you think of the expansion?DWYANE WADE: First of all, I think it's great.  The game continues to grow, continues to expand.  It's phenomenal for us.  Not only for this generation but for many generations to come.  Chris came back and shared his experience with me and my wife.  We thought it was just phenomenal.  Hopefully we'll get a chance.Q. Do you have a personal favorite All-Star moment?DWYANE WADE: Yeah:  2010 when I won the MVP.  That was pretty good.Q. Do you have a classic moment from growing up when you were watching it that resonates with you?DWYANE WADE: I mean, I think the one thing that I always think -- obviously I'm a big Jordan fan.  I think the one the year that Vince Carter was starting and he gave Jordan the nod to go play.  And I think Jordan hit the shot -- it was the fadeaway to tie the game.  That was just an iconic moment.  Just what Jordan does.  No matter what he does, no matter what, he's Michael Jordan. Just being a kid and watching the All-Star games and being boggled all your favorite players are on the court at the same time.  That didn't make sense to me as a kid.  I couldn't put it together.  How is this possible?Q. Do you have (Inaudible) ?DWYANE WADE: I have kids.  They have their favorite players.  My oldest son is 13.  I was going to let him stay home this year for All-Star.  He's like, "No, I'm coming.  I want to come."  I was like it is pretty cool.  It's still a big deal for our kids to see all their favorite players.  The NBA 2K in person.  That's exactly what it is.Q. And legends, too.DWYANE WADE: And legends.  They don't know much about legends.Q. Everything that's been going on, just everything, how important is it for the NBA to come together?DWYANE WADE: Well, I think the individual guys have done a great job of making a stand or getting behind whatever they believe in.  I think nowadays it's obviously very easy because of social media to let your voice be heard, really heard.  But NBA obviously supports us doing it.  No question about it.  So it's great.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT