NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 17, 2013
Dwyane Wade
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 East All Stars - 138
  West All Stars - 143 
   
 Q.   What did you make of Kobe and LeBron going after each other the last five minutes?  
DWYANE WADE:   Nothing.   
   
 Q.   As a fan, did you enjoy it, I'm not trying to pry you for anything else?  
DWYANE WADE:   Always enjoy as a fan to see guys compete, especially some of the best in the game.   
   
 Q.   You always seem to play well in these games.   Talk about starting off 10 of 12.   
DWYANE WADE:   I know I've got to make the best of my shots in these All‑Star games.   You just try to come out and enjoy yourself.   That's what I did tonight, got an opportunity to get a couple of highlights with some of the guys, and just had an opportunity to enjoy my life as an All‑Star.   
Second time in Houston, it was great.   We didn't get the win, but we all are winners, because all 24 of us are All‑Stars.   So it was great.  
   
 Q.   Also, have you ever dribbled the ball between someone's legs?   And were you giving Chris a hard time for that?  
DWYANE WADE:   Chris had a tough match‑up, he got switched on a couple of guys a few times.   But not at all.   That's the kind of stuff you do in the park, in the backyard, you do with your kids.  
   
 Q.   You play with LeBron every day.   Obviously you know how good Durant is but does Chris Paul get overlooked?  
DWYANE WADE:   No doubt.   No doubt.   As you see, he controlled the All‑Star Game.   He slowed it up and he kind of controlled it coming down the stretch.   But CP is obviously ‑‑ he's having an All‑Star year; look at the Clippers.   He missed a lot of time and they started to struggle a little bit.   But when he's on the floor with them, they're obviously one of the best teams in the NBA.   With guys like LeBron and KD, who fill up the stat sheets, he does get overlooked, but not to us as players.   We know he's a very ‑‑ he's the Most Valuable Player on the Clippers team.   They're one of the better teams in the NBA, so it puts him right up there.  
   
 Q.   Which of these first time All‑Stars impressed you most?  
DWYANE WADE:   I was, man, I was excited to see Jrue Holiday dunk it with the left hand coming down the middle, that was awesome.   I thought   Paul George did a great job, late in the game and hit some threes.   I got a chance to throw a lob to Tyson Chandler.   I've been wanting to do that for a long time.   
Just having fun with the guys in their first year was cool.   We had a good team.   This was a good vibe we had in the locker room and on the bench.   One of my better years with the guys and in general.   Just a real good team, glad I was a part of it.  
   
 Q.   There's different levels of competitiveness, and this game got a little competitive, and it looked like you were having fun.   Can you compare that to regular season, Olympic practice and All‑Star.   There's different levels?  
DWYANE WADE:   Yes, there's different levels.   The last eight minutes of the fourth quarter you see where the score is, you get competitive in that sense.   But totally different than other games.   This is a game where guys want to come out and have fun and enjoy themselves and showcase all of our unique talents.   
But you've got to read it and see.   If it's close, then you get out there, but if one team kind of runs away with, no one wants to get hurt.   That's the biggest thing.   Kobe said, "Leave my nose alone this year."   And I said "I got you, man."   We don't want anyone getting hurt in the All‑Star Game.   Everyone walked away from this hopefully.  
   
 Q.   Did Erik relax at all?   Did you see a different side than in Miami?  
DWYANE WADE:   Yeah, I think all of the coaches, I think they really enjoyed it.   We don't see them relax ever, so this was a good time to see him with so much family being out here.   And All‑Star coaches, they've earned it.   I was happy for all of them.   Even though we like to get away from each other on All‑Star Weekend.   It was kind of cool to have our coaches here to share the moment in All‑Star.   But he'll be right back to business on Tuesday at 2:00.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT