NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v HEAT
June 6, 2012
Dwyane Wade
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Things like the loose balls and all that, are you guys completely satisfied with the effort on that?   
DWYANE WADE:   Yeah.   Balls‑‑ loose balls, 50‑50.   We got one in the first half when Brandon Bass had it, it ripped out of his hands, hit my hand, hit somebody else's hand, came back and (Indiscernible) you know loose balls is 50‑50.   You try to put more of a concerted effort.   They got some of the bounces to go their way in that game last night.   
   
 Q.   How do you avoid getting wrapped up in that you guys are playing for the season, maybe for jobs, for this, for that, for breaking this up, for adding this‑‑  
DWYANE WADE:   Not listening to it.   I mean, we plan to win the ballgame.   We've got to win.   That's all we got to do.   Can't listen to the noise.   I'm not.   I'm sure our team is not.   We're just focused on winning this ballgame tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   You guys have lost 15 of the last 16 regular season and playoff games‑‑  
DWYANE WADE:   I mentioned that last night.   
   
 Q.   What is it?   
DWYANE WADE:   We lost 15 of 16.   
   
 Q.   You guys have had good teams.   Can you put a finger on it?   
DWYANE WADE:   If I could, it would be changed.   They beat us 15 out of 16 times.   That's not our worry right now.   We can't go back and change those games.   The only thing we can do is go forward and play this game.   
   
 Q.   How do you not think about that?   
DWYANE WADE:   Think about what?   
   
 Q.   That you've lost 15 out of 16?   
DWYANE WADE:   Why would you think about that?   What does it do for you?   Is it going to change anything?   No.   You got to go out there and play.   You got to go out and try to play‑‑ each game is its own.   You can't say oh, well, we're down one point and we've lost 15 out of 16 here.   We're not going to win.   
It doesn't work that way.   You try to go out, you try to play the game.   And hopefully at the end you come out with a winning result.   
   
 Q.   Dwyane, you guys have talked about this as being a championship‑or‑bust season.   Facing elimination at this point, does it bring a little bit more pressure to the situation than any other normal‑‑ you're playing under a lot of pressure anyway.   
DWYANE WADE:   We've played under a lot of pressure.   We've played under a lot of bright lights.   Right now what we said is what we said.   It's true.   Right now we're focused on the next game.   This is a seven‑game series.   We have to go in and try to win this game knowing this is a must‑win game.   That's the only focus we need to have.   All the rest of it we can't let too much keep in your mind right now.   
You have to find a way to get better.   You have to find a way to adjust your game plan and try to go in there and get the win.   That's the only thing you have to worry about.   
   
 Q.   How much does this matter to you?   
DWYANE WADE:   How much does what matter?   
   
 Q.   Winning this game, staying alive, being in The Finals?   
DWYANE WADE:   Staying alive.   This is what we love to do.   This is what our families love us to do.   It's what we work all year for.   We put a lot into it, obviously, as well as the other teams in the NBA.   This is our job.   So we're going to try to go out there and do our job and try to get a win.   
   
 Q.   All the noise that's out there today, I think one of the things I hear that might bother you the most is the Celtics have more heart.   The Celtics want it more.   
DWYANE WADE:   I haven't seen no one's heart being out there.   I got a pretty big heart.   Y'all can't see it.   It's behind these clothes.   
   
 Q.   When you hear stuff like that, it almost sounds laughable, I'm sure, but does it make you a little disgusted?   Does it make you angry to hear these pundits saying they're not really a team, they don't really have heart?   
DWYANE WADE:   No, that doesn't.   Because people go with‑‑ we win, they go with us.   We losing, they go with the other team.   That's the way the world works.   If you worry yourself with that, you're never going to get on top of it at all.   
So personally I don't focus on what people say negatively.   And not too much positively as well.   I learned that you can never get too high, you can never get too low.   That's life.   Obviously everyone has an opinion.  
I got to tell my kids this.   These are lessons I have to teach my boys.   Kids in school are going to say things about their dad because we lose.   But everybody has an opinion.   And I'm a public figure, and they get to use their opinion.   And that's fine.   
You walk away from it, you know.   You hold your head up, because you're a bigger person.   
   
 Q.   Is there anything you can do to silence or get these so‑called Heat bashers to change their opinion?   Or is it just going to be like that until time ends?   
DWYANE WADE:   Just win.   That's all you can do is win.   Winning cures all.   Until you don't win, everyone is going to have their I‑told‑you‑so mentality.   And if we win, everyone is still going to say "I told you so."   That's the way it is.   
   
 Q.   Dwyane, you had 30 points as a team in the fourth quarter last night.   Shooting percentage as a team, it's been about 40, 41 the last couple of games.   Is that more you guys missing shots you normally make, or them disrupting you guys defensively by switching defenses?   
DWYANE WADE:   They're a good defensive team.   We're not going to come in and just say we missed shots.   They're a good defensive team.   They do a lot of good things.   Obviously they switched up a lot of defensive coverages at different times.   
We're a good defensive team as well.   Besides the first quarter in Boston, both games where we gave up 60% shooting, it's been   grind‑out games.   It was a grind‑out yesterday as well for them offensively.   
Like I said, I thought it came down to they got the loose balls at the end of games.   They kind of hurt us.   Even when we had the lead.   Those things kind of take the air out of you a little bit.   But I thought with the defense the way it is, the playoffs, I thought we did as good a job as getting good shots.   That's all you can ask for, is to get good shots, and hopefully you make more than you miss.   
   
 Q.   Have you and LeBron ever gone into a game saying the way things are going, we have to get more shots ourselves tonight?   
DWYANE WADE:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   How does that work out?   
DWYANE WADE:   You know, we can go into the game tomorrow and say listen, we both need to shoot 30 shots.   Doesn't mean that's going to happen.   When you get out in the game, you see how the team is playing, your teammates are open, you get them.   
We're team players.   You don't win individually.   Sometimes you can will your team to a game or so.   You can't go in with that mentality.   You can go in and say I want to be aggressive and I'm going to take as many opportunities as possible, but you can't go in and say listen, you shoot, then I shoot.   That's not going to work.   
   
 Q.   A lot of the haters are focusing on Coach Spo today.   Do you think he put you in the best possible position to win last night?   
DWYANE WADE:   As I continue to say, everyone is going to take some kind of blame.   Coach is going to take some.   Us as players are going to take some.   We win together and we lose together.   His job is to get us prepared for the ballgame.   Our job is to go out there and try to win.   We all failed because we lost.   That's just the way we are right here.   When we win, we pat each other on the back and we take credit for that.   We lost, so it's all of us.   
   
 Q.   I know each game has been different, some games closer than others.   Has there been any consistency you can point to in the three straight losses where you say that's the thing that's really hurting us that we can fix?   
DWYANE WADE:   No, not in the three straight.   In the two up in Boston, I think what was the biggest thing we got down too much.   We let them get up too many points and then try to fight back.   
I thought yesterday it was a battle.   We had opportunities.   Especially late.   Especially in the second half.   We played a good second half.   They played well as well.   It was a tough break.   Tough loss.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT