NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v HEAT
June 1, 2012
LeBron James
Dwyane Wade
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.   Dwyane, you know what it's like when some of your bench guys come off, Miller, what kind of energy they give you.   I just wonder what you thought of Marquis.   He has barely plaid in this series, and what kind of lift you felt he gave their team. 
DWYANE WADE:   I thought Marquis and Keyon Dooling did a great job of coming in and making sure it wasn't a drop‑off from their energy standpoint of when the starters sat down.   That's all you can ask for, and they did a great job. 

Q.   LeBron, can you sort of talk about the trouble that KG gave you guys in the second quarter and how much that's probably one match‑up that's going to be difficult to adjust to? 
LeBRON JAMES:   I mean, KG is a difficult match‑up for a lot of guys, period.   He started off really well.   I think he had 12 points in the first quarter and got them off to a good start.   That's part of the reason why they had 58 points in the paint.   He opened up a lot for not only himself but for his teammates as well.   And he's definitely a threat down there, and he made some huge shots. 

Q.   Dwyane, this is the first time you went without a free throw in the playoffs. 
DWYANE WADE:   You said is or isn't? 

Q.   This is. 
DWYANE WADE:   Ever? 

Q.   Since your rookie season against the Hornets.   Question, was it something you weren't able to do?   Something they took away from you?   And is that a source of frustration, a guy like you who can get to the line to go an entire game without a single free throw? 
DWYANE WADE:   I don't know.   I played my game.   I attacked when I needed to.   I get off the ball when I needed to.   I guess it just wasn't for me‑‑ it wasn't easy for me to get to the line tonight. 
LeBRON JAMES:   I had a game this year when I didn't have an assist.   Do you remember that? 
DWYANE WADE:   No. 
LeBRON JAMES:   They do. 
DWYANE WADE:   Was that Hornets' game Game 3? 
LeBRON JAMES:   You don't know what game it was?   (Laughter)
             Q. For three quarters really there were long stretches where LeBron was the only guy who had it going, it seemed like.   Why was everyone else having trouble being consistent tonight? 
DWYANE WADE:   I can't speak for everyone else, but LeBron was very aggressive.   Like I said, our offensive rhythm wasn't necessarily there as much.   We didn't make as much shots as we wanted to.   But he kept us afloat.   That's the thing with our team.   Certain games LeBron is going to do it, certain games I'm going to do, other games Mario Chalmers is going to do it.   Keep us afloat and keep it enough to where we can make a push.   Give us an opportunity to come back, and that's what we did. 

Q.   For both of you guys, how do you think you've managed without Chris?   And any optimism he can be back soon? 
LeBRON JAMES:   I think we played great ball since he's been out, Game 1 of last round.   We've played some great ball.   Guys have stepped up in his absence.   Guys are going to have to continue to step up in his absence. 
We don't know when Chris will be back.   We're not going into next game hoping that he's going to be there, or whatever the case may be.   We have to prepare like he's not playing.   We will prepare for Game 4 like he's not playing. 

Q.   LeBron, what did the Celtics do to thwart your comeback in the fourth quarter? 
LeBRON JAMES:   It started way before that.   We can't dig that big of a hole on ourselves.   We were down 24 points.   When you start fighting uphill, we made a run, but any little mistake defensively or offensive rebound we give up or we miss a shot, we feel like we could have made it, or anything and they come down and get a bucket, it hurts, because you're trying to fight back the whole time. 
So we made a good run, but they was up too much and we got in too much in the hole. 

Q.   I know that attacking the basket is such a priority right now.   Points‑in‑the‑paint difference tonight, free throws, I think you two combined had 35 free‑throw attempts last game; five combined this game.   What wasn't working tonight and how do you fix it? 
LeBRON JAMES:   I think we still was in attack mode.   Just the free‑throw attempts just doesn't show for it.   I hit a few jumpers as well, but I got into the lane.   D‑Wade definitely got into the lane, got some attack points.   We had 46 points in the paint, which is a really good clip.   We only made five threes, so it does show we had to make some shots in the paint as well.   It just doesn't show for us. 
But we're attack guys.   We'll continue to attack and try to, you know, force the issue.   That's what we do, and that's why we're in this position now. 

Q.   (No microphone). 
LeBRON JAMES:   No, we're going to keep attacking.   That's what it's about.   We're attack players.   We don't shoot many jumpers.   We never got to this point by shooting a lot of jumpers.   But we're an attack team.   It starts with us.   And it trickles down to everybody else. 
THE MODERATOR:   All right, guys.   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT