NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 26, 2012
LeBron James
Dwyane Wade
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  West - 152
East - 149

Q.   LeBron, in the beginning of the season you told ESPN you wanted to play like less of a villain.   Do you feel like you've succeeded?   And Dwyane, do you notice a difference?
LeBRON JAMES:   We've got a lot of season to go.   I'm on the right path, back to playing basketball how I play, and that's back to having fun at a high level.   The best thing about this season so far we're playing some good basketball.   Our team feels that we are one right now, especially with last year under our belt, so we're just going to try to get better every day. 
DWYANE WADE:   LeBron is playing at an MVP level.   Obviously it takes a while to adjust, and I thought he did great last year, and I think he's adjusted now, and more comfortable now with the team and just in Miami, period.   It was very tough last year.   It was a different situation, but I think he's doing a great job, and he's playing like LeBron James that won back‑to‑back MVPs. 

Q.   LeBron, after the pass toward the end, it looked like Kobe was barking at you at the time.   Was he saying, shoot that?
LeBRON JAMES:   Yeah, he was telling me to shoot it.   I seen my teammate open for a split‑second, I told him I seen him open the first time and I didn't release the ball.   When I tried to throw it late, that's what usually happens and it results in a turnover.   Definitely wish I could have that one back.

Q.   What did you think of Kobe as an opponent kind of urging you to take that? 
LeBRON JAMES:   You know, you have some of the best competitors out on the floor at the same time.   Not only me and Kobe, but D Wade and Durant and Melo and CP‑3 and all the rest of the guys.   We all wanted to win, and it came down to the last minute or last seconds. 

Q.   Dwyane, you spent a lot of time guarding Kobe.   He went and got the All‑Star scoring record.   What did you think about his game tonight?   And just sort of talk about his legacy in the All‑Star Game. 
DWYANE WADE:   Well, I think LeBron said it best, it's a testament to him being healthy, staying healthy.   You know, obviously being in the All‑Star Game for 14‑plus years, I mean, he's an unbelievable scorer.   That record he got, with KD in the league, I don't know how long it's going to last.   But Kobe is a scorer.   Tonight he does what he normally does.   He got 27.   He's Kobe Bryant.   He scores the ball.   He's a tough cover.   But it's great being a little piece of history.   He's one of the best of all time.   We will one day say we had the honor of playing against one of the greatest players to ever play the game of basketball. 

Q.   Talk about that surge.   You hit six three‑pointers, you really brought the East back.   You made the game really competitive.   Talk about that surge.   Did you feed off of Kobe or Kevin Durant or you just did what you had to do? 
LeBRON JAMES:   You know, that was a small piece of it.   I tried to do my part, but everybody else had a hand in, too, as well.   D Will came off the bench and shot the ball well, and gave us 20 off the bench.   D Wade had a triple‑double and Melo played great, as well, in the second half.   I just tried to do my part. 
Being a competitor, no matter All‑Star Game or not, you don't want to get blown out.   Of course not when you're going against your peers and you're going against great players, and you're playing with great players.   I just wanted to try to pick it up and see if we could make a run at it, and we did. 

Q.   You went into defensive lockdown there.   You actually drew a little blood, I think, an All‑Star first on Kobe. 
DWYANE WADE:   Yeah, I obviously didn't try to draw no blood, but I took a foul.   Kobe fouled me two times in a row, so he's still got one up on me.   But I'm glad that everything was cool and we got back to being competitive and having fun. 

Q.   D Wade, you had a triple‑double.   Has the idea of sharing the MVP in the All‑Star Game come up with you guys? 
DWYANE WADE:   Never came up.   We didn't come here trying to get a co‑MVP.   Looking at my game and looking at LeBron's game, we was able to win.   It could have been one of those kind of moments, but maybe next time. 
Man, do you see the minutes I played? 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT