NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 24, 2012
Dwyane Wade
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What do you think it's going to be like to play in Portland next year?  
DWYANE WADE:   It's going to be nice.   It's been coming down the pipeline for a while now.   I remember being in the meetings when they were talking about Brooklyn, it seemed so far away, but it's almost here.   Obviously Brooklyn is one of those things that's a brand.   You see that B, you hear "Brooklyn", you immediately know where it's at worldwide.   So I think it's going to be good for the game.  
   
 Q.   Are you going to be excited to play there?  
DWYANE WADE:   Oh, yeah.   It'll be a new arena, new area.   We've got to gain some fans out of Brooklyn and bring them over to Miami.  
   
 Q.   What does it mean to the Heat to have six members of the organization here this year?  
DWYANE WADE:   It means a lot.   Obviously what our fans think of us, especially after everything we went through last year, but also give credit to individual guys for the things that they accomplished, like Mario Chalmers coming in and shooting the ball the way he has and getting that nod to come to All‑Star weekend and be a part of this three‑point contest, and Norris Cole coming in, no one really knowing about him, to be here All‑Star weekend, those are things that you're not going to really‑‑ you're not going to say, but I'm proud of him, and I know his family is proud of him for how hardest worked.   And obviously J.J. coming back to defend his title.   It was great that he could win last year and come back and do it again, and Chris and LeBron and myself just having the luxury of being in the light that we are in and being able to perform at the level that we can perform at every night and people looking at us as being the best players in the game is truly an honor and a bless being.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
DWYANE WADE:   It was big for us to get a win.   It's not the end of Linsanity.   He had a bad game, but he's going to have many more of those.   That's the nature of the beast.   That's the game that we all play.   We all have bad games and we all have good ones.   He will learn, and hopefully he'll come back as a better player.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT