NBA FINALS: MAVERICKS v HEAT
June 7, 2011
LeBron James
Dwyane Wade
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Miami Heat  83
  Dallas Mavericks 86 
   
  Q. Dwyane, first of all, talk about the rhythm you got in into tonight. And also talk about the free throw and what was going through your mind during both of them.   
 DWYANE WADE: The rhythm just, trying to make plays, maybe get to the basket, make some things happen. I can't shoot the free throw any better than I did. It went in and came out. The basketball gods didn't want it to go in. When you put yourself in a situation where you practice on that moment, you thought about that moment, you go out there and you shoot them like you normally do. That's what I did. It eventually came out.   
 It wasn't because I wasn't ready for the moment or haven't been in that moment. The basketball gods just had other plans.   
  
  Q. In that last play, what was called? And go through that.   
 DWYANE WADE: The last play when Mike wound up being there?   
  
  Q. Yes.   
 DWYANE WADE: We had many different options to look for. I was denied. I came back off another screen. I saw an opening. Mike threw the ball and I was trying to get to the opening, probably before I caught it. That's how I lost it. Just trying to get the ball back before it went over half court.   
 So obviously we would like better execution. But it was a great pass. I just fumbled it because -- I was kind of anxious because I saw an opening really fast, trying to get there before I caught the ball. Obviously I would love to have that play back. We would love to have a lot of plays back. It happened. It was unfortunate.   
  
  Q. LeBron, could you talk about your offensive night. And did you defer too much?   
 LeBRON JAMES: Definitely didn't play great offensively. I got to do a better job of being more assertive offensively, not staying out of rhythm offensively the whole game. But I think one thing I try to concentrate is, if I get two guys on me, try to make my teammates better, hit those guys for open looks. They made some great looks, but at the same time I have to keep myself in rhythm while I'm doing that as well.   
  
  Q. LeBron, in the last series when Dwyane said he felt his shot was out of rhythm, he came to the gym extra and shot. What are some of the things you're going to do over the next day and a half to be a better player in Game 5?   
 LeBRON JAMES: You know, with these games, every other day, there's not much gym time you can have. You want to try to stay off your feet as much as possible. If I feel like I need to come to the gym and get some extra shots up, I will. Absolutely just to get my shot back going and my confidence with my shot going. If I feel I need to do that after practice, tomorrow night I will do that.   
  
  Q. Where do you feel your confidence is with your shot right now?   
 LeBRON JAMES: I'm confident with my ability. It's about going out there and knocking them down. When you have the opportunity, you have to knock them down. Your teammates give you the confidence. They give me the confidence all year, all postseason. So I have to go out there and make them count.   
  
  Q. Dwyane, lately seems like you're taking it upon yourself to do everything. Rebounding, defending at the rim. Describe this added responsibility it seems like you're taking on.   
 DWYANE WADE: Just trying to make plays. My teammates and my team count on me to be more than one-dimensional. So obviously I'm in an offensive rhythm. It's just one side of the ball. On the other end of the floor my matchup is to chase Jason Terry around. I have to do that. If I'm off the ball I try to be more active. Just make plays. Sometimes it results in blocks or steals or rebounds.   
 It's The Finals. You just want to make sure every night you leave the court you feel like you left it all out there. It's not always going to be a positive result, but at the end of the day, if you feel like you left it all out there, you can be satisfied with the result.   
 Obviously we didn't win the game. We had an opportunity. But I felt that we played very hard. We did some of the things that we wanted to do. Too many turnovers in the fourth quarter as a team. Myself, I had two. But we gave ourself a chance. That's the only thing we came here to do.   
  
  Q. LeBron, you guys had a commanding lead in the fourth. You guys would have gone up 3-1. Mavericks had nothing going. Shooting a low percentage. Dirk was sick. How do you think you guys ended up losing this game? What happened?   
 LeBRON JAMES: I don't think anything is commanding in this series. These are two games teams trying to figure out a way to make plays down the stretch. We've seen in this series seven or eight-point lead is nothing. You just got to continue to execute offensively, continue to grind defensively. And put yourself in the best possible chance to win late.   
  
  Q. LeBron, what were they specifically showing you defensively that didn't let you get going offensively?   
 LeBRON JAMES: I think they haven't changed their coverages on me. Me just being more assertive, that's what it's about. I got the ball in the post a few times, and I seen double-teams. I tried to kick it out to guys and they've made shots for us. At the same time I can't let that stop my aggression when they bring two on the ball. I still got to make plays for my team, but also make plays for myself to keep me in the rhythm of the game.   
  
  Q. Obviously this is a game you guys feel like you let get away. Dirk going 6-for-19. Other guys stepping up for them. Do you feel like this could be a game where their supporting cast comes into the series? And how difficult is that going to be to combat in Game 5?   
 DWYANE WADE: Obviously, we had opportunity to win the ballgame. The one thing about this series, you see no team is ever safe. When it looks like one team may be in control of the game, the other team comes back. So that's why it's a 48-minute game. Obviously their supporting cast did a good job. They've been getting pounded by you guys for the last 48 hours. So there's a lot of pride. They came out and played well. They had a lot of different guys do a lot of good things.   
 We give them credit where credit is due. But we also learn from it and we will come back and try to get Game 5.   
  
  Q. LeBron, single digits probably the last thing you expected tonight. I think for the first time in your playoff career. What's the emotion right now? Is it anger? Is it frustration? Is it letting it go? Is it some combination? How can you sum up what's going through you right now?  
 LeBRON JAMES: I think the fact that it happened in a loss is the anger part about it. That's all that matters to me. If I had had eight points and we won the game, I could be satisfied. I don't really care about that. The fact I could have did more offensively to help our team, that's the anger part about it, and myself. I'll come back in Game 5 and do things that needs to be done to help our team win.   
  
  Q. LeBron, talk about that momentum-building inspiration to come back, because you didn't do that well tonight. How will it inspire you to come back even stronger with more of a vengeance?   
 LeBRON JAMES: We've always been a good bounce-back team. Anytime we have a loss or we feel like we could have did better in one game, we've always been able to bounce back. Individuals have been able to bounce back, including myself, D-Wade and CB and the guys. We understand it's a golden opportunity. Game 5 we come here and we play as well as we did tonight, we execute a little better down the stretch, we give ourselves a good chance to win Game 5 and go home and be able to close out.   
  
  Q. Talk about the competition between you and Jason Terry. He came out inspired.   
 LeBRON JAMES: Jason Terry is a great player. When he plays well, Dallas plays well. He's the reason why these guys are in The Finals and that's the reason why he's been one of the top guys and Sixth Man Award every year, because he plays well for this team.   
 It's a good show tonight by both teams. They made one or two more plays down the stretch than we did. We look forward to Game 5, and try to come out here with a win.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT