NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v BULLS
May 16, 2011
LeBron James
Dwyane Wade
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DWYANE WADE: The only thing we do, we watch the game films, we do what we can do.   
  
  Q. LeBron, same question to you.   
 LEBRON JAMES: Same thing. Treat every game like it's its own. That's why this is a series. You see the mistakes we made in Game 1, the things that we can control, and you come out with a better mindset and try to get Game 2.   
  
  Q. First half you guys were pretty good. Why was that not the case in the second half?   
 DWYANE WADE: I think we gave up a lot of second-chance points. Anytime with a team like that, you hold them and (Indiscernible) you give up, they come up with threes and lay-ups and dunks, it demoralizes you. So we know we have to do a better job of cleaning the glass.   
  
  Q. Why do you think you had (Indiscernible)?  
 LEBRON JAMES: We're not worried about it.   
  
  Q. Seems like energy and hustle was a factor. They seemed to get to every loose ball. How do you combat that from game to game?  
 DWYANE WADE: That's the way they play. I said it from the beginning of the series. They obviously have a good team. They do all the little things to become the best team in the league. So, you know, we have to match that.   
  
  Q. When you see that they are scoring (Indiscernible)?  
 DWYANE WADE: You know, you have to love the kids. You know, just make me smile, make me laugh. He loves the dad, but he loves the game. We appreciate -- he made me laugh. That's when you know -- you move on from stuff. You laugh about it. I dunk on him back.   
  
  Q. Did he give you any tips for Game 2?   
 DWYANE WADE: He always gives me tips. I'm fine. I'm good.   
  
  Q. How does it change the two days?   
 LEBRON JAMES: It's the series. That's it. We learn from our mistakes and come up with a better game plan.   
  
  Q. What surprised you most?   
 LEBRON JAMES: We can't give a team like that 31 second-chance points. We had so many turnovers. We can't allow a team like that --  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 DWYANE WADE: We have to get better second-chance effort. And rebounding. There's not just going to be one guy getting 13, 14 rebounds. We all have to chip in and box guys out.   
  
  Q. LeBron, what was the reaction to the fact that the margin of victory was (Indiscernible)?  
 LEBRON JAMES: Next question.   
  
  Q. The total number of points that they beat you with the three games in the regular season was eight.   
 LEBRON JAMES: We can lose by 100. This is the playoffs. This is only one game. It's just one game.   
  
  Q. Tell me about the days off. Is it better to have two games off? Does it matter?   
 LEBRON JAMES: You have to sit in and see how bad you played for a couple of days. Just resting our bodies a little bit. We can use a couple of days off, to make a couple of adjustments. They're up 1-0. It's our job to come back in Game 2.   
  
  Q. You guys have to set the tone. How do you do that?   
 LEBRON JAMES: We come out and play. (Indiscernible) that game got away from us. (Indiscernible).  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 LEBRON JAMES: We have to go out and do the small things. We can't get get outrebounded by them. We've been outrebounded four straight games.   
  
  Q. Does this feel like in the past against the Boston teams, because of the defensive schemes, does it seem similar?   
 DWYANE WADE: It is similar. You have to be patient. It's hard to attack on the front side of the defense because they load on the strong side. So you have to be able to get the ball from one side to another and attack their defense. They have a lot of athleticism. So you have to be patient.   
  
  Q. You didn't let that pressure you before. What's the key the nights you couldn't versus the nights you could?   
 DWYANE WADE: Just the preparation in between games, going over the film and seeing the things I could have done better. Come to the next game with more of a concerted effort to do the things I didn't do well the game before.   
  
  Q. This has been a very long season for both you and LeBron?   
 DWYANE WADE: It's been a difficult season. (Indiscernible).  
  
  Q. LeBron, the same question to you. Emotionally, mentally, has this been a long, draining season for you?   
 LEBRON JAMES: It's not been draining. I planned on playing long this season. I knew everything I was going to cover this season as far as on the court and off the court. It hasn't been bad at all.   
  
  Q. Oprah is taking over the building one extra day. You guys are playing on Wednesday. Is this doing you guys a favor getting the extra day?   
 LEBRON JAMES: She's very important. Not only to the world, but to this city. We'll take a back seat to Oprah. We don't have a problem with that.   
  
  Q. The best way to defend (Indiscernible) how would you go about guarding him?   
 LEBRON JAMES: I've guarded five positions. Whatever it takes to win. I have no problem with that.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about (Indiscernible) how do you react to that?   
 DWYANE WADE: That's the way you approach the series. We come out the next game and we win that next game by 23, it won't matter. That's the way you have to approach it. You have to stay in it mentally. When things go good, or they go bad, you stay the same way. You have to understand (Indiscernible).  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 LEBRON JAMES: Can change from possession to possession. (Indiscernible) we knew they would do the little things. Focus, rebounding. The second-chance shots.   
 We did a good job of holding them to about 40%. We gave them 31 second-chance points. They shot 43, almost 44%. We can take losing. That's a part of the game. But losing that way is not the way (Indiscernible).  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 LEBRON JAMES: You have the guy (Indiscernible) has the backup they have with Taj Gibson and Noah helping them out. We just go on.   
  
  Q. The two of you rebounding (Indiscernible)?  
 DWYANE WADE: We can. I guarded Ray Allen last season. Be more active. Blocking out.   
  
  Q. In the past have you noticed when you come off a tougher loss, not a close loss, but a big blowout, that you approach the beginning of the next game -- are you more motivated? Do you have a sour taste to use that as a positive?   
 DWYANE WADE: Of course you can use that as motivation, as a positive. (Indiscernible) we've responded all year. (Indiscernible).  
  
  Q. Offensively in the second half, what was different for the team you couldn't get --  
 LEBRON JAMES: We had a difficult time moving the ball. If you don't get the rebounds, it's going to be a long night. They did a good job of moving the ball, rebounding (Indiscernible).   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT