NBA FINALS: HEAT v MAVERICKS
June 20, 2006
Shaquille O'Neal
Pat Riley
David Stern
Dwyane Wade
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 COMMISSIONER DAVID STERN:  First I'd like to congratulate the Dallas Mavericks, their owner Mark Cuban, their coach Avery Johnson and this extraordinary team that had a spectacular run that gave us heart-stopping action all season long. 
 To the Miami Heat, may I` say, congratulations, you have been an extraordinary story and we on behalf of millions and tens of millions of basketball fans around the world say to you, congratulations, Miami Heat, 2006 NBA Champions. 
 (Presenting trophy to team.) 
 MICKY ARISON:  Just thought from the very beginning, we had a chance, and that if we had the opportunity, we could get it done.  Thanks to 15 strong -- these 15 guys, thanks to the hundreds of people in the front office who worked day in, day out and thanks to the thousands of them, and American Airlines Arena right now, our White Hot fans, thank you, thank you. 

 PAT RILEY:  It seems like about five years ago, the only thing I want to say it, I want to congratulate Dallas.  They had an incredible season.  They have an absolutely incredible young coach and a great future.  But it was our time, I really believe that it was our time, we have been talking about it all year, we've got 15 strong, that's what's in the pit and it looks like a championship trophy, all about 15 strong.  That's all I have to say.  A great group of guys.  Miami, we'll see you in a couple hours.  You enjoy.  Thank you, everybody. 

 PAT RILEY:  I'm a true believer, I have no doubts, I have no fears.  The only thing I think about is what it's going to take to win.  These guys showed up and they played all year long.  So we played together and I want to thank everybody.  But it's all about these men, and their wives and these families and everything we put into that big, gold pit that we have in the middle of that locker room.  Thank you very much. 

 COMMISSIONER DAVID STERN:  He averaged 34.7 points for the third highest scoring average for a player in his first NBA Finals.  He averaged 7.8 rebounds and 3.8 assists, he was very much the heart of an extraordinary team, and I do mean team.  Congratulations 2006 MVP, Dwyane Wade. 
 Congratulations.  What's going through your mind? 
 DWYANE WADE:  I mean, first of all, I just want to thank God for giving us the strength, the courage, the tenacity to fight through Dallas all year and come out on top.  I just want to give God all the praise for this. 

 DWYANE WADE:  Not at all.  I've seen all the defenses.  My coaches do a great job of getting me prepared, my teammates do a great job of spacing the court so I can do what I do.  This is a team award, just like it's a team championship. 

 DWYANE WADE:  Man, it's one of the best feelings, next to my wife and my son, it's one of the best feelings I've ever had in my life.  I'm going to live it up because we deserve it. 

 SHAQUILLE O'NEAL:  It feels good.  I came to Miami because of this young fella right here.  I thought he was a special player.  I knew the first time I saw him, I knew he was something special so I knew it was my job to come here and make him better. 

 SHAQUILLE O'NEAL:  When I came here, I decided to let him go and I was going to be second option and I was good with that.  You know, he's a great player, unselfish player, he's the best with the world, D-Wade. 

 SHAQUILLE O'NEAL:  Pat Riley is the best coach I've ever had, him, Darryl Brown and my father, they have been telling me to stay positive all year.  Coach Riley told us on June 8th that we were going to win on June 20th. 

 SHAQUILLE O'NEAL:  No, I'm going to give it to D-Wade, I'm going to give it to Mr. Arison right here. 


 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT