BIG TEN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 6, 2020
Sharon Versyp
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Maryland - 74, Purdue - 62   
SHARON VERSYP: Just really pleased with our team, just the effort and the game plan and executing it. Maryland does such a good job scoring in the paint, especially on transition offense, and obviously in half court, but their transition offense. They've been averaging 50 to 60 points in the paint, and today we held them to 32 points in the paint, which was really, really important for us to be successful, and we obviously had to shoot the ball better than we did last time.   
So I thought it was a really hard-fought battle, and obviously we wish Maryland the best of success.   
 Q.  Coach, Taylor Mikesell really found her stroke from three tonight. What are some of the challenges of having to defend a really tough shooter like that?  
SHARON VERSYP: Yeah, I mean, she really shot the ball well in the second half. We knew that she would. In our zone we were just trying to find her quite a bit, and when they did a lot of skip passes, we were trying to pack the paint. It worked very well. The second quarter they only shot 19 percent, so it was efficient. But you know, they're great basketball players, so they're going to make shots, but she's always difficult to defend. We did a good job for part of the game, but we did do it with the game plan that we wanted.   
 Q.  At the end of the third quarter there, I think Karissa had a three-point shot that would have taken it down to five, they go down on the other end and hit a three and all of a sudden it's 11. How hard is it against a team with the talent that Maryland has to put together any sort of extended run?  
SHARON VERSYP: I think we did that in the first half, but there's certain -- it's always the timing of shots, and pretty much the scenario of the game, and you have a great open look, and if that's drained, it changes the complexion, and then going down and nailing a three. I mean, obviously you don't want to get up and down nonstop with them. We wanted to control the tempo. I thought we did that well. You always want to be able to shoot that dagger when you can, but that's always going to change the momentum a little bit. But we got behind, and we still sustained and made a run, so that was what was really key.   
 Q.  Talk a little bit about what happened at the start of the fourth quarter after that three-point shot. All of a sudden you go from being in the game to down 20.  
SHARON VERSYP: Well, in the beginning of the fourth quarter, we took too many quick shots, and we weren't controlling the tempo. We didn't control the tempo during that time, and that's what happened, and called a time-out, and then we got it back within 12 and then get it back to nine, and it just kept fluctuating. They want you to do that, so if you're missing, that's when they take advantage, and obviously we were missing during that time, so we called a time-out, calmed down, and then we were able to make another run.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT