BIG TEN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S MEDIA DAY
October 16, 2014
Sharon Versyp
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We're joined by Purdue head coach Sharon Versyp. 
We'll start with an opening statement.
COACH VERSYP:   Yes, just very excited for the Big Ten to start.   Welcoming Maryland and Rutgers into our league again has just made our conference bring it to another level, and I think that's very exciting.   And I agree with what Vivian said of we've always said the Big Ten top to bottom has been the strongest league in the country.   And now adding those two is just going to hopefully continue to grow our conference and be able to march on during March Madness. 
As for our team, we're very excited.   Two years ago, no one thought that we could replace Sam Ostarello and Drey Mingo and their scoring and rebounding, and we were able to do that collectively. 
Now we have to make up for about 30 points and a lot of guard play.   So we're going to have to do it by committee.   But very excited about the challenge ahead with our young team as well as going into the season.
THE MODERATOR:   Questions.

Q.   You talked about the strength of the league from top to bottom.   Where the Big Ten has struggled has been in the NCAA Tournament.   And that probably is why they're not considered with the other leagues.   What does the Big Ten have to do to consistently have that team in the Elite Eight and a couple in the Sweet 16?
COACH VERSYP:   Just do what we're doing.   I mean, we've got new coaches in our league but you add Maryland and Rutgers.   Maryland was a Final Four team.   That's why they're number one in the Big Ten this year.   And it will all work itself out and we'll continue to beat each other up and we're going to get better that way.
But that's something that all of us have discussed, and we need to continue to do.   But I think we have a very young league.   Our players are very, very young and I think you're going to see a big boom the next two to four years.

Q.   Last year the league as a whole took a jump offensively, and your team did too.   Is there more room for growth not only with your team from an offensive standpoint but for the league to make another jump this year?
COACH VERSYP:   We discussed that last night when all of us coaches were together.   I think it continues with the style of play and the officials and the rules, the freedom of movement, allowing players to get to the basket and I guess the physicality of the game to back down a level.
I think that will just continue to grow.   And our league has, again what Coach Stringer said, has skilled and talented players.   I think there's always room for growth.
And I think hopefully you'll see another jump another four to five points.

Q.   When Rutgers and Maryland were announced, what were your feelings then about actually picking up two new teams with two powerhouse teams with big traditions?
COACH VERSYP:   I think it's fantastic.   We want to be the No. 1 conference in the country.   And we've been 2 and 3 here and there and we have to be successful as we make that jump but you knew there was going to be a lot of movement in the conferences.
So it's just another‑‑ it's exciting.   You get to go to the East Coast.   I know for them it's very difficult.   They've got to work with 12 new teams, and they're the ones who have to travel the furthest.   So it's difficult on their end.
But you want to be the best.   That's why we're in our professions.   That's why our student‑athletes come to our schools and again, we just need to forge forward and enjoy the moment.

Q.   Who is that natural leader?   For so long it was Courtney Moses, Kay Kay.   The complexion of your team has changed a little bit both from a leadership perspective on and off the court.   Who are the one or two leaders that does that for you?
COACH VERSYP:   It's a combination.   April Wilson is going to be our point guard and our leader.   She played with Kay Kay and Courtney for two solid years.   Last year she ran the point and had great experience playing with those two.
So she has to do that on and off the court.   Whitney Bays, our sixth player, she's that emotional leader on the floor.   She's that performer.   And Liza Clemons is really the one that's the glue to the team.   Off the court she's an amazing, amazing leader.   But on the court she's kind of the point forward for us, can really help April out quite a bit.   Has been in the system for a long time, and she's extremely effective scorer. 
Those three of our captains.   So I think those three are I guess the big three for us and they have to get our young kids‑‑ we have five freshmen.   So we've got to make sure they've done a great job with them.

Q.   You're going back to the 18‑game conference schedule which you guys pulled away from a few years ago, what are your feelings about that?
COACH VERSYP:   You know, I'll just reiterate what Bobbie said.   We don't have a choice in the matter.   I think 18 games is what we have to go with.   It's obviously difficult and it compresses our schedule quite a bit.   We don't have much freedom to do some things in the non‑conference.   So as we say it is what it is and we just have to forge forward and just reality. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT