BIG TEN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 7, 2014
Liza Clemons
Courtney Moses
Sharon Versyp
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









COACH VERSYP:   That was a great basketball game.   Saw a lot of offense obviously from the first play in this game.   Iowa is obviously a very good team.   Both of us pretty much had the same records.   Knew it was going to be a battle.   People say upsets and this and that.   It was just a great basketball game.   It could have went either way.   And I wish them the best of luck as they move forward. 

Q.   Courtney, just the turnovers today, is that sort of what the game came down to, you guys giving up a few too many possessions?
COURTNEY MOSES:   Yeah, that was the talk at halftime.   Coach, as soon as she came in, she put up the stat for the turnovers at halftime and we needed to change that the second half and it didn't happen.   We ended with 20 turnovers to their 11, which that's a huge difference.   A lot of them were charges, and we didn't adjust to the way that it was being called, and when we were getting those charges, it means we're not getting a shot up and they're getting the ball back.   So I think the turnovers are definitely a huge key. 

Q.   Saying all of that, you have I think a six‑point lead with about five minutes to go, what changed in that next few minutes that maybe brought them back in the game?
COURTNEY MOSES:   They got the ball in transition.   They got a few buckets.   They were getting layups.   They were getting to the foul line and they were hitting their foul shots. 

Q.   Courtney, you guys came out of time‑outs two times in the a row there late and had the turnovers.   Just how much does that in particular hurt?   Because I imagine you guys have something set up coming out of both of those that you feel like you might be able to score on? 
COURTNEY MOSES:   Any time we aren't getting a shot up and we're giving it right back to them, it definitely hurts.   If we're not getting a shot up that means we're not able to get an offensive board maybe.   So there's a lot that you lose when you turn the ball over.

Q.   Lisa, what advantage did you guys feel like you had inside and being able to you know, do you feel like you exploited that enough today?
LIZA CLEMONS:   Apparently not good enough.   We did finish.   We got Doolittle in foul trouble, which was huge.   We just needed to capitalize when we had post players on us.   Get inside offense rebounds as well.   And since they front, it's easier to get an offensive rebound.   I mean, we tried.   We should have tried harder. 

Q.   I guess the same question I guess, just the two time‑outs and the turnovers coming out of those two, what did you hope for and what happened on those?
COACH VERSYP:   We were setting up wide open, our post players were wide open and the ball just didn't get there, whatsoever. 

Q.   With the ‑‑ what's different about this game maybe than the last, you know, six when you had really taken care of the ball really well?
COACH VERSYP:   You just got to look at people that had the turnovers. 

Q.   What was Iowa doing to not allow you to get any stops late in the game?
COACH VERSYP:   We weren't playing any defense.   So they were just driving right past us and then we were just trying to get be swat machine rather having two hands straight up.   So those two combined getting beat off the dribble and then thinking that we can be a fly swatter wasn't really conducive to what we discussed. 

Q.   As you look ahead to the NCAA Tournament, do you feel this game should have any bearing where you guys should be?
COACH VERSYP:   That's going to be up to the committee.   My opinion never matters in anything.   So you know, our RPI is 7.   Supposed to look at the whole season, injuries, et cetera.   Iowa is a great team.   They're ranked in the top 25.   Their RPI is 28.   Do I need to go on?   I don't know.   It's not up to me.   I hope we're a four or five seed.   I hope they're a four or five seed.   I hope Penn State, they were a three seed; this may hurt them.   I hope they're a four or five seed so the three of us have a chance to do something.

Q.   KK Houser was suited up today.   What was her status?   Could she have played?
COACH VERSYP:   No.   Just going through the warmup.   For the game situation, where I needed to have her come in maybe to shoot a free throw if they were pressing us, if we needed a free‑throw shooter rather than defender, I would have put her.   Or if it was the other way around, if we had a good lead, I would have put her in just because she deserves that opportunity.

Q.   At the end of the first half they're in foul trouble and only having that four‑point lead as opposed to what it was at nine, when you reflect back, how big was that sequence for you guys?
COACH VERSYP:   It was big.   We're ahead by nine.   We're not supposed to hop off any ball‑side shooters.   We had turnovers and we had charges and four plays that we were supposed to execute, we didn't execute one.   That's when we wanted to take advantage of their lack of size.   We were trying to get it inside, trying to get lobs in, and we didn't do that one time in the last four minutes.

Q.   You basically started to answer it there, but you just didn't take advantage enough of getting the ball inside for not only then but for a lot of the game?
COACH VERSYP:   Yeah.   We needed somebody to take control out there.   Nobody was.   If you push the ball you don't have anything, you need to bring the ball back and then you need to be executing and be zeroed in on what we're looking for in the mismatches, and we did that very poorly today.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT