BIG TEN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S MEDIA DAYS
October 25, 2012
Sharon Versyp
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  SHARON VERSYP:   Well, we're just excited for the season to get going.   We have quite a few returners, but we have a very good recruiting class that came in as freshmen that need to do some good things for us if we want to continue to be successful and have a good ride into the Big Ten and play well at the end of the year. 

Q.   Are there one or two freshmen that you look at that you think are capable of stepping in and having a significant impact right away? 
SHARON VERSYP:   I'm hoping at least three of them will come in and do some significant things.   I think Taylor Manuel, post player down low, I feel that she will come in and do some things.   Doesn't matter how long she plays, but she's very productive.   I think a backup point guard, April Wilson, who's a freshman, will come in.   She's really grasping things right now and really understanding our offenses and she's really poised.   She always defers to others so she's that ultimate point guard that she's going to make sure that everybody else gets involved, and she's last, in her mind, to score the ball. 
And then maybe Hayden Hamby, who scored a lot of points in high school, hopefully she can come in and shoot the three ball very well.   She's just a very physical 5'8", 5'9" guard. 

Q.   You've got Drey Mingo back for a sixth year, which is a good deal, but how much does it mean to your program to get her back for the sixth year after what she's gone through the two previous seasons, and how is she right now?
SHARON VERSYP:   Well, it's fantastic news.   I think some people have forgotten that she's on our team, which I appreciate that you recognized.   But with Drey, the biggest thing is she's such an amazing human being, she just won a giant step award, courage award.   I was with her last week in Orlando, and just to be around her as a human being, you just want her to have a great year.   It doesn't matter what her team does, it doesn't matter what her skill set can be, she's been in school for about six years now and has only played like a year, year and a half, so it would be nice if she could just be a young woman that has had a great college experience this last year at Purdue. 
She's doing fantastic.   She still has hearing loss in her left ear, so that will never come back.   But for her playing and her ACL and all of that, she's very strong and pretty much has picked up where she left off and is very healthy. 

Q.   You look at the names on the preseason list, if Drey gets to the point where you think she can get to this year, is she a Player of the Year type of player?   Is she a top five type of player?   Could she have that kind of a year?
SHARON VERSYP:   I totally believe so.   Again, if she stays healthy ‑‑ you know, at the end of the year after she had her illness and she was only 65, 70 percent then, people ‑‑ more or less fans and audiences got to see what she was about, being able to score down low very effectively against any size whatsoever.   She has a great three‑point shot.   Her rebounding ability and defense has improved.   So I feel if she's healthy, she should be one of the top players in the Big Ten. 

Q.   Can you talk about replacing the production that Brittany Rayburn brought last year now that she's graduated? 
SHARON VERSYP:   Uh‑huh.   With Brittany you can never replace any player that you lose.   I think the biggest thing obviously because she scored and she was that go‑to player, but it's her just understanding our system, her understanding what I wanted.   She played as a freshman, so she just really had the mindset of what we needed and when we needed it.   So I think that's what we're going to have to overcome more so than anything. 
I think collectively hopefully her‑‑ the scoring we can try to replace with two or three different people.   I think that will be big.   But I'm really relying on KK Houser to really understand, her and Courtney Moses, of having the mentality that Brittany had of understanding what we need in game situations and just understanding my mind. 

Q.   We've talked a lot about the improvements you've tried to make offensively in the off season, but where is your team at defensively right now, and how far do they need to go to get to the level that you want?
SHARON VERSYP:   Defensively?   Well, defense, we always play defense here at Purdue, so I've just tried to work on our offense a little bit.   I think our defense is going to be very strong because we're the most athletic we've ever been at Purdue since our staff has arrived.   I think we're very quick.   We've got a lot of length.   We've got great size down low, 6'5", and then Taylor brings a different type of physicality with just her body type. 
So we can do some run‑and‑jump; we can do a lot of different things.   We just have more depth, so hopefully we can play that 9, 10 rotation defensively.   And then obviously working on offense we put a lot of shots up this summer and hopefully we can put some more points on the board. 

Q.   The dynamics that you use between KK Houser and Courtney Moses last year, will you use them in a similar way or tweak that at all?
SHARON VERSYP:   No, we'll still use them in a similar way.   There could be a time where I put April Wilson, KK and Courtney Moses on the court at the same time, really three fast, very quick guards that all can score the ball very well. 
But Courtney, we have four players that can play the point guard, which is great, so we have a lot of ball handlers, including Dee Dee Williams, in that group.   But Courtney needs to score the ball.   She's our three‑point shooter.   She has to take up the slack for Brittany's loss, and she just has an amazing mentality. 
With those two on the floor, we're energized; the excitement is there, and they both understand, obviously, what we want on the court defensively and offensively. 

Q.   I'm sorry to switch gears for a second, but you've got three new coaches in the conference.   Can you talk about the impact that's going to be on the season and future recruiting?
SHARON VERSYP:   I think any time the Big Ten has kind of gone through that over the last probably five years, I think when you have a different group, a different philosophy, coming in from different areas of the country, they've been proven winners.   So I think it's great for our conference.   It'll strengthen our conference, and obviously the recruiting bases are very different.   The three new ones are going to be great, like the ones that came in last year and the year before.
Hopefully now we can keep our coaches solid now for 5 to 10 years in their careers, and that's when I really think the Big Ten is going to kick off. 

Q.   Specifically with the new coaches, can you talk about Curt Miller?   He said he wants to close the borders in the state of Indiana.   How do you see him building that program and maybe competing with you to get some of those kids down the road in Indiana and trying to renew what hasn't been much of a rivalry recently, has been more one‑sided in your favor?
SHARON VERSYP:   You know, it's a tough question because I'm not Curt.   I'm worried about closing my own borders in Indiana and recruiting nationally and being the best that I possibly can be for our program. 
But I think in any institution you just have to know what your brand is.   You have to know what your system is and the type of student athletes you can recruit at each school.   That's where all of us kind of lose sight.   We try to maybe go and do something different, but we are who we are.   I think Curt, I have a lot of respect for him; I think he's a great guy, a great coach, and he will turn it around there. 

Q.   You guys made a great run last year in the Big Ten Tournament.   How have you built off of that in the off season and then in this preseason?
SHARON VERSYP:   Well, the biggest thing for us is when South Carolina beat us at home, they were quicker, more athletic, stronger, tougher.   And so that's the game that we keep going back to.   When you see our student athletes now, their bodies are totally different.   They really put in a lot of work in the sports performance area.   You'll be amazed probably at all of them, but KK has really‑‑ her body type is very different now. 
But we have to be stronger, we have to be more athletic.   We want to be the best in the Big Ten, but we want to be one of the best in the country, just like everybody else that comes up here and talks.   We need to‑‑ our Big Ten has to continue to prove and win in the NCAA Tournament.   We've had a game that we really look back on a lot. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT