SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 6, 2013
Di Wu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







F. MAYER/D. Wu
  6‑3, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Chinese, please.

Q.   Can you talk about today's match.
DI WU:   I came from Beijing, then because of the weather, I think I'm not in a very good condition.   We play with each other in the past.   He knew me. 
I've also seen many of his matches.   I also know him.   But I don't think I performed as well as I expected today. 

Q.   What is the area that you think he gave you the most pressure?   I also want to know whether you were tired in the second part of the match? 
DI WU:   First the first point to the last point, it's the same:   a lot of rallies, then he had the winning shot.   I think I'll have to work harder.   He is very clever.   His ranking is always around 50. 
He has also played some wonderful matches.   Indeed, I think I feel a little bit hard to play with him today. 

Q.   Five days ago in Beijing, the China Open, you played a match with Isner.   You said that demonstrated the real skills of the two players.   What about today? 
DI WU:   I think, yes, Isner is a very different player.   He had huge serves.   Florian is a very flexible player.   He is very clever.   He has strategies. 
So I think today's match is much more difficult than the other match. 

Q.   Over the past few years you participated in the ATP Shanghai Rolex Masters with a wild card.   I think you have changed a lot.   This is the first time you played in the center court.   Any different feelings?
DI WU:   Well, the result might be the same, but the process is different. 
Today I had a brand‑new experience in the center court.   This is the first time I had an official match there.   I was a little bit nervous.   I was not very steady.   I was not psychologically prepared for today's match.   I didn't think a lot about today's match. 
Talking about the changes over the past several years, my ranking has been going up, but there have also been setbacks and difficult times.   I think I'm still on the rise and I think I can do better in the future.

Q.   Djokovic said it's going to be five years until Asia can produce a top‑ranked player.   Do you agree with that? 
DI WU:   Are you talking about Chinese or Asian players?   I think we have a lot of very good Asian players, like Nishikori.   Many of the top 100 players are Asian players.   They're very competitive. 
I'm sure in the next few years many younger players will definitely give us breakthroughs so we will have better rankings. 

Q.   If you are a player with a bigger serve, you may have advantages.   What do you think of that?
DI WU:   Different players have different advantages.   For Asian players, they're usually short, so maybe they don't have huge serves, but they need to have a very clear mind.   I think we need to sharpen our skills. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT