AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 15, 2013
Di Wu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 I. DODIG/D. Wu
  7‑5, 4‑6, 6‑3, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How did it feel to make history as the first male player in main draw?   Did you feel any extra pressure because of this?   
DI WU:   I been asked the question so many times.   I'm not nervous, but I think after so many times I'm pretty nervous now.   
   
 Q.   Did you enjoy the support out there on the court?  
DI WU:   Of course.   Very enjoy.   First time I play here in the main draw, and then I just focus every shot, every point, and then I just very enjoying here.   
   
 Q.   Were you happy with the way you played today?   
DI WU:   Really happy, but lost.   (Laughter.)  
   
 Q.   Will you take confidence from winning a set against someone ranked more than 100 places above you?   
DI WU:   Even I lost, I can see the hopes ahead of me, so I will keep trying to do better next time.   
   
 Q.   Did Li Na provide any advice before the match today?   
DI WU:   Not technically, but mentally.   Last night before I go to bed I get a text message from her.   She told me, Don't be nervous.   Don't think about tennis.   Just go to bed.  
Your answer will be tomorrow, not tonight.   So don't think about anything else.  
   
 Q.   Have you set your target on qualifying for Roland Garros next?   Is that on the agenda?   
DI WU:   Of course I want to participate two Grand Slams in a row, but red clay is not my strongest surface.   So I will practice more on the surface.  
Unfortunately, coming up Davis Cup will play on clay, so I got a chance to practice.   
   
 Q.   What has your new coach been helping you with specifically, and how important has he been to your game?   
DI WU:   You mean this match or in general?   
   
 Q.   No, in general.   
DI WU:   We have been working together for almost one year.   We communicate very well, not only on the court, but off the court.   He has taught me a lot.   Even sometimes we have some conflict, we solve the problems very quickly and not lead to tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Your coach is French, right?  
DI WU:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   To follow this question, could you talk a little bit about him and about your relationship with him?   Are you very close with your coach?   
DI WU:   We actually very close.   He not only arranges schedule for me, but also playing every match for me.   We been like friends on tour.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT