SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 9, 2012
Di Wu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. NISHIKORI/D. Wu
  6‑2, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Before today's match we know that you will have to play with Kei, who is a very good player.   How did you get yourself prepared?
DI WU:   I've been following him.   I came to Shanghai awhile ago to get myself prepared.   Kei played very well in the previous tournament, and he also has a very good ranking. 
I think I can see the gaps between myself and him in today's match.   I am sure we will have a second player in Asia who can play as good as Kei. 
At the very beginning of the match I was a little bit nervous and then I got used to his rhythm in the second set.   I got some opportunities in the second set, but in today's match I can see the gaps between myself and the top players in the world, I mean, a player like him with a ranking of about 20. 
I will reflect on the match and hope that I can play better. 

Q.   Last year in the press conference we asked what his impressions was of the Chinese players.   The only player he mentioned is you.   He watched your practice.   What do you think of it?
DI WU:   Well, for me, I played a lot of challengers.   He played more higher‑end tournaments, so there is a gap between ourselves.   I hope that next year I can be a qualified player in the Grand Slams and gradually I can be closer to his level. 

Q.   You talked about playing the Grand Slams.   I think this is already a very good performance for a Chinese player.   How do you think you can participate in these high‑end tournaments?
DI WU:   Starting from this year, Zhang Ze and I began to know more about the ATP tournaments.   I have a new coach.   Hopefully we can discuss our schedule for next year and our future plans. 

Q.   What kind of plans?
DI WU:   This year I played a lot more futures and I hope that next year I can play more high‑end matches, and hopefully through these matches I can improve my skills and my ranking. 

Q.   You mentioned your new coach.   Can you talk more about your new coach.   What kind of help is he giving you? 
DI WU:   He has given me a lot of help.   At the beginning of the year my ranking was 500.   But with his help I have been improving.   He is a friend of the coach of Zhang Ze.   So through Zhang Ze and his coach, he has been invited to be my coach.   His name is David. 

Q.   Li said he wants to fly solo when his ranking is 100.   What about you? 
DI WU:   Well, we have to go through certain procedures to make sure that we can play certain matches in tournaments.   It would be good if we could fly solo. 
To that end we have to have the capital and other factors.   For me I think the time is not ripe yet. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT