SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 13, 2010
Di Wu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Y. LU/D. Wu
  6-1, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. We didn't see the match, so could you talk about the match for us a little bit? Also before the match, when you knew who your opponent was, what did you do in your preparation and what did you learn from the match?   
 DI WU: (Through translation.) Well, I didn't do a lot of training because I was having a fever. It was a small cold.   
 For Mr. Lu, my opponent, he's very stable. In the beginning, I wasn't accustomed to him. He's very stable, with very few errors. I am also that type of a player.   
 At the very beginning, I was not that confident, but then I adjusted myself. The tactics in the second set, I was getting more aggressive, and in terms of the serve I also tried to have some changes.   
 I am not fully prepared for winning the game. Therefore, I didn't expect that I would win the second set. I'm not satisfied with the game. But if you look at the whole week, I got the fever, and I trained with my coach. It was not very normal training.   
  
  Q. Last week in Beijing in the China Open, there was the coaches summit. Li Na's coach spoke highly of you, said your game is like Novak's. Anything that you want to develop in your game?   
 DI WU: (Through translation.) Yes, I followed Novak. He is very aggressive. He also has a very solid foundation. He is also very confident. So I want to learn a lot from Novak, also having high expectations and aspirations of winning the game.   
  
  Q. For the male players in China, your ranking is not as good as the female rankings. Do you have any difficulties in trying to improve your rankings?   
 DI WU: (Through translation.) If you look at the past year, we male players are improving, are making great progress. You can see that our rankings are improving a lot. Bai Yan is also playing a pretty good game this year. So I am sure that we will continue to make progress and our rankings will continue to rise.   
  
  Q. If there is one star player out of the Chinese team, it will motivate the other players. Is there any possibility that we are going to see a star from your generation?   
 DI WU: (Through translation.) Yes, I think it's highly likely. Most of us are born in the late 1980s or early 1990s. We are still very young, so I think we have a big chance of creating a star player in China.   
  
  Q. Your next big match is the Asian Games. Any expectations for the Asian Games? What is the overall level of the Chinese team? Who are your major opponents?   
 DI WU: (Through translation.) Well Kazakhstan, Japan and Taiwan team are pretty strong. For us, we want to be fighting very hard. We are still waiting for the arrangement as to whether we will play the singles or doubles.   
 But we will try our best and work very hard.   
  
  Q. I remember when we interviewed Li Na in the China Open, she said that Chinese young players have a unique psychology when they play with the top players in the world. To play several good games will make them very satisfied if not complacent so they cannot complete the whole game winning. Do you also have the same psychology?   
 DI WU: (Through translation.) Yeah, well, if the opponent is much, much higher in ranking than me, then I am still very young. When I am winning a game or a set, then I think sometimes I will not have proficient preparations to win the game.   
  
  Q. Does it mean you don't know how to win?   
 DI WU: (Through translation.) Well, some of them are in the rankings of 50, others 100. But they are much, much higher than us in rankings. We are not fully psychologically prepared to win the games.   
  
  Q. Today you played with a Chinese player. He also made some big achievements. Any differences or gaps between the two of you?   
 DI WU: (Through translation.) He has strong adaptability. He is also very strong in the serve. I don't think I am inferior to him in terms of challenging him, but maybe he has better tactics in attacking. He may have more ideas than I have in making attacks.   
  
  Q. A follow-up question. Compared to Lu, maybe you are not as experienced as he is and your tactics are not as good. But technically do you think you are pretty similar? Do you think you can be as good as him when you have more experience?   
 DI WU: (Through translation.) I think I'm still in the beginning stage. I don't have a lot of chances to get myself exposed to such big, high-level tournaments. Each and every player in China will have the chance to get the ranking of 100 or around 200, but we don't have a lot of exposure to compete with higher-ranked players.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT