NCAA WOMEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: LOUISVILLE
March 18, 2016
Brianna Mullins
Sandra Rushing
Jameka Watkins
Kendara Watts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Louisville - 87, Central Arkansas - 60
THE MODERATOR: Coach, an opening statement?
COACH RUSHING: Well, I just want to say this has been an amazing experience for our program.  Really, really proud of these young ladies.  They fought extremely hard all year long.  I'm proud of them this afternoon.
I thought that we were outsized.  Louisville had a lot of speed.
The first time on a big stage, but we sure would like to get back here.  Looking at my seniors, they laid the foundation.  This team has just supported each other, supported the coaching staff.  Again, just really, really proud of them.
Q. This was a very, very close game until near the end of the second quarter where they went on a 17-2 run.  Any of you all, what happened there?
KENDARA WATTS: I feel like we didn't rebound very well.  We weren't going in and rebounding like we were in the first quarter.
JAMEKA WATKINS: To kind of go along with that, we just didn't execute on offense like we did when we first came out.
Q. Hines-Allen I think had eight points in that 17-0 run, and I think she had 25 for the day.  Just talk about defending her and what she did to prevent you all from winning?
STUDENT-ATHLETE: I feel like we laid down for her a little too much.  She had two nice shots from the elbow and we needed to get her up off the board and I don't feel like we did that.
Q. This is for all of the athletes.  It's kind of an obvious question, but what was it like competing in your first NCAA Tournament on the Division 1 stage?
JAMEKA WATKINS: It was a great experience.  I mean, obviously it didn't go the way we planned, but we just wanted to play hard and obviously give it everything we had.
BRIANNA MULLINS: Like she said, it was a good experience.  It was our first time, but I promise you'll see us again.  I mean, we're going to get back to work and work hard to get back to this point.
KENDARA WATTS: They pretty much said everything, but I'm glad we laid the foundation for the next team to come.  I'm glad other people and other schools got to see UCA.
THE MODERATOR: That was Brianna followed by Kendara.
Q. I'm just curious what you took away from this Louisville team that helped you get to where Louisville is at this point?  They're kind of a powerhouse basketball team.  Just how you all can lay that foundation and move forward?
JAMEKA WATKINS: Obviously we know we're going to work our way up, like every day, knowing that the team next year is going to compete and give it all they have and just work hard every day.  I mean, hopefully, have our chance to be a powerhouse like Louisville.
BRIANNA MULLINS: They were a good team.  I feel like we came out in the beginning and we fought.  But like I said earlier, we're going to work hard.  Y'all are going to see us again.
Q. Coach, can you talk about some of the, I guess, key Louisville strengths that you scouted for this game?
COACH RUSHING: Yeah, I saw it firsthand, for sure.  They're fast.  They got up-and-down the floor.  Their transition we knew was going to be great.  We watched it.  We tried to send two back and they're strong.  We really don't match up inside.  They're just a powerhouse, like you said.
This is great for our program that we can go back and we'll break down the film, compare.  I mean, we know where we want to be at UCA, and it takes time.  But these players laid the foundation.  They've been here.
We've got to continue to work.  I think UCA is a great place and there's great schools.  If we can get people on campus, we can sell it.
These young ladies right here are just so wonderful to be around.  They bleed purple.  I just thought we played today.  And I know you didn't ask this, but I need to say this:  I thought the first quarter was great basketball.  One of the best that we've played all year.  Then they kind of punched us and we didn't really respond.  I thought the crowd got into it and then we scored nine points in the second half and they scored 29.
I thought things kind of -- the nerves and the crowd got into it.  It's a great atmosphere, don't get me wrong, but we just really were not ready for the big stage completely with the crowd, but I am proud of this team.  That was probably more than you wanted to know, but I needed to say that.
Q. You saw Myisha Hines-Allen on film, but to play against her in person, what stuck out to you?
COACH RUSHING: Wow.  I want one of those (laughing).  She can play.  Just everything that we saw on film, like I said, we got to live it today.  We knew going in that it was going to be a difficult match-up.  But like I said, I felt like we came out and had the energy and were believing a little bit, but then they cranked it up.  When they cranked it up, we did not have a chance to really -- we were lost defensively.  They're scoring, getting them down the floor.
I just to thank all our fans, our band and cheerleaders for coming and supporting us.  Hopefully we'll be back.  Go Sugar Bears.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT