THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 11, 2021
Nick Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. How would you describe your round out there?
 NICK TAYLOR:   Pretty solid.  A couple tee shots got me in trouble.  10 especially.  I took an unplayable there, made a good 5.  But I hit a lot of good shots coming in, made a good birdie on 16 with two good shots good shots and a 2-putt.
 I got a little lucky on 18, I hit it right and kind of shot one through the trees and ended up on the green, but it was nice to par that hole too.
 Q. How did you feel the course was playing out there today?
 NICK TAYLOR:   Tough.  It's, rough is up, so if you miss fairways there's no guarantee you can get to the green.  And the wind was kind of up all day, probably from the third hole on.  And greens are firming up.  So it's probably as tough I have seen it since I can remember, especially on a Thursday.
 Q. 17 green play a little firmer than some of the others?
 NICK TAYLOR:   Yeah, it was.  It's softened up a bit since I played Monday out there and it's softened up every day.  But it's firm.  If you land back on that back plateau there's a good chance with today a little help wind that it's going to go over.  So that's not a fun hole today.
 Q. You seem to be getting off to a lot of good starts we have been talking a lot during opening rounds, first couple rounds.  How do you feel like you need to take those opening rounds and take them into the weekend and maybe stay in contention a little longer?
 NICK TAYLOR:   For sure.  I've obviously two good starts at start of the year.  Riviera I think was a good stepping point, I had a good weekend there.  Kind of battled to make the cut and kept going.  My game feels good.  It's obviously just playing solid, those two instances where I played well, they're shoot-outs, kind of get off to a slow start on weekend you're getting lapped.  So I prefer these conditions where even par's a good score, so, yeah, I feel good about my game.
 Q. Why is it that you enjoy the harder conditions more than maybe a shoot-out?
 NICK TAYLOR:   I think it just, there's more precision.  Especially out here, it's definitely not a bomber's course, you got to put it in the right positions and I feel that's probably been the strength of my game for a long time.  So, yeah, I just prefer it.  I think that's the tougher the golf course I just prefer it.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT