SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 3, 2019
Nick Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Bogey-free; eagle at 15. Things must have been going your way.
NICK TAYLOR: Yeah, I drove it really, really nice today. That was a huge part of this golf course, getting it in play and you can attack from there. Yeah, to hit it close on 15 was nice, to make eagle there.
Had a run there one on the back, and then the front is obviously a little less scorable. It's only one par-5. But played solid, made a couple birdies, so it was nice.
Q. I know last week you were in good position going into te final round; didn't play well. How have you been able to bounce back and start off with a good day today?
NICK TAYLOR: Yeah, it was funny. The score didn't reflect great, but I actually didn't think I played that bad. It was just a tricky last couple days at Silverado. Few bounces here or there probably within two or three shots. I knew I was playing well, so looking forward to this week.
Q. The Presidents Cup is coming up in a few months. Couple international players have done well so far. Obviously like to get on this team. Is that something you think about or just trying to go about your business?
NICK TAYLOR: It's a goal of mine, but I'm definitely the outside looking in. Wins are probably what I need. If I'm playing well, it'll take care of itself. Hopefully have more some good starts, but we'll see. Long ways away.
Q. Course played well for you. How was the course actually playing out there today?
NICK TAYLOR: It was gettable. It was very benign in the morning with the wind. Greens are relatively soft and rolling well. Again, I hit a lot of fairways, was able to attack, and I took advantage of the par-5s.
It was just a really solid day overall.
Q. You play this tournament every year so you're clearly familiar with this golf course. How much did that hospital you leading to a 63 and hitting every single fairway?
NICK TAYLOR: Yeah, I like this golf course. I've had some really nice rounds out here. I really haven't put together a whole tournament, but, again, knew I was playing well coming into this.
Again, to hit every fairway is pretty key out here to be able to tackle out of the greens. Yeah, it was a great start.
Q. No doubt. Carrying over from last week's top 10 finish, what exactly in your game are you comfortable and happy with?
NICK TAYLOR: Not much I'm not comfortable with right now which is always a good thing. Been driving it great and putting solid. Again, if I hit it on the greens, I've been able to manage pars, capitalize on birdies, so overall been relatively easy.
So that's good.
Q. Minimizing mistakes as well without a bogey on the scorecard. Especially your front nine; an eagle on there. What exactly gave you a lot of momentum?
NICK TAYLOR: Yeah, the first two holes I actually hit pretty good drives. Had a little bit of mud on it so the ball just kind of took off oddly. Was able to make two good par saves to start the day, and from there was able to hit a bunch of greens, make some putts.
I hit a really nice drive on 15, six feet, made eagle, so that definitely got the round jump started.
And all the par-5s either I hit in two or I just off the green and made pretty easy birdies. That always makes the round pretty easy.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT