RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 28, 2018
Nick Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








NICK TAYLOR: I couldn't buy a putt the whole day.  It was nice to finally make one at 18 there.  Yeah, just couldn't make a putt, so it was kind of -- I couldn't get any momentum going.  That chip-in was nice.  I thought that was going to kind of get me going, and just couldn't get anything going.  It was nice to finish that way, get a little momentum going into tomorrow and get back to even was big.
Q. What did you think on the 7th hole, the reaction you got from the crowd?
NICK TAYLOR: It was awesome.  You know, that's a moment where you'll remember for a long time.  It's pretty fun to do it on that hole.  I think I've birdied that hole every day this week, so it's been good to me, so it's been fun.
Q. A little more distraction out there, a lot of people moving around and stuff, different effect for you?
NICK TAYLOR: Yeah, it's just something to deal with.  There's a lot of camera clicks.  I think I only had one putt where it somewhat bothered me.  I should have backed off.  But no, it was fun to have that many people.  It's definitely electric, and when I can chip in like that and make a putt on 18, it's fun.
Q. How did you feel about that crowd reaction on 18?
NICK TAYLOR: Yeah, it's great.  You know, it's great on many levels, get back to even to finish on a nice note, to do it on the last hole with a bunch of people around, it's fun.  Hopefully that carries me tomorrow.
Q. How important is tomorrow's round for you?
NICK TAYLOR: It's important on a lot of levels.  It's so bunched that a great round would go a long way.  Again, it's huge that I made that eagle to get back to even and feel like I salvaged something on the last hole.  I'm still in a decent spot.  I would have liked to play better today, but I'm still in a decent spot.
Q. (Indiscernible).
NICK TAYLOR: No, definitely not.  There might have been more DJ fans than Canadian fans, but it was still fun.  They were pulling for both of us.  It was fun.
Q. Did you watch him at all during the day, or were you focused on what you were doing?
NICK TAYLOR: Yeah, definitely.  He played great.  He made a lot of putts.  That was probably the biggest difference between us two.  He drives it so well and takes advantage of that, but he made a lot of putts, which made him round really good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT