RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 27, 2018
Nick Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Pretty good round, eight birdies on the card through the first two rounds.  
NICK TAYLOR: Yeah, I hit it a lot better today.  Made some silly bogeys.  Made a silly one on 1.  I was able to take advantage of 16.  I was in the middle of the fairway there.  But started to roll some putts on the last six, seven holes, so that was really nice.  I drove it way better today, too.  With the fairway here, with how soft the greens are, if you're in the fairway, it's much easier to attack some of these pins.   
 Q.  Did it feel like a bit of a roller coaster for you out there?  
NICK TAYLOR: Every time I felt like I got something going, I felt like I made a silly bogey.  The wind was very thick today.  It felt like we didn't really adjust, self-adjust for the first seven or eight holes into the wind.  It was hitting it really hard, and downwind was actually playing really short.  We adjusted for that the last eight or nine holes, and it was pretty good.   
 Q.  You're 127 right now; how do you sort of balance that versus where you are in the national championship, sort of keeping things compartmentalized; how difficult is that?  
NICK TAYLOR: Yeah, I came in having to play well, and I'm playing well the last few weeks, so I know what I have to do the next few weeks to secure my card.  But playing well today is only going to take care of that, so that's all I have to worry about.   
 Q.  Did I hear you're working with --  
NICK TAYLOR: Yeah, I started working with Mark McCann in May, early May, I think.  I've just been struggling for three or four months, just kind of needed a change-up, and things have started to work well.   
 Q.  Have you been working on anything special with Mark?  
NICK TAYLOR: Just some basic things are setup,, and then putting we worked a lot on speed.  It's been a lot better this week and the last couple days last week, so everything is starting to come together.   
 Q.  A lot of Canadians still playing today, but you could be low Canadian heading into the weekend.  What do you expect if that's the case with crowds only getting bigger?  
NICK TAYLOR: Yeah, I don't know how -- I think I'm three back, so that's kind of my main focus.  If I play well and I'm low Canadian, that's great, but I'm trying to win a golf tournament.  That could take care of it.   
 Q.  Tell us about the round, eight birdies on the card.  It's nice when you see those go in.  
NICK TAYLOR: It felt really good.  I hit it great off the tee, which set me up for a lot of short irons, and I gave myself a lot of chances.  Nice to roll some of those mid length ones, 10- to 15-footers on the back nine.  I actually missed a couple chances that I had on the back, as well, so I had a lot of chances and it was nice to make a bunch of them.   
 Q.  Wind seems a little bit stronger out here, a little gustier.  You described it as being thick.  Talk about that wind and what it was like.  
NICK TAYLOR: Yeah, into the wind it was really knocking it down.  For example, on 17, I think we had 140 yards, hit 8-iron into the wind and it went 130.  It was hard to judge.  And then vice versa, downwind the ball was carrying forever.  We're not used to that with it being hot in the summer, it's usually pretty thin, so it doesn't affect it as much, so it was an adjustment, and the last eight or nine holes we definitely fixed it.   
 Q.  You've been working a lot on your putting the last weeks and months.  Is it nice to see the ball going in after all that hard work?  
NICK TAYLOR: Yeah, my speed has been great.  That's really what I'm focusing on.  I've always read greens pretty well, and I've been starting it on line, it's just my speed has been very inconsistent, so it's been great this week, and all the hard work is starting to pay off.   
 Q.  I know low Canadian is something that you think about maybe after the 72nd hole.  Do you keep an eye on the other Canadians and how they're doing?  
NICK TAYLOR: Yeah, a lot of my buddies, I definitely keep an eye on.  I know David Hearn played well yesterday.  I'm not sure what Mac finished this morning, but he had a decent round going yesterday.  It's fun to see him playing well.  Hopefully we can get out there and give ourselves the best chance of winning.   
 Q.  Three bogeys in two days, is that a reflection of good ball-striking or because you've been starting to putt better?  
NICK TAYLOR: Yesterday I think was more the putting.  Today I hit it really well.  Actually two of my bogeys could have been avoidable for sure.  Today was a great round.  It's nice to make eight birdies on any course, and with this wind it was nice to take advantage of it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT