HUMANA CHALLENGE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CLINTON FOUNDATION
January 23, 2015
Nick Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Tell me about your round and what you felt today.   
NICK TAYLOR:   I putted really well.   It's definitely the strong point.   I had some good up‑and‑downs early, but I actually didn't hit it great from tee to green, I just scrambled really well and hit it in the right spots.   But, yeah, just putted great so I was really lucky to shoot 5‑under.  
   
 Q.   Tell me about the stretch from 8 through 11 and what you were really feeling and how everything was coined of clicking especially with your putter?  
NICK TAYLOR:   The first couple were 15 feet so you don't make those very often.   To throw those in in the round.   I hit the next couple close and was able to make those of the it was a nice stretch and just kind of got my round going and kind of held on and had a nice finish on 18.   
   
 Q.   11‑under, not sure exactly where you're going to wind up in the leaderboard, but how do you feel going into the weekend with the score that you have?  
NICK TAYLOR:   Really good.   Tomorrow I think is typically maybe the a little easier of the golf courses, so I'm excited to play there.   You get the range, hit it a little better tomorrow, but the putter feels good.  
   
 Q.   I guess what you need to do to try to win this tournament I know it's a long way until Sunday afternoon?  
NICK TAYLOR:   Keep making birdies.   The scores are typically crazy low here, so I think the weather's supposed to be the same as it was the first two days, so lots of birdies are needed.   
   
 Q.   What do you think about your form, kind of where your game is right now early in the season here?  
NICK TAYLOR:   Short game's felt really good this week.   Have not hit it great.   Alignment and stuff is just slightly off.   
So don't feel great over the ball, but keeping it in play, that's the most important part, so it's pretty good, but short game I'm happy with, I just need to sharpen up the ball striking.  
   
 Q.   What do you think about the course conditions out here?  
NICK TAYLOR:   The greens are perfect out here.   I think we got lucky today with the little wind.   I think yesterday it was windier out here since it was windier at Palmer.   We got a good break with the wind.   But the greens are so good if you're putting well it's fun.  
   
 Q.   How good are the greens in comparison to other TOUR courses, TOUR events, I know a lot of pros are high on greens here.   
NICK TAYLOR:   They're awesome.   This is my first year, so I don't have that many things to gauge it against, but they're awesome.   Just this whole week all the greens are perfect, so that's why I think you see scores so low typically, but, yeah, they're good, so it's nice when you're putting well if on greens like this.   
   
 Q.   Halfway through the tournament, you think you've put yourself in position for a possible top‑10 finish?  
NICK TAYLOR:   Absolutely if you told me 11‑under of the two rounds and I got easier of the three Nicklaus and Palmer last day, so hopefully I can keep it going.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT