SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
November 9, 2014
Nick Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Nick Taylor, 65 today ‑‑ sorry 66.   I'm not even going to count that bogey on 18 because it really didn't matter.   But amazing stuff.   And what I find extraordinarily fascinating about this story is that you had to play well just to get into the WEB.COM TOUR finals and then shoot 63 the final day of the final tournament to just get your TOUR card.   You got to just be on cloud 100 right now?
NICK TAYLOR:   Yeah.   At least.   It's been a whirlwind of a summer.   Six months ago I was struggling and I kind of kept at it and kind of got hot.   Putter started cooperating and today I putted unbelievable and first two days I did, too, so, yeah, it's pretty surreal.   I'm in shock, but I'm certainly happy about it.

Q.   I got to say, it was fun watching you kind of out there your composure out there was fantastic.   Did you feel any nerves playing with David Toms and Lucas Glover, both past Major champions?
NICK TAYLOR:   I was lucky enough to play with David yesterday and he was awesome to play with.   We chatted yesterday and obviously chatted today.   So I felt more comfortable today than probably yesterday, because they were both very well coming and very nice, so I felt very comfortable today. 
Obviously, the last few holes I had some nerves and I was able to make some putts, but they were great guys to play with.   So I was happy I was with them.

Q.   At what point did you look at the leaderboards and know where you stood in the tournament or if you did an at all?
NICK TAYLOR:   It was a little bit.   I kind of had a feeling where I was.   Coming up 17 and 18 I wanted to know.   On 18 I knew that, putting for par, that they had both were through 17 at 14‑under, so I was lagging that one as well, so. 
Actually, I hit a good putt it just didn't go in.   But it doesn't matter now. 

Q.   Congratulations on your first win. 
NICK TAYLOR:   Thanks a lot. 

Q.   2014 Sanderson Farms Championship winner.   300 FedExCup points.   Two‑year exemption.   Can you tell us how you feel right now?
NICK TAYLOR:   A little bit of shock, to be honest.   It was a week coming in where I was just trying to play well and kind of move up in the priority and obviously did a lot better than that. 
So it's not going to sink in for a long time and it feels great.   It's obviously a great start to the FedExCup and it's just such a great event.   I'm happy to be here and even happier to be the champion. 

Q.   66 today, eight birdies, two bogeys, you really hit it so well off the tee.   I think that seemed like it took a lot of pressure off any kind of nerves.   You just were never in trouble. 
NICK TAYLOR:   Yeah, certainly.   I worked a bit on it last night.   Yesterday I hit the ball pretty well off the tee, but was a little sideways, and worked on a bit of posture.   And just came out and hit it really, really well.   So, I was happy with this and obviously made it a lot easier when your in the fairways on this golf course.

Q.   I was talking to your caddie, and you were so relaxed, so calm, was there any peeking at any score boards on the way around?
NICK TAYLOR:   Yeah, it's tough for me not to look at them.   The last few holes I certainly was.   But the front nine I tried not to look at them.   It didn't really matter there was still so much golf left.   But I had a feeling where I was.   The last few holes, I knew where I was and I just kind of wanted to make some pars, hit some greens and luckily the 3‑putt didn't matter on 18.

Q.   And it you have really helped to get off to a good, solid start, good solid shots into the greens and good putts?
NICK TAYLOR:   Yeah, I hit some great drives on the par‑5s. 
5, I was able to go for the green which I didn't think was possible for me, so I was able it make an easy birdie there and kind of keep momentum going and made some good par putts, especially the one on 16.   And, yeah, it was a really good day on the greens for sure. 

Q.   And quite telling first person to congratulate you was Adam Hadwin at the back of the scorers tent.   Tell us how important that is for Canadian golf?
NICK TAYLOR:   It's great.   We're staying together this week.   Adam had such a great week.   I've been rooming with him a lot, it was awesome to see. 
And I saw David Hearn as well and he had a great year last year.   So, yeah, it's fun for us all to kind of get together and root for each other.   So it's nice.

Q.   Wonderful performance.   Go enjoy tonight. 
NICK TAYLOR:   Thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT