SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
November 6, 2014
Nick Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You were ready for this day, weren't you?   
NICK TAYLOR:   Yeah, it's a typical nice fall day in Seattle where I play in college and back home.   It was really nice teeing off.   It was sweater weather and the sun came out.   It was a nice day of golf for me.  
   
 Q.   Bogey free.   How did you approach the round today?   Picked your spots, how did you find the golf course?   
NICK TAYLOR:   It was definitely softer from what I played on Tuesday and greens were a little slower, so that was nice.   They were lightening on Monday and Tuesday.   So I didn't hit a lot of fairways, but I was missing the right spots so I was putting well today.  
   
 Q.   You missed a few fairways but were able to get it up and down, a perfect five for five.   Do you feel you left some birdies on the golf course you can get tomorrow?   
NICK TAYLOR:   If I hit more fairways, definitely attack more.   I had some tough lies and some knucklers, so it was tough to judge in the rough.   But if I hit more fairways and I can definitely tackle them, so that's the main objective, but if I keep it on the green and putting well, I'm fine with that.  
   
 Q.   You've got the opportunity like everyone on the field pretty much seeing this golf course for the first time.   Does that give you a little bit of a leg from an experienced standpoint that everybody gets here this week trying to figure this thing out?   
NICK TAYLOR:   Yeah, for sure.   This whole year I'll be playing catch up same as last year.   It's nice having a course that nobody has seen.   It's a pretty level playing field.   I know a few guys have probably played it.   I came in early and played the Monday Pro‑Am, which was nice, had a good week of practice.   It was nice to not have to catch up with running the course.  
   
 Q.   Can I get your thoughts on the course in general and a couple holes that stood out?   
NICK TAYLOR:   Yeah, the finishing holes 16, 17, 18, it was a good finish.   But there were some tougher holes, I think.   Some scoring holes on the back nine, both par‑5s you can get to the front of the green or around them.   15, I did, and I hit it 20 yards from the green.   So I'm not sure if it opened the tee up, but a lot of guys hit driver into that.   There were some scoring holes, but you have to hit the fairways on all the par‑4s to have a chance to go at the pins because if you have the wet Bermuda, it's tough to judge coming out of there, and the greens are so quick.   So fairways are key for sure, but they're definitely scoring.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned 16, 17, 18.   What about 16?   16 was when they revamped the course, 16 was one they made significant changes to.   They pushed that tee way back.   Your thoughts on that hole?   
NICK TAYLOR:   I never saw it the first time.   It's a tough hole.   The hazard off the left and especially by the green it comes into play big time, so lot of the pins are difficult.   But, yeah, that hole, again, if you hit on the fairway, you'll have a decent 9‑iron in.   I hit 9‑iron in, but into the wind it's definitely a tricky hole.   
   
 Q.   How good of a start was this for you to get out early?   While it was a little chilly, you posted a good one.   
NICK TAYLOR:   Yeah, I'm definitely happy with it.   It was playing cold this morning, playing long.   Some of the par‑5s weren't as reachable, but I took advantage of those luckily.   I was putting really well and gave myself a chance to make birdie, so I'm happy with that.  
   
 Q.   Fourth event in this new wraparound season.   What's the adjustment been like being out here trying to feel comfortable?   
NICK TAYLOR:   It was a quick turnaround, for sure.   It was a long finish to the Web season, with the Web finals and then only two weeks off and coming back out here.   I was playing well at the end of the year, so I felt good coming out here.   I've had some good rounds so far.   My game has felt good.   I'm excited for this event, next week, and I have a nice break after that.   But it's been a nice turnaround.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT