RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 27, 2008
Nick Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. So, Nick, you finished in red numbers for the week. Tell me about your experience. 
 NICK TAYLOR: It was a lot of fun. The first time I've played in a PGA tournament in Canada, in front of my home country. People were great all week. The weather was off and on. It was tough for the crowds to stay around and kind of get out and watch. 
 So, especially for them to come watch me, it's pretty cool for them to support me and watch me play. 

 Q. Can you tell us a little bit. You effectively had to make two cut this is week. You made the cut on Friday; you made two birdies coming home yesterday to be able to play today. Was that something you were thinking about? 
 NICK TAYLOR: You know, I actually didn't know about the second cut yesterday. I knew about the first cut, obviously, but I didn't know about the second cut. So I can't really claim I just was clutch with two birdies. I was trying to go as many birdies as I could. I heard about it, but I didn't think they were doing it this week. 
 You know, today I hit it really well, I just didn't make anything. I could have been a lot lower. Today I hit it well. I just didn't make anything. 

 Q. Did you play better this week than at the U.S. Open? 
 NICK TAYLOR: Yeah, I think so. I hit it well here, and I putt pretty well. At the U.S. Open I was struggling with my irons. I probably didn't putt as well at the U.S. Open. I had a lot of par putts there, but pretty similar. But here a little better.

 Q. This has been a little over a year since the Canadian Amateur, two PGA TOUR events, two national opens, you made the cut in one. It must be a sense, I don't want to say overwhelming, but are you a little surprised how far you've come in the last two years? 
 NICK TAYLOR: A little bit. But I've put a lot of hard work into it, so it's good to see results. It's been, I wouldn't say overwhelming, because it's probably been two, two and a half years. So it's all gradually gotten better. 
 I put a lot of hard work into it, so it's good to see stuff working out. So it's pretty cool.

 Q. Do you pick up on things that you have to work on? Not just back at school but long-term? I assume you want to turn pro some day? 
 NICK TAYLOR: Yep, for sure. Playing with Jason Day yesterday, 20 years old, out here full-time and playing with other pros every day. Just watching them and see how they prepare and how they hit shots, you learn things and you know you have to be a little better to be out here.

 Q. Dustin Risdon made the comment that you get used to this lifestyle. He's a pro player, but you get used to the lifestyle. But he almost seemed to acknowledge it wears on you not just physically, but, how did you keep in the moment to not sort of let it get away from you? 
 NICK TAYLOR: You know, I think being in the U.S. Open, just because there were so many people there and a lot of people supported me. Staying in the moment, for sure, was a big deal. 
 Coming out here, I knew I was playing well coming into it. I had a good two-week break, so I had a lot of energy and I was ready to go. So that was huge, having energy. 

 Q. Comments maybe on the Canadian Amateur and the Canadian Pro-Am. You are perhaps the best product to come out of it in the last couple of years? 
 NICK TAYLOR: It's been good. With training camps through the year. Especially me being in Washington with the weather in the Fall and early in the year in January is not very good. So being able to go to training camps, to go down and have a good weather and practices, doing drills and coaching stuff like that. It's been good to get away and get a jump start on the season. 
 So doing that and through the year with support through the tournaments, and being supported through the summer is big. 

 Q. Very likely both you and Mike could be very likely at the World Amateur Championship. Just comments about how that is shaping up? It's not that far away, is it? 
 NICK TAYLOR: Yeah, it's not. It's two or three months. So I'd love for Mike and I to be able to go. We've been friends for the last few years. Playing in the finals, going through it and representing your country, it's really cool. 
 It sucked he bogeyed the last couple of holes and missed the cut. I passed him, he was 2 under and I was even. So I thought he'd make some birdies and we'd both make the cut, but unfortunately he didn't. He's been struggling this year, but he's turned it around. 

 Q. A finish like this, does it make you think about turning pro at all? 
 NICK TAYLOR: No, not really, no. I've always planned to go through four years of school, get my degree. You know, college life, college golf is pretty awesome. I don't want to miss two years of it. 
 I haven't really thought about turning pro, and I probably won't until I'm out of school, so. 

 Q. Do you even allow yourself to think of the fact that finishing this week, I want to get to 17, 18 right away? 
 NICK TAYLOR: A little bit. But it motivates me to work hard in the next couple of years to get out here fast out of school and just stay here. It's quite the life out here, so it's pretty exciting. 

 Q. You see the support that Mike Weir gets especially at this tournament; is that something you could see yourself becoming one day? 
 NICK TAYLOR: I'd love that. How much support he gets is pretty awesome throughout the whole country. Even if I did half his accomplishments on the PGA TOUR, that would be pretty awesome, so, yeah, definitely. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT