NCAA MEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: BUFFALO
March 15, 2017
V.J. Beachem
Steve Vasturia
Matt Farrell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Okay.  Now joined by Notre Dame student-athletes to my far right, senior, V.J. Beachem; senior, Matt Farrell, and senior, Steve Vasturia.  Same rules apply.  We'll get a microphone to ask these gentlemen your questions.  We'll go ahead and open for questions now.
Q. If I could trouble all of you guys, actually.  Every year this team gets here and every year everyone seems a little surprised.  I think Coach Brey flies way under the radar as a coach of prominence.  Why do you think that is and what do you think he does for this program?
V.J. BEACHEM: I think it start off with the fact that lot of people think of Notre Dame as a football school.  And then secondly, playing in the ACC, you hear about a lot of coaches in ACC.  Coach Brey has done, not only the last few years, but throughout his entire time at the University of Notre Dame, he's been probably the most successful coach in the state of Indiana by far.  A lot of things that he's done really fly under the radar, because we were in the Big East and now being in the ACC.
MATT FARRELL: Yeah.  I think it speaks volumes of the culture that he's been able to build at Notre Dame, and the guys that he's been able to recruit and guys that we've had in the past.  I think he's done an incredible job just getting wins, and then playing well in big games.  He's just a very fun guy to play for, creates a good environment for us and we just have a lot of fun playing for him.
STEVE VASTURIA: Agree with both what they said.  Coach does a great job getting guys who buy in to what he's teaching.  We always have seniors and juniors playing a lot of minute, us three have been fortunate enough to play behind some really good players and learn from them.  I believe Coach Brey has done an unbelievable job and is one of the best coaches in the country.  And I think we've just got to continue to keep winning, and he'll get some of that credit.
Q. This is for everyone.  Obviously, Princeton is on your mind now, but just looking ahead, I know, having the defending champs staring down at you on the other side, any extra excitement of the possibility of getting to face them early on in this?
STEVE VASTURIA: I think right now, obviously, you know, we know the way this tournament works.  Our focus is on Princeton.  You really don't want to look past that.  They are a really good team and we're going to have to play really well for 40 minutes on both ends of the floor to move on.
Q. You just kind of talked about it and this is for anybody.  12-5, historically, there is an upset in the tournament seems like every year.  How do you make sure you're not on the wrong side of that upset and you don't move forward and took ahead like Tom just asked?
V.J. BEACHEM: I think the number one thing is treating every opponent with respect regardless of our seed or their seed or anything like that.  You know, I think a lot of people were talking about our seed on Sunday when it came out, as far as the 12-5 match-up.  But behind closed doors, we aren't worried about that at all.  We just want to go out there and play our game regardless of who we're playing against regardless, when it is, and wherever it is.
THE MODERATOR: Other questions?
Q. Question for Steve.  You mentioned the whole idea of ACC and how it's so strong.  You guys have that four-game losing streak there in the middle.  How do you keep things in perspective when you're playing in such a tough conference like that?
STEVE VASTURIA: Yeah.  I think I mentioned before, we have a lot of older guys who have been through a long conference season, and, you know, playing in the ACC, you're going to face some adversity.  We got off to a great start.  We won our first five games, but the way the league is, you're going to run into some bumps along the way.  And I think the great thing about this team, you know, the guys up here, and Bonzie and the other guys who play, we never lost confidence.  We knew we had to kind of keep plugging, and after that losing streak, we had a home game, and once we got a win, we kind of got it rolling from there.  So just never losing confidence.  I think that starts with Coach Brey and the way he keeps us ready, allows us to play loose, and all we needed, I think, was one win to get back on track.
THE MODERATOR: Any other questions for our any more questions for Notre Dame student-athletes before moving on?  Not seeing any.  Guys good luck tomorrow.  With the early tip-off, 12:15.  Appreciate your time and good luck tomorrow.  We'll have Coach Brey up here at 1:05.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT