ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
June 22, 2019
Sarfaraz Ahmed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. It's a big game tomorrow, the last one week, how has the world changed for you, because now like till around this time last week, you are confident about getting in there and after that, things seemed to have changed.  What is the situation now with the team?
SARFARAZ AHMED: Definitely it is a tough thing for us, but after the match, we give two days rest for the players out of the wicket.  But after three days -- before three days, we practising hard.  So morale is very high for us.  The tournament is now open now, so we have a chance.  So we are focussing match by match.  So hopefully we will try to win tomorrow's match.
Q. You were in South Africa earlier this year for a series.  You just lost that series.  It was a very competitive series.  How much can we read into that series loss against South Africa, or was it a totally new team, totally new vibe, everything?
SARFARAZ AHMED: If you talk about the South Africa series, it's different.  Bilateral series, different type of pressure.  We played good cricket but unfortunately we didn't win the series.
But we are very hopeful to against South Africa.  In the World Cup, we go against South Africa, it's good for Pakistan, so hopefully we will try for our best.
Q. Sarfaraz, psychologically, how disturbed are you that you are not there where you should be?
SARFARAZ AHMED: I don't think so, but everything is fine.  Certainly psychological we see as the pressure as a captain if you lost against India in a World Cup match, people will think we beat; we lost first time in a World Cup.
But we all are okay.  We all are backing ourselves, so hopefully we will bounce back in tomorrow's match.
Q. Looking at the South African team, who are the threats you should be aware of?
SARFARAZ AHMED: Not thinking about only the one player.  We all know South Africa have good players on their team.  So we are all focussing for the whole team.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT