AL DIVISION SERIES: ANGELS v RED SOX
October 5, 2007
Manny Ramirez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Can you describe the moment you just experienced? 
 MANNY RAMIREZ:  First, you know, want to thank God for the talent that he gave me. 
 And in that moment, I'm just trying to see the ball, you know, and trust myself.  I ain't trying to do too much.  You know, I got a lot of confidence in myself.  He's one of the greatest closers in the game, and I'm one of the best hitters in the game.  You know, he missed his spot, and got good timing on the ball, and that's it. 

 Q.  So many times your partner in crime David Ortiz has come through in these playoff situations, how did it feel for you to hit a walk-off home run in the playoffs? 
 MANNY RAMIREZ:  It feels great, man.  It's been a long time I don't do something special like that.  But I haven't been right all year round.  But I guess, you know, when you don't feel good and you still get hits, that's when you know you are a bad man. 

 Q.  Mike Scioscia said they've taken chances before by walking David Ortiz.  Until that moment, things had worked out okay.  Did that enter your mind at all that he was intentionally walked to bring you up into that position? 
 MANNY RAMIREZ:  Not really.  It's just a little game that he's playing.  But I try to be patient.  Patience is the key and confidence in myself.  So I know it's just a little game.  He's walking.  But sometimes I don't get good pitches to hit.  You know, just trying to give me the chase, you know.  Just a little game that he's playing.  But just trying to be patient. 

 Q.  Can you talk about being out there after and sitting out three or four weeks. 
 MANNY RAMIREZ:  It feel goods, man.  Sometimes I can miss three weeks and I still can come and get hits because I am one of the best players in the game.  I have confidence in myself, and I know my train doesn't stop there. 

 Q.  You said that you haven't been right all year, what do you mean by that?  What else have you battled other than your oblique? 
 MANNY RAMIREZ:  Just my timing all year round haven't been right.  But man, like I said, even when I'm not right, I get hits.  So you know, I just go to battle, and keep preparing the way I'm preparing.  Because I never go down, you know, I'm always working hard and that's it.  That's me, man. 
 Even when you don't feel good and you get hits, like I said, you're a bad man. 

 Q.  When you're up there, it's a 1-all count, the minute you hit it, I'm assuming you know this thing's gone? 
 MANNY RAMIREZ:  One of the best feeling ever.  You know, I never look for pitches.  I always trust myself.  Like I said, in that situation that guy got me out so many times.  But baseball's like that.  Sometimes you get me, sometimes I get you.  And I got him at the right time. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT