MLB WORLD SERIES: CARDINALS v RED SOX
October 27, 2004
Manny Ramirez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  You said in Spring Training that this was the year, but did you really, truly believe that it would come to this?
 
MANNY RAMIREZ:   I did, you know.  I went through a lot of drama during the winter, but I keep my mind positive and I told my wife before the season started, "Hey, baby, this is going to be my year.  This is the year."  And we did it, man.  We're the champs. 
 
Q.  What does it mean for you to be the MVP of this series?
 
MANNY RAMIREZ:   It means a lot.  But I want to get the ring, and I have it.  That's the something that nobody is going to take away from you.  The other stuff, you never know when you're going to get it.  But I'm just blessed to be the MVP and to win a World Series.  I think God is blessing me with a lot of stuff, my two kids, my wife, everything.  I have it all.  There's nothing that I can complain about. 
 
Q.  First of all how old are your children and what are their names?
 
MANNY RAMIREZ:   One is nine and the other one is 22 months. 
 
Q.  Boys, girls?
 
MANNY RAMIREZ:   Two boys. 
 
Q.  Their names?
 
MANNY RAMIREZ:   Manny, junior and the other Manuelito. 
 
Q.  You were talking last night about when the Red Sox tried to trade you, and what you went through.  How did you get through those days?
 
MANNY RAMIREZ:   You know, I left everything in God's hands.  I said, well, if they want me to go back to Boston, I'm going to go back to Boston.  If they want me to be in Texas, I'm going to prepare myself to have a great year.  If I'm going back to Boston, you know, and I did, it's because it's a reason.  God sent me back for a reason, and that's why I'm here. 
 
Q.  How surprised are you that you guys were able to take this in a sweep?  Not an easy thing to ever do, especially in a World Series?
 
MANNY RAMIREZ:   I think we learned a lot when we played against the Yankees, because we lost the first three games.  And today I went and was talking to some of the guys, and I said, "Hey, let's go.  Don't let those guys breathe."  We know what happened against New York, we came back.  And in baseball anything can happen out there.  So we came back, we won. 
 
Q.  You told me in Chicago that you were going all the way.  Is this it?
 
MANNY RAMIREZ:   Yes, I did.  When I was in Chicago I told him we're going all the way, we're going to keep playing hard and we're going to blank out all the negativity.  We are a bunch of idiots that we go out to have fun and we don't think -- we eliminate thinking, and we have fun and pick each other up. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT