UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 26, 2012
Quandre Diggs
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Quandre Diggs.     
   
 Q.   Where have you made the most improvement over the last four weeks?     
QUANDRE DIGGS:   After the OU game, we've come back, taken great pride in our work.   Just intensity on the practice field has picked up so much.     
We just look at those senior leaders, those guys came out, gave it all they had at practice, Tuesday through Thursday.   Those guys was in the film room on Monday.   They had us in there watching film.   Just preparing.     
Have a lot of young guys on the defense.   We all just have to mesh.   It took a lot longer than we expected.   I feel we can come out and play a good brand of football these last four or five games.     
   
 Q.   As kind of the leader on this defense, do you take something away from that, what you need to do next year?   
QUANDRE DIGGS:   No doubt.   Those guys are great examples for us.   Like I said, they come out and give it their all at practice.   There's something being young you have to learn.   Those guys, I look up to A.L. and Kenny as my older brothers.   They taught me so much over this past year, that's just going to help me continue and be a great player in the future.     
   
 Q.   You had a pretty big hit last year against K State early.   Do you feel that's something you're going to have to do again?   
QUANDRE DIGGS:   No doubt.   You have to get after everybody each week quick.   If we can get something jumping like that again this week against them, it will definitely be fun.   Bring us a lot of intensity, have guys excited to go out and play.   You can wake everybody up with something like that.     
If I have to do it again, I'm going to try to do it again for my teammates because I love those guys.   I just want to go out and win this game.     
   
 Q.   What makes Collin Klein so good?   
QUANDRE DIGGS:   He's a warrior.   Seen that last year against us.   He took those shots but he continued to get up and lead his team.     
He's their team leader.   They fight for him.   They know he's going to give it all he has.   They're going to spill whatever they have for him.     
We just got to go out, gap assignment, continue to be physical.     
   
 Q.   Anybody like him quarterback-wise that you've gone up against?   
QUANDRE DIGGS:   No, I don't think we played a quarterback like him that runs the same, the way he does.   He comes up, you know he's going to run the ball, but he still continues to get yards.     
Like I say, you got to be physical with those guys.   If we out-physical them, I feel like it will be a good game.   
   
 Q.   Do you think this will be a test for the defense?   
QUANDRE DIGGS:   Every week is a test.   This is the biggest test.   You're on national TV at 7:00.   Everybody is watching to see how much Texas improved just from last week.   You know they're going to run the ball this week.   I feel like this is a statement game for us.   They're a top-10 team.   Who can't be excited for that?     
   
 Q.   I heard Lou Holtz say, Teams are ruining dreams or fulfilling dreams.   What is this team doing?   
QUANDRE DIGGS:   I don't know what y'all's dreams are.   My dreams are to win.   If we can get the win this week, I guess we're fulfilling dreams.     
   
 Q.   Do you think of this as a spoiler role, spoiling the Heisman chase?   
QUANDRE DIGGS:   The way I answered the question the first time I think is right.   I am not into those spoiler things.   Regardless of any motto, I want to go out and win every Saturday.     
Spoiling anything, that's not a big deal to me.   Heisman thing, that's not a big deal to me.   Like I say, I want to go out and win.   
   
 Q.   Will you look at any film from last year?   
QUANDRE DIGGS:   Of course we do.   We look at that, try to bring that same mentality this year.   Just go out, be tough with those guys, start the game off right.   If you start the game off right, you're going to have a good vibe for the rest of the game.   It's something we got to do.   We got to start and finish fast.     
Like I said, out-physical those guys, you're going to have a great game.     
   
 Q.   How much more physical are they?   
QUANDRE DIGGS:   Last year they wasn't number seven in the AP.   They must have improved.   I know Collin is throwing the ball better.   That's helping their offense out a lot.     
Like I said, go out, out-physical those guys, we'll have fun.   
   
 Q.   (Question regarding bowl scenarios.)     
QUANDRE DIGGS:   I haven't really been paying attention to that.   If we're just being real, I haven't paid attention to it.   I know if we win, we have a better chance of getting to a better bowl.   That's the fun thing.     
   
 Q.   This team has beaten Texas four straight times in a row.   How do you think they've had the edge?   
QUANDRE DIGGS:   Honestly, I couldn't tell you.   I watched a couple of those games.   They're a great-coached team.   [] Coach Snyder, they come to play each and every week.   I feel like they're mature guys.   They play each and every week with a lot of intensity.     
It's kind of crazy to see our record against them.   We can go out and change that.   I have three more years to play these guys.   I hope to change that while I'm here.   
   
 Q.   (Question regarding backup quarterback.)     
QUANDRE DIGGS:   Alex used to play quarterback before he was a punter.   He can throw the ball just as well.   Got to get him reps, have him ready to go.     
   
 Q.   Is a week long enough to get him ready?     
QUANDRE DIGGS:   I hope so.   Hopefully we don't have to get to that.   Keep him at his job of punting, let David and Case take care of that.   I don't want to think about that situation (laughter).     
   
 Q.   What was the attitude of the team after a couple days off?     
QUANDRE DIGGS:   Guys are down.   I remember being home all weekend, looking at teams playing.   It was still kind of unreal to me what happened.   It's not something that we expected.     
Guys came back with the mentality that you got to work.   We can't let that loss beat us this week, that's for sure.   These guys are going to come out ready.   It's their Senior Day.   It's fun, national TV.   Who can beat that.     
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT