UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 29, 2012
Quandre Diggs
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Quandre Diggs.   

Q.   (Question regarding the defense.)   
QUANDRE DIGGS:   I think that's the defense that we all expect.   It was great to come out and finally click on things, kind of get in our groove.   
There's still four games left.   If we can finish these four games strong like we played Saturday, it will be great for us, great confidence.   Just be great confidence heading into the bowl game.   

Q.   (No microphone.) 
QUANDRE DIGGS:   I feel like guys just played faster.   Kind of just see ball, hit ball.   We have 11 guys swarming to the ball, just getting after it.   It's always fun to see as we watched film yesterday just guys attacking the ball, everybody jumps on the pile.   
That's just part of playing football and having fun with it.   

Q.   Do y'all need to get to a point where you're not thinking as much but just reacting?   
QUANDRE DIGGS:   That helps a lot.   If you know your assignment, you can play so much more faster.   Things just come to you in a quick little second.   
When we got guys reacting like that, that's when we can attack the ball.   Everybody can go out and play the game.   That's something you expect from Texas defenses. 

Q.   Why would this week be different? 
QUANDRE DIGGS:   Those guys, I feel like, match up just fine with other offenses that we've seen.   They come out and play.   They're going to score points, rack up their yards.   But we got to contain those guys, just hold those guys to what they're used to getting.   Go out, play tough, physical.   
That's the main thing, we have to be physical with these last four teams, show that Texas can also play physical football, too.   
It's going to be fun these last four weeks.   I'm so excited to play in games like this.   

Q.   You'll see a Heisman quarterback.   What do you like or dislike about it? 
QUANDRE DIGGS:   Great quarterback.   Played against him last year.   He's a year older, a year wiser.   He makes plays.   That's one thing about him.   He comes through in the clutch.   He has those guys going this year.   That's what they expect from their quarterbacks.   They've had those quarterbacks for the last 10 or 12 years.   
It's just something that you expect from Tech's offense.   

Q.   (No microphone.) 
QUANDRE DIGGS:   Just going with the calls that Coach Diaz gives us.   I go out, try to make plays for my guys.   There's just something about when you finally get that chance to blitz, you got to take advantage of it.   Two sacks by the corners.   That's great, to switch the job with AO.   I wouldn't mind coming off the edge a little more.   

Q.   What do you think about Texas Tech, this rivalry? 
QUANDRE DIGGS:   It's a great rivalry.   That atmosphere is going to be crazy on Saturday.   I've never been, but I've always heard about it.   
I just know that they out there getting ready right now.   The fans are surrounding their stadium right now.   It's going to be fun.   Like I said, it's another high-powered offense that you enjoy in the Big 12.   Being a defensive back, that's the reason you come in this conference.   You know they're going to throw the ball at least 40 or 50 times.   

Q.   With the balance they have with the run and the pass, what is more important for the defense? 
QUANDRE DIGGS:   You know, your first goal is always to stop the run.   If you can take away the run, you can get in a lot of different things, kind of make the offense one-dimensional.   It's going to be important to stop both of them, trust me.   But if we can stop the run this week, it will be very important to us.   

Q.   You have won two in a row, you're hot.   But nail-biters.   Is that what we should expect? 
QUANDRE DIGGS:   It's the thing with the Big 12.   Everybody in the Big 12 is good, no matter what you say.   It's one of the toughest conferences in the nation.   We have tremendous teams in this conference and they all come out and play each and every weekend.   Everybody has great players.   Everything is starting to get even.   
Just got to come with it.   You need those tight games.   Sometimes it shows you what your team is made of in those tight games.   We won the last two.   If the game is going to be close, we know how to win in those situations.   

Q.   What do you think about Case?   
QUANDRE DIGGS:   Nothing surprises me with Case.   He's just a football player.   He comes out and play each and every weekend.   He prepares just like he's a starter.   
Seeing him throw those balls that last series, it's something that you expect.   We see it every Tuesday, Wednesday with Case.   He comes out and prepares hard against us.   He makes our jobs a lot harder at practice because he keeps us on edge.   He just knows defenses and he reads defenses great.   
On that last play call where they got the double move going, it was a great play by Case, a great catch by Mike.   Those guys have a great connection with each other.   

Q.   How important is getting a seventh win and finishing strong? 
QUANDRE DIGGS:   The seventh win is just as big as the sixth win.   All these wins count now.   If we can get these last four, 10-2, I think it would be a big deal, to win these last four, just continue to gain momentum going into the bowl game.   If we can finish 11-2, it will be a great year for us. 

Q.   Halloween week.   Do you participate?   Did you participate growing up?   Favorite costume?   
QUANDRE DIGGS:   I think my favorite costume was my Men in Black costume back when I was about second or third grade.   I think I wore it for three years straight.   The last year the pants were a little too small.   That was my favorite costume for sure.   I thought I was a little Will Smith.   
But I got work to do during the week now.   

Q.   Still eating that candy? 
QUANDRE DIGGS:   Might do.   19 years strong, no cavities.   I'm blessed to be able to eat candy and have no cavities. 

Q.   What was the candy you liked?   
QUANDRE DIGGS:   Anything chocolate.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT