UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 1, 2012
Quandre Diggs
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Quandre Diggs.   

Q.   Does the defense feel mad, angry?   What are y'all feeling? 
QUANDRE DIGGS:   We fine as long as we win, you know what I'm saying?   I feel like we didn't play like we wanted to.   But at the end of the game, Texas won.   That's all we really care about.   We feel like we were the better defense on the field because we got the win.   We had more points than they scored.   We got the job done.   

Q.   How big of a challenge is this game? 
QUANDRE DIGGS:   It's going to be a great challenge.   But, hey, it's why you come to this league.   You come to this league to go against great offenses.   You knew that when you signed those papers.   
You be ready to go in.   I'm ready for the challenge. 

Q.   What do you think about West Virginia? 
QUANDRE DIGGS:   They're a great team.   I feel like this is one of the best conferences in the country.   We're glad that West Virginia is here.   It's going to be a great week, just great preparation.   Just ready for this week.   

Q.   Is the offense all hyped up? 
QUANDRE DIGGS:   I don't know.   You tell me.   You guys look at that stuff more than we do.   
But we just go out and try to execute our plays, do what we do.   As long as we execute out there, it will be fine.   

Q.   20 passing touchdowns, no interceptions.   Will you change that this week? 
QUANDRE DIGGS:   We go out and execute, you can change a lot of things.   

Q.   What is it like to get a game like this at home finally?   It's been a while.   
QUANDRE DIGGS:   It's going to be fun.   Two top-10 teams.   I feel like the crowd is going to be really juiced up for this game.   The first time in Austin that we've had two top-10 teams in maybe five years or so.   So it's going to be a real great game, great fans.   
I'm just ready for everybody to come out and cheer us on.   We'll go out there and get that win.   

Q.   How much confidence do you have coming off this last game? 
QUANDRE DIGGS:   I feel like the guys on defense are always going to have confidence.   That's one of the things, we have a lot of swagger on defense.   It's going to take a lot, you know, to bring us guys down.   
We hear the talk.   We hear all that.   At the same time we're very focused.   We're just ready for the challenge.   I'm the type of guy, you know, I love challenges.   That's just the way I'm made.   I'm a competitor.   I'm going to go out and compete each and every day.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, Quandre.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT