MONSTER ENERGY NASCAR CUP SERIES: TOYOTA/SAVE MART 350
June 25, 2017
Clint Bowyer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: We will continue on with today's Monster Energy NASCAR Sprint Cup media availability, and we're joined by Clint Bowyer, driver of the No.14 Cars 3 Ford for Stewart‑Haas Racing. Clint, that was a wild race out there today. I mean, cars coming in damaged, beaten up, dirt, rubber all over these cars. Would you walk us through the race from your perspective and the kind of battle it was out there?   
CLINT BOWYER: Well, let's face it, short runs have never been my strong suit here, the long runs are, and thank God we got a long run there. I was out of tires. By the time I got done tearing the hell out of my car, I was out of tires. Those stages, you know, I mean, obviously this is the first crack at it. That's what lends to tore‑up race cars. It's such a short stage, there was some technical strategy that you've got to try to play and get track position, and then all of a sudden you're on the bad side of tires trying to hold guys off and you're blocking. They're stacked up behind them, and it's just a recipe for disaster. You know, the 47 car down there, I just didn't see him and knocked the whole front end off our car. Somebody else I had a really good run on and I thought they were going to give it to me, and they didn't. Brad spun me out. So yeah. One of them days.   
   
 Q. How was aerodynamics in that car after it got torn up? You still came in second.   
CLINT BOWYER: Not as good as they were. I can promise you that. When it was really flaring and there was a huge hole in it, it was plowing terribly bad in the high‑speed stuff. You know, it's just patience and try to take care of my stuff, I mean, just do all my normal stuff that's always gotten me to be good out here, and thank God I got that long run and was able to lean on some of my expertise here, if there is any, just taking care of my stuff and babying it and not spinning the tires and being good on the end back of a run.   
   
 Q. I know you need a win, but is it nice to see Harvick win at all, and‑‑  
CLINT BOWYER: Well‑‑  
   
 Q. Is there any sense that his team was frustrated, too?   
CLINT BOWYER: Let's face it, you're not going to keep that team that's won a championship, won all these races in the last five years, you're not going to keep them out of winning Victory Lane anyway, so it's not like I was looking at that team as one I was going to have to point my way into to beating for the Chase. Let's face it, yeah, we've got to win. We need a win in a big way, and today would have been a great win, but after everything that happened, I mean, to get second place is, I guess, really good, as a matter of fact.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT