NASCAR SPRINT CUP SERIES: FEDERATED AUTO PARTS 400
September 7, 2013
Clint Bowyer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   We heard the radio, and people that hear that radio, somebody asking you if your arm is hurt or if the car is getting hot, they're going to want to know did you spin on purpose to help your teammate?  
CLINT BOWYER:   No, we had a flat tire or something.   We went from leading the race and got back there, and they were driving off from us.   I got down in there, it kept getting tighter and tighter and tighter, and then the 88 got in there, and by the time I got back to the gas he got into me and I had so much wheel in it, it just snapped around.   
But it sucks.   The whole weekend was looking good.   We led, got caught in the pits.   That's the third week in a row we were leading and had a legitimate shot at winning and just got caught in the pits again, and it wasn't our night.   You never want to be that guy, and unfortunately changed some things up there at the end.   I'm super proud of Pattie and everybody for giving me another great race car that's capable of winning.   We've got to get this bad luck behind us, but nonetheless we're running well, and I feel like we still have a car capable of contending for a championship.  
   
 Q.   You make the Chase again with this team‑‑  
CLINT BOWYER:   Kind of hard to celebrate with all this stuff going on, but we'll get this behind us and go on.   You know, it's been a long year.   It's crazy to think that all this comes down to the end every year here at Richmond, but it does.   A bunch of cars racing back there for everything.   You know, it's unfortunate that some good cars had to lose this deal because they're plenty capable of winning a championship.   I'm telling you, in this sport right now, I think 14 to 15 cars had a legitimate shot, given a roll or whatever, to win a championship.   But it wasn't our night again.   Hopefully it'll be our night soon.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT