SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 30, 2009
Carlos Dunlap
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		   THE MODERATOR: Could you give us your thoughts on the match-up this weekend? 
 CARLOS DUNLAP: It's going to be a big match-up, 1 versus 2. A real good game. Competitive game. This is the type of game that everybody wants to play in, want to play football in. You always want to be in a good game or a game with a lot of competition, that just brings out the best in good players.

 Q. They returned just about every starter on defense, two deep. What is the biggest improvement you've seen in your defense this year versus last year? Is it totally similar from last year? Or have you seen some growth and improvement?
 CARLOS DUNLAP: Of course, with the year of experience, just being together as a team, you trust one another and like knowing your teammates, like what they're going to do in certain situations or like what they know what you're going to do. 
 So if I was like the counter or something and Spikes fit in my gap, just small things like that. Just playing together. Like growing up together, when you play with the same basketball team. They know when you're going to do certain things. There's respect for your teammates.

 Q. You and Alabama have been the top two defenses pretty much all season. How much do you pay attention to those stats, measure yourselves up against what Alabama is doing? Did you pay much attention to what they were doing over the course of the season defensively?
 CARLOS DUNLAP: No. We've been focusing just each week getting better ourselves and working on things we didn't do too well the week before, we messed up on in that previous game before. We've been constantly concentrating on ourselves, looking at what we can do to get better or to better ourselves.

 Q. How much credit does Mickey Marotti deserve for the performance in the fourth quarter last year against Alabama, and just the fourth quarter in general, how much credit does Mickey Marotti deserve?
 CARLOS DUNLAP: Technically, training hard in the weight room and doing everything we do like pushing beyond your limits, like after you're completely done and tired and worn out, the only place you do that is in the weight room. 
 Over the summer and winter, doing the massacres, as we call them, everything we do. That right there trains you for like the fourth quarter and pushing beyond your limits and knowing when you have to go into overtime and just step it up another gear even when you're done.

 Q. You kind of compared this Alabama offensive line you're going to be going up against, a couple new faces on it compared to last year. How does it look compared to last year's offensive line?
 CARLOS DUNLAP: We just started on films today. I caught a couple of their games. They look pretty good. In the SEC you're going to play against a pretty good offensive line. I mean, just overall good teams. 
 Then even if they're not a good team, you're going to get a team's best shot no matter how good they are or how good their stats are. So the team is always going to come to play when they've got a chip out for you or when you're the number one team or when you're having a good season or just because we're the Gators.

 Q. Joe talked earlier about the leadership that Ryan Stamper brings to you guys. Could you compare him and Spikes and how they differentiate in leadership qualities?
 CARLOS DUNLAP: Basically they're like the Tebow of our defense. You know how Tebow controls the offense and gets the offense and keeps them in check when they're going through adversity or anything, Stamper and Spikes are basically the guys we go to on the defense in those situations, that the offensive players would go to Tebow in.
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT