AL DIVISION SERIES: RANGERS v YANKEES
October 6, 1999
Doug Melvin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What were your expectations when you signed Rafael, and how would you assess the
season he's had for you?

DOUG MELVIN: I think he's gone beyond expectation. I think he is, if not, the most
underrated player in the game today. I don't think people give him the publicity that they
do, but he's very consistent. He puts up the numbers he puts up, if you look at it, he's
one of the most consistent hitters in the '90s. He brought us leadership qualities and
skills. I'm not sure people gave him credit for that. There's a lot of intangibles he
brought to our ballclub. He's played hurt through the whole year. The left-handed bat in
the middle of the order, hitting behind Juan was real big for us. It proved it during the
year; he had a great year and helped the club have the best team record in franchise
history. And he was a huge part of that.

Q. You don't need any of us to tell you, you guys have scored one run in the last four
playoff games against the Yankees now. Is there anything your club can do short of
offering incentive clauses for post-season hits against the Yankees?

DOUG MELVIN: You know, I know that the guys are going out there and giving it their
best. We're a very good offensive ballclub, and we'll break out of it somewhere along the
line here, just hope it's sooner than later. You know, there's no doubt they think about
it. But it's just too good a line-up, the players are too good offensive players to not go
out there and put up a good run. You know, you have to give credit to the Yankees, too.
The Yankees pitchers are very good. And I think last night, you know, if Juan's ball
dropped -- Bernie doesn't make a great catch, Rafael's ball goes into the corner, it's a
different ball game. They made two great defensive plays on two balls that were hit, and
we focused on each game at a time during the season we did that, we didn't get too up or
too down after losses, and we have to continue to get the same approach. We can't worry
about last night's game, it's behind us now. Let's see what we can do tomorrow night.

Q. Would you rather see the best record team play the wild card, even if it's the same
division?

DOUG MELVIN: Yeah, I think so. I think that the general managers meetings, it was
brought up last year. I assume it will be brought up again. It just doesn't seem right
that the number one seed doesn't have to play the wild card, and I hope that we can at
least bring that up in hopes of getting a change.

Q. What the thought process is for not allowing the team in the same division to play
each other, what is the rationale for that?

DOUG MELVIN: I think it was just because of the rivalry during the year that -- was
what I had understood it to be. The number of games they play in their own division and
the scheduling and that they didn't want them facing each other right off the bat. But it
does create a lot of problems.

Q. You've been around the game long enough to know you only get a certain number of
opportunities to get to the World Series and maybe win a world championship. How
imperative is it that you guys at least win a series and move ahead in your program?

DOUG MELVIN: It's important. It's important. I haven't been told how many chances I get
yet, so -- (Laughter.) I guess that's important, too. But I know it's important to do
that. It was important for us to get to post-season five years ago, franchise went 25
years without getting to post-season. We've done it three of the last four years, and we
need to keep building on that. And, you know, you can look at it and I think the Atlanta
Braves and the Cleveland Indians have had a great run in the '90s and they've only had one
World Series. Our goal without looking at other teams, is to win the World Series. We feel
this is the best chance we've had; this is the best team we've had, and we still think
that we have the team that can do it. But you do have to win a -- you do have to win a
series before you can think of the World Series, and that, but we all know what we have to
do. It's just been -- Yankees have made it difficult for us.

Q. You mentioned the Braves and the Indians. Who, in your opinion, is the team of the
'90s, and how will what happens in this post-season impact that?

DOUG MELVIN: Well, you know, I think that getting to post-season is very difficult, and
teams that get to post-season year after year have accomplished a lot because this sport
-- it's the most difficult to get to post-season of all the major sports. All the other
teams you can get into post-season with a below .500 record in some cases. In baseball you
can win 95 ball games and not get to post-season. People don't quite understand how
difficult it is to go 162 games and be consistent and get to post-season. You have to
appreciate that, so you have to appreciate what the Indians have done, what the Braves
have done, and, you know, the Blue Jays have won a couple World Series' I believe in the
'90s. The Yankees, I don't know the exact numbers, too, they won twice too. First off,
it's very difficult to get to post-season, and I hope that the Rangers have the reputation
of getting to post-season, but now we have to build a reputation of winning in
post-season. That's our next step. So, you know, those teams that I mentioned, the
Yankees, the Indians, the Braves, all need to be recognized. And there's other clubs, too,
the Houston Astros don't really get the credit they deserve. Maybe down there in Texas,
we're a little further away from all the media -- the national media, but the Astros are a
team that, they've done a great job in the '90s and have a great team, great franchise.
And they should be recognized, too.

Q. Just to follow up. Three World Series, if a team were to win that, or eight times in
the post-season, like the Braves have been?

DOUG MELVIN: That's a tough question. I've asked that question myself. Would you want
to win one World Series and not be in post-season for the next 10 or 15 years. I think
you'd ask people and they'd have different answers for that. The Marlins did it. San Diego
got to the World Series last year and they had a more difficult time this year. My feeling
is you have to build -- get into post-season and eventually it will happen. Sort of use
that Denver Broncos theory. The Broncos did it enough times, it eventually happened. You
have to focus on that, if you get there enough times, it will happen.

Q. Okay, we're now in the middle of Game 2, Bernie Williams strolls to the plate with
two guys on, fifth or sixth inning. . .

DOUG MELVIN: Well, is he batting left-handed or right-handed? (Laughter.)

Q. Let's make him lefty, why not?

DOUG MELVIN: Left-handed, Johnny Oates, he'll have a tough call there. Bernie's a great
ball player. I was scouting director here in '85 when Bernie was signed. We snuck him over
here from Puerto Rico and put him in a baseball camp up in Connecticut to get him signed.
It was sort of a highlight of my career as a scouting director to sign a player of Bernie
Williams' stature. I remember at the time we gave him a signing bonus of $15,000. Now he's
making a few dollars more than that, and well-deserved. But as Rich said, he's a complete
player. You know, the thing that I admire about Bernie is his patience at the plate. The
pitches that Aaron Sele threw last night with two strikes on him, for me, 95 percent of
the hitters probably swing at those pitches. He has great patience at the plate. Whether
it's his reputation that he's got great patience or not, he's got a .400 on-base
percentage every year. He may not hit 40 homers, knock in 150 runs, but the guy gets on
base. When he gets on base, he can run, he takes extra bases. He's a very talented player.
And I think for us to win ball games, we need to face Bernie Williams without runners on
base, like the situation you brought up. And that's important. If you look last night, I
believe he came up, his first at bat, one man on; second at-bat, two men on. I think five
men were on base when he came on and he capitalized on that. Then he made a very nice
catch to prevent us. He took away two runs. That was a big situation. That ball gets by
him, two runs probably score and we're sitting with a man on second base with one out. So
really, Bernie Williams was the key to the game. Everybody can see that. I think the best
thing is to face -- the number of times you're going to face those kind of hitters without
anybody on base is the whole key.

Q. In light of what happened last night with Don Zimmer, is there anything baseball
should do to protect the people in the dugout? Along those same lines, what's the scariest
experience you've faced like that?

DOUG MELVIN: I get nervous all the time when you're sitting down there. If I sit down
there, I've had my family with me when I sit in the club box next to the dugout. I keep
telling them, watch the ball game. You have to watch the ball game. But I don't know what
you could do to protect. I know some dugouts maybe have had the screens up in front, but
it's difficult to see the game from the dugout when they had those screens. But today's
ballparks, and this is obviously an older ballpark, but the modern-day parks and all the
new parks, the fans have requested being closer to the field and closer to the action and
that. So maybe that's something that has to -- you have to rethink. But I'm surprised that
more people don't get hurt in the stands the way the ball comes off the bat. And there's
even more bats going in the stands than ever before. Seems to be more broken bats, I think
there's a story, Steve Yeager got hurt one year, I remember Butch Wynegar got hurt in the
on-deck circle one time. Through the history of baseball, there's been a lot of people,
players hurt and that. But having the dugouts close to the field, I know in Vero Beach in
spring training, their dugouts are right there on the field, too. Very close. It's
dangerous. I'm not sure exactly what you could do except to rethink how close the stands
are on the field, whether you want it that way or want more foul territory. If I'm a
pitcher, I want more foul territory, right?

Q. You mentioned it was a highlight for you to -- in your role in bringing Bernie to
the Yankees. Do you dwell on the irony of that situation now that he's hurt you so bad in
'96 and now again last night?

DOUG MELVIN: Yeah, you think about it quite a bit. You know, in our last year, ran
through my mind to try to sign him in Texas as a free agent and that. We were pursuing the
number-one starting pitcher that everybody wants us to get and that. But I was in San
Alberta (phonetic) last year on a week's vacation and I got a call from Bernie Williams. I
returned the call and Bernie was on the phone. He said he just signed with the Yankees, I
didn't know what he was calling about, whether to express interest or not. He had called
and that and he had signed with the Yankees. I said well, that's good Bernie, that's
probably the best place for you, to stay there and have a great career and fall under the
great tradition of Yankee centerfielders and that. It went through my mind last year to
heavily get involved with him. But at the time, we were a pretty good offensive club and
our needs have been for pitching. I was fortunate enough to get a guy like Rafael Palmeiro
and that. But it goes through my mind about Bernie. He's a great individual and, you know,
he'd be nice to have in our ballclub but it's not going to happen.

Q. We were talking about the wild card before. If the rule had been the way you think
it should be, you wouldn't be facing the Yankees the first round, you'd be playing
Cleveland.

DOUG MELVIN: You're going to have to beat the Yankees anyway. I think that's sort of
the attitude of most teams. I was talking to John Heart yesterday, we were talking about
who we would have rather faced. He said the same thing, when you get down to it, you
either face Pedro Martinez or you face the Yankees or you face that Cleveland line-up. All
four ballclubs are very good ballclubs. I know some of the teams have a fear of facing our
line-up, too. And, you know, going up against our bullpen and our starting pitching has
improved dramatically -- I think it's better than what people give it credit for. So you
can't take time to dwell on that. Your focus has to be on the immediate, and that's
playing the Yankees and, you know, getting over this hump of not beating them in
post-season. I know we went through a couple years not beating the Seattle Mariners. I
think we put that behind us and played better against the Mariners. We went through not
playing well in the Texas heat. We were going to blow the chance to be in post-season, so
this is just another hurdle. It's a big hurdle, the Yankees are, but I think we can
overcome it.

Q. What are your thoughts on Helling's season? Are you concerned that there was a
little bit of a dropoff there?

DOUG MELVIN: No, Rick's had a good year for us. I think he's pitched as well as last
year. Didn't win as many games. I got to ride back in the limousine with him here, too,
back to the hotel. (Laughing). No, Rick had a great year for us. He is still recognized,
him and Aaron Sele, when I talk about their pitching, they don't get credit for what
they've done. If you look at the two of them and the number of games they've won for us
the last two years, there's not a whole lot of teams that can throw two pitchers that have
won the number of games they've won for us. We feel very confident when Aaron Sele and
Rick Helling go out. We feel they give us a chance to win the ball game. Rick talked about
his curve maybe not being as consistent as in the past, but on any given day, you know, he
can go out there and pitch a quality game for us. Like I said, I think earlier on in the
year, his earned run average was better and he had pitched better for us. He talks about
his mechanics being consistent, and Rick knows what he has to do, but we're here in
post-season again. We won 95 games, the best in franchise history, and Rick Helling, Aaron
Sele, and the ballclub's all deserving of that, too.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT