PURE SILK-BAHAMAS LPGA CLASSIC
May 26, 2013
Ilhee Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Ilhee Lee, let's start with your thoughts on the day to day.   How special is this for you? 
ILHEE LEE:   This is the best day in my life.   I'm so happy right now.

Q.   You started playing golf at the age of 10, right?
ILHEE LEE:   Yes.

Q.   I asked you out there and I'll ask it again, did you ever think that a day like this would come?   Is it something that you felt confident in that you could be one of the great professional golfers? 
ILHEE LEE:   Yeah, I always believed in myself since I started golf, so today.

Q.   Let's talk about your round today.   Three straight birdies to start your round; how important was that for you? 
ILHEE LEE:   In the morning, my goal was just pars.   I made long putts first hole, the second hole, third hole, birdies and then I was thinking maybe it's close.   So I felt comfortable with the wind today.   I think the wind helped me today.

Q.   How long would you say the putt was on the first hole? 
ILHEE LEE:   The first hole was ten yards, 30 feet off the green.

Q.   You're off the green.   And then the second hole, how far? 
ILHEE LEE:   Second hole?   Oh, that was a chip shot.

Q.   A chip?
ILHEE LEE:   Uh‑huh.

Q.   How far? 
ILHEE LEE:   20 yards, more than that.   It was blowing the wind from into, so I hit short of the green and I chipped in.

Q.   Then how about the par‑5, the 7th? 
ILHEE LEE:   The 7th hole, my tee shot went to the right, which is like no grass there.   I chipped out with a 6‑iron, and then another 150 yards left into the wind I hit a 5‑iron like 10 feet and made it.

Q.   That was a fairway on 18 from the rough? 
ILHEE LEE:   That was a 4‑iron, like a hybrid, a 4‑hybrid.

Q.   And were you nervous on the putt on number 8 for par, because you had a 1‑shot lead? 
ILHEE LEE:   I did.   I did get nervous, but I knew I can putt.   I can three‑putt, so I hit the three‑putt, so I just putted.

Q.   You understood how important it was on number 8 when you were short and then hit it this far, and how important was it to make that putt? 
ILHEE LEE:   Yeah, uh‑huh, that was an important putt this week.   The most important putt this week, I think.

Q.   We talked about this out there.   If you want to show everybody your glasses.   I said you like photography and I said go ahead and make a pose.   Just as you were making a pose, for those of you who weren't out there, cans of shaving cream all over you.   Show them your glasses on the back of your head.   They've already wiped her down out there.   She was completely drenched in shaving cream.   What is it about golf that seems to make you so happy?   You had such a big smile on your face out there on the green. 
ILHEE LEE:   This week I was very happy because I can play golf.   I can swim.   I can play.   I can gamble (laughing).   Then I felt this is the best job in the world.   I love golf.   I love to play.   I love it.

Q.   Where did you swim? 
ILHEE LEE:   Right by the hotel.

Q.   At the beach? 
ILHEE LEE:   In the beach.

Q.   In the ocean, right? 
ILHEE LEE:   Uh‑huh.

Q.   Tell the story, because I asked this earlier, we were talking about the bracelets and the slides at Atlantis.   How many have you gone down, and I asked if you went down the Leap of Faith.   Tell them what you've been doing this week? 
ILHEE LEE:   I went to the pool.   I was there for five hours, I think, in one day.   I had super fun.   Then the shark tank slide was the best.

Q.   You like sharks? 
ILHEE LEE:   Yeah.

Q.   That's when you're not swimming with them. 
ILHEE LEE:   No.

Q.   But you actually tweaked your neck a little bit while you were playing around in the pool, right? 
ILHEE LEE:   Uh‑huh.

Q.   And no affect to your golf game whatsoever?
ILHEE LEE:   No, no, not at all.

Q.   How much did you gamble? 
ILHEE LEE:   I did a hundred dollars the first day, second day a hundred dollars.   I lost 45 bucks.   That's it.   Not bad, huh?   I went there four times this week, and I lost 45. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT