CVS/PHARMACY LPGA CHALLENGE
October 16, 2010
Ilhee Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Ilhee, welcome. Great round today. Just tell us a little bit about it.   
 ILHEE LEE (through interpreter): It was pretty good overall, all day. It was pretty good over all day.   
 THE MODERATOR: Questions?   
  
  Q. You said that this course kind of resembles courses in Korea. Could you -- you said it's hilly. Are there any other things that were similar, or have you played anything like that on Tour this year?   
 ILHEE LEE (through interpreter): Yeah, we played another course in Mexico that was quite similar to what I've been playing in Korea. The course that had Chez Maria's championship, but you know, when you come to Blackhawk, just the feel of it is much closer to what I'm used to back home. And the course itself, the one is the Chez Maria was pretty close to the ones I play in Korea, but just the feel, it feels a lot more like home.   
  
  Q. Could I ask you about the eagle on 11? Could you explain what you did there on that hole?  
 ILHEE LEE (through interpreter): The tee shot and the second shot, you know, believe it or not, happened exactly the way I envisioned it in my head.   
 And then you know, when I hit the second shot, I just wanted to get it close, and it was a downhill putt. So I told myself to just get it close to the hole, and it just rolled in.   
  
  Q. You hadn't shot better than 70 all year on Tour this year. You missed seven cuts earlier in the year. Now you've broken 70, three straight rounds in the 60s. Is it just something as simple as this course reminds you of Korea, or is there something that's changed in your game?  
 ILHEE LEE (through interpreter): I made the first cut on the Tour this year in the first event, but after that I think I missed almost every cut until the stretch of four tournaments, including this one.   
 I told myself, I started to wonder, can I really make it out here, can I really survive on this Tour with so much traveling, and you know, being away from home was very difficult. But I challenged myself three tournaments ago, let's give it all I got and see what I can do and let's change my mindset and see what I can do.   
 So this is my fourth event and fourth event in which I have made a cut. So I told myself, this is the last time. I mean I'm going to give it all and challenge myself in how far I can go, and I think that mindset has certainly changed certain aspects of my game.  
  
  Q. Now do you feel like you can compete on this Tour on a regular basis?  
 ILHEE LEE (through interpreter): To answer your question, yes. I think what I have today is enough to compete against the best in the world, and I feel very good, and yeah, I think I can do it.  
  
  Q. What do you feel are the strengths of your game? Obviously you can get to the par-5s in two, so you have some distance, but what do you feel are the other strengths of your game on the course that help you compete out here?  
 ILHEE LEE (through interpreter): I'm a golfer. I think I'm a golfer, and I never really try to find what my strengths are or my weaknesses are in that matter. I just go out there and play.   
 I know a lot of players have identified their strengths and weaknesses. I guess for that I'm a little different, but I never look for my strengths, and I also never look for my weaknesses. I know what I can do and I go out and perform and that's what I do.  
 Well, some people may point out certain parts of my game are my strengths, but I never think of it that way.  
  
  Q. What do you expect out of tomorrow heading into the final group? Four people tied right there. How do you expect tomorrow to go?   
 ILHEE LEE (through interpreter): Well, you know, like you, I'm certainly excited to see what I can do tomorrow. It's very exciting.   
 These three days here in Danville I've had so much fun. I've done whatever I wanted to do and just went out and played golf, and I'm starting to think, wow, this is what it feels like to be a professional golfer and go out and perform. So I mean I'm excited, and tomorrow I'm going to go out there and give it all I got.   
 But the most important thing is having fun, and I'm going to do whatever I feel like doing. I'm going to have fun out there.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT