LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 17, 2014
Ilhee Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Like to welcome Ilhee Lee to the interview room, just two shots off the lead, even par today.   Give us a little recap of your round.   How did you feel overall and your position going into this weekend.
ILHEE LEE:   So early this year, I was kind of struggling but then I recovered my pace in competition.   I've been doing okay in the Asian swing, and I'm not that satisfied with the score today.   But I'm satisfied I guess with the even par.   I think my putting has become a little stronger and it's helped me lower my score. 
THE MODERATOR:   You've had some pretty good finishes the past couple events.   What's been working better for you this past couple weeks rather than earlier this season? 
ILHEE LEE:   I think I've tried a lot to change my mind‑set.   Going into the Asian swing, there are no cutoffs, so I'm focused on staying true to my game and I think that mind‑set has helped me to get lower scores.
THE MODERATOR:   How many friends and family? 
ILHEE LEE:   A lot. 
THE MODERATOR:   How many, do you think? 
ILHEE LEE:   More than 30 tickets from the LPGA, thank you.   (Laughing).

Q.   So it was less windy today but the scores were less than yesterday.   Why do you think that is? 
ILHEE LEE:   Actually, I expected lower scores but overall, the players, they were not able to lower the scores.   I think it's because for where the hole is, it can make it very difficult, and so I think a lot of the players had difficulty reading the holes.   And depending on the location of the pin, the greens can be very difficult to read. 

Q.   So you got your first win under very windy conditions and it seems that golf and wind are not a good combination for low scores.   I'm curious to know if you have a strategy or any tips on how to overcome windy situations? 
ILHEE LEE:   I actually live in Dallas and it's always windy.   So it's actually really rare to play golf on a windless day. 
So I practice a lot in these conditions and this has helped me to overcome my fear of the wind.   What I've learned in playing the wind is that if you try to overcome the wind itself, it will play against you.   So you need to read the wind and you need to take advantage of the wind for your game.
So I think compared to other players, I am more at ease playing in windy conditions and I'm a little bit more comfortable and I actually enjoy trying to play the wind in windy conditions. 

Q.   You mentioned Dallas.   Curious to know if you've seen Anthony Kim?
ILHEE LEE:   Actually I went to the championship four years ago to see him and it seemed like he really enjoyed the game and he didn't seem stressed out at all.   This was not long after I arrived in the U.S. and I thought that was something I could learn from, but after that since then, I haven't seen them. 
THE MODERATOR:   It's a lot of golf in the weekend but could you imagine, would it be a dream come true to win here in Korea? 
ILHEE LEE:   I was actually on the Korean tour for 2 1/2, three years, before I went to the U.S. and I had no wins.   So I really want to win in Korea, and if I win an LPGA tournament in Korea, that would really be a dream come true.
However, like you mentioned, there are still two rounds left.   So I'm trying not to focus too much on winning and trying more on having a more comfortable game. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT