PURE SILK-BAHAMAS LPGA CLASSIC
January 21, 2014
Ilhee Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   We are here at the 2014 Pure Silk Bahamas LPGA Classic with the defending champion Ilhee Lee.   Congratulations on the victory last year.   What has been different for you since winning here last year?
ILHEE LEE:   It has been a great year since my win last year.   I don't think I changed at all.   I feel because I'm an LPGA winner I'm more recognizable.

Q.   It was quite a memorable event last year with all of the rain and the 12‑hole format that went on, but what memories stick out to you from that victory?
ILHEE LEE:   First of all, the tournament staff and the grounds crew did a great job setting up the course for play.   If it wasn't for them I would not have an opportunity to win this tournament here. 

Q.   They did do a great job setting that up.   How different is it now since I'm sure you got to go out and play today?   How different is it to play all 18 holes when your victory came when it was just 12 holes?
ILHEE LEE:   I think everybody is thinking the same thing.   It feels like the first event because it's the first time we played the whole golf course.   It doesn't really matter to me because I always try one shot at a time, one hole at a time.   So whether it's 12 holes or 18 holes, it doesn't matter to me because I try to focus one shot at a time. 

Q.   Talking with a lot of the players, they said the course looks in great shape.   How did you find the golf course out there today? 
ILHEE LEE:   It's beautiful here.   It was beautiful last year, too.   The golf course shape is perfect.   It's ready for play. 

Q.   This is the first event of the 2014 season.   We're getting ready to get back into competition.   How was your off‑season?   How did you spend your time?   I guess it was a shorter off‑season than normal, just a couple months.   How did you spend your time off?
ILHEE LEE:   I spent three weeks in Korea for fun, and then came back to Dallas for four weeks or three weeks.   I worked on my swing a little bit, and I worked out a little bit.   Much better now.   Feel better than last year. 

Q.   Being down in Dallas, I know it's been cold throughout the United States.   Did you get a lot of the cold weather down there?
ILHEE LEE:   Uh‑huh, it was very, very cold.   I always think move to different place. 

Q.   It's a little tough when you have to go out there and play in those conditions. 
ILHEE LEE:   Uh‑huh, it was very, very cold, yeah. 

Q.   One other exciting thing for the 2014 season, we just announced the Race to the CME Globe, which is our new season‑long points competition on the LPGA Tour where the player who earns the most points over the season will win a million dollars.   How does that kind of change the season?   Does it make things more exciting out here on the LPGA Tour?
ILHEE LEE:   Oh, yeah.   I think it's great.   It will make more excitement for the fans, for the players and for the sponsors, too.   Yeah, it's just like a PGA TOUR FedExCup.   It's going to be really good.   I like it. 

Q.   Does it also change as a player how many events when you look at a schedule, how many events you might play and kind of making sure that you put yourself in position to play at the CME Group Tour Championship at the end of the year?
ILHEE LEE:   Yes.   I'm going to play as much as I can play this year, not like last year.   So yeah. 

Q.   And now thinking about it, when you tee off on Thursday, they're going to announce you as the defending champion.   How nice will that sound, and is it going to be a little different teeing off and hearing that by your name?
ILHEE LEE:   I don't know.   I'll be very excited to play.   It's very special to me, yeah, my first win in Bahamas.   I think I'm so fortunate to win my first win here in Bahamas.

Q.   You couldn't ask for a more beautiful place, and what a great win for your first victory on the LPGA Tour.   Thank you for joining us, and best of luck this week. 
ILHEE LEE:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT