SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 11, 2013
Ilhee Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What was so good about your game? 
ILHEE LEE:   I hit it good today and I putted good.   Everything was okay today.

Q.   Are you happy being in the lead?   Do you like that position? 
ILHEE LEE:   Of course I like it.   It's fun being here.   Yeah, it will be fine.

Q.   Are you feeling very good going into the weekend? 
ILHEE LEE:   Of course, yeah, very good.

Q.   How do you find the course?   Do you find it very long?   Are the greens very difficult? 
ILHEE LEE:   Yeah, the grain is very difficult here on the green, so reading the greens is very difficult.

Q.   And you escaped the bad weather. 
ILHEE LEE:   It was okay.   Yeah, it was good to me, yeah.

Q.   You felt good coming into today, but did you think you would be able to almost match what you did yesterday?   I know you said your goal was 3‑under every day and you've completely blown those out of the water both days.   You've surpassed your expectations? 
ILHEE LEE:   I did.   I tried to do exactly the same thing as yesterday.   So my goal was 3‑under par today.   Then, yeah, I putted good and made more, so it was fun.

Q.   You think putting is still the key to how you played? 
ILHEE LEE:   Yeah, putting was good, and then the iron shots were important here too.

Q.   And no bogeys again? 
ILHEE LEE:   No.   I had one bogey on 16, yeah.

Q.   What happened there? 
ILHEE LEE:   I pulled driver, so I chipped out.   It was okay, but I pushed the third shot. 

Q.   Okay.   What's been the key to minimizing mistakes on this course?   A lot of players have been going bogey free, but it's not an easy course by any means.   What is the key to not making mistakes here on this course? 
ILHEE LEE:   I did mistakes a lot, actually.   I missed shots a little bit, but the putt was good, so I saved a lot.

Q.   So your putter has been saving you in other areas? 
ILHEE LEE:   Uh‑huh.

Q.   Now pressure going into the last two days.   You still have the one‑shot lead, which is good.   Did you think shooting 6‑under would still only give you a one‑shot lead?   I think you had about a four‑shot lead today, but Lexi came back a little bit?
ILHEE LEE:   Same thing.   Same thing I will try to be 3‑under par every day and we'll see. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT