SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 29, 2005
Bob Ford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  I seen that you were leading in the fewest putts during the week.  With all the weather and everything.  How did it work out for you out there?  How did you read the greens and everything?  Since everything was so wet and everything?

MORRIS HATALSKY:  Well, you adapt to the conditions and you know, it was wet earlier in the week.  So they were basically consistent from that advantage point.  The speed, they still had good speed, despite all the rain.  They're poa annua greens and so there's subtle breaks in there that you got to look close.
Q.  What did you feel about your round today?

MORRIS HATALSKY:  I felt very good about it.  I made some mistakes out there, but you pay the penalty when you're not driving the ball in the fairway.  But I made some nice putts out there and had some good up and downs.


BOB FORD
Q.  I was wondering how it felt to be the club pro with the lowest score in the tournament?
BOB FORD:  I don't think I am, am I?
Q.  Last time I checked, you were.
BOB FORD:  Close.  Well, some consolation.  It's not    you know, it's not what we play for.  But it's okay.
Q.  How do you feel that the tournament was as a whole, being that you were a local pro?
BOB FORD:  To qualify in October to play here and play in your hometown was a big thrill.  It was a lot of pressure just to do that.  And then to be here and to get to play the weekend was a big thrill as well.

So I guess I'm thrilled.  Because I'm a golfer, that means that I'm disappointed.
Q.  You said you wanted to make it through to Sunday to get out of work.  Are you satisfied?
BOB FORD:  Yeah, I got the weekend off, yeah.  I'll go back to work tomorrow.  The weekend is not over, Memorial Day weekend.  But I played beautifully.  My driving stats and my greens in regulation stats were great.  Obviously my putting stats were a    left a little to be desired.  So that's what I have to work on.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT