SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 28, 2005
Bob Ford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  How was the day today?
BOB FORD:  Well, 3, 74s in a row, this is getting to be an old story.  It was tough because we had to stop because of the rain.  Had to stop and go back out.  I guess I was okay until maybe 10 and 11.  A couple bogeys there.  But I brought it back and then I missed a short one at 17 and couldn't birdie 18 to shoot a good score.

So I guess I'm a two handicap out here.
Q.  How satisfied are you with a 74 on a day like this in which the conditions are pretty rough?
BOB FORD:  Well, I don't know that they're any rougher than the first two days.  I'm not happy with my score.  I could shoot a lot worse, but we all want to shoot better.  I'm definitely not happy.
Q.  How much does the delay, an hour and a half delay today affect your game?
BOB FORD:  Sometimes it does, sometimes it doesn't.  I had a real hard chip out there on number 4 when we were delayed and I went back out and hit it about a foot.  So I got a little fortunate and got on a little roll there.  So I played fine when we came back.  It didn't affect me adversely for sure.
Q.  Feels sort of like the local rooting section at this stage?  Feel any of that roll, I guess?
BOB FORD:  I wish some of my pals were still here.  I wish Arnold was still here playing.  But somebody has got to be playing, I'm glad it's me, and I'm just trying to do the best I can.  I got a lot of family, friends, members from Oakmont here.  You try to play good when you're home.  And hopefully I'll play better tomorrow.  Hope springs eternal, right?
Q.  With the rain, how many clubs difference, if any, were the approach shots that you normally hit?  Say if you normally hit a 7 would you have to hit a 5?
BOB FORD:  One club, I think.  I think it was one club.  It played real long for me.  I'm a short hitter.  But it played long for me.  I hit a lot of longer clubs in today than I have in the past.
Q.  With the seasonal changes you got to make in your jobs, do you get to play a lot?
BOB FORD:  I do.  I play a lot down all winter long in Florida.  So I come home in the spring and I play a lot of golf.  So I'm pretty ready to play.
Q.  About how long was that putt for birdie on 18?
BOB FORD:  It was probably 12 feet.  Looked like 42.
Q.  You made a nice approach shot there.
BOB FORD:  Well, really, I pulled it.  I got a wonderful break.  I aimed it at the microphone in the back of the green and was trying to bring it back down to it.  I wasn't going as near to that water as bad as I was choking.  I got fortunate, but just couldn't shake it in.
Q.  What do you expect to shoot tomorrow?
BOB FORD:  Well, 66 would be a nice number.  Get rid of all those over par strokes.  288 would be a nice score.  But anything under par would be great.
Q.  You said you missed a short putt on 17?
BOB FORD:  Yeah, a 3 putt.
Q.  For birdie?
BOB FORD:  No, for par.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT