ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE BASEBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 21, 2019
Mike Martin
Drew Parrish
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Wake Forest - 7, Florida State - 4   
THE MODERATOR: We'll get started with the press conference with Florida State.  We have with us from Florida State head Coach Mike Martin and pitcher Drew Parrish.  If you could give us an opening statement and then we'll open it up for questions.   
COACH MARTIN: I thought Peluse was very, very impressive.  I was impressed with him the last time we faced him in Tallahassee, but I think tonight he pitched with a lot of drive, a lot of incentive.  And we didn't get the big hit when we had a couple of opportunities.  But that's just the way the game is.   
I thought the young man to my right pitched extremely well.  It's kind of hard to go out there and battle it like crazy.  But, yet, no runs were scored while he was -- I think we got four in the fourth.  So he was still in there.  But it's one of those games in which we were whipped.  They got it done.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions?   
 Q.  Drew, for you, what was the difference, first of all, from last week?  When you kind of look at the season as a whole to this point, seems like there's been ups and downs for you personally and for the team.  How has that experience -- what's it been like?  
DREW PARRISH: Like you said, it's ups and downs.  You take the good with the good and forget about the bad.  It's just been a big bonding experience, you could say, for the team, learning, tough lessons have been taught to us, some of the younger kids on the team.  And it's a long season.  It's a long game in itself.  And there's a lot of opportunities to make up from the bad.  So you've got to keep going through them.   
 Q.  Coach, the seventh inning had to be frustrating.  Struggling to throw strikes and making all those pitching changes.  What do you say after an inning like that?  And how do you move forward now knowing that you can't win the tournament but you still have a game to play?  
COACH MARTIN: I set there when all that was going on, and there was no "woe is me."  It was, "I don't think this has ever happened to me."  We could not throw the ball over the plate.  And I honestly don't know in my 40 years when it has been to this extent.   
But, again, it's called baseball.  Anything can happen.  And that was one of those situations that we have to be tough enough to throw it away and be ready to go when we're called on at a later time.   
 Q.  Mike, do you think you need to win another to stay in the NCAAs or do you feel like your body of work already should have you in?  
COACH MARTIN: Well, having had the honor of serving on the committee years ago, possibly when you were in grade school, (laughter) but it was just one of those things that you have to allow the committee to look at everything, which they will.  If I was going to be a lobbyist -- and Tallahassee is the capital, and we do have some lobbyists in our city -- I would have to say that a winning record of six over .500 -- four over .500 in our league is certainly impressive.  And we played a very demanding schedule, but I think you just have to say that, hey, we gotta bow our necks -- we're playing Friday night -- we've got to bow our necks and keep battling, because at this point I just don't think it's something that should come out of my mouth of what I feel.  I think what needs to come out of my mouth is we gotta play better.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT