PAGENET CHAMPIONSHIP
November 11, 1999
Nancy Scranton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Can you go over your card?

NANCY SCRANTON: Well, I had three birdies today and no bogeys. I birdied No. 6, I think
the par 5 -- or 5, I think. Parred the first four holes. No. 5, I hit L-wedge about five
feet and made that. Then I parred everything until No. 13. I had hit a lot of good shots,
and No. 13, I made about a 20-footer; I hit 7-iron in. And then No. 17, I hit 8-iron to
about eight feet and made that. 

Q. Can you talk a little bit about how the course was playing?

NANCY SCRANTON: It sets up well for me because I hit left-right from the tee. There are
only a couple of holes that you need to turn it over. It's a little tight, but I feel
really good with my driver out here because I hit it left-to-right off the tee, which is
my normal shot. Good golf course. You have to be careful. There's some good pins out there
today, too. Wondering if it was Sunday or Thursday. We weren't sure. It was playing well.
The greens are good, but you have to be careful which side of the pin you hit it on. 

Q. Just being here is a culmination of a great comeback, wouldn't you say?

NANCY SCRANTON: Yes, it is, thanks. It was basically my goal this year. My goal was to
win a tournament and to play in this tournament, and got close a few times. I gave myself
some chances this year, and sometimes, it's not always under your control, and under your
control to win. But my goal was to get in here this year. It's been really good. I feel
like I am back kind of where I left off when I started -- when I was starting to be hurt
with my shoulder and actually feeling like a better player. But at least I'm getting back
into where I was before, and it's a lot tougher now than it was seven or eight years ago.
But it is very satisfying, and it was a goal of mine and it feels good to have achieved
it. 

Q. What's tougher now?

NANCY SCRANTON: So many more better players, so many good players. Scores are lower.
More people are shooting low scores, more low scores. The winning scores, I don't know how
much they are different. I know they are lower, but I think more people shoot low instead
of just going lower. There's just more people that are there that can -- that are better
players. 

Q. Has that changed your mind frame at all?

NANCY SCRANTON: Yeah, working with my teacher, Hank Johnson, we -- you know, we didn't
look back. We basically took -- from after I had my shoulder surgery and rebuilt my golf
swing -- or built a new one, I should say. We didn't rebuild what I had. Because if I
would have been doing that again, I would probably have hurt my shoulder again and we'd go
through all that. So we just kind of started from scratch and I had really -- I have good
direction from him. 

Q. Which shoulder was it?

NANCY SCRANTON: Left.

Q. And did you hurt it playing?

NANCY SCRANTON: Over youth, my golf swing kind of -- you know, which came first, the
swing was overusing, and my shoulder was loose; so it was slipping out of socket at the
top of my backswing. I was born with not much support there, and I also was a swimmer when
I was younger. So I think a culmination of everything, overuse. 

Q. Were you ever at a stage in your career where you thought you would never play again
because of it?

NANCY SCRANTON: Possibly or never play well again. A couple months after surgery it was
hard to imagine swinging a golf club again when I wouldn't even get my should up -- my arm
up past my shoulder. Three months, I could chip, barely. I couldn't turn my over the last
three months after surgery. It was scary. It was really scary. 

Q. When was that?

NANCY SCRANTON: April of 1996.

Q. You came close a couple times this year. Was that frustrating or encouraging?

NANCY SCRANTON: A couples times it was frustrating, but overall, I look back; it was
really encouraging. I was in contention quite a few times, and did a lot of things I
needed to do, which was good. And the confidence came back quicker maybe than I thought it
would because I played a couple years where it was going everywhere and it was not pretty.
So you know, once did I start swinging at it a lot better and playing better, it felt
comfortable and it was a lot of fun. I certainly appreciate it and don't take it for
granted.

Q. Is there anything -- I remember Rochester, Dayton, is there anything that --?

NANCY SCRANTON: Obviously, I played really well. I should have won the tournament in
St. Louis. It's where I should have won this year. I had a little trouble in the bunker;
didn't have an L-wedge, and the bunker was real hard, and I had been having trouble with
the bunkers. And I had a double and a triple and lost by a few shots. Kind of took the
wind out of my sails. But I played so well that weekend. It's as close to him as I'm ever
going to get. I live about an hour out of St. Louis. I have a lot friends and family, and
ended up finishing fifth or sixth or something. It was discouraging but it was fun because
I was there and I know I should have won it -- not easily; it's never easy to win. But had
I just gotten a couple bounces, it maybe would have turned out differently. It's
disappointing, but it still was a lot of fun. I felt like I belonged when I was there. I
was playing well enough. It's not like, "Gosh I'm making putts from everywhere to be
in this position."

Q. Coming from the low of being to where your career was in doubt, to now being one of
the 30 best players in the world, do you sometimes have to pinch yourself to see how far
you've come and what you've accomplished?

NANCY SCRANTON: I have to be careful sometimes when I'm going through a few weeks where
I'm not playing that well, and I think, "Well, look where you were." I step back
and look at it a little bit. When you do start playing well, your expectations increase
with your ability. So yeah, it is nice to look back and think -- my teacher, Hank, kept
telling me, "You can do it, just be patient." That's hard. When he said building
this golf swing -- he didn't really tell me at first because he knew I wouldn't like it,
but he said it would probably take about 18 months before I felt good. And that's about
what it did. It was about the middle of 1998 when I felt like I was started to go play
well again or swing well.

Q. Without being too technical, can you tell us what the difference is in your swing
now compared to before?

NANCY SCRANTON: If you would look at me, my hands would be all the way back behind my
head, because I could. I kept trying to get my arms up when I was hurt, but they just kept
going this way, and part of it was because I didn't have this ability in the shoulder. It
would just slip; so I didn't have the strength there, so I couldn't stop it. So that
became my golf swing over time because I played hurt for two years not knowing what was
wrong. My hands were on the left side of my head and my golf swing. If I would have
started swinging like that again after surgery, it would have started all over again. So
we moved my hands -- obviously, we want my hands to the right side of -- side of my head.
They have moved a lot.

Q. A lot shorter swing?

NANCY SCRANTON: Shorter, much less of a shoulder rotation. Probably everything else was
rotating fine, hips, but my shoulders were way overrotating. 

Q. Where is Hank out of ?

NANCY SCRANTON: Birmingham. 

Q. Did you leave any out there today?

NANCY SCRANTON: You know, I hit it pretty close on -- I hit a lot of really good shots
that ended up maybe 15 feet because I couldn't tell the -- what the bounce is going to do,
if it was going to release or not. I hit a good shot on 15 about eight feet and hit a
really good putt; didn't go in. I only missed -- I think I only missed three greens, and
one was from the bunker. I got up-and-down, and the other two were just off the fringe. It
was pretty easy, but I didn't have to work real hard today. I had quite a few chances, but
it's not like I hit it inside eight feet all day.

Q. Any good saves?

NANCY SCRANTON: No. Made a 6-footer for par for my bunker shot. That's it. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT