NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC
September 27, 2007
Nancy Scranton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Nancy, thanks for joining us today.  You turned in a great round.  You're 4-under and currently the leader in the clubhouse.  You want to talk about your round out there.   
 NANCY SCRANTON:  Yeah.  I started out I was hitting it really well.  Do you want me to go hole by hole?   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Yeah.   
 NANCY SCRANTON:  Overall it was good.  I putted well.  I rolled it well.  Had quite a few birdie chances.  Unfortunately didn't finish very well.  Hit a really good drive on 18 and (indiscernible.)  I don't know the course that well and tried to hit (indiscernible) into 18 instead of really concentrating on the greens.   
 The shot I was trying to hit into 18 should have been a little left and it went right.  It was really disappointing.  Pretty good shot on 15, and then 17 played really well today.   
 Made a good save there.  (Indiscernible.)   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Go over the birdies with the first birdie of the day on your third hole.   
 NANCY SCRANTON:  I have to look at my scorecard.  No. 3, I hit pretty good drive and I think I had 170 and hit my 4 rescue to about four feet and made it.   
 Then No.4 I hit a good drive and had 139, I believe, and hit an 8-iron to about 15 feet and made that.   
 No. 6 I hit -- had 151 yards to the pin.  I hit 6-iron to about three feet, three, four feet.  Made that.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Eagle on No. 8.   
 NANCY SCRANTON:  No that was No. 6 birdie.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  And then No. 8.   
 NANCY SCRANTON:  Yeah, I'm sorry.  No. 8 hit a good drive and had 190 to the pin.  Hit 5-wood to about 12 feet and made it.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Front 9 with a birdie.   
 NANCY SCRANTON:  Yeah, I did.  I hit driver and then I had 147 yards uphill into the wind.  I hit 6-iron to about 18 feet and made that.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Okay.  And then you had a birdie on your second hole in the back 9, 11.   
 NANCY SCRANTON:  Yeah, I didn't hit a very good drive but had 175 to the pin and hit my 4 rescue up to about eight feet and made it.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  The first bogey of the day on 12.  What happened there?   
 NANCY SCRANTON:  12 is a tough driving hole visually for me.  You really need a draw and it's not my favorite shot.  I hit 3-wood to try and keep it in the fairway and left it out a little to the right.  So it ended up in the rough.   
 Had a bad lie and hit it into the bunker.  I had a long bunker shot and kind of hit it thin.  I hit so much ball and I hit it over the green and had a really tough chip and I chipped it to about 12 feet and made it.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  What did you hit out of the bunker?   
 NANCY SCRANTON:  My 52-degree sand wedge.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  And from there it went over?   
 NANCY SCRANTON:  Over the green.  I had a downhill lie out of the rough and hit a really good pitch and made it for about 12 feet, so that was good.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  And then can we go over the details of the double on 18.   
 NANCY SCRANTON:  Yeah.  I hit a good drive and had 192 to the pin.  Felt like there for a while it was off to the right.  Then it kind of felt like it was into me and so I felt like I had to hit it hard.  Like I said, I just left it out to the right and it was my 3 rescue club.   
 Just to the right of the bunker, short right there, and literally it was -- I could have lost it if there was somebody out there (indiscernible).  I wasn't sure.   
 It was one of those where I hope I can get this on the green, and I almost got it on the green.  If I could've gotten it to the green it would have released obviously.  But it just came out and sunk right in the grass again.   
 It's really disappointing.  I mean, to make a bogey is one thing, but to finish with a double after hitting it -- because like I said, on 15 I had it close for birdie and then (indiscernible).   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  A 2-putt on 18?   
 NANCY SCRANTON:  And then I hit it on, and it was a really tough pin, especially from the right side, and I had about a twenty-footer for bogey.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Questions for Nancy?   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 NANCY SCRANTON:  Yeah.  I was checking -- I wasn't feeling the ball.  I was just feeling how far down on the ground because it almost looked like it could have been embedded.  (indiscernible.) That's what it looked like almost.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 NANCY SCRANTON:  Yeah, I hit my lob wedge, my 58-degree wedge, the first time.  My friend Lisa Walters who used to play out here is a caddying for me because the caddie who usually caddies for me is in New Zealand visiting his family.   
 She played out here for a number of years, and I talked her into coming out and caddying.  She's like, Go ahead and hit it.  I was trying to just hit it like a bunker shot just as hard as I could pretty much, and I just couldn't get it out.   
 That's the difference with us and the guys, the club head speed and the strength, especially around the green.  Hit a 52 degree sand wedge and, yeah, it carried and came out nicely.  I executed it well and it just came out a little bit better than I thought it would be.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 NANCY SCRANTON:  Yeah, I saw him.  My life's changed a lot in the last couple years.  I had twins two and a half years ago.  I haven't seen Hank much.  We still -- my husband -- I work on the things that Hank and I have always worked on.  My husband helps me and we talk about all the things that we've always worked on.   
 But, yeah, we haven't got tone spend much time together.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 NANCY SCRANTON:  My life is really different than it used to be.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 NANCY SCRANTON:  No.  We waited a long time and then when we did we got two, so that was great.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 NANCY SCRANTON:  Luke and Libby.  They're here this week, too.  It's kind of a girls' week.  My kind of cousin-in-law, cousin by marriage, is a here with me.  She's from Springfield, Illinois.  She came and helped me last week at home.  She came here with me, and, in fact, she's taking the kid with her next week to Springfield and I'm going to meet Mark in California.  But they're with us 95% of the time.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 NANCY SCRANTON:  Yes.  Probably in a while.  You know, it's funny.  I've been -- the body this year, I've had moments.  I felt like I -- but I really felt good today.  I missed a couple fairways and really don't want to do that here.  You don't want to miss the greens here.  They're big and you ought to hit them, but when you don't -- that was a little frustrating.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 NANCY SCRANTON:  Yeah.  I had quite a few chances.  Obviously when you get 7-under for 11 holes you've made some putts.  But I like the greens.  The read is really comfortable for me, and I think that's half the battle.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 NANCY SCRANTON:  I've won a major.  The du Maurier.  It used to be -- it was before the British Open.  I won in '91.  It's no longer.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Any more questions for Nancy?  Great.  Thank you for your time, and good luck this week.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT