SYBASE BIG APPLE CLASSIC PRESENTED BY GOLF MAGAZINE
July 21, 2001
Nancy Scranton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








NANCY SCRANTON:   I made about a 12-footer on 2 for birdie, 8-iron.  No. 5, I hit driver, 7-iron to about six feet and made that for birdie.  Then No. 7, I hit a really good 3-iron.  It was great.  Just rolled through the green, just about a foot through the green, and I had a terrible lie and chipped it up about six feet and missed it.  That was my bogey on that side. No. 12, pulled my tee shot a little bit and once again, I was just about a step into the rough and had a really bad lie and just made bogey there.  18, I hit a good drive and good 3-wood that just jumped up there but rolled back, and I chipped it up there to three feet and made it. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)

NANCY SCRANTON:   A little bit.  I'm fighting some sinuses or something.  My head has pounded for two days, so trying to do something.  That was kind of tough.  My head was pounding.  I don't know what it would be. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)

NANCY SCRANTON:   I thought maybe just one day, it will go away.  But two days, now I'm taking something.  It was all right.  It was good.  Good groove. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)

NANCY SCRANTON:   Yeah, especially when we're waiting.  Like Rosie would take a drink of water, eat something, look around.  A little bit. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)

NANCY SCRANTON:   Yeah, there's lot a of difference.  I played better today.  I drove it much better than I did yesterday.  I had a stretch in the middle of my round where I hit some funny iron shots, just making a couple bad swings.  But I hit a lot of really good putts today.  Made a couple good saves, but didn't make  -- you know, my birdie putts were not much.  I had some chances and hit a lot of putts right where I wanted to. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)

NANCY SCRANTON:   Yeah, I made some good saves in there, when she actually had made a couple birdies.  That was really  -- it was really key.  I made a really good sand save on 14.  And then 16, I hit it  -- my feet were in the bunker the ball was in the bunker on a bad lie and hit a really good shot.  I don't know if you saw that or not, but there was a dandelion in my way.  That was really satisfying there, because to make about a 6-footer on that green is pretty satisfying.  I knew it was in; so it was good. I hit a really good putt on 17 just over the edge for birdie.  Hit a great 3-wood that I really thought  -- I don't know, somebody said it just kind of bounced and kicked a little bit left and fell off.  Thought it was going to be right in the middle of the green. 

Q.  How important was it to get that birdie on 18? 

NANCY SCRANTON:   I think a little bit of both.  You really don't want to be behind that much, and knowing Rosie is going to make at least birdie when she is sitting there right on the green.  I had all intentions of trying to make that chip, but left myself a good putt at it, and really needed to make that there, I think. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)  Do you get more aggressive or wait until the end? 

NANCY SCRANTON:   On this golf course, on 15 and 18, things can happen.  They are not gimmee birdies, but you can make an eagle on them.  So you can have a two-shot swing pretty easily on a couple of those.  I'm going to try to not pay too much attention.  Obviously, we'll be playing together, so I'll know what's going on.  Things can change quickly, as we saw in the men's Open.  You never know. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT