NEW  ALBANY GOLF CLASSIC
September 26, 2000
Pat Bradley
Beth Daniel
Pat Hurst
Becky Iverson
Rosie Jones
Meg Mallon
Nancy Scranton
Sherri Steinhauer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAT BRADLEY: I'd like to welcome everybody here. We're happy to be here for you today.
I'm very honored and proud to be able to be captain of this great group of players. We
look forward to our trip overseas and we look forward to going up against the 12 best that
Europe has, and I can't think of anybody else that I can imagine to be with us. These are
the 12 very, very best, and not only experience-wise, but in their play and their
determination, and their desire to make this team was just overwhelming to me as I watched
this all unfold for two years. The other night when we made the announcement in Portland,
for the first time in two years, I saw a group of players smiling, congratulating one
another, looking at one another for the first time as a unit and realizing that this
player is my teammate; this player, we're going to go and work together to retain the Cup;
this player, I'm going to have faith in; I'm going to trust in this player and vice versa.
So that was a very, very exciting and telling moment for me at that time. 

Q. Pat, will you do anything special to foster some team unity, any special, I don't
know, gatherings or exercises? 

PAT BRADLEY: Well, I'll keep my little cherubs close by. No, we'll just -- we're just
going to -- my little cherubs -- (laughter). We're going to stick close to one another.
We're going to, you know, talk things out. I mean, I think these players are great friends
and competitors in their own rights. They have been playing with one another and against
one another for many, many years. They know each other very, very well. And so, I really,
you know, know that it won't be a difficult task. I mean, we'll keep the rookies close by
and make sure that they join in in our thoughts and what they are thinking so that we are
all on the same page.

Q. Nancy and Becky, could you talk about your first experience and how much making the
team was part of your goal this year? 

NANCY SCRANTON: It's very exciting, and, you know, it was pretty special the last few
weeks. I'm kind of glad that's over. Now the fun part begins. I know it is going to be
tough, but I'm really excited about it and I can't think of anything better than
representing my country. I've got a great team and I'm glad to be on this side. 
BECKY IVERSON: It is definitely one of my goals. And I didn't probably perform as well
as I'd like to the last few weeks, just being very nervous. And right now I'm just kind of
more relieved than anything and I'm hoping that it will go away and I'll start to get more
excited about heading over there. 

Q. For Nancy and Becky, I wonder if you've already tapped the minds about your
teammates about what to expect when you go over there and the pressures and how the crowd
will react, that kind of thing, and how that will help you prepare?

NANCY SCRANTON: Like I said, I'm still enjoying the fact that I made the team right
now, and I'm sure as the next five days go along, I'll start to realize that I've got a
lot bigger goal ahead of me. 
BECKY IVERSON: I haven't really spoken to anybody too much about it because I didn't
want to jinx that I wasn't in, for sure, and you hate to start talking about something
like that. I've listened to them talk to each other and I've heard a few things. I'm sure
I'll hear a lot more in the next few days. 

Q. Beth, you said on TV the other night that you didn't expect to get picked; you
expected the "I'm sorry" phone call. But now that you've had a little bit of
time to let it sink in, what are your thoughts now, and are you feeling -- I'm sure you're
feeling about good it, but what do you feel like how?

BETH DANIEL: Well I, feel great about it. I feel like it's a great opportunity for me.
I missed the last Solheim Cup at Muirfield Village and went there as a spectator and
really enjoyed it as a spectator. I'm really looking forward to going back and playing
again. I feel like Loch Lomond will be a good course for me. I think it is a course that I
will really like, and I'm looking forward to playing it and I'm just happy to be a member
of this team. And I told Pat the other night, whatever role she wants me to play, I'll do
it for her. I'm just very, very happy to be a part of it. 

Q. For any of the players, I'm wondering with all of the build up, and you're in here
for a press conference today, is it difficult keeping your mind on playing in a tournament
this week without dreaming about the Solheim Cup next week? 

MEG MALLON: Rosie and I are easy. We're going to get fired up as soon as we see the
Ohio State flags out there and everything. We're going to have a lot of emotions thinking
about next week, and also wanting to play well in front of where we went to college, and
we're going to have a lot of friends and family out here. I think what all of us are going
to do this week is dance together -- and getting our dance together means winning a golf
tournament. And we're all going to prepare for this week, like we're going to win this
week, because we want to go in next week with our best frame of mind and our best game and
our best attitude. I don't think you're going to have to worry about any of us looking
ahead. 
PAT BRADLEY: I think the conditions here are pretty similar to what we might see over
there : Very wet, not a lot of roll and a little bit on the chilly side. Although, this
probably will be a warm day. I mean, I actually wanted to play today, because I felt like
it would be a good preparation as what this golf course is, for what we might see next
week. 
ROSIE JONES: When we went over there two weeks ago to play Loch Lomond, it was an
absolutely beautiful day like this. The course wasn't even that wet and it wasn't playing
that long. And I played with a couple long players and that golf course is going to be
pretty long and pretty similar to what this golf course is playing together. 

Q. This is for Beth Daniel. I wonder when you were recovering from the shoulder
surgery, there must have been some frustrating, low moments. I wondered if you ever
thought maybe that you were done, not as a player, but done as being able to compete at
the highest level, and, you know, how does it feel to be back at the highest level? 

BETH DANIEL: Well, it feels great. I know Nancy can relate to this, too. Any time you
have any kind of surgery, you never know if you're really going to be able to come back
from it. And it's just a risk that you have to take, because it's -- basically there was
no choice. It was surgery or no golf. And I wanted to continue to play golf, and to
continue to play golf at any level, I needed to have surgery on my shoulder. So, it was a
lot of hard work trying to come back from that surgery, but I've done it. I was willing to
put in the time and effort, and very similar to what I did to try and get on this Solheim
Cup team this year. I had to put a lot of time and effort into it and it's paid off. I'm
here. 

Q. This is for Pat Bradley. The Europeans would seem to have an advantage -- the home
course advantage and the experience advantage. If the Americans are to retain the Cup,
where does your advantage lie? And how do you safeguard and make sure the Solheim doesn't
get acrimonious the way the Ryder Cup has in the previous years? 

PAT BRADLEY: Meg Mallon just stated for your second part of the question that we are
women (laughter) -- and we will conduct ourselves in that manner. I think one of the key
differences that is the difference in the Europeans and the Americans coming together,
Europe spends quite a bit of their time over here in the United States. These players have
become great friends of the Europeans. They play practice rounds together. They have
dinner together. Some Europeans live in almost the same neighborhoods as some of the
Americans. So I think there is a much more, you know, friendship -- deeper friendship that
the Americans and the Europeans feel towards one another. And again, you know, we are
going over there keeping the integrity of the game at it's highest, and match play, there
are rules to the game of match play. These players are, you know, very well versed in
match play and they will keep it within those rules. Going over to Europe is the
challenge. It is a very big challenge. But, we are world-class players. We have traveled
all over the world and played all over the world, and we have adjusted, you know, to
different parts of the world, and we will have no problems in adjusting to Scotland. We
are looking forward to the Scottish hospitality, to the hospitality of Loch Lomond, and we
are just going to have a great time. 

Q. A two-part question for Pat Hurst. Last year you had to take some time off when your
son was born. First of all, when you first came back from that, did you look at this as a
situation where "I really have got a lot of work to do to get back on this
team"? And secondly, how much of an adjustment is it for you now playing with a
child, as opposed to before? 

PAT HURST: The first part of the question, you know, I knew I only had a year to make
up, you know, because we had just the rest of this year. And I knew I had to play well,
and that was one of my -- one of the main things that I focused on this year was to make
enough points to make Solheim Cup and just try and make it in the Top-10 every week. And
I'm just glad I won early on this year. Made it a lot easier. Picked up a lot of points
there. I picked up some points at Dinah. So early on, I picked up a lot of points and it
made the rest of the year a little bit easier for me. I took off some time just these last
couple of weeks to prepare for Solheim. And also I think having Jackson has helped me
tremendously. Now my time is -- when I come out to the golf course I'm focused for two
hours just on practicing; not six hours at the golf course and only one hour practicing
and five hours of chitchat and getting nothing done. So now I know my time is limited. I
take care of what I need to take care of and I think it has helped me a lot. 

Q. For Sherri Steinhauer, being one of the experienced members of the teams now, what
does the experience of two previous Solheim Cup experiences, how does that change your
approach to the third, and how much more, you know, familiar, confident, etc., Are you
entering these matches? 

SHERRI STEINHAUER: I think I can always dig back and go back to the previous two
experiences and put those towards this year, and, you know, the experience of all the
pressure definitely will pay off. But I'm just looking to being a part of this team again.
You know, one of the main differences probably, though, is that this will be the first
time that I will have played over in Europe. My past two Solheim Cups have been in the
United States. So I probably will be going to the other experienced players to talk about
some things about that. But other than that, I'm just, again, like everyone else, proud to
be a part of the team and look forward to going over to Europe. 

Q. Pat, leading up to your selections, how much of a concern was Dottie's back to you?
And have you talked to her since about the condition that it is in, any pain, that type of
thing? 

PAT BRADLEY: Dottie did injure her back at the Open. I think it was frightening to all
of us. Not just me as captain of Solheim, but to the LPGA organization. She is a credit to
our organization, and, as you know, a credit to our team. I kept very, very close contact
with Dottie, and, you know, she was very up front and let me know exactly how things were
going. And she was very encouraged when she went to her doctors, and they put her on a
great program where she is feeling no pain. And, of course last week, you know, watching
Dottie come back after two and a half months of not playing, it was the best thing that we
could have all seen. It was a nice shot in the arm for all of us. And she was very, very
excited and she said she felt no pain and she's ready to go, and that's wonderful. 

Q. How many of your players have been over and played the course, and what do you think
of the course as a match-play course? And I heard there's some problems with the greens,
what do you know about the conditions? 

PAT BRADLEY: When we went over and played a practice round, Rosie Jones went, Brandie
Burton went, Nancy Scranton went, Michelle Redmond went, and we had a great time. I was
thrilled watching the players play. They had great -- great praise for it. I think it will
be a terrific match-play golf course. There is a tremendous variety of golf holes that
will really make the players think. You know, depending on how their matches stand, there
are holes that they might entice them to give it a go. Especially one hole, I believe it
was the 14th hole where there's a chance to almost drive the green, if we've got the guts
enough to do it, and depending on our matches. When we were over there for the practice
round, they were working on the greens. And I've talked to the superintendent and the pro,
and they were very encouraged that everything was going to be just fine, back in shape. So
I know they know what they are doing. They are professionals at getting golf courses
ready; so I have no worries about how the golf course or the greens will be. 

Q. Nancy, when you went and played the practice round at Loch Lomond, what were the
parts of your game that you felt comfortable with that matched up well to the course? 

NANCY SCRANTON: I really like the golf course a lot. It was not a typical -- what you
would think of as a British-style golf course. It was, you know like a course over here,
and it played fairly long, even though the weather was good, I'm sure it could play a lot
longer. But I immediately was very comfortable with it. I think I was much more relieved
after I played it, because I thought it really did fit my game and gave me a lot more
confidence now that I can think about the golf course and I know what I'm going to walk
into. It was really a lot of fun to play. Rosie and I played together and we both really
enjoyed it. So, looking forward to seeing it again. 

Q. Becky, when I spoke with you at the Women's Open, it seemed like you were fighting a
bit of a shoulder injury and just looking to get through the season, and then you went on
that run there a few weeks later. Can you put in perspective and tell me what the turning
point was that allowed you to get on that roll and allowed you to evaluate your play
entering the Solheim Cup? 

BECKY IVERSON: I had gone to a doctor who had thought I had torn my rotator cuff and
was doing rehab for that and then found out after the Open that I actually had not torn
it; that it was just out of socket. And I got that fixed and doing a little different
rehab and I haven't had any problems with it since the du Maurier. 

Q. Brandie, coming back to this town, do you -- I don't know, do you think at all about
the Solheim two years ago? I know the Tour has only been back here for two years, but do
you still think about the Solheim two years ago when you come back here? 

BRANDIE BURTON: That was my first time ever here -- I didn't play here last year. You
know, I haven't looked to see if there's any big creeks out there on the golf course --
(Laughter.)

Q. Rosie, I know that you're kind of the forgotten golfer out here in New Mexico, and I
wonder if you still feel ties to the state and whether you play at all, especially in an
international competition, with New Mexico and Albuquerque in mind? 

ROSIE JONES: Yes, I do feel very connected with Albuquerque in both -- that my family
still lives there. I still have a couple of brothers and sisters and my mom that live
there in Albuquerque, and I get back there to see them a couple times a year. And
actually, each Solheim Cup that I've been into, we carry a state flag that resembles where
we're from, and I've chosen to use my New Mexico flag, instead of my Georgia flag, where I
actually live now. So in a way, I still call New Mexico that my home, and even though it's
still Nancy Lopez's state, I'm still from there and always will be. (Laughter.) And
Georgia, too. Follow me all over the place. 

Q. My question for Pat is what kind of attributes does Rosie bring to your team? What
do you look to her to bring when you tee it up? 

PAT BRADLEY: Well, Rosie is a very -- she has a lot of tenacity. She's a tiger, and she
won't back down to anything. I've watched her and been with her in other Solheims, and she
gets the job done, and that's what is most important. 

Q. Meg, I wondered, you spoke earlier of having some members of your family there. But
this week, I wonder if your father is going to go with you to Scotland like he did in '92,
I guess it was? 

MEG MALLON: Yes, actually my parents are going to be there, and my two brothers are
going to make the trip over, too. They will carry the ugly American symbol quite well and
wave their flag, and they will help us out and cheer us on. I'm just so happy that my
parents are able to come over and be able to see that, and I'm sure that most of our
families are coming. They are the lone rangers out there. They have a tough job to fight
between all the European spectators and root for their kids. It's just a neat experience
for them. 

Q. Sherri, could you compare and contrast the focus in your would previous Solheim Cup
experience, the focus during the competition there versus the way you focus and grind on a
week-to-week basis? It just seems like you've had the ability to bear down in this type of
competition? 

SHERRI STEINHAUER: Well, I think, you know, it's been two years working so hard to make
the team, and once you realize you're on the team, then you put your focus towards, you
know, how you're going to approach the week. And you know, it's a very, very difficult
week, but yet, it's a very rewarding week, and you know, I just try to stay very focused
on the task at hand and try not to -- try not to blow it out of proportion too much,
because you can do that with the country behind you and watching you and all. But I just
try to stay as focused as I can at the present and what I'm trying to achieve. And, you
know fortunately, I have had some success in the past with it. But it comes with 11 other
team members, too, and they are all trying to do the same thing, and you know, it's a team
effort and that's the beauty of the Solheim Cup. 

Q. Brandie, last year you missed entire season because of the shoulder surgery. First
of all, how is the shoulder doing now; and secondly, how rewarding is it for you to be a
part of this team because you had such an uphill climb to get there? 

BRANDIE BURTON: I did have the two surgeries, and the shoulder is doing really well.
I'm excited that I have had no pain for six months now. One thing that I did do when I
started off in 2000 was I set a goal to make this team. I got off to a really good start
but then backed up towards the end of the season, and I think most of it was putting
pressure on myself to get on the team, because I realized the last four times how
rewarding it was and how much fun it was to get together as a quote unquote family for a
week. For Pat to pick me was a great honor and I'm just very excited to be here. 
PAT BRADLEY: I'd like to add one thing. Brandie had a difficult year in 1996, and she
was 100% in her matches in Wales. 

Q. Nancy, the last few weeks, your scores, it looks like it has been a struggle out
there for you of recent. How much is it the race for the Solheim Cup -- the last few spots
got tight. And how much of that weighed on you on the regular tour? 

NANCY SCRANTON: You know because you've asked me this before -- and maybe because youu
keep asking me. (Laughter. I think actually earlier or late summer is when I started to
put a lot of pressure on myself, because I played pretty well early in the year, and I
think I was pushing a little too hard in the summer and thinking too much about my golf
swing and trying to make it better instead of just trying to play. And actually started to
play better (inaudible) which was kind of nice. Played well in Betsy and last week didn't
play well and was fighting a cold, which I am just now getting over. I think the stress
last week of a cold and the end of the points and everything together, I think I just
about had it. But I'm excited. Like Becky said earlier, I'm relieved and excited and tired
and all of that, but I'm really excited about it. 

Q. The mental process as far as going into match play, rather than stroke play, I know
you did well this summer against Canada on a personal note. What do you do differently
mentally to get ready for the day? 

NANCY SCRANTON: Well, I haven't played a lot of match play, and it was good that I
played in the Nation's Cup this year. It was a great experience. I played with Becky in
the first round in the best ball; it's different, and I'm going to have to talk to some of
the players about it. I did have a good day in the singles' match. I think it is a little
easier getting up for the singles' match, because I'm used to playing by myself and I'm
not used to playing that much with a partner. But it was a great experience and I'm going
to draw on that, and hopefully, it will have the same results. 

Q. Kelly, you've been sort of the quiet, steady one of the bunch. There hasn't been a
whole lot of fireworks with your game recently, and yet your position was pretty well
locked up and has been for a while. Can you talk about your game these days and how you're
feeling? 

KELLY ROBBINS: You're right. It has not been all that much to write about, that type of
thing. But it's been close. And I know it's kind of hard to explain sometimes, and I am
waiting for it just as much as the next person to break through and make the putts when
you need to and that type of thing. I've actually been playing fairly solid, like I said.
Nothing GREAT. Not a lot of low numbers or anything like that. But I've felt good. Just
came off about a four-week break and it was well needed. I wanted to come here to Columbus
and play and get my mind back on things and the task at hand and go from there. Extremely
excited to play next week. I think, like we all know, it is amazing what we can do under
certain situations in the Solheim Cup; it brings it out in all of us. I don't know if it
would matter -- I give it to Pat trying to choose who to bring to this team -- it just
doesn't matter. We all know what needs to be done. We all focus when the time comes and
we're all going to be ready. No matter what your game is that week prior; it changes once
you get under those conditions. 

Q. And for Pat Hurst, because I know you've been paired with Kelly, if you can talk
about her as a match-play player, competitor and what she brings to this team? 

PAT HURST: You know the last time Kelly and I played together, I left Kelly in some
situations where, you know, it's a situation where she pulls through every time. And, you
know, everybody especially the last Solheim when we played together, I left her with
5-footers coming in the last four or five holes, and who made them but Kelly, every time.
But, you know, she's definitely a great player, and you know, she's a great teammate. I
think she lifted my game up a little bit when we were playing together this last Solheim,
and I hope I did the same for her, and I think the whole team -- being on the team, I
think, you know, your game rises one extra notch. Once you tee it up and you hear you're
playing for the United States of America, I mean, you know, each and every one of us, I
think we all grind and we learn how to get the ball in the hole some way, some how. 

Q. Kelly, on your previous answer about no matter what your game was the week prior,
would you like this week in this tournament to keep playing the way you said you have,
steady and being close, or is there something you're looking for to keep you confident
going into next week?

KELLY ROBBINS: I always like playing steady and playing close. You always want to be
able to perform the best you can every week. That's why we're here. That's why we play. We
play to win. It's like Meg was saying. Obviously for confidence-wise, mind-wise, you do
want to have a good week before. I mean, everyone does. But by the time those matches
start on Thursday, it's such a different atmosphere and situation. It's so hard to explain
to Nancy and to Becky, I mean, just what you feel when you're there. It's like none other
than only experience can tell you, to make you feel it. I just know that by the time
Thursday rolls around next week, Friday rolls around next week, everyone is going to be as
prepared as we possibly can be, and that's all that anyone can ask, to prepare as much as
we can and do the best job as teammates. And you know that person is trying their butt off
and that's all that you can ask for. 

Q. Rosie said she's bringing her hometown flag. Anybody else bringing any kind of lucky
charm with them? 

PAT BRADLEY: (Inaudible) ... i'll be fortunate enough -- I'm going to have a brother
and his wife and his two children that are 14 and 10; and a brother that's bringing his
son, Kyle, who is 14. So, mother is going to sit home and watch it on TV. You know, at 76,
moms need a little more attention at that age, and so she understood that and felt it
would be best to stay at home, because I will be busy from morning until night. But I will
have some family. 

Q. The last three Solheim Cups have been pretty controversial for one reason for
another. Do you issue any special marching orders this time, and will you specifically
speak to Dottie as Judy Rankin has before you? 

PAT BRADLEY: I've talked with Dottie many a times, and we are just going to go there as
and a unit, as a team; and consider that -- as I say, we have great friendships with the
Europeans. And Dale and I have talked on numerous times, and we have pledged to one
another and to everyone else that we will play with integrity and the game in hand and
within the rules of match play, and just have a great tournament and just have a lot of
fun. 

Q. Becky, I remember from the transcripts at the Women's British Open, you indicated it
was your first experience over there. Given the success that you had over there, what did
you learn from that experience, and in the new situation, and what do you hope to apply
next week when you go over to the Solheim Cup? 

BECKY IVERSON: From what I've heard from the other players, it's not really an
English-style golf course like we played at Royal Birkdale. But the jet-lag didn't get me
like I thought it would. That's nice. I'm not worried about being too tired next week. I
enjoy going overseas. I haven't done it to often, but when I have I've played really well,
but just really excited about the opportunity.
LESLIE KING: The Solheim Cup is October 6-8 and you can see it on the Golf Channel and
NBC. Thank you. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT