ROLAND GARROS
September 28, 2020
Tsvetana Pironkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  T. PIRONKOVA/A. Petkovic
 6-3, 6-3
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. Can you just talk through what your preparation has been like for this event.  I know you said that you would ideally like to have more time to prepare for tournaments, but what was the turnaround like for you and how long did it take for your body to feel as close to a hundred percent as you can going into this event?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Yeah, well I had about two weeks and I had like five or six days off completely, like no tennis, no gym, nothing, I just needed that time with my family.
 Then slowly I started playing on clay, doing some gym.  And I was feeling well, actually.  I didn't expect to feel so well so quickly on the clay court because earlier this year I switched from hard to clay and it was horrible, it was very, very hard.
 But this time I guess I still have my rhythm from US Open and it was kind of easier, so that was good.  The extra time I got from receiving a wildcard, which was very nice for me, and I'm very grateful to Roland Garros for giving me that opportunity to play directly into the main draw.  That really helped me because I had a week, a week more.
 Q. Then just can you talk about today's match against Andrea.  Obviously you guys have played before, you know each other's games, but with these conditions, especially out on the outer courts, how are you finding that your game translates this year at Roland Garros?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Yeah, I was a bit worried with the conditions because it's quite cold and also very humid, very wet, and the ball is heavy.  But the courts were fine, they were okay.  So I guess I did play a good match.  I made a few unforced errors here and there, but I expected that for the first match here.
 So I think I played a good match.
 Q. In 2016, that was the last time it was really cold and wet at Roland Garros and obviously you had your best result.  Do you think that there's, because like you said, you were a little bit worried about the heaviness of the conditions, did that result surprise you then and would your kind of potential success here surprise you now?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Well back in 2016 I guess I was in a good form.  Again, I started the tournament pretty well from what I remember, and with each match things were going better and better.
 Obviously I had a lot of luck back then because I would play my match and I finish my match and then it would start pouring.  So I finish my match, I go to the hotel, I take a rest and everyone else just wait for their matches.  So I was quite lucky then with that.
 I don't think we can compare the two years.  The situation is different now.  I approach it like a new situation and I try to adjust the best way I can.
 Q. You could play Serena in the next round.  What were your thoughts when you saw that that could be the case, given what happened in New York, and how different do you think that matchup will be, if it happens, on clay?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Well, you know every match is different, that is for sure.  I didn't see the draw initially, I never do, I only see first round.  But I've been told later that I would play against her if I win, which of course it's exciting.  It's always exciting to face her, especially after our last match.  We played three sets, it was very exciting match, so we'll see.  I'm definitely very excited.
 Q. Is your family here with you in Paris or no?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   No, it's just me and my brother again because, you know, the quarantine here and all the testing, we decided it's best.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT