QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 10, 2014
Tsvetana Pironkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 T. PIRONKOVA/R. Vinci
  6‑3, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   If you could talk about the game?  
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Sure.   Oh, it was a pretty good game for me.   I'm happy with the way I played.   I started really solid, but then my concentration got lost a little bit.  
But as I said, I'm happy with the way I played.   I'm also happy that I won against her, because we have played for three or four times and I never won.   So it's an achievement for me.  
   
 Q.   Was it easy to play in the weather conditions with the wind and a bit chilly?  
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Yeah, I got to play two matches here because I'm coming out of the quallies, and actually the conditions yesterday were worse.   It was colder, and there was a lot of wind.   So I guess that helped me to adapt to those conditions.  
It's never easy to play when there is a wind, but, you know, we have to adapt.  
   
 Q.   Coming out of qualifying, how much did that help with your preparation for today?   Familiar with the surface, getting used to the conditions leading into today's match?   
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Yeah, definitely helped me.   I played two good matches against good opponents, and I now feel better with the surface, as I said, with the weather conditions.  
And also, it always help to play a bit extra when you come in the tournament.   So I think quallies are good for me, obviously.  
   
 Q.   Getting used to playing out of qualifying obviously did well earlier this year in Sydney.   
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   How much has that helped with your confidence for the rest of the year?  
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   I definitely feel more confident now, for sure.   As I mentioned before, a title was something that I really missed and I really wanted throughout the whole, all my career so far.  
So now that I have it, I know for sure that I can do it.   I'm just expecting every opportunity for me to do it again, so I'm really enjoying going out at any WTA event.  
   
 Q.   Obviously you've played through qualifying for a few tournaments.   With that comes an improved ranking.   Are you looking forward to not having to play qualifying for events upcoming?  
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Yes and no, obviously (smiling).   Yeah, it's better to start directly from the main draw, because here you have to win six matches in the main draw, obviously, to win the tournament, and coming out of the quallies they are, in total, eight.   So it's not easy.  
But on the other hand, playing a few extra matches obviously helped me.   So no doubt.   I think it's better to play directly in the main draw.   I'm really happy that my ranking is improving, and like soon I will be able to play in any WTA Tour events straight in the main draw.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT