APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 9, 2014
Tsvetana Pironkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 T. PIRONKOVA/P. Kvitova
  6‑4, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Congratulations.   
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   First final.   Talk us through.   Obviously didn't freeze up at the end.   Nerves didn't come in the all?  
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Of course I got nerves, but I was trying to cope with it.   I feel amazing.   I feel incredibly happy right now.  
In the same time, I'm trying to stay grounded and focused for the next match, which is obviously the most important match of the week.  
So I can't wait.   
   
 Q.   You were asked on court about how your body was holding up.   I notice you had your thigh bandaged.   Is that just a precaution?  
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   I've had some pains here and there.   It's quite normal considering I've been playing for seven consecutive days now.  
But these are not serious injuries.   These are normal things that happen to you after so many matches.   I've had them before.   I know it's nothing to worry about too much.  
I just have to do all the mandatory things, like massaging, ice massaging, and all the other stuff.   
   
 Q.   You spoke to us yesterday about how relaxed you feel this season.   You're in the final.   There will be some nerves.   But will you try and take that relaxation into the final?  
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Yeah, I'm going to try to do that.   I suppose there will be some nerves tomorrow, but that is a challenge.   
We'll see.   
   
 Q.   Seven wins is normally a Grand Slam.   
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   That's what I was thinking.   
   
 Q.   Here you are in your first final.   It's a milestone for you.   How do you describe it yourself?   
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Yeah, definitely a milestone.   This is something I've been dreaming about for a long time now and something that I've been missing, to go to the final or even have a title.   
So you can only imagine how I will feel tomorrow on the court.   (Smiling.)  
We'll see what happens.  
   
 Q.   You're the first qualifier to make it through to the final.   We've had qualifiers in the semifinals but not in the women's final before.   Does that make you feel as though you've made your milestone and it's something quite significant?  
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Yeah, yeah.   For me this tournament has always been one of the greatest tournaments.   I been here a few times before.   I been playing qualifying here, and I actually never imagine me going to the finals here.  
It was in my mind such a huge tournament, so doing that, you can imagine how I feel right now.   
   
 Q.   A little earlier Del Potro was talking about speed of courts being quite fast.   Would it be fair to say that they suit you fairly well?   Seems they're very quick, and I note that you had most of your very good results ‑‑ you had some good results at Wimbledon over the years.   Done well there on the faster courts.   Would that be fair to say?  
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Yeah, definitely.   I also think courts are a little bit faster maybe from the previous years.   But for me, that is only a plus.   I usually play better when the game is faster, so it's only a plus for me.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell us a little bit, your sort of ranking has gone up and down a little bit.   Have you had some injuries in previous years?   Other factors with your ranking going up and down?  
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   No, no injuries whatsoever.   I'm very grateful for that actually, that I've been healthy.  
It's just that I guess in every player's or in every sportsman's career there are times when you are up and down.   For me especially.   (Laughter.)  
I guess it's just my personality.   It's a bit difficult for me to get motivated all the time.   But I've been working very hard on that.   I real hope that this season I could be more consistent.   
   
 Q.   Talk about Madison and Angelique.   I know you've played Angelique before.   Talk about both girls.   
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Yeah, I've played with Angelique two times before.   We are 1‑All now.   She's definitely very tough opponent.   I kind of know what to expect knowing her game.   But, you know, it's a new day.   You just go on the court, and the best thing is to forget all the previous matches and to concentrate on the moment, take the right decisions.  
And about Madison, I've only played doubles against her.   What I notice is that she has a huge serve, so definitely that's something to look out for.   I can also presume that being a young player she is very motivated at the moment.   Also would be very tough opponent.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT