WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2011
Tsvetana Pironkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







T. PIRONKOVA/V. Williams
  6-2, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. You're not surprised? It's easy for you to beat Venus Williams all the time?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: No, I wouldn't say that. No, not at all. 
 I think today's match probably looked easier on the outside, but it took me enormous amount of, you know, power to beat her. 

 Q. What is the difference with the other wins? Were you more prepared mentally to do it, also because she is not in the best shape or not? 
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: Well, uhm, I think I played well since the first match that I played here. I'm happy with the way I play this year. 
 I think I've raised my game to a different level, to a better level. I would say I played better than last year. But, you know, I think she started very well. I think she started very well the match, but I kept pushing her. 
 As I said, I played well. So she probably got a little shaky and I took over.

 Q. How do you explain the fact you had won only four matches in the circuit this year? Why do you suddenly start playing so well?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: Well, you know, it's difficult. The WTA Tour is difficult. All of the players are amazing, you know. 
 I don't have an explanation for that. This is the sport. This is tennis. Every time when I went on the court I tried to do my best, and I did. But did I have the great results? 

 Q. You were not injured before?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: No, I don't have a physical problems, which I am happy for, and I hope it will continue that way. 

 Q. Sometimes players get the idea of how other players play. Is something like that happen between you and Venus?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: Well, it definitely helps that I played with her before. And the thing that I won her last year also helps. 
 I couldn't say that I know how to play her because every time is different, you know. I don't go on the court with a strategy in my head. When I go on the court, I see what's working, what's not working, and I try to play the best way that I can. That's it.

 Q. Last year I met some of your relatives in Wimbledon. You had a lot of family around. How many people are there this year? 
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: Well, yeah, I had a lot of family last year. Almost everyone was here. But this year so far I only got my mom and my dad here with me. 
 But it depends. Maybe some of my other relatives will come also. 

 Q. Do you all still live in Plovdiv?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: Yes. 

 Q. Can you tell us something about that city and the relationship with tennis. Who else has ever been a tennis player from Plovdiv, men or women?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: Actually, we don't have big names in the world of tennis from Plovdiv, but in tennis world in Bulgaria, Plovdiv, it's called the sport city of Bulgaria. 
 In the past we had a lot a lot of players from Plovdiv playing in our championships there. We have a good level. So we have good traditions there. It's not like I'm coming from nothing or something like that. 
 But obviously so far I am the best one who has come from there. I hope I will make the way for many more players to come. 

 Q. Who is coaching you?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: My father has always coached me ever since I was a baby. 

 Q. Do you think this is very normal? Bartoli has the father. A lot of players, especially women, have the father as coach. The Williams have a father who doesn't play tennis. Your father was a tennis player?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: No, he wasn't a tennis player, but he plays tennis very good and he's been coaching for a lot of years also before I was born. So he's good. 
 But I think that's normal. I mean, it's obviously that many players are like that. Tennis is a sport that definitely it's good if you have the support of your family. It's probably one of the most important things.

 Q. Don't you think it's a bit strange, all these fathers becoming international coaches, the daughters become extraordinary athletes and champions? It means you don't need to be so technically prepared to become a good coach. Because even in the past, Seles, Graf... 
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: I don't find it strange at all. I mean, the person either can do it or he can't. All of the fathers here on the tour, they show that they can do it, so I don't see what's the strange thing. 

 Q. So you don't need to be a great strategist?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: Well, obviously they are.

 Q. All the parents?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: I guess so, yeah, 'cause you see how their children are successful.

 Q. The beginning of the tournament it was said that Serena being a favorite was an indictment of the woman's tour because she has been away from the game so long. Venus the same. Have you seen her out of shape, not as good as she was last time around? What do you think about the argument that it's better for you that they are not going farther into the tournament?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: You mean Serena or Venus? 

 Q. Both of them. Particularly the case was made of Serena being the favorite of the tournament after 11 months away from the game. 
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: Well, yeah, I mean, I've played her in Eastbourne the week before and she was in great shape. I see why she's the favorite. She won here so many times. In my opinion, she played well. 
 You know, coming to a tournament, yeah, you're favorite, but you have to fight really hard to win the tournament. It's not like you come here and it's sure that the tournament is yours, you know. 
 And, yeah, they've been away for a long time, but I think they are still the champions that they are. I don't see that they're a lower level or something like that. 

 Q. Venus today was a good as ever?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: Well, I don't know. I don't know how to answer that. I think I played well today. I think she showed the best that she could. Maybe she can play better, sure, but today she didn't. 

 Q. Why are there no Bulgarian journalists?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: I don't know how to answer you that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT