WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2010
Tsvetana Pironkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. ZVONAREVA/T. Pironkova
  3-6, 6-3, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. How did you feel when you game started today, walking onto the Centre Court, semifinal at Wimbledon?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: Yeah, I felt pretty good. I felt confident. I started really well. 
 But, you know, Vera started to play amazingly in the second set and in the third one. So, yeah.

 Q. Did you still feel in the third set you could get back into the game?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: Yeah, I tried my best. I tried every point, every game. But she was playing very aggressive and she was pushing me all the time, and I just couldn't do it. 

 Q. Were you aware that no unseeded player had ever got to a final? 
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: Actually, no, I didn't know that. 

 Q. What will you learn from this experience?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: Well, that's a huge experience for me. Reaching the semifinals in Wimbledon, it's like a dream to me. Of course I wanted to go to the finals, but I guess didn't happen this year. 
 So, uhm, I learned a lot. I learned that you just have to play relaxed. You just have to go for every point, to fight, you know, never give up. Yeah, it's a very good experience for me. 

 Q. Your ranking has now improved dramatically because of these last two weeks. You've been around the same mark before. What do you need to do now to progress further down the rankings? 
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: Yeah, there are many things that I need to improve in my game to progress more, like I need to be more consistent during the match. I need to stay aggressive all the time, and, of course, try to put my first serve more in the court. 
 There are many things that I should work, and I will do it with pleasure. Now I have lots of motivation, so I'll be happy to work. 

 Q. In the past you've had some good moments, but there have been many struggles, too. You have this incredible result here. Why and how do you think you were able to reach the semis at Wimbledon?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: I really don't know how to answer that question, you know. I just played. Went on the court trying to play for every point. With every opponent is different, of course. 
 Going to the first match I just wanted to win the first game, if you know what I mean. And then on and on in the match, I just played point by point. 

 Q. Between your quarterfinal win and today, what sort of coverage have you had at home that you've heard about?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: I heard it was a huge coverage. It was the top news everywhere. I'm really happy that I make my home people happy, because this is a great success for my country, for the Bulgarian tennis. 
 And, yeah, I'm very happy about that. 

 Q. Are you happy to be a role model for young women in Bulgaria because of your high profile this week?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: Well, yeah, of course. It's good for the young players to have someone to look up. Now with this result, maybe I'm a good example right now. So, yeah. 

 Q. You were in such good control in the first set. Fairly early in the second things got out of hand a little bit. What was the turn in the match?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: Well, as I said, she started to play a lot more aggressively and she started to push me back. Also my first serve, I couldn't put it in the court as much as the first set. And that gave me a lot of trouble, I think. 
 Yeah, I think that's pretty much it. 

 Q. Did you think you were in the final after the first set maybe?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: No. No. Not even close. One set is like an eternity, you know. 

 Q. Are there any grass courts back home? 
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: No. We don't have any courts, any grass courts. 

 Q. So the first time you played on grass was... 
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: Was I think five years ago at Roehampton at the qualifyings here. 

 Q. You said Wimbledon was like a religion. Talk about that. Is it a good religion? Is it too demanding? What are your thoughts? 
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: Well, yeah, of course I meanted that it is something that you look when you are a kid and you say, This is my dream. This would be my biggest success if I can only step on those courts, if you know what I mean. 
 And, yeah, I have lots of respect for this tournament. Now that I played so well here, makes me incredibly happy.

 Q. Were you worried at one point that you might not have a place to stay here in London? Talk about the problem, how the embassy helped you. 
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: Yeah, I was really worried at one point. After my second match I left my hotel. There was no place that I could stay because the hotels at this time of the year are very busy. I tried hotels, and no one had rooms. 
 Then I called the president of our tennis federation. I told him, Okay, I don't have a hotel; can you help me? He said, Yeah, yeah, of course, I'll try. 
 He called the embassy here. They were really kind, really, you know, supportive. They said, Of course. No problem. They gave us one apartment in one beautiful area here in London, South Kensington I think it's called. 
 So we stayed there for almost 10 days now. 

 Q. So next year will you do the same and just book a hotel for a few days or the full fortnight?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: I'll try to book the hotel for the whole stay just to avoid these kind of problems. 

 Q. Who were your own idols growing up watching Wimbledon? Was there anyone specific?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: Yeah, I admire a lot Steffi Graf. Also Andre Agassi. I love the way he plays. And characters like John McEnroe, Jimmy Connors, they're just amazing. 

 Q. Have you met any of those yet?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: No, I haven't met them personally. I've just seen them around. 

 Q. What do you think Vera's strengths were? How good a chance do you think she might have in the final? 
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: All of her strokes were really powerful: forehand, backhand. She made very good net approaches. Her serve was very consistent, also. So I think she did a very good performance today. 
 And, of course, she has a chance for the finals. I don't know who is she playing yet, but I think, yeah, she has all of the chances. 

 Q. What will be your tournaments now until the US Open? Do you know?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: The next tournament I will play probably in Palermo, and after that there are a few more tournaments here in Europe, Istanbul, Copenhagen. And I'll play maybe New Haven before the US Open. 

 Q. Will you get into Montréal with your ranking?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: Probably yes, but I am not sure I will play the tournament. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT