US OPEN
September 9, 2020
Tsvetana Pironkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. WILLIAMS/T. Pironkova
4-6, 6-3, 6-2
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. Congratulations on a great tournament.
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Thank you.
Q. My question is just as a viewer kind of watching the match, it really felt like you were in control as you got up a set and then up a break, and I was curious what your thoughts were as Serena kind of started to get into the match from then on?  What were your thoughts from the other side of the net?
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Yeah, definitely the first set I think I was in control of the match.  I was doing all kinds of shots, and everything went in my way.
But, you know, I was expecting it's not going to last forever (smiling).  I was expecting that she's going to try different things and she's going to put more power in her shots, and that's what she did.
Her serve, obviously it's incredible weapon in tennis terms.  There were a lot less unforced errors in the second set, and in the third set it was, like, no errors at all.
Q. In the match, how did you adjust your strategy?  I saw you coming to the net more.  Did you change your strategy to go with the changes Serena made?
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Well, I was trying different things all the time, but it's very hard to resist against a strength like that.
I'm not sure how many miles an hour was her serve, but it felt like a bomb at one point.  I don't know how many aces she made, but they felt quite a lot, as well.
I think I tried everything.  Of course I had my chances in the second set when I was up a break.  My serve didn't hold so well there.  But at the same time I also kind of started feeling a bit tired.  Still, was fighting through the end of the match, but I was a bit short, I guess.
Q. Did you expect such a great tournament, fantastic tournament, and believe that you if you keep doing, you would be more famous than Grigor Dimitrov in Bulgaria?
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   (Smiling.)  Well, coming here, I didn't expect -- of course I had no expectations at all.  I was just happy that I have this opportunity.
Of course I had my doubts coming to my first match, but things started to work well for me.  I played well.  I was feeling well.  I was feeling confident.  So I did everything I can to use this opportunity to the max and to try to get the furthest that I can, and I think I did a good job with that.
As for the famousness in Bulgaria, I think we are both pretty recognizable already.  People know me from before, as well.  So I'm not trying to compare (smiling).
Q. Thanks for coming back to compete at a Grand Slam.  Congrats for this great performance at the US Open.  You are one of the biggest ambassadors to this sport in Bulgaria.  What is the message to the Bulgarian fans and tennis players, mostly the kids, of your fantastic run at this Open?
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Well, I guess the message would be to always believe in yourself, because that's actually the most important thing, I guess.  When you go into a match, everyone is prepared physically, but then I guess the match is decided from the mental part.  You have to be really prepared in that.
Self-belief, a lot of work, a lot of dedication, of course, and I guess that's a good combination (smiling).
Q. You have had an incredible career, and you have been around for quite a long time and done some amazing things.  I'm curious to know, in your own opinion, because of the fact that this was so unexpected and because of the fact that you're now a mother, would you say that this is the most special moment of your career?
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Definitely one of the most special moments in my career, but, you know, I'm not trying to compare them, because before I have also had my very strong moments like the semifinal in Wimbledon, like the title in Sydney, like the quarterfinal in Wimbledon and Roland Garros.
So it's quite a long journey, and it's been amazing.  It still is.  I just feel privileged to be here and to be able to, you know, play my favorite sport in such a big arena.  So it's amazing.
Q. As you look ahead, now that you have had this ten days, does what happened in New York change anything in terms of your expectations of what a comeback looks like for you going forward?
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   "Expectations," yeah, that is a special word that I don't really like.  So I guess there will be more expectations after this tournament, for sure, but whether I put them on myself or not, I think I will not.
I will try not to, because I know for sure that's what help me here is just go in the court and try to enjoy it as much and to play my best tennis carefree.  Going to try to keep it that way, I hope.
Q. You seemed to play more aggressively in this match than you did in the previous matches in the Open.  Was that your game plan going into the match?
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Well, no, I really didn't have a game plan.  I usually decide how to play when I go on the court.
Obviously if you're not aggressive enough, you wouldn't have a chance against a player with so much power like Serena.  So, yes, I did try to be more aggressive, but at the same time I was trying to have a variety in my game, trying to do some dropshots, change the rhythm a little bit.
It did help until a certain point, but going into the match, she felt more and more, I guess, secure with her game.  She was going after her shots.  Her serve was working.
Yeah, she definitely played like a champion like the champion she is.
Q. I wanted to ask about your experience returning this time as a mom.
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Well, it is different.  Of course I would love to have my child with me, but because of the circumstances, we decided it's better, it's safer for him to just be at home for these two weeks, which has been challenging, of course.
But in other ways, living in the bubble has been fine.  I expected it to be maybe more challenging, but, no, it's okay, like we had everything.  We have been tested regularly.
If I have to compare it with the tournaments that I played before in my career, it's not really that much more different, because obviously when you're at the tournament you kind of do your own bubble and you live in the hotel and go to the courts and that's pretty much it.
Of course, you can have more variety, but it's not something you're gonna struggle for that much.  It's been an amazing experience these two weeks for me here.
Q. This was such a different thing, coming back to play in the bubble, as you mentioned, and then with no fans in the stand, nothing like you had been accustomed to before you stopped playing.  Emotionally, psychologically, do you think that might have had an effect on your performance?
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Well, it is definitely different.  You know, not having the fans here, that's not something you can imagine before you experience it.
Of course we would love to have the fans.  I mean, the atmosphere would be totally different, I guess.  But, you know, having this opportunity, I was just trying to focus on the things as they are and not really complain what's here and what's not, so I think I did a good job adjusting, yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT