US OPEN
September 7, 2020
Tsvetana Pironkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  T. PIRONKOVA/Alize Cornet
 6-4, 6-7, 6-3
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. Talk about the match, how you were able to come back after that match point in the second.  What were you able to do to get the win in three sets?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Yeah, it was pretty tough that I didn't close the match in two sets.  I realized I have to change something in order to survive this match, and I thought that I would start to play more aggressive so the points could be shorter.
 I managed to do that, and it paid off.
 Q. Are you able to get an ice bath on-site?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   No, unfortunately.  No.  I can do it in my room later.  I need to take the bus now, which takes an hour to get to the hotel, and then I have, like, three hours of treatment, I have treatment, I have massage, and then the ice bath.
 Yeah, I'm set.
 Q. This is the first time you have won back-to-back matches on hard court since Sydney, that you won?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Is it?  I don't know.
 Q. Which seems pretty impressive.
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   I haven't really thought about that.  As I said on the court, it's really unbelievable that I took it this far, and I have been so, what's the word -- that I actually managed to win four matches, and especially the last one which lasted I think about three hours.
 So at this point, that is quite an achievement for me.
 Q. You don't have your son here, but I believe you do have family here with your brother, correct, as coach?  How special is it, even though you don't have your son here, but to have family here with your brother?  Describe your relationship between you and your brother.
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Yeah, I have a great relationship with my brother.  He's actually the person that I play tennis the most with, like he has been my hitting partner ever since day one when we were kids.  We have been playing together all the time, so he knows me very well.  Not only on the personal level but also on a professional one.
 He's a great support also.  He's very calm, like me.  So we are really alike.  So we have a good communication, I think.
 And, yeah, it's special.  For me, my career, I can say is a family thing, because without my family, I probably wouldn't be here.
 Q. Your next one will be a tough one.  What are your thoughts on your match against Serena?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Yeah, definitely a tough one.  I played against Serena a few times.  I haven't won to today.  Playing such a champion, such a legend of the game, it's tremendous honor, obviously.  I'm really looking forward to that match, because I know the feeling is going to be very special.
 Yeah, I will try to do my best, and I can't wait.
 Q. What do you think is different about the way you are playing and competing now physically and mentally from before you left the tour?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Well, when I started playing again, obviously I had like eight months until now, until I started.  I worked on a lot, a lot of things.  I really worked a lot on my serve.  Obviously on my groundstrokes.
 Obviously mentally it's very different for me now, because as I mentioned in the previous days, I'm not really putting that much pressure on myself.  I mostly enjoy the game, and I do believe the game is really -- that's the point of that game, primary, to enjoy it.
 Yeah, I think all that work really paid off.  I also have a conditioning coach, fitness coach, that I worked a lot with.  So, yeah, I guess that gives the result (smiling).
 Q. Was there anything in mothering and being a mother that has helped you, one thing, you think, for your tennis game?  And also, just what makes Serena just so tough?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Well, everything in mothering I guess it's helped me.  Obviously you become a different person.  You don't focus on yourself that much anymore, like your focus is primary on your child.  And I guess that's a good thing (smiling).  I'm a lot more organized, as well.  Mentally more, I have more mental endurance, also.
 Physically I know my body better.  And, yeah, everything, like I cannot really start pointing each thing out.
 And about Serena, well, she's obviously a legend.  Physically she's super strong.  Mentally she's super strong.  She has it all.
 Q. I know you have a tough task ahead.  What, if anything, would you change about your strategy going forward?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Well, I'm not sure I can say it now.  I usually do my strategy when I go on the court, when I hit few balls against my opponent, when I check this and that, and then I actually form my strategy.
 So I will just do that with my next match.
 Q. This is the farthest you have gotten at the US Open.  What is your favorite Grand Slam?  What does it mean to get to the quarterfinals at the US Open?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Well, at this point it means a lot to be here after three years of absence.  And this being my first tournament, having this great result, is something very special.
 And obviously US Open holds a special place in my heart.  I have played good here before.  I reached last 16, I'm not sure, 2013 maybe.
 All the slams are very special for all the players, I believe.  Obviously Wimbledon is one of my favorite slams, as I did very well there, as well.  There is something about it in the atmosphere, in the surface, on the smell of the grass, wearing all white, and all the traditions just kind of make it special.
 Q. Your brother, his name and is he older or younger brother and by how many years?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   My brother's name is Encho Pironkov.  He's four years older than me.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT