US OPEN
September 3, 2020
Tsvetana Pironkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  T. PIRONKOVA/G. Muguruza
 7-5, 6-3
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. Today you talked a little bit on court about your need to kind of get rhythm in the match.  I wanted to know your thoughts on playing two players in this comeback tournament who hit the ball hard, give you the opportunity to get into points.
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Yeah, that was a bit tough in the beginning.  The surface is also really fast, so it takes time to adjust with each and every player because every player is different.  It appears they hit really hard, but one player hits hard, the other player not so much.  It really takes time.
 I think I did a pretty good job adjusting.  It took few games, yes, but I was happy with the result.
 Q. In general what are your thoughts of now moving forward in this tournament?  You said you don't have any expectations.  Here you are in the third round.  What are your thoughts on the tournament now?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Well, before everything I'm really, really happy to continue in the tournament and playing such players.  Coming from three year of absence on the tour, you always have your doubts.  Right now my results actually make me really happy because it shows that I did the right things preparing for this comeback.  That makes me proud.
 Q. What does it mean to you to defeat a Wimbledon champion?  She won the last Wimbledon you played.  What does it mean to get this win over Garbine?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   It obviously means a lot to me, especially now.  But in the same time I always knew I had it in me because it's not the first time I win a top player.  I been on the tour for almost 15 years, and I had many occasions where I played against the best of the best players.  I also scored quite a few wins over them.
 I guess I was mentally prepared.  It's not something super new.  In the same time I was feeling well, I was moving well, I was hitting the ball well.  Why not win?
 Q. When you were preparing to come back, in the three years that you were away, how much were you paying attention to the tour?  How much were you paying attention to how tennis had changed from when you finished?  Did that inform how you felt you needed to prepare as you came back?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Well, I always followed the news around the tour obviously, especially the Grand Slams.  I always watched those.  But I really took some time off away from tennis in all aspects.  There were times where I didn't really follow all the tournaments, just a few ones.
 That was kind of I guess I just needed to distance myself a little bit for about two years.  Little by little I started really missing the tour, started watching more tournaments, started to follow the players.  I kind of started to make plans in my head looking at the calendar, which tournament would suit me best (smiling).
 Yeah, at one point I was like, Okay, let's take this opportunity, let's take this chance, just try to do my best.  The result right now, as I said in the previous question, it really makes me proud and happy.
 Q. Today against Muguruza, what do you think was the key to the match?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   I was trying to be in the point as much as I can, to put the ball in the court as much as I can.  In the beginning, that was really difficult because she was serving great, she didn't miss a serve.  She made a lot of aces.  Little by little I kind of figured out how to return those serves, and that really helped me.
 My serve was pretty solid, so that was huge help as well.  Also I was moving pretty well.  All of those things combined I guess led to that result.
 Q. How has your perspective changed, the priorities now obviously with your son?  What is his name?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   My son's name is Alexander.  Everything change.  Your priorities have nothing to do with what they did before.  Nothing is the same really.  Right now I'm just happy to be playing.  Having the opportunity for him to watch me also makes me really happy.
 I don't know how to really explain it.  It's just great to be playing without that extra pressure that I had on my myself before.  Before it was like almost life-and-death situation for me to win a match.  Right now it's not really like that.  It's before all just enjoyment to be on the court.
 Q. Is it better now than it was before?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Well, I don't know.  Before that I also had my moments.  It's just I guess I'm a lot more mature now.  I kind of appreciate all of the opportunities and the experience that I have now.  I guess that's what makes it better.
 Q. There are several mothers playing at the US Open this week.  Could you explain the challenges and joys of raising a young child while also competing at the highest level in tennis?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   It's definitely not easy.  I mean, it's just my first tournament back.  Obviously there's a lot of challenges, but they are priorities in the first place.  That would always be my son and my family and their health and happiness.  I would never make a compromise with that.
 But, you know, if you make a good schedule, if you really have the right motivation, I guess you can combine the two things, motherhood and being a professional tennis player.  It makes a lot of work, but everything takes work, so...
 Q. What is the toughest part about returning after being away for three years?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   At this point for me the toughest part is the physical condition.  I haven't had a chance to play another tournament before this one.  Having few consecutive matches are really a big challenge for me.  Obviously I have few aches and pains that I'm going to repair for my next match.
 Yeah, I would say physically the challenge is quite big.
 Q. Your forehand, it's well-known, your forehand slice, gives people problems.  It's a unique shot.  How did that come about?  When did you start doing that?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   I don't know if there was a particular time that I started doing.  I developed my game in every possible aspects.  I think it's not just about the technical part of the game, really there are a lot more things in a tennis player, in a tennis match.  It's really also the mental part of it, the physical part of it, technical part.  Once you combine those, then you get the momentum form, if I can say it that way.
 I try not to focus on good parts, weak parts of my technique.  I just try to combine everything and to have a good outcome.
 Q. On March 14th, it was announced that you were returning to the tour.
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Correct.
 Q. The pandemic hit that day, just about that time here in the States.  Indian Wells was closed.  Did you feel a little bit as if the world was saying to you maybe you shouldn't be doing this?  Did you have to take into consideration your family when making the decision to come to the U.S. for the US Open and Cincinnati?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Yeah, for sure, I really run everything through my family first, like I always care about their counsel.  They support me tremendously.  I wouldn't be doing this if I didn't have their love and support.
 Yeah, when I announced I was planning to go back on tour, really the next day almost all the tournaments were starting to get canceled.  I did have my doubts, like, whether it's the right decision or the right time.
 But it turned out to be the right decision, I guess, because it actually gave me more time to prepare, like maybe five or six months more to prepare.  Obviously I had the chance to be straight in the main draw here, which probably I wouldn't have if it wasn't for the pandemic.  That is a huge, huge opportunity, I would say.
 Q. The Maleeva family, how much of an influence have they been on your life and career in tennis?
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Sorry, I didn't hear you.
 Q. Maleeva family.
 TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   I know very well Maggie because when I started playing, she was still on tour.  She gave me good advices here and there.  We have a really good friendly relationship.
 Having that example, of course, it always helps with your confidence and for you to have an example that it can actually be done.  Coming from a small country in the east Europe, you need to have those examples.  So definitely it was helpful to know them.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT