ROLAND GARROS
May 31, 2016
Tsvetana Pironkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








T. PIRONKOVA/A. Radwanska
2-6, 6-3, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. We have always thought of you as sort of a grass court wonder, so are you surprised to be in the quarterfinals of this tournament?
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: Well, yeah, I could say I'm surprised, but I think coming to the tournament I was in a very good shape.  My results in the previous tournaments didn't show it, but I was feeling good.
Every time someone from the media or my friends asked me, How are you feeling?  I was like, It's strange, but I feel very good.  (Smiling.)
So obviously the time came, and right now I showed that actually I'm feeling in a good form.
Q. Coming into today down a set and 3-0, so what was the thinking the last couple of days leading into this, and how do you feel like you were able to turn it around with such a deficit?
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: Yeah, obviously I thought about -- I thought a lot about the match, because, yeah, the score was a set and 3-Love.  But it was actually a tight match, because the first few games I think we played for 40 minutes.  I had like a game ball in each one of them.
The last three games went so fast.  I had some troubles with my leg.  I was not 100% in the beginning of the second set.
So obviously the rain kind of helped me there, because I needed that break to see the physios.  It was longer than I expected, the break.  But still, I cannot complain.  It was good for me.
Q. Do you think you could have won that match if it had stayed good weather for another hour on Sunday?  Because she was really dominant?
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: Yeah, she had the momentum there.  She played really, really well.  You never know.  I cannot say; I cannot say no.
Obviously I would have fighted to the end.  And, I don't know.
Q. She was also very upset about playing in the conditions today.  She was saying the tournament organizers should have stopped the play.  Playing in the rain was not acceptable.  How was it for you out there?  Did you ever want them to stop?
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: It was kind of the same for me because I also played in the rain.  The conditions were the same for me, as well.  I'm not a player who likes slow courts, heavy balls, obviously, but I kind of tried to, you know, leave the fact that it's raining out of my mind and just focus on each and every point.
Obviously that worked.
Q. Did you sense her getting frustrated with the conditions?  Did you sense that she was getting angry continuing to play in the rain, as you won 10 straight games?
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: Right.  No, actually I was so concentrated on my feelings and my game that I didn't actually pay attention to her reactions.  She didn't show any reactions except when it was 4-Love, because then it started drizzling a little bit harder.
But that was just for like five minutes, and then it was the same like it was for the past two sets.  So it wasn't perfect, but that's the way it is.
Q. Do you think that these were outstanding conditions in the sense that you guys kept playing, or are they conditions you have played through before at a WTA or ITF event?
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: Well, it happened before, of course.  We have played in all sorts of conditions.  Usually if the court is not fit for play, like if it's slippery, they would cancel the match right away.
But today the court was still hanging in, it was okay, we could have played, and so we did.
Q. You said that you normally don't like heavy, wet conditions.  Once you started to reel off a few games today, what did you realize was working particularly well for you against her today?
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: Well, the first few games were tough.  I mean, I think I had a break point in the first set for her or something.  It was tough.  I needed to play for each ball.  I needed to pay attention for each important moment in that match.
I think I did that pretty well.  I took all the important moments pretty much.  Obviously I was trying to be more aggressive because I realized against her that would be the better strategy.  It worked for me today and I got the win.
Q. The ball bounces low at Wimbledon; the ball bounces low today because it's damp and heavy and everything.  Is that a good thing for you?  Do you like a low bounce?
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: Hmm.  Didn't think about that (Smiling.)  Yeah.  Obviously, I do.  But, again, courts were heavy; balls were heavy.  Not my thing, really.
I cannot complain.  I mean, it's a great win for me any way you look at it, so I would not say a bad thing.
Q. Do you play differently on clay than you do on grass?  Do you have very specific clay-court tactics and very specific grass-court tactics, or do you just play the same?
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: No, I play the same, pretty much, in all surfaces.  I usually just need more time to get used to the certain surface.  For me it's kind of slow process.  I need few tournaments to do that, usually.  I played two or three before this one.  I had good matches.  Didn't have great wins, but it was good tennis.
Q. Thoughts on your next match against Samantha Stosur.
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: Yeah, she's very tough opponent.  I think our balance right now is 4-1 for her.  It's not great, I know.
But it wasn't great with Radwanska, as well.  It was 9-2, actually.  But, you know, I'm happy that I'm playing on this stage of the tournament, and I'm going to do all my best to continue.
Q. You said you were feeling fit and that you were playing well before this tournament.  Was there a certain match this tournament that made you feel like, you know, you could make a deeper run than normal here?  Or this one?  I don't know.
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA: Well, it started very well for me.  I had a great win in the first round against Sara Errani.  I played really well, and that match showed me that I have the chance and I should fight for it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT