APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 14, 2015
Tsvetana Pironkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







T. PIRONKOVA/B. Zahlavova‑Strycova
  6‑4, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You look remarkably fresh when you played three matches more than everyone else.   Recovery must be good. 
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   I'm trying after every match.   From match one I been trying to recover the maximum I can.   I think I'm doing a good job.
We have a great team here from the WTA massage therapists and physio therapists.   Nothing is missing. 

Q.   How excited are you to be in the semifinals again?
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Wow, super excited.   To be honest, I didn't really believe that I could go this far again because I had to start from quallies again, which obviously is a very hard thing to do considering the quallies nowadays is not like it was 20 years ago, let's say.
It's also a very strong tournament.   So I'm incredibly happy that I'm here today winning again, so I will just try to do it again.

Q.   Were you surprised that maybe you would get your wildcard before coming in here?
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Well, I was hoping that I would get.   I applied but obviously didn't get it.   I was a bit disappointed about that.   Not a bit, a lot disappointed obviously.
But, you know, that's something in the past.   At one point I just said, Okay, focus on the tournament.   It is what it is, so just play.

Q.   Has the experience of last year helped you? 
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Yeah, I think so.   I know the people; I know the court; I know the surface; I know the surface. 
I feel like almost home here.   I think that all helps.   So, yeah.

Q.   What makes Sydney feel like home for you? 
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Well, obviously very positive emotions from last year.   I spend few weeks here.   Last year wasn't my first time in Sydney.   I been here few times before that, so it's very familiar to me now.   It's a beautiful city.

Q.   Did you sense your opponent was tired a little bit tonight? 
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   No, I cannot say that.   I don't think so.   She played well.   Again, I'm very happy that I outplayed her.   I think I played a really good match tonight.

Q.   Eight wins again to win the whole thing. 
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Well, six down, two to go.

Q.   Are you watching tonight's match?   Going to recover and watch from the hotel?   You could be playing Kvitova again. 
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Well, if I could, I would love to watch some of the match.   But, you know, I have to recover.   I have some procedures I have to do now. 
By the time I'm done they'll probably be done, too.   So we'll see. 

Q.   When you got here this week were you thinking, You know what?   The same thing is going to happen.   Be you confident immediately when I get on the court. 
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   No, not really.   Coming here, I try to focus for each individual match.   You know, all the matches were very, very hard, especially the first one in quallies.   I kind of played three hours then in the heat. 
I was very happy that I got through that.   Match after match I just focused on each of them. 

Q.   What are your goals for this year?   Can you tell us a little bit about what you hope to achieve by the end of 2015?
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   I hope that could be more consistent this year.   I think I played a good season last year.   I had good matches, good wins.
I been working hard in the off‑season trying to be more consistent, so that's my goal. 

Q.   Not getting a wildcard here, has that spurred you on? 
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Sorry, I didn't quite get that. 

Q.   Not receiving a wildcard this year, has that made you more determined to win here again?
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Oh, yeah, you can say that.   It's good that after each win I feel better and better, you know.
That was obviously a motivation, because when I came here and even when I was back home, everybody was saying, Oh, you're going to get a wildcard.   Don't worry.
I was like, I don't think so.   It the doesn't look like it.   So everybody was shocked, you know.   But it's the decision that the tournament made, so I will go for it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT