APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 12, 2015
Tsvetana Pironkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







T. PIRONKOVA/F. Pennetta
  6‑3, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Thoughts on the match you just played.
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   I think I played a great match today.   I felt very good on court.   I think we both did. 
It was very entertaining match for the spectators.   Definitely hard. 
I'm glad I could finish it only in two sets, so pretty good. 

Q.   Is it one of your biggest wins since you won here last year?   Flavia is seeded and not far outside the top 10. 
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Well, no.   Throughout the year, throughout last year I had big wins also here and there.
This one is definitely a big win for me obviously.   It makes me very happy that I did it here. 

Q.   And you have won 12 matches in a row in Sydney.   What's it about this place that brings out your best tennis?
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Well, I obviously love it.   I have very nice memories from last year.   I like the surface very much.   I like the people around here.   I like the city, which I think it's important for every player to enjoy the whole experience.
So I am, and I feel very, very good here.

Q.   Have you spent much time in the city?   Done anything fun? 
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Well, mostly I spend time around the shops, you know, the most.   You guys have very good shopping around here, so I enjoy that. 

Q.   You went through qualifying.   I was wondering if you applied for a wildcard, and your thoughts on not actually getting one. 
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Yeah, I did apply for wildcard, but I got declined.   I was just as shocked as most of the people, because, you know, coming here everybody ask me that question.
How come you're not getting a wildcard into the main draw?   This is something that's a question that probably you should ask the tournament director, because I really‑‑ for me it was a shocker actually.

Q.   So was it upsetting for you? 
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Kind of, but that was past.   You know, once I came to the tournament I had a different mindset.   I was like, Okay, you're playing quallies.   Just go out on the court and forget about what's happening. 
Obviously you're getting a wildcard.   Get over it and try your best.   That's what I'm doing.

Q.   Obviously coming through qualifying last year seemed to do quite well for you.   Some players like the match practice.   Is it sometimes easier coming into the main draw with three wins under your belt or starting fresh in the main draw?
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Well, in my experience, for me, it's obviously good to play few extra matches, especially in the beginning of the year. 
So, yeah, those three matches that I played in quallies definitely helped me to play on the level that I played today definitely.
What else can I say?   I think the four matches so far were perfectly played by me, so I cannot be anything else but happy about that. 

Q.   Anything in particular you worked on in the off‑season?   You seem to have a very good backhand. 
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   (Smiling.)   I work on a lot of stuff actually.   My backhand was good last year as well.   You know, there is always something you have to work on. 
Obviously with me that would be to continue improving my groundstrokes, my movement.   The serve, I think I'm serving pretty good here.   That was something that I was working on.

Q.   Playing Madison Keys next.   How are you feeling about that match?
TSVETANA PIRONKOVA:   Actually I hear it from you.   I didn't know I play against her. 
Yeah, very strong opponent.   I think she's very good right now, in good form, I mean, and one of the players to look out for.
So, you know, I'm just going to go out there and do my best, and hopefully I'm going to win. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT