CFP NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP
January 7, 2019
Dabo Swinney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Clemson 44, Alabama 16
DABO SWINNEY: Now that's eating good in the neighborhood.  Daniel's wish is that dad didn't work so far away.  Dad did more than just wish.  Upload your resume on indeed.  Ford postgame show, 2 minutes and 45 seconds away.  What a scene.  Big tough guy, Christian Wilkins, one of the rare northerners on this team.  Comes from Massachusetts, came back only for this moment.  That's what it's about right there, the emotions.  You make a decision to pass on the NFL to chase a dream with your brothers, that's what it's about when it's realized.  Curtain call for the whole offense as Chase Brice is in to mop up, Renfrow will wrap up his Clemson career, the soft side of a big tough guy.  And that is what it's all about.  And their careers don't get any better than that.  Four ACC titles and two National Championships, the Campbell award as the top scholar athlete.  By the way, cool that Chase Brice gets a chance to finish this game off, going back to that Syracuse game, we talked about the mayhem moment for Clemson:  You do all the preparation so you can be ready when your moment arrives.  That's part of the football culture at Clemson, as well.  No doubt about it.  Not a whole lot of people knew much about him.  He stepped up and made those plays.  Good to see Christian Wilkins.  It's good to see a year's worth of emotion that he's letting out right now.  Clemson - 44, Alabama - 16.
Q. There are few coaches in any sport who show more joy than you do.  How do you describe the joy of the moment?
DABO SWINNEY: Well, that's been my word all year.  I've tried to be intentional with that.  For me personally, joy comes from focusing on Jesus other than yourself, and I mean, very few people -- there's so many great coaches that are so serving of a moment like this and never get the chance to experience it, and to get to do it once and now to get to do it again, it's just a blessing, and it's just simply the grace of the good Lord to allow us to experience something like this.  I'm so happy for our team, our fans, our administration, our former players.  You know, I know we're not supposed to be here, and I'm not supposed to be here, but we are, and I am, and how about them Tigers, man?  I'm so proud of our guys.  These seniors, we beat Notre Dame and Alabama, we left no doubt, and we walk off this field tonight as the first 15-0 team in college football history.  All the credit, all the glory goes to the good Lord, number one, and number two, to these young people.  When you get a young group of people that believe, are passionate, they love each other, they sacrifice, they're committed to a purpose, you'd better look out, great things can happen, and that's what you saw tonight.
Q. After four games you made a decision.  You chose Trevor Lawrence to become your quarterback.  What did you see then that came true tonight?
DABO SWINNEY: Well, I mean, he was the best player, and that's not a knock to dis Kelly Bryant -- and I love Kelly Bryant, what a great player he is.  But my job is to make decisions that put the team in the best possible path to win, and after four games he was the best player.  I think you saw that, and in fact, I think when I got here, Ollie's first question to me when I got here was, hey, what are you going to do, Tua has never lost a game, and I said, well, I don't think Trevor has, either.  I'm just going to work on my guy here and see if we can walk off this field and keep our guy undefeated.
We bent a little but we never broke.  We punched back.  This group had the eye of the Tiger tonight.  Listen, Alabama, this is the most amazing champion ever, the University of Alabama.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT