ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 2, 2011
Dabo Swinney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


   THE MODERATOR: We now have Clemson head coach Dabo Swinney. 
 COACH SWINNEY: Good to be with you guys today. Obviously coming off a tough loss for us and we don't have a game this Saturday, but the open date for us has really worked out well. We have a lot of guys that we have got to get healthy and get everybody kind of recharged here for a tough November coming up. 
 But you know, I like where our team is right now. I like how they have responded. And going back to work on Monday and looking forward to getting back out there again and obviously getting ready for a tough Wake Forest team that's having a very good season. 
 With that, I'll take your questions. 

 Q. I just wanted to ask what the last two weeks in the running game, they have not been as efficient, is that Andre being banged up or is there something else going on? 
 COACH SWINNEY: No, well obviously it was a problem in Atlanta. We didn't have Andre. But previous week versus North Carolina, we really, to be honest with you, we did not really try to run the ball a whole lot. We felt like that we were going to have to throw the football against those guys based on their personnel, the things they presented, opportunities. 
 You always are finding the best way to attack the opponent. And that proved to be the case. We threw the ball very, very well against North Carolina and then this past week, we wanted to be able to run the ball out. Actually that was our plan going in. And we -- first half, we had ten rushes for 54 yards which is not bad, but just the game really got away from us quickly. And we probably got away from the run a little bit too early. 
 But you know, you get three touchdowns down to those guys and their style of play with how they grind the clock, we got -- we had to kind of go more to throwing the football. Certainly played more to their strengths.

 Q. And forgive me, I may probably have addressed this, but is the week off going to help Andre?
 COACH SWINNEY: Yeah, he'll be fine. He'll be fine. And he got better each day last week. It was just he just couldn't -- he just couldn't go full speed and we went with the two freshmen. It was a good experience for those guys. They both made for some critical mistakes. The two fumbles were costly. But you know, they are young guys and I believe in them and they are going to learn from it and get better, no doubt about it.
 But we'll have him back full speed and ready to go when we play Wake. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT