COLLEGE FOOTBALL PLAYOFF SEMIFINAL AT THE CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: CLEMSON VS OKLAHOMA
December 31, 2015
Dabo Swinney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Clemson - 37, Oklahoma - 17
Q. Going into the halftime with the interception, what turned the momentum?
DABO SWINNEY: No, no, we were moving the ball, we weren't concerned about that.  I was just concerned about finishing our drives in the red zone.  They weren't stopping -- we had 305 yards, we just weren't getting pay dirt.  So just kind of cleaning that up and fixing some things defensively.  We were stopping the run but we were getting our butt kicked on the back end with some big plays, so I was just proud of our team.  It was a four-quarter game.  We wanted to dominate the third quarter and put it away in the fourth quarter, and that's the way it went.
Q. That fourth quarter stop in the second half, is that where the tides turned?
DABO SWINNEY: Well, there were a lot of big plays.  Defensively there was none bigger than that one, fourth-and-1, and they tried the direct snap and we stoned them at the line.  The pick by B.J., the pick by Ben, that's what it's all about.  You just keep playing.  You just -- you know, you play with heart.  These guys got a ton of it, man, and it just has shown all year long.  I know this:  They've earned everything they've gotten, and tonight they were the better team, and I thought we were the better team coming in it, but you've got to go earn it, and that's what they did.  They did it for four quarters, and man, I'm just so proud of them.  I'm so happy for Clemson.  34 years since they've played for a National Championship, and the last time they won was right here on this field.  Four years ago we got our butts kicked right here on this field, and to come back four years later and play like we did and know that we're going to go have a chance to play for the National Championship against another great team, I mean, our hats off to this program and to our team and to the heart of this team.
Q. You've got a chance to go 15-0, never been done before.  How does that feel?
DABO SWINNEY: Well, day one, August 3rd, when we started the season, I gave them shirts that said dream the dream, and I said 15 for 15, with the message being let's make them print 15 tickets this year, somehow, some way, and tonight coming in, I said, hey, tonight we make that dream a reality.  You're four quarters away, and my gosh, they got to print a 15th ticket to see the Tigers now.  It's been a great 2015.  We're going to ring in the new year tonight, I promise you.
Q. Does it matter who you have next?
DABO SWINNEY: We don't care who we play.  We ain't worried about that.  We're going to worry about us.  We'll get back, staff will start back on Sunday, the team will come back on Monday.  We'll get a good plan together, load up, go to the desert and see if we can play four good quarters out there, but man, I just am so happy.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT