COLLEGE FOOTBALL PLAYOFF SEMIFINAL AT THE CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: CLEMSON VS OKLAHOMA
December 31, 2015
Dabo Swinney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Clemson - 37, Oklahoma - 17   
 Q.  Dabo, what does 14-0 sound like to you?  
DABO SWINNEY: It sounds like it's been seven years, and it's been a fun journey.  God is good.  All the glory to God.  That's all I can say.  It's been unbelievable.  Been a long time.  Never been with a 14-0 team, so it sounds good.   
But our team has shown heart, had guts all year long, and it's amazing to me that, you know, I told them, you ain't favored to win the damn game, but we ain't no underdog.  Everybody out there, nobody believes in this team except these guys, and they just got a great heart, and it showed tonight.   
I thought we physically won in the trenches.  That's what this game is all about is just beating the guy in front of you, and we got off to a good start.  We just weren't scoring in the red zone.  We got that fixed in the second half.  Defense rose up in the second half, man, was some huge plays, B.J., Ben Boulware.  All I know is we're going to the Natis.  That's all I know.  We're going to play somebody in Arizona.  God is good, and to God be the glory, that's all I've got to say.   
 Q.  You went into the locker room down at the half, but you came right back out and scored.  What did you say in the locker room at halftime that got your team right?  
DABO SWINNEY: Well, we've just got to clean a few things up.  We had like five drives in a row into the red zone, and we weren't getting touchdowns.  We just needed to clean a few things up.  I was really disappointed that we didn't make a couple of the competitive plays, so we made those competitive plays, just a tremendous second half.  But the thing for us is any time we take it -- we're 51-0 when we take a lead into the fourth quarter, so I said let's go win the third quarter because we know what happens in the fourth quarter, and that's exactly the way it went.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT