COLLEGE FOOTBALL PLAYOFF SEMIFINAL AT THE CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: CLEMSON VS OKLAHOMA
December 30, 2015
Dabo Swinney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DABO SWINNEY: Good morning.  Hope everybody is doing well, enjoying your trip down here.  Looking forward to finally getting to the game tomorrow.  Today is like a normal Friday for us, for a typical week standpoint, so really try to get everybody dialed in and focused on the final details of the plan and kind of do what we do on a typical Friday as far as meetings and game prep, and then what we do tonight, and then get ready to play tomorrow.  But really looking forward to it.   
I know everybody is going to probably ask about the three guys that won't be with us.  You know, when you don't do the right things, there's consequences.  It's just really that simple.  It's not a very complicated matter at all, just got 115 guys, and 112 of them did what's right and three of them didn't.  So they don't have the opportunity -- they forfeit the opportunity and the privilege to be a part of the game.   
I really hate it for them.  They're the ones that really have to deal with the consequences because they're missing out on a great opportunity.  So it's really not anything else much to add to that, other than the fact that I'm really proud of our team, really proud of how these guys have handled themselves.  Again, it's unfortunate that three guys get the headlines, but the headlines aren't about all the other good things that the other 112 guys are doing.  But that's the way society is, too.  Just comes with the territory.   
But we'll be excited about getting our team meeting going this morning and moving on with our day.  Looking forward to playing Oklahoma.  What a great football team.  You know, we've talked and talked and talked.  I'm really not sure what else y'all have to say since we spent an hour together yesterday, but I'll take your questions.   
 Q.  Dabo, now that Cain has been suspended, what's your plan at wide receiver?  How is the two-deep going to look?  
DABO SWINNEY: Charone Peake is our starting wide receiver, so nothing changes there, and Trevion Thompson is the backup, so both of those guys would have played a lot anyway, but Charone Peake is the starter, so really no change.  All those guys are backups.   
 Q.  How does this not become a distraction for the team?  
DABO SWINNEY: Why would it be a distraction?  It doesn't have anything -- Jay Jay McCullough and Lakip and Deon don't have anything to do with Shaq Lawson and how he plays his game, doesn't have anything to do with the rest of those guys.  It's not a distraction at all.  It's a distraction for me because I have to answer questions about three guys that break our rules, and I have to deal with it, but that comes with my job.  Those guys, they're focused on doing what they do.  Has nothing to do with them.   
 Q.  Your offensive line has come along throughout the season, and I know you're pleased with it.  Where would you rate this offensive line coming into this Oklahoma game compared to the one last year?  
DABO SWINNEY: Better.  Not even close.  Way better in every facet.   
 Q.  Wow.  
DABO SWINNEY: More talented, more depth, way more flexibility, more commitment.  I mean, just a better group.  Better chemistry.   
 Q.  When you find some comfort with losing a guy the caliber of Deon Cain, over the course of the season you've had a lot of other wide receivers step up.  Does that help that you've had other guys on the big stage that have produced?  
DABO SWINNEY: It helps that we've got a big roster and we have a lot of good players.  Last time we were down here playing in the stadium, Deon Cain wasn't with us, either.  It just helps that we recruit well and we've got a lot of good players.   
 Q.  Deshaun Watson obviously gets a lot of praise and talk about your offense, but Wayne Gallman is a 1,300-yard rusher.  Could you talk about him and the impact he'll have tomorrow night?  
DABO SWINNEY: Yeah, I think he's -- is he around 1,400 yards?  Yeah, he's 1,400 yards, and he's been a special guy for us.  He's been a workhorse, really.  The combination of he and Deshaun have really given us a great rushing attack, has made us very balanced and very difficult to defend.  It sets up all the other things that come along with our offense, a lot of the big plays flow off of our running game.  But Wayne is just one of those guys that really doesn't say a whole lot, but you notice him all the time.  You hear about how he practices, his attention to detail from a preparation standpoint, and then just how he plays on game day.  I mean, he is a driven -- he had 160-something yards in the second half of our last game.  I mean, he was just relentless.  That's how he is every single day.  Really, really talented player.  Young player.   
 Q.  Can you tell us a little bit about your relationship with Terry Don Phillips and the faith he showed in you seven years ago?  
DABO SWINNEY: Well, I mean, my relationship with Terry Don Phillips started as just an assistant coach when I came to Clemson, and he gave me an opportunity to be an interim.  One of the things that I always tell people is -- because if you know Terry Don, you know he's not a man of many words.  He doesn't say a whole lot.  But the day that he made me the interim and I went into his office really expecting for him to just say, hey, do the best you can do and try to get the next guy to keep you or whatever, but it was -- his message to me was, hey, look, I've watched you for five-and-a-half years, and I think you're ready for this job, and he said, I'd love to see you get the job, but you're going to have to win some games.  He told me that for the next seven weeks I want you to be the head coach.  I don't want you to be the interim head coach.  I want you to do whatever you think you need to do to fix this, was his words, and I'm going to support you.   
And at the end of this, you're going to get an interview, regardless of whether you win one or win them all, you're going to get an interview for this job, and he said, I'm going to hire the best guy for the job.  But I want you to know, I've watched you, and he said, you would be a great fit here.   
So I go into the meeting with one mentality and I come out of the meeting with this empowered attitude and confidence of, let's go.  Just kind of embraced the opportunity.   
I was really shocked by that to be honest with you, because again, you know, he's just kind of an old-school guy.  So I tell people all the time, just be great at whatever you're doing because you never know who's paying attention.  You never know.   
And then to always be ready for your opportunity, and I'm thankful that I was prepared and ready for that moment and had a bunch of good players that rallied around me.  Forever grateful for Terry Don Phillips.  I certainly wouldn't be here.  A lot of people in my life that have helped shape me and provided opportunities for me to be where I am, and he's definitely one of them.  I wouldn't be here without that opportunity.   
 Q.  It was kind of a weird thing with Huegel on the field goals this year but struggled on the extra point, and now with Lakip watching from home, I guess, are you a little concerned about that tomorrow?  
DABO SWINNEY: No, no, we'll just roll with Huegel.   
 Q.  Any update on the three suspended players as far as moving forward and what it means for their careers at Clemson, and then if you guys were to play in the championship game, do you know if they'll be available?  
DABO SWINNEY: Yeah, none of those guys -- those guys have all forfeited their opportunity to be with us for any postseason play.  Ammon is a senior so he's graduated already, and Jay Jay is not a senior but he'll have an opportunity to come back to school next week and he's got a chance to graduate by the summer, and then he'll have an opportunity to move on if he wants to play somewhere else next year, he'll have that opportunity to do that, but he won't be back with us at Clemson.  Deon will have the opportunity to come back to school and rejoin the team at some point if he grows up and does what he needs to do.  If he doesn't, then he won't.  So really pretty simple.   
 Q.  Both quarterbacks are so good at escapability.  Talk about the goal of trying to contain Baker and his ability to keep him from just making plays on his feet outside of the pocket.  
DABO SWINNEY: I'm open for any suggestions that you want to share my way here.  That's easier said than done.  And same thing for them.  Our guys, they're very similar in that regard, that they're both great creators with the ball in their hand.  But Mayfield, and he's a tough guy.  He's not a very big guy, but he is strong, especially with his lower body, really difficult to tackle.  You see a lot of people that you think have him, but they don't have him, and the biggest thing -- somebody was asking me yesterday, what do you worry about the most with him, and you just look at the clock, and it's three seconds, four seconds, five seconds, six seconds.  He just extends plays, and you can't cover guys forever.   
And then there's a lot of plays where the defense really had him, to be honest with you, whoever that opponent was.  They had him.  On the board, it looked great.  But that guy still has to tackle him, and again, that's easier said than done.   
He's a great football player.  He's got great instincts for the game.  He really understands all the nuances of their offense and what they do.  But his ability to create really makes him special.  So our ability to hopefully minimize that and make him kind of play on schedule is going to be a key part of the game.   
 Q.  You said that you felt confident the day you were named the interim coach, that you were empowered.  Was there ever a moment where you thought, what have I gotten into here, am I ready for this, and just how much growth has it taken on your part to go from being the guy who was the interim coach to being the guy who's here today?  
DABO SWINNEY: Well, yeah, there was a moment.  I've talked about that a lot, especially when I go and speak and give my testimony and things like that.  It happened on a Monday, and I'm pretty sure I didn't sleep Monday and Tuesday, and then Wednesday there was just a lot happening in a short amount of time.  I come to the office on Thursday morning.  It was about 5:30 in the morning, and I probably had about two hours of sleep, and just that Wednesday, one of the things that I had done is I had moved -- back then we were in another building and we were all on kind of this thoroughfare hallway, and everybody just kind of walks up and down the hallway, and I tried to stay in that office, but I realized after Tuesday that it just wasn't going to work.  I couldn't get anything done.   
And so I'm going to move just what I needed down there to -- I left my stuff in there but I took what I needed to take and just kind of set up in Coach Bowden's office, where I could have a little bit of privacy to do some work.   
And so I moved in there like Wednesday afternoon or Wednesday night after practice, and so I come in on Thursday morning, and I don't know, I just was overwhelmed that particular morning when I got up.  I was exhausted, and it was dark and I was driving to work, and I always pray when I go to work, and you know, I just had a moment of just, man, like anybody, just -- what have I -- I don't know if I can do this.  I mean, I was just worn out, emotional and all those things.   
But I'll never forget it because -- and this is just how I live my life and it speaks to what I believe in, but I pulled into the parking lot, and I had never parked over in Tommy's spot, obviously.  I always parked down on the left and would walk into the office.  So I pulled around because I had a key right there to that door, and when I pulled into the parking lot and my lights hit the curb, and the curb lit up, and I had just prayed all the way to work that morning driving for just wisdom and confidence and clarity, and my lights hit the curb, and the No. 88 lit up on the curb in that particular parking spot, and that was -- that was really the last moment for me, because it was just kind of -- to me, that was my college number, and it was just like, God was just kind of tapping me on the back, putting his arms around me and saying, listen, I've got you.  You're right where I want you to be, and don't doubt that.  You know, let's just keep moving forward.   
I called my wife when I got in that morning to let her know that, and I really didn't have any doubt.  I just got my mind back on what He called me to do, and went back to work.   
Outside of that moment, that's really it.   
 Q.  You noted when you sat down how disappointed you were for those three young men who were going home to forfeit this opportunity.  But I wonder how disappointed you are in them that they created this for your team?  
DABO SWINNEY: Well, again, it doesn't affect our team.  Y'all may think it does, but it doesn't affect our team.  We had a great practice yesterday.  This is just what I do.  I mean, it's just part of my job.  I mean, when you have 115 guys, you're going to have young people -- you're going to have some discipline from time to time.  That's just part of it.  But at the end of the day, there's consequences for your actions, and we just -- we always reinforce that and instill that in our program and always will.  It doesn't matter who they are or how big the game is.  If you don't do what's right, you ain't playing.   
Those three guys didn't do what's right, so they're not playing.  It's really not any more complicated than that.  It's just -- it really isn't.   
When my kids don't do what's right, there's consequences, so I just love them all the same.  I love those guys.  They're not bad guys.  Those aren't bad kids.  They ain't gone out and robbed a bank or anything like that.  They're not bad guys.  But they forfeited their opportunity.   
This is a privilege.  It's a privilege, and we have rules.  I don't make all the rules, but I'm going to enforce them.  When you break them, you put me in a situation where we're going to do what's right.  That I know.  Sometimes it's easier to -- oftentimes it's easier to do the wrong thing, but it's always best to do what's right, and that's what we're going to always do in this program, regardless of what people think or want to write or create.  That's just the way it is.   
 Q.  Could you enlighten us as to whether this is a team issue, an NCAA issue where Deon might face further suspension in 2016?  
DABO SWINNEY: No, it's just team rules.  Violation of team rules.   
 Q.  Baker Mayfield as you know transferred from Texas Tech to Oklahoma, had to sit out a year and lost a year of eligibility.  Do you think players ought to be able to transfer one time from another school to another school and not have to sit out and be able to play immediately?  
DABO SWINNEY: I think if you graduate, you can do what you want to do.   
 Q.  If you don't graduate?  
DABO SWINNEY: Oh, if you don't graduate?  No, I think that the rules that we have are good as far as just from that standpoint.  But I do think if guys graduate and want to transfer, I think that's -- the objective is to graduate, or at least it should be.  That I don't have a problem with.   
 Q.  We've heard a lot this week about the quarterback's ability to run, but Deshaun as a thrower, can you discuss that, and is the long ball his long suit?  
DABO SWINNEY: Well, he can make all the throws.  He's very accurate, whether he's throwing a slant route, which is a tight window on the move, a timing play, or he's throwing an over-the-top type of a ball downfield, or a back shoulder, stop them in their tracks type of a throw.  He's very accurate and very gifted in making all the throws.   
But he does throw a beautiful deep ball, there's no doubt about it.  Not all guys can do that, but he has the ability to really assess the situation as far as the technique of the defender and where he is, is he underneath, over the top, how the receiver is executing his stem and release, and he can put the ball where it needs to be.  He's special.  He's a special thrower.   
 Q.  There's been a lot of talk about who gets to be a head coach in a big-time college football, and I wonder what your suggestions would be.  You came in without a lot of pedigree; what would be your suggestion to maybe a player on your team who's clearly not going to be an NFL player but who wants to be you at some point, doesn't necessarily have a lot of connections?  
DABO SWINNEY: Well, just go to work, and you've got to start somewhere, and like I said earlier, just whatever you do, just be great at it.  That's what I tell young coaches all the time.  People say I don't have a pedigree, but I spent 13 years at Alabama.  I coached there for eight years, and I had a bunch of good players, recruited a bunch of good players there, and played there five years, played on a National Championship team, walked on, earned a scholarship.  I mean, nobody is going to -- for me, nobody gives you anything.  That's kind of what I try to teach is you're not entitled to anything.  If you want something, go get it.  But your actions have to align with what you want.  There's no shortcut, you've just got to go to work and then you've got to be good at whatever it is that you're doing.  If you're the last GA on the ladder there, man, be the best last GA in college football.  Just bloom where you're planted.   
Not everybody is going to be the head coach at Clemson, but really that really shouldn't matter.  It's just about being your best at whatever it is that you're doing, and how you treat people and how you live your life.  I mean, those are the things to me that should matter more than -- I mean, I didn't -- I hoped to be a head coach one day, but I'd probably still be at Alabama to be honest with you.  I loved my job there.  They finally said, you've got to go, and so I left, and got out of coaching for two very short seasons and got into the business world, enjoyed that, but I knew that coaching was what I was called to do, and Clemson gave me an opportunity to get back into coaching, and so I was excited about that, and I was an assistant for five-and-a-half years at Clemson and loved my job there, loved my players, just was focused on being the best that I could possibly be.   
I was 38 years old when I got put into this situation, and same thing, I wasn't focused on this.  I was just trying to be the best coach that I could be, and it kind of speaks to what I said earlier.  You don't ever know who's paying attention, and it's the networking, it's the relationships along the way, again, doing things the right way.  Ultimately those things will mount up.   
Life is about decisions that you make.  Always has been, always will be, especially those decisions you make when you're younger, especially this critical time that we have with our players, because it affects you down the road.  That's what we try to teach with our guys.  But for me, I got the job when I was 38, and I was still a very young coach.  I'm 46 now.  I'm still a young coach, but I've had a lot of experience now at being a head coach.  It's not something that you go to a seminar and get.  I mean, you can train and prepare, and I feel like I did a good job of that from the day I got into coaching in preparing for an opportunity to one day be a head coach, but until you do it, you know, the real thing is a lot different than the simulator.   
I certainly have grown in that aspect a lot over the last seven-plus years.   
The other thing is you've got to get your education.  If you don't get your degree, you can't do what I do.  You know, you've got to be qualified, and football is such a small part -- so many guys focus on the ball while you're in the moment of college, which is something else that we try to teach -- we all know that.  We know how small four or five years is.  It's such a small window of our lives, brief, brief moment, and you know, I try to teach these guys to exhaust the moment, like just get every ounce of everything that you can get out of this moment, small moment in your life.  Football is going to end.  Some of these guys will play a little bit longer but not long, but the networking, the relationships, establishing your core values on what you're going to live your life on, those are the things that are going to matter.  So that's what I would say.   
 Q.  You said you were going to roll with Huegel.  You've obviously been rolling with him all season long.  How has your comfort level grown with him since he was put in the situation to start the season?  
DABO SWINNEY: Are you kidding?  He made All-American.  He wasn't even on the roster.  It's funny, we showed a -- I don't know who did it, but we do a little video of the day about every day, and one of the video of the days was a video game, like they had taken a video game that Clemson and Oklahoma had played, and it was hilarious.  The guys watched it themselves, but the guy that made the field goal was Lakip.  I've been kidding Huegel, you've got to be on the roster in the summer to get on the video game.  He wasn't even on the video game, but he made All-American, so my comfort level is pretty good.   
 Q.  Trevion is a guy who has not necessarily had the hugest role throughout the year.  He made that big catch against South Carolina.  As his role potentially gets bigger here in the playoff, what have you seen from him over the course of the year that gives you confidence he's ready to take on that role?  
DABO SWINNEY: Great player.  Got every attribute that you -- that's why we recruited him.  Incredibly talented, gifted receiver.  Just another one of those guys that we have.  He's had some -- he's just a freshman.  He's had some big moments for us, but he's been one of those guys that has improved each and every week, to be honest with you.  He's just been a steady guy, redshirted last year, wasn't quite ready to make the transition, but boy, he's had an excellent fall for us, and he's going to have a bright future.  Very capable of making any play that we need.  That's why he was in there on third-and-8 in probably the biggest play -- one of the biggest plays of the season there at the end of that South Carolina game, and got all the confidence in the world in him.   
 Q.  I'm curious, as Deon emerged as a deep threat for Deshaun, what was Deshaun's reaction to learning that Deon wouldn't be available to him, and I guess how does that fit into the way Deshaun reacts to any and all situations?  
DABO SWINNEY: No reaction.  Just went to practice.  Just more balls for Charone.  We just rotate those guys, but it just means Charone is going to play more snaps, and that's our starter, so we'll be okay.   
 Q.  If you were to foresee a guy among your receiving corps who could really make a difference in Deon's absence as a deep threat, who do you hope that will be?  
DABO SWINNEY: Charone Peake, same guy --   
 Q.  Besides Charone?  
DABO SWINNEY: Well, that's not possible because they play the same position.  Charone is the starter and Deon is the backup, and they play the same spot.  It's really -- we just have rotated those guys.  Deon has been the backup, and a lot of his opportunities is just because he's been in the game where we rotate the guys.  This just means Charone will play more snaps, and he's certainly capable to do that, and then Trevion will back him up.  But Artavis has made plenty of plays down the field, Hopper has made plays down the field, Renfrow has made plays on the field.  I don't think we have anybody -- Leggett has made plays down the field.  We don't have anybody on our roster that we've been playing that haven't made plays.  Trevion has made plays.   
 Q.  Mackensie has had some success going up against some really good receivers this year.  What are your thoughts on that match-up and him going up against Sterling Shepard?  
DABO SWINNEY: Tough match-up.  He's got his hands full.  Great player.  We got a chance to study him a lot last year and really thought he was a gifted receiver last year going into that game.  Shifty, strong guy, excellent ball skills, great ability to run after the catch.  He's a very talented guy.  I think he's top 10 in the country right now in touchdowns.  Got his hands full.  Going to be a battle right there.  That's what you expect.  I mean, it's the Final Four.  There's no weaknesses on either one of these teams.  These are -- whatever 11 run out there on the field, they're all good players on both sides, so it'll be great match-ups everywhere.   
 Q.  Can you quantify how much healthier this team is than when they played four weeks ago against UNC?  
DABO SWINNEY: I don't know that I can quantify it, but I think we're really, really healthy.  We're in great shape physically.  We're going to be a fast football team.  I like where we are as far as our injury report and all that type of stuff.  But I can't really quantify it.  I know we played 10 straight games, and that's just kind of -- you just go.  You don't really worry about it.  You just go get ready for the next game and do the best you can.  But certainly has been great having some time off.  These guys getting their legs.  And I think we've practiced really smart.  The guys feel good about the plan, and now we've just got to go execute it.   
 Q.  What sticks out to you about Oklahoma's defense this year compared to last year?  
DABO SWINNEY: Well, they just -- again, I thought they were really tough against the run last year, and really not much different.  Nine of the 11 are back.  I just think that they've executed very cleanly.  They messed around a little bit with a four-man front in the early part of the year and they kind of scrapped that and went back to their Okie front, which is kind of what they're kind of built for.  But they're better on the back end than I thought they were last year.  Just again, more experience, more confidence in what they're doing, and they've done a heck of a job.  They're really difficult to run the ball on.  They always outnumber you in the box, so you've got to be creative in how you run the ball, and you have to stay patient.   
But they're not much different.  I thought they were really good last year defensively, as well.   
 Q.  Have you had to use any Jedi mind tricks with your team given what you did to Oklahoma last year?  
DABO SWINNEY: Jedi mind tricks?  Is that Star Wars?  Okay.   
No Jedi mind tricks.  You got one for me?  I'm open to all suggestions.   
No, I mean, last year's game just has nothing to do with this game.  I mean, it really doesn't.  We have great respect for Oklahoma.  We talk about that all the time as far as last week's tackles and touchdowns and all that stuff, sacks, don't win this week.  And certainly last year's performance isn't going to win this year.  Different teams.  Every game is a game and a season of its own.  It really is.   
They turned the ball over five times against us, and we're a good team.  That's not going to be a pretty result.  If we turn the ball over five times, it's not going to be a pretty result.   
That's just the way that game was that day.  Really not indicative of the talent -- the talent is very similar, and that's why they've come back and had a great year this year, and they're in the Final Four.   
Our guys, the one thing, young guys and these football players, these guys are smart.  This is what they do.  They understand ball, and when you put the film on, they know who can play, and they know who's not quite as good a player pretty quickly.  All you've got to do is put the film on, and Oklahoma will get your attention in every area.  They really don't have a weakness.  They're really good all over the field.  Punter does it all for them, kicks, punts, does everything, so good solid team, and it shows on film.   
 Q.  There's been a lot of consternation over the targeting rule this year and maybe last year, as well.  Are you in favor of it as it is now, or do you think it needs to be tweaked in any way?  
DABO SWINNEY: No, I think it needs to be tweaked.  I'm actually on one of them committees where I get a chance to actually talk about some of those things, but I do think it needs to be tweaked.   
I do think it has worked in that it's cut down and it's cleaned up a lot of what they were trying to get rid of.  I don't think there's any question about that.  I think it's had a great effect on the game, and again, making the game safer and eliminating those type of plays.  But I think from time to time, I think there should be a little bit more opportunity in the review process.  That's where I think it needs to be tweaked a little bit.   
 Q.  Now that the week is kind of winding down, did you do anything different handling this bowl game seeing as it's a playoff and you may have another game next week?  Did you do anything different than in the past?  
DABO SWINNEY: No, we prepared the same.  I mean, we're not guaranteed another game, so we'd better put everything we've got into this game.  I've got all these people coming up to me, hey, man, I've already booked my tickets to Arizona.  I'm like, you'd better get them to Miami.  We've got to win this game.  That's what our focus has been.  If we're fortunate to get another game and play again, we've got time to get ready for that.  We've got 10 days or whatever.  Most days you've got about three, three-and-a-half days to really get your plan in.  If we're fortunate enough to win it, coaches will be back in the office on Sunday, players will be in on Monday, and we'll be rolling.  We'll have about two or three extra days of actual prep time than we would normally have in a game week.  We'll worry about that then.  Our focus has really been 100 percent on trying to win this game, and we've prepared exactly the same as we have in our past bowls as far as how we get our team ready, the combination of good on good Clemson work, game prep versus the opponent, and then really spending time with our young players and trying to develop them for spring practice.  And I think we've had a really tight itinerary down here.  We didn't get here until the night of the 26th.  We had practice in Clemson that morning, which was really good, and when we've not been meeting or practicing and we've had something that we need to be plugged into, we've been engaged in that, and I think it's important.   
The Orange Bowl folks do an unbelievable job, and they work really, really hard to create a great event, and I think it's important that we participate.  We had the FCA breakfast yesterday morning.  I think they had Dave & Buster's last night, so we've done the things that have been on our itinerary, but today is about getting locked in.  These guys have kind of had their normal process as far as how we prepare.   
We just keep them dialed in on, okay, today is a team Thursday; today is focus Friday.  So they can mentally kind of stay in the same routine.   
 Q.  You have great fans.  You're closer than Oklahoma.  You'll have a crowd advantage.  Have you guys talked about that, and what do you expect?  
DABO SWINNEY: No, we haven't talked about that, but I expect we'll have a great crowd.  I'd be shocked if we don't.  Wherever we go, we have a great crowd.  Our guys know that.   
But no, we haven't spent any time talking about the crowd.  That doesn't really matter.  I mean, we spend all of our time talking about how we play, and that's it.   
 Q.  You told a great story about how you were led to know this was your moment by faith.  I'm just curious, Arian Foster kind of created a little bit of a stir when he said he was an atheist.  If in your recruiting of an athlete, a kid, and he came to you at one point and said, I respect you but I don't believe in God, would he still have a spot in your program?  
DABO SWINNEY: (Laughing).   
 Q.  Just in general?  
DABO SWINNEY: Absolutely.  You know, my job is to win football games.  We're going to always recruit and play the best football players.  That's an easy question.  I've got -- we don't play the best Christians.  I've said that many times.  If we played the best Christians, I wouldn't be sitting here.  (Laughter.)   
I can guarantee you that.  But as a Christian, I love everybody.  I really do.  I don't judge other people.  I think it's important that everybody has -- they can be who they want to be.  I just know how I'm called to live my life, and I try to be consistent with that, be who you are.  Whoever you are, be who you are.  I've coached a bunch of atheists I'm sure along the way, a ton.  That wouldn't have anything to do with it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT