U.S. SENIOR OPEN
August 13, 2016
Jeff Maggert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So 2 over today, not bad.  Scores are high today.  So just talk about how you played.
JEFF MAGGERT: Yeah, 2 over.  I'm disappointed with 2 over.  I was playing well.  2 under at the turn, and just kind of gave a lot of shots away on the back nine, mainly just with the putter.
So, yeah, not real happy with the way I finished.  I felt like I should have shot under par today and been right there.  So now I'm five, six shots behind.  It's going to be a lot for tomorrow's round.
So I don't know what the weather's going to do tomorrow.  Obviously, I'd like to see it play a lot like it did.  I felt like if I play a good round tomorrow, I have a good chance to get it back to under par.
Q. With scores high today, did you notice a difference on the course from the last two days to today?
JEFF MAGGERT: Well, the wind blew 20 to 25 miles an hour on the back nine.  That's the biggest difference.  We had some wind yesterday afternoon, so I was used to the wind.
But you just -- you can't make four bogeys like that on the back nine.  You just can't do it.  Missed a couple of three-footers and missed a couple of easy up-and-downs.  That's the difference.  Can't do that.
Q. What's going on with the putting?  Not necessarily you.  Seems like a lot of guys are coming up short, struggling to read them.  Yet they love the greens.
JEFF MAGGERT: I don't know.  The greens, pin placements are tough.  I don't feel like I've putted well at all.  It's more me than misreading greens.  If I have a good putting round tomorrow, I feel like I can shoot 3, 4, 5 under, but got to make the putts.
Q. Do you love the wind?
JEFF MAGGERT: I don't love it.
Q. I don't know if you love it, but you played well in it.
JEFF MAGGERT: It was perfect conditions for me.  Like I said, I just, I gave away some really easy bogeys on the last nine holes here.  I made the turn at 2 under par on a tough day.
Just little bounces here and there with the ball rolling right up against the collar, either on the green or first cut of the rough, and then having an awkward stance on the slopes.  Just a lot of little things like that that just made it a little bit more difficult.  And two three-putts on the back nine and a couple easy up-and-downs.  That was pretty much the round, the last nine holes.
Q. You're kind of a student of the game.  What do you think of No. 8, just in general, and then playing as a 4?
JEFF MAGGERT: I think it's a great par 4.  You can't have every hole easy.  The only thing today is they played the back tee with the heavy wind.  So if you were going to make a criticism, probably should have had the up tee there today.  Other than that, I think it played it well the last two days.  So just it's a tough golf hole.
Q. Is it the blind shot?  What makes it so challenging?  You never feel comfortable?
JEFF MAGGERT: Well, I mean, the tee shot's really not that hard.  The fairway's 45 yards wide, so you've just got to rip it down there.  You know you're going to have a long iron to the green.  So, I mean, just got to hit two good shots and get it on the green.  If you do that, you've got a chance to make birdie.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT