U.S. SENIOR OPEN
August 12, 2016
Jeff Maggert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You made a lot of pars today, and you're in good position.  
JEFF MAGGERT: Yeah, it was frustrating.  The golf course played a lot tougher, I think, this afternoon than any time yesterday for sure.   
I just tried to hang in there.  I had a lot of good shots coming down the stretch, but it just seemed like the ball was taking a lot bigger bounce on the greens, and just putting from 20, 25 feet all day.   
I played good all day, had one three-putt on the 7th hole.  Other than that, very solid.  If I missed a shot, I gave myself a chance to make pars, and it just played tough.  I mean, I wish I could have made a couple more birdies yesterday and a couple more today, a little better position going into the weekend.   
I'd like to see the golf course play this way the rest of the way.  Maybe some of the scores will come back towards par a little bit.  But if we get some rain -- it's a forecast maybe for some rain, so the course will play a little bit different.   
I've just got to keep playing the way I'm playing right now.  I'm hitting the ball well and just trying to be patient on the greens.  I know I'll make a few if I can keep hitting the ball the way I am.   
 Q.  Is this a course that you can make a lot of ground up on in a hurry, or do you have to peck away at it?  
JEFF MAGGERT: With the two-tee start tomorrow, everyone's going to be playing in the same part of the day.  I was going to say, if you could get out two or three hours before the lead group, you could have a chance to shoot a 4, 5 under maybe.  But I think with everyone bunched up, I think the key is just to play smart golf and not try to get it all back tomorrow, especially for myself.   
2 or 3 under would be a great score, I think, for me to shoot at for tomorrow, and if I can get a couple more, that would be awesome.  But just get it somewhere back under par and then see what happens on Sunday.   
 Q.  When you're in a two-tee start in a third round or a final round setting, is it harder to know what's going on out there, or do you even want to know what's going on?  
JEFF MAGGERT: Saturday, not too much scoreboard watching.  Obviously, if a couple guys are kind of getting away from the field, then you might change your game plan and play a little bit more aggressive.  But other than that, just play hard and try not to make any mistakes.  The pace of play is a lot slower when we have a two-tee start.   
The last two days, in particular for me, I was behind a couple slow players and just the waiting on every shot kind of takes me out of my rhythm.  So I got to be careful not to let that bother me.  I think I let it get under my skin a little bit maybe the last couple days.   
You got to kind of stay within what I'm trying to do and not worry about those things that I can't control.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT