CONSTELLATION SENIOR PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
July 15, 2018
Jeff Maggert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CHRIS RICHARDS: Thank you for joining us, Jeff.  Obviously not the result that you wanted, but what do you take away from your week?   
JEFF MAGGERT: Well, I mean, I played well.  The golf course stayed in fabulous shape all week, hit the ball well today.  Just seemed like I was putting from 15, 20 feet all day and just never really had a lot of close putts for birdie.  I had an opportunity on 18 there.  I hit it in there pretty close and just hit kind of a -- just pulled the putt a little bit.  But you know, I felt like 21-, 22-under was kind of a good target score today.  I didn't think 20 would be enough.  I was fortunate enough to get in the playoff.  Vijay and I played together today, and we played steady all day long.  Neither one of us made very many putts.  We both hit the ball pretty well.   
You know, the difference is Vijay knocked it in there a foot and a half on the playoff hole.  Those are easy to make.  Both of us struggled making 15-, 18-footers all day long, so all it takes is one to get close, and he pulled it off.   
 Q.  On that last bogey, I think on 16 --  
JEFF MAGGERT: I just hit the tree in front of the green.  The tree is in play there with that front right pin, and it just -- of all the bounces you could have got, that was probably about the worst one you can possibly imagine.  You know, the ball could have gone anywhere, but it went straight backwards 30, 40 yards and then didn't have much of a play to the pin there to try to get it up-and-down.  Had to play it a little bit to the right of the hole there because of the big tree.  I left myself with an 18-, 20-footer for par.   
 Q.  There's a lot of shots you can replay in your head over a round or a tournament.  The first putt on 18 and then in the playoff, like you said --  
JEFF MAGGERT: Well, that was probably the closest opportunity I had all day on 18.  Me and Vijay both played the par-5s well.  We birdied the four par-5s, and I hit a ball close on the 13th hole, about a three-footer.  Five of my birdies -- four of my birdies were tapping in from two feet away.  So like I said, just not making the 10-, 15-, 18-footers today was the difference, and Vijay was kind of the same way.  He played the par-5s right there with me.  We birdied all four of them.  The only difference is he didn't make a bogey today, I made five birdies and a bogey, and he made, I think, four birdies and no bogeys.  We played toe-to-toe all day.  He hit a nice shot on 18, and I had a chance to make a few putts throughout the day, but they just didn't go in.   
 Q.  You said you guys played toe-to-toe.  At some point had you separated yourself and it was more of a match play type situation?  
JEFF MAGGERT: I wasn't really watching the scoreboard or Vijay.  Like I said, I thought I needed to shoot 5-, 6-, 7-under today to really kind of ice it.  So I was really focused in on making seven or eight birdies today.  I actually think me and Vijay's scorecard was identical until maybe 13.  I birdied 13 and he made par, and then I made the bogey on 17, and he made par there.  Other than that, we just -- we were kind of right there together.  We just played some good, steady golf.   
You know, I thought some other scores would come into play there towards the end, but the last two or three groups looked like they were struggling other than me and Vijay.   
 Q.  How did this experience here at Exmoor stack up with other majors on this Tour?  
JEFF MAGGERT: Well, this was a little unique because of the low scoring.  I thought the golf course was ripe for shooting low scores, which is a little uncharacteristic of some of our majors.  To feel like you've got to shoot 20-under par or better when you start the week, it's kind of a tough challenge.  But it's a great golf course.  It was in great condition.  You know, but the guys on this Tour, they don't play a lot different than the guys on the other Tour, so you put them on a golf course like this, and it doesn't matter if they're 55 or 25, they're going to tear a place like this up.  The fairways are 30, 40 yards wide, and the rough was playable.  There was really no excuse for not shooting good scores this week.   
 Q.  Vijay is sort of transitioning more into playing the Champions Tour a little bit more.  You're a couple years past that.  What goes through your head as a player when you're kind of making that decision to kind of play more Champions and commit fully to that?  
JEFF MAGGERT: Well, it's tough.  We all have an ego to compete.  I was fortunate to be competitive in my late 40s.  I actually had dual status when I turned 50, so I was going back and forth between the two tours.  But you have to commit to one tour or the other, I think, to play well.  If you try to do both, you'll wind up splitting your schedule.  I think eventually guys get in their mid-50s, it's tough to compete on the other Tour, obviously.  The young guys hit it a mile.  Vijay still hits it a long way, probably not as far as he used to.  But it's time to move on.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT