MISSISSIPPI GULF RESORT CLASSIC PRESENTED BY C SPIRE
March 21, 2014
Jeff Maggert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Your first round as a Champions Tour player, just sort of talk about that.   
JEFF MAGGERT:   Obviously a good start.   Really just played steady all day.   I think I hit all the fairways except for one, hit most of the greens.   A couple 3‑putts out there I was not too happy about but I just played steady golf, took advantage of all the par 5s, and put together a good round.   
   
 Q.   Was it any extra butterflies, being the newest rookie out here on the first tee?  
JEFF MAGGERT:   Yeah, there's always butterflies in any tournament I play a little bit.   But not too bad.   I thought I'd be a little bit more nervous today but it was fun to get out there.   Steve Pate always keeps you nice and loose out there, and I haven't had a chance to really know Mike but he's a nice fella and we had a good time today.   Looking forward to many more events out here.  
   
 Q.   How about just take us through the round, highlights, any long putts or anything that kept the round going?   
JEFF MAGGERT:   Not really any long putts.   Just hit it close and made the ones I was supposed to.   Birdied all four of the par 5s, like I said, I 3‑putted my second hole No. 11 and then I had a 3‑putt on the front nine there on No. 4, but other than that, just steady golf, fairways and greens, not a lot of mistakes.   
   
 Q.   How does the course compare to what you were expecting?   
JEFF MAGGERT:   Oh, this is a very good golf course.   I know we play the tees up a little bit, but still, we're playing a pretty lengthy golf course this week.   There's a par 4 on the front nine there, I think No. 4, I had 220 yards left to the hole, so it was not a pushover by any means.   But certainly a great golf course and a good challenge, for sure.   
The weather was really good today, so I felt like there might be a few good scores, but you know, all in all, the leaderboard is pretty good.   A lot of good scores out there, a lot of 3‑under, 4‑unders, maybe someone will get in at five, we'll see.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT