THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2013
Jeff Maggert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Jeff, obviously a disappointing 17th hole, but what are your emotions right now? 
JEFF MAGGERT:   I played very well today.   I was happy with my execution today.   I knew the greens were going to be a little dicey this afternoon.   Couple three‑putts on the front nine kept me from really kind of getting some momentum going early, but a nice birdie on 10, nice birdie on 11, just kind of got me right back in the ballgame. 
17, I had a really good yardage for that club, and the wind was coming up a little bit, which is kind of what I needed, and I just caught the ball a little bit thin.   Poor execution there, and unfortunately, you know, when you've got water in front of the green, that's not a good time to be short of the green.   You know, it was close.   If I were to hit the ball solid, it would have been‑‑ the line was just perfect right where I was looking at. 
So, anyway, 18 was good.   I hit a solid drive, made birdie there.   So, you know, what can I say?   A wrong shot at the wrong time and you get penalized on this golf course, but I was fortunate enough to play the rest of the course well and post a decent score today.

Q.   Only a few people who made big moves up the leaderboard today.   Was that because the course was playing tougher today? 
JEFF MAGGERT:   Yeah, I think it played a little tougher, a little tougher pin placements, and the greens were just‑‑ they weren't as smooth as what we're used to here.   A little grainy, a little bouncy, especially late in the day.   It was hard to get the 10‑ to 15‑footers to get a true roll going to the hole.   So it was difficult to make those putts today.

Q.   What did you hit at 17, a 9‑iron? 
JEFF MAGGERT:   9‑iron, yeah.

Q.   Sergio hit two in the water there.   Is that kind of the good and the bad of that hole?   Fans love it, players hate it? 
JEFF MAGGERT:   Yeah, I mean, when I hit my shot, I was yelling at it to go, because I thought it had a chance to get up on that little ridge there.   I didn't really think the wind was blowing hard enough to keep it short of the green.   I didn't take a real aggressive line.   I was just trying to hit it right on the top and maybe let it take the slope down. 
But from my angle, the line was just right where I was aiming, but catching the ball thin and into the wind it kind of upshot a little bit and just didn't have enough juice to get there.   It looked like it was close, but close but no cigar.

Q.   Did you know you were tied for the lead? 
JEFF MAGGERT:   I kind of thought that 12‑under was‑‑ I knew I was 12‑under, I wasn't paying much attention to the leaderboard the last few holes.   Really on the back nine I was thinking let's try to get to 15‑under.   That was kind of a target score.   That may seem a little optimistic, but I really felt like if I could stay aggressive and try to get to that score, that would be an awesome number to post and let the guys behind me see it.   But I was just stuck on 12. 
Not birdieing 16 kind of took a little momentum away.   Obviously, I felt like I needed to birdie 17 or 18 to have a chance.   18 being more of a birdie hole, I was just playing pretty conservative on 17 trying to hit it over there, middle of the green, and get 3 and get out of there.

Q.   Once the sting of 17 wears off, will you be able to come out of here thinking you played really well for four rounds? 
JEFF MAGGERT:   You know, I've played obviously a lot of tournaments here and played that 17th hole a lot of times.   So it's just the 17th hole.   You just live with it.   You know it's going to be a test of nerves, and you just go up there and try to hit a good shot.   At the end of the tournament when things are on the line, it's the ultimate risk‑reward.   So you've just got to get up there and try to hit a good shot and get out of there with a par.

Q.   Do you feel this is the best you've played this year? 
JEFF MAGGERT:   Ball striking‑wise, I played a lot of tournaments this well on the West Coast, but I couldn't post any good scores.   Just putting was holding me back.   But the ball striking has been great all year.   The last two or three weeks I was pretty disappointed.   My position, the way I've played, and then this week I just tried to be patient.   I know this is a good golf course for my game, so maybe a late start to the season for me.   Hopefully I can build on this and put some good tournaments together here for the rest of the summer.

Q.   Jeff, are you disappointed? 
JEFF MAGGERT:   You're always disappointed.   You have a chance to win a big tournament like this.   I've been fortunate enough to win three times on the TOUR.   I wish I could have had a few more victories.   But I've been here before.   It wasn't my first rodeo.   So I knew what I had to do today to have a chance to win.   I felt like I executed pretty well, and, yeah, just disappointed to come up short.   But it's a funny thing about this game.   You put it behind you, you go to next week, and you get up on the first tee on Thursday and you start all over.   If you're worried about what happened four days prior, then you're not going to last very long out here.   You look forward and look to the next shot, the next hole, and the next tournament. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT