THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 11, 2013
Jeff Maggert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JEFF MAGGERT:   You know, I felt like this golf course would kind of fall into my favor, the way I've been hitting the ball this year, and it was just a matter of trying to make a few putts.   Kind of the game plan for the weekend was to try to get somewhere to 10‑, 11‑, 12‑under, but I didn't expect to do most of that today.   So hopefully another solid round tomorrow and we'll see what happens.

Q.   12 usually puts you in pretty good shape out here on Sunday.   Do you think that will still be the case?
JEFF MAGGERT:   Obviously the golf course and with the finishing holes, you just never know.   You just try to play well 18 holes and post a score and see what happens. 
But there's some pretty good names up there on the top of the leaderboard, so I don't expect to move backwards very much.

Q.   What were your expectations coming here this week?
JEFF MAGGERT:   To make the cut (laughing).   It's funny, the older I get, some of the struggles that I've been through, I joke a little bit about that.   I'm still very competitive on the inside and want to play well every week, but it's just tough, just trying to keep it together and keep your health in good shape.   One week my wrist hurts, the next week my shoulder hurts, so I'm working my way through it. 

Q.   Have you had one eye on the Champions Tour yet?
JEFF MAGGERT:   I'm getting really close.   I'd like to be able to play here some for a couple more years and also play some on the Champions Tour.

Q.   So then it's safe to say based upon what you said that you're just a little bit surprised?
JEFF MAGGERT:   Yes and no.   I thought I could shoot a good score here this week.   I thought I had a 6‑, 7‑ or 8‑under in me on this golf course, and today was a good day.   Certainly my ball‑striking is very well, and if I can just keep the putter rolling and stay away from the big mistakes tomorrow, I feel like I can go out and shoot another round, something in the 60s, 69, 68, somewhere in there.

Q.   This is a tough golf course, but it's a‑‑ I don't have to tell you, but it's a precision golf course, so when you're playing your game it would seem that it would fit right in your wheelhouse. 
JEFF MAGGERT:   It's a ball striker's course, no doubt.   The greens are a little bit off this year.   They're not quite as good as they have been in the past.   The little four‑ and five‑footers are tough to make.   You know, for a guy that has been struggling putting, sometimes that kind of works into my advantage because sometimes my bad putts wind up going in the hole when they bounce.   So it works both ways.   But I've felt pretty good with my putter this week.   I had a couple hiccups the first three days, but it's been pretty good.

Q.   You've had some good results here but it's a few years back‑‑
JEFF MAGGERT:   You're being kind.   More than a few years.

Q.   What's the difference between you now and you let's say 10 years ago when I think you were third place? 
JEFF MAGGERT:   When I was in my 30s I never really thought that it would be that difficult to really stay focused and stay competitive in my late 40s.   I just assumed that it was going to be easy, even though all the guys in front of me said, hey, it's not that easy when you get in your late 40s.   They're right.   It takes a‑‑ it almost takes more focus now than what I had 10 or 12 years ago because there's so many distractions outside of golf, family things that I enjoy doing, and when I am at home I just really don't put the effort in that I used to probably 15 or 20 years ago.   That's the hardest hurdle is really motivating myself to get out there and put the time in to really be competitive.

Q.   Are you a little disappointed with 17 and 18?   You had a really nice birdie chance on 17 and then fairway on 18. 
JEFF MAGGERT:   Hey, if you're on the green on 17 you're happy.   2 is a bonus, so I'll take the 3.   Obviously I had an opportunity to make birdie.   I hit a nice shot there yesterday and made 2, so I feel like I'm ahead already, so I'm not going to be too greedy there. 
18, I just drove‑‑ the fairways have a lot of common Bermuda growing intermixed with the normal grass, and it's kind of grabby, and if you're not careful it'll kind of grab the club, and I think I tugged it a little bit on 18.   It looked like the wind was going to kind it hold it up and it was going to catch that little corner of the green, but it just rolled down into the bunker.

Q.   You've got a lot of experience which you can rely on.   Is there any expectation‑‑ is the expectation any different for you tomorrow than it was coming into the week? 
JEFF MAGGERT:   You know, my expectations are the same as they were 10 years ago.   I expect to play well and put myself in a position to be competitive on Sunday.   You know, it just doesn't happen quite as often as it used to.   You know, in some ways it's probably going to help me tomorrow because I don't have‑‑ I'm just going to play my game and play well and shoot the best score I can and see what happens. 

Q.   Can you see yourself winning? 
JEFF MAGGERT:   You know, that's why I'm here.   That's what I'm saying.   It's like we've still got that in our blood.   This course in particular probably really suits my style of game at this point in my career.   I feel I can come out and hit the ball well and shoot a good score. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT