HUMANA CHALLENGE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CLINTON FOUNDATION
January 17, 2013
Jeff Maggert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Nice start, 8 birdies on the card, 8‑under par.   That's wait you got to, if you're going to be in contention through Sunday, this is what you have to do on Thursday. 
JEFF MAGGERT:   Well the computer had me for one extra birdie there, I actually just made seven birdies today.   But seven birdies, no bogeys is nothing to sneeze at. 
So I'm definitely happy with my start.   Obviously just hitting the ball well, getting the ball close to the hole, and making a few putts.

Q.   So that's why you check the scorecard and the computer to make sure the score's right?
JEFF MAGGERT:   Always, yes.   We look at the computers all day and we assume that they're always right, but anyway, it was a good round, yeah.   I'm happy. 

Q.   You're going to be 49 next month.   Does the mind wander about what lies ahead when you turn 50 or are you still really wanting to be a part of this?
JEFF MAGGERT:   Well, my game's gotten a lot better the last year and a half.   I had shoulder surgery a year and a half ago and just feeling really healthy right now, so I would like to stay out here and play a few more years if I can.   And obviously if I can finish in the top 125 on the Money List, that's kind of a bonus, and if I can keep my TOUR card out here and then maybe play little bit on the Champions Tour as well that would be a good plan.

Q.   You were fifth here last year.   What is it about playing three courses with amateurs three of the four days that you like?
JEFF MAGGERT:   Last year I just started feeling better with my putter most of the year and it kind of started right here.   I started hitting the ball pretty good and making a few putts and I just had a good vibe from last year, I guess, and feeling good with the putter again and you got to shoot low out here always, so I'll just keep hitting it close to the hole and trying to make the putts. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT