FRYS.COM OPEN
October 11, 2012
Jeff Maggert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Jeff, good birdie at 18.   Wrapped up a really good day for you.   Solid start.   You got to be happy. 
JEFF MAGGERT:   I played really well today.   Hit the ball really good.   I had a chance to make a lot of birdies; I made a few of 'em but left a few out there.
All in all, just solid playing.   Not a lot of mistakes.   Just one probably missed with the bogey that I made, but other than that, really good day.

Q.   I was impressed, because you just put the sweater on.   Out there you had the short sleeves on, and it's cold out here.   How did you do that?
JEFF MAGGERT:   I had an on early in the round and I just felt a little bit restricted with the sweater on, so I decided to pull it off.   I started hitting some really good shots with high irons, so I just suffered through it and didn't want to put it back on until I finished.

Q.   You've been at it for a long time.   Coming in you were 125 on the list.   Obviously you're handling this better than maybe a younger player, but what is your approach this week?
JEFF MAGGERT:   Well, I'm getting pretty close to that senior tour, so I would love to play out here two or three years and maybe bounce back and fourth between the senior tour and this tour.
You know, I got to take care of business out here first.   I feel like I'm playing well enough to do something out here the last few weeks.   We'll see what happens.
I don't mind going to the TOUR school.   That has been my top money winning tournament for the Fall Series has been the TOUR school.   If I have to go back, so be it.   It's just another tournament.

Q.   Great attitude.   Of course, you've been there before. 
JEFF MAGGERT:   Yeah, I can't complain.   I've had a really good career out here.   I struggled a little bit the last few years with some injuries, but right now my health is great; ball‑striking is about as good as it's ever been; putting is starting to come around again. 
So who knows, maybe I can make something happen this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT