FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 8, 2012
Jeff Maggert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Other than than the slight stumble on 17, you controlled the flight of your golf ball.  
JEFF MAGGERT:   Everything was kind in control today.   I struggled a little bit on the front-9.   I wasn't hitting the ball very close to the hole, 25, 30 footers.   Never really had a chance to make birdies, but I started hitting the ball a little closer on the back-9, made a few putts.   Had a nice save on 9 for a par and then just kind of putted solid most of the day.  
   
 Q.   Give us an idea of how those par saves spur on the round just as much as some of the birdies do.  
JEFF MAGGERT:   I was in a pretty good spot on the ninth hole there in the rough, had a good lie, and I was thinking I could just kind of get it right in the middle of the green, and it went long in the bunker and poor bunker shot and made a nice 18, 20-footer.   It all works out.   
That kind keeps your momentum going and definitely kind of set up the back-9 for me to go out and try to shoot a good score.  
   
 Q.   Give us a level of excitement for you now halfway home and at the top of the leaderboard, at a place you have love so much and where you've won in the past.  
JEFF MAGGERT:   I thought I could have maybe got a couple more birdies today, but definitely in good position for the weekend.   This is a golf course where someone is probably not going to run away from you.   
Also, there's a lot of guys close to the lead.   You know, there's probably 30, 40 guys still in the tournament.   I need the play well on the weekend, especially tomorrow, and stick to my game plan and play solid golf.   
   
 Q.   Top of the leaderboard yesterday, staying there today.   Talk about how you feel after the round today.  
JEFF MAGGERT:   I felt pretty good, you know.   I played really well yesterday, so I wanted to kind of keep the momentum going today.   I didn't make quite as many birdies today as I did yesterday, but still I drove the ball pretty well and kept the ball in play.   
Not any mistakes, really.   Made some nice saves.   Other than the bogey on 17, was probably the only damage.   To play this golf course with just one bogey is a pretty good day.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned par is as important as a birdie today.   Is that kind of mindset when you're a front runner?  
JEFF MAGGERT:   Yeah.   You're always going to have probably one day where you're struggling a little bit, so you got to be able to clip the ball well and make the par saves.   And, you know, really yesterday and today, I did find a little trouble I was in and escaped out of it pretty easily.  
   
 Q.   First two rounds, obviously the weather is a little bit nicer than it has been in years past.   Has that affected the course at all?  
JEFF MAGGERT:   It's playing very similar to the way it has the last two years.   You know, they switched over and put bermuda grass down.   Playing a par 70 now, and, you know, it's a tough little challenge.   
Even this afternoon the wind didn't blow really like it did yesterday at all and the scores were right there.   Kevin had a great, great round today.   I think he was 4, 5-under, I'm not sure, but that was a really good score this afternoon.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT