JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 10, 2010
Jeff Maggert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Jeff, what a great day, eight birdies, no bogeys. Just talk this afternoon for me.   
 JEFF MAGGERT: You know, I'm not really hitting it that great, to be honest with you. I'm just making everything I look at, and I haven't done that since I was probably 12 years old. So it was a little unexpected.  
 You know, I hit the ball pretty good, though, for about 12 holes, and I don't know, the last six holes I didn't feel much and was missing greens, but I've been putting so well, I just chip it up there and give myself an opportunity to save pars.   
 I know I made a like nice 20-footer or 18-footer to save par on 15, and that kind of kept my momentum going, and had a little trouble on 17, but I made a nice par there, and made a nice par on 18.  
  
  Q. Like you said, 18, was that the plan there, go left of the flag?  
 JEFF MAGGERT: Well, I've been hitting a lot of pulled hooks on the Back 9. So I was a little leery of the water there, and I was just trying to play at the CBS sign, which was about 15 feet to the right of the hole, and hit the shot I've been hitting the whole Back 9, just a little putt to the hole. So it ended up okay. Definitely wasn't trying to hit it in there -- definitely wasn't trying to hit it left-to-right, that's for sure, but I was kind of playing for the hooks, so I put a good swing on it there and hit a good shot.  
  
  Q. You gotta feel great about this with the struggles you've been going through and the injuries and frustrations on the golf course and all of a sudden it's coming together.   
 JEFF MAGGERT: Yeah, and you know, it's been all putting really. Even with the injury I've been able to manage my game pretty well and hit the ball decent enough to shoot some good scores, but I've just been putting so awful that this is the first week that things have really turned around with my short game, and here I am right near the lead.  
  
  Q. Well, congratulations on the round. Good luck tomorrow, and even if you can't win a passport, a trip to Great Britain maybe?  
 JEFF MAGGERT: Yeah. To be honest, that's not really in my game plan, and I've really made a commitment for a family vacation next week, so we'll see what happens.   
 You know, I've played two British Opens at St. Andrews and have been fortunate enough to play, I don't know, 40 or 45 major championships, so I wouldn't say it's a definite that I will be going.   
 One thing I would like to know is if I don't accept the invitation, will they go to the next player or they won't, so I can't help someone out by not going. I would be certainly willing to help the next guy out, if that was the case, but they won't go down the list.  
  
  Q. I've got Doug Milne who's here answering those questions for him. Great play today.   
 JEFF MAGGERT: Thank you.  
  
  Q. Our only question might be is it a frustration to shoot such a great round and still be so far back?  
 JEFF MAGGERT: No way, man. The way I've been playing this summer, anything's a good round. So you know, Steve's obviously his game is on and he's playing great golf. But I've been fortunate this week as well. I've made a lot of putts. I really haven't -- I can't say this has been my best ball-striking tournament, but certainly near the top with the putter, definitely the top two or three tournaments I've ever played putting the ball this well.   
 So who knows, go out tomorrow, and if I can have a really nice ball-striking round, I feel like I gotta throw another eight, nine, ten birdies at him just to have a shot, so we'll see what happens.  
  
  Q. Jeff, if you finish an event 25-under, what does it do for your confidence going forward in the future?  
 JEFF MAGGERT: Just playing well anywhere, you know, finishing near the lead or having a chance to win, whether it's 5-under or 25-under, you know, gives yourself the confidence that you're at the top of your game.   
 You know, I'm tickled to death. I mean I'm planning on taking a few weeks off after this week, and to finish it off on a high note certainly is a good thing.   
  
  Q. Sounds they you could be trying to scoot things along tomorrow, beat some rain, trying for a 3:00 finish?   
 JEFF MAGGERT: Yeah. That happens quite a bit. I think they've done that here at this tournament a few times actually.   
 So it's a smart move. You don't want to be stuck out there at 4, 5:00 in the afternoon and have to come back Monday morning.   
 I know there is a weather system coming through tomorrow, so hopefully the morning tee times will be good and we won't have any trouble.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT