JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 9, 2010
Jeff Maggert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Jeff, bogey-free, you make a big long birdie early, sweet day of playing golf.   
 JEFF MAGGERT: Yeah, my putter has been pretty good this week. It hasn't been very well all summer, so it was kind of surprising to make so many putts the last two days.   
 I wouldn't say my ball-striking is just fantastic, but today was better. I hit a lot more shots closer to the pin and had some opportunities to make a few more birdies.  
  
  Q. The conditions seem to be really good, and you guys are really making confident strokes around ten feet, aren't you?  
 JEFF MAGGERT: Yeah, the greens are probably a little slower than what they have been here, so I think guys are just being a lot more aggressive with the dry weather today and this afternoon. I expect the weekend greens to be a little bit slicker so it's going to make the putting probably a little bit more difficult.  
  
  Q. You've seen a 59 and a 60 thrown up on the same day which nobody had seen before. What's the mindset when you've kind of gotten yourself in the hunt and then you have another good one? Do you just forget what those guys are doing?  
 JEFF MAGGERT: Yeah, you felt like the scores were going to be pretty good yesterday. You know, it's four days, and the scoring conditions are good, so I just tried to go out and make putts. Obviously someone gets 12- or 11-under the first day. But it's different if they do that the last day. You don't have any days to catch them. With three days left, you know, with some good golf, you can kind of make up for that.  
  
  Q. You're smiling, that's good to see. It's been a rough last couple of months for you but you've got something going now?  
 JEFF MAGGERT: Yeah, I had a really good start to the year, played pretty solid, and had kind of a shoulder injury I've been battling for -- really still battling it. That's what happens when you're 46 and been doing it for 25 years. Those little aches and pains catch up to you.   
  
  Q. Two days here of back-to-back pretty good golf. You've got to be excited.   
 JEFF MAGGERT: It is. I've been struggling putting the ball for the last few months, and for some reason all of a sudden everything is going in the hole. That's a good problem to have. I've been hitting the ball okay, nothing really spectacular, but obviously when you make a lot of putts, you can shoot some good scores.  
  
  Q. Seems like you're going to need those good scores the way some of those guys bunched up with you right now are making birdies.   
 JEFF MAGGERT: Yeah, after yesterday we all kind of knew the scores were going to be good. Lift, clean and place obviously helped a little bit. Playing the ball down the rest of the week probably will keep the scoring not quite as low, but I've got to figure somewhere around 25-under is probably going to win this tournament, so I've got to keep playing hard and trying to shoot 6-, 7-under on the weekend each day.   
  
  Q. What are you doing with your game? I know you said you've struggled. Is it just a matter of working on the putting green a little more?  
 JEFF MAGGERT: 25 years out here, it's -- I can't put a finger on it. Sometimes you can overanalyze things to death and just make it so your mind can't even function, so I've just been trying to back up a little bit and have some fun. You know, the putts are starting to go this week, and I kind of felt like they would, I just needed to stay a little bit more patient.   
 If I hit the ball a little bit better this weekend, I think I can still shoot another 10-under on the weekend hopefully.   
  
  Q. You had a shot at another good birdie there on 10.   
 JEFF MAGGERT: Yeah, it wasn't too bad. Today I had a lot more chances to make birdie. Yesterday I just made a lot of long putts, but today I was hitting the ball in 10, 12, 15 feet quite a bit. Made a few, missed a few, but made a couple long ones, too. So overall probably a better round today than yesterday, just in control. It never looked like I was going to get in much trouble.  
  
  Q. People talk about momentum. How can you sustain that? And mentally where do you focus to keep that momentum going for tomorrow's round?  
 JEFF MAGGERT: Well, with the guys playing so good on the leaderboard, it kind of forces you to be aggressive. You feel like you've got to go out and try to shoot 7- or 8-under to keep pace with the leaders. That keeps you in a mindset of being aggressive and shooting for the pin and trying to make as many birdies as you can.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT