SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 3, 2010
Jeff Maggert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JEFF MAGGERT

 Q. You're in contention for tomorrow.
 JEFF MAGGERT: Yeah. I mean, I played pretty well today, all week, really. The ball striking has been very good. Just club selection was a little difficult today. The wind was kind of swishing around on us a little bit. Other than that, felt like I made a few mistakes on club selections. But all in all, played very steady and gave myself an opportunity for tomorrow.

 Q. You've been in contention here many a times. How does it feel to be right there again on your 21st try?
 JEFF MAGGERT: Well, it's just nice to be playing good, you know. This golf course suits my game right now the way I'm hitting it. I'm not making a lot of mistakes. The golf course is pretty long for kind of a short hitter, but I think if I can go out tomorrow and just play the style of golf I've played for the next few days, I should be able to have a chance to win.

 Q. How much is it to be at home instead of restaurants all the time?
 JEFF MAGGERT: I seem to have played pretty well over this tournament in the last 20-some years. Obviously, being at home been maybe a little bit of an advantage. The old course we used to play was kind of my home course, so I knew it a little bit better than this one. But after playing over here three, four years now, I feel pretty comfortable on this one, and hopefully tomorrow it will be a good day for me.

 Q. What have you done better the last the last three, fours weeks?
 JEFF MAGGERT: Just eliminating a lot of little silly mental mistakes. Putting a little more consistent. I don't feel that I've putted all this well this week. Making the putts I need the make and giving myself an opportunity to shoot 3, 4-under everyday.

 Q. Pretty happy to be in this position?
 JEFF MAGGERT: Yeah. I've played well today. I thought I played my best round today. I was a little disappointed in 2-under. I felt like an opportunity to shoot 4, 5-under today, and so just go out tomorrow and keep playing, maybe the birdies will come tomorrow.

 Q. (Indiscernible)
JEFF MAGGERT: Maybe a little bit of a wakeup call. It's just a matter of just recommitting yourself. There's so many good players out here. You can't take it lightly, to come out every week and work hard and think hard and try to give yourself opportunities.

 Q. Tougher than it was 20 years ago out there?
 JEFF MAGGERT: In some respects, it's a little easier because the pressure is not probably as great as it used to be. But certainly the quality of competition has increased. You got to play just as well to win now as I did 15 years ago. So I just need to come out and play hard and really think, well, you know, just eliminate a lot of the little mental traps you can get yourself into and just play golf like I know how to play golf and the putts go in and have an excellent chance.

 Q. Sounds like they still remember you?
 JEFF MAGGERT: Hopefully. They're probably thinking God, a long time since I've seen that name on the leaderboard. We'll see. 
 I played well the last month and a half, and I have a little bit more confidence than I've had in a while, and I feel pretty good with the putter. I don't feel like I'm hitting really bad putts. They're just not going in. Go with the same game plan, eventually those putts will drop for me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT