CONSTELLATION SENIOR PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
July 13, 2018
Jeff Maggert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great round with a tough finish there.  Talk about 18.  
JEFF MAGGERT: Yeah, I just didn't have much of a rhythm, really, most of the day.  A lot of standing around waiting on the group in front of us to play.  The play was kind of slow and really couldn't get much of a rhythm going.  Made a nice bunker shot on 15 and just kind of hanging around there.  Had a lot of putts that had a chance to go in but didn't make them.  You know, playing steady, ball-striking is good, so looking forward to tomorrow.   
 Q.  The 18th green, just how frustrating was that?  
JEFF MAGGERT: Well, it happens.  You know, trying to leave it below the hole there is a premium, and I just got a little too far above, and the putt trickled by a little bit.  The greens were a little bouncier and choppier this afternoon late in the day with all the traffic from the morning rounds.  Anyway, putting feels pretty good, so I'm not worried about it.   
 Q.  Did you think that first putt was going in?  
JEFF MAGGERT: Not really.  It broke off line early, and it had a lot of speed on it when it got to the hole, so it didn't really have much of a chance.   
 Q.  Did you think that shot out of the bunker was going in right when you --  
JEFF MAGGERT: You know, I had a really good lie there, and the wind was blowing in my face, and I felt like I could get it close and save a par there.  You know, it hit just short of the pin and had a lot of spin on it.  Yeah, that was a good break there to make 4 there.  I was kind of making a mess of that hole a little bit, so to walk away with a 4 was a bonus for sure.   
 Q.  What's it going to take tomorrow to stay at the top?  
JEFF MAGGERT: I think the scores are going to still be well.  If we get some rain, the scores could even get better.  You know, probably stay on pace to shooting 20 or under or better by Sunday is kind of the game plan.   
 Q.  Do you get nerves when you're going to sleep at the top of the leaderboard?  
JEFF MAGGERT: Not after 35 years of playing as a pro.  This is a tournament I would very much like to win, one of our major championships on the Champions Tour.  I just want to play solid tomorrow.  My game is in good shape.  I've been hitting the ball well for a few months, so just keep doing what I'm doing and try to make a lot of birdies.   
 Q.  Is THE PLAYERS Championship on your mind at all when you're in contention at this tournament?  Is that any motivation?  
JEFF MAGGERT: Not -- I mean, it would be.  I'm not thinking too much ahead.  Just trying to take it one day at a time.  I think the last time I played there was 2014 or '15, so it would be nice to go back and play again.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT