TRANSITIONS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 20, 2010
Jeff Maggert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. We were talking a moment ago, it's been a different type of year for you, you went back to Q-School at age 45. What's this year been like for you? 
 JEFF MAGGERT: Well, the good thing is I'm playing some pretty good golf again, which I haven't done in a few years. It's just been tough, you know, trying to plan a schedule, being home with my family when I need to be, and I've had to play quite a bit more than I would like to play. I think this is my sixth tournament in a row, which I probably haven't done that in ten years. 
 You know, I'm just trying to play hard and get my game back in good shape and try to compete and win some tournaments.

 Q. Coming in here at the last minute as you did, are you at all surprised that you have played as well as you have? Normally guys like to get at least a couple of rounds in?
 JEFF MAGGERT: Yeah, I wasn't worried about the practice round. I've played here quite a few times. I like the golf course. I felt like if I got in there week, I would have a chance to play well, having played well the last few weeks. And here I am, grinding it out with a chance to win. 

 Q. You started at 6-under, ended at 7-under, a long day in the sun. Talk about your round?
 JEFF MAGGERT: Well, it wasn't my best ball-striking. I kind of grinded it out and shot a pretty good score today. 
 The golf course played pretty difficulty thought this afternoon. Obviously no one is really running away with it. A lot of scores around par, 1-, 2-, 3-under. I didn't shoot myself today, so I'll go out tomorrow and try to play a good round and make some birdies and have a chance to win. 

 Q. As you looked at that leaderboard, other than Jim Furyk, everybody is huddled at 7- or 8-under par after three rounds?
 JEFF MAGGERT: Like I said, the greens got firm and crusty this afternoon. We had a little bit of wind, and the golf course just plays tough under those conditions. 

 Q. Explain the toughness of the 18th pin location, because what happened to you, I've seen nine out of ten guys miss the short putt?
 JEFF MAGGERT: It's funny, it's probably the easiest pin on the green, but it's kind of a sucker pin to miss it over there to the right, and if you miss the green right, it's just a tough up-and-down.
 Being in a little lowly there, you shoot it to the middle of green and try to let it roll in there. I was disappointed. I played -- my up-and-downs were good today and made a lot of short putts. But anyway, we'll go at it tomorrow and try to improve.

 Q. Final thoughts on tomorrow, here you are, still have a shot after getting in at the last minute?
 JEFF MAGGERT: Well, that's just good fortune. Sorry to see Vijay pull out, but I had an opportunity and I wanted to make the best of it. I didn't want to come over here and come all the way over here and miss the cut. So just tried to play well and I've been playing a little bit better the last few weeks, so we'll see what happens tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT