TRANSITIONS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 18, 2010
Jeff Maggert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JEFF MAGGERT: I moved up to first alternate, I was debating whether to go on ahead and come on over and I just took the late flight last night.  
  
  Q. Talk about your round, you got to 4-under making the turn, you birdied 6, 7 and 9 and slowed down on the back side.   
 JEFF MAGGERT: The front nine, we didn't have much wind at all, kind of tame. And I think most of the birdies were made early today. And then in the afternoon towards the end, the wind started coming back and the golf course played tougher.  
  
  Q. On 17, that looked pretty good.   
 JEFF MAGGERT: Good putt there but tough pin today, tough hole, hitting a 2-iron in there making 3, a good score.  
 This golf course really suits my game. I enjoyed coming here in the past, and like I said, I wanted to get in this week, but I was kind of far out on the alternate list, but things worked out. I hope Vijay feels better. Obviously the tournament is going to miss him, but I'm just thankful for the opportunity.   
  
  Q. Talk about your round a little bit and getting in at the last minute.   
 JEFF MAGGERT: Yeah, obviously the round was good. I enjoy this golf course. I wish I didn't have to wait till the last minute to get in, but you know, it just worked out. I was eighth or ninth alternate late last week, and then guys withdrew, and then more guys Top-10'ed last week and kind of bumped me further back.   
 It just worked out. I came over late last night, got to the hotel about midnight. Worked out.   
  
  Q. And nice round, as well.   
 JEFF MAGGERT: Yeah, I've been playing well the last few months. I had a little problem at the Honda the first day, but other than that, I've played some pretty steady golf the last four or five weeks.   
 So I was looking forward to coming here and trying to play well.   
  
  Q. Talk about the conditions. A little breezy out there?  
 JEFF MAGGERT: The first seven or eight holes, it was pretty calm, and the back nine it really started to blow a little bit. The golf course played definitely a lot tougher the second nine.   
  
  Q. Does it help or hurt not to have played any practice rounds this week?  
 JEFF MAGGERT: Well, I know this course pretty well. I don't know how many tournaments I've played here; probably five or six, at least. So I didn't really feel like that was going be to an issue for me. I just wanted to, you know, come and have a chance to play.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT