VALERO TEXAS OPEN
May 14, 2009
Jeff Maggert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DOUG MILNE: Jeff Maggert, thanks for joining us for a few minutes after a very successful round one for you at the Valero Texas Open, 6-under, 64 today. Ended on obviously a high note. Just some comments on the round.   
 JEFF MAGGERT: Just a good solid ball-striking round today, just gave myself a lot of opportunities to make birdies.   
 I missed a few kind of short putts early in my round, but came back at the end and made a few, so kind of evened out. And just a good steady round.   
 Hopefully I can put up a few more of those back to back. I've been having trouble doing that this year, so hopefully I'll just play solid this week and have some fun and maybe I'll have a chance.  
 DOUG MILNE: Go ahead and take a few questions.  
  
  Q. A lot of discussion has been made this week about the Texas players feeling comfortable here, a lot of success over the years. Can you talk about that? This is obviously a course you've played several times.   
 JEFF MAGGERT: Yeah. I think this course kind of had a rough start the first couple years as far as getting players to feel comfortable there, but I've enjoyed the course from the very first year and just enjoyed the conditions.   
 Being close to home is always nice, and I think all the Texas players growing up on Bermudagrass and this type of weather just enjoy playing this type of golf course.  
  
  Q. Was it different? I know they had to put a little rye in there and everything because of the different growing conditions. Was it different than October?  
 JEFF MAGGERT: I think with the heat we've had the last month or so here in Texas, that most of that winter ryegrass seems to be kind of died out, so you can see a little bit of it in the greens and fairways, but I would say the conditions are pretty similar to what they were when we used to play in September.   
  
  Q. I guess you know as well as anybody coming into this tournament, when you shoot a 64, there will be a lot of 64s out there. You really have to assault the flag at this tournament.   
 JEFF MAGGERT: It's funny, some years you get some windy conditions and the course firms up and they don't shoot that low here, and other years you can come here and they shoot a lot of birdies and shoot low scores, so I think with the overcast conditions this morning, the greens were a little bit softer than what they have been the last couple days.   
 And it was windy, but not quite as windy as it was Tuesday and Wednesday, so I think the golf course probably played a little bit easier this morning. You know, if the course, the sun comes out and dries up a little bit, the scores may be a little higher later in the week.  
  
  Q. Did you take advantage of the opportunity to take the shuttle over to the new TPC over there?  
 JEFF MAGGERT: I haven't. I'm just hoping I still have a Tour card when they go over there. (Laughs).   
 You know, the TPC courses have been doing a good job at their facilities lately, so I'm sure it'll turn out well. And certainly Valero has been a great sponsor over the last few years, and we want to keep them happy, and I think they're going to be pleased with the move. And hopefully this tournament can grow into one of the best tournaments in Texas, if not on the Tour.   
 DOUG MILNE: Okay. Good playing. Keep it up and thanks for coming in. We appreciate your time.   
 JEFF MAGGERT: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT