CONSTELLATION SENIOR PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
July 12, 2018
Jeff Maggert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great round today, six birdies, three of which were back-to-back and almost a seventh there on 18.  Can you talk about that last putt?  
JEFF MAGGERT: Yeah, you know, I was a little worried on the break there on the speed, and I just hit it a little too soft, and it broke early and missed on the low side.  There's a lot of greens like that.  You've got to be careful, a lot of side-hillers with lots of break.  I played pretty steady today and made a few putts when I needed to.  Obviously a good start, drove the ball well.  Just kind of a mistake-free round.   
 Q.  Any benefit to playing with local Sluman?  
JEFF MAGGERT: Well, I don't think he's played the course much, but I got here on Tuesday and played the course and really enjoyed it, so I was looking forward to having a good week, kind of a good old-style, Chicago-style course, and it's in great shape, so looking forward to having three more good days.   
 Q.  How has your season been so far?  
JEFF MAGGERT: A little up and down.  I probably haven't put enough effort into it to really get on a run and play well.  Had a couple good tournaments about a month ago, but looking forward to a good summer here.  Looking forward to playing well here and then going over to the Senior British Open and playing well there.  Trying to finish the second half a little better than I started the first half.   
 Q.  Overall how good do you feel about your position after today?  
JEFF MAGGERT: You know, I think it's going to be a little bit of a shootout this week.  The fairways here are pretty generous, and guys on this TOUR play well and hit good shots, so we're going to have to keep on the gas pedal and keep making birdies.   
 Q.  Do you like the course like that?  
JEFF MAGGERT: Yeah, these scores can be kind of right on the edge.  I think if the greens firm up and get a little faster, you probably won't see as many low scores as you are today, but it's a ball-striker's court, and the greens are pretty receptive, so if you're driving it in the fairway and hitting your irons well, you're going to have a lot of opportunities for birdies.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT