SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
March 29, 2007
Jeff Maggert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Let's talk about your round.  How did it feel out there today? 
 JEFF MAGGERT:  Obviously 5-under is a good start.  I haven't played a lot of golf this year.  I was injured earlier in the year with the rib injury.  So I played some in Florida.  I was a little rusty, but I've been hitting the ball very well. 
 I feel like my health is back a hundred percent.  Just trying to play, you know, some consistent golf. 
 Things went pretty good today.  Made a few putts, and the golf course is in excellent shape.  The greens are pretty soft this morning, so I was hitting the ball well and able to make a lot of birdies. 

 Q.  Got to be a tough thing to have a come back from a rib injury? 
 JEFF MAGGERT:  Yeah.  I thought I could come back a little sooner than probably I should have.  I actually played the first couple weeks in Hawaii and it was hurting me pretty bad.  I was trying to play in Phoenix and really couldn't make a go of it and took another month off and gave it a chance to heal a little bit. 
 I was feeling okay in Florida, but I hadn't played enough golf to really play that well.  I've been practicing a little bit at home, and the three tournaments I've played in Florida, I got some good practice in and just feel like my game is kind of coming around.  Although it's three months into the season already, so I'm a little behind the players. 
 But it's a long year, you know, we play until the end of October.  So I've got a lot of tournaments, I hope. 

 Q.  Some familiarity with just this course and comfortable at all? 
 JEFF MAGGERT:  It's pretty new.  It's pretty new for everybody, being the second year.  The golf course is in excellent shape and, you know, I drove the ball extremely well today.  Put the ball in the fairway, and the greens are very receptive to iron shots. 
 I hit the ball probably a little bit better today than I have been in the last month or so and just made a few putts along the way. 

 Q.  How much was the wind a factor? 
 JEFF MAGGERT:  It's been windy all week since Monday, Tuesday, so we're kind of getting used to it.  It makes the golf course play a little bit tougher, the club selection gets a little bit more tricky, and, you know, I guess this is more typical in March with the wind than maybe we would have in a couple months. 
 But, you know, it's okay.  I think it's a good -- adds a lot to the course, makes you think out there and play the golf course with a little bit more course management. 

 Q.  Considering where you stand at this point, one short of the lead, is it the best case scenario coming off the injury? 
 JEFF MAGGERT:  Well, I got a feeling this course would probably be pretty good today because the greens are soft.  This course can play difficult if the greens firm up a little bit, but, you know, I just wanted to get off to a good start, you know. 
 I thought if I could shoot 2, 3, it would be a good start today, and things just went well for me.  Make a few more birdies. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT