VALERO TEXAS OPEN
September 23, 2005
Jeff Maggert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Okay, Jeff, 66 today, and right now you're at 11 under, 129 through two rounds of the '05 Valero Texas Open.  Just a couple thoughts about your round today.
JEFF MAGGERT:  Just very steady today, probably played a little more consistent today than yesterday.  I didn't hit the ball as close as I did yesterday, but certainly just hit the ball well and took advantage, made some birdies and had opportunities.  A couple times the short game helped me a little bit.  So overall just a good, solid round.
Q.  Were the pin placements any tougher today?
JEFF MAGGERT:  A little more wind today.  I thought some of the pins were a little bit more difficult to get the ball close to.  Playing in the morning, it was not too bad.  Towards the end it got a little bit more windy.  The golf course will maybe play a shot harder today than it did yesterday.
Q.  With the 25 mile an hour winds expected tomorrow, you've got to feel like you're in good shape where you are now with maybe this course coming back a little bit?
JEFF MAGGERT:  Yeah, normally we get a little wind on this course, not 25 miles an hour, but the golf course is challenging with a little 10 or 15 mile an hour wind on it, so I'm sure if it does blow 20 or 25, it's going to be    driving the ball in the fairway is going to be very important, just managing your game around the greens is going to be important.
Q.  I know yesterday was a pretty busy day for you.  Were you able to get some sleep last night or what did you do last night?
JEFF MAGGERT:  I don't think I made it past about 8:45.  We got the babies down around 8:00 and started watching a little TV, and next thing I knew, I was sound asleep.  The twins did good last night, just one little wake up about 12:30, but he went right back to sleep.
Q.  It's different having a family here but must be nice.
JEFF MAGGERT:  Yeah, it is nice.  It's a little cramped traveling sometimes compared to home, but it is nice to have them out every now and then.
PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Just want to run through your four birdies and any good saves.
JEFF MAGGERT:  First hole, par 5, made about a 10  or 15  footer there.

No. 4, same thing, 10 or 15 feet.
PHIL STAMBAUGH:  What did you hit into 4?
JEFF MAGGERT:  6 iron into 4.

7 was playing downwind today, so I went for the green with a driver and hit it just over the green in the back trap and got it up and down for birdie.

Then 14, the par 5, was playing downwind, playing short today, hit 8 iron to the green there and two putted for birdie.
Q.  Would you say the back nine is a little bit tougher than the front and that's kind of    14 you can totally take advantage of?
JEFF MAGGERT:  Yeah, the back nine, you've got to be careful.  If you don't drive the ball in the fairway on the back nine, you can screw up pretty easily.  That was the key, I think.  I don't know if I missed any fairways, maybe one or two today.  I drove the ball very well.
Q.  You know, you said you haven't been playing a whole lot.  Did you feel like you were due for a good tournament?  Did you come in thinking that, or is this kind of a surprise, putting together these good rounds?
JEFF MAGGERT:  I've been playing okay, I just haven't really put a lot of good scores together.  I just felt like I was going to play better this fall than I had been playing, and I'm just trying to stay patient.  I had a pretty good tournament up in Hartford and then I missed the cut the following week in Boston, had a bad round over at 84 Lumber last week, so it's kind of been hit or miss, but I feel like I'm playing well and just trying to stay patient.
Q.  You've played here a lot, haven't you?
JEFF MAGGERT:  I've played here quite a few times.  I kind of like the golf course and I seem to play pretty well here most of the time.  It's nice with the hotel here now, just kind of a nice week.
PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Thank you, Jeff.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT