U.S. SENIOR OPEN
July 2, 2017
Jeff Maggert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JEFF MAGGERT: It's played pretty steady this week.  I've been playing a little better.  I haven't played really great this year.  So I'm just trying to get my game a little bit more organized and looking forward to the rest of the season.
Q. In your mind, today's conditions similar to what other day or other days during the course?
JEFF MAGGERT: I think the greens will play a lot firmer this afternoon than they did this morning.  I was kind of licking my chops a little bit today.
I felt like I could get seven or eight birdies out there today.  I was a little short of that.  The greens are going to firm up this afternoon.
If you hit your irons well, though, the greens are receptive, and you can still shoot some good scores.
Q. Do you see any other scenario other than where Kenny or Kirk wins?
JEFF MAGGERT: That's a big lead.  They're five, six shots ahead.  Both of them are going to have to really stumble, and then someone else is going to have to play really, really well.  I think Brandt Jobe is the closest.
It's definitely going to take someone getting to 12, 13 under probably from behind to have a chance.  It's going to be tough to shoot 5, 6, 7 under and have those guys -- if those guys shoot a couple under, then you know they're going to be the ones.
Q. Any of the holes that you saw today that could be a deciding factor for the leaders?
JEFF MAGGERT: You know, the wind direction seemed to change today.  17 and 18 played really pretty short.  I hit a bad drive on 17, but I hit an average drive on 18 and only had an 8 iron to the flag there.  So guys like Kenny Perry will be hitting wedges in there.
15 was challenging.  They had a tough pin on 15.  It was playing about 228 into the wind.
Again, the other hole, the par 5 14, just kind of got a little downwind, crosswind.  So the big hitters are probably going to be hitting irons in there this afternoon.
I think the meat of the golf course is probably on the front nine, just to survive that front nine and try to hit a lot of good shots and give yourself opportunities and just eliminate mistakes on the front nine.
And the back nine, if you hit the ball well, you can shoot a good score.
Q. Kenny's been through this before, but it's a different thing for Kirk Triplett.  Is there anything, having gone through this, that Kirk has to deal with mentally?
JEFF MAGGERT: Kirk's won on the Champions Tour.  He's got a lot of experience out here.  He plays very intelligent golf.  So that's going to be an advantage for him today.  I think not to get caught up in the moment of what's going on and just play his game is going to be his key.  He's got good patience, and it seems like he's got the golf course figured out, obviously.  He's shooting good scores.  If he keeps doing what he's been doing, he'll be tough.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT