WACHOVIA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 8, 2004
Jeff Maggert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CHRIS REIMER:  Thank you, Jeff Maggert, for joining us 5-under for the day, 9-under for the tournament.  Talk about your day.
JEFF MAGGERT:  I kind of made up for some poor shots today with a good short game and some good putting.  I got off to a good start, you know, with birdies on the first two holes.  That was kind of the story of the day.  I played much better, I thought, on the front nine and kind of struggled ball-striking-wise on the back nine.  Made a nice probably 25-footer for par on 16, and got it up-and-down on 17 and 18 to save a good score.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
JEFF MAGGERT:  These greens are difficult to read.  I think it's definitely helped.  He caddied for me in the practice round Tuesday and I wasn't really sure.  I asked him if he was comfortable reading the greens and he just kind of said, I feel like I can read them okay, but I don't think he really wanted to step up and say anything on Tuesday, and then I asked him to read a few putts on Thursday's round and he was right on.  And a couple of times where I wasn't quite sure, he picked a couple of lines and I made the putts, so ever since then I've been using him for almost every putt and he's really reading the greens well.

I guess the biggest thing is, I feel I read greens pretty well, but all the putts that I've read this week, it's kind of like a second opinion, and we've been right on together on almost every putt.  Sometimes if you have a guy reading putts and he's always different from you, then you don't know to believe yourself or to believe him, but we've been right on together all week.  It's probably helped my confidence more than anything.
Q.  What's his name?
JEFF MAGGERT:  Mark Miller.
Q.  Your regular caddie, do you have a regular one?
JEFF MAGGERT:  I've had a regular caddie that worked for me for a long time, and we decided to kind of take a break this summer.  My wife is expecting twins in the first part of September, and I wasn't going to play much this fall.  I'm going to give him an opportunity to try to find a different player to work for the rest of the summer and the fall and probably the first part of next year.

Sometimes you're with a caddie for so long, things get kind of stagnate and both of you are just kind of standing around kind of waiting for good things to happen and sometimes it's good to change a caddie.  For me it's made me focus a bit more on playing golf.

Mark is very excited about working this week.  He's had a great attitude out there.  He's never really -- I made three bogeys in a row yesterday, and he was right there with me, so he's been very good this week.  Just by the three or four days I've worked with him, I would say he's been caddying out here ten years.  I wouldn't know the difference.  He really does his job well and knows what he's doing.
Q.  Do you know where he normally works, and is there any chance you would use him again or keep him with you for a little while?
JEFF MAGGERT:  Well, I haven't discussed that with him, but if the situation works out somewhere down the road, you know, maybe a tournament this summer, I'd like to give him the opportunity.  I'm set with a caddie next week and the week after at Colonial, but maybe later on in the summer, certainly, if he's willing to do it.  It would be a possibility.
Q.  Where is he from?
JEFF MAGGERT:  He's from Charlotte.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
JEFF MAGGERT:  For me, for bentgrass greens, they seem to have a lot of grain in the grass and there is a lot of slope.  I would say the greens are probably closest to Augusta style greens that we play all year, not quite as fast, but certainly a lot of little slopes and undulations, and if you're on the wrong side of the hole, the putts are tough to make.

Sometimes when the greens have a lot of slope, they're a little bit easier to read.  Where they're putting the pins this week, they look flat, but they're not.  There are little swells in the green and I think definitely the grain is affecting some of the putts.
Q.  You made a late charge (Inaudible)?
JEFF MAGGERT:  Yesterday I did.  I got off to a really good start and I bogeyed 18 and then bogeyed 1 and No. 2.  It took a lot of the wind out of my round and I just kind of hung in there and made eagle at 5 and birdied 7, so I just kind of got it back at the end yesterday and then I finished with a bogey on 9.  Yesterday was a little bit more of a roller coaster up-and-down.  Two eagles yesterday and a few birdies and I think four or five bogeys.
Q.  Is the course playing easier?
JEFF MAGGERT:  I thought it was playing a little bit tougher today.  The greens are starting to firm up a little bit.  The last two holes I was really surprised at how firm the greens were.  And tomorrow, the golf course will probably play a little bit tougher.  Today it was probably the hottest day that we've had this week, and certainly with the sunshine all weeklong, the greens are starting to firm up, and they're playing a little bit more difficult.

The other thing about this golf course is the fairways are pretty firm and the ball is running and there are a lot of doglegs.  A lot of the doglegs, with the slope of the fairway kind of away from the dogleg, so it makes hitting the fairway extremely difficult.  The new golf balls and drivers, it's hard to curve the ball the way we used to, so we hit a lot of straight shots and if you don't pick the lines well on the doglegs, you find yourself missing the fairways by three or four yards.
CHRIS REIMER:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT