U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2002
Jeff Maggert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JEFF MAGGERT:  It was a good week, it was a lot of fun.  It was special playing with Phil today.  Man, I've never seen a crowd behind a player more than that in a round of golf.  It was amazing.  As for myself, I wish I would have played better today.  I didn't drive the ball really well enough to give myself an opportunity to make some birdies.  Deep down inside I thought it was a 4- or 5-under round today to have a chance, and without being in the fairway often enough I really put myself behind the 8 ball.  So -- but I'm excited with my week, definitely my game is getting better.  I think I have more work to do on my golf swing, but this is definitely a good stepping-stone in the right direction. 

Q.   Did it remind you of the Ryder Cup, the crowd?
JEFF MAGGERT:  Very similar to the Ryder Cup, definitely.  Just the yelling and screaming on every shot.  It was amazing all day long.  Phil played a pretty solid round today.  Obviously he probably wished he could have made more birdies at the end.  But Tiger hung in there tough.  He made a couple of early bogeys, but came back with the birdies when he needed them.  He never really opened the door wide enough for them to get in.

Q.   I can't imagine anything harder than Friday, but was it difficult today with the breeze at first and then the rain?
JEFF MAGGERT:  It was definitely difficult with the breeze.  Actually I didn't mind that, it kind of played into my favor, because if I could have played a solid round on a tough day and shoot a couple, 3-under, my chances would have been pretty good.  But it was strange.  When we got to the 11th hole, it was dead calm the rest of the way in.  So certainly for us, the last couple of groups on the course, those last seven or eight holes definitely played a lot easier than they were for most of the guys.

Q.   Talk about Phil finishing in a bridesmaid's chair again.  What in his round suggested that this guy came out and played, do what he had to do, or at least as much as he could today?
JEFF MAGGERT:   All things said, to come out here and shoot 4- or 5-under today would be a career round in anybody's book.  And five shots behind, going into the last day in this tournament may not seem that much.  But when the guy in the lead stays at 5-under and doesn't move back towards the field, it's just difficult.  And Phil played a great round today.  He made a couple of mistakes with the driver that probably hurt him.  But he got a couple of birdies on the back 9, got it to 2-under, I think he was two behind Tiger at that point.  It could have gone either way, but Tiger hung in there.  I think Tiger birdied 14 to get back to five and Phil never got any closer.

Q.   Could you talk about what happened on three, and then the two birdies you made to get back, to get those shots back?
JEFF MAGGERT:  Double bogey on the third hole was definitely not what I was looking for when I'm trying to shoot three or four or 5-under today.  But it happens.  I was in that bunker and I had a perfect lie.  And I don't know, I just tried to hit it too good, I guess, and just kind of half bladed and half shanked it.  I've had about a dozen shanks this year the way I've been hitting it.  I wasn't really rattled.  If it would have been any other year I might have been scratching my head.  I was like, here we go again.  And I tried to make a good 4 there, but missed kind of a short putt there.  But that was a good comeback, birdying 4 and 5, to get back to even at that point.  I liked my chances of being able to shoot a good score from there.  But certainly the birdies on 4, 5 is definitely put me back in it.

Q.   When did you feel you were too far out, was it after 7 or later?
JEFF MAGGERT:  Actually when we came back from the rain delay, I had a short putt on 12 for par.  I was a little nervous, I wanted to get that in.  And with the soft conditions, I was thinking birdie -- if you could birdie three or four holes coming in, which realistically was possible, given the conditions, I thought I'd have a chance.  And I didn't birdie 13 or 14, which are definitely birdie holes.  And then I drove it in the rough on 15 and made bogey, so it was kind of my tournament there.  It's tough touch to keep yourself motivated.  I'm sure my caddy was trying to keep me going, looking at the score board, but when you get to this point, especially in my career, seconds, thirds, fourths, fifths, it's a good week, but there's really no difference between a third or fourth or fifth.

Q.   Did you watch the leader boards much today or did you just listen to the crowd?
JEFF MAGGERT:  You could pretty much tell by the crowd.  But there's not a lot of leader boards on this golf course, not until you get to the back 9.  I don't remember ever seeing a leaderboard on the front 9.  I think there's one on the 9th hole, but I didn't pay attention to it much, until -- towards the end, there, everyone was watching Tiger, to see what he was going to do, if he was coming back to the field any, but he never did.

Q.   18 professional majors has always been the gold standard.  Does Tiger have to have a resume that looks like that, before you can start calling him the greatest player ever?
JEFF MAGGERT:  You know, it's safe to say that he's the greatest player his age that's ever been.  I don't think you can compare it to Nicklaus or Hogan or whatever.  He's got 20 years ahead of him.  There's just no -- there's no telling what he can accomplish over the next 20 years.  Maybe more than that.  He might be winning tournaments when it's 60, who knows. 

Q.   Some of the perks, you're back in the Open, you're in Augusta.  Was that in your mind at all today?
JEFF MAGGERT:  You know, really I was more concerned about the British Open.  I don't know if my finish here will qualify me for the British Open.  I wasn't really worried about The Masters.  But it will be nice to get back to Augusta.  I missed Augusta this year.  I think I had a streak of about 40 major championships in a row, and not being at Augusta this year was definitely kind of a low point.  But it will be fun to get back and maybe this will start another streak of 40 more majors in a row. 





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT