U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2002
Jeff Maggert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







RAND JERRIS:  Two birdies, no bogeys, a fine round.
JEFF MAGGERT:  Definitely not an up-and-down round, but a fine round, for sure.  To be honest with you, probably the best round I've played in my mind in probably a year.  I've been struggling with my golf game and my golf swing, hit a couple of errant tee shots in the beginning, but played very well, hit most of the fairways.  I hit a lot of shots close to the hole, a lot of good putts, made some.

Putts and just shot a good, solid round of golf. 

RAND JERRIS:  Walk us through your club selections on your two birdies.
JEFF MAGGERT:  Birdied the par-5, the 4th hole.  I laid it up there about 70 yards from the pin.  I hit a lob wedge in there about a foot from the hole.  It was an easy birdie there.
The other birdie was on 14, probably about a 15-foot putt from right behind the hole.  I hit an 8-iron there. 

Q.   Had there been anything leading up to this week that made you think that you could play well this week?  I know you've been struggling. 
JEFF MAGGERT:  It's been kind of a strange year.  At times I've played some good rounds, but never really kind have put together a decent tournament.  I played a very good round last week at the Buick on Saturday, played real steady and then followed it up with a nice seven or eight over on Sunday, so not really what I was looking for coming into this week as far as confidence goes.  But I just felt like I was starting to hit the ball better and get a little bit better feel for my swing. 
So probably the toughest part of this week was yesterday playing in the weather and the rain jacket and rain gear, and not being able to get a good feel to what I've been working on on my golf swing.  And I struggled more yesterday because of that certainly than I did on Thursday or today.  But it's coming around.  If I'm in the fairway I feel very confident that I can get the ball close to the hole and have some birdie putts.

Q.   What have you been working on on your swing?
JEFF MAGGERT:  I've been getting the club a little bit on the inside and the club face, a little shut on about the first two or three feet of my back swing.  And I have a hard time recovering from that little move and I've been trying to get the club going a little bit more outside my hands.  And it seems like a simple thing to fix, but it's been very, very difficult.

Q.   When you go into the weekend play in a major and you're a number of shots off the lead, what's the mindset, how do you stay focused, even though the conditions are better obviously than Friday, how do you get yourself motivated to come in and play strong?
JEFF MAGGERT:  Well, it's easier to play when you're a few shots behind, especially when the course was susceptible to some birdies today.  I just try to play aggressive.  I knew Tiger was going to have probably an easy time today, just like everyone else.  He had an opportunity to shoot a low score today and if he would have done that, we would have been very difficult tomorrow.  But it looks like he struggled a little bit with his game today and there's some players that shot some good scores and kind of put themselves back with a chance to win.  And I think tomorrow is going to be a similar situation.  I was very surprised today with the golf course setup with all the pins on the front of the greens in soft conditions, those are the easiest pins to play at because you can hit it behind the hole and spin it back.  And I'm sure you guys saw that all day long on television.  Just about every single pin was right on the front of the green. 
The golf course definitely played about as easy as it could have played today, when the greens are soft and the pins are in the back of the green forces you to hit it at least pin-high, and it brings the trouble in behind the greens.  Today you could basically shoot right from the middle of the green, and spin it back right to the hole.

Q.   In addition to all the great golf that you and Sergio and Phil played out there today, there seemed to be another story which was the crowd involvement.  You couldn't get away from it when you were out there.  Can you talk about what it was like playing with Sergio, who seemed to have more crowd involvement than anyone else out there and how hard it was to play in that environment?
JEFF MAGGERT:  Well, Sergio put the ball in the fans court with his comments yesterday, but you just have to be careful what you say sometimes.  Sergio is a great guy, and he's a great player and I thought he handled the crowds today magnificently.  All in all the crowds -- the comments were typical, what you expect.  But there was a few instances where he's actually trying to play his shot and someone's yelling something.  And when that happens, that's overboard.  I knew people were going to yell stuff when he's walking down the fairway and all that stuff.  But for the most part today it was pretty well.  Until you get to the 15th tee and you get in that area where all the crowds are and then some of the comments were pushing the limit, especially when he's trying to play the shots. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT