PGA TOUR MEDIA CONFERENCE
February 16, 2000
Jeff Maggert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 JEFF MAGGERT: Yeah.  
 
 JEFF MAGGERT: Well, I'm excited about going back. Obviously it was a big win for me
last year, having gone five years not winning. But I've had a great year. I didn't play
too well at the end of last year. I was a little bit tired, but I took a couple months
off, November, December. Feel really good about my game the first couple of months in the
year. I've been hitting the ball really well. I'm just looking forward to getting back and
trying to win it again. As far as playing Bob the first round, Bob is going to be a tough
guy to beat. But, you know, as we saw last year, it real doesn't matter who you play.
Anybody out there has the ability to win and beat you, so you just have to go out and play
well and hopefully you can get a few good bounces go your way and win the match. 
 
Q. Because of the nature of this event, is it more difficult to defend than a typical
PGA TOUR event? 
 
 JEFF MAGGERT: I don't know, it's difficult to defend any tournament. The caliber of
play out here is so tough, and so many things can happen to your game in the course of 12
months. You know, your game has to be, you know, really top notch to win, and to have all
that, you know, go in sync 12 months later is tough to do sometimes. You know, I love the
match play format. I feel like my game can take that format very well, especially over six
matches. And you do have to have a little bit of luck on your side, but certainly the way
I'm playing, I have built some good confidence to play well next week. 
 
Q. How do you go about after having the string of stroke-play tournaments, won after
the other, and then all of the sudden here comes the match play, how do you change your
mind set, and how is it a different kind of mental approach? 
 
 JEFF MAGGERT: Well, I think a lot of players after playing the tournament last year are
going to know what to expect. I think last year was new to most of the players. A few of
the players have played some team competitions. But as far as changing your mind set, I
think you just have to have a lot of confidence in your game. I think the most important
thing is you -- you know, you have to realize that it is one -- one tournament, one day at
a time, and each day is a new tournament and you have to approach every day with a lot of
enthusiasm and a lot of confidence in your game, because, you know, in match play if
you're not playing well, you can kind of get a little bit out of your rhythm and you might
have a bad round over four days, and you can recover and play well the other three and
still have a good tournament and even have a chance to win. But in match play, you have to
play well every day. You can't afford to slip up any one day. And that's the way I tried
to approach it last year, and every day was a new tournament. You know, either you played
well and you had a chance to keep going or if you don't play well, you pack your bags and
go home. 
 
Q. When you say you feel like your game can take this format well, is that primarily
because of your driving, your accuracy? 
 
 JEFF MAGGERT: A little of everything. I have a very steady golf game. I feel like I
play pretty intelligent golf. I don't make a lot of mistakes. I'm not going to give up
holes that I shouldn't be, and I have a lot of experience I feel like in match play
format. I've played three Ryder Cups and the Presidents Cup, and obviously, I played well
last year in the match play. So I just have a lot of confidence in my game. I don't get
intimidated by who I'm playing. I feel like I can compete against anybody, you know,
whether it's Tiger Woods or anyone else. I feel like I have the game to beat those guys,
especially when you're just playing one round. It really brings the competitiveness
together. Obviously Tiger is playing very well and over the course of four or five days,
he's a tough guy to beat right now. But I don't have any, you know, worries about having
to face a guy like that in a match and being able to beat him. You know, I feel like my
game is at a level where I can do that against any of the other players in the field. 
 
Q. We made a big deal last year about how 9 of the Top-10 seeds, how quickly they fell
and how there was such a fine line between 1 and 64, but when you players look at the
brackets and you look at the drawings, do you look at players who have games like yours
who are really suited to match play? Do you make mental notes of that?
 
 JEFF MAGGERT: I don't look at the rankings. I don't look and see that Bob Tway is
ranked 40-something whatever. I'm going to have a good chance of beating him. I think
you're going to look more at the players and what he's accomplished in his career.
Obviously, Bob Tway has done a lot of good things in his career and he knows how to win
and he's going to be a tough opponent. I think you're going to see a lot of what you saw
last year. You're going to see, you know, some guys get beat that are ranked Top-10, and
it's not because, you know, they didn't play well. It's because there's a lot of good
players in the field. You know, I think we can get used to seeing kind of what we saw last
year and I think that tournament's going to be that way all the time. It's just you have
to get used to the fact that there's pretty darned good golfers out there playing and
every match is going to be competitive. You know, the guy who wins on Sunday is going to
be the guy who played some really good golf that week. 
 
Q. How much does last year's experience, going through all five days and taking that
approach like you said, treating each day like a tournament in and of itself, how much is
that going to help you, that experience from last year, being able to go through the whole
tournament and survive, winning it? 
 
 JEFF MAGGERT: If I play well, I guess it will look like it helped me a lot. If I lose
in the first round, it will look like it didn't help me at all. It's hard to say. I think
more than anything, it's just confidence, and I do have a lot of confidence going into the
tournament. I think obviously the way I've played last year only helps that confidence. I
am playing well. I feel like my game might actually be a little bit better than it was
last year going into the tournament. 
 
Q. It's kind of a cute story last year, talking about how your son didn't want you to
play Tiger the night before and you ended up beating him. I'm wondering with the
postscript of that, if you went up a few octanes in his mind as a golfer?
 
 JEFF MAGGERT: I think I probably rallied around that a little bit. But it is -- you
know, Tiger has done a lot of great things. You know, it was just a lot of fun, and I
think, you know, it kind of put a little different outlook that he had on the game of
golf. He plays a little bit himself, and he was in awe of Tiger, just like everyone else
is. But I told my son, actually on Monday, I was telling him, I said, "Man, I wish
Tiger would have won that tournament Sunday; that way I could have ended his streak down
there." And he was saying, "Yeah, you'd better watch out, he might win
again." Anyway, but I would like to play the best winners in the world and beat them
. If I get a chance to play Tiger again next week, it's going to be a lot of fun. But it
will also be tough to beat him, I know that. 
 
Q. How do you compare this tournament to a major? 
 
 JEFF MAGGERT: Well, I think the four majors and The PLAYERS Championship, if you want
to say that's a 5th major, really, those five tournaments are still probably the most
important tournaments to the players. Certainly, you know the World Golf Championships is
a great concept, and I think over time, especially the match play tournament because it is
a format that we don't play, really at any time else. I think all the tournaments will
grow in stature and to be on the level of the four majors and some of the other more
established tournaments, I think it's just going to take some time. 
 
Q. I have a two-parter for you. Do you think that the addition of these new events in
the match play is that fun for you guys to mix it up from the 72-hole tournaments with the
match play format? And secondly, are you hoping that you get some good results out of this
championship like you did last year to boost you towards possibly a Presidents Cup berth
this year?
 
 JEFF MAGGERT: I am looking forward to the tournament maybe kind of jump-starting my
year. I'm just starting to play really good right now. I have a lot of confidence.
Hopefully, I can play well out here in L.A. to be honest with you, I'm really looking
forward, you know, to the Nissan tournament this week. The way I'm playing, I am thinking
a little bit about the match play, but I haven't -- I really haven't put a whole lot of
thought about next week, other than I'm looking forward to going back and trying to win.
As far as the Presidents Cup, I'd like to make the team. I think I've played the first
Presidents Cup in '94, and I certainly think that my experience in the Ryder Cup and
Presidents Cup, I could be a benefit to the team. So hopefully I can play well over the
next few months and be on the team. 
 
Q. With the change in format where you've got 36 holes on Saturday followed by the
36-hole finale on Sunday, obviously done to get fan interest and TV interest a little bit
higher up, but as a player, how tough is that to survive 72 holes and to walk away with a
win?
 
 JEFF MAGGERT: I think Sunday is going to be the factor there. Last year, we had kind of
a day of rest before Sunday with just one match. But, you know, both players are going to
be tired on Sunday afternoon, there's no doubt. About two years ago, I started a fitness
program, running and doing some weights and I really feel like it helped me in the
tournament last year as far as my physical conditioning. I've been on the same program all
of this year, as well, so I feel like I might have a slight edge over some of the players
because I have, you know, worked hard on my physical condition. And if I do make it to
Sunday, hopefully it will be an advantage. 
 
Q. How much luck do you think is involved in this tournament? Obviously you can't play
your A Game every day, you just need to not run into someone else having their A Game as
well? 
 
 JEFF MAGGERT: I don't think it's any more or less than any other tournament on the
TOUR. You have to have a little luck to win tournaments. You have to be lucky and make
some long putts when you absolutely have to have them. I think we've seen that in Tiger
Woods' streak. At times, he's, you know, the 30- and 40-footers that are just not everyday
putts that you make, you know, you see him make. You know, you see him knock them in like
he's been doing forever, and a lot of that's luck. I mean, you have to have some luck on
your side. You know, certainly, to win, you have to play really well over the course of
six matches, but you have to have some good bounces along the way.  
 
Q. Before winning last year, you had had a long string of runner-up finishes, and then
you finally got the win in match play. Does that help in terms of knowing what it takes to
win in a tournament like this? 
 
 JEFF MAGGERT: I think. So I think when you put yourself in a position on Sunday to be
in the heat of the battle and to experience all that, I think that's good -- good
experience for match play because, you know, every match is like a Sunday afternoon. It's
do or die. Either you play well and win in order to keep playing or you lose and you go
home. So I think certainly being, you know, in a position to win a lot of tournaments on
Sunday afternoon is good experience. 
 
Q. Last year, I think every one of your matches except the one with Tiger went to the
18th hole or the final hole and you were trailing in about 50 of all the holes that you
played. I'm curious how much mental strength is an asset, if not more of an asset, than
any physical skills? 
 
 JEFF MAGGERT: I think confidence is a better word. I was down in some of my matches,
but I always had the confidence, you know, that I could come back. I think -- you know, I
never got -- I never dug myself a really large hole. 1 or 2-down occasionally in some of
the matches. But I think for me the key to the tournament last year was a stretch of holes
like 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16. I really played those very well all week. I don't know
how many under par I was on those particular holes, but it seemed like every match I was
down in, you know, I might have been down at 9, but by 15 or 16, I was 1- or 2-up. I just
had a lot of success on those holes, and I think that was the difference in just about
every one of my matches. I just played really good golf in that stretch.  
 
Q. Did you ever have a bad day, Wednesday through Sunday?
 
 JEFF MAGGERT: I played steady golf all week. I didn't have any -- I didn't really shoot
lights out in any of my rounds. I don't think I had any round where I was 6- or 7-under.
Most of my rounds, I was probably 1-under, 2-under, 3-under. You know, I just played
really steady in all my matches. I won't over par in any of my matches. I don't remember
being over par in any single match. I think Andrew mentioned that one match that he had
won, you know, he was 2- or 3-over par and still won, which sometimes you have to have
that happen to you to make it to the finals. You have to have that day where, you know,
you might not play so well, but then your opponent doesn't play well, either.  
 
Q. Last year, all of us in the media were a little bit fixated on the seedings and
looking at all of those as potential upsets. Are you hopeful that last year's results and
the way things shook out will put an end to that?
 
 JEFF MAGGERT: I think everyone knows what to expect, and I think you can see a lot more
of the same. Certainly, everyone would have loved to have seen Tiger and David play for it
all on Sunday last year. And who knows, maybe that's the way it will turn out this year.
But certainly, I think the odds are against that. The quality of play out there is pretty
stiff. I think there will be some upsets. You know, everyone and their brother, I'm sure,
is pulling for Tiger to play Sunday. I know it's good for the sponsors and television
ratings and all that, but, you know, there's a lot of good players out there. You know,
who knows, it could end up with a couple of nobodies like myself again.  
 
Q. What constitutes an upset? Is there such a thing in this tournament?
 
 JEFF MAGGERT: I don't really think so. You know, people will talk about it and write
about it as an upset. You know, I'm sure if Tiger loses in the first round, everyone is
going to say what a huge upset that was. You know, it's -- over the course of just one
round, it's easy for these guys to win. I don't know who Tiger is playing the first round
--. 
 
 JEFF MAGGERT: That guy is on a hot streak. I read in the paper he's won three or four
of his last five tournaments. Obviously, he's playing really well, and if he comes over
and plays well, he's got a chance to beat Tiger. 
 
Q. Talking about your steady play, Jeff, and how you're pretty consistent, pretty
smart, won't really give it away, what about a guy like Campbell, and he's off again and
now he seems to have found it. Is he as dangerous as anybody, or are you looking at the
steady guys that are going to make it all the way through?
 
 JEFF MAGGERT: I think probably the steady guys are tougher to beat, usually. But, you
know, the thing is, a guy like Michael Campbell, if he gets hot and shoots seven or eight
birdies, what are you going to do? There's not much that you can do. You know, every match
is different. You can't really make any predictions or really try to anticipate what might
happen from the other player. The attitude that I usually have is, you know, the guy that
I'm playing is going to make a lot of birdies and I'm going to have to go make a lot of
birdies to beat him. Just don't expect your opponent to give you anything. Just expect to
have to play hard and make birdies to win. 
 
Q. You mentioned the comparison to the majors. I just wondered in your mind what is the
difference between the mystique of a major and one that has such a huge purse at this one?

 
 JEFF MAGGERT: Well, tradition and history has a lot to do with it. The four majors are
just kind of our -- that's how we're judged in our careers, you know, did you win any
majors. And if you did, which ones. That's just kind of the standard that we're judged by.
You know, I think The PLAYERS Championship is really elevated up into that status as
probably the 5th major, but I think the World Golf Championships will, you know, will take
time. I don't think the prize money can make a tournament, you know, into the stature of
one of the other majors. Certainly, when you're playing for a lot of money and $1 million
to the winner, it piques everybody's interests, and even the players, the players put a
lot of emphasis on those tournaments. They want to play well and they want to win. 
 
Q. Do you think the Europeans and the other players coming from overseas are at a
disadvantage because of jet lag and the whole tiresome travel bit? Are the Americans going
to be in a disadvantage next year when you have to go to Australia? 
 
 JEFF MAGGERT: I think that does make it tough. I think, you know, to play six days of
golf, if you've just flown across seven or eight time zones is tough. I think as far as
going to Australia, I think just about all of the players are going to be in the same boat
there, the Americans and the Europeans, whoever. Everyone is going to be traveling through
a lot of time zones to get to Australia. There will be a few Australian players,
obviously, that are at home, but probably 90% of the field is going to be traveling in
there.  
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 JEFF MAGGERT: I think there will be some players that probably skip. I would like to
see all of the players eligible compete. But it is -- it's a tough schedule, you know,
being the first week of the year. You know, I don't know, I'm not going to judge a player
one way or the other whether he chooses to play, but I would hope everyone makes the
effort to go down. Certainly with the Tournament of Champions, the Mercedes Tournament
being the week after in Hawaii makes the travel a little bit more convenient. It's not as
bad traveling to and from Hawaii as it is some of the other places you can be in.  
 
End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT