WGC AMERICAN EXPRESS CHAMPIONSHIP
November 4, 1999
Jeff Maggert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JEFF MAGGERT: I played pretty solid today. I made a few mistakes. I just played a good
solid round, I kept the ball in play. It's important to keep the ball in the fairway here,
obviously. And I'm pleased with my start. I haven't really hit the ball all that well the
last few months. I've got a new set of irons that I've worked pretty hard with the last
three or four weeks, and I worked on it a little bit on Tuesday. So I felt like I
fine-tuned pretty good for my game right now. I've got a little more confidence in the way
I'm swinging, and I'm hitting the ball really well with my irons. So hopefully I can just
play steady this week. If I drive the ball well I feel like I have a good shot to have a
chance to win on Sunday.

Q. It's obviously kind of breezy; talk about the conditions and also if you like being
the first group out?

JEFF MAGGERT: It was breezy. It made play pretty difficult. I don't think the scores
are going to be really low today. I'm pleased with one under. A good start to the
tournament. Playing early sometimes is an advantage, but the wind was definitely windy
this morning. The only really big advantage is probably the greens. I think the greens are
going to have a tendency to spike up pretty bad this week. So being first off, the greens
were just perfect to putt on. And I like to play, I'm a pretty fast player, so it was fun
to get out without anybody in front of me and just kind of -- played in about 3 hours and
25 minutes. It was a nice pace to the round, and just had a good rhythm all day.

Q. How long have you had the irons, Jeff?

JEFF MAGGERT: Actually started playing them back in August. Actually the last World
Golf Championship Golf Tournament in Akron, Ohio was the first week I started playing the
irons. I kind of went back and forth for a couple of tournaments to my old set. But these
are a new iron, a Ping iron, the I-3's. I really like the club. It's just taking me a
little bit of time to get the loft and lies kind of adjusted to where I feel comfortable
with them. I really started hitting the ball well yesterday afternoon with them. And today
I hit the ball pretty well, as well. 

Q. What's your main memory of the Ryder Cup here?

JEFF MAGGERT: We lost. Seriously, that is probably the main memory. I played well here
in the Ryder Cup in '97. This course is really a good course for my game if I'm playing
well. It's very narrow off the tee. It's not a golf course where you need to hit the ball
300 yards on every hole to an advantage. So I was looking forward to coming back here. I
played very well on the Ryder Cup in '97. I wish the whole team would have played a little
bit better, but I was playing well then, and so I have a bit of confidence playing the
course, I think, because of the Ryder Cup.

Q. If you win two of the three World Championships, do you think you ought to be called
world champion?

JEFF MAGGERT: Well, it's obvious the way Tiger Woods has played the last half of the
year, really all year, that he's -- right now he's head and shoulders above a lot of us
out here in the way he's playing. So I wouldn't say that I should be put up there in his
ability right now. Certainly I'd like to be playing a little better, and certainly if I
win here it would be a great end to my season. This is pretty much going to be it for me
until January.

Q. Can we have the details of the round? 

JEFF MAGGERT: Let's see, I birdied the par-5, the first par-5 on the front, No. 4. That
hole was playing downwind today. I hit a driver and 3-wood right on the back edge of the
green, and 2-putted for a birdie. The next hole I made a double bogey, that was one of the
mistakes that I made today. I missed the fairway to the right. Really got kind of a bad
break, had a very poor lie there. And I was not able to advance the ball very far. And I
missed the green on my third shot and I didn't get it up-and-down, made a double bogey
there. Then I birdied the 8th hole. A good shot in there, pretty close to the hole. I
birdied 10. I was in the bunker --

Q. Which club on 8?

JEFF MAGGERT: Pitching wedge, ten feet. Birdied 10. I missed the green about pin-high
in the bunker. And I had a pretty difficult shot to try to get close. It was a pretty good
downslope down to the pin. I just tried to get the ball on the edge of the green and let
it roll down to the hole. It was one of those shots that had pretty good speed on it and
went in. That was a good break there. I made birdie. The very next hole I 3-putted for a
bogey. So again at times I felt like I made some mistakes out there, but I played pretty
well. Then I birdied 17. I couldn't go for the green on 2, so I laid up and hit an L-wedge
in there about five feet and made birdie there.

Q. How long was the bunker shot on 10?

JEFF MAGGERT: 25 feet.

Q. A lot of talk about the 17th now. You obviously played it well. But is it out of the
range of most people to go for it?

JEFF MAGGERT: Today it's downwind. I imagine there will be a lot of guys going for the
green. I drove it in the left bunker, and didn't have an opportunity to go for the green.
If I had been in the fairway I could have gotten it on fairly easily. They changed the
hole since the Ryder Cup in '97. I like the hole better, even better than the way they had
it playing in the Ryder Cup. They used to have a strip of rough that cut across the
fairway that didn't seem to be very fair. If you hit a good drive you wound up right
through the fairway in the rough. The tee is a little longer. They've added a new tee, so
now you can -- you've got to hit a good tee shot, there's a bunker that's about a 250-yard
carry to get it out in the fairway, but today that shouldn't be much of a problem, because
of the wind, straight downwind. No wind it's a pretty difficult driving hole, at least for
me. That's a long carry for me to get it out to the fairway.

Q. Jeff, without wishing to diminish your own game, is there any sense in which players
like you are now hoping that Tiger is going to have an off day?

JEFF MAGGERT: Not really. You never wish any ill luck on your competitors. He's just
playing really solid now. I think he's getting in a real comfort level with himself. He's
been on the Tour for a couple of years now. I'm sure in his mind he's probably struggling
a little bit, inconsistent up-and-down. I'd like to be inconsistent like him. But
certainly the way he's played this year I think he's just getting more comfortable with
his game. He's got a lot of confidence, obviously, with the way he's playing. If there's
any course that we could play right now where I feel like I could play him head-to-head it
would be this course. I feel like the way this course is, it takes the driver out of his
hand most of the time. This course is a position course off the tee. The distance that you
hit your tee shots is very important, as is the direction. But on most of the holes you're
looking to hit the ball 250, 260 yards. Some of the other shorter par-4s, you're lining
up, hitting the ball 220 yards, 230 yards. Other than the par-5s, it certainly takes the
driver out of his hand, takes the length away from him. 

Q. How did you spend the first million dollars?

JEFF MAGGERT: It's still in the bank. I'm sure the government's got a big chunk of it
by now. I said back then that it was a lot of fun to win a million dollars, but at that
time it was -- the money was pretty insignificant. The fact that I'd gone five years on
Tour without winning, just winning the tournament was more important. The money is in good
hands with my banker, and hopefully it will be there when I retire.

Q. Did you treat yourself to something, then?

JEFF MAGGERT: Not really. My fiancee gives me a hard time that I didn't really do much
with that money. She gives me a hard time because I went out and bought a few new shirts
for myself. I did buy a boat this summer, so I guess -- a very small boat. So I guess you
could say that was my gift to myself.

Q. Speed boat?

JEFF MAGGERT: Just a little ski boat, no yachts. I used to ski as a kid quite a bit,
actually. But I haven't been up on the skis this summer.

Q. Is there anything that you would do to the match play, the way the match play event
is played? Do you prefer to see stroke-play qualifying?

JEFF MAGGERT: I think it's fine. You've got 64 players, they all are very capable. I
don't see any sense of having another qualifying to narrow the field down to 16 or 32
players. I think the 64-player match play form at is a pretty classical format. We play at
the U.S. Amateur, all the guys on Tour have probably played that type of tournament. I'm
not sure how the British Amateur is played. I know our U.S. Amateur, they do have a
qualifying, but it's the top 64 players. The only -- it's just a tough tournament. You've
got 64 players that are very equally matched. In our sport everyone likes to see the
top-10 players in the world kind of meet at the end of the tournament. But in that
tournament it's difficult. There's always going to be a lot of upsets, because the players
are very well-matched.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT