U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 1995
Jeff Maggert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 LES UNGER:  Jeff, congratulations on a sub-par round.  Before
we get into some analysis we need you to get into the hole-by-hole.
 We need every hole.

 JEFF MAGGERT:  1st hole was a par.  Driver and 7-iron, 2-putt
about 15 foot.  2nd hole was a 3-wood about 18 feet, 2-putt. 
3rd hole, 3-wood on the front edge of the green, 34, 40 feet,
2-putt.  4th hole, I drove it in the bunker; hit a 9-iron out
18 feet; made the putt for birdie.  5th hole, par 5, drove it
in the fairway made it up with 3-wood, 60 yard; hit a wedge 25
feet, 2-putted.  6th hole, driver.  I think I hit a 3-iron right
in the middle of the green about 18, 20 feet, 2-putted.  7th hole
was par 3.  It was a 7-iron about 20  feet, 2-putt.  8th hole
was a wedge about 15 feet.  Made that for birdie.  9th hole was
7-iron about 15 feet, 2-putted.  10th hole, drove it in the fairway.
 Left the sand wedge just short of the green.  Missed the green
with my chip and chipped on and made about a 3-footer for a bogey.
 11th hole was a 7-iron about 20 feet, 2-putted.  12th hole was
a driver in the fairway. 2-iron just short of the green, chipped
onto about 3 feet and made that for par.  13th hole was a 3-wood
and a 9-iron, 20 feet and 2-putted.  14th hole in the fairway
hit a 7-iron in the right bunker.  Out of the bunker, I was about
6, 7 feet, made that for par.  15th hole, I drove it in the rough
there. Hit a 5-iron just to the left of the green.  Chipped on
about 10 feet.  Missed that for par.  Made bogey.  16th hole drove
well in the fairway.  Hit a 3-iron front bunker.  Hit it from
the bunker to about 18 inches made that for par.  17th hole was
a 4-iron to about 10 feet,  2-putt.  The 18th hole was a driver.
 7-iron about 7 feet, 2-putt.

 LES UNGER:  We were listening in as you were visiting NBC.
 You were surprised that one under was the low score so far. 
Do you feel that there are going to be lower scores as the day
goes on or the reverse?

 JEFF MAGGERT: I think the course is playing the easiest you are
going to see it the four days.  I was a little surprised.  I thought
someone could go out this morning and shoot a 4, 5 under fairly
easy.  You know, but that is a good indication you have how tough
this course is.  The course is -- course is soft, greens are soft.
 Like I say, it is playing as easy as it is going to play.  Most
of the scores are still around par 1, 2 under.  I don't think
anybody is under 2 under right now.  So it will be tough this
week.

 LES UNGER:  Questions.


 Q.   Jeff, on my card here I got 2 birdies and 2 bogeys. 
Would you just tell us --

 JEFF MAGGERT:  Three birdies and two bogeys. I birdied the 4th
hole and the 8th hole and the 16th hole.  Par 5. 

 Q.   Do you have to deal with more jitters here at the Open
as compared to some of the other tournaments?

 JEFF MAGGERT:  Any major, you know, there is a lot more nerves.
 This is my fourth U.S. Open or fifth U.S. Open.

 LES UNGER:  Fifth.

 JEFF MAGGERT:  Starting to lose track which is, I guess, a good
sign.  You know, it is always a little bit more nervy in the Majors,
you know, everybody wants to win the Majors and you know, I think
it is a good kind of pressure; makes you focus on your game more
and you know, that is why on Sunday you usually see the best players
in the world on top.

 Q.   I think everybody is probably a little surprised that
1 under leading right now because there has been so much talk
obviously with all the rain and how soft it is going to be.  What
is it out on the course -- what condition do you think that there
is that is preventing the scores from being lower?

 JEFF MAGGERT:  There is a little bit of wind.  It is really not
that difficult.  I think the speed of the greens is what is probably
keeping the scores right around par.  The greens are soft, but
the speed is still fairly quick, and you know, if you are  not
just on the right angle putting for birdie, it is very difficult
to make putts.  You know, the course is playing a little bit longer
than what you'd normally see when the course is dry, so you are
hitting a little bit longer irons on some of the par fours.  I
think those two things are probably keeping the scores around
par, and the other thing it is just a difficult course.  If this
is the easiest it is, then you know, people are going to shoot
1 or 2 under, that is just a good sign that the course is good
and tough and fair.  I think when this course gets firm and fast;
it is going to play very difficult as the week goes on.  I think
it is going to get more and more difficult.

 Q.   How is the wind different today as far as direction compared
to practice rounds?

 JEFF MAGGERT:  Wind direction today was very similar.  Almost
the same direction.  I think today it might have been a little
bit more out of the east -- I mean out of the west.  Practice
rounds it seemed to be more out of the north.  Today maybe it
was more out of the northwest if my direction is right.

 LES UNGER:  The ocean is east.

 JEFF MAGGERT:  I think it was kind of a northwest wind today.
 Which makes the long par fours  play even longer.  I think that
is one of the reasons maybe the scores are a little higher.  You
got the second hole is playing into the wind.  The third hole
-- the second hole is par 3, it plays into the wind I had to hit
a 3-wood there this morning.  Next hole is a par 4, I had to hit
a 3-wood to the green there.  11th hole plays a little bit into
the wind.  It was 2-iron.  Mostly of the difficult par fours are
playing into the wind right now.

 LES UNGER:  Good luck.  Thanks.


  End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT