U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 17, 1994
Jeff Maggert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LES UNGER: Two subjects which are going to come up, might as
well address them right off the bat. The comparison of the course
after the rain and basic play.

JEFF MAGGERT: Pace of play is still too slow.

LES UNGER: Any idea how fast you were going.

JEFF MAGGERT: I have no idea. I am sure it was close to five hours.

LES UNGER: 1:18.

JEFF MAGGERT: Yeah, it was four hours 45 minutes. You know, that
-- I come to expect it in the U.S. Open for slow play. I am not
a big fan of slow pay. Nobody is, but the conditions of the course
make it very difficult for the speed of the play to move around
quickly, doesn't really affect me. The course was definitely playing
a little bit easier this morning. I didn't really know how much
rain the course got last night. I know we got a little bit at
the hotel. But the greens were definitely a little bit softer
this morning and I am not surprised that some guys got out some
good scores this morning.

Q. After what happened at The Masters this year, did you find
yourself putting pressure on yourself coming in here or did you
try to put that back behind you and look at this as just the next
major?

JEFF MAGGERT: I have definitely put The Masters behind me. The
Masters were a disappointing week for me. I was playing very well
going into The Masters and struggled all week there. Just trying
to approach this week a little bit different. Probably not playing
as well as I was going into The Masters, so just try to focus
a little more on shot making and paying attention to what I am
doing on the greens. I am still not striking the ball as well
as I'd like to, but it seems like most of the time I am missing
the fairways, I have been able to save some pars. So I need to
play a little bit better, I think, to get myself a chance to win
the tournament.

Q. Just talk about your year; is this the best one so far and
how consistent have you been?

JEFF MAGGERT: I played a pretty solid year so far. A lot of top
10 finishes. Had a chance to win a couple of tournaments. I think
what has been hurting me the most this year is kind of a slow
start on Thursday and Friday. Played some golf on the weekends
and last couple of weeks. I have been trying to concentrate on
getting off to some better starts on Thursday and Friday and giving
myself a chance to win the golf tournaments on Saturday and Sunday.
I think that has been the only blemish on my year so far. Played
really well. Had some good tournaments and hopefully I can continue
to do so.

Q. Jeff, do you have any indication at all of why you start
slowly; do you feel that coming on?

JEFF MAGGERT: I don't know if it is maybe trying a little bit
too hard and I think that is usually my biggest setback is trying
to play, well, too badly usually works in a negative way against
myself. So I just try to relax a little bit this week and concentrate
on the ball, striking and hit the ball in the fairway and get
careful on the greens. And I think I am doing that pretty well.


Q. Jeff, you said that conditions of the course lends to slow
play. What are you talking about, specifically?

JEFF MAGGERT: Well, everything, tee to green, once you get on
the greens, you know, if you miss the fairway it is difficult
to get the ball on the greens, so you are usually chipping out.
That is slowing the play up a bit. When you get on the greens,
guys were taking a lot more time reading the greens, you know,
checking out all the breaks. A lot of guys are 3-putting; just
tends to slow everything down. People are taking a little bit
more time.

LES UNGER: Jeff, good round. Thank you, see you again.

JEFF MAGGERT: Thank you.

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT