JOHNNIE WALKER WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
December 17, 1993
Jeff Maggert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.   Talk about yesterday the one hole that cost you.

JEFF MAGGERT:  Yeah, I tell you, yesterday and today it has been kind of an up and down road out there.  Today, you know, I got a few better breaks today.  Yesterday on the 11th hole, I tried to be a little aggressive; hit a driver off the tee and hit a couple of balls out of bounds.  I hadn't played a tournament in four and a half weeks, so I am a little rusty and, you know, the driver is a little inconsistent.  But today, it started coming around a little bit, and the putter felt a little better and played a little better today.


Q.   What did you hit with on the 11th today?

JEFF MAGGERT:  I hit 2-iron today.  I was 3-under at that time and, you know, just wanted to hit a good shot on the fairway there, and forget about yesterday, and hit a good wedge in there; had a chance to make birdie, but I was happy with 4 today.


Q.   What was your score on the hole yesterday; what did you make on 11 yesterday?

JEFF MAGGERT:  I made an 8.  Two balls out of bounds.  One right, one left.  Third one was split the difference; turned out pretty good.


Q.   6 shots in 5 holes --

JEFF MAGGERT:  That was kind of a rough stretch yesterday. I struggled pretty bad with the driver; did a lot of hooks and stand up there on 11 and trying to protect against the hook and kind of blocked one out to the right out of bounds and the next one was a hook again to the other side and finally the third one was in the fairway, but you know, it was, you know, pretty tough to get ready to play this week.  I had kind of scheduled eight weeks off for the off-season and I got kind of a late call to come here and play; found out on Wednesday last week that I would be playing, so I hadn't played in about four weeks, only played one day before I came down here, so the game is a little bit rusty and you know, I feel like I learned some things today.  Hopefully I can shoot some good scores Saturday and Sunday.


Q.   Was there any hesitation about coming or was it as soon as you got the call --

JEFF MAGGERT:  No hesitation at all.  I was told you know, there would be an outside chance that I would get in and I wasn't really anticipating it.  I didn't feel like that there would be as many withdrawals as there was.  I was just kind of relaxing at home enjoying the holidays; getting ready for Christmas and got the call so I got an early Christmas present, I guess. Hopefully I can make the most of it tomorrow and Sunday.


Q.   What would you have been doing instead if you had been at home?

JEFF MAGGERT:  Just laying around the house, probably; playing with the kids; doing a little Christmas shopping; maybe playing a little bit of golf, it starts pretty early in the States.  We start the first weekend in January.  Probably when I get home I will probably get pretty serious again getting ready for the first of the year.


Q.   Thank you.       


End of FastScripts....


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT