NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: FLAMES v LIGHTNING
May 27, 2004
Dan Boyle
Vincent Lecavalier
Brad Richards
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  You said you would be playing with a lot more of a physical style these last two games.  Is that a conscious decision you made and how do you feel about your game?   
 VINCENT LECAVALIER:  Yeah, I tried definitely last, I would say, last four, five games.  I started with Philly, especially in the first period really, you know, trying to hit their D and play behind their D so, you know, it's been working and I am going to keep working at it.   
  Q.  Vinny, talk about the first goal, the play behind the net and then keeping at it when they knocked the puck away from you?   
 VINCENT LECAVALIER:  It was a great play by Marty and Feds (Fedotenko).  We just kept it in their zone for a little bit.  I just want to get a shot on net after I got away from the defender, from the defenseman.  I lost the puck, passed it to Culli, who made a great shot on net.  Then Feds has been playing well in the series and he just tapped it in.  It was a good way to start the game.   
  Q.  They say you do it in practice all the time.  Have you done that a lot in games?   
 VINCENT LECAVALIER:  I try it sometimes.  It's nothing  -- I don't know.  I just  -- I guess sometimes.   
  Q.  Dan, obviously you had a really tough day.  Getting the goal tonight, do you feel like a little bit of poetic justice?   
 DAN BOYLE:  That was awesome.  Not just the goalie wanted to have a strong game, obviously it's been a rough couple of days; sleeping hasn't been very good.  But anyways I knew the team and myself had to come up with a big game.  I am just glad I could help out tonight.   
  Q.  Vinny, let's go back to that pass to yourself off the back of the net.  That's kind of Gretzky-like; he's sitting there in the stands watching you and he didn't pick you for the team, was tonight kind of special in any kind of way with those things in mind?   
 VINCENT LECAVALIER:  Who do you mean?   
  Q.  Gretzky was in the building watching you tonight.  Of course, not picking you to Team Canada for all that stuff.   
 VINCENT LECAVALIER:  Well, I just do my best.  I try my best.  (Laughs).  It's a tough question to answer.  But, no, I just try my best tonight and it worked out.   
  Q.  Vinny, there's been so much focus and attention leading into the series on Jarome Iginla.  Do you feel a little bit overlooked and have something to prove here?   
 VINCENT LECAVALIER:  No.  I mean, doesn't matter who people talk about.  Jarome is a great player and he's proven himself in the league and in the playoffs.  He has been phenomenal for Calgary.  He plays hard every single night.  I just play my game and it doesn't really matter what people say or whatever.  I just try to help my team as much as I can.   
  Q.  Following up, not to prove anything to Jarome, but he's considered the face of that franchise.  There's been a lot of talk about how that player carries his team on his back when he's needed the most.  Is it important for you because you are still the face of this franchise to be able to do that yourself?   
 VINCENT LECAVALIER:  I think when you go so far in the payoffs, it's a team effort and personally I try to be ready every single night, you know.  We've got much talent and so much determination in our club that I try to lead as much as I can.  Boyle tries to lead as much as he can.  That's why you know, we're there right now.   
  Q.  How much did Vinny's physical play right off the start set the tone for this night?   
 BRAD RICHARDS:  Yeah, all throughout the game he was physical.  It's good to see top guys are physical.  It kind of brings everybody on the same page.  Seen it happen last series with Primeau and, you know, just kind of makes everybody believe they can do it.   
  Q.  Coach Tortorella was pretty strong yesterday saying you didn't give Calgary enough respect in Game 1.  Did those comments get to you?   
 DAN BOYLE:  We knew.  I mean, the second we stepped off the ice after last game, we knew we hadn't done enough.  We did watch tape, but even that, I mean, we just knew.  I mean, and tonight I thought we came out a lot harder and with a lot more desperation and we showed  -- we killed off some penalties that were huge in the first.  Other than the time they were on the power play, I think we took over.   
  Q.  Brad, that's your 6th winning goal in the playoffs this year.  You tie a record.  Any thoughts about that?   
 BRAD RICHARDS:  No, I guess only thought it's good, I don't know.  You score goals throughout the game you hope are big goals, and it's more.  I think the goal tonight was good just to get that two-goal cushion.  Ends up they score and I got a game-winner.  That's not what you are thinking of.  You want to get the shot out.  It just happens that way, sometimes it's hard to explain, but  --   
  Q.  With Wayne Gretzky in the stands tonight, did it mean anything for you to play as well as you did, considering he picked you to Team Canada?   
 BRAD RICHARDS:  I don't think whether he picks you or not, when Wayne Gretzky is in the stands, it's fun to play in front of him.  I didn't really notice until he was up on the big screen.  I think in this stage, you have got to realize he's probably watching no matter what.  To see him there was pretty neat and, you know, at this stage, no offense to him, I don't think you need him just to motivate yourself.  We're in the Stanley Cup Finals, but it is special when he's here.   
  Q.  The play behind the net by Vinny, does he do it in practice?  Ever done it to you and what is your general impression of it?   
 DAN BOYLE:  (Laughs).  Well, Vinny is a special player obviously, tries a lot of things most players don't.  He gets away with it.  So it was nothing new for us to see that in the game and we like to see that as long  -- as long as it ends up in their net at the end.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT