SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 6, 2009
Sharon Fanning-Otis
Robin Porter
Alexis Rack
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 THE MODERATOR: Now joined by Mississippi State, Coach Fanning, Alexis Rack, who had 14 points tonight and then Robin Porter who had 10 points, Coach? 
 COACH FANNING: I was pleased with our intensity, we sort of got in a hole. I feel like our intensity and our focus early on wasn't where it needed to be. But I was proud of the way we competed. 
 I don't know that we could hold that for a 40-minute period, but we were trying to make things happen. When you see another team -- I've said this all year long, if you see another team shooting layups, getting offensive boards or just good looks that are uncontested shots, which we saw -- and I don't think our individual team defense is what it needs to be.
 In the second half they shoot -- which I just really saw 61%, they shoot 51% from the field, that's something we have taken a great deal of pride in the majority of this season, trying to keep people under 40%. 
 I don't feel like we're executing the way we have to execute in a half-court game. LSU is an improved basketball team. They had some young kids, and initially they took some hits, but they've played well lately and they played with a lot of energy today, so I think you have to give credit to their team relative to coming out, ready to be. 
 Hopefully we learn from each and every game we've played this season. And, you know, we were fortunate enough to have beaten them two times during the regular season, and of course one was a tough loss at their place for them in terms of a last-second shot. And I felt like some of our best basketball was played when we played at our place. 
 We have to understand as a team -- as a team we need maturity and focus, regardless of what time you go to bed, regardless of the scenario, you come ready to go.
 And hopefully we learned from this and hopefully we have another opportunity in the NCAA tournament to reach our potential because we have new players going through some things for the first time, and I know that every game is a learning situation for us, so hopefully we will have that opportunity. 

 Q. Can you talk about Allison Hightower and how difficult she was to guard tonight? 
 COACH FANNING: Hightower can go. I don't think I've seen in the women's game, I haven't seen a prettier shot. They just float in, float in and go left. I think she has tried to take a younger team that they have and really carry them. 
 There has been a lot of learning that's taken place, and that's taken patience and determination on her part and she is an excellent leader for them. She wants the ball to take it down the floor and in the half-court game to be able to find the shot. She has helped them in many ways. 
 You know when you finish with 23 points and you have a positive assist turnover, offensive rebounds, you have played the amount of time she has, I think that speaks highly for her endurance, for her focus, for her toughness. 
 And it's definitely made a difference in their basketball team, they are leadership. And, of course, her abilities. 

 Q. Can you guys talk about the start that you guys had tonight in terms of the past three or four games, the first half hasn't been that strong as the second half. Has there been a constant in the last three or four games that has been a cause for the slow starts? 
 ALEXIS RACK: We -- I feel that we came up short. Guess we just -- we just didn't find a way to get out of the hole. 
 ROBIN PORTER: We weren't focused. We need to focus and have intensity, and our focus is just not there in the first half, we have to find it. 

 Q. (Away from mic.)
 COACH FANNING: I felt like last night when we started the game, from a focus standpoint, we had the right energy. And as you look at how the team was practicing, I've said this all year long, we have some depth to this team and we have experience with this team. 
 But some of the experience that we talked about in the beginning of the year has been in and out due to injuries, or else not here at all because of injuries. Some of the key players -- so, therefore, even with that, the depth is a key to it. 
 There are several new players that are doing a lot of things for the first time. At least one, and I would say there is more, that didn't know there would be four games this week until they were told, that's just a learning process. 
 So when the lights go on in a different way, there is a learning curve there. We talked at the beginning of the season about toughness and focus and talked about playing together, and the little things, communication that needs to take place out there. 
 The thing that I do believe is that our team is getting better. I think other teams get better as well and this team is competitive -- this league is as competitive as it's ever been, top to bottom. 
 So hopefully the lessons that are learned, we'll continue to improve as well and get this next opportunity and then we'll have that focus and better performance. We have a week now to get ready to continue to get better as a basketball team. And I'm really asking these returning players, two of these young ladies sitting right here, that we want to step up. 
 I think Robin played better today. She has not been playing as well, and I don't know if that's been being tighter or whatever, but I think she -- I had complimented her this last week relative to the warrior that she has been, and what she has given and either she's got to relax to do it or I'm going to take her out of the starting lineup. She stepped up, was confident, looking for shots and making some things happen. 
 Alexis last night, I thought she was a real key, being tough and not hitting the points early, but in the second half the ability to defend as she did and make things happen and show focus, and that's a sign of maturity and that's what this team needs.
 They need the leadership out there to be able to make decisions quick and read and react together. And hopefully we learn from this and we have a week to improve next week and you'll see us in postseason play a better basketball team. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Coach, ladies. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT