PLAYSTATION FIESTA BOWL: PENN STATE VS WASHINGTON
December 26, 2017
Coleman Shelton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  The weather is a little nicer here for you guys.  
COLEMAN SHELTON: Yeah, it is.   
 Q.  It's a nice change of pace from the blizzard or cold weather that's up there?  
COLEMAN SHELTON: It randomly snowed up in Seattle instead of the rain.  I guess got a little too cold for that.  But perfect down here.  So no complaints out of us, definitely.   
 Q.  What's the reaction to being in the Fiesta Bowl?  
COLEMAN SHELTON: Ecstatic, excited to go out and show what we can do.   
 Q.  Is there a level you guys want to prove something, since you weren't included in the top four teams?  Is there anything that you all need to prove?  
COLEMAN SHELTON: I feel like there always is.  Always want to go out and show that your season wasn't a fake season or anything like that.  You want to go out and play a good game and just kind of prove what you've done through the season.   
 Q.  How much has the locker room changed since you've been in Washington?  And now you guys are talking about being in the top four every year now.  Hasn't always been the case up there, right?  
COLEMAN SHELTON: It was always the goal.  The culture of the locker room has changed a bit and it's just kind of growing each year, and the more experience that this team has, together with the coaching staff and the players, it's something we do expect to be up there.  But being in a New Year's Six bowl is fantastic.   
 Q.  What's your quarterback like?  We were talking to him earlier, seems even-keeled.  Does he show emotion?  
COLEMAN SHELTON: Shows a little fire around the offensive line.  He likes the big guys, which we respect.  And we want to protect the guy and he's our quarterback.  So it's fun to play with him, definitely.   
 Q.  What type of challenge does Penn State present?  
COLEMAN SHELTON: Just very solid defense.  They're coached well.  They're not going to be misaligned or anything like that.  They're going to hit their gaps and know what they're doing.  So we've got to be on top of our game, too, and go out there and make some plays.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) I've not seen this team play.  Or what type of game should they expect?  
COLEMAN SHELTON: Physical game.  It's Big Ten defense versus our rushing attack.  So definitely a game that's going to be physical and fun to play as a player and fun to watch as a fan.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT