MLB WORLD SERIES: INDIANS v MARLINS
October 21, 1997
Gary Sheffield
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Gary, do you think this was your most clutch game in the bat?

GARY SHEFFIELD:  I think so.  I've been waiting 9 years for this, and it finally happened and I was able to come through for my teammates.  Under the circumstances we were in tonight we was playing a tough team and we pulled out.


Q.  Gary, do you think you've showed the national audience tonight that not only are you a fine hitter but also a good defensive player who can complete the play?

GARY SHEFFIELD:  I get a lot of bad publicity as far as my defense, but I think I'm a good outfielder and I make the plays that I can get to.  I give my coaches a lot of credit for putting me in the right position.  I just want to show up in both ends of the field in this series.


Q.  Gary, after the season you've had, how satisfying is a night like this?

GARY SHEFFIELD:  Well, I'm just thrilled to  death that I'm here, just to be in the World Series and perform for the Florida Marlins.  I'm from Florida and to be able to do it at home, and bring the World Championship here, is more gratifying than anything.


Q.  A lot of people, Gary, talked about the weather tonight, how cold it is.  It's going to be colder tomorrow, and probably colder for Game 5, but you seemed to have adjusted pretty good tonight, any kind of effect you noticed on you or your teammates with the weather?

GARY SHEFFIELD:  Not at all.  We were in Chicago when it was real cold and we were motivated to keep that blocked out of your mind and do the job.  Jim Leyland is a great motivator and manager, he has a lot to do it.  We don't think about the cold, because both teams are out there playing.


Q.  Did you finally see some good pitches to hit tonight?

GARY SHEFFIELD:  Yeah, I went up there thinking they were going to pitch to me today, and try to surprise me, because a lot of things have been going on.  I just came in ready today and tried to capitalize on them when they came in.


Q.  Gary, Jimmy said before the game that he didn't want you expanding your strike zone, even though  he knows it's frustrating being pitched around, even after being pitched around all season.  How much of an effort is it for you not to get to the point where you're chasing pitches, just to try to make something happen at the plate?

GARY SHEFFIELD:  It takes a lot of discipline.  I've had help with being patient, when they come in the strike zone capitalizing on them when they do.  When you get the opportunity to hit you've got to hit.


Q.  Gary, what's going through this team's mind when it falls down 7-3?

GARY SHEFFIELD:  We gave away our bats. That's something Jim Leyland kept stressing, don't give away the bats.  I think Eisenreich's homerun was the biggest hit of the night.  In the American League you've got nine guys hitting, as far as the regular line-up, and we felt we had a chance, when the guys down the order produce.


Q.  Just expounding on what you said before, starting the season, signing the big contract, getting in a slump and not really having a great regular season, is it all vindicated for the playoffs, especially after tonight?

GARY SHEFFIELD:  I think so.  I know what  kind of player I am.  I think I look too far ahead to get to this point.  During the season I wasn't as focused as I usually am.  I'm used to carrying a team, and I've been carrying the Marlins 4 or 5 years.  Now we have players on the team capable of doing things I'm capable of doing.  I think I look too far ahead at a time.


Q.  Could you speak a little about when you picked up the ball.

GARY SHEFFIELD:  I looked in the dugout and they were telling me to move back, they told me to move in the gap a little bit.  I know he's a pull hitter, he moved me over a little bit, and I was able to get back to the wall and make the catch.  When I looked back I found the wall, and it stayed in my glove.


Q.  Gary, how big a win is this emotionally for the Marlins?

GARY SHEFFIELD:  Well, I think this was the biggest game of the Series.  It was a tie series, whoever loses this game is going to be down one.  I think it was bigger for us to win because this is the loudest crowd I've ever played in front of.  I couldn't even hear myself think.  To pull out the first victory here is a big win.


Q.  Gary, it's always been said that teams that  come into Jacobs Field could be intimidating for opposing teams because they're sold out, 45,000 screaming fans.  Even though when you were down 7-3, it didn't seem like the crowd intimidated anybody?

GARY SHEFFIELD:  I don't know how to explain it.  When we got within two we felt we had hope again. In the World Series you don't feel about things like that, you just think about winning the ballgame.


Q.  Gary, have you ever been a part of such a strange game and can you talk about some of the oddities of tonight?

GARY SHEFFIELD:  I've never been involved in a game like this.  I've never been in a 14-11 game. Just to do it in the World Series, you never think you're going to score that many runs in the World Series.  I can't explain it.  The first game he pitched well, but things happen and hopefully we can go forward from here.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT