MLB WORLD SERIES: INDIANS v MARLINS
October 17, 1997
Gary Sheffield
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Gary, I wonder if you remember back to last winter, if you remember where you were
and what you were doing and what you started thinking when you started hearing about all
these new guys, free agents who were signing?

GARY SHEFFIELD: Well, actually I was working out in Atlanta, working out for the
season. And my first thinking was how excited I was, especially when they signed Alex
Fernandez. I knew what it meant to not have fans to come out to the stadium, and when Alex
signed the first thing was that we were going to have a packed house. And I'll get an
opportunity to play in front of a full house every night.

Q. Where did you watch the 1986 World Series?

GARY SHEFFIELD: I was at the game. I had it in my contract with Milwaukie Brewers to
attend the '86 World Series and it just so happened --

Q. Gary, who do you think has the quickest bat in baseball?

GARY SHEFFIELD: There's a lot of guys that are quick bats. But are you talking about
nowadays?

Q. Yes, you can say yourself if you think that. 

GARY SHEFFIELD: I really don't consider myself as having the quickest bat in baseball.
I see a lot of guys with a lot of bat speeds. The first guy that comes to mind is Barry
Bonds.

Q. Gary, you've talked always about wanting to win, has it sunk in that you are
actually playing in the World Series?

GARY SHEFFIELD: Now it has. A lot of times you don't get a chance to reflect on what's
going on until it's over, and lucky enough I have postseason experience playing against
the Giants and Braves, and to actually be in the World Series you have a better
understanding of what's going on, and probably a little bit of floating is going away now.
I'm just in awe that I'm here. And I'm so excited.

Q. What are your thoughts about the possible sale of the club and what do you expect
would be the result of that?

GARY SHEFFIELD: Well, my thoughts was at first I was sad because I like Huizenga as the
owner. If we go out and win the World Series he might change his mind. That's been the
attitude of the whole team. If we can do something to make him feel special around here at
the might reconsider.

Q. Talk about facing Orel Hershiser? 

GARY SHEFFIELD: Just being in the World Series and going against the American League
team, it always helped facing a National League pitcher. I know what he's tried to do to
hitters, and I think being able to face him a couple of times kind of takes the edge away.
Just going out there now I know what I've got to expect from him.

Q. Can you talk about how you've done against Orel?

GARY SHEFFIELD: At times when I first faced him he got me out a couple of times, when I
figured out his patterns I had successes off him. I hit a couple of homeruns off him. And
hopefully that can remain.

Q. You didn't hit that many in homeruns -- does this team need more base hits in the
World Series?

GARY SHEFFIELD: We showed we can win without it. You have to give the Braves credit.
They didn't come in the zone a lot of times, they didn't give you the opportunity to hit
homeruns, they stayed away from the guys. This is a different pitching staff. Nobody is
better than the Braves pitching staff. And I think that's going to show up in this series.

Q. You didn't have as good a regular season this year as last year, can you give us an
idea why that is, and getting this far postseason, does that help make up for that?

GARY SHEFFIELD: Yes, that's what it's all about. Like I said in Spring Training it's
not about numbers with me anymore. I have a contract and stats in my career. What's
important is getting the ring. And I think I thought too far ahead about getting here, and
I didn't focus on what -- the little things I had to do to be successful during the
season. You have to understand when you're getting a lot of walks every day and you want
to participate and everybody is having fun and swinging the bat and you don't get a chance
to swing the bat it makes a difference, and I think I forgot about the little things.

Q. Your manager said he had 8 beds brought to his house for friends and family. I
suppose you might know a few staying over?

GARY SHEFFIELD: My place is not that big, but the hotel bill is going to be pretty
healthy for him.

Q. Can you talk a little bit about what concerns you about the Cleveland Indians?

GARY SHEFFIELD: The main thing that comes to mind is Jim told me -- I know what kind of
player he is, and that's the one guy that's been on my mind, he hasn't had a great series,
and he's coming in here he's going to be a little hungry, because the guys had to help get
him here. He did it during the season and during the American League playoffs those guys
picked him up. And I'm sure that he's going to be trying to pick them up in the World
Series.

Q. Have you spoken to Dwight about playing in the World Series and what to lookout for?

GARY SHEFFIELD: Well, just being around him in the World Series, in '86, I was able to
see the things he had to go through and what it took to win. And we talked a little about
it last year, they played in Atlanta. I happened to be in Atlanta working out. Hi told you
to relax and have fun with it, because you never know when you're going to come back.

Q. Gary, you've been here almost from day one. Can you talk about the development of
the Marlins as an organization and how quickly you were able to get to the World Series?

GARY SHEFFIELD: Well, when you look at the Colorado team, they've got a lot of veteran
guys, and they're an expansion team. When I came over here it was to rebuild the team. And
I just looked at it as a situation where they weren't moving fast enough at the time I
thought. But they pulled me to the side and told me to be patient, things were going to
work out and they showed me the way it was going to work. They went out and got Bobby and
Alou and Fernandez.

Q. In the American League Championship Series that Davey Johnson accused Orel Hershiser
of loading the ball up, can that work to the pitchers' advantage?

GARY SHEFFIELD: As I recall I think we beat Maddox twice, and I think he's the best
pitcher in the game. We have to look at it as that, we beat the best pitcher in the world
and we can't look at him any different.

Q. Gary, prior to this year obviously the club never had this kind of success. Is there
a point where you ever thought for sure you were going to be leaving, and if was there
ever a low point for you here?

GARY SHEFFIELD: When I first got here, I came over, I was hurting, I hurt my arm. And
they were talking about signing me long-term and I had doubts, should I sign long-term.
And my family had a lot to do with it, being close to home. And I think just being injured
the whole year and not being able to do the things I was capable of doing, that was my low
point.

Q. Do you think you've grown more as a player, or as a person since you broke into the
big leagues?

GARY SHEFFIELD: I think both. I think I worked real hard off season to get prepared to
play this game. I appreciate the game a lot more than I did in the past. I used to do
things just to get by, and I think now I owe a lot of responsibility as a person to the
young players to show them the right way.

Q. Gary, you've talked so glowingly about the Atlanta pitching staff, have you already
beaten the best, is it a feeling that to be the best, you have to beat the best?

GARY SHEFFIELD: I feel that the best is here, the best of teams is here. The pitching
staff, they are the best pitching staff. But as far as teams, the best teams are here.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT