WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 6, 2021
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, I played nicely, played solid.  Yeah, just seem to, when I drive it well around this golf course I feel like I can shoot a good number.
Q. Are you confident about tomorrow, a chance to win again on the PGA TOUR, because you put yourself in position?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, I'm probably going to be three, four back, I would think.  But, yeah, it's a good spot around this golf course.  You've seen it today, you can easily shoot loads under.
But I think there will be a lot of people tomorrow that will fire quite a bit.
Q. You played once before and I think you finished third.  Obviously you like this golf course.  How come you don't play more often?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I don't know.  Looks like I need to come back every four years.  No, I don't know.  It's always like a little awkward for my schedule, but this year was a little different and I decided to come play.
Q. It's always about putting with you guys if you're hot for a certain week, and obviously the putter is really clicking this week.  Have you done anything different?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   No.  You know, I want to say before U.S. Open last year I put a little bit more loft on my putter just to get a bit of roll on it, and it seemed to help quite a bit strike-wise and rolling the ball.
And this is the second week I've tried a different stability shaft in the putter and the speed has been really good.  You know, when your speed is good you can read the greens a little better.  I felt really good on the greens.
Q. Louis, finished with a bogey-free 8-under.  Just thoughts on the round today.
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, good, solid round.  Drove it well, hit good greens, and whenever I had a good opportunity for a birdie I made the putt.  Just a good, solid round.
Q. Talk about your experience here.  You played once.  Just how different it is to play with tons of fans and now just being back here without?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, it's strange.  16 is almost (indiscernible) a different feel to the golf course.  And then you go to 17 and (indiscernible).
So this week is a lot different, but it's just great to see fans back.  It's great to just play in front of people again.
Q. What's your mindset going into tomorrow?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Oh, pretty similar to today.  Just fire and try and make good tee shots and put myself in position off the tee.  I think that's crucial around this track.
You know, attack mode.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT