THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 21, 2020
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Nice 36 holes, bogey-free.  Got to feel good about the start to your Playoffs?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, I said yesterday, it took me awhile to sort out driver problems I had and I went back to an old series driver and made it different, comfortable around the tee, and around here that's important, especially the way the golf course is playing, a lot of birdie opportunities.  I think we all are watching the leaderboard today.  Wanted to see if there could be two 59s out there but there was some unreal playing by the boys.
Q. Old driver, was it just comfort or technically different?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   It's a little different head, so I like to see my driver go a little bit left-to-right, and I was struggling to find one that I could do it.  You know, always go back to the ones you know that works, and you know, it's working good.
Q. 12-under par, right there, great chance to win this championship.  What needs to get a little better if you're going to hold a trophy Sunday night?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   There was a few holes today where I had wedges in my hand.  I just didn't hit it close enough.  I'm getting myself in 20-feet range a little bit more even and with wedges in your hand, you have to get right in there.  I'm rolling the ball nicely and I'm hitting everything decent.  I just need to take advantage where I have those holes where it should be a birdied.
Q. A pair of 65s, no bogeys so far this week.  What is going on with your game?  Are you liking this place?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, I don't know where the bogeys are.  Whenever you have two rounds with no bogeys, striking it well off the tee.  A few times I was in trouble with a few unlucky breaks and then just not getting it right to the green.  I really made some good up-and-downs, as well, and rolling it nicely.
I just need to whenever I have that wedge in my hand, I have to get a little bit closer and give myself a few more opportunities, if you look at what the boys are shooting around this golf course.  I do see the golf course getting a little bit firmer.  The fairways are definitely firmer and the greens are getting firmer.  The weekend should play a little tougher.
Q. You've only played 11 times this year, obviously, due to COVID, but you've played okay since coming back.  Do you feel like maybe you're hitting your stride just a little bit more?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I normally start around, when I come back from South Africa and play Europe, I think México would be my third event, fourth event, and this year I've done two of them, the COVID happened.  And so a lot of events in the beginning, I didn't play.  Came back to Colonial and immediately was under a lot of pressure to play well and perform, and just wasn't really playing that good.
But yeah, I found I driver, I went back to an old driver that I really like, and I'm hitting the ball nicely off the tee and putting myself in position.  You know, working on short game to improve.
Q. Is the mind-set to go out there and just keep making birdies early and often, knowing you can't afford to finish outside the top 5 or six?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   It is a course I feel comfortable around.  So I just need to keep doing what I'm doing.  Give myself at many birdie putts as I can.  I always try and see how many greens I can hit.  Try and hit as many greens, if I have a little bit longer putt.  But like I say, I think I'm playing good enough to not really be thinking about where I have to finish, but rather be thinking of winning the tournament.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT