TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 24, 2015
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Wondering, did you have your wrist drained today too?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I had this done yesterday but the wrist was fine.  The wrist didn't give me any problems.
Last Sunday, I started having troubles with the hamstring, right hamstring, behind the knee, and it affected my walking.
Monday, I struggled to walk around the house.  I saw physio down there and got a treatment for about an hour.
Tuesday, I didn't play any round or didn't walk the golf course, just because of the leg.
Then Wednesday, yesterday, obviously struggling with this I went to the hand surgeon and they shared a drain, so a ganglion cyst in the wrist, which was fine.
So, then I walked the golf course again and the leg was never really a problem.  Starting the round I didn't even feel it, I didn't even know about it.  But after five or six holes, I felt, started feeling it immediately and started walking slower and just every hole it got worse and worse and worse.
Up and through the 14th hole, we, I started swinging -- or 13th hole, where I started swinging it different because I felt I struggled to go through on the leg and that's when I decided to withdraw.
Q. Are you wanting to protect it because of the Presidents Cup?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, well, it was getting worse and once it gets to a point where you don't swing it proper, it's no point in playing.  That's when you start losing confidence and you start hurting other things.  So then it's, to me, if I don't feel it swinging, it's fine, I can try and fight it, but other than that, I don't.
So, yeah, I still would love to play next week, Dunhill Links, that's a big concern now, because that's also a tough walk, those three golf courses.  So it might need to be a hot call not playing Dunhill Links, so that I can have a proper preparation before Presidents Cup.
Q. So do you go home now?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I'll go home.  My physio is actually going with me down to Palm Beach and we'll do some work on it.  Probably can't do much at the moment, it's quite tender, but I think that the next couple of days, the weekend we'll do some proper work.
It's not just the individual thing, the Presidents Cup, it's a team thing, so I need to make a call on next Wednesday or Thursday and tell Nick Price if I'll be a hundred percent or not.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT