BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 20, 2015
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. After six holes today your back was very much against the wall.  How did you manage to make all those birdies?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I just -- I know I hit the ball well this whole week to be able to give myself birdie chances.  I just struggled all week on the greens.  But then I hit a really few good shots, made a lot of good shots to the green and then made birdies.  Disappointing about the three-putt on 17 I had, and then obviously 18 I wanted to hit it a little closer.
Q. You're currently inside the top 30 projected, but you're aware there's a handful of players out there that could affect the outcome.  I'm not saying this to put the blame on the Springboks, but how much did the disappointment of what happened to your nation in rugby yesterday against Japan impact your attitude coming into today?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I think the whole country was a bit bruised today, I mean yesterday.  I mean, it's something we didn't expect at all, but I'm sure the boys will pick themselves up for the next match.
Q. You said earlier in the week that you wouldn't think about the top 30 until Sunday, so at what point today did you start keeping an eye on the leaderboards?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Well, I think only the last four or five holes, really.  I was out of it completely after six holes, and fought back nicely to have a chance.  I thought that three-putt on 17 would definitely put me out of the top 30, and I needed to make birdie on the last.  It looks like I still have a chance, so I just have to wait and see.
Q. What kind of turned around your game after six holes?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I just went a little bit more aggressive.  I drove it pretty close on 7, chipped and putt for birdie, and then the same on 8.  I tried to attack with my second, tried to have a good.  Yeah, I felt like the game was there to get it close enough, I just struggled on the greens all week, misreads and not good putts, so it was a bit up and down for me the whole week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT