THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2015
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. In terms of how comfortable you feel on the course, obviously with what happened here five years ago, just how has the feeling been out there for you this afternoon?LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, it's been really good.  It was great playing with Paul.  I think the two of us pulled each other along the whole way, playing some good golf.  Yeah, I love the golf course.  I love this style of golf that you need to play here, and yeah, I just feel very comfortable on this track.Q. And on him, just how impressed are you with how he's playing?LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: He's played unbelievable.  That second shot on 17 was one of the best I've seen.  I think he made me so nervous on my second shot because I was going the complete different route, low, running up there, and I tugged it a little bit to the left.  But it was an amazing shot.  He deserved to birdie that.Q. Did you see what some of the guys were doing earlier on, in particular somebody like Marc Leishman, and have sort of a score in mind or how good scoring conditions were before you teed off?LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, you could see there was a lot of birdies out there, and especially midway through the round, there wasn't a breath of wind out there.  You were supposed to make a lot of birdies.  I was a bit disappointed with bogeying 8 and 12 from really nowhere, two stupid mistakes I made.  But other than that, I came back nicely.Q. If you can go into a little more detail, you love this golf course, but what is it about Louis, St. Andrews, The Open Championship that brings the best out of you?LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I don't know.  Again, I just -- it's so much fun to be playing The Open, playing for the Claret Jug.  It's the biggest tournament that I can play in.  Playing it around St. Andrews makes it obviously a lot more special.  I think every time I come here, even if it's for the Dunhill, if I play around St. Andrews, I really enjoy the track.  I love playing it.  You know, The Open, playing it around here, I hope they have it here every year.Q. You know what it takes to win around here.  From what you saw of Paul today, is it possible that he as an amateur can win this thing?LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Absolutely.  The way he played today, definitely.  I think obviously everyone within three, four shots has got a really good chance of winning, and it's all about composure now and tomorrow really your thought process on how you're going to handle the pressure.  I mean, I think everyone playing for a major championship gets a bit nervous, and a lot of people, that drives them to even play better.  So tomorrow is going to be a good day but a really tough day.Q. How much will you be drawing on 2010 when you go off tomorrow?LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I think just myself, confidence-wise, knowing I've done it before at this golf course, I will take a lot from that.  But there's a lot of golf that needs to be played.  Jordan is obviously looking at making history, so you can expect him to fire on early and to really be up there.  Jason is playing unbelievable.  There's so many players that can still win this.  It's going to be -- I think it's going to be one of the tightest Opens.MIKE WOODCOCK: We thank you for joining us this afternoon.  Best of luck tomorrow.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT