THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2015
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: The putting was going to be the main thing, and I made proper putts for pars, and you need that to keep a round going.   Q.  At a women's major they actually erased some of the play that happened because of a similar situation with the wind.  Do you think maybe they should have thought about that today, or is that too drastic?  LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, that's a tough one.  I think they might have probably thought about it, to do it, but you know, it was just one of those situations when it's that strong a wind, if one group isn't playing, everyone shouldn't be playing, because the guys that are actually playing and losing shots have got a disadvantage.  It was always going to be the 11th green is the green that you test how strong the wind was.  But I think it's just -- 7:00 when we started, some gusts maybe picked up.  We were standing on the 12th green and it was amazing when the siren went to start, it was like it just picked up a notch, and I think it was a really tough call to just immediately stop play.  Probably just trying to see if they could get a few holes in.   Q.  If they had taken those holes away, would you have accepted it?  Would it have made sense to you?  LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Well, after half an hour I think everyone probably played a hole.  I think it probably wouldn't have made that big a difference.   Q.  What was your initial putt on 13 before it moved to a foot?  LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I had a little two-and-a-half footer.  It was still a tough putt because it was a crosswind, and it was going to be a difficult putt.  If I missed it, it probably would have ended eight foot where it actually ended up.  You know, I got really lucky that it went to a foot, and then I got really unlucky that it went to eight foot.   Q.  In your overall situation right now, you're midway through, you're still in the discussion, you're still on that board there.  LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, it's a lot of golf to be played.  I think the weather looks pretty good tomorrow and Monday, so yeah, just looking forward to playing this golf course again.   Q.  What do you think about the Monday finish?  LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: It's -- for The Open, I'll stay until it's done.   Q.  You've seen a lot of Tiger.  Do you think his problems are more mental than physical?  LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Well, I mean, that's really none of my business.  But I mean, I'm not going to say anything to a guy that's won 14 majors.   Q.  Was that a hard putt to sit all day and think about, what you had to make coming out?  LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: On 13?   Q.  Yes.  LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, it was, because you're sort of guessing what the line is going to be, actually waiting to see the putt again, what the wind is going to do, which side is the wind from, and again, it was just on feel.  I just didn't know what the wind was going to do to the ball, so just sit there and sort of just felt what the line was.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT