THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 20, 2020
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. What was your best stretch today?  What are you most happy with today?
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   You know, I've been -- I think it's been a while where I've struggled with drivers and it's normally a strength of my game, and I couldn't find a driver that I was happy with and went back to an old driver head I think three, four weeks ago and started hitting the ball decent again.  I'm hitting fairways and getting more opportunities, hitting greens, rolling the ball nicely today.  Everything was just sort of where you're supposed to be, nothing spectacular, but everything was going fine, going right.
 Q. Having not memorized yet your career FedExCup record, have you been in this position before, and what's the attitude and how is it different than if you were top 10 or top 15 or something like that?
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, well, I think any position really you want to get to Atlanta.  You want to try your best to get to Atlanta.  Last year I know I had to fight hard to get into Atlanta, and I did well at the end there to get in.
 This week I need a good week to get to next week, and then I need an even better week to get to Atlanta.  It's a little bit more attack, I think, in the game, a little bit more aggressive.  I think my Sunday you'll know exactly in what position you are, and it might be a case of going out Sunday afternoon trying -- going at pins and things that you might not normally do.  But up until Sunday I think I'm just going to play the normal game and see where I'm at when I get there.
 Q. This course, even though the final part of it wasn't a very happy ending for you, it was a great dual with you and Rory that never quite materialized because your back went out on you that day, didn't it?
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   No, the back was fine.  I messed up on the 17th hole really.  I had a huge opportunity where Rory was struggling on that hole and I missed the green and ended up making bogey.
 But yeah, it's a golf course where it suits my eye.  I really enjoy it around here.  I always feel like when I play here I play a little better for some reason.  So you get those golf courses where you just feel that comfortable on, and this is definitely one of them.  You know, a good start here this week was really important for me.
 Q. I'm curious what the rest of your year looks like at this point.
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   A lot of golf.  I normally play -- I don't play a lot in the fall and then really start with Mexico, Honda and then have a lot of catching up to do.  This year that sort of was tough starting at Colonial with only, I think -- only done like four events up until there, four or five.  Next season I'm going to play a lot more in the fall.  I'm going to be here.  I'm unfortunately not going back to South Africa this year --
 Q. Is that a pandemic reason?
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, they're still doing quarantine down there, and it's just a lot of things going on.  I think it'll be a lot of risk going, and I'm not sure if I can get back here.  Probably going to give it a skip this year.  I'll be playing quite a few more events on this side.
 Q. And then you've probably got the potential of two events maybe being a little bit closer?
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, I mean, if that happens.  I need a good week here to get into next week to get into them.  So it's a lot riding on this week.  But yeah, like I say, I'm happy that it's on this golf course.  I just need to be playing the way I'm playing.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT