TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 23, 2015
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MARK STEVENS: We'd like to welcome Louis Oosthuizen coming off a very exciting finish at the U.S. Open where you finished T2, and you're about to make your second start at the Travelers Championship.  Kind of talk about the adjustment from last week coming into this week, and we'll have a few questions.LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, it's a completely different golf course.  So, I changed quite a few things in my bag already.  I haven't even been out there yet, but two of the clubs I normally would have in my golf bag.  But, yeah, I'm looking forward to the week.  I like it here.  I've played here before, and unfortunately last year had a bit of problems injury-wise, but looking forward to this week.Q. Will you just touch on it a little bit.  Obviously, last week it was a golf course where you were trying to make par.  It's a different story this week.  So just talk about that transition?LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, it's definitely been last week we played a golf course where we had to pitch in one certain spot and ended up to the hole or middle of the green.  This week you actually get your number, and you see the shot that you feel comfortable with.  And I think it's probably just like a few holes tomorrow to realize that you'll get some spin on the ball again and just see how the greens react.  But it's normally a bit of change between link style golf and the way this golf course is.Q. What do you like about the stretch of holes coming down, particularly 16, 17 -- or excuse me, 15, 16, 17, coming down to the end?LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, 15, obviously is drivable this week, so it's a good opportunity if you're a few shots behind to really have a go at it.  16's a good par-3.  17 is a tough tee shot.  You need to get the tee shot on the fairway.  Then 18 also, if you hit a good drive, you can make a good birdie.  But if you miss the fairway, you're going to have trouble.  So it's a good stretch to, I think, to make a few shots up.  It's also a good stretch to just hang on to the lead and see if you can just give yourself some birdie putts and maybe get one or two.Q. Your last round on Sunday, what does that mean for you coming into this week?  Do you look for carry over?  Does it matter at all?  How do you approach that?LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I'll take a lot of positives out of last week.  I mean, just after my first round really, to be able to even play on the weekend was a lot for me.  I'll take a lot out of that.  Just finding my game, really I think mid-way second round.  Just saw the ball a bit better.  Started putting better, just running a little bit.  Obviously there were a lot of issues on the greens last week, but I found something in my stroke that just I felt comfortable over a putt. And, yeah, I think the way I've come back the last nine holes last week helped give me a great look at this week trying to carry that over into this week and trying to get just to have a soiled week this week.Q. Talk about Chambers Bay.  What are your thoughts on that course?LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Oh, well, I think so much has been said that I really want to -- while I'm taking a lot of positives out of the week and finished in second, I want to forget about that golf course for now and focus on this week.  It was definitely different, completely different to what we play every week. You know, I like links golf, but there was something different than links golf.  It wasn't the way links golf should be played.  It was just a tough week.  I think the mental game was the biggest issue there that week that the golf course could really get you down in the dumps and make you want to go home early.  The whole idea for the week, or my thought of the week was someone's got to win it, so might as well just give it your best and see what happens.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT