U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 21, 2015
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. There's only one other position that you might have liked better than the one you ended up with, but better than 155 other guys.  Are you pretty happy with the outcome?LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I'm very happy.  I had a rough start.  Started awfully, really.  The first fairways the first few holes, couldn't get to greens, had to struggle.  3-over through 4 is not the start you want. I pushed myself the last few holes to be more aggressive on putts.  Just to see if I can get to some sort of number.  I think to hole that wedge on 14 got me really motivated for those last four holes. Jordan played well.  He played well the whole week.  I think after my start the first round, I'm very happy for where I am now.Q. The last 7 holes you made birdie, that's an amazing stretch, especially under the pressure of championship Sunday.  How proud of yourself are you?LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: You sort of forget how you play when you get in that situation of having a chance of winning a major.  The last time I felt that was in 2012 at Augusta.  It was nice being in that spot again. I felt very relaxed.  I felt eager to get to the next hole and try and get some birdies going.  I wasn't nervous at all.  I'll take a lot out of this week, especially the last three days the way I played. I could have easily today shoot a big number after that start.  I just fought and tried to just have a good week.Q. What was the feeling like when every shot looks like it's going to be another birdie?LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: It's great.  I hope I get it every week.  It's good. I actually had a lot of opportunities from the 7th.  I just couldn't get my speed right to get the ball to the hole.  I missed that short eagle putt on 12. 13, I made a nice long birdie putt.  I pushed myself to really go for it.  Just had to hack it out of the bunker on 14.  And when I held that wedge, I knew with the holes coming up, 16 and 18, I might get three more in if I can make an eagle somewhere and birdie. It was a great feeling when you go more aggressive at putts and it goes in.  It doesn't always work, but I begged myself a bit on the last few holes to really have a go at it.Q. What was in your mind when you birdied 18 completed that 6-under back nine?LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I thought 4 under would probably be second and then when I walked in, I saw Jordan made double on 17.  All of a sudden, you know, it changed. 18, you had to keep it right of that bunker your tee shot or you could easily run into it.  I saw on the shot tracker that you needed a cut to keep it short of it. Obviously the second shot, not the easiest second shot.  You can so easily just get the 3-wood wrong and just hit it through the green and it stays on the top and then you have a really tough up-and-down. I knew it wasn't over until he hit that 3-wood obviously.  I don't think he's ever 3-putted from that distance in his life.Q. Millions of people were shocked, were you?  What did you do to turn yourself around after that first round?LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I just kept on playing.  You get rounds like that.  But proud of myself the way I came back and kept on playing and knew my game was not far off.  That 77 was -- I could have easily had a horrible Friday and watched this on television.Q. Millions of people were shocked by the finish.  How about you?LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I didn't see it.  I just heard he 3-putted.  It's never nice seeing that.  We all get in those situations.  I was pretty sure it was going to be a Monday finish.  Those things happen.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT