WGC CADILLAC MATCH PLAY
May 2, 2015
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How tough was that?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I mean, I played so well the first 10 or 11 holes and Rickie came back strong.   I could have been 5‑up through 10 really the way I was hitting it.   Then just missed a few crucial putts at crucial times.   Rickie fought back.   It was a pity to see it finish the way it did.   Really good shot there.   
   
 Q.   Speaking of that second shot, we've seen you hit some great second shots to par‑5s in your career.   Talk about this one.   What did you see from the fairway here today?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I had 220 to the front.   And this week I've left my 5‑wood in the bag.   I actually took my 3‑wood out.   Especially for the rough being this thick, I feel like I can hit this 5‑wood out of any lie.   I could just get that low running ball.   It was lying thick, but it was not down.   I could get 5‑wood on it.   And I knew I just needed to get it in this neck and run up here.   
   
 Q.   It seems like we've been talking about your health for years now.   Right now you are 100 percent healthy.   What is it inside of you right now that comes out of you when you are playing so well and you have your health at 100 percent?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I had a great 2012 season and I wanted to build on from that.   I got stopped in my tracks for two years.   I feel very confident this year.   I'm playing well.   I'm getting better on the greens.   I still have a lot of work to do.   I feel like the game is there and I need to win a big one.  
   
 Q.   Another dog fight out here.   You had a 3‑hole lead at one point.   You battled back, missed some putts, but prevailed on the 18th?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   We made good birdies.   I missed a few crucial putts.   I made one bad stroke.   The others, just had a few very bad lip‑outs.   Other than that played nicely, just couldn't really ‑‑ after the three holes, he won 11, 13 and 14, I needed to just regroup myself.   
And on 15, I had a good putt for birdie just to hit a good one.   Yeah, it was a pity the way 18 played out.   I would have liked to have holed it for the win.   At the end of the day, it's all good.   
   
 Q.   Tell me about the second shot here at 18.   You are in the rough.   A lot of people think he's going to lay up in the fairway somewhere, but you put it in there nice and tight.   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I've got that 5‑wood that I feel like I need out of any lie.   I can get quite steep on it and hit that runny shot.   It was a perfect yardage for me.   It's just going to have a lot of top spin on it.   Just needed to get the aim right.  
   
 Q.   Next match, Jim Furyk, you are going to be grinding against Jim?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I need to play well.   I need to putt well.   He's going to be in my face the whole time.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT