WGC CADILLAC MATCH PLAY
April 30, 2015
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Show down on Friday between you and Bubba Watson?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, we played, me and Miguel, I think I was 7‑under through 18.   I think he was probably 4‑under.   So, you know, we played some really good golf.   It's always‑‑ it's never nice being on the losing side of it.   But we're good friends and he's a great player.   And, yeah, he kept me busy.

Q.   You apparently have adjusted to the speed of these greens.   Some players are struggling.   But you're finding birdies on this difficult golf course?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, the greens, like I said yesterday, was like reminded me back playing at Fancourt on the two golf courses up in Johannesburg.   This is the greens that we grew up with.   And I see the lines pretty good.   I just‑‑ the speed really did us well.   So, yeah, I'm pretty confident standing on putts.

Q.   What are your thoughts with that match with Bubba?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Hopefully it's going to be a tight one.   But obviously I'm going to have to play well.   Bubba is playing some good golf.   I need to bring my game tomorrow. 

Q.   You beat Miguel 2‑up.   2‑up in yesterday's match.   How important is that early momentum?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, it's definitely‑‑ I think it's important just to get a little bit ahead and then try and push forward.   I played really well.   I was 3‑up through 5 and then from the 6th hole Miguel really started playing good golf.   Between the two of us we made lots of birdies.
So, yeah, it was good golf.   And I needed to hit a really good shot on 17.   He was in the rough on the left and then I had a pretty good flier into about ten foot.   The last hole I just needed to two‑putt that one.

Q.   How is this course for this format play for you?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Well, it's‑‑ you know, the rough is up, I think.   In a stroke play tournament you might play it a little bit different.   If you hit the rough now you still go for the shot, lose one hole. 
It's tough around the greens.   You need to hit the greens.   Luckily they're quite big, so you can leave yourself massive putts.   But it's a great golf course.   It's a great format.   So, yeah, just need to play well tomorrow again.

Q.   Bubba Watson tomorrow, basically whoever wins that goes through.   After the Masters you might get some revenge?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, you're not playing for a green jacket, but still I need to play well.   He's playing obviously good golf, as well.   So I need to come in and have a good start and just make birdies. 

Q.   It was a bit of an up and down front nine, what was going through your mind on the back nine?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, after the 9th hole I was 1‑up, and I think we‑‑ I think we halved it all the way to 15.   And then on 16 I just‑‑ after my second shot I knew I was in trouble because Miguel is a really good short iron player, and made it into three foot.   Luckily on 17 he left the door open for me.   I hit a really good 4‑iron to ten foot.   And just needed to two putt that last hole for the win.

Q.   You will face Bubba Watson tomorrow.   The winner will move on.   Talk about what will be going through your head.   Will you be thinking about the 2012 Masters, and maybe looking at getting some redemption?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   No, that was a long time ago.   But I will be focused on I need to play well because Bubba I don't think, 1, 2, 3‑up is easy for him to get back.   He's a great player.   I just need to focus and play really well. 

Q.   How are you feeling after today?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I feel good.   I played well again.   Played really well the first‑‑ front nine.   But Miguel started playing some really good golf from the 6th, 7th hole.   And then I had to do well on the 17th and two putt that last hole.   All in all I'm playing really well.   And we had a good match today.

Q.   There's no green jacket on the line this time around, but still fans are going to look back to the 2012 Masters with you and Bubba head‑to‑head with winner going on tomorrow?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, I just hope he doesn't leave it somewhere where he needs to use that hook around the tree, because then I'm in trouble.   Yeah, I mean I'll probably be thinking about that, but once I'm on the golf course I know I need to focus and play well because he's going to come with everything he's got. 

Q.   How much have you guys played head‑to‑head since that Masters?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   No, I don't think‑‑ I don't think we really have.

Q.   Have you been in a pairing with him at all?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, I played with him on one Northern Trust, the first two rounds I played with him.   That was probably about it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT