RBC HERITAGE
April 17, 2015
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   A couple birdies and an eagle, that's the way to play the second round of the RBC Heritage, right?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, it wasn't the greatest start and then I made a silly bogey on the par 5 on 15.   But got it going from there.   The rest was fine.   Hit it nicely.   Putted nicely.   I missed two short putts, but other than that I putted beautifully.   Yeah, good spot going into the weekend.

Q.   You played the front nine as your second nine.   Tell us about the eagle at 2, and how that kept it going for you during the middle of that round. 
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, it was playing down, the tee shot, I made a really good tee shot.   Hit a 7‑iron in there and I hit it to ten feet, and probably left myself with the easiest putt just right off.
So, yeah, it felt easy when I stood on the next tee.   But it was three good shots there.

Q.   How about the conditions today as compared to yesterday, when it felt a lot cooler and windier?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, yesterday was quite cold and the ball didn't travel as far.   And it's always not great having a lot of layers on trying to make proper swings.   But today is different.   I think you can expect a few good scores this afternoon. 
It's the type of golf course where you've got to be pinpoint with your shots because there's always a tree in your way around the corner.

Q.   Much calmer conditions today compared to yesterday.   And you posted a decent number.   Are you satisfied with your play today?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah.   There was one or two not great things in there.   Really stripped a three‑putt on 15 for bogey.   But other than that played nicely.   Made good putts.   Hit the ball nicely.   So, yeah, it's a good spot to go into the weekend.

Q.   For those who have been following you, they would notice the fact that you have been trending in a positive direction, and you seem very confident with your game.   How high is that confidence level for you right now?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, it's good.   I'm playing better every week.   I feel a lot more comfortable every week.   What we've been working on the last six, seven months on getting fit and healthy.   And we're definitely making good progress. 
It's all positive.   And hopefully I can get the game where I want it really soon.

Q.   Just talk a little bit about your round.   Right there kind of where you want to be heading into the weekend?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah.   Played nicely.   A few mistakes, but a lot of good coming out of the round.   So good position going into the weekend. 

Q.   Talk a little bit about conditions today as compared to yesterday.   Was it a little easier for you out there today?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, definitely not having all the clothing on makes a big difference.   The ball wasn't traveling that far yesterday.   Today it was a lot better, and not as windy.   So definitely a day where you could score.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT