MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2015
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Two very different days. 
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, all 18 the ball striking was really good today, just didn't make any putts on the back nine.   I putted brilliantly the whole day and, I don't know, there was a few that could have gone in that just didn't.
(Wind noise.)
The last hour, hour and a half, the wind picked up and it got a lot tougher. 

Q.   Jordan seems to be running away with the tournament. 
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Well, Jordan's obviously playing well going into this week and if he keeps doing what he's doing, it's brilliant, the way he's playing. 
So the way he's playing now, it's all going to be on him on the weekend.   I don't think anyone else is really pushing really hard, but obviously he's playing really well, so the course is tough.   The way he's playing, what he's doing is pretty special.

Q.   How do you go into the weekend?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Oh, I'm trying to give myself as many birdie putts as I can and just hope.   I think around this golf course, with nine holes to go, you can make the decision if you're really into contention to push it a bit harder, but at the moment it's going to be all on him on how he plays over the weekend. 

Q.   Did you feed off Ernie at all?   What's kind of the camaraderie amongst the South Africans?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, Ernie played lovely.   He played in front of me and he started nicely today as well. 
But, no, we feed off each other, I think all of us.   When someone plays better than the other one, you sort of, the next day, you want to play a little bit better to catch them.   So, it's great.   We are all good friends and we normally play practice rounds together and it's great fun. 

Q.   What is it about Augusta?   I looked at your record, it's either feast or famine with you. 
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Well, it's a tough course, isn't it.   So if you're not, if you're not on your game, you're going to be out of here early.   You got to be spot on on your second shots.   That's what's making today really tough. 
The conditions are difficult out there now to really pick a spot and hit it there.   You might miss one or two on the wrong side and make bogeys. 
But, yeah, I love this golf course.   I feel if I play well, if I come in playing well, I've got a good chance at winning the event.   And if I don't play well, then obviously I won't be around.

Q.   They always talk about experience being such a big factor here.   Do you feel like you learn something every year you come here?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Definitely.   Every year you find a place you shouldn't go, but, yeah, a few putts out here today I just knew that, not to go close to those pins, just hit it 30 or 40 feet from the hole and take your chances on making a long birdie putt.   And you just need to know these things, because, otherwise, if you short side yourself, you can do that really easy and make a big number. 

Q.   Is there one player you've had the most advice from on how to play Augusta National?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I think it's a golf course in a way you need to figure out yourself how to play it.   Seeing how the guys that have won it before played might be different.   And I think that's the key to a lot of it. 
Ernie plays how he plays and I watched a lot of Charl and the guys that really play well on this golf course and I think that that helped me more than (tape ended.)







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT