TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 25, 2020
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How would you assess your round out there today?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, good. You know, nice and solid. Didn't do much wrong. One errant tee shot on 15, but other than that, just gave myself lots of opportunities.
Q. How has your game progressed over these first few weeks here of coming back?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I was very rusty coming back. Last week was probably as bad as I can hit it, and I was horrible on the greens, as well. Not a lot of confidence going into this week, but I worked hard on Tuesday and Wednesday and found a few things again, a few things that I remembered what I did in January and February when I was playing decent, so tried to go back to that.
Q. What were some of those feels if you can share?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: It was a setup in my putting that I did in Abu Dhabi at the beginning of the year, so it's just a more comfortable approach to getting into my setup. And with the iron shots, I was getting a little loose, trying to hit too many full shots, and from Tuesday and Wednesday I started hitting more my flighted shot, a little bit more three-quarter compression shots, and started finding my timing again.
Q. Does it kind of help when you go back on some feels, when you had good positive momentum earlier in the year? When things click like that, do you go, I know how this feels, I know this is where I need to be going?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I think I felt like I was playing decent coming to the PGA TOUR sort of this year, playing decent in South Africa and a few in Europe and end of last year. So I tried to keep everything pretty similar and remembering what I did, but sort of gone away from it. And then we all had that big break, so it didn't really help me. But yeah, it's a slow sort of start coming back to it, but at least now it feels like I'm in the right direction.
Q. How much did the course change out there during the round?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I mean, front nine was great, not really windy, but then we got to like 11, 12, and it really started picking up. Right now there's quite a stiff breeze out there. I mean, the Tuesday practice round was probably as much wind as I've ever played this golf course. So I do think it's going to dry out a little bit and expect the greens to firm up quite a bit.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT