DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 23, 2014
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Thoughts on the day?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I felt it coming for a while.   The whole week has been not the best performance on the greens.   But now that it's so close to the leaders, it's a bit disappointing that I didn't make many putts the first three days.   Today I made a few.   But yeah, all in all, you know, good finish to the season and I've got two events left, and hopefully can take a lot of positives out of this week. 

Q.   Always hard to gauge, but you fancy it's going to be right up there kind of at the end, not a victory chance but a nice finish? 
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, I think the bogey on 17, the 3‑putt on 17, is going to be costly.   I reckon 13‑under might be third or fourth.   I think 12 is probably going to go down to fifth or sixth, but that's fine.   I played well today.   I played nicely.   Hit a lot of greens and made a lot of birdie putts.   So, yeah, I'm happy.

Q.   It's the end of The European Tour season, so how do you reflect on this year?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   It's been a good start, and a few injuries along the way, and sort of the last two months have been playing a bit better.   But I've hopefully got all that sorted and going to have a strong next season.

Q.   Start was the Volvo Champions with your defense of the title, and we thought, everything was going to happen for you didn't we, really?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, it all sort of started well and then the injury pulled me back.   But yeah, it's been a good start and I can take a lot of positive this week into the last two and starting off the next season. 

Q.   Next two, you're keeping busy?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, Nedbank, and then Leopard Creek.   So looking forward to those two. 

Q.   Nice to be playing at home in beautiful places? 
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, both of them is probably going to be as hot as this, so it will be great seeing a bit of the South African support. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT