HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 17, 2014
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We will get started.   I would like to welcome Louis Oosthuizen, you got it to be 10‑under today.   If you want to talk about the conditions and what was going well for you and then we will have a few questions.   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, started out really rough.   You know, 2‑over through four holes, but got it going again when I made a nice birdie on 5 and just really made good putts.   Every opportunity I had for birdie I actually made.   My eye was good today, and I hit a lot of them really close and it got windy on the back nine and, you know, I seemed to like that conditions if it's windy, but, yeah, I scrambled well today and felt like I hit the ball better yesterday, but today was just, I think, I hit quite a few good iron shots that made me quite a few birdies.   
   
 Q.   Not to bring up bad news but last year at this same point you had to withdraw with the neck injury.   Can you take everybody through that and what went on?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, neck injury, which was an old injury that flared up again and, you know, it was just one of those where I was on the range and couldn't really take the club back properly and I didn't want to hurt it further.   The last year and a half was really frustrating for me, injury on injury, I've been struggling still with lower back injuries and had to withdraw three, four weeks ago when I played in I understand Indonesia so it's a frustrating season for me so far, because just now and then I really get issues with my back and can't really get to the bottom of it.   Working on a few things to see if we can get it sorted out.   
   
 Q.   Louie, considering all those injuries how rewarding is it to be back in contention?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Oh, yeah, it's great.   I love the golf course.   It's a golf course I can see myself playing well, you know, scoring well on, and I think I saw a bit of that today.   
If you really hit some good iron shots you can make quite a few birdies, but it's great being back.   I love it out there.   These two weeks it's always fun to come play.   
   
 Q.   Considering last year do you have a little bit of unfinished business that you would like to close the door on tomorrow?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I hope so.   Yeah, I mean, I played average last year, but I can't remember what position I was in before I withdrew but, yeah.   Still, you know, it's a course I feel comfortable on.   But, yeah, 18 more holes to go.   It can get really windy like it is out there now and you gotta stay patient out here and just keep on hitting good shots, because if you miss fairways here, coming out of the rough it's tricky to control your distance and it gets really difficult if you start missing fairways.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the last‑‑ I think you birdied three out of the last four holes.   Talk about finishing strong and what came together on that closing stretch.   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, on 14 I hit it to, I think, two and a half feet.   Again, good iron shot right into the wind a little, knocked down one, and then 15, "Kuch" gave me a good read off his putt.   I was on the same line and I made that for birdie.   16, I could reach it in two good shots to get on the green, tough first putt but I hit a good one and I think 17 today was probably the most difficult tee shot, even though they moved the tee shot up with that wind it was really tough and finished with a really good 2‑putt for par there and, you know, 18, again, it was a good distance for me, a good knock‑down shot and just hit really, really good iron shots today to leave myself with fairly short birdie putts.   
   
 Q.   When you end so hot, does that momentum carry over to the next day?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, it does.   You know, it's always nice finishing around on a high.   You sort of feed off that the next morning or the next day and that keeps you going tomorrow is going to be only a day and obviously a little bit more pressure on everyone that's in the last groups but, you know, that's great to put yourself in that position and see how you face it and try to get out on top.   
   
 Q.   We see some tournaments where there are two or three guys fighting for position but obviously in this tournament there's going to be a lot of guys in the mix.   How different is it when that happens, to win on Sunday?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Spectator wise it's great to watch it, when it's really tight like it is now.   
I think for us on the golf course you only want two or three guys up there to have a chance rather than having to fight off six or seven guys.   So, again, I think the last four is going to do everything tomorrow, great finishing holes and 16 being a par 5 which you can eagle so that will be great to see how many guys are really in contention with a few holes to go.   
   
 Q.   In addition to you up top, Padraig Harrington, Mike Weir, Major Champions, can you talk about why they're playing so well this week?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   You mean all of us or‑‑  
   
 Q.   Yes.   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I think Padraig won the U.S. Open twice, really windy conditions.   Born in Ireland, he loves playing in windy conditions.   I played with him today.   He's hitting the ball really well and I had some great pars, and even Mike, you will definitely see him up there tomorrow so it's definitely a tough leaderboard at the top to try and play for pars.   I think you need to go out tomorrow and still with a thought that you need to play at least 4 or 5‑under top win this event.   
   
 Q.   When did you move to the states, to Florida, and how do you think that's affected you playing the U.S. tournaments?   Do you think that's helped you since you moved here?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, we moved over two years ago, maybe a bit more.   Yeah, family is settled in, we really like it here and I think it's‑‑ I wanted to come over here and get familiar more with the TOUR and playing a full schedule and it's just taking me a bit longer to really get my game where I want it to be.   Hopefully this weekend can kick off something and get my game on the track that I want it to be.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks for your time, Louie.   Best of luck tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT