MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2014
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Can you talk about 15 and the perils of just being around the green around here and the difficulties?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, I mean, you know, I'm still trying to figure out how they fall.   I took more club, obviously, with that wind.   But my play was always pitching it five yards from the back, just going through the back of the fairway, which was fine.   But somehow I pitched them way too long and it went through to the rough.   Just seeing Matt get in the water with a 3‑wood, I only went 215 yards.   So I've got to be thinking that it's a slightly hurting wind.
I just got myself in a really awkward spot.   I didn't have much option to go for that chip.   If I went left I would have ended up in that bunker, and that's even a more difficult shot than I played.
So this golf course is all about leaving yourself in the right spots and that was an error.   So I know now not to go there again.

Q.   Yesterday you said you were going to smile your troubles away, did that work for you today?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   No‑‑ well, you know, a lot of things happen.   It's the early days, a lot of golf we play.   The way the wind is now, the scoring is going to be tough this afternoon.   At the moment, 5 off the pace, 36 to go, I'm happy.

Q.   How frustrating is it, though, you're climbing up the leaderboard and then all of a sudden it's gone?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Not‑‑ I mean this type of golf course, you know that can happen.   You just need to focus and get on with it.   And, you know, I think it's more‑‑ it's more disappointing when on Sunday and something like that happens.   In the moment I'm in a good position for the tournament.

Q.   You said you want to go to the range.   What do you specifically want to work on?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I want to go to the range and I'm looking at this now and the wind is really picking up.   I want to do a few 50 yard shots and just get a bit of a feel, especially in the wind like this.

Q.   How glad are you to be done when you're seeing the flags looking like they are now?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, I'm pretty happy because yesterday afternoon was tough and the wind wasn't close to what it is now.   So I think you can expect really tough scoring out there this afternoon. 

Q.   Talk about 13.
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, I mean I went for that tee shot, hit a big tee shot, and just a standard 7‑iron for me, you know.   Everything there is on your aiming on the second shot with the slope that you have.   And I had a good shot to eight foot, I think.   And it was a pretty, pretty easy putt. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT