MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2014
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 Q.   Did you see this round coming?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I've been playing, I felt like I've been playing, hitting the ball well the last month or so, just last week wasn't really I wasn't really bothered with the way I played last week, just the back nine on Friday I made a few errors.   But yeah I've been feeling this coming for awhile that I'm swinging well, playing well, and I had a bit of a scare yesterday when I picked up my little girl, but just this morning it was all better.   
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   No, I mean there's so many difficult putts out there, the greens were so slick and it was one of those where I could so easily hit that past the pin all the way down to the front.   So I talked myself a little bit out that have first putt.   You get it around here.   
I didn't hit a good second putt, but those things happen.  
   
 Q.   And then on 18?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, I hit that putt in the practice round and I had a good line on it and it was just sort of all about speed.  
   
 Q.   How long was that one on 18?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Probably 20 feet, I think.   
   
 Q.   What is the, does the back feel better now than it's felt in a while?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, some days it's good, some days it's not.   So I'm managing it pretty good, knowing what I should and shouldn't do.   One of the things is probably not to pick up my little girl running towards me.   That's tough to not do that, but, yeah, I just need to manage it some.   Hopefully, in a few months it will be better and I'll be fine.  
   
 Q.   When you're standing on the tee on the 1st did you think about the cut last year or the second place the year before?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I don't think of any of that once I get out there.   Once you get out on the course you're just trying to make a good score.   
   
 Q.   You finished second here, is that a confidence boost just because you've done so well?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, this gives you a confidence boost, but that you know you can do well on the golf course.   
So, I don't know, if you're playing well and you see it every year with guys that have won here before, if they're playing here the last few holes, they're usually up on the leaderboard.   So I know I can play this golf course, but your game needs to be on form.  
   
 Q.   Is it hard to have fun when it's this challenging?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   No, it was great fun out there.   I tried to smile my troubles away when it gets difficult.   But it's going to be tough for everyone and for a Thursday it was pretty slick on the greens.  
   
 Q.   The second hole, you have a history there, just how it's playing and how you're playing it.   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I feel like I could chip it in for eagle today.   Yeah, two weeks ago I played it and I got on that hole and I chipped it in from exactly the same spot, a really similar spot.   I chipped it in for eagle.   
I stood there today and I thought, well, this can have a chance.   So I think I used to be pretty, well pretty bad before the two I made on that hole.   After the two, I've been making a few more birdies there.   So I just needed that chip to get me going.   
   
 Q.   Is there a great difference between second place and missing cuts or did you just not play well those years?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Again, if you're playing well, I can see myself doing really well this week.   But a lot of like ‑‑ well last year I wasn't on my game, I felt like I was struggling with my short game and these greens you can't struggle in that area of your game.   So that's the huge difference.   
   
 Q.   The first tee today, how is it different?   If you could remember back to the first time you played at the Masters, if you could give one piece of advice to a first time Masters rookie, what would you tell them?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Just go out and have fun.   This golf course you learn to play over the years.   I think if you do really well your first year, you've done something that a lot of guys haven't done.   So just have fun.   Just to be here is a great experience.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT