VOLVO GOLF CHAMPIONS
January 12, 2014
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   First of all, congratulations from all of us, winning this championship once more.   What's it like to go back‑to‑back here at Durban?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   It feels good now.   Yeah, it was nerve‑wracking there through the round, but I knew once I turned on 14, I need to make birdies and the 15th hole, that birdie putt was crucially felt and I just missed it.   And then something about the 16th tee shot got me this week.   But yeah, I finished strong and I'm just happy that I got it done.   
   
 Q.   You South Africans are so tough to beat at home, on top of the board all week; how do you guys do it down here?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   It's a good thing before the cricket is coming.   Yeah, I think the home crowd is really spurring us along, and I saw Branden up there and I knew he wasn't going away.   I thought it was going to be‑‑ he was probably going to get it to 12, but he made bogey somewhere.   
Yeah, I think we just love playing in South Africa.   
   
 Q.   A few words on the golf course and what a layout it is.   Fantastic, isn't it?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, it is.   The holes, it's not a long golf course and the holes sort of force you to hit every one in the same position.   You can take it on if you want but if you're off‑line, you can make a big number.   But hats off to Durban Country Club, the staff, everyone for again putting a great week up and Volvo for their involvement, the tournament sponsor.   It's been a phenomenal week.   
   
 Q.   Last year you were injured quite a lot; are you ready to go and get a green jacket or one of those Majors this year?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, that would be good. That would be great.   I've got three weeks now that I really need to work on my back.   It's still not 100 percent.   Luckily this week, I didn't have to hit a lot of drivers, but once I get to Augusta, I need to hit driver.   
   
 Q.   A successful title defence and a fabulous finish with those two birdies.   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   My tee shot on 16, I was lucky that I could chip it out and nearly made a great par.   But I knew that when I stood over the ball on 17, I saw Branden made birdie on 18, so I knew that second shot was crucial to give myself a good birdie opportunity, and you know, I hit it really close.   
And then 18, everyone thinks you just need to make a birdie, but around that green, it's not easy, and luckily I was far enough where I could pitch it back into the grain and I could get it close.  
   
 Q.   After all the injury problems that you've had, this must be hugely satisfying to be standing here right at the start of the new year with a victory already under your belt?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, I've still got a few little niggles that I need to work on with my back, but it's been great.   With the holiday, didn't really do much golf work, and this week, the golf course, it's great for the start of the year; a lot of irons off the tee and I just feel really comfortable around here.  
   
 Q.   What is it about you South Africans, you are so dominant down here at the moment?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I knew Branden was going to make a charge and I saw him up there early, and Thomas started off really well.   So I really thought that you're going to see the South Africans coming through today, and Joost played really well, just missed a few putts.   He's a good player but Branden was the one that really spurred me on to finish well.  
   
 Q.   What does this do for your confidence levels and expectations level for this year now?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Well, it's an awesome start for the year.   Confidence‑wise, it's great.   I haven't played really well last year with all the injuries and just didn't really play well.   So hopefully I can build from here on and just go better next time.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT