VOLVO GOLF CHAMPIONS
January 11, 2014
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Plenty of frustration, a good way to finish going into the last day?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, right in it.   Just a lot of birdies today, and a lot of bogeys, as well.   But still, in good position for tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   What is it about this golf course that can jump up and bite you like it can?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, I was not great off the tee today.   It had a few wayward ones.   You know, just put myself in a bit of trouble on some holes but still very happy to be one or two behind going into tomorrow, and you know, tomorrow I just need to focus a bit more to keep those bogeys off the card.  
   
 Q.   Plenty of local support out here in Durban for the final round?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, the crowds have been really good, and now with Gracey and Charl playing well, as well, I think Sunday will be nice.   
   
 Q.   What's your verdict on round three?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   It's the swing I've been talking about, holiday swing today; a lot of birdies but a lot of bogeys, as well.   Frustrated that finally I had my seven birdies, which around this golf course you should make a lot of birdies, but way too many mistakes today.  
   
 Q.   Something of everything, including 16, hate to go through that but what happened there?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, I had a lie, a flyer lie, and I didn't think it was not going to hook around the tree at all.   Took the spin off the ball completely and just went straight through.   We had a look at that even that line with that Bush at the back and there was no way that I can get a 9‑iron there.   And then, you know, it pitched, I think it was 167 metres into the wind with a 9‑iron, so if I can do that all the time, you know, that's quite an achievement.   
It just went so far.   If I missed it short right where I did the next shot, it would have been fine.  
   
 Q.   All important to finish in the manner you did, because it's nice position for the weekend, isn't it?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   In a way, it's nice playing just in front of the guys, so if I can go out early and make a few birdies, it will be nice, but you know, Branden is playing well, Charl is playing well, and you can expect them playing well tomorrow, as well.  
   
 Q.   What was it, five back last year into the final round?   Not that far back this time.   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, but you don't want to give yourself unnecessary work to do.   I had a good opportunity today to probably go to 12‑under at least.   But you know, a hole like 16 just gets you back into perspective in your mind and I knew 17, 18, was important not to drop another shot.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT