VOLVO GOLF CHAMPIONS
January 10, 2014
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  STEVE TODD:   Lieu‑thanks for joining us again, another good day out there.   If you can just run us through how it went from your point of view.   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, golf course was completely different than yesterday.   It was probably a bit tougher because we're coming in, 18, tough position today for that wind.   Holing out a lot of good par putts and had a few good chips to save my pars, but that's what you have to do to stay up there, and I still feel good heading into the weekend, so just need to play a little bit better tomorrow.   
STEVE TODD:   Given the first tournament of the year, you must be delighted.  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, luckily it's the type of golf course where you can get away with it by not hitting a lot of drivers or 3‑woods.   So yeah, just need to keep it together on the weekend.   
   
 Q.   You spent quite a lot of time with the family; are you happy with your‑‑  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, I had one bad bunker shot on 15, but I had a nice putt for par there and I feel comfortable around the greens.   So didn't really bother me.   
   
 Q.   On 8, quite a tough putt.   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, I didn't hit a good tee shot.   It was either laying it up short of the bunker, and I know that shot is blind, the third shot.   I tried to hit it just over that trap but turned it over way too much, and then was completely blocked out and ended up making a good six.   
   
 Q.   How much did conditions change from yesterday to today?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Everything changed because the wind was completely different.   First five holes I felt like they were scoring holes.   You needed to probably go one, maybe 2‑under on those five holes.   And then you've got,7 was tough, and you've got 11 was a really tough hole today and then when you turned to 14, where yesterday, 2‑iron, 5‑iron, and today I couldn't get there with two 3‑woods.   
It was definitely playing more difficult and I just hit my pitching wedge great from 40, 50 yards on a few occasions.   I just need to give myself more chances.   
   
 Q.   Last year on the Saturday, it was wet.   Tomorrow it's wet and rain.   Last year, you fell behind.   What's going to be the plan for tomorrow?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   We will see tomorrow when it comes.   Yeah, I mean, golf course will play a bit softer, a little bit longer.   Greens, you can attack it a bit more.   You never know, might see a few more drivers.   
   
 Q.   Finishing with eight pars?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, the way I was hitting it the last few holes, I'll take that.   I feel the wind condition, it was tough.   You know, so many downwind shots; 13, drivable, and I missed it in the wrong spot with a driver.   I hit it left and no chance on that shot.   
But yeah, I mean, like I said, the last five holes was really tough and it changed everything.   Yesterday you felt like you could still make two or three birdies on those holes, and today, I didn't hit my irons that well.   You know, I was just making saves to finish par.   
   
 Q.   The Pro‑Am, how was it today and did it help or affect you?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   No, it didn't affect us at all.   We played great but didn't really have a run of birdies.   Hits the ball beautiful off the tee.   It was good fun.   That's what the day is all about.   It was fun out there, and I think the three of us had a good time.   
   
 Q.   What's your confidence like now that you're still with the leaders going into the weekend?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   It's good.   Just need to be a bit more aggressive on the greens, on the longer putts.   I'm leaving them short.   It's good.   The way I struck the ball today, to shoot that round; I'm confident in tomorrow to try to make a few more birdies.   
STEVE TODD:   Louis, thanks for joining us and good luck for the weekend.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT