THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 1, 2013
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What's the health update?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   The leg was the biggest problem not finishing a round of golf walking‑wise, but that seems to be good now.   I mean, I've played a lot of rounds the last two weeks, and it feels good.   The back is still not 100 percent but I can play with it.   That's not an issue that it's painful when I hit the ball.   It's just little bits and niggles.   
Health's not an issue.   Just need to get the game sharp.  
   
 Q.   When did you know you were going to play?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I needed to play Dunhill to see.   My biggest fear was probably the walking.   You know, couldn't walk at The Open with the leg, and you know, I knew it was going back to a links golf courses and especially golf courses like Kingsbarns is a tough walk.   Went through there and didn't feel it at all, so it was good signs and gave Nick the heads‑up that I'm ready.   
   
 Q.   What's The Presidents Cup mean to you?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   It means‑‑ first time I saw it, or first time I watched it was live 2003 at Fancourt, close to where I grew up.   Went out there and watched it, and it was one of my dreams to play on it.   And this is a dream come true for me.   You know, I think it's going to be a great week.   I don't think golf has enough team tournaments.   I think it's great to be with a bunch of guys that are really motivated to get the win.   
   
 Q.   How old were you at Fancourt?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I was 20 back then.   I watched the whole Saturday, and Sunday I watched on telly.   
   
 Q.   Curious, what Ernie went through that night, and everyone talks about you coming through his foundation, wonder if you can just talk about that.   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, I mean, to be on the same team as him is great.   You know, everyone is looking up at him and Adam for this week.   We are looking at three of them and I think Ernie is the one that is probably going to affect all of us the most by giving us good motivational speeches and just getting us fired up.   But as the young side that we are, I think we are all really fired up.  
   
 Q.   You just laughed when you mentioned his motivation‑‑ what did he say last night?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   He just talked about the golf course and how many times he's played here, strategic‑‑ what we should think about.   I won't tell that to you now, but what we need to think about.   Just to go out and always have fun and you know, go for it.   I mean, there's nothing holding us back.   We must definitely try to make this one competitive.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, it's a lot of fun.   Last night was so much fun with the guys, and it's a great team spirit.   I think all of us is having a great time.   You know, I think with seven rookies on the team, the spirits are really high.   
   
 Q.   How helpful is it having so many Southern Africans together?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   It's great.   Me and Branden are both from the Southern Cape in South Africa and grew up in small places, and to play together on a team like this is brilliant for where we grew up in Southern Cape.   I think a bunch of us‑‑ but everyone; the Australians and all the other guys, we are having a good time together, and we had great jokes out on the course today.   It's good fun.   
   
 Q.   Did Ernie talk at all about really kind of needing to win this one?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I think we all know that.   You know, we all sort of came here with knowing that we need this win; we need to make this one very competitive, or to at least be there Sunday when the last few matches come down the stretch.   
But I think the U.S. probably has one of the strongest sides that we've seen, Ryder Cup and Presidents Cup, I feel so, and so it's never going to be an easy task, especially here on their home soil.   It just part of the game and I think it's just going to be a lot of fun.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the haircut‑‑  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   We had haircuts last night, and there was a barber that came out and it didn't work out as well as we thought.   
So we ended up almost, well, shaving everything off, and you know, walking into the team room last night, the two of us, we looked like we came straight out of the Army.   So it was a lot of fun, and this morning, waking up and looking at each other, you know, we just laughed.   
So hopefully that gets the guys spirit up, as well.   There were about six of us that were supposed to get it and they stopped at Charl and so no one is having it.   I didn't expect it to be like that (laughing).   
   
 Q.   Have you ever had your hair cut like that?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I did it actually once before, but it was planned.   That one wasn't planned (laughing).  
   
 Q.   What was the original plan?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I don't know, just a bit longer than this.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I think probably going to take on a few more shots than you would in the stroke‑play event because it's match play, and that's tough.   I mean, you could see they had a bit of rain and the greens are quite soft and spins quite a bit.   But it's still not easy.   You can get a few tough putts out there, and you know, 18 with the new tee is a tough tee shot.   You need to hit a good drive down there to have a good shot in, but, you know, I think hopefully we don't get to 18.   
   
 Q.   There's two months you've had on the sidelines before coming back to the Dunhill; what was the low point, The Open?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, I knew the injury was there, and it was either withdrawing before the event, or going out and at least finish the round.   I hated walking off a golf course.   
You know, when I got to the 6 on one swing, I just felt the pain coming through, and since the sixth hole there, walked funny and swung it horribly.   I hit my tee shot on 9, my caddie said to me, you're going to hurt something more with the swings you're making now.   It's never good walking off.   I don't like it; you upset the guys that you're playing with, because they are playing in a big event, as well.   But I needed to look at the future.   
   
 Q.   What kept you busy in that time off?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Well, a few weeks of rest and then I was in gym trying to get everything sorted, did a lot of work.   It was a great time for me with the family on the farm.   I mean, didn't do any work on the farm or anything.   I was very relaxed this time.   But it was great to see all the friends and family again.   
   
 Q.   The longest you've been on the farm‑‑  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, for sure.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   It was in the middle of eight weeks, I picked up a club and tried to hit a shot and even on the back swing, I could just feel, it's definitely not close to there.   
My physio and everyone just kept me positive, saying it won't‑‑ in a few three, four weeks' time, it's definitely going to feel better, and I was probably the most nervous about 2 1/2 weeks ago when I picked up the clubs properly to go to the course to hit some balls.   Got through nine holes, teed it up and got through 18 holes the next day and my spirits were good.   Talked to Nick and said, listen, I'm hitting, I don't feel the leg; I feel fine, but I'll definitely tell you at the Dunhill.   
   
 Q.   (Where was the first time you played?)  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Mossel Bay Golf Club where I grew up.   I just played with my caddie and a few friends, very easy stuff.   Didn't try to hit off awkward lies, so just play a bit and see what it feels like and felt good.   
   
 Q.   Still have the course record there?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, I still have it.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Felt fine.   I had a horrible start with 4‑over the front nine at Carnoustie, and just didn't feel comfortable playing and golfing‑wise.   You know, then the swing started coming back, started to play a bit better, and, you know, played actually not too bad for what I was expecting.   You know, with the cut being that low for the week, could have probably easily made it if I made a few putts.   But I felt that it was just a week for me to make sure that I'm ready for this one.   
   
 Q.   Coming back now‑‑  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, I spoke to Ernie the other day and said, I don't know how, but you need to find six to eight weeks in your schedule to have proper time off in the game and just to get a bit hungry again to come back and play.   I definitely felt it after five and six weeks, I definitely wanted to come back and play again, and very excited about the rest of the year for me.  
   
 Q.   What was the one thing that you would say Ernie's foundation did for you as a junior?   Place to play?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I mean, obviously funding, going through South Africa, playing in tournaments, and just looking over at him on the main tour, playing under his name and knowing you're representing him.   He would make visits.   He was a great guy to look up to come out and what he was doing in golf and the golfing world, and to play under his name and his clothing to us were like having your hero's shirt on, and it was just good fun.   
   
 Q.   How old were you when you first teed up a ball with him‑‑  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I was 17 years old until I turned pro.   
   
 Q.   Feel strange being a rookie, having been around awhile on TOUR?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, obviously I was very disappointed two years ago not making the side.   I played terrible the last four or five months, and then after the team was selected, I started playing well.   So it was sad not to play, but it just gave me more and more reason to play well to make it this time, and like I said, there's not enough team golf events, and that's great to be part of this.   
   
 Q.   Hard to get a word in edge‑wise with Matsuyama in there?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, we talk to him now and then, but obviously it's difficult to sit down and have a good chat with him, but he looks like a fun guy.   He laughs all the time.   We'll see if we can get a bit more out of him these next few nights.  
   
 Q.   How much do you think he understands?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Well, he's got an interpreter with him, so I think he understands a bit.   Last night's meeting, his interpreter didn't talk too much to him, so I think he understood most of it.  
   
 Q.   Just as a small detail, what kind of wine are you guys drinking?   Is it Ernie's?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   In there?   
   
 Q.   In your team room?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I don't know what wine is in there.   I know the beers there was in there.   
   
 Q.   What beers are you drinking?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   A few, don't worry.   (Laughter) No, there was a few, BudLight and Coronas and stuff.   
   
 Q.   Nothing imported from Africa?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   No, there was nothing imported, no.   
   
 Q.   Have you seen Johann?   Have you had a chat to him?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, he flew over just after us yesterday.   I haven't seen him yet in the hotel.   Probably see him tonight.   But yeah, he's very excited.  
   
 Q.   Nice to have him around?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, I mean, it's great.   He means a lot to us South African golfers, what he does for the Tour and what he does for golf in South Africa, so for him I think it's a nice gesture to be part of the team.   
Most of the guys know him, so everyone knew his character, which is‑‑ he's an unbelievable guy to be around with.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT