ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 25, 2013
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I imagine that it's lovely to be back in action, isn't it?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, it's nice being back on the golf course.   First time in a while that I was itchy to come back.   Normally when you have off time, you want to rest properly, but yeah, it was a long time.   But yeah, looking forward to be back.  
   
 Q.   How are you?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I'm okay.   I'm definitely not a 100 per cent, but I'm definitely in playable mode.   I can play without any pain.   It's still going to take a little bit of time to get everything 100 per cent but I feel good.  
   
 Q.   You'd better talk us through what happened, the therapy and treatment you've had in the meantime?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, I struggled, an old neck injury that I got in 2005, a whiplash injury.   So it came all back beginning of the year, and made me swing quite different.   At the U.S. Open, probably just trying to swing a lot different out of the rough, and I hurt a muscle in my leg, the TFL muscle.   And then just couldn't walk properly.   
You know, I got to the British Open and could play eight holes and then had to withdraw.   It wasn't my type of day walking the golf course, especially a big tournament like the Open, and I knew the future was at stake and Presidents Cup was at stake.   So took some time off to get that right.   
Feels good now but still definitely have some work to do.   I rested for a few weeks and then went to rehab treatments and did some really good work, work that you can't do while you're playing golf tournaments.   So it was a good time to do those things.  
   
 Q.   And of course this is the ideal tournament to come back to where you're not out on the course for ages, beautiful sunny weather?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, being back here brings back memories.   It's not the easiest tournament to come back to.   Hopefully the weather tomorrow is okay.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned The Presidents Cup.   I gather you've all been chatting with all the South Africans in particular, looking forward to this event?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, everyone's looking forward.   Everyone's excited.   Quite a bunch of rookies on our side and think it's going to be a great match.   Although the Americans have really got a strong side, and you know, I think we are by far the underdogs.   But it will be good.   
   
 Q.   And your side does go pretty deep this time around.   You're probably playing with Charl Schwartzel every day?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Hope so.   Me and Charl have a good relationship and we have played World Cup together, so hopefully we'll be partners.   But we'll see what Nick's ideas are for pairings.  
   
 Q.   Is it fun to get back in a team environment?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, I don't think there's enough tournaments that's team, team sports, especially our game, it's great to get that spirit on the team.  
A bunch of us really are trying to get each other pumped up for next week and I think it's going to be interesting having your first one in the States against the Americans.   Crowds will be tough.   But we are used to playing over there every year, so it should be good.   
   
 Q.   They have won seven and you've won one; how do you change that?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   By winning another one; by winning a second one.   It's definitely a big task with the Americans having a really strong side and playing there.   It's going to be‑‑ we have got to play well.   But I think we have got a good team spirit to have a great week.   
   
 Q.   How is Nick Price as a captain?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Brilliant, a lot of fun, but he's also very committed.   He's really putting, not pressure on us; he's really putting some really fire under us to get pumped up for the week.  
   
 Q.   And he can count on you lasting the course?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I'll definitely finish the tournament.   That was one of the big things; I'm playing here this week to assure him that I'm ready to play next week so hopefully I'll go through this week without any ills.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT