JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 10, 2013
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DOUG MILNE:   We'd like to welcome Louis Oosthuizen to the interview room here at the 2013 John Deere Classic.   Thanks for joining us for a few minutes.   Making your second start here at the John Deere Classic, and with that I'll just turn it over to you.   You've had a chance to see the course, so just a few opening comments.  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, the course looks really nice.   You know, it's great being back here.     I loved this spot two years ago.   The game wasn't very good two years ago at the time.   I was going through a bit of a struggle with a few things, but, yeah, it feels a lot better this year.   You know, I've had rough injuries coming in here in the last two weeks, but started hitting the ball really well last week.   Showed really good signs of where I wanted to be, and then, yeah, played really nicely Monday and today, and looking forward to the week.  
   
 Q.   Looking ahead to next week for a moment at Muirfield, what do you expect there and what do you expect from yourself?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, I mean, I just wanted to try and go into The Open with some kind of form.   You know, the year has been very frustrating, not getting going, and whenever I felt I found something that was nice, and to work on that, and some little injury set me back another week or two.   
So yeah, it was a bit frustrating getting going, but played really well last week and feeling strong.   My body's feeling good this week.   Yeah, if I can have a good week, you know, I'm really looking forward to next week.   
   
 Q.   When you were here last time, you said when you went over to tour the plant, your agents had to take your wallet so you didn't buy anything‑‑ did you add any pieces of equipment to your farm?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I'm always looking.   I don't need to be here to look at John Deere products, but yeah, I'm always looking.   Obviously I'm a big fan of their product, and I've got a few of their equipment and tractors on the farm, and you never know, I might ask something more.   Every time I'm here, I see something I like, so it's dangerous.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned yesterday with the hip, the swing isn't an issue but the walking is.   How do you think it will hold up?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I think it's going to be a test today going 18 today and then another four.   I used a cart Monday and that helped.   I don't feel it when I hit.   It's more of a weakness feeling that almost gets a little numb down left side of the leg and that influenced my swing a little bit, but it's not a pain issue.   
I just need to get my head around it that I might have one or two feelings on the golf course.   But I have my trainer here this week, and last week it wasn't a problem.   We worked on it beforehand and afterwards, so I'm thinking it won't be a problem.   
   
 Q.   In terms of what you bring to this golf course, how does it set up for you?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   That's probably the game that I'm struggling the most at the moment is on the greens.   I still feel really comfortable on the greens, but I think it's just an issue of I'm not making any putts than an issue of making strokes, bad strokes.   I'm hitting good putts but just not making them.   
It always gets more frustrating when you have not really been playing and you come out and expect yourself to play a lot better, and just giving yourself some time to adapt to the game and to the greens.  
But like I said, my game feels really good swing‑wise, so my goal is to give myself as many birdie opportunities as I can, many birdie putts, and from there you've just got to hope your speed and line is good for the week.   That's all you can do.   
   
 Q.   From other years here, is the rough thicker and more difficult than you remember?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I can't really remember to a couple years ago, but I think it's very similar to what we play every week.   I don't think it's Merion‑style, I can say that.   But no, I think it's fair.   You know, obviously the golf course will play a lot tougher if you're missing the fairways, but I think it's still pretty fair.   
   
 Q.   Does it take you any time at all to adjust to a links?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I don't think for me it does.   I grew up on some really tough courses and played a lot of golf in Europe.   I don't think it takes that long a time, but it is definitely a different type of golf, and yeah, I always like to play shot‑making golf and different shots, and links golf, that's the way you have to play it.   
   
 Q.   One of the things that people don't really think about‑‑ how their games are, hot and cold, and now that you've been on TOUR, and of course you play internationally, what is it like to be on and off planes, going from to hotel to planes, the hotel to the course; how much difficulty does that add to playing golf?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I think the first year that was more of an issue back in 2003 when I did my first real touring.   At the moment, it's just part of what your weekly process.   
It's just what you do, you get on a plane and go to the next tournament and go to the hotel room.   It's part of what we do.   I don't think to anyone that's an issue anymore.   It's just you have to do it if you want to play professional golf.   
   
 Q.   Is it hard to really focus on where you are‑‑  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   A lot of times.   Well, you wake up in the morning and you're like, which city am I in.   So that happens when you play a really big stretch.   
It can take a lot‑‑ especially if you've been playing really well and you're in contention a lot, that happens, that your mind‑‑ you get to some weeks and you don't really know what's going on around you, and you actually play very well in that week (laughing).   
Yeah, it happens now and then, but I mean, yeah, like I say, to us, it's airplane, hotel, golf course.   That's one sad thing about it; you don't really get to see a lot of the city you're in.   So everyone always asks you, when you play in Paris or France, did you go to the Eiffel Tower, what does it look like; and you're like, well, never been in, just seen it in a picture and never even seen it.   That's the sad bit about it.   
   
 Q.   Some players tell us that they find this to be a really fun golf course.   Do you find this to be a fun golf course?   Are there a couple holes out there that you really particularly enjoy playing?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I think it's always a fun golf course if you're playing well.   I think if you play well, then there's definitely a lot of birdie opportunities.   It's just a nice golf course.   You know that you can attack the greens, so it's not firm.   
Yeah, it's just going to be on making putts.   You can give yourself a lot of birdie opportunities, here, and it is a fun track.   I mean, I really enjoy it.   I loved it two years ago, and it was actually nice playing Monday and today, the two Pro‑Ams, to see a bit more of the golf course.     
             Yeah, there's a few holes where they are just really nice playing holes, straightforward.   Just nice playing holes.  
   
 Q.   Have you looked at the highlight reel?   Specifically, the two bunker shots that Steve Stricker hit two years ago, or the shot that Zach hit last year?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   No.   No, I don't think any of us really look at that.   
DOUG MILNE:   Louis, we appreciate your time as always.   Best of luck this week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT