VOLVO GOLF CHAMPIONS
January 13, 2013
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  PAUL SYMES:   Many congratulations, season couldn't get off to a better start for 2013.
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yes, it's a great start.   Somehow I managed to win the first one of the season. 
So it's a great start.   I knew I had to come out and get my name up there, get the score up there, and after 5‑down, made it up after 12 holes, I was really chuffed about that.   You know, just played really well all day.   Hit great shots and left a little short putt on 16 which was a combination of a little miss‑read and pushed it slightly.   You know, then next thing I saw on 18‑‑ I thought I played really well. 
PAUL SYMES:   And your swing between yesterday and today? 
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   My swing felt horrible yesterday.   Yesterday it felt wrong and I felt like I had no control and I was hitting wayward shots, and today, this morning on the range, I did five, six shots‑‑ swinging through the ball, and the minute I get that feeling, I feel that I can hit really good shots.   I hit it exactly where I wanted to and yeah, just very happy that I can sit here after a bad score yesterday.
PAUL SYMES:   And coming down to the finish with Scott on at, tell us what happened there.
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Everybody said well done, well done and I thought he hit it out‑of‑bounds.   I saw on the tee, well, he's still got to chip.   And when he missed the chip, I think if you give him ten more, he won't.   That was an unbelievable chip, and on the line from the right, he nearly holed it.   He played really well and he's a good player. 
PAUL SYMES:   Up to world No. 4 now. 
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, the top spot is a tough one I think at the moment, but if I can try to make it to No.2, and then I guess I'll try to get to No. 1. 

Q.   It was your third win and three in a row to start the year‑‑
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Well, early, starting in your own country, you feel a bit more relaxed in front of your home crowd and the environment and everything.   The last few years have been really good for South Africa. 

Q.   Inaudible. 
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Well, just to try to find some swing because yesterday it felt very awkward.   Found a bit of rhythm on the range and then gave myself birdie opportunities, and birdied 2 and 3. 
You know, you have to see good shots to really attack and make birdies, but I was a lot more focused, because yesterday I was trying to putt birdies up early and you can easily start off slow and then the leader is just going really well and run away with the tournament, especially starting with a five‑shot lead.   Check.
But I knew I needed to start well to just show that‑‑ Thongchai played really well today.   So it was good fun today. 

Q.   You say you were very focused today, were there any key shots that you thought were the turning point? 
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   No, I never felt it was my tournament, but the birdie on 11, I hit a really good tee shot.   I hit a great 7‑iron and a good putt.   That kept the whole thing‑‑ that put me in the lead by one there. 
And 13, I didn't have the greatest chip shot there and ended up making par and a good par putt on 14.   But with the closing holes, you know, 16, if you hit it in the fairway you can make birdie, but I just pushed an iron and ended up making a bogey. 
And then I saw Scott make bogey, as well.   But I felt you could hit a birdie there, and 17 is a tough hole, and I just hit a wayward second shot there, only had a sand wedge in. 
And 18, you can make a 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 if you pull a driver or something or if you put it out‑of‑bounds left, but also if you hit a good one, you can end up making eagle.   I felt getting into 17‑ or 18‑under, gave myself a good chance.

Q.   What happened on 16?   Was the ball plugged? 
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   On the bunker shot?   No, it was a good lie, hit a good shot and just missed the little putt. 

Q.   Somebody said the ball was plugged?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   No. 

Q.   What will it take to get to Rory?   Do you need to find something extra in your game or is it more consistency?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   You have to ask him almost.   Obviously he's in a great spot and he's swinging it well, and he's far ahead from No.2.   So, you know, even if I or Tiger or Luke, anyone plays really well, you know, Rory is still playing well.   It will be tough to catch him. 
But it's all going to come down to the majors.   If I can try and get a major this year, one, or two even, then the difference will be the majors, because it's got the big points. 

Q.   Coming back to, that what's your plan for Augusta for this year?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   At the moment, I'm playing it the week before and I'm going to go later to the tournament.   But yeah, I'm just going to try and handle it as a normal tournament.   But you know, I never like to have big expectations before the tournament.   I like to start the tournament and then if I feel my game is there and I'm playing really well, then you know, everything starts ‑‑ to get that going and that attitude where I feel I've got a good chance this week. 

Q.   Of the prizes this week, the Excavator and the Volvo champion, which one do you like more‑‑   (laughter.)
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Obviously the win is great to start the year off.   But I'm going to enjoy that Excavator on my farm, I can tell you that. 

Q.   What else do you need on the farm?   You can probably buy it. 
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, I've got a few things that I need to do, and after that, I'll find something to do, don't worry.   I'll find something to play around with.   I think if I buy anything, I'll ask my wife‑‑ (laughter). 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   And then birdieing 10 and 11, it was just a great feeling.   I walked around the whole way and it's always nice to play really well. 
PAUL SYMES:     Thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT