VOLVO GOLF CHAMPIONS
January 11, 2013
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  PAUL SYMES:   Very well played.
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, today was much better‑ball striking.   I hit the ball really well.   Missed a few short ones today, made the right line but I think the speed on the greens, I'm able to make longer putts, and so it's always nice to know the putter is working. 
PAUL SYMES:   And nice one on the last to finish a great day as well.
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Walking down 18, the competition, didn't know what was going on, and then we saw we were tied, and me, Thongchai and Colin had difficult shots.   We needed one of us to make three there, and I ended up making a long one and Colin made another one, as well. 
So, yeah, we finished great, playing with him, and all three of us had a good day. 
PAUL SYMES:   And a big bonus for you, won a car, as well.
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, on the first hole Per told me if I won a car, I would get my Excavator I'm looking for.   So, yeah, I'm walking away with a nice gift for the farm.   That's going to be a lot of fun next week playing around with it.   (Laughter).

Q.   With the chance to tie for the lead‑‑
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I don't think that at that stage I'm thinking about the lead or anything.   I just misread it.   I would never hit it firmer than I did, and I just didn't think it was going to turn that much, but turned quite a lot. 
One of those that sometimes you have those little ones where you just don't see the right line and I think it looksa bit different than I felt it was.

Q.   How distracting was the music across the road? 
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   You can hear itwhen you walk, but once you're on the golf stroke, you don't hear it.

Q.   How different was the conditions on the first nine or ten holes, and how difficult were the conditions to the first nine or ten holes that you played in the rain? 
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, it was the same as the last five holes yesterday, it came down quite hard when we got to the 8th.   It played a bit different.   But played pretty well on those two holes, made two birdies, I think on 8 and 9. 
But we knew it was going to be a day like that with showers and rain.   The last six, seven holes were actually beautiful weather and hopefully we can have that on the weekend. 

Q.   The two holes where you made birdies I think it was raining the hardest.   Do you like playing in these kind of conditions? 
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   No one likes playing in these conditions.   I got lucky on 8.   I hit a terrible second shot.   I thought it was in the bush on the left and it just cleared it.   So I got lucky there, that open line, an easy chip‑and‑putt, and so you know, you get frustrated. 

Q.   Apart from the tractor you bought yourself, what else have you got for the farm?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I've got loads.   I've got a few things, but I've been nagging my wife for a few years that I want something on the farm, I've got a few things that I need to get rid of.   And so actually I had a few discussions this week‑‑ and they said, well, if you make a hole‑in‑one, you can get one. 
Then today on the first, when he told me I could get my Excavator if I win the car; so I knew that standing over the putt on 18.   That's why I probably took a bit more time on that putt to get the right line. 

Q.   What do you know about Scott Jamieson?   Of course he won the Nelson Mandela, but what do you know about his game?   What do you think about his sort of golf at the moment?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   He's playing really well and you can see he's consistent and, yeah, he's going to be a big factor on the weekend.   He shot 64 today, and with this type of golf course, I think if you're hitting it well, there's loads of birdies out there. 

Q.   Did it add pressure playing with Jaidee?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   No, I think it's a great opportunity playing with the leaders.   You know you're right up there, as well.   Thongchai is it a great guy to play with.   I've played loads with him before.   I think both of us played really well. 
He obviously made an eagle on 8, started playing a bit better, and I think the team event yesterdaypushed the three of us.   It was great to have that feeling of a team again.   I think I made a joke on the 9th hole saying today we are friends, tomorrow we are enemies.   Yeah, it was just good fun out there. 

Q.   I think you shot the only bogey‑free round in the tournament so far.   What do you think is more the key to your consistency today? 
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I knew that yesterday we were going to see a few really loose shots out there; first round back of golf after a nice break.   I got my mind different to try to get as many birdie opportunity as I can and try to hit greens, because I know I'm putting well and hitting the putts was fine. 
Today, the goal was the same, hit as many greens as I can.   Yeah, it worked beautifully.   You get to the stage where you shoot 1‑ or 2‑under but today the putts went in. 

Q.   Back home, something like that, an Excavator, you need a special permit, special license, do you need that over here?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   No, I don't go on the road or anything.   No, no, no.   I think if you're a farmer, you can handle anything. 

Q.   Inaudible. 
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   No, I'm just going to play around with it.   Might seed a few bunkers.

Q.   Inaudible.
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I'm going out with the same mind‑set as today, I want to give myself as many birdie opportunities as I can.   That means hitting fairways, greens.   It's that type of golf course where someone can easily shoot 8‑ , 9‑under on a good day, and so you need to be on your game to not try and take too many risk. 
But at the same time, you need to take a few holes‑‑ on a few par 4s today, I felt comfortable with the driver and gave it a good knock.   I just feel that I've got a better opportunity from quite close, and my chipping feels really good. 
So I'm going to get on the tee and it's not going to feel the same, I've got the feeling that my driver is going very well and I'll be in on a few holes. 

Q.   As the highest‑ranked player in the field, could we expect you to really stretch the lead now that you have two rounds of golf this year?   Can we really see you live up to your World Ranking? 
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, it's always difficult before happened to say what my score is playing tomorrow.   One thing I've learned in this game is take one shot at a time.   You know, this is a funny game.   Tomorrow I can feel really awkward over the ball and play completely different. 
But I think the way I'm feeling now, like I say, I'm going to just try and give myself as many birdie opportunities and hopefully the putter behaves and I can then knock in a few putts again. 
PAUL SYMES:   Thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT