VOLVO GOLF CHAMPIONS
January 11, 2013
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You must be thrilled.   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I played really well today.   I felt like I hit the ball really good, and putted beautiful.   Made nice putts and made two great putts on 17 and 18.   I felt really comfortable over the ball, and it's a good sign.   
   
 Q.   Good place to be in at the moment, as well, halfway Mark, you're the leader.   Looks good for the weekend?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, looks good.   There's a lot of golf still left but I think there is a lot of birdies out there on this golf course, and I can expect the guys to shoot some low numbers.   So I need to still play good on the weekend.  
   
 Q.   You seem to have an affinity for the course, though?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, it's a good old track.   It's a classy track and if you get too confident it can bite you really hard.   So you still need to play really sensible.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned your putting.   How key was that and how keen are you to keep it continue like that?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Definitely, I'm reading these greens really well.   Missed a few short ones today, just got the line a bit wrong.   But I feel like the longer putts, I get a really good speed on them and I'm seeing both line and speed really good.   
So, you know, it's got to continue on the weekend to win this event.  
   
 Q.   You seem to have a good time with Colin out there.   What is it like playing with the Amateur here today?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Colin hits is beautiful.   We were like a team.  
Today.   We came down the stretch and we said, right, boys, we need to play a bit better, because the 10th and the 14th, the two par 5s, we scored even par and had a great finish on 16.   They made long putts, and I ended up missing a little one, and then, you know, made a long one on 17 and Colin made one on 18.   So as a team we played really well.  
   
 Q.   Do you think the relaxed environment helped contribute to the score; that maybe your mind was elsewhere and not focused on really producing?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   It did, until we came to the last and we see we are tied and we need a birdie.  
So all of a sudden we were in a different mood.   I walked around to the guys and said, listen, boys, we need one of these two to go in and was fortunate enough to make the long one and then Colin made one, as well.   
   
 Q.   Designs on a digger as opposed to a car?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   The man standing right behind us I'm going to have a good chat to (laughing).  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT