WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 3, 2012
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Your thoughts on today? 
    LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Frustrating.   Early I didn't play really well and then started to find a little bit of form on the back nine, but just didn't make any putts. 
    You know, knowing all the birdies that was out there, you look at the leaderboard, but I'm still in a good position for going into tomorrow. 

Q.   What was it that made the difference?
    LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, I've just been missing the fairways a little bit.   Still gave myself birdie opportunities, just normal ones and the ones I hit really close I just didn't make. 
    So the putter went cold on me today, but I still hit good putts which is very frustrating.

Q.   You've been talking about those par 5s over the last two days, it was awesome stuff and come the third today, didn't quite work out?
    LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, 3‑under on the five today but third on the 9th hole, I missed two 6‑footers for birdie and one of them, I didn't hit a good putt and the other one I hit a good putt, just misread it.   It's been frustrating, but especially seeing all the low ones out there.   You know, I can try and shoot that low one tomorrow.

Q.   We mentioned those low ones, Snedeker with a 60 and Lee Westwood with a 61; it's incredible golf, isn't it?
    LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, I think I have the course record on Thursday set and I set it again yesterday and now it's gone.   59 will have to work to get it back.

Q.   Any element of surprise in the scoring or do you fancy that that kind of score is out there?
    LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   To have two scores, 61, 60, that's impressive.   9‑under is a good score, I see there's a 9‑under, as well.   To have a 61 and 60, I think everyone now tomorrow is going to go at a few pins because they can see themselves also shooting low numbers.

Q.   It will be a nice tussle, knowing all these players around you?
    LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   It's going to be tough.   Playing with Phil and Lee, and it's not just the two of them, but it will be a great challenge. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT