WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 1, 2012
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  LAURA HILL: We'd like to welcome Louis Oosthuizen to the interview room, a nice bogey‑free 65 today and birdie on the last to finish it off and take a share of the first round lead.   Maybe just talk us through today, what was going right for you out there and how you found the course.  
    LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, I don't think I saw a really low number out there but once you look at the leaderboard and see the guys are firing it up, all of a sudden you started seeing birdies.   
    But yeah, I played well.   I made five birdies on the par 5s, and you know, that got the round going, and then I made two more birdies.   I hit a few bad iron shots, but made good up‑and‑downs for pars and just glad to have a bogey‑free round, I'm always happy with that.   
   
 Q.   You made five birdies on the par 5s, does it mean that the golf course suits your kind of golf shots?   
    LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   No, I think the five par 5s goes all on your tee shot.   I hit four good tee shots on four of them, and then on the 9th there, I miss‑hit it completely, went into the fairway bunker, and you know, hit a very good second shot to give me a chance to have a 9‑iron into the green and made a 10‑footer for birdie.   
    I think, you know, by having five par 5s, I think the guys that's going to hit it well off the tee is going to have a good chance at reaching the green in two and taking advantage of having five par 5s.   
   
 Q.   You've been spending a lot of time in China recently; is that right?   
    LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Do you think it's kind of relaxed, part‑business, part family traveling?   
    LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, well, it's a tough travel to get here but I mean, I knew the hotel was going to be good and you know, if I don't do, that I'm probably not going to see them for a while.   So decided to travel with the kids and the family and you know, they were up for it.   I think they are having a good time.   
   
 Q.   Does your family have any problems with the Chinese food here?   
    LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   No, I mean, most of the hotels have western food, as well.   But normally we try something different.   With the little ones, we try and stick to food they know.   
   
 Q.   How do you think about the atmosphere here in China and the golf fans?   
    LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   The golf has grown quite a lot over here, and it's good to see more and more guys coming every year to play here.   I think this is a tough golf course to walk for spectators, so you're probably not going to see as many as you want to, but it's still nice to see some out there.   
    Yeah, it's just great seeing the game growing that much over here.   
   
 Q.   What do you have to do in the next three days, what are the key things that you have to do right to win this tournament?  
    LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, at the moment, winning is not even in anyone's sight.   There's three rounds left and a lot of golf to be played.   The main key is to try to put myself in a spot to win it on Sunday.   But yeah, if I can keep doing what I'm doing on the par 5s, you know, hitting fairways and leaving myself with the irons or a 5‑wood or something, you've got a good chance.   But yeah, you know, you need to make putts.   I've made a few nice putts today and that's normally the thing what I struggle with; I hit good putts, but I just don't make them.   I've made a few today, which is nice.   
    LAURA HILL:   Thank you and good luck this week.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT