DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 1, 2012
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DOUG MILNE:   We'd like to welcome Louis Oosthuizen into the interview room.   You backed up a 66 yesterday with a 6‑under 65 today in round 2 of the Deutsche Bank Championship.   Just some comments on the round and then we'll take some questions.   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, played really well.   I hit the ball nicely.   Hit a few loose drives out there but gave myself a lot of birdie opportunities.   It got a bit difficult, I think, during the last few holes there.   The greens were firming up quite a bit.   But yeah, it was‑‑ all in all, I'm quite happy.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the eagle on 4, the chip‑in?   Was that what you were trying to do, exactly what you pulled off there?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Well, I was trying to get it close from the lie.   I pulled a really good lie.   I opened it up and just had to commit to the shot.   You know, it was exactly where I felt I needed to land it to get it close, and just was lucky that I got it in.  
   
 Q.   How surprised were you when it went in?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I don't think I was surprised because I hit it perfect the way I wanted to, but it's always nice when those shots work out exactly the way you planned it.   
   
 Q.   Is it weird going into Sunday and the tournament is only half over?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, I'm completely confused.   Coming to the course on Saturday, it's like, I made the cut, well done.   Yeah, it throws everything off.   
But yeah, it's nice, it's something different, and it's good.   
   
 Q.   How do you play the 18th?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   How did I play it?   
   
 Q.   How do you play it?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I'm still trying to figure out how to get a birdie on that hole.   Yeah, obviously try and get it as far down there as possible to give myself a shot.   Yesterday I hit 5‑iron in, slightly pulled it, and it ended up right under the tower, which hit a pretty good shot just to get it to the middle of the green.   Today I missed my tee shot and got lucky just to fly the trap in the middle, and laid up, hit it to 10 feet, I think, and just misread the putt.  
But yeah, it's a tough hole.   It's a risk and reward on the second shot.   You know, Webb yesterday hit a great 5‑iron, pitched just on the green, and he nearly didn't hold it on the green.   I think you're very lucky if you keep your second shot on that green.   You know, it might not be a bad thing just laying it up and giving yourself a sand wedge or a little wedge into any pin.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about playing with Rory tomorrow?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I mean, we're good friends.   I think it's going to be very nice.   Yeah, it should be good.   Obviously he's playing really well, and it's always nice playing with him.   He's got such a good swing.   He goes for a lot of shots, he makes a lot of birdies, so it's always fun to watch.   
   
 Q.   In that regard, too, winning the PGA by eight and the U.S. Open by eight got a lot of attention.   You won the Open by seven.   Do you think there's something a little extra special about a major champion when he wins by such a significant margin?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Well, yeah.   I mean, especially Rory doing it twice.   You know, it's one of those things, if it's your week and you're playing really well, you just keep on going.   I won a tournament in South Africa once by 14 on the Sunshine Tour because it's just one of those weeks where you just keep on going.   
You know, it just shows you how good a golfer Rory is doing it twice.   There's definitely quite a few more majors left in him.  
   
 Q.   Who finished second in that Sunshine Tour event?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I don't know (laughing).   
   
 Q.   The description of 18 with the risk and reward, could the same be said for 2?   Can you talk about the second shot, whether to go for it or lay up?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, I was in the middle of the fairway today on 2.   If there was no wind, it was a good 3‑iron for me.   But at that stage the wind was blowing quite a bit into it us, and I felt I needed to hit such a good 5‑wood to get it on the green and just to keep it on there, so I decided laying up and hit a great little sand wedge to four‑foot and misread the green completely.   Sometimes it works.   
But again, if you lay it up, you take the risk completely out of play there.   You're walking off with 5.   It's difficult.   Yesterday I hit 4‑iron in there and I went for it.   Whenever I have an iron into a par‑5, it's going to be very difficult to lay up.   I just felt today the shots weren't on.  
   
 Q.   Did you at least birdie 7 today?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   No, I didn't.   I hit it perfect position just short of the green, five yards short of the green, was lying uphill, so it was perfect to just pop it up and release it to the hole, but just got the little low chip, and it released to eight, nine foot and probably hit the worst putt of the day.  
   
 Q.   I asked that because when people talk about whether this course favors the longer hitters, they generally talk about the advantage you have with the 5s.   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, I'm always‑‑ I think anyone is really upset when they don't score on the par‑5s.   But I hit the ball really well.   I made four 2s today, which that doesn't really happen a lot, and my iron play was really good.   So I'm taking a lot out of this round.   
   
 Q.   Can I get details on those 2s, what clubs you hit?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   11 was a 4‑iron to four‑foot, I think.   
16 was a little 7‑iron to I think about 12‑foot on the top tier, made that.  
I hit a 7‑iron on No.3 to a foot and a half.  
And then holed out on the next, on 4, with a chip.  
   
 Q.   What did you do on 8?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   8 I hit 5‑iron to just on the green, and it was a long 50‑footer, probably two‑putted.   It was a two‑putt, yeah.  
   
 Q.   What was it like for you to see Ernie win the British Open?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, it was‑‑ I mean, it was great watching him.   I couldn't see it.   I was on my way‑‑ I was driving at the time.   I think no one really expected it to happen because I would have waited if I had known he was winning it.   
You know, it's great seeing Ernie winning that tournament.   It just shows you hard work, he never gives up, he practices hard, he works so hard at West Palm Beach on his game when he's there.   It was great seeing him.   He's done everything probably that you can do, and he's still going out there trying to win majors, and it shows‑‑ it tells you a lot about the guy.   
It was sad to see Scottie finish that way, but yeah, it just shows you, that golf course, having 80 bunkers on the last four holes, I found a few of them that week, so it was just a tough course to finish on.  
   
 Q.   Is it possible, I know that you all think about winning when you get on this level, but when is the last time you thought about the money involved with a win?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I think‑‑ well, the Playoffs, everyone is probably thinking about that.   But yeah, that's probably only going to be Saturday night in the last week if you've really got a good chance, that's going to be in your mind.   But at the moment, I'm just trying to get the game right to try for a win this week and then try the next one again next week.   
   
 Q.   What kind of tractor can you buy for $10 million?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I think the question is how many could you buy (laughing).   
DOUG MILNE:   Louis, great playing today, and we appreciate your time.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT