ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 14, 2012
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I think we've definitely got the better of the weather.   It was a bit chilly to start with, and then it was hot, and then cold, hot and then cold again.   Luckily the rain stayed away.   But yeah, left loads out there.   I played really well.   Probably my only bad shot was on the second on 18, but got very lucky that it caught the edge of the bunker.     
A good opportunity on 16, 17 for birdies and loads on the front that I missed.   So I knew I had to shoot a really low number to be within five or six shots of the leaders.   I think 11‑under is going to be just too far back.   
   
 Q.   Has it been a nice progression across the week, building day‑to‑day?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, I take a lot out of today.   Tomorrow if I can shoot a low one, it will be a nice way to go into next week.   I think probably need 64 or something tomorrow to have a very good week or a decent week.   But you know, just I'm playing better every day and that's always a good sign for next week.  
   
 Q.   Where is the balance, we keep saying next week, but are you thinking very much of the performance here, confidence for next week, or manufacturing the game and making it right for Lytham?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Get the confidence going for next week and work on a few things if you need to, especially around the greens.   But I mean, once you're in the tournament, you don't really think of next week.   You want to play a good round today to try and get up there on the leaderboard for this week.   
   
 Q.   Certainly this links is a different beast to next week, but it's good preparation?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   It's good preparation.   I think it's a bit easier than next week.   I played Lytham last Saturday, and, yeah, it's a tough golf course, off the tee especially, but the weather has been so kind this week.   I think if we probably get the same weather next week, scoring will be low, as well.  
   
 Q.   What makes Lytham so tough in the sense of what you've seen already?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   There's a lot of bunkers off the tees.   I think you've got to be spot on off the tees and your tee shots, so you can either lay it far back and leave yourself long clubs in, or if you take out the driver, you need to be spot on.  
   
 Q.   How are the tee shots at the moment?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   It's good.   I'm happy with the way I'm hitting it off the tee at the moment.   Still a bit of work here and there but I'm feeling good for next week.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT