ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 10, 2012
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MICHAEL GIBBONS:   Welcome to the Aberdeen Asset Management Scottish Open, thank you for joining us on this fine British summer's day.   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Brilliant.   
MICHAEL GIBBONS:   Not seen you for a while.   How are you doing?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, I'm doing good, thanks.   It's nice being back here, albeit a bit rainy.   I can't remember the last time I wore a full rain suit like this, but it's good.   The course looks good.   I haven't seen any part of it really but from what I've seen from the air coming in and I think it gets everyone pretty excited about next week, which is good.   The guys will really take the opportunity to go out this week and have a good practise for next week, but also, you know, it's a good event this week.   Strong field.   
MICHAEL GIBBONS:   How is your own game?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, I've been up‑and‑down the last 2 1/2 months really, after Malaysia.   Not really playing very well and just been working on a few things again.   Yeah, it's slowly getting there.   
Worked with Pete on Saturday and found something and I've started hitting it nicely.   I need to play well this week to just get confidence a bit up for next week.   
   
 Q.   I guess it's an obvious question when you come back here, but do you get a special feeling when you come back to Scotland?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, it's a great place for me to come.   The Dunhill Links last year was very special.   Unfortunately I had the injury two years ago when I couldn't play the Dunhill directly after winning The Open there.   But I think Scotland for golf is a great place.   It's a special place to be and you know, when you walk on these links golf courses, it's just something really special.   It's nice to be on a golf course that's a bit different, a lot of shot‑making and just the way it was supposed to be from the start.   
   
 Q.   How does Castle Stuart compare to other links courses?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I didn't play last year.   From what I've heard, it's a great track.   So you know, if the weather stays this way, which I think it is, it will be difficult.   But links golf should be harsh weather.   It should be rainy.   It should be windy.   Otherwise, you know, it's not the way it should be.   
   
 Q.   Knowing as you do what it takes to win an Open Championship, can you elaborate on what you have to achieve this week to putt yourself in the right place to be able to contend at Lytham next week?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I think just shooting good rounds really.   You know, just trying to get your game in a solid, solid position for next week.   You know, The Open, any major, anything can happen on the week.   If you find something on the range on the Tuesday before the tournament, then you're a completely different golfer out there.   
But I think confidence‑wise, I think it's great the week before knowing you've played well, even if you didn't finish well, you can finish down 40th, 50th.   But if you felt like you've been working object something for a while and getting it right that week, then, you know, you take a lot of confidence out it for the next week.   You know, I'm trying to get a few things right in my swing, which you know, this week is a big week for me just to get the confidence a little up there.   
Looking forward to next week.   I've played that course.   I played Lytham on Saturday and that course looks really good.   There wasn't a breath of wind or rain on that links.   I know it's not going to be that way probably but a great course, and you definitely need to be very good off the tee.   
   
 Q.   What did you take out of Augusta this year?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, I'll take a lot out of it.   I didn't throw it away and I didn't really do anything that I felt really bad afterwards.   You know, obviously you're very disappointed not to get the win.   
Coming that close to such a big event, you are always going to wonder afterwards where you could have saved a shot.   But yeah, I've taken quite a bit out of it.   Just especially playing Augusta every year, that's always nice when you have one or two good tournaments there for the future.   My record there the years before weren't very good.   I struggled on the greens, and I mean this, year, just have been playing a bit more over there and getting used to the faster greens and it helped a lot, especially getting to Augusta.   
MICHAEL GIBBONS:   Louis, thanks for joining us.   Good luck this week.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT