MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 6, 2012
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   It was a tale of two different nines out there for you today. 
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, I played two different golf courses.   Yeah, it was hard.   It was a tough golf course this morning.   It was cold.   The ball didn't go anywhere.   The wind was all over the place.   You know, and I hit a few bad shots.   You had to be so spot‑on this morning to get it close to the pin or even on the green. 
You know, after my fifth hole I knew I just needed to hang in there.   I knew it was going to be a tough day on me, and even if I just finished level par for the tournament or something, somewhere, 1‑under or something, I would have been happy with the way I started.
But once the sun came out, it was completely different.   I felt the swing was a bit more loose, and I hit some good shots coming in. 

Q.   What does a recovery like that do for you?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Well, it's always better finishing that way than swapping the two nines around.   But yeah, it helps a lot.   I knew‑‑ I was patient all day.   I knew that somewhere I'm going to have it turn by just making one good putt or something and just keep on plotting.

Q.   Do you think it got more comfortable because of the weather change?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   It was really tough this morning, and it was cold.   Once we went down 10 and got to 11, it was much better.   We took sweaters off and stuff, and it just felt better.   But this morning was tough.   I hit a few shots there where 8‑irons and 7‑irons went 15, 20 yards shorter than what I expect them to do.   So getting the wind, as well, this morning, it just changed the golf course completely. 

Q.   Any plugs going on or any spots on the course you were concerned about because there was way too much mud on the ball?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Today was actually good.   I felt today was better than yesterday.   I had one little mud ball on 13, but I was glad to just make my decision to lay up much easier.   So yeah, other than that, it was fine. 

Q.   You started the day 4‑under.   How do you feel about still being 4‑under halfway?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   After five holes I feel a lot better.   I thought it was going to be a really tough day because the course, the weather looked like it was going to stay like that the whole day.   But yeah, just hung in there and made a few nice birdies coming in.

Q.   What does it mean to be able to go out and find yourself in trouble on this golf course and be able to turn things around?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, for confidence wise going into the weekend, it means a lot, and just giving myself a good opportunity, not giving myself too much work on the weekend.   But yeah, it's great going into the weekend‑‑ even if by the end of today I'm three, four behind, it's a great opportunity and a great spot to be in. 

Q.   I know you don't want to get ahead of yourself, but do you have a plan going into the weekend?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Well, I think everyone close to the lead, they do.   But it's a long way to go.   You don't want to get ahead of yourself, but I'll probably just keep plotting along and try and keep myself in position on the back nine on Sunday. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT