MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 5, 2012
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Nice round of golf.   Talk about your round.   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, it was a little bit bumpy in the beginning.   I made a huge save on 5 for par and hit it pretty well from there on.   I knew there were going to be bogeys out there.   The course is playing really tough, tough pins for a first round I felt.   But yeah, I played nicely and had a good finish.   
   
 Q.   What's it like to see your name on the leaderboard at Augusta National?   You haven't been there before.   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, it's always nice seeing your name on any leaderboard, but it makes it a little bit sweeter over here.   
   
 Q.   I think you said you found something in your game.   Is that when things started to click for you a little bit?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, just to get my irons a bit better.   I felt like I drove it well there, but just struggled with the irons and found something in the swing and took it from there and worked on it, and it feels really good now.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, you know, I feel confident probably the whole week.   Once you feel like you're swinging it well and you're excited and playing‑‑ but the greens are always tough here.   The whole week is going to go on putting, and we know it's going to be a bit‑‑ it's going to get firmer and quicker over the weekend, and then it gets really tough.   
But patience is probably the big word out here.   
   
 Q.   Given the toughness of the pin placements, how good is 4‑under today?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Well, I felt it was pretty good.   Yeah, the pins were tough, but you know, I think‑‑ yeah, it was just tough.   It was difficult seeing them for the first round.   But there was still a lot of birdies out there but also quite a few bogeys.   You needed‑‑ the second shots are so important into these greens.  
   
 Q.   Charl said the other day the biggest change for him is that he expects to play well in the majors.   Would you agree with that?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, you know that‑‑ the big thing is you know you can win a major, and it's working on getting the game right for that week.   I couldn't do it on one of the occasions last year, which was just very disappointing, and this year it's nice finding a bit of rhythm at Tampa, and played well last week, and I just felt good coming into this week.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   You know, it's difficult putting a number on what you're going to play, but you try your best every day to shoot the lowest score.   But I felt anything around 70, 71 I'll be very happy.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel you can win here?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Oh, definitely.   I think every tournament you try and win, and I feel pretty confident that I'm going to‑‑ should have a good week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT