SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
March 30, 2012
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DOUG MILNE:   Louis, thanks for joining us for a few minutes.   Very successful second round, 6-under 66 today.   Lot of golf here and there over the past couple of days.   Just some comments on your first two rounds and finding yourself at the top of the leaderboard at 11-under as you head into the weekend.
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, it's a good spot to be in going into the weekend.   I don't know if it will be leading, probably be close.   But yeah, I played nicely.   I hit my irons very well today, which was both rounds.   Struggled a little bit off the tee.   Now and then working on something.   So, you know, hopefully I've got it spot on next week.   But yeah, I'm happy.   Putting well, giving myself the opportunities, which is good.
DOUG MILNE:   Okay.   With that we'll open it up and take a few questions.

Q.   Are you working on the tee shots with Augusta in mind?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   No.   Just few changes in the swing, just little bit.   It's more feel.   Uncomfortable on a few shots.   So, yeah, I got a few tee shots got to work harder, and it's just -- you know, it's just tough, tough on a few holes. 
But, yeah, you know, I'm getting there.   I feel like I hit it really well today, one bad tee shot, but I'm close.   So, yeah, hopefully got it spot on next week.

Q.   Are you trying to make some changes that are sort of designed to get you back to when you were hitting the ball so well in '10 or some -- are you kind of evolving into a --
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   You're always trying to get better and -- swing-wise.   You know, I hit it well at the Open in 2010, and I feel like I'm very close to hitting it like I did there.   You know, swing-wise, I feel confident.   It's just I've been trying a few different new drivers and actually back to the driver that I hit in 2010. 
So, yeah, you know, you always trying a few different things, but, yeah.

Q.   I know you don't win a golf tournament on Friday.   What does it mean to you to be in a position right now going into round three?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   It's a good opportunity to, you know, to get up there and try and have a shot at the last nine on Sunday.   You know, I'm not sure what the weather is going to be on the weekend.   Hopefully we get four rounds in. 
Yeah, it's a good opportunity, and the way I'm hitting it, I feel confident.

Q.   You played 15 events in America on the PGA TOUR.   Is that the plan moving forward?   Are you going to play more PGA TOUR events?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I'll still do both, European Tour and U.S. Tour.   I struggled last year schedule-wise because it was the first time trying it and it's a lot of flying, but I think got the schedule down this year, and, you know, we'll be doing both again.

Q.   Do you have any idea how many miles you put on last year?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I have no idea, but it was a lot.

Q.   What is the biggest thing you learned from that in terms of how to manage your scheduling or manage the wear and tear?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I played so long in Europe, seven years, and know exactly which tournament you play every year.   All of a sudden, you've got two tours and we try and support Sunshine Tour back in South Africa, as well.   It's difficult.   We try to.   It makes the schedule tough you.   You know, December is when most guys rest.   We try and play a few events in South Africa, and then the first week in January, we play in Africa Open.   So it makes your schedule rough, but, you know, it's what we do, we should get it right by now.

Q.   You said you went back to the driver from 2010.   What model is that?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   It's the Rapture V2.   I just went back to the same shaft.   And, you know, my swing has changed a bit from the last two years, so that's why I'm struggling a little bit with that shaft.   But when I get it right, I get it really good.   Luckily the last two rounds now was a lot more good drives than bad ones.   Yeah, it's very close to just get the feel of it and it will be good then.

Q.   This morning Phil said that anytime you're on the greens, it's like you feel like it should go in from wherever you putt.   Was that the case this afternoon still?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, for sure.   The greens were perfect.   I just couldn't get it to the hole.   I struggled with the speed.   It was a little slower than, you know, it was on Tuesday and Wednesday but, you know, there's no excuse.   It was running perfect.   I just couldn't get it to the hole and it was frustrating on a few putts.

Q.   How comfortable do you feel being on this golf course, seeing that most of the tee shots kind of suit a right to left kind of shape?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah.   I try and work the ball the other way off the tee, left to right.   But, you know, if you hit it well, it doesn't really matter.   If you feel like you're hitting your driver well, doesn't matter.   But, you know, driver, I always try to work it the other way, and then when I got a 3-wood in my hand, I try to work it right to left. 
On a few holes, you know, you can hit 3-wood, I do it, but I was playing really a bit longer today, because you didn't get any run on the ball.   So you had to take driver on most of the holes.

Q.   Do you feel more comfortable in Houston than, say, some other PGA TOUR events or kind of just another week?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I think you try and feel like it's just another week.   I just think I'm getting to the point where my game is getting better, and, you know, I played it nicely from Friday to Sunday at Tampa and found a few things in my game, and it's just nice getting the feel again.

Q.   How many holes did you get in today?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Thirty-two and a half.

Q.   It can cut either way.   Do you feel like the way were you hitting, it was good to just keep playing?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   It was great.   If you play well, to keep the momentum going is great.   Just grab lunch and go on.   I would have loved to tee off my third round now (laughter). 
Yeah, it's always good when you have that momentum, and, you know, but when tomorrow comes, you'll be fine.   You'll be well rested and just focus on the next round.
DOUG MILNE:   Okay.   We know you're anxious to get out and get some dinner.   Thanks for your time, and keep it up. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT