VOLVO GOLF CHAMPIONS
January 19, 2012
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How does it feel to be so close to home?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Doesn't really feel like I'm playing in a tournament staying at home.   Yeah, it's great playing here.   I played the SA Open here and watched The Presidents Cup before that.   It's nice to be playing where you grew up.   
   
 Q.   Fancourt must have a special place in your memory, as well, given your background?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, you know, we used to play here as juniors quite a bit, and obviously whenever I had a chance, I tried to play here.   It's a great track.   The track is looking really good.   Greens are nice.   You can attack it a little bit.   But yeah, it's still a proper golf course and you need to hit it straight.   
   
 Q.   I'm sure you've been asked this 100,000 times, but since becoming The Open Champion, have you sensed a change, obviously some changes that happen overnight, but have you changed as a person or a player do you think?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I hope I didn't change as a person.   But I think, yeah, as a player, you definitely get a lot more confidence after winning a major and you expect a lot more of yourself.   Sometimes it's just trying to live up to your own expectations.  
   
 Q.   What are those expectations as you look forward to 2012?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Definitely winning more majors.   Yeah, it's getting the game right for major tournaments and obviously this is a big one, because it's right here at home and it would be nice lifting this trophy.  
   
 Q.   You had a little bit of a chance to take a break; what do you do to get away from golf?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Not much.   I'm just on the farm visiting friends and doing a bit of work there.   Yeah, it's just nice being at home.   I think you get proper time off when you're in South Africa with friends and family.  
   
 Q.   What sort of work do you do on the farm?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Well, it depends what's broken (laughing).   
   
 Q.   Seeing your lovely wife here, it's patently obvious to us all that you are expecting your second child; so 2012 holds a lot of riches off the golf course?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, she's due next week.   She walked today.   I thought she was crazy walking.   She said she wanted to get out of the house a bit but she's looking good.   Hopefully it happens next week.  
   
 Q.   What is it about this crop of South African golfers and the programmes here in South Africa that breed these wonderful golfers?   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I think we have got great juniors coming through and great foundations, and even amateur golf.   You always have a few South Africans coming through and it's great to see.   I think the weather is so good down here, it's a game that you can play 365 days of the year.   It's nice.   
   
 Q.   Your personal plans and goals for the year ahead?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I'm starting at the Match Play after this in America, a nice break, and then going to be spending a bit of time in America.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT