DUBAI WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY DP WORLD
December 10, 2011
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Played nicely.   Made nice putts.   Made a good eagle on 7 to get me going.   It's all to play for tomorrow, depends on how well Alvaro plays.   But you know, hopefully I can give myself a lot of birdie opportunities tomorrow again.   
   
 Q.   At that stage at the 7th, you must have thought, yeah, I've got a chance if I improve on this, and you did on that back nine.   
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, it felt like I started well again, birdie on 1.   I failed a bit on the back nine, 13 and 14‑‑ or 14 and 15, which was right next to the green for two, and then failed to make birdies there but had a bonus birdie on 16 and that's always nice.  
   
 Q.   Sounds like some frustrations in there as well, despite the fact of where you find yourself on that board?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   No, it's just you knew that you had to shoot a low one to be very close to Alvaro.   There's a lot of holes left tomorrow.   All going to be on him.   He's going to have some pressure, if he goes in with a four‑ or five‑shot lead, and I think everyone behind is going to probably aim a bit more to the pin, and if we get a few birdies in there, should be a good last round.   
   
 Q.   Clearly we have seen rounds of 64 here.   By and large, they are tending to be that little bit earlier in the day I guess; the wind becomes tricky, doesn't it?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, I enjoy the wind.   I like working a bit of shots out.   And I enjoyed it out there.   I prefer actually teeing off a bit later‑‑ well, I think everyone prefers teeing off a bit later.   
But for the wind, I think around these greens, it's nice to work your way a bit in there.   
   
 Q.   I think we have had this conversation the last three years at least when you seemed to enjoy playing the desert courses, something about home about them?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, I enjoy it over here.   A bit of a shame I can't play any of the three next year.   My wife is due with a new little baby and want to spend a bit of time with them but hopefully in 2013 I can come out to play in those events again.   
   
 Q.   So leave the Middle East on a high note?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I'm going to try.   I feel like I played really well the last two months, and a bit disappointed not to have a victory in those events.   But you know, there's still tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT