WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 5, 2011
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. A good one still?   
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, felt good. Didn't make as many as yesterday. I felt like I hit a few good putts out there, but just, you know, I didn't make any. Didn't really give myself that many opportunities, but felt like I definitely left a few out there. Keeping bogeys off the card, which always helps.   
  
  Q. Don't know if frustration was the word but you must have been aware of what your playing partner was doing?  
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, if you're playing with the leader and he's playing that well, there's not much you can do. I just don't want to give shots away to fall behind. I wanted to just make pars and you know, if the odd birdie comes along -- tomorrow it might be probably a bit more towards the pins, the last nine, but you know, we'll see where we are going into the last round.   
  
  Q. Must have been a joy to make something down the last, as well?  
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I mean, that was -- I thought that I had a good tick and I thought it was going to bump up there pretty close, and just didn't have that great a lie on the putt. Jumped on me and made that 3-footer for the birdie.  
  
  Q. Do you feel that hunger that you've been competitive, because you have not been for a little while?  
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I'm playing well. I'm hitting good putts, hitting the ball well. So you know, I feel very confident about tomorrow. Just going to try and -- if you start well, you can put pressure on Fred die. That could be a good day.   
  
  Q. I guess it's a different sense of excitement, adrenaline, when you're right at the top as opposed to middle of the field?  
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, tomorrow everyone is going to be pumped up because it's a great leaderboard going into the final round. I think everyone wants that title so you are going to see some good golf going into tomorrow.  
  
  Q. How was Adam out there today after what happened last night?   
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: He was fine. We had a good chats. He was up-and-down with the golf. Finished amazingly. But yeah, I mean, the rest, I don't think I have any comment.   
  
  Q. Steve Williams just went about his job I take it?   
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, he was just doing his job. On the course he does a good job.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT