MASTERS TOURNAMENT
November 14, 2020
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How would you describe the morning? 
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: It was chilly. It was definitely chilly going out. Yeah, I mean, look, the speed of the greens is definitely getting a lot quicker than what we've played it this week. I had a few putts there that were sort of back to old lines and old speed. They're very soft still so you can still attack it, but they were perfect this morning. I don't really‑‑ I made a rookie mistake on 14 by going a little bit too aggressive at that pin and I didn't hit it good and ended up making a double. Definitely left two shots out there at least, but still in a good position, three behind going into the‑‑ 36 holes to go, feeling good. 

Q. Did you ever think about pitching it on 14? 
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: No, because there's a little bit more grain and the grass is different, I wasn't really comfortable chipping it. I just wanted to hit the putt 15 feet past, and I just absolutely got the speed wrong. I hit a good second putt, and then that little putt I had for bogey just showed me that the greens are definitely getting their speed back because we were about a ball out in line just because the speed is that much quicker. It should be good this afternoon. 

Q. Do you feel like you'll still be as aggressive as you have the first couple days? 
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I do think so, but I think it was no problem having here or there a downhill putt. The first two rounds you still feel like you can put a little bit of speed on them and make it, but I think you've got to be careful with that going into this afternoon and definitely tomorrow that it's going to get speedy on you, so probably play it a little bit more sensible. But I do think you can still attack, yes. 

Q. How will you reset now for the afternoon? 
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I'll go and have a nice breakfast. Go and have a nice breakfast and then do normal routine. Probably a little stretching before warming up and then go out, yeah. 

Q. With the silence out there, is it easier to focus or is it easier to notice the distractions? 
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, it's almost more difficult because there's a lot more movement going on with single people walking around, and when there was 30,000, 40,000 people, you're fine just going. But yeah, you miss the sound, you miss the cheer, the roar, and if you hit a great shot, you miss all that. It's almost a little bit more difficult to really get yourself bumped up. 

Q. Bryson had an adventurous two days. How would you describe it? 
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I could see he was off. I could see he wasn't on his game, and you get those things. You get those days. The few shots, the few drives that he really hit well was impressive, but I could see he was just struggling with getting the shots the way he wanted to. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT