WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 4, 2011
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I don't think I missed a green today. I hit the ball really well. Made 20-footers go in for a change.   
 It was nice. It was a good, solid day.  
  
  Q. When was the last time you shot a 63?   
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I don't think I've ever shot a 63. I think I've shot 62 once in a tournament round, but you know, probably at my local course back in South Africa I shot 63 last.   
  
  Q. Which makes it that this is all the more satisfying and pleasing, isn't it, therefore.   
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I like the golf course. I feel like if you're playing, hitting good shots, you get rewarded. There's a few holes where you can take it on or lay it up. You know, today, I didn't really take much risk. I just made the birdie putts.   
  
  Q. Has it been coming?   
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, well, it felt -- last week I played really well. Just had a shocking weekend. I struggled badly on the greens. But you know, these greens, I'm comfortable on them. They feel a bit quicker than they were last week.   
 So, it was good.   
  
  Q. So reading between the lines, it must be the putter that's doing its magic tricks?  
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, it's been coming a while. Struggling with it. Just found something where I feel comfortable.  
  
  Q. Have you mixed and matched and settled on one?  
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I've tried everything, heard everything, and sometimes it's good sticking with one thing, and other times it's good trying all sorts of things.   
 So it's been tough, but today was a good day.   
  
  Q. You're not a belly putter man, are you?   
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: No. I've tried it before but I was not very good with it. I felt it was very difficult putting with it. I'm still a short putter man.  
  
  Q. When you come somewhere like this that involves the travel, you'll pack the way you normally pack, but how many putters are you carrying, how many to sort between?  
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I have the family travelling with me, so we are on the road now for ten weeks, so we have quite a few things: Three huge suitcases, three small ones, golf bag, stroller, car seat. So, yeah, when you get to the other side, you need two cars to take you wherever you're going, but it's nice having the family with me.   
  
  Q. Sounds like a nice vacation as well as work?  
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, in a way it is. But you know, once a tournament starts, it's all work.   
  
  Q. Presumably it makes you that much more relaxed of an evening, you can switch off and you're not just thinking about work?  
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: No, definitely. Once I'm off the golf course, off the range and I'm at home sitting with my little one, you forget about the bad golf, or even the good golf. You just have some quality time with them.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT