THE MCGLADREY CLASSIC
October 14, 2011
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DOUG MILNE: Louis, thanks for joining us for a few minutes, another solid round today, 3-under 67. Just a couple comments on just kind of playing off of yesterday, and here we you today heading into the weekend in solid shape, just how you're feeling. 
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, feeling good and confident going into the weekend, hitting it really well, and made a few putts the last two days. Been working quite a bit on the putting especially, and it's just nice seeing the ball go in the hole for a change. 

 Q. Can you tell us the thought process in deciding to play this event, and after a couple of days what you're thinking of the experience, both the course and this particular area? 
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I like the area. I like it when it's nice and quiet. I'm not a big city person. But yeah, it's mainly I needed to get 15 tournaments up and didn't play FedEx, which was disappointing. So came to play last week in California and play this one. 
 But I like the golf course. It's really nice. It might be a tournament that I'll definitely be looking at playing every year. 

 Q. So this is number 15?
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, this is 15, yeah. 

 Q. With the wind today the way it was and with your international experience playing all over the world, did you kind of feel comfortable out there with it? I guess you're used to dealing with that kind of environment. 
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I always enjoy windy conditions. It's always going to be tough for everyone, and if you can keep bogeys off your card, especially when it's very windy, you've saved quite a few shots up against the other players. I just enjoy playing in wind, grew up in it, and it makes the golf a bit more fun. 

 Q. Will it be much the same experience in Australia? Are you playing the week before The Presidents Cup?
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: No, I'm not playing the week before Presidents Cup. I'm not playing Presidents Cup, either. 

 Q. But in terms of where you've played before such as Europe, South Africa, where does this type of wind and the velocity and things like that and the openness of this course, where does that rank?
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Well, it reminds me a lot of Doral down in Miami. It reminds me of the type of grass and the greens. It reminds me of that, and it also can get windy down there. 
 So when I got here and saw that, it reminded me of that. I mean, there's great holes out there, especially today it was tough. If you start missing fairways, the rough is not thick, but it's those lies that it can come out dead or it can go flying all over the place. It's difficult rough to judge your shot.
 But you know, it's just a good golf course, and it just suits my eye. 

 Q. You said you were doing a good job of avoiding the bogeys today, but you also weren't getting a lot of birdies early on. Talk about the eagle on No. 15 and how big that was moving forward into the weekend. 
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, today I hit 7-iron in there, so it should be a definitely birdie. Made a good shot to six foot, and it's one of those where the putt can just get you going again the right direction. A bit disappointed before that only to be 1-under after 14 holes. I felt like I played a lot better. But the eagle there helped. 
 And then had three good opportunities for birdies on the next three, as well, and didn't come away with them. But 3-under, I'm very happy with it the way the weather was today. 
 DOUG MILNE: Thanks a lot for your time, and best of luck on the weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT