ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 30, 2011
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 13 birdies and two bogeys in two rounds, what's been the secret to success so far? 
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Probably the weather has got something to do with it. It's been good. I hit the ball really well all two days and last few holes, hit a few loose shots. But yeah it's great position to be in going into the weekend and look forward to spending a bit of time at St. Andrews.

 Q. You have not been at your best the last few months, tell us why, and has something clicked? Has something clicked in your game?
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yes, it's been a rough season. With the injuries, just playing badly and the last few months, just not getting the game where I want it to. 
 This week feels a bit different. I knew it was close. Just needed a few putts to go in. And just feels that way again, that I'm getting to the place that I want to be in and hopefully this week can change it. 

 Q. Geoff Ogilvy, who knows a thing or two about golf, says that you swing the club better than anyone in the world when you're swinging well; how much confidence does that give you?
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: That's nice to hear from anyone. I've been working on a few things on the swing. And I don't know, there's a lot of guys that swing really well.

 Q. You have your brother alongside you, how special will it be to go back to The Open Championship venue where you won your tournament and spend it with him?
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Just the practise rounds we walked through him and I showed him a few spots that I've been in, so it's really special just being back here, and he doesn't know what bad weather is now in Scotland. 
 So I think he thinks it's like this all the time but it's great fun having him with me and I think we'll enjoy the weekend quite a bit.

 There's a lot of golf to be played. St. Andrews is not an easy golf course and you need to hit it good and I'm just looking forward to it. 

 Q. Have you found form just at the right time for St. Andrews?
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Hopefully. I'm hitting it well. I feel like I'm putting well. Just had a few loose ones today at the end today, 15 and 18 and other than, that you know, I'm pretty confident going into the weekend.

 Q. Among the things you showed your brother, a quick one when you took him around the course, when thing sticks out most in your mind?
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Just showed him where the putt was I made on 9, the eagle putt, and you know, where I drove it on 14 and things like that. So yeah, it's just little things. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT