ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 29, 2011
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. This part of the world seems to agree with you. 
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: It was nice. Just a nice week to come back and experience everything again, and you know, it was good fun playing St. Andrews yesterday with my brother. Yeah, it was a good day today. The wind picked up a little bit which I liked, and the putter seemed to work.

 Q. Going around the Old Course with your brother; that a chance to share some memories with him?
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: It's his first time. I showed him where some of my shots ended up and things like that. It was good fun. It's a nice, relaxing week and I'm glad that he's here with me and we had a lot of fun, so that's good.

 Q. Did you try any of those shots? 
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Well, I hit it pretty straight that week, so it was straightforward. 

 Q. How special would it be to win here not just once, but twice?
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, it would be, it be would be very special. It's a great event. Played last year with injuries but it's just nice being back here and remembering some of the memories.

 Q. Did you feel a bit cheated not being able to go back last year? 
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, it happened -- I had the injury three weeks before the tournament, and just no chance of getting ready for it. It was a big shock for my brother because he was supposed to play, so I promised him this year I would take him.

 Q. Just wonder what you did; did you watch it on TV?
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I didn't want to. I was too upset that I wasn't there. I watched a bit of the last round but I didn't watch any of the rest of the golf. 

 Q. What was the injury again? 
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Tore the ligaments on the left ankle.

 Q. Talking to Greg, surprised you didn't get a pick? 
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: No, I was not surprised. I would have done the same, picking two Australian players. Both of them are playing well now and it's a great thing to play for your country. 
 So, yeah, I was more upset that I didn't make the team. 
 I've got myself to prove that I can just get back to the form that I wanted to be. The year started off well but then just slowed down through the middle. So I want to just get back to the way I know I can play. 

 Q. Would you say that the memories will be your inspiration this week?
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Definitely. There's nothing better than holding the Claret Jug at St. Andrews. Hopefully the end of the week it's just a different trophy. 

 Q. Playing with the Schwartzels today --
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: It was great fun playing with them. Me and Charl growing up, I knew his dad from when I was little, so it was good ton playing with him.

 Q. Turning point today, 66? 
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: With the weather like this, you should take advantage of it. You never know what's around the corner here, and you know, tomorrow Carnoustie, hopefully the weather is the same. But the forecast is pretty good, so I think there will be low scoring out there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT