PGA TOUR MEDIA CONFERENCE
July 5, 2011
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


   MARK STEVENS: If you want to talk about your day today, you toured the John Deere facilities, and you're going to start preparing tomorrow for the golf tournament and then you'll be flying over on the charter to the British Open to defend this year. So if you want to make some general opening comments about your day today and then we'll start taking some questions.  
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, today was quite fun. I started this morning at 7:30 at the factory, and took the three-hour tour through there and it's amazing. It was a big dream for me, coming from a farm, and I always wanted to go to the John Deere factory.   
 I'm here at the course, and hit a few chips, putts, hit a bit of balls, but my mind is still at the factory. It's great, it was a great week and I think it's going to be a good, fun week and good preparation for next week.   
 MARK STEVENS: Did they allow to you drive any of the equipment today?   
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I got in the combine and I drove around, between all of the others, which was good fun. I don't think it something that you usually do but it was good fun, yeah.   
 MARK STEVENS: Can you talk about your choice to play over in the United States before defending your British Open title?   
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: It was not an easy decision. But at the end of the day, I withdrew from Memorial a few months ago and messed up my schedule a little bit. I'm trying both tours and need to get 15 tournaments in America.   
 And you know, when I saw the John Deere Classic there, I realized that I could come and play this. They have the charter, and it's only a ten-hour flight from here back to Kent in England. You know, at the end it was to me an easy decision, because I knew I was going to the factory (smiling).  
 It was difficult, but I think it's a good week to also prepare and to get the swing right for next week.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT