U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2011
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Congratulations. Looks like Rory has had quite a day today. Your thoughts on what he did. Of course address what you did, but as a fellow major winner you have to be proud for him joining the club?
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: After the two rounds, I thought he was going to go further. I said he was going to win by 12, and he's got a chance. Obviously he's playing very well. And he's too good a player to be upset at the Masters. And I knew he was going to get over it the next day. He's a great player and he'll win more.

 Q. Back to you, a lot of people thought it was kind of not as difficult as a U.S. Open setup to date?
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: They couldn't really get the greens that quick and firm, it was soft, or they would lose all the greens. But I think it was a good U.S. Open. I think people would have enjoyed it more seeing a lot of birdies. But there's bogeys and doubles, too. 

 Q. What about the reception you received coming over after your first major win in America?
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yes, it was one of my best finishes in a Major. I'm glad I found this sort of form before four weeks before.

 Q. Looking forward to going back and doing that, obviously, that's been the last year in the making and now the British is the next one up?
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, before I went there, I played Royal St. Georges. And I just need to keep the game sharp.

 Q. How much more do you have before you go to the British?
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I'm playing the John Deere, as well. 

 Q. Do you think you'll play a lot more on the PGA TOUR and Rory will, after you've sort of established yourself here in America?
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I don't know, it's where you feel comfortable. I need to get about 15 tournaments up and I don't know -- I think Rory is only thinking about finishing this round now. 

 Q. Charl spoke about coming into this as a major champion, being recognized more in America, and I guess you have that yourself?
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, it's good. I think you feel more comfortable heading into the week. 

 Q. Shooting in the final round like that must be -- we expect you have ambitions to win more Majors. 
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I'm working on the game to get more Majors in. It's the last round and I could have finished better, I had good opportunities. But it's only my second U.S. Open and I had a really great week.

 Q. Summarize what you see in Rory as a player. 
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Well, we all saw it a long time ago, since when he won the Dubai Desert Classic. And it was just a matter of time. There was no way he was never going to win. He hasn't won it yet, but the way he's playing, I wouldn't be surprised if he makes a few more birdies. But he's too good a player, and you expect him in every major to be up there.

 Q. When you're in The Open -- when you win The Open, everyone complimented you on your swing and he's --
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: He's got a great swing, he hits it a long way. He's got a great short game. It's probably what makes him that good is having that good a temperament, for a 22-year-old to come out and perform well in every major, shows good character.

 Q. You and Charl have been able to push each other?
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I think me and Charl are a lot closer. We were friends early. He does his own thing. But I'm pretty sure that -- I hope me and Charl gave him a bit of a push to perform. To come back after what he did at the Masters, to come back this way, it just makes you realize he's just a great talent. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT