THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 15, 2010
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Definitely was a good round. Quite happy about everything, so yeah.   
  
  Q. What was working for you today?  
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: You know, I've been playing well for a while, and just I think the first nine holes there was a lot of birdies out there and just got really windy when we turned on the 12th. You know, from 16 to 18 was really windy, again. But yeah, very happy. Yeah, good.   
  
  Q. Any shots you'll remember for some time to come?   
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: No, to be honest with you, I just made a few putts today, which was great. I've been hitting the wall for a while and just haven't been making any putts, and today was just different from the putter.  
  
  Q. Did you curse yourself at 17?  
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: No, no, I didn't. I hit a second shot, just pulled it a little bit, and couldn't really go for the pin from where I was for my second. You know, it happens. That hole you've got to be on top on every shot.   
  
  Q. What's it like walking around and seeing yourself in second place most of the time?   
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Well, yeah, you don't really -- it's still early in the tournament. You don't really worry about those things. But you know, it's always nice seeing your name up there.  
  
  Q. Am I right that in Dubai last year when Rory won, you chased him down but didn't quite get there?   
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I think we were in the final group the last round. I think he was two shots ahead of me, and I just had a poor last round, really. He deserved to win. He played unbelievable, and it was great for him.  
  
  Q. Can you do it this time?  
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: A lot of golf left. A lot of golf left.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Well, we've got to see how it goes.  
  
  Q. I think you've missed the cut three times, did you do anything different to prepare for this week?  
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Not really, no. It was really a matter of getting my confidence up. I came close to winning a few times on the European Tour, and I think the win in Malaga early on in the year got my confidence going a bit. It's nice playing St. Andrews. We play it every year in the Dunhill Links, and the first time I've played here in an Open, and it's just a great golf course. I love it.  
  
  Q. What's your best score at the Dunhill Links?  
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I think I shot a 65 one time at the Dunhill Links on this course.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: It's holy ground we're walking on. It's just the way everything happens. It's just a nice feeling playing it, and you've got to work your way around the course. You've got to work your shots around. I like that type of golf.   
  
  Q. Is there something about your game that's been coming around the last few weeks?  
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I mean, I've been putting well, but I just feel like I haven't made those crucial ones. Today I just made a few nice putts. That always helps.  
  
  Q. Anything click for you early in the week?  
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: No, it's just I think I read the greens around here, I read them quite nice, and I've just got a nice feel on them. Yeah, it's been nothing different that I did on my putting than last week and the week before.   
  
  Q. What's your support system here?  
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: My wife is here, my little daughter, and a few friends, staying in a house.  
  
  Q. What are your wife and daughter's name?  
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Nel-Mare and my daughter is Jana. We're in a house for the week in St. Andrews here.  
  
  Q. How many times do you think you've played the Dunhill Links?  
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Since 2003, I think.  
  
  Q. Is there a familiarity with this golf course?  
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I mean, definitely. You know the golf course pretty well because you play two other rounds of links a year and the other two are Kingsbarns and Carnoustie. I think this time of the year the greens are probably better than they are at Dunhill, and yeah, it's just good.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT