ABU DHABI GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 24, 2010
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Great final round like last year.   
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I gave it quite a bit more speed than I would have really. I knew Rory was on the 18th, so I needed to make that.   
 So you know, I wanted to make it and chased it a bit past and other than that, played nicely the whole day. Missed a few fairways on the back nine that, you know, I had to scramble for par and made a nice birdie on 17, and, yeah, a bit disappointed with bogey on the last. But I don't think it's going to make that big a difference really.  
  
  Q. Do you think 66 at the start of the day might have had a seriously good chance?   
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: No, I had 63 in my head if I wanted a chance of winning. So I started off okay, and then when I birdied 10, 11, 12, it was on, and like I said I missed a few fairways on the back nine and couldn't really attack the pin and I had to scramble for par. I'm very happy with 66.   
  
  Q. And it's looking like a definite top-five finish for you.   
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: It's nice. I like it over here, and it's a great golf course and you know, I feel if you hit the ball really well, you can make a few putts around these greens, you know, you might shoot low numbers and then today I did that and just disappointed on the last a bit.  
  
  Q. You grew up with Charles Schwartzel and Trevor Immelman, you were all highly fancied to do well. Trevor has won a major, Charl has been playing really well, has it inspired you?   
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Definitely, Charl has inspired he many a lot winning the last two, and I was quite confident last week in the Joburg Open but he just really took everything away from everyone the way he played. And I didn't play that well.   
 I felt confident this week, but you know, I'll take this to next week into Dubai and the rest of the year and then hopefully play well.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT