ABU DHABI GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 21, 2010
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I'm really happy. It's getting a bit windy the last five, six holes. I'm very happy with 5-under. 
 Played nicely. Didn't make any bogeys. Made a few nice putts, so I'm very happy.

 Q. Looked like a good three-ball: You, Anthony Wall and Stephen Dodd all exchanging blows through the round?
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: All three of us have the new set of irons in the bag with the new grooves and everything. We were actually saying on the first that it's going to be fun to see what they do. 
 You know, it's a bit of a difference, but I think you should get used to it.

 Q. I take it they behaved and you played well enough with them? 
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, there's a few shots that came out completely different than what I'm used to, but you know, luckily, still was pretty decent, though. So I think it's just a matter of playing with them and getting used to them. 

 Q. Talk me through the last because it's not often we see a player standing right by the grandstand with a ball dropped down to him?
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I hit a beautiful tee shot down there, between 4- and 5-iron in, and I wanted to hit a Big Five iron and the 4-iron was a better club. I did hit 4-iron but I tried the 5-iron shot. So you know, just got a bit under it, turned it over way too much, and luckily there was a grandstand on the left and the guys were saying it actually had a nice lie.

 Q. Today you feel it's fair, but normally it's not fair, is it?
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, got the break, so I'll take it.

 Q. I take it that playing, and playing well, in South Africa last week, the rust has gone out of the system and you're always bound to look forward to this event? 
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I struggled in the last event and the SA Open with my putting, really. I missed a lot of putts, and I changed -- I actually changed to a putter that I started using two years ago, also, in Abu Dhabi, and with these greens and the putter I've got now, it roles so nicely and it's just a big difference. 
 You know, I think I've had 26 putts, where last week I probably averaged 32 or 31, so it's a huge difference. I'm just glad I sorted that out and I'm looking forward to the rest of the week. 

 Q. Stating the obvious that turning up here, you had memories of last year and you had a good chance?
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: No, it was difficult to forget the memories of last year, actually, because everyone keeps saying well, "You did well here last year, you did well here last year." I was actually nervous starting today's round, and just about three or four holes into it, I relaxed a bit and started playing nicely. 
 Yeah, it's a whole new season, but definitely got some good memories from last year. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT