NEDBANK GOLF CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY GARY PLAYER
November 15, 2019
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tough to follow up yesterday's round with another one low one today.
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Glad I got through that. It was just not great the whole day. I just fought just to get through it.
Q. How are you feeling?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I was fine starting. The last six holes got me a bit. The tee shot on 14, I felt it in the right lower shot with the pain and I think the next two holes, I was thinking of that and didn't really focus on what I had to do. Then on 16 again, I got my focus back and played nicely coming in.
It's pretty fatigued. Just need to rest for tomorrow.
Q. How tough is it to play knowing that it could reoccur? Is it something you're thinking of in the back of your mind?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I think it's past. It's fine. I just need to be a bit more focused on what I want to do and get out there and play some proper golf.
Q. How is the course today?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: It was tough. The wind was -- you could throw the wind chart away. It was guessing the whole day. It's difficult. Around this golf course, it's so difficult with the wind.
Other than Zander's round, I don't think there's really low ones out there. 65 today was I think a lot better than my 63 yesterday.
Q. As far as the course is concerned, drying out a little bit?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, it's nice to see the greens firming up a little bit and the speed going up. So hopefully tomorrow it will be nice and firm and fast.
Q. Give us your reflections on a 72?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, scruffy. Didn't play great. It was tough. The wind was all over the place and I just didn't hit the good shots. Hopefully tomorrow it's a bit better.
Q. Saddled with kidney stones coming into the tournament, and yesterday you got around walking slowly and playing slowly. What about today?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Definitely more fatigued today, especially the last six, seven holes. The tee shot on the 14, I hit it on the right side. I think it was more muscle related than anything else. The stones have passed. I just need to get some rest and play good tomorrow.
Q. You've said in the past you've learnt to respect certain holes on this golf course because they have been dangerous and costly in the past? Was that particularly true today? There were some nasty pins out there?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, it was tough. Zander's 65 today I think was better than my 63 yesterday.
The wind was honestly all over the place. You could throw a wind chart away. You had no idea standing on the tee where the wind was. You had no idea on the second shot what the wind was doing, and it was just difficult. That makes this golf course very difficult and the greens got firm and faster. I think the weekend is going to be a very good test.
Q. How valuable can the experience be this weekend?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I think a lot. There is holes where you can attack but there's a lot of holes where you just need to respect them and just take par and go to the next hole, and you know, other than my 14th and 15th hole today, I think I managed it pretty decent the way I was hitting it just to get around this golf course. I need to do a better job tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT