DUBAI WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY DP WORLD
November 20, 2009
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Wonderful round.  
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, it was good. It was fun. It was nice playing with Ross. We are pretty good friends. Yeah, it was good fun.   
  
  Q. You did seem to match each other stride for stride, you would make birdie and he would get one, as well?  
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: He had a 20-footer on 18 for birdie and I was thinking, please make it; I want to play together again. He made it and it was good.   
 Played nicely. Had a stupid bogey on the 8th, 3-putted and was a bit upset, but I came back nicely with three birdies in a row on 14, 15, 16.  
  
  Q. Don't concentrate on the blip; so much to be positive about.   
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: No, it was good. It started getting windy during the end, the last four or five holes was quite windy. But yeah, it's a tough golf course. On the greens, you've got to get yourself in the right spots. We had a lot of fun.  
  
  Q. What was it that made the difference between the two days? Is it partly the experience of just getting used to the course?  
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I played nicely yesterday, just I hit good putts and didn't make any really, and today I made a few, and hit a few close, as well.   
 I made a nice eagle on 7 which got me going a bit, and he I can't, so there was not much difference really. I just made one or two more putts.  
  
  Q. I take it that it is a course that takes a little while to get used to the nuances of where you've got to strike the ball?  
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: It just feels forever when you play it, because it's so hot and it's a pretty tough walk.   
 But I mean, I think the more you play it, the better scores you're going to produce.  
  
  Q. Well, it is so hot, and yet you choose to suddenly grow a beard. You have this fuzz on your face, you must be sweating a bit?  
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I was back home in South Africa and I went to my wife's farm for a week and I thought, I'm not going to shave. And got back home and said I'm not going to shave; and the next week, no, I'm not going to shave. Up to now, I'm getting used to it, so I think the minute she tells me I've got to shave it, I probably have to.  
  
  Q. What does she think of it?   
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: She said she's fine with it. I have no problems if I have to shave it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT