COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
January 25, 2009
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, disappointed with the way I played today, but I think the birdie on the last got me a bit more positive after that round.   
 Yeah, second, I'll take it.   
  
  Q. 36-under, something like that, in two consecutive weeks, if you like?   
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I've been playing well. I think today's round was the only round in the 70s my last eight rounds. So like I said to you, I don't feel like I was swinging it too great today, and I missed loads of putts this last round.   
 But hat's off to Alvaro. He made some unbelievable putts on 15, 16, 17. That's great stuff for him and he's a good player as well so, well done for him.  
  
  Q. I know it's different for you, but it's a fascinating final day.   
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I had an eagle opportunity on 10 and Alvaro had about a 20-footer for birdie. I thought if I could make that, I'll sneak two shots in the lead and get me a bit on a run.   
 You know, I missed and he made it, so the both of us were 16 and missed short the one on 11 for birdie and it swung around on 12. I hit a terrible second shot which left me about 40 yards from the pin and 3-putts and he made a one putt. He made birdie and I made bogey and the next hole he made birdie and I made par, so two holes that went to three shots. So it's a bit hard to come back from that.  
  
  Q. How hard are you on yourself?  
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I was today because I was looking forward to today and especially I made good putts for par, but whenever I had a birdie opportunity, I was so very tentative and I just couldn't get myself to make a good stroke.   
 But I mean, it's a learning curve, so hopefully next week it will be a bit better.  
  
  Q. Is this just about the best that you've played, certainly out on The European Tour?  
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Well, like I said, the last year or so, working with Pete, we are getting where we want to be, and I feel like I'm swinging it really good. And I'm looking forward to the year and I know now that I can definitely win one so looking forward to next week and the rest of the year.   
 I like next week's course and I'm definitely looking forward to it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT