COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
January 24, 2009
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Thoughts on the day?  
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: It was up and down, really. I started well with a rescue on the first hole, my second shot. I hit it to ten foot and I just missed the putt. I hit it well the first four or five holes and then fell asleep on the fifth green when I made a 4-putt. But that didn't bother me too much. I knew it was just a mental error, lost my concentration.   
 After that, it took me two or three holes to settle in again and I played nicely from there.   
  
  Q. I know you're the same and don't like to concentrate on any negatives, but when it's a 4-putt like that and you're playing so well, is it mental?  
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: It is. I just laughed when I hit the first one because I hit it way too hard off the green. I knew it was fast but I didn't think it was that quick. On the second, I hit a three-foot and missed that one, as well. And I just laughed and thought, geez, I haven't done that in a while it. Was pretty stupid. Well, we will see it still happens.  
  
  Q. Am I right to presume that you are playing well enough that you can laugh and shrug it off pretty clearly? You clearly regrouped on the back nine.   
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I knew if I was thinking of that the whole time I was just going to make more mistakes. It was actually just that hole. I mean, if I had just the 2-putt there, I wouldn't have made any bogeys. So it was just that six on the card.   
 But yeah, other than that, I didn't do anything really great to be honest. I played well I think but I didn't play like I played yesterday. It was a bit, to me, I missed a lot of fairways, which put me in difficult situations with just having to get to the green and make a par.   
 But the fairways did I hit, I hit some good shots into the green and definitely taking into tomorrow a positive out of it.  
  
  Q. Previous years would you have gone off the rails a little?   
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: After that six -- well not just the six, after a 4-putt everyone goes off the rails. But yeah, it just shows you, it still happens, and I think I made a lot of amateurs happy to see that we do that stuff, as well.   
  
  Q. What are your thoughts into the final round, one adrift of Alvaro?  
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Alvaro shot an unbelievable round. I was watching him and he made everything he looked at it looked like on the greens.   
 Yeah, it will be nice playing with him. He's a nice, great guy and I think it's going to be fun but it's also going to be the two of us, I don't know, like a head-to-head thing. It's going to be nice.   
 If you look at the leaderboard, as well, I think there's a lot of guys up there now, Stenson and Lafeber and a lot of guys played well today, and they will definitely take the positive out of that for tomorrow.  
  
  Q. How do you think a final round, I'm sure you would have loved a three- or four-stroke lead going into the final round but one off does that take the pressure off?   
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: In a way I think one behind is a good spot. Three or four ahead, everyone really is thinking you have to win. One behind is actually a nice spot to put myself with 18 holes left. I'm happy with that and I'll take it tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Alvaro has been talking about James Bond because his girlfriend bought him the whole DVD set, and Paul Broadhurst has found nothing to do but watch DVDs this week; what films are you into this week?  
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I watched a bit of Friends DVD collection that I've got. Other than that, we are just having a supper in the mall tonight and just go back and relax really and just watch a bit of telly.   
  
  Q. Supper in the mall, not a posh restaurant?   
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: No, I'm not the posh restaurant type.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT