COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
January 23, 2009
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   RODDY WILLIAMS: Thank you very much for coming in and joining us, and very well played today, three-shot lead going into the weekend. Imagine you're very pleased with that.   
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, it feels nice having a three-shot lead after the second round. I played well and I'm very happy.   
 RODDY WILLIAMS: Last week in Abu Dhabi, you finished second and showed a lot of form on the weekend and you seem to have brought that here this week.   
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, that's always a nice confidence boost, playing well the week before. That second spot, that was very close to getting into a playoff. It didn't look like it during the round.   
 Yeah, it was nice coming here and playing well, and I'm very happy.   
  
  Q. What happened on the fifth?   
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I thought I was going to make a par, but I made a good save, a 15-footer for par. Other than that, never really looked like making a bogey out there. Played really well and hit many greens in regulation, and I made some good putts for birdie. The other ones were just tap-ins for par.   
  
  Q. What happened there?  
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I hit my tee shot into the rough and just short of the green on the left and just hit it ten, 15 foot past and made it.   
  
  Q. After playing well last week and now being in contention - what has brought about this good form?  
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: The way I handle myself around the course, thinking that -- I'm used to being very aggressive on the course, taking on every shot. I try and stick with it, knowing, too, I can make 20-footers for birdie. So just try to get myself into position on the green.   
 Other than that, I had a very big temper on me about two or three years back, because I was frustrated that I'm not better than the way I played, and now I handle myself much better on the course and I try to enjoy myself much more and I'm definitely having fun. It's great, and working with Pete Cowen, my coach, we are going forward and forward with my swing.   
  
  Q. Did you work that out yourself?  
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: With Pete, as well. I struggled putting-wise a few years back, and I worked a lot on that and got much better, much more consistent. So I don't need to be that more aggressive. I can still make a score from just hitting the greens.   
 Pete helped me a great lot then, and my caddie, Zach, as well. The three of us are a great team and we are going forward.   
  
  Q. Have you much experience of leading on The European Tour?  
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I don't really on The European Tour to be honest. I've been in South Africa and it's gone well. I think I've won four times on the Sunshine Tour.   
 Like I said, we have 36 holes left. I'm really confident with the way I'm playing and I feel like I have a good shot at this, and we'll just see how it goes the next two rounds. I'm not going to do anything differently than what I've been doing.   
  
  Q. Are you playing next week?   
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yes.   
  
  Q. What's the attraction in playing in the Desert Swing?   
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: It's a nice three weeks to come over. The three weeks together, it's like a little holiday as well. It's a great part of the world and we have a lot of fun here. It's good and I like next week, as well, good golf course. Yeah, looking forward to that, as well.   
 Every time I come here I'm amazed. I remember when we stayed at the Intercontinental last year -- it's just amazing to come and see the new projects that they have got going, and it's really just amazing.   
  
  Q. How do you compare Doha Golf Club and the field here compared to Abu Dhabi or worldwide?  
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Well, if you go and look at the players playing here, it's an amazing field. I mean, you've got Ernie, Retief, Stenson, Karlsson, you have all of those guys playing. If you just have a look at the World Ranking points that are here this week, it's an amazing week.   
 Last year was just as good a field, and I think next week is going to be another good field. So these three weeks here always have got good fields, and I can't really say they are better than the other ones. It's just three pretty amazing weeks.   
 RODDY WILLIAMS: Thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT