THE ABU DHABI GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 18, 2009
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You're now in that position where you're relying on the leaders to make a mistake, what is that feeling like for a profession the golfer?   
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Well, you can't do anything about it. Paul Casey is a great player. 17, it was down the middle, so it will take something special for me to be in a playoff really.  
 Yeah, he's a great player, but we'll see how he does.  
  
  Q. If at the start of the week somebody had offered you 20-under par on Sunday afternoon, would you have thought that would have done the job?  
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Well, I think in any tournament, if anyone tells you 20-under par, you'll take it.   
 I think today especially was such a great day, not really any wind, and if you holed some putts, you could have shot a low round. I made some good putts, and for the first time, my par 5s, I was 4-under today; and the first three rounds, I was level on all of those. That made a difference. All in all I'm very happy.   
  
  Q. Was there one point today where you suddenly realised you were back in the tournament?  
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: To be honest, when Paul was at 14 and I was at 17, I was just focusing on the second spot. There were seven shots at that stage. I wasn't even looking at Casey. Kaymer was playing with me.   
 Then when I birdied to get to 19 and all of a sudden he was at 22, you're thinking, something can happen. I had a good putt on 17, but I'm very happy with my 2-putt on the last. It was quite a long putt.   
  
  Q. Are you going to watch Paul playing, or are you going to do something yourself on the range?  
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Well, depends what he does on 17 to be honest. I'll watch his tee shot on 18. If he somehow makes bogey on 17 -- you know, if he makes bogey on 17, I'll hit a few balls, but other than that, I'll look after his tee shot and I'll do something.   
  
  Q. On a hole like 18, where we automatically give you at least a birdie chance, what does the pressure of the position he'll be in do to change that, playing that 18?   
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: It all depends on your drive really. That's not an easy pin to get to, your second, even your third. I think because there's a lot of green. I think the pin is 45 yards on.   
 So it all depends on your drive. If you hit it down the middle, you have a chance of getting close to the green, but if you don't, you have all 80-yard shot for your third and that's not easy with that pin.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT