DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 3, 2008
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  A fantastic round of golf but obviously disappointed to bogey the last, what happened there on the third shot? 
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:  Yeah, as I stood over the shot, I felt a little breeze into myself, and yesterday, that distance, I had exactly the same distance.  I think I hit it just slightly thin, and I could have got clear with that bunker shot but there was not a lot of sand in it.  I thought if I could get it just like a yard further, might release down and give myself a chance for par, but yeah, it happens. 

 Q.  Starting six shots behind, at what point did you think you had a run at it? 
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:  My eagle, I had a great second shot in there, and I holed a 15-footer for eagle, and after that, I thought I'm hitting very well and hit it six foot on 11, missed the putt.  Made three good birdies, and from there, yeah, I always thought I had a chance getting to 13, and I was really, really relaxed out there, Dyson and myself had a nice laugh. 
 Yeah, it was good.  Slightly disappointed maybe on the 18th, but it happens. 

 Q.  What will you do next, because it's not over, obviously. 
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:  Yeah, going to the players' lounge I think and sit around and see what happens. 

 Q.  You really got that one going. 
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:  Yeah, I still missed one or two putts.  Played really nicely, yeah. 

 Q.  What was the second shot at 18? 
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:  5-iron.  I had about 189 metres to the front. 

 Q.  Did you ever a figure in your head before you set out, thinking, hang on -- 
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:  I thought to be honest starting at 5-under, I thought if I could get myself to 19, I might finish Top-5 or something.  I was hitting it well yesterday and I hit it well the second round.  And I got it going at 10 and then 12, 13, 14 obviously and missed a short one on 15.  Just hit it through the break. 
 Yeah, I'm quite happy with the way I played.  I haven't been in this situation a lot of times, especially with woods playing and Ernie playing. 

 Q.  Where does this rate in your career considering the situation? 
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:  At the moment, one of the best.  Hopefully, well, there's a lot of golf still to be played and there is a lot of birdie holes out there.  So I don't think it will be good enough.  I think 4-under on the last would have done it but I'll stay around and see. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT