WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 3, 2019
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Not the result you wanted but overall, happy with the week?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, to be honest, the way I've struggled off the tee box this week, I've done really well. I lost it on 9 and 11, had chances on 13 getting it back. I gave it a good shot. Tried to make a few birdies at the end. It's one of those.   
I was very inspired by the boys' play last night, the Springboks, and I thought I could go out and do it today, but unfortunately not.   
I started off nicely, and I just hit a very loose tee shot on 9. The wind changed completely on me on my second, on 11, and I can't do those things playing against class players like Rory and Xander. You just can't give away holes.   
 Q.  11, to hole that putt; you still had to fight hard because you never know what's going to happen.  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Definitely. 12 and 13, I had very easy putts. I pulled the one on 12 and misread the one on 13. That's the two shots I needed.   
The rest of my game, except for my driving, was very good this week. I putted beautifully. Iron shots were good. Can't complain.   
 Q.  What's it like to be out will when you're playing against two great players, the sun is shining and the world is looking at you, and you're really, really under the gun.  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: That's what you practice for. That's what you want. You want to have a chance going down the stretch on Sunday. That's what we work hard for, and try and get under the pressure. I always say, if you feel the pressure on a Sunday afternoon, you've done a good job.   
You know, I got to my tee shot on 18, and I'm on the downslope, and I just know whatever shot I hit, it's going to go long, it's going to either have a massive bounce and go long -- I just don't get the height on my clubs that those boys do. It was a tough one to lay up, but they played really good. I mean, Xander showed a lot of guts there on the last hole.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT