WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 2, 2019
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk about a good day,65. You must be really pleased.  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, five in a row, and then just played decent. Played solid golf. Rolling the ball nicely on the greens, and need to have another good one tomorrow.   
 Q.  Looking at the week so far, you've been swinging it nicely, rolling the putts nicely, as well. Has it been the case coming into the week?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: No. It's been getting better every round. Struggled the first two rounds with my driver. A little bit better today. Still a few wayward ones there in the middle of the round, but you know, I'm hitting my irons very good and I'm rolling the ball nicely, so that helps.   
 Q.  On a tricky course like this, where driving is premium, what's the key out there for you guys?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Driving. You need to drive it good. If you drive it good around this golf course, with the greens being the way they are, you can score low. You can have a low score because it's like I said before, I think it's the best I've seen the greens before.   
 Q.  Looks like you're going to be in the final group with Rory, something to look forward to for Sunday?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, played with Rory the last two rounds last week. He's absolutely striping it. I need to play really good golf tomorrow.   
 Q.  Could be a big sporting weekend with South Africa.  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I'm going straight here in my car to shower and wash the game.   
 Q.  Well-played today. 65, a nice score on a Saturday. What do you think?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, 65 on Saturday is always nice. Played lovely. Made loads of birdies. I think I made nine birdies today.   
 Q.  Looks though you really got the feel of these greens. Is that how you're feeling out there? How good are they, and are you building confidence on the greens?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: They are probably as good as I've ever seen them. They are really fast, very true. That's fun to putt on.   
 Q.  You have a big day tomorrow, WGC event here in Shanghai, one of the best championships out there. You're a major champion. How much would you like to take this thing home?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: A lot. You know, winning a World event will be a big achievement, and I need to just go out and play some good golf.   
 Q.  World Cup in rugby. Looking forward to that?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Straight from here to go and watch it.   
 Q.  Yesterday you said you were going to go to the range to sort a few things out. Showed the first five holes.  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, it was a very fast start. Yeah, today I really struck the ball really good with my irons.   
The driver, I had a few awkward swings out there, but at the end I started hitting it good. So yeah, all in all, I feel like I've got a really good feel on the greens, and just played really good today.   
I think around this golf course, the way the greens are, if you give yourself lots of opportunities, you're going to make a few. They are so pure and so good, the greens. It's the best I've seen them.   
 Q.  Tomorrow, final group. Going to be exciting.  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, it will be very nice if we can tee off with a World Cup victory. I'm more nervous on that than I was on my round today, but yeah, I hope the boys do it tonight.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT