WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 1, 2019
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Five birdies, two bogeys, tell us about your second round here.  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, scoring was good. I didn't feel like I played 3-under. I struggled a little bit. I'm still working on some stuff on the long game and I had a few really bad swings with long irons. I still need to work a lot on that, and need to get the ball in the fairway.   
 Q.  There was joy yesterday on the par 3.  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Today, the pin was no chance. You can go for the pin -- I think everyone just played to the middle of the the green on the right. Yeah, it's about par 3s, and you need to hit the ball pretty solid to get it close.   
 Q.  You've been playing WGCs and majors for quite a while, what's the value of these? How much better are they and how much stronger are the WGCs now?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, other than majors, normally your four toughest ones, and then you have PLAYERS championship and WGCs. Those are the ones that really stands out. It's always really strong fields playing those events. I mean, this week, it's probably the best I've seen the greens on this golf course, really fast, nice and firm.   
You know, when the wind gets up a little, it gets tricky, but we've had it good so far with not a lot of breeze.   
 Q.  You might not be totally satisfied with the way you're striking the ball, but you're in contention, so the weekend hopefully will be positive.  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, going to do a little bit of work now and see if I can sort something out to just get that long game going. Right up there and I just need a good weekend.   
 Q.  So there's very big sporting events this weekend. Tell us about the World Cup final tomorrow.  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I think I'm more nervous for that than I am for my round of golf. We're going to support the boys. They look ready. We'll see how tomorrow goes.   
 Q.  Will you get a chance to watch it here?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I think we're all going to watch it in the hotel, and that's even worse because there's a lot of English players here. I think we are outnumbered, but we'll have a nice voice in that match.   
 Q.  You're calmness personified, demeanor. Will you be passionate and shouting or will you just take it all in?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: No, I get very excited and very angry at the same time. So I think I'm probably a very -- I'm a really big Springboks supporter, so sorry for any words that might come out of my mouth tomorrow watching the game.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT