U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2019
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You came out on fire like you were going to be in contention.  How do you feel about the front nine, and did you put yourself in position to win?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, after nine holes I definitely had a good shot.  Still probably had to go 3-, 4-under on that back nine if I wanted to win.  First errant tee shot of the week on 10.  Laid up in the bunker, and I should not have taken the shot, honestly, just laid it up and see if I could find a way to make par, or at the worst a bogey.  That cost me a little bit.
And then another errant tee shot on 14.  And anywhere else in the bunker that was fine, but it was right up against the lip, and I couldn't get it far enough down there.
I have to take a lot of positives out of this week.  I played well.  I put myself in -- I played well enough to win this event, and that's where you want to be in a major.  Now I'm looking forward to the next one at The Open.
Q. You said you've been in so many positions to win majors.  Obviously you won The Open.  Do you feel like as you gain more experience in these major events and being this competitive, you're about to break through?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I hope so.  But I just need to do what I've been doing.  And obviously I was close to leading after halfway at Augusta this year, and then did horrible on the weekend.  But I need to just keep on putting myself in position and see if I can knock down that second major.
Q. Wind was never a factor this week at Pebble Beach.  Did you think the pin placement today was more difficult than it has been this week to try and increase difficulty?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I think it was probably a few more pins was tougher to get to today.  But, yeah, I thought overall it was a great, great setup this whole week.  Thursday, low rounds going out early.  And even Friday morning.  But I thought they did a great job with the golf course the way it was set up the whole week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT