U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2019
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How pleased are you with your finish today?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, great finish.  It wasn't a great round up until the third when I started playing a bit better, and struggled all day with getting green speed up.
But, yeah, that putt on 15 sort of gave me a bit of what I needed to do in the round.  But I made good putts on 15, 16 and 17.
Q. Is that going to be the key for you tomorrow, just staying patient?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I can't make mistakes on 11, giving a shot away on a hole that you should birdie.  But no mistakes tomorrow.  I feel like I need to start well and just play a great round.
Q. Are the scores in any way surprising out here in a U.S. Open?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Well, for a U.S. Open maybe, but I think they've done a great job with the golf course.  If you don't drive it good around here or struggle with your iron play, you're going to struggle.  It's so, so tough, the rough.  And you still need to hit fairways, still need to hit greens.
And, yeah, it's nice to see red numbers in a U.S. Open, and I think it's a little bit more exciting.
Q. Will you draw upon your British Open win in 2010 at all tomorrow when you're playing out there?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Just the fact that I've been there and know what the pressure is going to be like.  But I think the guys, the last group, is going to be a little bit more pressure because obviously in the lead.  For us trailing, it's a little bit better feeling sort of giving it a better go.  You don't have that pressure of the lead.  And just go with everything tomorrow.  If you think you can take something on, take it on.  And if you want to win the championship, you need to do that tomorrow.
Q. Is there any extra sense of urgency to get off to a hot start?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I think holes 1 through 7 I think you should be, in the position I am, probably 2- or 3-under around when I get to the 8th.  But, yeah, you know, I think once you get through 8, 9 and 10, and I definitely think there's some birdie holes after that, as well.  But 8, 9 and 10 is always a key stretch where you can easily throw your round away.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT