U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2019
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Not a lot of big red numbers, you come in under par, do you feel pretty good about the round?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I had a lot of loose iron shots today.  To shoot 1-under par the way I felt on a few shots I take a lot out of that round, a lot of good things.
Q. Good into the weekend, your mindset, two good rounds?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, need to put up a solid round tomorrow and see what's going on Sunday, and try and keep up with the guys.  And a lot of golf is left.
Q. How different was the course playing for you today compared to yesterday?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: The greens were just a little bumpier, but I thought they were still pretty decent.  Poa annua can get real bumpy in the afternoons.  I felt the golf course played really good.  At the end there a little more shots I was taking a big first hop, but other than that I felt they've done a really good job with the golf.
Q. Jordan had a lot of birdies, and also a lot of bogeys.  And he said I'd rather be 2-under that way.  You went out and got seven birdies?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Seven birdies and six bogeys.  I'm not a big fan of bogeys, I had a lot of bogeys on my scorecard.  But you miss these greens, it's so difficult around the greens at the rough.  And you can't control the ball.  You basically are guessing what it's going to do.  And all those loose iron shots, I had tough chips, and end up bogeying probably all of them.
Q. If you could throw the bogeys out --
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: That's the plan, yeah.
Q. So going into the weekend knowing you are able to go out on this course and put up a lot of birdies, obviously it will be set up different tomorrow --
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, for poa annua greens I've never had really a good track record on poa annua.  But I've been really solid this week on them and felt that I could see the lines pretty decent.  I'm looking forward to the weekend.
Q. In the press conference you were talking about looking at the beauty around you.  But what is it like playing competitive golf and being at a venue like this with all this?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Like I say, I think when Thursday comes it's all golf and all business.  And Tuesday was the day that you were out there just really looking and taking it all in, especially the way the weather was on Tuesday.  But it still stays a spectacular place.  And it probably is my favorite U.S. Open venue.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT