WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 30, 2019
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Not only this week, but last week, tied for second at Valspar.  What has elevated in your game over the last few weeks?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I don't know.  First two rounds at Tampa was not good golf, but I managed to make the cut and then showed up on the weekend and started playing better.   
 Q.  You're taking on Kevin Kisner, tough, gritty guy who made it to the finals here last year.  What are you expecting from him as an opponent?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: The two of us this morning were joking, saying we should get golf carts because we are on the older side of things, to do 36 holes.  Yeah, it should be fun.  I know he's a great match player, and made it to the finals last year.  So hopefully I can beat him this afternoon.   
 Q.  I'm so impressed with your putting.  Unofficially you have 24 birdies this week.  That would lead the field.  And you had one-putts for five straight greens starting at the 7th.  You didn't give Marc Leishman a chance to come up for air?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: You know, I'm putting good, so it sort of takes a little bit of pressure off the rest of the game.  I'm not really forcing it to go to the pins.  And if I'm not doing it, I'm swinging it better.  And I actually did hit a few really close today.   
But, yeah, I'm starting to see the line and speed, and it's working nicely.   
 Q.  A couple of long putts for you at the first, at the 9th, here at the 17th.  Seemingly every putt has a chance to go in for you.  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I mean I think those ones, those longer ones where you sort of change your line because you're maybe you're putting a little off and you're changing your speed, if I can just get them out of the way and not change the way I see the line and just hit my normal putts.  But, other than that, yeah, rolling it nicely.   
 Q.  I always wonder about your back.  In good shape to go another round here?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Well, we're gonna test it.  I'll be fine for today.  I think tomorrow would be a challenge, if I get through.  But, yeah, maybe we'll get golf carts.   
 Q.  I don't think that's going to happen.  Your thoughts on Kevin Kisner?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: He's a gritty, great match player.  It will be a tough match.   
 Q.  Another victory.  You must be pleased with it.  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I'm playing nicely and just need to keep it going.   
 Q.  This afternoon, Mr. Kisner, I think, is it?  Another tough match.  Never anything like an easy match out here, is it?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: No, there's no easy matches.  Yeah, a nice little rest now.  I need to get a quick lunch and a little bit of physio and off again.   
 Q.  So are you happy with the way the game is going?  You said the first round wasn't great, but you actually found something and the momentum is growing.  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, yesterday was a big turn for me in my putting, and I was rolling the ball really nicely today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT