WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 29, 2019
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Your thoughts on your match today?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, you know, I was 2-down early but then started rolling in putts.  And sort of making everything.  And then I really started hitting it good as well.  Just found something early in the round and what I started off looking for, I felt was missing in my putting stroke and found it, did A good knock on the ball and good hits on the putt and started reading it good, as well.  So everything sort of fell in place.   
 Q.  What was it that you felt was missing?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: It was tempo, really.  I felt my tempo was out the first two days really.  I felt I got long on my back stroke and sort of deceled through, and couldn't really pinpoint what it was.  And even just on my first putt today I did the same.  And as I did it I sort of realized what I was doing wrong.  And front, too, I started rolling the putts really good.  And once you start rolling it good, you start reading it better and just knew I had to keep my ball in play because I'm going to have a chance on the greens.   
 Q.  What do you like about this golf course?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, one-on-one is great.  You can have those days where you're not playing really good but sort of mentally you grind it out and fight it out and sort of don't give your guy anything, just showing you're there, not going away.  And other days you run into a brick wall and there's nothing you can do.  So it's all on your opponent and how they're playing.  I just like the golf course.  I like the layout and for match play, I think it's a great trek.   
 Q.  Your thoughts on playing Marc Leishman?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, it will be a tough match.  Marc is playing some good golf.  It will be a tough match.  Hopefully we play some good golf tomorrow.   
 Q.  This is the worst wind of the three days, it was really blustery today.  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I felt yesterday -- when we teed off yesterday the wind was probably, I think it was blowing a little harder than it was today, but sort of similar direction.  So you had a good idea of how the holes are going to play.  But, again, you know, I think in match play you almost want the wind to really blow, and I think the weather is going to be a little different on the weekend.  I think they're expecting some rain sometime, I don't know when.   
But again it's one-on-one.  If it's a bad-weather day you might win a match by being level par, you never know.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, it's nice playing in windy conditions but I don't think I want to play this golf course in stroke play when it's very windy.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT