WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 28, 2019
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Not the best played 18th hole, but tricky hole location and the important thing is you win, you move on, you give yourself a chance at moving into the round of 16.  You had to win this match?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I had to win this match.  I played good today.  I made 8 birdies, a few bogeys.  Obviously one on 18.  But I played decent.  And that lie I had on 18 there was rock hard.  It was always just going to jump, bounce on me.  And I just played it to the right to give myself opportunity to two-putt, obviously it went way too far.   
But, yeah, it was one of those where I have to win otherwise tomorrow it's just going to be a very sad face out here, so at least I've got a shot.   
 Q.  On the 18th you got a scorable lie after your tee ball and made eight birdies into the match.  And you come into this week showing good form out of the Valspar?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, there's still a lot of things I have to get right before Augusta in a few weeks' time.  I've been better off the tee.  I'm not great off the tee at the moment.  I need to sort that out.  But it's getting there.  And confidence is good and I feel like I'm putting well.  So just need to find that small little spot.   
 Q.  All you've got to do is get a little better each day, you'll have that opportunity on Friday.  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Thank you.   
 Q.  With Tommy tomorrow, it's going to be a tough one?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, Tommy is obviously -- it's always going to be a tough match.  I don't know what he did today.   
 Q.  He halved.  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Obviously if Kyle wins and Tommy wins it's up to them.  But, yeah, I feel like I've still got a shot at least if I can pull a win tomorrow.   
But, yeah, I played nicely today.  A lot better than yesterday.  When you do that round yesterday, I didn't lose, you're sort of on your back foot, the whole way and just hoped I could get a win today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT