ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 17, 2019
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Second round of 68, 4-under par.  Sum that one up from your point of view.
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, it was going nice and strong, and then a bit derailed on the 10th.  Didn't think I could reach, so cart path on the left for my second, and had to take a penalty all the way on one of the tee boxes on 11.  So made bogey.  And the rhythm was a little broke there.  Hit a poor bunker shot on the second at 11 and missed a short putt.  Sort of just needed to find my feet after those two holes.  And then I knew I was hitting it good, I just needed to dial it a little bit in, not wander too far off with the brain.
Q. How important was it to make the birdies as quickly as you did afterwards to get the momentum back?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I just wanted to get back to giving me opportunities because I feel like I'm seeing the lines pretty good and I'm rolling it nicely, and immediately on 12, I hit a good putt, just missed it on the right, and then birdies on 13 and 14 sort of got me back on track.
Q. This is your 405th tournament.  Your last start you finished second.  It was your 100th top 10 of your career.  How pleased are you with that, 25 per cent of top 10s?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, that's nice.  I've always -- I try and get my game so that I try and compete every week or at least top 30 every week.  But yeah, you have some weeks where you struggle where that's difficult, but other weeks it seems easy to make a top 10.  So you just need to go through all those emotions and just keep on plugging.
Q. Second round 68, the breeze is a little bit up today.  How much tougher was it today than yesterday?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: You know, yesterday was no breeze at all, so the first few holes we sort of had to find your feet, and on a few occasions the wind changed on us.  I think a lot of holes it made it a little easier if you were driving it well.  You can really get close to some of the longer par-4s.  I think a few of the par-5s today were tough because everything was into the wind.  But other than that, I felt like I played really solid and just gave myself a lot of putts for birdies.
Q. Three early birdies again on the card, but somewhat of an unfortunate bounce on the 10th when you hit the cart path and you ball seemed to go miles.
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, we didn't know it hit the cart path and we didn't really think we could get there.  Yeah, I did really well to just make a 6 on that hole, and a bit of a concentration lapse on the next hole with a bogey there today.  That's definitely a birdieable hole.  But yeah, I got back nicely after that.
Q. How pleasing was it to finish with a birdie on 18?  It was a fantastic up-and-down.  The tee shot just strayed.  You must have feared the worst for a moment.
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, just not that confident with my club on the tee shot, and I got very lucky and got lucky on the second shot, as well.  Some weeks you have those breaks going your way and other weeks you don't.
Q. Big Rolex Series, you came close in the Nedbank to winning a Rolex Series event; how nice is it to be going and challenging in the first one of the year?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I mean, it's -- trying to win any event and going into the weekend really close, it's always exciting.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT