ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 16, 2019
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. That's a fantastic start for you in this tournament.  Just give us your thoughts on the round today.
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: It was -- other than I got the club wrong completely on the 12th hole, it was the only green I missed, so it was pretty solid just all in all today.  Yeah, still rolling the ball nicely and made some good putts today.
Q. It's been a great start to the season for you already.  You got the win, of course.  How important is it for you to keep that momentum going into the bigger events like this one?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I mean, it's very important to keep going and play well.  A good start to the season is always nice for the rest of the year.  You can sort of build on that.  So yeah, see if I can put three more good rounds together and then see if I can have a good finish this week.
Q. Today and those last few rounds, as well, what is it that's pleasing you most about your game at the moment?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I think driving and putting.  You know, I've been driving it really good, shaping the ball the way I want to, and just rolling the putter nicely and making a few putts, where in the past I used to struggle with that.  Felt like I putted -- nice rhythm to my stroke now, and yeah, seeing the lines good.
Q. How much compensation do you have to make during the course of the round because it is quite cooler in the mornings here and very hot now and obviously that changes the way the ball flies?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, first few holes it went nowhere, but then all of a sudden you get a little looser and the sun comes out and you start hitting it a little further all the time, and you sort of judge it as you play.  Only the last three holes I felt like I was hitting it a little further than what I used to, but the rest of the round was pretty consistent to what I normally hit.
Q. Opening round of 7-under par.  What do you feel you did particularly well today?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: A few things.  I putted really nicely.  I drove the ball great.  Early mistake on 12, where wrong club -- the ball for some reason, all three of us went nowhere.  DJ just got it over the water, I think Henrik got it a foot over the water, and mine stuck in the water.  Definitely the ball went quite a bit shorter early on.  But yeah, other than that, drove it well, and just kept myself in play the whole time, giving myself putts.
Q. I saw you on occasion putting with the pin in.  Just explain your thinking.  Did you test it out?  Did you figure out I hole more with the pin in?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: It's something different to do.  No, what I like about it is sort of -- out of the corner of my eye, I sort of see the pin or know the general direction or just -- it's a little bit of a different feel on longer putts, and I quite like that.  I hit one on 11, quite a long one, and I putted it to a foot and then no one knew if they were going to take the pin out for me, and I said, no, you can take that out, I'm not comfortable on the short ones yet.  But yeah, the longer putts definitely I like the pin in.
Q. You've won a number of times around the world, but you won your own national open, the South African, at the end of last year.  How special was that?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, it meant a lot to me.  It was one that I really wanted and always had scheduling problems to play it.  You know, it was always up against a big family holiday we have, and last year was the first time that I could actually play it in the last six, seven years, and I was delighted to win.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT