NEDBANK GOLF CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY GARY PLAYER
November 11, 2018
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Not the result you would have hoped for but still, it was a pretty good week?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, it's not the result I wanted.  I played really well today, and was up in the leaderboard there for awhile.  But Westwood, the way he played the back nine -- I was pushing hard at the end to try something.  Proud of the way I handled it.  I felt I gave myself a lot of birdie opportunities and I played really well.  Just had to do too much there at the end.   
 Q.  Leaderboard watching the last couple of holes?  How much were you paying attention to what was happening ahead of you?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: The birdie he made on 17, I knew I had to finish, birdie, birdie finish.  I saw his second shot on 18 when we walked off 17 -- sorry, when we were on the 17th green.  I had, what, a 15 -foot putt for birdie, and probably the best putt I had today and right at the end it decided to turn the other way.  That hurt, because that was the one I knew then I could have a little bit more focus on 18.  But that sort of knocked all the energy out of me and knowing I needed to make a 2-down the last and I probably tried a bit too much.   
 Q.  There's plenty of positives you will take out.  You mentioned you were in the lead.  Lots that you can draw on from this experience.  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, definitely.  I played well today.  There's not much I could have done more.  I made good putts.  I missed a few easier putts, but all in all, you know, I attacked when I wanted to attack and I pulled a lot of good shots off.   
Big thing today for me was committing to the shot and taking it on, and don't really matter what the outcome was.  I did all that.  There was maybe one or two I didn't pull off.  There's not much more I can ask for.   
 Q.  Great support for you again out there today.  The crowds really get behind you.  That must have been nice to see.  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, it was good.  It would have been nicer if I could lift the trophy for them but again, hats off to Lee the way he played today.  8-under around that golf course without a dropped shot is good golf.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT