NEDBANK GOLF CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY GARY PLAYER
November 10, 2018
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Take us through the round today.  How was it out there?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: It was tough for me.  Didn't play well.  Didn't hit many good shots, really.  So it was -- realized early on that it was a round I needed to keep together and not really blow myself out of the tournament.  I hung in there nicely.   
A little bit of a stupid error on 14, but other than that, the way I was playing today, I'm very happy to be two behind.   
 Q.  How pleased are you that when you assessed early on it was going to be a bit of a battle that you hung in there and you were still able to post a reasonable number?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, these are the rounds you take a lot of positive out; if you don't play well and you're still in it to win.   
You know, the birdie on the last was a big momentum for me going into tomorrow, and two behind is a lot better than four behind.  But yeah, it was a tough day.  I just need to dial in a bit tomorrow and hopefully hit it a little better.   
 Q.  Is it helpful playing with the person you try to reel in or would you rather be coming from a few shots back?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I enjoy playing with the leader.  It's what we play for to be in that spot, playing the last group on a Sunday.  I just need to go out and fire at pins and hopefully have a good round.   
 Q.  Does the approach change all that much?  How do you go about the round tomorrow?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: You'll probably take a little bit more aggressive on some shots, not on everything.  Big thing giving yourself as many putts for birdie as possible.   
 Q.  Third round 72.  Have you felt you had to work a little harder today than the previous two days?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Definitely.  It was a struggle the whole way around for me.  Somehow kept it together and didn't let it get away from me.  Chuffed about that.   
 Q.  Did you feel you had a little bit of fortune the way the ball kicked on 18 and the fantastic putt to finish with a birdie?  That must have been a nice feeling.  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I hit one of the few decent second shots I hit and wind must have just switched a little and pushed it off the left.  I just looked at it and as long as it's left of the bunker, it can go middle of the green so it should be okay and then I had a very fortunate kick and made a good putt.  Yeah, happy with that.   
 Q.  Obviously going into Africa's Major into the final group.  How excited are you at the prospect of the final group on Sunday?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, two behind on Sunday playing in the final group, it's what you play for in any tournament.  It will be a good challenge.   
 Q.  A word on the support out there.  I know you have lots of friends and family out there.  Was it good atmosphere out there?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, it was brilliant.  It was good seeing everyone there, a lot of home support, and I'm glad I could make the birdie on the last for them.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT