NEDBANK GOLF CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY GARY PLAYER
November 9, 2018
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Give us your thoughts on that performance, a 67.  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, pretty happy.  Pulled it again on No. 8, but after that had a good run at a few holes.  Playing nicely.  Just trying to hit the fairways, and then my iron play feels pretty decent and I feel like I'm rolling it nicely.   
 Q.  How did conditions differ today from yesterday?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: It was sort of mixed.  With the wind it was early on, not a lot of wind and then a little bit, you know, swirling again and then at the end, picking up a little but it's just not a consistent wind.  It's all over the place.  You have to play it as you feel it at that stage, but yeah, it's a golf course which you just need to be very patient around.   
 Q.  I think you've had four Top 10s in the last six years.  What would it mean for you to win this week?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, it would mean a lot.  It's a golf course I really enjoy playing, and in front of the home crowd will be pretty special.   
 Q.  Another great performance.  You must be pleased with your work out there today.  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, got off to a really good start again.  You know, eighth hole, I don't feel like I really have a club for that hole to tee off.  I want to hit 3-iron, but it's probably the narrowest part of the fairway where you want to hit 3-iron and trying to hit it a long way, as well.  It's just a tough tee shot on my eye, and I have to work on that tomorrow.   
 Q.  You were able to bounce back and get the round going again after a fast start.  Pleased with the way you brought things back?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, missed a tiny little putt on 8 for 4 would have been a really good bogey and then hit a great putt on 9, stopped at the end and sort of breaks a lot of momentum.  If both those putts go in, you're still at 6-under.   
But then pulled off a really good 5-iron on 10 and made eagle and that sort of got everything going good en.   
 Q.  What are you doing that you're particularly pleased with at the moment?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Not looking at the one tee shot that I hit on 8, I feel like I'm hitting it good off the tee.  I'm finding the fairways and my iron play has been good for a while.   
I'm doing everything good.  I'm just not making those putts that look like they are going in.  I'm hitting very good putts.  I haven't hit many bad putts this week.  You just need those putts to go in to win events.   
 Q.  Is it a case of being patient and waiting for them to drop or are you actively working on something?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I'm just, you know, not really working anything.  I'm looking at my line and just try and feel the putting.  I'm hitting good putts.  I just need to stay patient.   
 Q.  How excited to be in this position that you are in this event?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, there's a lot of golf left, 36 holes.  There's a lot.  I'm feeling good going into it.   
So yeah, I need a good, solid round tomorrow.  I don't have to really attack or do anything crazy, but just a solid round to put me in a good spot for Sunday.   
 Q.  3-under through four holes at the start of your round today.  How pleasing to get off to that first start?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Felt great.  I hit a nice putt on 1 and hit a really good chip on 2 and got my round going.   
So yeah, that's a start you dream of and it's just trying to keep that momentum going is always tough around this track.   
 Q.  Just the one hole that cost you today but the eagle cancelled out the double bogey and set the tone for the back nine with a couple of birdies coming in?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I made a really good par save on 12 and 13, and then 14, hit a great up-and-down where I was sort of in trouble over the green and hit a good iron shot into 15.   
So you know, I sort of kept the momentum going after that eagle and I'm very pleased with that after the mishap on 8.   
 Q.  Is this one of those courses no matter how often you play, you still have to adjust in the round to suit the conditions?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, definitely.  You can have all the course knowledge in the world here.  It's not going to make a difference.  The wind is swirling all over the place.  It's tough tee shots, whether you've played here many times before or the first time here.  It's a good golf course, especially off the tee box.   
 Q.  Obviously going into the weekend tomorrow in the final group in your home event, how pleasing is that and how excited are you at the prospect of the weekend?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I'm very excited.  I've got quite a few friends and family here and obviously the home crowd behind me.  It should be fun playing tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT