NEDBANK GOLF CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY GARY PLAYER
November 7, 2018
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: The course is good.  I think for the rain they had, it's really looking brilliant.  Greens are really good.  Fairways are great.   
Yeah, every year we come here and the course is in really good shape.  I don't know about the new tee on 18, if they are really going to stick with that.  Today I hit driver and I couldn't see the green.  It's a bit of a strange one.  I thought it was a great hole with a normal tee, but you know, course is about, yeah.  Game feels good.  So just need to go out there and play well.   
 Q.  The rough is a bit down.  Does that make a big difference?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: It does, but you still get those lies that it just goes down that little bit, and out of kikuyu, judging how it comes out is tough, especially around the greens, chipping and pitching.  But yeah, it's a lot easier than being faster, yes.  The course is really good.   
 Q.  I saw you eyeing up a 5-footer on 15 and it had a lot more break than you could see.  Is that indicative of the greens out here?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I think you need to get used to it again.  You know, I remember last year, the same thing, you sort of -- as you get your speed a little better, you see a better line.  I did a lot of chipping around the greens today, so I didn't really spend that much time just putting.   
But yeah, on that little putt I had, it was a little 8-, 9-footer, and it broke double what we saw.  I think if I might have taken a bit more time, I might have seen it, but yeah, it's definitely I think a little tricky sometimes.   
 Q.  Is it cool to be back in South Africa?  There's a strong South African contingent this week.  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, we arrived last Thursday back in SA, so it was a little bit of holiday season for me, but I'm looking forward to, I don't remember when last I've done three SA events.  So I'm just chuffed with playing this, SA Open and Leopard Creek.  Yeah, just looking forward to getting the week started   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT