THE 147TH OPEN
July 22, 2018
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So I didn't see what you did on 18.
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Par on 18.
Q. I think that's level par for the tournament.  Tell me about your round today and the conditions.
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: The conditions were tough, but it was perfect conditions to do -- you know, to climb up the leaderboard.  This is exactly what I was hoping for today.  I just played awful.  I couldn't find rhythm during the whole round.  Didn't hit a lot of greens.  So the whole day was a bit of a struggle for me.
But kept it together somehow.  Yeah, level par, 29th for the tournament.  I can take some positives out, but need to do some more work.
Q. And obviously, you had a bit of an injury worry this week.  That didn't bug you?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: No, it was all last week.  We knew it's going to be two, three days where it's going to have to settle down, inflammation need to settle down, and we managed it pretty good to get rid of it.  By last week, Sunday, I could hit balls.  So, yeah, we did a good job to get rid of it.
Q. Just your thoughts on the week as a whole.
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Today is how I know Carnoustie, how it can play, how tough it can be.  You're going to see some tough holes out there.  I'll go and watch the rest of the golf now.  Yeah, it was a great venue, great golf course.  My first time playing at Carnoustie, and can't wait to come back here.
Q. What's it like seeing Tiger back in contention?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: It's great.  I think he's going to give the boys a bit of, you know, thinking out there.  He's been, obviously, in a lot of these situations.  Look, he's swinging it well.  He's playing nicely.  He's making putts.  We'll see what number he can post.  Round this golf course, those last three holes today, it's not easy.
Q. And what's your schedule looking like for the next couple weeks?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I'm going back to Palm Beach tomorrow and a few days of rest, then back to working and practising and playing Akron and PGA and then waiting for the FedEx.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT