THE 147TH OPEN
July 21, 2018
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Louis, just tell me about your round.  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: You know, I think a little disappointing.  Probably 5, 6-under today is a fairly easy score, I thought, for me, but, yeah, just didn't make enough of the putts.  Just a little disappointing.  Need to play really low tomorrow.   
 Q.  On the par-5 6th, what happened there with your second?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: It was a little too much club, and I had to take off it and probably tried way too much with it.  Got lucky to find it and still make par.  But, yeah, just a bit of an error on thinking-wise.   
 Q.  Just talk through your birdies today.  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I don't even remember what I made.  Made one on 1, birdie on 1, started the day nicely with it.  I think another birdie on 4.  Yeah, you know, and then birdied 14 and 15.  It was at least four or five more that I felt I left out there.  Just one of those frustrating days really not making as many birdies as I wanted to.   
 Q.  Must have been disappointing with your finish.  I didn't see what happened on 18.  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, just went for -- the greens had slowed down quite a bit, and I went for the first putt trying to make that long putt, and I just ran it six foot by and just a little bumpy on those putts.  I've been really good the whole week on them, and just hit something halfway and took a boggle and missed on the right.   
 Q.  And heading into tomorrow, do you think you're too far behind now?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I'm probably too far behind, but I think a really good round tomorrow can get me a good finish for the week.  Goal was sort of to get to 5, 6 today, and then another low one tomorrow.  So 2-under, that's quite a long way back.  I'm going to need the wind to pick up strongly if I want to have a chance from where I am.   
 Q.  Do you think teeing off where you'll be tomorrow, a long way from the leaders, will be an advantage if the conditions change?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: It can be an advantage.  We saw on Friday it can be a disadvantage if you play early.  Anything can happen.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT