ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 29, 2018
Louis Oosthuizen
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Louis, talk about the 68.  You guys got hot there 10, 11, 12, and 13.
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, we were sort of needed -- we were level and we felt like we played okay, you know, not really bad; just made a few putts.  Nice one on 10 and 12, and, you know, hit it close on 13.
But, you know, I think on Friday, to have this finish, I think we would both be really happy.
Q. You came out strong.  Two of the best players in the world.  You know each other's games so very well.  Why is this alternate shot such a tough format?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: You know, you just never really get into a rhythm.  You know, Louis, came to me on No. 12, he said to me he's only hit two iron shots for the whole day.  I said to him, Well, I've only hit 2-putt.
So all of sudden it's your turn to start hitting iron shots and putts, you don't have a feel for the rhythm, the round, which makes it difficult.
Q. This is its only team competition on the PGA TOUR.  Louis, do you like it?  Would you like to see more?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Definitely.  I always say Presidents Cup week is my favorite week of the year.  We never have enough team events.  World Cup is team event, but this is great.
You know, I'll definitely come back to this.
Q. Charl, a chance you and Louis could team up again?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Yeah, for sure.
Q. Louis, after nine consecutive pars on the front nine, four consecutive birdies to start the back nine.  As the pressure tightened up, how did guys you improve your play?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: No, we just --I think we just didn't really give ourselves a lot of birdie opportunities on the front.  We made really good pars, but then made nice putt on 10.  We had two putts for birdie on 11 and made another one on 12, hit it close on 13, so we sort of got a little rhythm.
We needed two more.  We were fighting.  It was tough on the greens.  It was really crusty and then firm and fast.  You had to have your speed really good today.
Q. There is a lot of talk about the drama and the pressure in this format.  In the final round, how did that affect or impact you guys?
CHARL SCHWARTZEL: I think it's pretty similar to normal.  That's how I felt.  The hard part about playing foursomes on the last day is you don't really get into a rhythm and a feel for the golf course.
On the 13th hole was only the third time I putted, and was (indiscernible.)  So I had no real feel for the greens.  And similarly, only two iron shots (indiscernible) No.  12.  It just worked out that way.
I think that makes it difficult.  Normal pressures I think applies this week, too.
Q. Louis, the overall takeaway on this team event for you?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I love it.  Obviously played last year, and I really enjoy this.  Got to have more of these.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT