WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 21, 2018
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. It's a long week, but it's nice to start out with a win, I'm sure?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I mean, 3-up, five to go, cruising sort of.  I had one bad shot on 14 and misread the par putt to go 2-up.  Then Jason nearly holed his second on 15 and made eagle on 16 which you can't really do anything against.  I got fortunate on 17 that he was going first actually.  I probably would have hit the same club as him and ended up going with a shorter club.  And I think I had a pretty good shot on 18.  I think it's my first time playing 18 if I'm not mistaken.  I didn't know where the line was with the tee.
Q. You got three matches and you have to win one and a half of them, if not two.  How nice is it to get that first win so you can -- not freewheel, but you are not behind the eight ball?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: It's tough when you lose the first one.  You are sort of relying on the other guys for something to happen.
I was in a similar spot last year where I actually lost my second round.  To get the first one in, sort of gives you momentum going into tomorrow.
Q. The last thing you want to do come Friday is having to depend on somebody halving a match or losing a match?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Like last year, I beat Matsuyama and Ross Fisher beat Furyk for me and Ross to be, you know, in the playoff.  Sort of the whole time you are looking at their scores, what they are doing.
So I think just focus tomorrow and try and get a win and see if it's all up to me on Friday.
Q. You played in several Presidents Cups and obviously the singles matches are the single matches.  Does that help?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I think it helps.  A lot of times everyone thinks they need to attack really hard the whole time.  I sort of try a different method by not making bogeys, not giving the guy all that he needs to make a birdie to get the hole from me.  That's been working for me.  I sort of try the mentality of not making a bogey.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT