BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
August 28, 2020
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. How would you characterize that round?
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, I mean, I played good.  There was a few loose shots, but every time I missed the green I hit decent chips and made the putts for pars.  Around a golf course like this you rely a lot on your short game.  You have a lot of those inside-eight-footers for pars, and just really played decent.  When I came in the first four or five holes I hit the ball really good and gave myself a few good opportunities for birdie, but it's tough on the greens, so we'll see what the weekend is like.
 Q. How difficult is this test of golf?
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I mean, this is right up there.  This is probably the closest if not the same as playing a U.S. Open.  I think with the U.S. Open being a few weeks out, this is a great preparation.
 Q. Is it kind of weird to have a week like you had last week where 30-under won and then you come here and right now unless someone gets to 2-under, 1-under may be leading this tournament through 36 holes?
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, I mean, it is weird.  It's weird where 30-under won last week and probably 1-under might win this week.  You know, it is different, but this is the type of golf course I needed for what I must do.  I need to finish, I think, fourth on my own or better to get through to Atlanta, and that would have been really difficult on a golf course like last week.
 Q. So you feel like this type of golf course helps your quest to get to East Lake since you have to finish so high?
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   Yeah, just -- look, this can go really south on you quickly.  You can shoot 6-, 7-over on this golf course very quickly.  But if you really stick into it and really just play middle of greens and lag those putts, you can make a lot of pars around a golf course like this, and you're not going to lose spots if you're making pars.
 Q. Are you more comfortable on a tournament like this where par is a good score or more kind of like last week?
 LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN:   I'm a little bit more comfortable on a golf course like this, you know, just where if you're really patient and just do your thing, you can do good on a week like this.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT