THE PRESIDENTS CUP
September 27, 2017
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. After all you've been through with Nick, is there a sense of wanting to win this for him?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Definitely.  He's been my captain for the three that I've played in, and he's become more as a friend than a captain.  We've been the last six years really close down in Palm Beach and fishing together and going on hunts together and stuff like that.  You know, he's done so much for this team.  He's put a lot of effort and hard work into the three Presidents Cups that he's been involved with, and you know, I think as a team, we all know that and we all want to, you know, to give him that Cup.
I mean, we're going to have our hands full this year.  We've got probably one of the most in-form U.S. teams to beat.  But I think our guys has really stepped up and guys are playing well, as well.
Q. When you're home with Gracey, are you all partners there?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: We like to play against each other, even though it's just for ten or 20 dollars, it's a lot of fun.  It's more about who wins than anything else.  The two of us always give each other a hard time.
We've got to get off to a good start.  We've got it make the guys behind us see that the guys in front of playing well, and that's always been the tough part.  The U.S. has always come out so strong, and this year being on home turf, it's going to be even extra hard to do that.  But I think the momentum in this format is so much, and if you see your teammates play well, you know, that really gets you doing.  And even if you're behind, you really just grind that little bit more.
Q. Do you think the slow start two years ago, is that more to do with maybe being tentative in the first session than the actual format?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I think two years ago we did better in the foursomes than we did in the better-ball.  You know, that was our problem in Muirfield in 2013.  I thought we did a great job in 2015 in the foursomes.  But you know, we're always going to have that -- you don't play that much with the guys.  We do it every two years, and the U.S. I think will always have that advantage because they play evident year, this team event.
I think anything can happen on 18 holes, but the first four or five holes is always the crucial ones in match play.
Q. What do you think of the pairings?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I think it's going to be really exciting.  There's great pairings.  We're happy with the way it went.  You know, like I say, 18 holes, match play, anything can happen.  The guys that might be favorite to win the match can get a whipping, and the other way around.  You've got to see how it's going to play out, but I think from our side, we're very happy with the pairings.
Q. What were the last two days like in terms of preparation for the start of the event?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Today wasn't really -- didn't do a lot.  Did a little bit of chipping and putting.  A few guys went out and played nine holes.  I just did a few holes.  Yesterday we did most of the stuff.  I played nine holes on Sunday, as well.  I think everyone's ready.  You just want to take a little bit of a rest today and just chill, because tomorrow when it starts, it's going to be a real grinder and long week.  You want to go in fresh tomorrow.
Q. What do you think of the golf course and what have you learned in the practice rounds?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: You know, it's probably going to be on the guy that hits the iron shots into the greens.  You know, you're going to have a few funky pins out there and a few run-offs.  The guy that hits the most irons has probably got to be a bit on his game for the day.  That being said, you've got to putt him in the fairway first.
In foursomes, I think keeping the ball in play is massive.  You know, in better-ball, you have the opportunity; you can go a bit more aggressive if your partner is safely somewhere.  But foursomes, both guys, really have to play well.
Q. What do you think your strategy will be tomorrow in match play, will you hit first?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: We'll definitely be hitting first to the greens.  Brooks and Daniel are both really long hitters.  That can play to our advantage but again, we've got to hit good shots to putt a little bit of pressure on them.  But yeah, they have both had a great season; Brooks obviously winning the U.S. Open.  We are going to have our hands full, me and Branden.
Q. You two playing together again, that has to be a gelling feeling.
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: We've been playing, eight of us has been playing for three years now, for the third Presidents Cup together.  It might be less.
Yeah, we've been coming to feel like a real team.  It's a pity we can only do it every second year, but yeah, I think the guys that are on the team now, a lot of the guys will make it in two Years TIME again.  You really have that team feeling going around.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT