THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 24, 2017
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Pleased with that?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Around here, any score under par is good.  Good way to start the tournament.  But you need to drive it really well to put it in good position.  I think if you do that, you can score around here a little bit.
Q. What's the most challenging part of this golf course, off the tee, or the greens?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: The greens, you know it's quite slopey, and poa annua, especially late in the afternoons, it's a little bumpier than normal.  You've got to give yourself putts, and it starts on the tee box.  You miss the fairways here, you're not going to get to the greens.  You have to drive it well.
Q. Let's get to the important stuff, lip syncing, where did that come from?  How did that happen?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: The kids in the plane was a little like all over the place and I thought I need to do something to try and calm them down.  I had a little speaker out there, and you know, put it on full volume, and next thing, that song came up.
Yeah, started doing that, and I didn't think it was going to be that big.
Q. Is there any other songs that you feel comfortable doing the lip sync to, like that well?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I don't know.  It was a sort of in the moment thing.  I'm not going to say yes because then you're going to creep it out of me.
Q. And if you had to do karaoke in front of people, which means sync for real, what song would you sync?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: You won't ever see that, don't worry.
Q. If you had one song.
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I've got to go with one song because at least I know the words.  I'll go with anything I know the words.
My wife now and then puts something on -- but yeah, my wife Tweeted it out there and I definitely didn't expect that big a response.
Q. Changing gears a little bit, Jason Day was up here earlier about building team spirit on The Presidents Cup, and you're sort of one of the leaders on the team now.  How do you do that?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: We are a good bunch of guys.  I think seven of us, it's our third year together playing in the event.  So you know, we know each other off the golf course pretty good.  It's more to get the five new guys, to get them a little motivated.  But you know, once that week starts, everyone is in such good spirits.  You sort of just, you step up your game.  You do it for each other and it's just a massive week.  It's a pity we can't have more weeks like that.
Q. Has Nick spoken to you about going out with Byeong Hun An?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I think we'll probably go out foursomes.  I don't know about better-ball.  I mean, we played pretty good last time in Korea, so we're probably going to have another shot together.  But yeah, it's all on what the other pairings are going to look like.  If he has to split us, he's got to do it.
Q. Geoff Ogilvy was saying, given you were so close last time in Korea, is this the best chance the International Team has of winning in the last ten years?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, all of us, or most of us play over here.  Although it's going to be on U.S. soil, that's where we play most of our golf.  You know, I think it's going to be a great opportunity for us.
Everyone is really, really pumped up for this one.
Q. You've been involved in the FedExCup Playoffs a number of times.  How would you rate a Playoff event like this one compared to a regular-season event?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I think for me, where I am at the moment, it's probably a normal one.  I think probably for guys close to 100, it's going to be a bit different week for them.
It's a great opportunity to have a really good first one.  You can jump up quite a bit and sort of get good momentum going into the last three.  But you know, it's a tough golf course.  You need to hit the fairways and greens, and you know, it's a big course.  So we'll see a few guys out there this week bombing drives.
Q. Are you pleased?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, especially with my irons.  I felt everything I tried with them, I controlled it pretty good.  Rolled the ball nicely.  A few things on my driver, a few shapes I tried didn't work, but all in all, 3-under around this track, first round is a good score.
Q. How tough is it out there?  It's beautiful but it looks really, really hard.
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, you need to drive it well.  It is big fairways, but you still need to drive it well, especially the front nine, to give yourself close to mid-irons into the greens.  I think the back nine, you can make a little bit of scoring.
Q. The fact that you haven't seen these greens, you had some good looks, and looked like maybe they fooled you a little bit and wasn't going the way you thought it was?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, late afternoon on poa annua, that gets you a little bit.  There's a few footprints out there here and there or a bump or two, but out there in the morning, we'll have new greens and an opportunity to try and make a few more.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT