PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2017
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How is the arm?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: It's fine.  You know, I wasn't it wasn't hurting at all.  I didn't feel like it was painful or anything.  It was just it got tight really quickly.  Sort of when you close your hand like that, I could feel it all over.  I thought it would be good to get the physio and release it.  He just did a proper release of it.  There was no pain.  I could hit my shots no worries.   
 Q.  Did you see the root?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I saw something.  It was very close to my ball.  I didn't want to go and feel or do anything.  The top, I was going pretty steep on it.  Took a big chunk out of it.  Bent my 8-iron properly.  I had a full 8-iron on 16 and 17.  So couldn't hit them and had to go with 7-irons.  Those aren't holes you want to go with different clubs.   
 Q.  You got the club back on 11.  Was it still bent?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I stood on 9 and that was the first I used it.  I looked down and I could see it was completely bent.  I tried to fix it, but obviously I'm not good at that.  I didn't it a very good shot.  I got it to the club and they tried to fix it, but it was just right in the hozzle where the shaft goes in.  Ping is already building me a new one and getting it to me.   
 Q.  How comfortable are you only being two strokes back for the final round?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: It's the type of golf course you don't have to go out and make birdies.  You just need to keep everything together.  If I can have a solid start tomorrow and get to the 14th hole and see where I am, anything can happen from 14.   
 Q.  Is the arm going to be a problem?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: It feels fine.  It's a little tight at the top.  I will have some good work on it.  Ice it a bit.  I didn't have any pain playing.   
 Q.  What happened on the first putt on 16?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I hit it piece of grass behind my ball.  I was thinking about that too much.  I should have -- I have been practicing those shots with a 5-wood, actually just going through that fringe and I thought it would be fine and then thinking too much of that and it came out short.  It was a mental mistake on my side.  I can't do that tomorrow.  You can't give away bogeys like that.   
 Q.  If the tournament comes down to the Green Mile tomorrow, just how aggressive can you be there?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: You know, today for me 17 was a horrible feeling standing there because it was a perfect 8-iron, just a solid swing and I couldn't hit one.  9-iron was bringing water in play.  I had to adjust with a 7-iron trying to hold up a cut shot which is not ideal on that hole.  You can go in three behind and you can still win it with those holes.   
 Q.  When it comes to majors, what are the key factors to getting over the finish line, landing one of golf's biggest prizes?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Just be patient the whole day tomorrow.  I think everyone is going to maybe a few mistakes out there.  It's that type of golf course where you can easily make bogeys.  Just patience and play yourself in a position with four or five holes to go and take it from there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT