U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
June 17, 2017
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Obviously the double leaves bad taste, but all in all, to go out and shoot what you shot today, are you content with the round?  You got yourself right in it.
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I mean, I played well.  Obviously a par, birdie finish and 7-under is going to be a lot closer to the leaders.  But it's soft conditions.  The guys are going to shoot low.  I can see the guys in the afternoon shooting that score easily.  If you just hit it decent off the tee, I feel 2-under should be like a par round today.
Greens are great, they're running great again, and you can attack it.  We've got to hit it straight off the tee.  We all know what happens in the fescue.
Q. Coming into the third round seven or eight off the lead, and you put yourself in position where, like you said, they could go low today and they could still be in that gap, but good day's work out there?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, it was good.  Before yesterday I thought if I could shoot 4- or 5-under, I'm going to be in an outside chance for tomorrow, but a really low one.  But I was in a good spot to really shoot a low one today.  7-, 8-under, just didn't have a good finish.  But, like I say, you've got to hit it good off the tee.
I made a mistake on 17 hitting it into the fescue, and ended up three-putting for a double.  But I'm happy with the way I played.  I made great putts, I hit good shots, and it's just one of those bad finishes that I'll forget quickly.
Q. It's soft out there?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, it's soft.  You can really attack it.
Q. When you see the leaderboard as it was last night, nobody has won a major.  Does that stick in your mind?  You've been through this?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Majors are won on the last nine holes on a Sunday.  If you're within four shots on the Sunday at a major playing the back nine, you've got a chance of winning it.  That's when all the mental games start playing in your head.  The guys are playing really good golf.  I've watched them.
Rickie's playing good.  He just had a stint there with a few bogies.  But I think there will be a lot of people in contention with nine holes to go tomorrow, and then that's where, I think, a lot of experience is going to come in.  If you have a guy up there that's won tournaments before and has been in the situation, he's obviously got a bit of advantage.
Q. What about through 16, you're doing everything right, you're getting up-and-down, you're hitting the ball and putting the gash in it, still making par.  But were you as surprised with anyone on 17?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: No, I mean, four yards right with that tee shot and I'm down the fairway.  I probably took it on too much.  Should have just gone the safe route.  But that was the way I was feeling.  I was really swinging it well and thought I could give it a little bit more on the tee shot and have 9-iron maybe into the green.  Then you're looking at going to 7-under.  But it's what makes this game great.  You do that, think ahead, and you walk off with a 6.
So I'll forget about it.  That happens.  I would have loved to be 6-, 7-under, but I'm just going to have a little more work tomorrow.
Q. Going into tomorrow, what can you take away from the experience you had at Chambers Bay?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: You're never really out of it.  You can have a run with five, six birdies in a row, and all of a sudden you're in it.  Never know.  I'm probably going to be six behind teeing off tomorrow, six or maybe even more.  But it's all on how you start.  You can have a really fast start and just get up the leaderboard, and you never know what can happen.  Majors play mind tricks on you sometimes.
Q. Those last six holes (inaudible) are you expecting a few more fireworks on that back six?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, the way it's set up today and how soft it is, I wouldn't be surprised if there are quite a few low rounds.  I think Patrick is busy with a really low round at the moment.  I wouldn't be surprised if we see quite a few 65s or 66s.  You never know.  One of the leaders can do that.
14 is still two good hits to get there.  But 15 is eagle, you can make an eagle there with that pin.  I hit a 5-wood in there today.  I just pushed it a little bit.  18 was definitely reachable if you hit a good tee shot.  So definitely you can expect guys making some birdies down there.
Q. Usually you guys are hanging on at U.S. Opens.
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, it's a bit different.  It's a little friendlier than a normal U.S. Open set-up.  The rain makes it tough to make the golf course really hard.  You can really attack on your irons today.
Yesterday was getting crusty on a few greens.  If there weren't any rain, I think today was going to be a lot different.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT