THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 14, 2017
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. T-2.  Sixth appearance here.  This is your best finish here.  You got to feel pretty good.
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, all in all good week.  Would have liked to have push a little bit more at the end there.  Being four behind with four holes to go is probably not ideal.  Stupid bogeys on 13 and 14.  I had a good week, I played nicely, wasn't spot on today, but happy with a second.
Q. Do you feel like after the eagle on 11 that you were ready to give it a chance there?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I was, but I was trying to get my irons in closely, but I just couldn't get close enough.  I felt my putting was good enough to roll in a few 20 footers if I had to and I just couldn't get the ball there.
I left myself -- I hit a good second putt on 13 that missed, made bogey there.  14, that was the worst spot I could hit my second shot to try to make an up-and-down from there, it was nearly impossible.  I gave myself a good chance but I just pulled the putt.  So those two errors cost it for me.
I got to the 9th hole, I was lying in a hole, in a divot, so I had no idea what the ball was going to do, I was trying to just bump and run it up there and it came out like a bullet.  To make bogey from 50 yards out where you sort of are thinking four, at worst five.
Q. Nobody had any kind of momentum on this week.  They weren't able to string together four or five holes of scoring.  What was causing that?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Well it's just the way this golf course is.  Si Woo did great today with, whenever he was in trouble he got up-and-down with great play, both ball striking and he just outplayed everyone today.  He didn't really have to do a lot at the end there, just needed to stay in play and make pars.  That's what this golf course can do to you.  You can get ahead a few shots and the way the weather was today, the way it was so windy, it's tough to make bogeys at the end there.  If it's perfect weather like yesterday afternoon, yes, you can go, 2, 3-under the last three, four holes, but it was tough today.
Q. What were impressions of his composure?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I played with him before, he's a great player.  He's still young and he was just so calm today and he's going to be great to have as a teammate in the Presidents Cup.
Q. Talk about how the guy just never let up.  He took the lead on the 7th hole and not once did he throw a bogey in there or anything.
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, that's what, if you are on your game and playing well, that's the things you do, you up-and-down when you're in trouble, you just don't give shots away.  If you can do that around this golf course, I mean you can out score everyone.  And he played like someone that was doing it for five or six years like it was just another round of golf.  It just shows you how good a player he is and how cool and calm he is and never once did he look flustered at all.
Q. Was there one particular maybe up-and-down, because he had a few in the bunkers, was there one that kind of caught your attention?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I think the one on 14, we both were long, we both hit it in the worst spot you can and he had a horrible lie, I actually had the better lie of the two.  He hit an unbelievable chip to two feet.  I hit mine to about six feet.  I think there was, that just showed a lot of class.
He had another great, should have gone in, on the 5th hole, great chip.  He hit so many good up-and-downs today.  15, he hit a great up-and-down.  He made another one on 18.  So when you're playing well, you do those things.
Q. Can you talk about 4.  I know it was early and you felt that was a double bogey at 4, but there was still a lot of golf to be played.
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, it didn't really do anything to the way I was playing, it was just, I just hit it a little heavy.  It was a gap wedge, gap wedge, sand wedge, those clubs from a fairway bunker is always tough.  You got to pick it really clean.  And I caught it a little heavy.  It was just one of those things, but I was fine after that, I knew it was early in the round and it wasn't going to put me off.  I had a lot of golf left after that.  Again, just couldn't get myself close enough to really do something.
Q. Given how young he is, are you surprised at all how come posed he is, especially in this kind of pressure?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yes, I mean in this big a tournament, but that just shows you good champions are like that.  Great golfers are like that.  When they're under the gun, they don't get flustered.  That's what makes him a great champion.
Q. Were you that polished at 22, 23 years old?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I don't even know where I was at 22.  22, I think it was my second year out, I was actually my first year out on the European Tour.  I was definitely not -- I was still probably a bit of a hot head and throwing clubs or something.  Yeah, it took me a bit longer to be good at golf.
Q. You wouldn't mind having him as a partner?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: He'll be great.  He'll be a great asset to the team and hopefully all of us can keep this going and get the team nicely shaped up for September.
Q. Between now and the U.S. Open what are you going to do?  What are you going to be working on?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: No, I'm going to do the things I've been doing.  Again, the weekend was tough around this golf course.  Yes, I went 2-over, which was disappointing for the weekend, but it was tough.  You could have easily shot 3-, 4-over and I'm happy with the way my game is, I'm going to just keep on playing.  I have two more before the U.S. Open, so hopefully I can have a few good weeks before then, but I'm happy with the way my game is.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT