WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 22, 2017
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Some opening comments.  Nice to come out on top today.  You've had a great record here at the match play.  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, the first round is always a little nervous.  Just getting a win the first game is important.  Played nicely.  I was very solid.  Didn't make any bogeys, just kept in play.  Gave myself loads of birdie chances.  It was a good day.   
 Q.  Having played Presidents Cup a bunch of times and things like that, does that help knowing some of the basics and strategy and stuff like that?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I think most of your amateur golf was or a lot of the amateur golf I played was match play and a lot of events, and it helps you if you've done all that.  It's just not giving away holes is the main thing and trying to stay in play and make your opponent work for winning a hole.   
 Q.  How does this course suit your game?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I like it.  It's really windy.  The front nine is tough to figure out which way the wind is from.  A few second shots into greens it swirls around.  All in all, I like the golf course.  I hope it stays windy like this.   
 Q.  Why do you think match play suits you so well?  Or this event?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I don't know.  I just try and -- I think it's the one on one aspect of it, where my biggest goal in match play is not to make a bogey.  I think everyone always says you got to make a lot of birdies.  I believe you don't make any bogeys, you are going to have some holes where you can win with pars and give yourself more opportunities for birdies, even if it's longer ones.  If you are putting nicely, you can make a few of them.  I just today went out and tried to hit as many fairways and greens as possible.   
 Q.  As windy as it is around the golf course, what was the most challenging hole out there because to have wind?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I think the wind on 11 was a little -- wasn't sure if it was down off the right or off the left and ended up just going straight, straight at the pin.  It's just straight downwind.  Holes like that where the water comes in play, if you get it wrong, it can cost you.  I think it's always you got to trust your wind chart and sometimes it's difficult to do.   
 Q.  Jordan Spieth lost to Tanihara.  What does that say about this?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Anything can happen in match play.  I mean, if you are playing against a guy on the day that's making five, six birdies, it doesn't matter who it is, you are going to have your hands full.  If you have a day where you are slightly off, especially windy conditions like these, you will have a tough time against your opponent.  I think it's a format where you can't predict what's going to happen.  Anything can happen on the day.  But luckily for him, he's still in it.  He's got two days left and he could still go through.   
 Q.  Do you know much about Tanihara?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: No, I don't.  I need to probably talk to them a bit more because we might be teammates at Presidents Cup.  But no, unfortunately I don't.   
 Q.  Obviously Hideki has done well?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Hideki is one of our top guys.  He's a great asset on any team.   
 Q.  Do you see him as a future winner of a major, Hideki?  Do you think he's got that game.  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I think so.  I've played with him a few times.  When he's on song, especially with his irons, it's a display that is just brilliant to stand and watch the way he hits it.  When he gets his putting roll as well, it's fun walking around and seeing him play.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT