NEDBANK GOLF CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY GARY PLAYER
November 12, 2016
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: It was a tough day again.  The wind was even worse than yesterday.  I played well.  Would have been a lot calmer right now if I was one behind.  But I played nicely.   
I can't really look at the last two greens.  I got the pace on both of the first putts wrong and a few good putts on the second one.  It's not nice finishing like that, but I'm hitting it well.  So I'm looking forward to tomorrow.   
 Q.  Does this mean you are boiling, simmering on the inside or are you taking it on the chin?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: No, I mean, I played well.  I think in that windy condition, I would have taken 8-under at the beginning of the day.  But I hit the ball really good, especially down the stretch at the end.   
I just got the pace wrong on 17 on the first putt and that made me scared on the one on 18.  That happens.  But I'm putting beautifully.  I'm looking forward to tomorrow.  Three behind is a little bit more work.  One behind would have been nicer.  But I'm going to see if I can keep it together tomorrow and fire at a few pins.   
 Q.  You have seen this place in all sorts of conditions.  Have you ever really seen it with the wind swirling like this?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: No.  Every year -- I'm thinking it was a little bit like that last year, but it was swirling today.  It was so difficult to judge the wind, to get right.   
That second shot on 17 was the toughest shot I think I've had all season.  It was right in between numbers for me and I had no idea where the wind was.  It's difficult.  If it's going to be windy like this again tomorrow, the stretch is going to be really difficult.   
 Q.  Are you feeling the support?  You are still positive?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I'm very positive.  I'm playing well, like I said.  Looking forward to tomorrow.  I'll be watching the rugby this afternoon.  Hopefully we get the win.  I'll be fine tomorrow.   
 Q.  Give us an indication of how tough it was out there today.  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: It was difficult.  It was blowing all over the place.  The shorter shots were even worse than the longer ones.  More difficult getting a nice flight on them.  It's gusty and tough, tough second shots on a lot of par-4s.   
 Q.  Did you re-think how you were going to play the course today knowing the conditions would be like this or did you alter that during the course of the round?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: No, I kept to game plan off the tee.  I had a few different second shots, you know, but I feel like I'm rolling the ball nicely.  I want to give myself a lot of birdie opportunities.  That's all you can really do out here.  But it's tough.  You need to strike the ball pretty good in windy conditions like this.  Today I was hitting it pretty well.   
 Q.  Must be pretty disappointed with the finish, but still take a lot of heart from the round overall?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I just misjudged the speed on the first one on 17 and hit a great putt on the return.  Similarly, the putt on 18, on the birdie putt, I was a bit scared I was going to do the same and left it short.  You know, half decent putt, just read it wrong.  Those things happen.  They might as well just happen early in the round.   
It's never nice finishing like that, but I'm still pretty confident for tomorrow.  I'm hitting the ball really well.   
 Q.  There are some mistakes to be made out on this course.  Three shots can disappear very quickly.  How much do you look at that when you go into the final round?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I mean, you sort of have to play your own game, especially if it's like this.  I don't think you can look at too much what the other guy is doing.  Do what you do around this golf course in windy conditions like this.   
Once you get to 15, 16, you are going to be more looking at the scoreboard, what's going on.  Do I need to go for a few more pins or not.  But the rest of the round, I'll try and put myself in a decent spot with four or five holes to go.   
 Q.  You got a great reception on the first tee today.  The crowds were pretty good all days as well.  Are you going to be relying on the support tomorrow to hopefully propel you to the victory?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, the crowds are brilliant out here.  It's so nice playing in front of your home crowd.  Looking forward to tomorrow to get a lot of support, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT