THE 145TH OPEN
July 14, 2016
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Could you describe the 11th hole?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: The 11th, it was a tough day for me I felt.  The shots that weren't that good I was short-siding myself the whole time, and around this golf course, you can't do that.  Didn't take advantage of the par-5s.  Didn't take advantage of the front nine at all.  So very disappointing turning one over, and I knew I had my hands full.  Then made a bogey on 10 and you're really thinking you might play yourself out of this tournament the first round.   
I hung in there.  Made good saves on 11, 12, and 13 for pars and then that happened on 14 making a hole-in-one on 14, which just turns your mindset and your all-around round.  Then just getting in, finishing the round off so that I can focus on tomorrow, it could have easily been 5, 6-over just the way I hung in there and get it to level par.   
 Q.  Talk about the tee shot on 17.  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, just a solid 6-iron.  I was thinking a little 5 maybe and caddie convinced me it's just a normal 9, 6-iron.  It will easily cover the front and just make a good swing.  Don't try anything hard, and I did that.  So I've got to give him a little credit for that, for talking me into that 6-iron.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: He did, he did.  When it was in there he said, oh, that's a one.  Yeah, I'm not giving him any credit (laughing), but, yeah, he did.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I mean, the wind is a little out the left more into.  But I turned it over quite nice.  I thought it was just going to be right of it, and next thing I just saw it up against the flag and obviously the crowd going crazy.  So that's always a great feeling anytime you get a 1.   
 Q.  Could you compare this to the Augusta one?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Well, that was real.  I just used all the elements.  No, both were pretty good shots.  Just Augusta, you can hit it anywhere out the right and there are a few ways to do it.  This was a proper golf hit straight in it.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I mean the positives I'll take out are 2 of the last 8 holes around this golf course.  The wind died down the last three holes, I think, so it's interesting to see this afternoon.  But I know they're expecting really strong winds tomorrow.  You need to play well on the front nine.  You need to score on this front nine because the back nine was just brutal.   
 Q.  What stopped you from scoring on the front nine?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I missed so many putts today.  I felt like I read good putts, I hit good putts, I just didn't make any.  So obviously called in my caddie to help with the lines and we both see pretty similar lines.  So I think it was one of those where you weren't just spot on seeing them, feeling the speed and things.  So I'll do a few drills this afternoon to feel my putts around the greens and maybe get the speed of it better.  But I hit good putts.  I know of one that I didn't hit a good putt, the rest were really good ones and didn't make any.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: 5, I think.  I had one as a 13-year-old and then I hit four as a professional, and one in a practise round.   
 Q.  Somebody suggested you could do it in more than two majors in one year.  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I don't know.  That would be great.  I don't know.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: No, yeah, I was trying to do the Grand Slam all at once, but I missed it (laughing).  So maybe I could get one on the PGA again.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT