U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 18, 2016
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A three-day round.  That's a heck of a round.  Just talk about it -- in unruly conditions, that's fantastic.  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I didn't have a great first round.  I felt as uncomfortable over the golf ball as I have in a while.  Couldn't really find anything on the range, as well, before the second round.  But out on the golf course, I found something in my setup that felt comfortable, started swinging a bit.  I started getting my little cut back on my driver and went from there.   
Built momentum on needing better shots and rolling a few nice putts.  I hit a few shots really close.  I was building really nice momentum, and then I had a horrible four-putt on 17 for bogey, which sort of just put all the brakes on, and then a bogey on 1; going down -- back to 5 over.   
But the last seven holes, I think, went 5 under and just had good stretches of good putts, solid shots, and giving myself opportunities.   
 Q.  What can a round like that do for your momentum in terms of -- you used the word momentum.  You've got to go out there and play again today.  What does a round like that do for you?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Just puts you back in the tournament really.  It's a lot of golf left.  The greens are definitely getting faster, and it's firming up.  I think it will be a bit of a different golf course this afternoon and definitely tomorrow.   
So, yeah, it's a good position.  Four behind going into any U.S. Open third round is a good place.   
 Q.  You went out and played almost 36 holes yesterday and have -- feel like you didn't have it together, and then all of a sudden find it, find it so much so that you go out and shoot a 65.  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: A lot of times, you're not far off in your swing and your game, and a score like 5 over looks a lot worse than it actually could have been, the way I hit it.  When you just find that something to hit fairways off the tees and go from there and give yourself birdie opportunities, you build momentum on that by giving yourself birdie putts.   
That was the key thing.  I didn't give myself a lot of birdie putts the first round.  This morning and yesterday afternoon, I definitely had a lot more chances.   
 Q.  Daniel Summerhays shot a 65 also in his second round.  He calls it the best round of his life.  Where would this one rank for you?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I mean, it's a good round for me.  It was a great round coming back after not a great first round.  I could have easily just go out there and shoot another 74 or something and be out of the tournament.   
What I learned from last year was to never really give up in a U.S. Open.  Just grind on.  Something is going to -- if something happens, then you can get yourself right back into it.  I was just grinding the whole day.   
 Q.  Take a little rest this afternoon?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Definitely.  I'm going to take a nap now.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT