MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2016
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Well played. How good is a 71 today, in your estimation?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Probably feels like 66. It was a grind. There wasn't one easy shot I had today, not even having little wedge or sand wedge in.   
I think the 7th hole is proving that. I had lob wedge in and made a good putt for bogey. So, it's just tough. It's really brutal out there.   
   
 Q. What was your goal today?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Coming in I told myself to really stick in there and try and squeeze level par, 1‑, 2‑under would be great. Knowing that the golf course is going to play that tough.   
If you can get the lead down to being six behind maybe, five behind, it would be great going into tomorrow. Obviously, Rory and Jordan are great players, so it will be interesting to see how they go today. But the golf course is really playing tough.   
   
 Q. Was there one time in particular the wind really fooled you?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: There was a few times. There was a few. You know, I think downwind is the ones that get you, because you try and get it up in the air and it sort of knuckles it down sometimes. Other times it flies forever and you're going down wind into a firm green, it's tough. I think the way it is now, a good score is probably 74, 75 you think is going to be a good score. But I made good putts. I didn't leave anything out there. So, I'm happy with my round.   
   
 Q. How good is or I guess maybe not good, but how solid does your game feel when you can do well on a day like today?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: My game feels good. I played well yesterday, I think I hit the lip six times yesterday. I had one coming back to me, I had one do a 90 degree lip out, so everything that could have gone wrong on the greens yesterday did. Not one went in.   
I think I didn't have one 1‑putt yesterday, which was really frustrating.   
So, today it was better. I felt yesterday I should have shot 1‑over at worst. So, but I'm playing good. So, hopefully tomorrow can get a good round in again.   
   
 Q. Were you thinking about the wind at all with your putting? A couple guys ‑‑  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Oh, loads of times. I mean, there was one occasion where it's a left edge putt and you're hitting it right edge because of the wind. The worst putt is the 3‑, 4‑footers with a little cross wind. The greens are so slick, there's no one easy short putt.   
So you'll see a lot of us, I think most of us are marking every little putt, because you need to just make sure the wind ‑‑ it's tough. There are not any easy putts out there.  
   
 Q. How much do you enjoy being off the golf course now and now having a chance to watch?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: It's nice being off the golf course now. But it will be interesting to see what the scoring does. Hopefully, I'm within five or six of the lead tomorrow.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT