MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 7, 2016
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Talk about your day. 
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, you could really feel the wind coming through from the 12th and 13th. I hit a 3‑iron in there today. It was a proper golf ball. And then you're sort of guessing or hoping you get the right wind on 12 there, so it's a big stretch and you always feel like you have to birdie the par‑5s. 
But I hit a good shot on 13, my second, nearly made eagle. 
15 was not the toughest or not the easiest from the lay up spot today, so that's where you feel you need to score, but you need to be careful as well. You can easily just make a bogey and that's going to put you back on the field. 

Q. Even as the ball is in the air on 12 you're holding on to your club like you're just not sure on that. 
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I was saying to the guys, you sort of tee it up with crossed fingers and then hope. And the caddie has both hands crossed, just to make sure that you got the right club. So, it's a difficult hole. It just shows you, you don't have to have a 200 yard par‑3 to be a good par‑3. 

Q. You have a great track record of playing at Amen Corner. What's been the key for you over the years playing that so well?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I think not really going at the pins, just trying to put myself somewhere on the bottom of the green where I feel like I can 2‑putt to any pin and not really being too aggressive. 

Q. Looking at your position now going into Friday and the weekend, how do you look at how aggressive or managing this course you need to be?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: It's tough to be really aggressive around here in these conditions. You can so easily play yourself completely out of the tournament. I think that you got to play it the way you see it. But hopefully you make a few 20 to 30 foot putts and get up there. I think aggressiveness is probably going to start late Sunday, if you really have a chance to win and you're two or three behind, then you're probably going to take a few more pins on than you were going to. 

Q. You mentioned the par‑5s at the beginning, saying that you feel like you need to birdie them for the most part. Do you feel that it changes at all depending upon conditions and where your game is at?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah some, even if you lay up on them, you got, you're going to have pitches of 60, 70 yard pitches where you're always want to go leave yourself within 10 foot. So, but you do feel that you need to score on those holes. I hit it well today, I was 3‑under on the par‑5s, but I made a few stupid mistakes on some of the par‑4s where I couldn't really even have a chance for par I left myself plenty of length for par. The par‑5s are key, but you need to make sure that ‑‑ you can so easily get it wrong, especially in these conditions. 

Q. How cool is the par‑3 contest?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: It's such a long week and such a tough mental week, that it's great to take that two hours and just really relax, playing with the kids and have fun with Charl and Trevor yesterday. I think it's great to just get your mind off of the tournament a little bit and then be fresh come Thursday morning.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT