WGC DELL MATCH PLAY
March 27, 2016
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: It was windy again today so the course played a bit different.  I don't do anything spectacular.  I lost a bit of focus on 8 and 9.  I was pretty solid on the day.  I've been watching the match carefully and I know I need to play really well this afternoon.   
 Q.  I thought when you lost holes 8 and 9, without your best stuff on those two holes, to respond with a birdie on 10, reestablish a 2-up lead, I thought you were in command all the way after that?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I felt pretty good.  I let one get away on 11.  So, yeah, I mean except for the putt on 1 and 8, I didn't really make anything.  I'm still hitting some good putts, but I felt it was a day where Rafa wasn't at his best today, so I needed to make sure I made pars and not give anything away like 8 and 9.   
 Q.  You're going to have almost two hours before that championship begins, no matter who you play, is that too much time, enough time, happy to have a little extra?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I'm going to take any time I've got now.  I could feel a bit stiffening up.  It was big for me all these rounds of golf.  But I'm looking forward to this afternoon.   
 Q.  Did he not play well or was that more you putting the pressure on him today?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I think he wasn't playing really well.  I lost a bit of focus on 8 and 9.  I made stupid mistakes.  Other than that I felt I hit a lot of greens, giving myself opportunities for birdies.  I could see he was not playing well.  So I just wanted to put pressure on him.   
 Q.  About losing your concentration, it's such a long week, how hard is it to keep focus?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I think in between shots it's important to switch off, think about other things.  I'm trying to walk a bit slower, trying to just take it easy.  So, yeah, it's a long week.  It's a tough week.  So I'm proud of the way I'm doing so far, feeling great.  Body feels good, so I'm looking forward to this afternoon   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT