WGC DELL MATCH PLAY
March 26, 2016
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Thanks for coming in.  Give us your thoughts on a fantastic day out there for you today.
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, it was a good day for me.  I had two tough matches today.  I was focused quite a bit this morning and wanted to give myself a good opportunity to have a shot against Jordan.
And then this afternoon, you know, a little bit probably more relaxed and played some good golf.
Q. Just curious why you say a little more relaxed?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Well, it was a huge match for me this morning.  Jordan is obviously someone who's been playing unbelievable golf and No. 1 in the world.  And I wanted to be really prepared for it this morning and stay in the moment and didn't do something silly.  I made good putts when I needed to and just played solid golf.
Obviously this afternoon was a big match, as well, but it was a lot taken off of me going into the afternoon match.  Just I felt a little bit more at ease.
Q. You have gotten to the quarters the last two years.  Did you think about that or did that weigh on you at all going into this afternoon's match?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: No, not at all.  I didn't really think about it.  Dustin is a great player, and unfortunately for him he missed quite a few opportunities for birdies on the back nine.
But I just wanted to go through to tomorrow and see if I can get into this final.  I'm playing pretty solid golf and I just need to rest up tonight and be mentally again prepared for tomorrow.  It's going to be another long day.
Q. How long have you gone with the longer putter with the claw and how did you find that?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, it's only an inch longer than what I used to use, and it's just a longer and heavier grip that I've got on there.  So I started at the back nine on Sunday at Malaysia, and I felt really comfortable over it.  I started hitting good putts.
The first tournament I did it from the start was Perth and I won that week.  And I'm just feeling like I'm reading a lot better putts the way I read them on line and I'm getting a really good roll on them.
So I've been working quite a bit on that and it seems to be working.
Q. You had that putter in Malaysia, but you switched to the claw on the back nine?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yes, the putter I actually had there was 37 inches, it was counterbalanced one.  And I changed at Valspar to a 35 inch.  I still feel a little bit more comfortable with the shorter version.
Q. When you were playing Jordan, did you feel the gallery was rooting against you and did you feel like a villain after beating him?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: No, they were great.  Luckily for me there weren't that many people this morning early on the front nine.  But the crowds have been unbelievable, and you can see they're supporting good golf and they're supporting everyone whenever you hit a good shot.  So that's always nice.  Yeah, obviously there was a few that didn't like it that I won, but sorry about that.
Q. How were the conditions out there today and how did they affect your matches?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, it was -- you know, this wind is what it's been most of the days.  You sort of have a feel for the golf course.  I'm not sure about tomorrow.  I almost think it's the opposite again, the wind.  So, yeah, this wind is the one that we are comfortable with, I think, now.  We've played it the most rounds.  The golf course sort of grows on you.  You know exactly what your lines is, you know what to do off the tees and I think you get more and more comfortable the more you play around here.
Q. How much do you know about Rafa?  Secondly, I think you may have gotten some treatment in between the rounds, can you talk about that?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I know Rafa quite well.  Been on the European Tour also a while.  Great guy.  Great player, makes a lot of birdies.  Tomorrow will be a tough match.  I need to play really well.
And, no, I just wanted to give myself some time if I needed treatment between the rounds, but I was fine.  I had a quick bite to eat and off I went and I was fine out there.  Body feels great.  Just a little tired.
Q. If you can forget that this is a match play tournament, how would you rate just the degree of difficulty of this golf course compared to the other PGA event places?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I think you'll play it different than stroke play.  There was definitely a few lines you wouldn't do off the tee.  So I think you'll play it a little different.  It's a tough golf course.  But the wind makes it really tricky, especially if you get down to the bottom of the back nine.  You need to hit proper golf shots to take the wind out of play.
Q. With the way you've been playing in recent weeks, with a victory in Perth and playing so well this week, how pleased and how excited are you also with the way you're playing of late?
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yeah, I've been playing well for a while and just not -- I needed a win to sort of just get everything going again.  And it was two years since my previous one.  The win in Perth meant a lot to me just to get the year going on that note.  Doral, the week straight after, was my first PGA event of the season or of 2016.  Mindset and confidence-wise, it's great to go into a year like that.
SARAH GWYNN: Thank you and good luck tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT