COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 27, 2016
Louis Oosthuizen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What most satisfied you with that round?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Probably the bogey-free.  I was two occasions where I looked like I was going to make bogeys but recovered well, and the rest was just played pretty solid.  Good ball-striking today, and yeah, I made one or two putts.   
 Q.  Now as Open Champion, runner-up in The Open last year, as well.  When you see conditions when you wake up in the morning, do you start licking your lips?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Not quite, but I like playing in windy conditions.  Today it was fair I think.  I think the whole day is going to stay like this, which is good.  But they are expecting some horrible winds, so then it gets really difficult.   
 Q.  What is it about this place that really ticks the box for you?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I don't know, I like playing in the desert.  I always play well around here, and just like the golf course.  Like I said, I like the type of shot-making, grainy greens.  It brings back a lot of good memories.   
 Q.  The last five years, four times you've won your first start of the calendar year, which is fairly incredible.  Why is it you think you get off to such a fast start?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I think I should take more eight-week breaks.  Have to say well rested.   
 Q.  Thoughts on a wonderful start like this, in terms of the score at least.  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Bogey-free, you always take a lot out of it.  I think the three of us were pulling each other the whole way.  We played really well.  Hit some good shots.  The wind was pretty similar the whole day, or the whole morning, and I think it's going to probably be the same this afternoon.  But we'll see what it does tomorrow.  I think we are expecting some horrible winds tomorrow.   
 Q.  I take it it's nothing like as strong as we feared it might be today, still challenging, isn't it.  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: Yes, it's definitely still -- it's a lot of cross-wind shots.  So there's a lot where you're not sure if it's in or a little down, so you need to have that wind map out and handy.  All three of us hit the ball really well today.   
 Q.  With your pedigree, you relish it, don't you?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I like windy conditions.  You know, if it gets really strong, then it gets difficult.  I think patience is the big thing when it really blows hard.  But today was just a good wind, and a lot of flighted shots, which I like.   
 Q.  Is there a particular reason why you always seem to start a new season so well?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I don't know, the only thing I can think of is it's the only time I can have proper time away from golf, six to eight weeks, and not really touching a golf club.  Just having a good break and a good holiday, and looks like we need to do that more.   
 Q.  Just freshen up and get it out of the mind and not have that regular drill you're always going through?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: I think it's more wanting to come back just to play and be back on the golf course.  I think a lot of times, you lose that by having a too hectic schedule, so the break in December was really nice.   
 Q.  I heard you mention the word physio, so, need some?  Is health an issue?  
LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN: No, a bit of tender loving care I think, TLC we call it.  No, my body feels great.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT