BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 10, 2009
Stan Heath
Dominique Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Seton Hall 68
  USF  54

 JOHN PAQUETTE: Questions, please?

 Q. Stan, if you can just talk about Hazell in the second half. He's one of those guys you can't leave open like that.
 COACH STAN HEATH: He's a really difficult guy to guard. He's improved his game from last year. He was more just a spot-up shooter and guy who can hit shots in transition. 
 This year he really moves well without the ball and he's able to put the ball on the floor and do things. You know, once when Chris picked up some fouls and Dominique obviously was trying to play both ends of the court so it's hard. It created a big problem for us trying to slow him down. He took advantage of that and that was, I think a big plus for Seton Hall being able to win the game.

 Q. You talked a little bit about the second half how shots didn't fall. What do you think that the other team was able do that you guys really weren't able to counter?
 COACH STAN HEATH: They turned up the pressure. Couple things happened. They picked us up and just straight man and really made us bring the ball up the floor under some heat. I thought that was -- the initial part of it. 
 The second part was when he picked up his fourth foul and had to leave the game, when Chris did that, it forced Dominique to solely be the sole ball handler and it's hard when you're the guy who has to initiate your offense and you're the guy who has to finish the offense. 
 That was the tough role he was placed in and I thought that that was a factor for us to make a run and us maybe having a harder time scoring the ball.
 The first time around we did a much better job of being a scoring factor on the block with our big guys and this game, you know, they did a little bit better job and we missed some shots. We never really established the inside game like we wanted to.

 Q. Dominique, if you can just talk about what this does in terms of setting things for next year, being here, going through this whole process. 
 DOMINIQUE JONES: I think it was a good experience for the younger guys, you know, this is my first time being here, you know and I kind of had butterflies at first, you know, so I could only imagine how most of the other people on the team felt.
 I think that us coming in here next year, we'll have a feeling for how it is out there, you know, we'll come out here and be comfortable. We'll be more effective on the court. 
 JOHN PAQUETTE: Do we have any other questions? Any other questions? Thank you USF.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT