NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: GIANTS v PHILLIES
October 16, 2010
Charlie Manuel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







San Francisco Giants 4
  Philadelphia Phillies 3

 THE MODERATOR: We'll take questions for Charlie. 

 Q. Normally Roy doesn't get too excited or up and down when he's on the mound, but he looked like he was walking off the mound really on that ball to Burrell before he doubled. Is that unusual to see him thinking he has a strikeout there, and what did you see on that pitch?
 CHARLIE MANUEL: I don't know if he thought he had him struck out or not. I didn't really see that. I was probably watching the hitter. I didn't see how much he -- how much emotion he put into it.

 Q. What did you think about the pitch?
 CHARLIE MANUEL: I thought the pitch was close. At the same time, I felt like the ball Burrell hit, I didn't know how good he hit it, but it was a big hit.

 Q. The Giants have had some success against Roy this year and in his career. Is there anything you're seeing specifically that they're doing at the plate different from other teams to get to them?
 CHARLIE MANUEL: Yeah, basically, I felt like with -- Cody Ross hit two home runs off of him. During the sixth we had two outs all of a sudden they got two hits. Burrell got a big hit and Uribe rolled off a ball and knocked in a run. I felt like that actually, they tacked on some runs and made the score 4-1. And outside that, he pitched pretty good. I mean, like, when you're aggressive and you're up there swinging and you bear down, I mean, he's going to give up some runs sometimes. 
 Can he pitch better than that against them? Yeah, of course he can. But tonight, you know, like, they hit some balls good on him.

 Q. I realize it's only four games in the playoffs, but the Phillies have not had a lot of sustained offensive innings, how concerned are you with that?
 CHARLIE MANUEL: I'm concerned with that. I think we struck out 12, 13 times tonight. I think 13. You know, I think, yeah, I think we need to hit better. We gotta hit better and we have to score more runs, of course.

 Q. How did you feel about the approach against Lincecum? And are you more concerned about Jimmy maybe than anybody? He's really struggled throughout the post-season so far. 
 CHARLIE MANUEL: We came -- I felt like we came out in the early part of the game, first three innings we hit some balls hard. And Victorino led the game off, hit a ball hard. And then we got a couple of doubles. And then seemed like Lincecum, he hung in there and he battled and he pitched pretty good. I felt like we had a chance there in the third, but we couldn't get a big two-out hit.

 Q. How concerned are you that you might be running out of time for Jimmy Rollins for him to get back to 100 percent at the plate?
 CHARLIE MANUEL: I'm running out of time with Jimmy Rollins? 

 Q. How concerned --
 CHARLIE MANUEL: How concerned? I want Jimmy Rollins to hit, of course. I mean, you know, I'm very concerned about him hitting. I want him to hit. But I also think that we have to get him hitting, too. We need to try to get him hitting. What's he got, 0-for-13, 14. 
 That's happened before. It happens quite a bit.

 Q. In this two-year run, three-year run you've had I think this is the first time you've lost the first game of a series. How does that change the attention you pay coming from behind, which you haven't had to do?
 CHARLIE MANUEL: How does that change? I look at it this way: How do we play? What do we talk about? We can't do nothing about right now. We've got to come out and win tomorrow's game. 
 We've been playing that way for the last four years. I mean, that's kind of how we play. That's what we talk about. And, look, I don't think we can do nothing to bring this game back tonight. It's a loss. So we come out tomorrow, and we come out and play in that moment, try to win that game. That's what we've got to do. That's about the only thing we can do.

 Q. Knowing Roy, do you think he would be more willing now or more eager to come back and pitch on three days' rest? 
 CHARLIE MANUEL: I don't want to think about that yet. I'm not even thinking about that.

 Q. Not to belabor Jimmy, but he likes to lead off. Might you consider switching things up, down one now? Because your top two guys in the batting order are not hitting for average either. 
 CHARLIE MANUEL: I'll think about that. I'll think about it. Tonight I'll think about a whole lot of things. 
 We need to put together more offense. But like we've had trouble - basically we got off to a good start during the season, but three weeks or whatever, the first month, we've been sputtering kind of ever since. But at the same time we're capable of doing it. It's up to us to do it. 

 Q. We're talking about the hitting and you want to see the ballclub hit more, but is it a matter of them, of your players being just a little more patient, a little more disciplined at the plate? How do you see it?
 CHARLIE MANUEL: How do I see it? What I always say, baseball's a funny game. That's how I see it. 
 If I go in there tell them something, if I could tell them something that's going to help them hit and things like that, believe me I will. They're definitely trying. I mean, sometimes that's the way it goes. And they're going to come out and they're going to try hard tomorrow. Maybe they'll try even harder. Maybe too hard. I don't know.
 But at the same time, we've got to come out. We've got to be ready to play and go up there and try to get a good ball, and hit. We've got to have a plan against a guy pitching, and we've got to make them throw strikes and see if we can do better than we did tonight. That's how I look at it, you know? 

 Q. Speaking about the guy you're facing tomorrow, you've had some problems with Sanchez this year. How are you going to change up the game plan with him?
 CHARLIE MANUEL: Get more hits. Score more runs. How are we going to change -- this guy's got good stuff. He's a good pitcher. He has a good slider. And he's got good stuff. And we gotta make him -- almost kind of like Lincecum, we've got to make him -- definitely when he gets ahead of us in c, we've got to make him bring the ball up. 
 But we've got to try to get up there, get good balls to hit and see if we can't put some balls in play and score some runs on him. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT