NL DIVISION SERIES: REDS v PHILLIES
October 6, 2010
Charlie Manuel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Charlie Manuel.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about Polanco's injury, how he hurt himself, and what landed to today taking him out of the lineup?   
 CHARLIE MANUEL: Yesterday, Polly had some stiffness in his middle back, soreness and stiffness. And today when he came to the ballpark, it was probably even worse. He came in and told me that he couldn't bend over. He said it hurt when he bent over, he said it hurt when he turned left or right. And he said he didn't think he was going to be able to play.  
  
  Q. Do you know how he hurt himself?   
 CHARLIE MANUEL: No, I don't.  
  
  Q. How concerned are you that he might not be able to play the series or do you think he'll be ready to go by Friday?   
 CHARLIE MANUEL: I'm concerned. But at the same time, I think we've got to see that we've got to know more about it like how it's going to be treated and everything.  
  
  Q. Could you just talk about the situation where Polanco can't play? Just how valuable of a time that Wilson Valdez saw, and how much confidence you have in him in a game like this?   
 CHARLIE MANUEL: Wilson Valdez, he's played second, short, third for us. He's got -- he does have the most at-bats he's got in the big leagues in his career. And he's had a big season for us. He's a tremendous defensive player. He's got a great arm. He can run, and he's got some big hits for us.   
 He's done a tremendous job. He's been a big -- if we didn't have him, I don't know where we'd go, because he's been a tremendous value to our team.  
  
  Q. How tough was the decision about your leadoff hitter and how much did the Polanco injury really play a part in it?   
 CHARLIE MANUEL: First lineup I had, Jimmy was not going to lead off. When I took Polanco out, of course, I moved Jimmy up in the leadoff hole.  
  
  Q. Shane a couple times this year has hit right-handed against right-handed pitchers with some funky stuff. He's not planning on doing that today, do you know?   
 CHARLIE MANUEL: I don't think he's planning on doing it against Volquez. The only guy he hit against was Dickey. He threw a knuckleball, and Dickey's knuckleball always comes in on right-handers. It goes away on lefties.  
  
  Q. What are your trainers calling this injury? Is it a back spasm, did he pull something, strain something?   
 CHARLIE MANUEL: They'll have to give you some kind of diagnosis on it. Actually, he, just like I said, yesterday he had some stiffness and soreness in the middle part of his back. And then today when he came in, it was even worse.   
 He came in and talked to me, and just like what I said, he told me he didn't think he was going to be able to go. I'm sure we'll have all the information for you as soon as our trainer and our doctors, whatever, tell you.  
  
  Q. Has his back flared up at any other point in time this year or was yesterday the first time you were aware of it?   
 CHARLIE MANUEL: I think, you know what, maybe some time during the season or something he might have told me. But never his mid-back, I don't think. I think this is the first time. His elbow's the one. And every now and then, he did say something back in the summer about his shoulder at one time, but, to my knowledge, this is the first time his back's flared up.  
  
  Q. Injuries have been such a huge part of your story this year and you've always managed to persevere despite them. What is your mindset heading into Game 1 with this story line continuing?   
 CHARLIE MANUEL: My mindset is we've got a game to play, and I think the guy that we put in at third base is very capable of playing a good game. I think that we've got to go out and play like we always do.   
 I think as the game goes on, there is not too much you can do about it. You go out and you do the best possible thing that you can do, and that is go out and play as hard as you can, play in that moment and win today's game.  
  
  Q. In your estimation, is he available to pinch hit at all or have you not even thought about it?   
 CHARLIE MANUEL: I don't know yet, but at the same time, he told me that -- he said, when he came in to talk to me, he told me, Actually, I haven't even picked up a bat to swing, so...  
  
  Q. Did he take BP yesterday?   
 CHARLIE MANUEL: No, he didn't.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT