U.S. OPEN
September 5, 2012
Janko Tipsarevic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. TIPSAREVIC/P. Kohlschreiber
  6‑3, 7‑6, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Can you talk about the match?
JANKO TIPSAREVIC:   It was a very long day yesterday.   I think I was one of the first guys to come on site to warm up and everything.   It was just a two‑day match, and I'm extremely happy that I managed to go through in straight sets.
I played well, but I'm extremely happy how I managed to play good on key and important moments in all three sets.   I think this was the main difference.   All three sets were, even though the score doesn't show it, really, really tight.
But in important moments I guess because of the confidence I have and the way that I have being playing in the last couple months showed that I make the right decisions in the right moments of the match.

Q.   Particularly here, you've play well here.   Last two years two quarterfinals in a row.   Is there something about playing at the US Open that brings out your best tennis?
JANKO TIPSAREVIC:   I cannot think of anything else apart from the surface.   I used to hate playing in the US Open when I was a kid, when I was a junior.   I don't know why. 
But in recent years I have been playing my best tennis here.   It's become my favorite Grand Slam in terms of performance.
I really don't have an actual explanation why I play good here.

Q.   Talk about the next match.   It's been a while since you've played. 
JANKO TIPSAREVIC:   It's getting tougher in another round.   It's going to be a very difficult battle.   David is an established top 5 player, probably way more underestimated and people are not giving him enough credit for the achievements he has made in his career.
It's going to be a really, really difficult battle, because both of us are groundstroke players.   We play well from the back.   We don't have huge, huge weapons, so I think a guy who is tactically better and mentally stronger is going to be the winner tomorrow.   I expect a very difficult match.

Q.   I have heard him described as a brick wall. 
JANKO TIPSAREVIC:   He is definitely a bulldog, I will tell you that.   He runs down balls which maybe only Rafa can make from all the guys on tour.
One of his biggest strengths is that he doesn't get affected about the things that are going on on court.   He just has his game plan, his game style, and he's ready to run and do anything to win physically‑wise. 
I have heard commentators on TV describing him as one of the guys who is able to put his body through so much during the match in terms of suffering and pain and doing whatever it takes to win, and that's I guess one of his biggest strengths.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT